TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 199 Black Currant Jam. Give 1 pint watei' to each cpiart of fruit, and 2 lbs. sugar to each quart of water, also 2 lbs. sugar to each quart of fruit. Boil 25 min- utes. ' - Black Currant or Gooseberry Jam. Weight for weight of sugar and fruit, and to every 6 lb. of fnnt add ^ pint red currant juioe. Boil from 10 to 15 minutes. Black Currant and Strawberry Jam. 4 lbs. Strawberries, 2 lbs. Black Currants, 6 lbs. Sugar. Pick fruit, add sugar, boil 20 minutes. Bramble and Apple Jelly. 4 lb. of Brambles, .2 lb. of Apples. Cover them with water, and boil slowly for 1^ hours; strain through a jelly bag, and to every lb. of juice add a pound of loaf sugar. Boil for 10 minutes. Bramble Jelly (1). Put berries in a jar in pan of boiling water; let them steam at ■ side of fire for 6 hours; then strain thi’ough a cheesecloth. Allow 1 lb. sugar to ^ pint juice, and boil-10 or 12 minutes. Bramble Jelly (2). Put a few sliced apples among the berries in the pan, and cover with cold water; boil slowly for ^ hour. Strain through a jelly-bag, and to every large breakfastcupful of juice add 1 lb. of sugar. Boil for 3 minutes. Cherry Jam. 4 lb. Cherries, do. Sugar, Water. Stone the cherries, saving all the juice, then weigh it, and take equal weight of sugar, and 3 teacupfuls of water. Put the sugar and water in jelly pan, and boil for 10 minutes, then add the cherries and boil for I hour. It should just be beginning to jelly on the spoon, as it gets thickej- afterwards. Green Gooseberry Jelly. To i pints gooseberries give 3 pints water (always 1 pint less water than gooseberries); boil to a mash, then strain through cheesecloth. Take 1 lb. sugar to every pint of juice, but keep out a little sugar to throw in about 7 minutes before taking it off; this improves the colour wonderfully. Boil J hour, then flavour with essence of lemofi. Marmalade. 30 Seville Oranges, Sugar, 2 Lemons. Cut oranges and lemons right through, peel and all, into thin shces, removing seeds. Cut with a knife and fork the rind of the slices just roughly to make chips, and weigh fruit thus out, and to every»lb. add 3 pints cold water. Put in earthenware vessel, and let' stand for 24 hours. Then boil till rind is just tender and a chip will crush between your fingers. Let stand till next day. Then weigh, and to every pint put 1' lb. lump sugar, and boil slowly till rind is transparent and syrap jellies. From this strain some for marmalade jelly. This is delicious, and has further advantage of making marma- lade thicker. The great thing is slow boiling, otherwise you waste half. Close range best. Quite an hour to boil when sugar is boiled