7 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. let them get hard. Add a little of the stock, and simmer 40 minutes. Add blood, and stir one way till it boils. Add to stock which you have ready boiling, thicken with flour, or a teacupful ground rice, and season with salt and a little cayenne. Hare Soup (Vegetarian). Celery, Turuip, Carrot, Onion, German Lentils, 1 lb. of each, 2 oz. Butter, Jamaica Pepper and Salt to taste, 3 quarts Water. Soak lentils for 24 hours. Cut down turnip, carrot, and onions, and put into a. pot with the butter. Toss and stir alx>ut in the pot over a brisk fire for about' 15 minutes, but do not permit vegetables to brown. When boiling, put in lentils drained from the water in which they were soaked. Boil soup slowly for 3 hours, then put through a hair sieve, rinse out pot, put soup back again into it, add i teaspoonful Jamaica pejiper' broken in a littl© water; also salt to taste. Serve in liot tureen, with forcemeat balls or sippets of toast. Haricot Bean Soup. 1 lb. Beaus, 2 Onions (Spanish), 1 Turnip, Celery, 2 oz. Dripping,! pint Milk, Pepper and Salt, 2 quarts Water, a little Mace, Parsley, Tomatoes. Soak beaus 24 houi's, drain. Boil gently in 2 quarts of water, with mace, vegetables cut small, pepi^er and dripping, for 3 hours. Rub through wire sieve with wooden spoon. Add milk, salt, and a little minced i^arsley, and bring nearly to the boil again. Serve hot. Salt hardens the beans, therefore this must be added last. A half tin of tomatoes boiled with them the last i hour is a great improvement. In this case, the milk is not required. Hotch Potch. 3 lbs. Neck of Mutton or Lamb, 6 young Turnips, 6 young Carrots, 6 young Onions, 2i quarts Water, 1 Lettuce, 1 Cauliflower, 2 pints Green Peas, 1 handful Parsley, Salt. Put rather more than half of meat in pot when w'ater is hot. Add salt, and when water boils skim carefully. Boil 1 hour, then add remainder of meat cut in small chops, also turnips and carrots cut in dice, also onions cut small, and half the peas. Boil ^ hour longer. Cho'p up lettuce, divide cauliflow'er in sprigs, chop parsley, and add to soup with rest of peas. Boil another ^ hour. Season. Dish up mutton on ashet with chops round, keep hot, and sen^e Hotch Poten in tureen. Hough Soup. 2 lbs. Hough, (Shin of Beef), 4 pints Water, 2 Onions, Salt and Pepper. Take marrow from bone, and place in pot. When hot, put in meat out small, and simmer 5 minutes, stiiTing occasionally. Add water and onions cut small, and boil 3 hours. (This same recipe with- out the onions and a knap bone added makes good potted meat.) Italian Soup. i lb. each of Turnips, Carrots, Onions, I lb. Macaroni, 1 small Beetroot, 1 oz. Parsley, 2 oz. Butter, 2 quarts Water, 1 pint Milk. Slice vegetables (except the beetroot), boil them in the water; break the macaroni small and boil it'in the milk, ttflien the veg^ tables and macaroni are cooked, mix them, add parsley and beetixx>t previously boiled and cut small, butter and seasoning. Heat thor- oughly, and serve.