TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 145 about. Make a tliin custard of 2 yolks and 1 white, and the milk, sweetened and flavoured \ pour it over cakes, and set aside to soak. Whip the rest of the whites of eggs with a pinch of tartaric acid, and essence of lemon to taste. Spread this over the custard and cakes, and sprinkle pink castor sugar (keeping the whites higher in centre). Place ratafias or macaroons round edge. Trifle (2). Put a good layer strawberry jam at bottom of crystal dish. Squeeze a little lemon juice over, which gives a freshness to straw- berries. Sprinkle some ground almonds over, then some sponge- cakes, sliced and pierced with sharp-pointed knife. Pour over 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls milk, then ^ pint boiled custard, after letting milk settle, then ^ pint whipped cream, flavoured same as custard. Vanilla Cream. Soak a 6d packet gelatine in half a teacup milk for \ hour. Set in a pan of warm water till it melts, then switch the breakfast creain till stiff. Then let gelatine cool, but so as it will run from the cup to the cream. Sweeten witli 1 oz. sugar and a few drops vanilla. Set in wetted mould for 12 hours. Plunge mould for a moment in hot water, and turn out on a glass disli and garnish with angelica and dried cherries. Velvet Cream. Make custard with 2 eggs and 2 teacups milk. Soak J oz. gelatine in a little milk, and add with a teacupful cream when custard begins to cool. Pour into wmtted mould. Vol-au-Vent. 1 lb. Puff Pastry, 3 tablespoons castor Sugar, 4 pint thick Cream, 1 pint Straw- berries or any Fruit in season, 2 tablespoons Water, A teaspoon Vanilla. Roll out pastiy J in. thick, cut with large oval cutter, 8 inches by 5 inches, place on the centre a cutter 1 in. smaller and cut half ■way through as for patties. Pin round a piece of oiled paper about 6 inches deep, to keep it in shape. Bake in hot oven, from ^ to | hour; about 15 minutes before done brush over a little egg. Wien done, remove centre. Prepare finit as follo'ws; —Boil 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and water together 10 minutes, put in fniit, and boil till tender. Strain juice, and boil to half the quantity. Put fruit into pastry can, pour over juice, whip cream till stiff, add the remaining tablespoonful sugar and A^anilla, and, if liked, a few drops cochineal. Pile on top of fruit, and serve. A Christmas Dish for the Bairns. Prepare some of the packet jellies, then take as many oranges as required, and make them into baskets by taking two pieces off the top, leaving a strip across for a handle. Remove the inside, which can be quartered and placed on a glass dish. Fill the baskets with the pre- pared jelly, place in a nice dish, and ornament with holly or green leaves,