156 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Bachelor’s Buttons. Rub 4 oz. butter into 10 oz. flour; 2 oz. of sugar; beat 2 eggs; add to the mixture. Break off pieces size of a nut, sprinkle sugar over, and bake on buttered paper a light brown. Banbury Cakes. i lb. Puff Pastry, 2 oz. Sugar, 2 oz. of mixed Peel, 1 oz. of Biscuit Crumbs, 4 oz. Currants, a dust of Allspice, 1 oz. Butter, i an Egg. Roll the pastry out to | inch thick; stamp out into rounds, 6 ins. in diameter. Beat butter and sugar to a cream ; add crumbs, eggs, minced peel, spice, and currants; put a little on each round of pastry. Wet the edges, fold in half, and seal carefully. Turn over edges down- ward, and press out a little. Brush over with water, dust with sugar, and bake 10 to 15 minutes. Buns. 1 lb. Flour, 6 oz. Butter, 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder, J lb Sugar, 1 Egg, nearly i pint Milk, and a few drops Essence of Lemon. Will make 24 buns. Cherry Cakes. For Pastry.—3 oz. Flour, 1 oz. Plasmon, 2 oz. Butter, Salt, Yolk of Egg, and water. For Mixture.—2 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Sugar, 1 oz. Dried Cherries, 1 oz. Peel, 1 oz. Cake Crumbs, i oz. Corn Flour, 1 Egg. Cream butter, and sugar, and add other dry ingredients and eggs gradually till like thick cream. Make the pastry by rubbing butter into the flour and adding Plasmon, mixing with egg and water till a thick paste. Roll out and cut in rounds. Put pastry into greased tins and add teaspoonful of mixture. Bake in a hot oven 15 minutes. Cheese Cakes. Heat 1 pint milk on fire and make a curd by putting a few drops of rennet to it. Press the whey from the curd. Mix 3 eggs with the curd, 3 ratafia biscuits, 4 tablespoonfuls cream, 2 oz. sugar, and a few drops lemon. Press the curd in a napkin to absorb the moisture. Pound the above mixture in bowl with wooden spoon. Line 6 patty pans with puff paste, fill up with the cheese custard and place a couple of stripes of candied peel on top of eacli. Chocolate Buns. i lb. Sifted Sugar, 1 oz. Chocolate (or 2 teaspoonfuls Cocoa), w'hite of 1 Egg beateu stiff', i teacupful grated Cocoa-nut. Mix into thick i^aste; roll out on sugared boarn; cut with a tin star. Place on writing paper. Bake in cool oven. Chocolate Fing-ers. 3 oz. Butter, 3 oz. Sugar, 1 oz. Cocoa Essence, 6 oz. Flour, 3 oz. Castor Sugar’, 1 teaspoon Vanilla, 2 Eggs, 1 teaspoon Baking Pow’der. Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add flour, eggs, vanilla, and cocoa. Beat a few minutes. Pour into a dripping tin lined with greased paper. Bake slowly ^ hour. Remove from tin, take off paper, and ice with chocolate icing. Small Christmas Cakes. Take equal weight of chopped apples and raisins, brown sugar, candied peel, and curiT'^ts. To 1 lb. of mixture put juice and rind of lemon and ^ teaspoonrul mixed spice. Make into small cakes with flaky pastry, brush over with white of egg, and sprinkle sugar over.