38 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. BEEF, MUTTON, VEAL, &c. In cooking all meat 7tot to he made into soup, whether roasted, stewed, or boiled, subject the outside of the meat to strong heat to shut up all pores and keep in juices, then cook more slowly. A little juice of lemon squeezed over lamb chops before broiling them gives them a delicate and delicious flav- our. When making pies, to prevent crust becoming soaked with the gravy, &c., place pie-funnel in centre and lay a few clean wooden meat skewers {which come from the butcher') across the dish before putting on crust. Never pierce meat while cook- ing, or the juices will escape. Veal must not be laid on a plate, but hung in an airy place till cooked. To make meat more tender, cover it with cold water for 20 minutes before cooking, or 30 if a large piece. Will greatly improve quality of meat. If you have no meat safe, and are troubled with flies, wrap your meat in a cloth wrung out of vinegar and water, as soon as it comes from the butcher, wetting it again aS it gets dry. If Meat or Fish is a little doubtful, from intense beat or too long keeping, a simple and pure mode of making them sound and healthful is by putting 3 or 4 pieces of charcoal in the saucepan wherein they are to loe boiled. on. Dip meat into Condy water (a joale pink). If at all tainted, it will turn yellowish. Place in fresh Condy water, and repeat until water keeps its pink colour. Tlien wash in clean cold water. Meat will be quite sweet and Avholesome. Beef and Haricot of Vegetables. 2 lb. Beef, i lb. fat Bacon, 4 Onions, 3 Carrots, 2 pints Stock, 1 tablespoon- ful Flour, 1 teaspoonful Browning, 3 teaspoonfuls Ketchup, 2 teaspoon- fuls Vinegar, 1 oz. Dripping, 4 Turnips, Parsley, Herbs, Salt, Pepper. Melt dripping in pan. Sprinkle beef (let it be lean, and about 1^ inches thick) with pepper and salt on both sides ; broAvn it on both sides in fat, adding the-bacon. (Ttum the meat with two spoons, not with fork.) 'When done, place it o^n a plate, and pour out fat. For sauce, mix the flour, stock, browning,- ketchup, vinegar, 1 teaspoonful dried herbs, salt, &c. Put all into a stewpan with caiTots, onions, tuiTiips (sliced). Add parsley and 2 bay leaves, and, stew one hour. Beef Olives. J lb. Stewing Beef, 1 small Onion, \ tahlcspoonful Flour, 1 teacupful Water, a littlo Milk, 3 tableepoonfuls Bread Crumbs, 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley, a little Thyme, a little chopped Suet, Pepper and Salt. Have beef sliced thinly, and cut in strips about 1^ inches wide and 3 inches long. ,Mix the suet, bread cnimbs, parsley, and season- ing with just enough milk to make it stick together. Place a little stuffing on each strip, roll up and tie. Brown rolls in hot dripping, and place on plate. Fiy the sliced onion, and mix the flour and water together. Pour into pan, and stir till it boils, then season. Put meat, rolls in again, and let all simmer for IJ hours.