TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 10 Lentil, Pea, Barley, and Rice Soup. 1 teacup each of Lentils, Split Peas, Barley, and Rice. 4 quarts stock or water, and 1 oz. of dripping, a carrot and turnip, grated, and 1 Spanish onion, minced finely. Boil 3 hours. Lentil and Rice Soup (very nourishing:). 2 teacup of Lentils, J teacup Bice, 2 quarts Water, 2 Onions, chopped fine, 1 Carrot grated, 2 tablespoonfuls minced Parsley, Salt and Pepper. Soak lentils 24 hours, after washing them well. Boil lentils, add vegetables and rice, and boil all 1^ hours. Add salt and pepper. A little mutton boiled in it, or stock added, is an improvement. Liver Soup. To 3 lbs. ox-liver add 2 quarts water. Cut the liver in slices and brown with an onion. Then add the cold water, bring to the boil, and simmer slowly for G hours. Strain., put back to pot, thicken with a little flour, season with pepper and salt, and boil for 1 hour. No one will know it from ox-tail soup. Soup Maigrre. 3 Leebe, 4 Potatoes, 1 oz. Butter, 2 pints Water, 1 pint Milk, J teaspoonful Salt, i teaspoonful white Pepper, 1 tablespoonful Sago or Tapioca. . Prepare vegetables, and let them lie in water for 1 hour. Cut into small pieces, using only the white of the leeks. Put into a clean saucepan; add the water, butter, and salt. Bring to the boil without the lid on, stir and skim. Tlien boil quickly with the lid on, till the vegetables are soft enough to go through a wire sieve. Return to the pan with the milk, and stir in very gradually the tapioca, and continue stirring till the tapioca is cooked. Boil quickly for 10 minutes. 4 little cream may be added before serving, or an egg beaten up in the tureen. Throw in a table.spoonful of nicely chopped parsley. Stir it until it is well mixed, but do not allow it to boil. Macaroni Soup. 4 ozs. Macaroni, 1 quart new Milk, 1 quart Water, 1 large Onion, and 1 oz. of the crumbs of stale Bread. Soak macaroni 2 hours; put. it into the milk and water, when boiling; add the bread, onion, and salt, and boil all slowly till quite soft; rub it through a. sieve, reversed; return to the pan, adding more seasoning, and either J pint of cream or ounce of butter; boil a few minutes, and serve with toasted bread. Milk Soup. 1^ pint Stock, made from Bovril (^- teacup to 1 pint boiling Water); IJ lb. Potatoes, 2 Onions, 1 Carrot, 1 Bay Leaf, a little Celery when in season, i pint Milk, Salt and Pepper. Clean vegetables, and cut up potatoes and celery to small pieces Leave carrot in large pieces—only wanted to flavour—then remove Bring stock to boil; add vegetables and seasoning, and simmer gently till vegetables are tender—about 1 hour. Remove carrot and bay leaf (the latter would discolour soup, which is wanted white). Pass through sieve, and leturn to pan. Add milk; bring to boil, and serve with red bread ciaimbs and chopped parsley on top.