TktED PAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 8S t ' 1 ■ Sauce for* Veal Cutlets. Melt ivncl brown piece of butter size of hen’s egg, add 1 tablespoon- ful flour. Cook 2 minutes. Add I tablespoonful ketchup, 1 tea- spoonful Harvey’s sauce, 1 pint stock, a teaspoonhd lemon juice, salt, and pepper. Boil, skim, and strain round cutlets. Sauce for Cold Meat. 4 tablespoonfuls grated horse radish, a little made mustard, pepper, salt, and sugar, and just enough vinegar to make it like cream. Pork Forcemeat. 2 lbs. Onions, 1 tablespoonful Crushed Sago, J lb. Bread Crumto, Salt and Pepper. Cut the onions in quarters, drop into slightly salted boiling water. Parboil 15 minutes, drain, chop uji, add sage, salt and pepper. Use for stuffing pork, ducks, geese, etc. Forcemeat (No. 1). i lb. chopped Ijcan Ham, a little Suet, Bread Crumbs, 3 hard-boiled Eggs, chopp^ fine, teaspoonful Minced Parsley, i teaspoonful Mushroom Powder, and a little Ketchup and Vinegar, if liked. Bind all together with 1 egg. Forcemeat (No. 2). 6 oz. bread crumbs 4 oz. suet, a teaspoonful each of chopped pars- ley and mixed herbs, chopped lemon rind, 2 oz. lean bacon, salt, cay- enne, and mace, 1 egg, and a little milk. Forcemeat (uncommon) for Pair of Fowls or one Turkey. Boil ^ pint chestnuts till quite soft, peel, and pound them up to fine powder, then mix with J lb. sausage meat. Stu-ffingr for Boiled Turkey. , lb. suet, 2 oz. lean, raw Wiltshire bacon, chopped. Add ^ lb. bread crumbs, half contents small tin button mushrooms, teaspoonful mixed sweet herbs, if liked, 2 whole eggs, and seasoning of pepper and salt. Also suitable for roast veal, but, as veal is rather insipid, | lb. bacon. Mushroom Stulfingr for Roasted Turkey. ^ lb. fresh mushrooms (forced can always be had), peel, trim, and drop into cold water. Put in enamelled pan with just the water that clings to them when lifted out. Add 1 oz. butter, squeeze lemon juice, small onion chopped finely, and 1 oz. chopped Wiltshire bacon. Stew, or rather steam, very gently till tender. Strain them out of the licjuor, chop finely, and add them to J lb, fine bread crumbs. Pound ]n 2 yolks of eggs, and as much of the mushroom liquor as the mixture ■will stand without being too wet. Season nicely with cayenne^ salt and pepper. j > > Superfine Stuffing: for anything served cold, as galantine, chartreuse, or game pie, hot for quails and other small bird::, J lb calf’s liver cut small, | lb. streaky bacon, also Uiop a slice of onion, then fry bacon a little. Add onion ute, and then fry liver till cooked. Add teaspoonful of’ mixture, salt, ^d a gcfod pinch cayenne. This must now to cool, then it is chopped, pounded, and passed through to be &o. Also cut small, fry a min- herbaceous be allowed wire sieve.