1.33 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. CREAMS, JELLIES, and SWEETS. Add a -pinch of cream of tartar to the half-beaten whites of eggs and then continue beating. The zvhites will never fall down before being used. Grease the upper inside edge of the pan in which chocolate is being made and it ivill not boil over. White silk makes the ver-y best forcing bag. Almond-Crusted Apples and Pears. Pare and core the fruit and fill with any kind of jam ; place cn buttered tin, and brush well with beaten white of egg. Cover with mixture, composed of equal weight of ground almonds, sponge-cake crumbs, and castor sugar. Bake in pretty hot oven. Should be ready in about 20 minutes. Ambrosia. Oranges, Cream, Sugar, clesaicatecl Cocoanut. Peel very thin 2 oranges, and put peel in a saucepan with 1 gill water and 4 oz. lump sugar, and boil gently. Remove all white from oranges, and cut them into thin slices, removing pips. Beat ^ pint cream to a stiff froth. Arrange on glass dish alternate layers of orange and ciocoa-nut. Strain orange water, and pour over both ; then the cream, sprinkled with pink sugar, at top. Apple-and-Blackberry Souffle. Stew some apples and blackberries, together with a little sugar, till soft; then press them through a hair sieve. Put the pulp in a pie-dish, and when cool, beat the whites of 2 eggs to a very stiff' froth ; mix in quickly not quite ^ lb. castor sugar. Cover over the pulp with this, and bake in a slow oven till the m6ringue is crisp and just col- oured. Sprinkle pink sugar on the top, and serve either hot or cold. Apple Cheese. 6 lb. Apples, 6 lb.‘Sugar, juice of J Lemon, and grated rind of whole. Cut up apples without paring; put in jelly pan. Almost cover with water and boil thoroughly into a pulp, stirring frequently, as it is apt to burn. Rub through a sieve; then boil for almost 1 hour with sugar, pound for pound. Flavour with ginger or any other flavouring. Apple Shape. 1 lb. Apples, 1 Lemon, 3 oz. lump Sugar, 1 oz. Gelatine, ^ teaspoon Cochineal. Peel and core apj)les, cut in small pieces, and put in a stewpan with the sugar and | pint water, the grated rind; and strained juice of lemon. Stew till tender. Dissolve the gelatine in J giU cold water ; rub the apple through a sieve, and then stir in the melted gelatine. Pour into a mould, and stand aside till set. J pint of cream, whipped to stiff froth, may be served with this jelly, either put round the edge of the dish, or if a border mould is used, place cream in the centre.