43 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. heart, liver, and kidneys. Cover over with water. Simmer for an hour. If desired, an onion may he added. This Avill make sufficiejit stock for the pie. Place the pieces of rabbit and bacon in a pie-dish, sprinkle the seasoning among theim, and pour oiver all the stock. The dish o<ught to be alAOiiit tlu’ee-fourths full. Cover with a plate, and place in a hot oven to cook for almost an hour. Meanwhile prepare'' the paste. (It is better to cook the rabbit for this time before placing the paste on the top, as the latter cooks peii’ectly in 4 hour, and it hardens if kept loaiger in t ie oven.) llcniove the pie-dish,from the oven, allow it to cool a little, then cover and ornament. Bake for another i hour. This is for U hours altogether. Minced parsley may be sprinkled over paste just before finished baking. Rabbit Pudding. The ingre<lients for this dish are o.xactiv iliC same as for rablht pie, except the paste is nia'le from ]- lb. s\iet, 4 lln flour, and ij tea- spoonful baking powder. The melliod is a little different. Grease a pudding basin and lino with paste. Pill up with rabbit, bacon, season- ing, and stock. Cover cvilh paste, ])ut a. greased paper on the toj), and steam for 2 houis. Minced Rabbit. 1 Rabbit, 1 teaspoon Salt, i teaspoon white Pepper, 1 saltspoon grated Nutmeg, i Lemon, 1 slice Ham, 1 breakfastcup Milk, 1 teasiwon Corn Flour, 1 or 2 Eggs. Boil until tender, carefully remove the flesh from the bones. Mince very finely. Boil the ham for hour, and chop finely. Put the milk in a stewpaii along with the seasoning, the ham, and rabbit, and the eggs, cvell beaten. Stir over a slow fire constantly unlil the mixture is thorougldy heated. Then squeeze in the leinon juice. Turn on a hot dish, and serve with piece of fried bread. Rabbit or Veal Mould. One knuckle of Veal or oine Rabbit, small Onion, blade of Mace, 4 Cloves, 10 Peppercorns, a little grated Nutmeg, tablespoonful Vinegar, a little Lemon Juice, 1 Egg, Pepper and Salt. Cut the veal or rabbit iuto joints, place in a stone jar with suf- ficient water to cover, add the spices tied in muslin, the onion whole, vinegar, lemon, juice, pepper, and salt. Let this cook till the meat is tender. Boil the egg hard, cut it into slices, and decorate a mould with them. Strain the liquor and boil till I’educed one half, add a little dissolved gelatine, pour over the meat, Avhich must be covered by it, and alloAv to stand all night to set. Ttirn out carefully, and serve with parsley or chopped aspic jelly. Roman Pudding (a rich Breakfast Dish). Butter a round tin and sprinkle Avifli bread cnimb.s or vermicelli. Tlien line it Avilli a good paste. Boil some macaroni well, and cut wliat you require into small pieces. Take equal quantities of it and cooked chicken, breast and flesh, mixed with a teaspoouful of chopped parsley and a little chopped onion, 2 oz. of grated cheese (parmesan). Make all moist with white sauce, and put into your paste. Wet the' edges and cover with paste, and bake about an hour in a good oven, so that the paste may be brown underneath. Turn out on a dish, and serve with good broAvn gravy round it.