TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 1-82 GRUEL, &c. A starchy farinaceous food must be cooked just the op-posite of beef tea. It must be thoroughly well boiled, because the starch in arrowroot, &c., is contained in little cells, which must be burst in the cooking. The stomach can do very little with uncooked starchy food. Albumenised Eg*^. Sometimes a i^atient cannot take even a lightly-boiled egg, so doctors try this plan, and any one can take it then. Break raw egg into basin of cold water and let it soak there 12 hours. Strain off water very carefully, and poach egg in boiling water with a little salt. It will taste very brittle and melt-in the mouth, because the egg is separated by the action of the water into little pieces.’ When it has been soaked, the egg will look much smaller and be white and opaque- looking. You must pour water off very gently, or you will pour all" away. Apple Water. Take*^^'® ^ lemon, keeping it yellow rather than touch the white, slice tl" juice. Pare 4 or 5 good-sized apples, and Cover wq " ^ pour over all 1 pint boiling water cold. A little clean towel, and set a -weight on top, and let it stand till Cic-ani of tartar may be added, if allowed. 2 heaped teaspoonf;islti^Tj?o'?r*nPr..,^Jelly. ^\blespoonful Sugar, 1 cup Boiling ^ Boil lictie COM water add add to the boiling watei flnv ; nsparent, and pour into cups. For summer complaints ^ cinnamon in it. For fever patients, ad( juice ot ^ ot a lemon. Artificial Asses’ Milk. Take 4 sheep’s trotters and simmer 20 minutes in a pint of mill until reduced to ^ pint; then add | oz. refined sugar and a pint o: iiesh and good cow’s milk. Excellent in wasting diseases. Artificial Goat’s Milk. Chop 1 oz. of suet very fine, tie loosely in a muslin bag, and boil slowly in a quart of new milk for hour. Sweeten with white sugar or any nice syrup that is palatable. "Very good in wasting diseases' and a good substitute for cod-liver oil in many cases. Baked Flour. Take 1 lb. of pure wheaten flour, tie up very tightly in a puddinc^- cJoth, place in a saucepan of boiling water, and "allow to boil constant- ly tor 4 hours. On removing the cloth at the end of this period a yellowish-white ball is seen. When this is cold, the softer outer coat- ing is^ cut away, and the hard nucleus which is left is reduced to pow- der with a fine grater. Grate as required, allowing 1 tablespoonful wet in cold^milk to 1 pmt boiling milk. ^ Boil till smooth, add a little salt. Excellent for summer complaints either in adults or children. The beaten white of