17 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. FISH. Clean fish at tap in running water. Rub black fart cf bone with salt, and scrape with knife, scale with back of kriife. Wash in salt and water. Skin whitings and haddocks from the head to tail, otherxvise the flesh woidd come off in, flakes. Flat fish, except plaice, are skinned from tail to head. In plaice the skin adheres so firmly, it has to be peeled off with a knife. Never cut the thick glutinous fins of turbot, brill, or skate, they are thought a great delicacy. In boiling fish, alwciys keep a fin on fish, to know if fish is ready, or put skewer in near tne bone; if cooked, ivill be quite soft. A spoonful of vinegar added to the water in which fish is boiling will make the fish firm and tender. Rut a pinch of bi-carbonate of soda, in the water when boiling salmon. This makes it a beautiful red colour. Lay d red herring in hot ivater a few minutes before cooking. Salt fish are quickly freshened by soaking in sour milk. If you require to use an ordinary pan for cooking fish, scour after use with soda ivater, put a small piece of butter on dish-cloth and rub all round the pan, and all taint of _ psh will disappear'. Or, after frying onions or fish put a little vinegar in pan—ivill quickly remove odour. Season bread crumbs ivith salt and pepper, and a little chopped parsley if liked, before using for fillets of fish. Anything fried in boil- ing fat is puffed up and made very light by lifting it three or four times out of fat during the process. This lets in the air, and makes a great difference. In boiling fish, salt the water in the proportion of a tablespoonful to each gallon of water. Lemon juice is always an improvement to white fish. Never touch any rnixture with curry powder with wooden spoon. Three ways of frying Fish. First Wat.—Fillet fisli; wasli and dry. Egg and bread-cnimb, Fiy in boiling fat. Second Wat.—Dqi first in milk, then in flour. Fat must bo even hotter for this than when egged and bread-cnimbed. Third Wat.—Make a batter of flour, milk, a little salt, and tiny pinch of baking powder—about the consistency of thick cream. Dip fillets in batter, and fry, without wire basket, as then they are apt to stick, which takes off batter. (Norwegian) Fish Balls. i lb. Haddock, Pepper and Salt, i teacupful of Cream, grated Nutmeg. Scrape from the bone and pound in mortar till fine. Boil the bones and keep extract; season with pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg; add a small piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Boil cream and let it cool, then pour it among fish and flavouring. Make into balls and cook in extract or boiling fat. Serve with white sauce, coloured pink.