TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 38 Chicken Cutlets. Mince and pound avcII about half of a cold chicken and a few mushrooms ; add a little grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the Avhite of an egg. Have 6 or 8 mutton cutlets ready, and dip them first in egg, then spread the mince over both sides. Egg again, and hread- crunih, then fry in Imiling lard till a. nice brown. Serve hot, and garnish with parsle\' and mushrooms. • Curried Chicken, Veal, or Rabbit. 1 Cliicken, 2 tablespoonfuls Cocoanut, 1 tablespoonful Lemon Juice, 1 Onion, teaspoonful Sugar, 2<oz. Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls Curry Powder, ^ pint Gravy or Stock, 1 teaspoonful Salt. Joint chicken neatly, and fry a light brown in the butter. Remove from pan and fry the onion, sliced, add all other ingredients except lemon juice. Put back chicken and simmer ^ hour. A fowl or rabbit will take l ^- hours. Add lemon juice, and serve with a dish of rice. Fried Chicken. Dip slices of cold chicken in egg and breadcrumbs and fry in boiling fat. Dish w'ith a few mushrooins in centre, or some stewed tomatoes.. Chicken Merinds. Take the legs and wing.s of a roast chicken and dip in batter made as follows:—3 spocaifuls of Hour, 1 tablespoonful baking-2:)owder, wet with sweet milk to the thickness of a thick cream. Switch yolk and white of an egg separately. Take a few leaves of pai’sley chopped, pepper, and salt. Add to the batter, and fry in a pan of boiling lard. Sei’ve wdth fried parsley, and garnish with tomatoes. Minced Chicken and Egfg-s. Remains of cold Fowl and stuffing, 1 Onion cut fine, 1 teacup Milk, 1 table- spoon Flour, Parsley, Pepper, Salt, Bread Crumbs, Eggs to cover top of disb. Cut the meat into neat squares; stew bones, skin, &c., -with ''ejijmgh water to eover them, for 1 hour or more. Strain, let'it stand for fat to rise, skim, and return to pan. 'When nearly boiling, add thickened milk and seasoning. As soon as it thickens, put in the chicken; let it get hot, but not to boil. Rutter deep j^ie-dish. Cover bottom with st\iffiiig crumbled up, wet with a-little gravy, and pour in mince. Strew bread crumbs over, and lay the eggs, broken in separate cups, carefully over tlie surface. Strew very fine crumbs over these, put some butter, pepper, and salt on each egg, and bake in quick oven till top begins to bubble and smoke. The whites of eggs should be ■well set, and yolks soft. Veal ill, same way, a little ham added. Roa.st Chicken or Fowl. Singe, and truss by cutting the legs off at first joint. Make an incision in the wings, and put tlie gizzard under the left ■v\dng and the liver under the right. Make stuffing of 3 ozs. bread crumbs, 2 ozs. suet, a few leaves jiarsley (chopped), 2ie'pper and salt, and 1 egg. Draw up the legs under the wings and stuff chicken in breast. Dredge flour over, or place a buttered paper over fowl, and baste frequently. Time to roast, 1 hour. .Serve with good brown gi-avy and brea.d sauce.