228 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Launciry Hints. On. Ironing Day, try standing on a soft thick rug, and note if it will not prevent the feet becoming so tired as they would otherwise be. The irons must be perfectly clean. Have a little brick dust or sand on a piece of stout brown paper in a box to rub them on, being particular that points and sides of iron are clean. Iron first on the wrong side, then on the right. A thickly-folded blanket, and sheet over, should be used, pinned tightly down at comers of table. Collect all odd ends of candles and place them between an old duster. Clean the iron on it before using, and you will find the iron go over the things as smoothly as you could possibly wish. Tliis is especially useful for starched articles. Clean msty irons with soft soap and bathbrick. If irons are to be put away for some time rub over with tallow or mutton fat to keep out the moisture, and wrap in newspaper which has been toasted in the oven. An iron-holder should be round in shape, and the inter-lining should be of leather. Old gloves or pieces of wash-leather should be saved for this purpose. Tlie tops of worn-out boots or shoes make excellent iron-holders. Always, if possible, iron coarse articles, such as towels, before the starched things; as no matter how clean they are kept, the irons will work better after being used a short time. Never let irons get red-hot, or hang about on range. Spoils temper, and they will never afterwards retain heat so well. When starching any article finished with a fringe gather the fringe tightly in the hand, and dip the material only in the starch When dry shake thoroughly, and either beat the fringe on the edge of a table, or brush with a nail brush. Clothes-pegs and clothes-lines, if boiled for a few minutes and dried quickly once a month, will last much longer. Always boil new lines 10 minutes before using. Care of the Wringer.—Do not fail 'to oil the wringer pretty fre>:- quently. If oiled often there is less wear on the machinery and less strength is expended by the operator. To clean the rollers rub them first with a cloth saturated with kerosene oil, and follow with soap and water. Loosen the rollers before putting the wringer away. Do not wring out of water above ordinary washing temperature. Wear rollers equally by wringing large articles in centre and small articles at each side. Fold buttons inside. To prevent the blue in clothes from looking patchy it is a wise plan to make a quart or two of water a good deep lalue. and from that pour into the blueing-tub until one has the required tint. Hands that have been in hot soda water and become shrunken and soft, will become smooth and natural again if rubbed with ordinary kitchen salt. A good clothes pin bag is made out of a rough towel. Turn up enough to make a bag, stitch each side into position, run tape across top, tie it round waist like apron, and you have always pins beside you. Wear large apron of white oil-cloth while washing—saves wetting and soiling dress. Always wear a shawl round shoulders when going to hang out clothes.