208 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. CONFECTIONS. For all Sweet-making operations a plat slab or marble is better than a dish, and a very little butter will be needed to rub on. Use Cox's gelatine for sweet dishes. Salted Almonds. Take a small pan and enough butter to make it 1 inch deep when melted. Get it to boiling heat (try it by putting a piece of bread in to brown). After blanching the almonds throw them all'in at once, so that they all brown alike. Mix some salt and a little cayenne to- gether on a paper. Take out the almonds and roll them in it, shak- ing Ihem well till nearly cold Barley Sug-ar. 1 lb. Loaf Sugar broken email, ^ pint Water, and White of an Egg, flavouring •f Lomon or Vanilla. Put sugar and water into pan. When dissolved put over moder- ate fire, and when just beginning to wann add beaten white of egg. Stir well, and when boiling remove scum, and boil till perfectly clear. Strain through muslin>, and boil up again when done ; a little dropped into cold water should be very brittle and snap easily. Pour on the slab and cut into strips. Dip the hands in cold water and roll and twist the sticks, and, when cold, may dust a little sifted sugar over. Black Currant Lozengfes. Put the currants into a jar in the oven. When soft, pulp them through a hair sieve. To 3 lbs. pulp add 1 lb. of castor sugar. Boil J hour, take the pan off the fire, and stir in the sugar very briskly. It may be boiled a little after the sugar has been added. Then pour it into plates about J inch thick, put it into the sun or a cool oven to dry. Then turn it, and when quite dry cut it into lozenges. A small quantity of isinglass will make it set better. Caramel Walnuts. i lb. Walnuts, 2 oz. Ground Almonds, i lb. Icing Sugar, 1 White of Egg, i lb. Sugar, i teacupful Water, ^ teaspoonful Cream of Tartar. Break the walnuts and remove the inner husks. Put sugar and ground almonds into a bowl, then the stiffly beaten white of eggthe mixture must be barely moistened. If in the least soft, add more sugar, take up a piece of mixture and work it into a round ball, put ^ a walnut on one side and ^ on other. Boll it round and set aside for a day to get hard. Next day put common sugar, water, and cream of tartar into a small saucepan. Let it boil until it thickens lilce toffee. Dip the walnuts one by one into this, then put them on a buttered plate till cold. If difficult to remove, heat the plate. Cinnamon Drops. Mix ^ oz. powdered cinnamon, or ^ teaspoonful oil of cinnamon, with 1 lb. pounded sugar and | pint water. Boil the syrup^ till it snaps when put in cold water in about ^ hour. Then spread it on large flat dish, well oiled, and score, before it hardens, into small squares, or drop it evenly on paper.