TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 227 To Remove Mildew. Moisten soft soap and starch with the juice of a leipon. Spread this paste over mildew, lay out and bleach, afterwards wash. If it fails the first time, repeat, or boil \ hour in butter-milk. For Scorched Linen. It is said that when linens are badly scorched the spot can be removed if treated in the following manner : Extract the juice from two peeled onions, and add half an ounce'of white castile soap, cut in small pieces, and two ounces of fuller’s earth. Mix them together, and then stir in one cup of vinegar. Stand the vessel over the file, and let its contents thoroughly boil. When the mixture has become cool, spread it over the scorched linen and let it dry upon the cloth. When well dried wash out the linen. A SIMPLER METHOD. If a short bosom, or any otlier article, has unfortunately been scorched in ironing, lay iti wliero the bright sunshine will fall straight on it. It will take it entirely out, leaving it clean and white as before. To Remove Iron Mould from Linen. Rub thoroughly the affected part with lemon juice, then expose to the sun until the stain disappears If one application is not suffi- cient, repeat the process until the mould disappears. To Remove Medicine Stains from Sheets. Before washing lay on paste made from fuller’s earth and am- monia. Leave till dry, then directly wash the part in a basin of cold water, when stain will come quite out. Chloride of Lime Bleaching: Liquid Will remove all stains from linen. Pour boiling water on chloride of lime in proportion of 1 gallon to J lb. Bottle it, cork it tightly, and in using the liquid be careful not to stir it. Washing:'Blue. 3d Chinese Blue, Id Oxalic Acid. Put these in a bottle, add boiling water to fill the bottle, and allow to stand all night. Add 3 more bottles of water to this. To Wash Clothes in Paraffin Soap. Cut down ^ lb. paraffin soap and put it into a boiler of water to melt. Rub the clothes well out of the soda water, in which they have been previously soaked, put them into the boiler and let them boil for \ hour, then put them into a tub with plenty of cold water; wash them thoroughly, rinse in blue water, and dry. To Render Children’s Clothes Unin- flammable. To 3 parts of dry starch add 1 part tungstate of soda, and use in ordinary way. If material does not require starching dissolve 1 lb. of the same in 2 gallons water. Well saturate the fabric and dry. Will not injure colour, nor will ironing affect it. 1 oz. of alum added to rinsing water will make clothes- practically uninflammable—would only smoulder very slowly, never burst into flame.