522 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Method of Polishing:. If a high gloss is desired, it is necessary to have a hard surface under the linen. The collars can be placed oh a clean board for the purpose, or on a corner of the ironing table with the blanket removed. Dip the damping rag into clean water, squeeze out tightly, and rub the right side of the linen firmly until ah even dampness is obtained. Then with the heel of a clean hot glossing iron rub lightly at first over the surface of the linen, then heavily until the gloss becomes even. The toe of the iron is sometimes used to -give a finishing touch to parts that the heel has missed around the edge of the collar. Before Airing:. The collars should be turned into shape before airing. Put them on the table wrong side up, pass the iron over them, and turn the collars, one at a time, after the hot iron. Place, them in front of a good fire to air—this adds to the stiffness. NOTE.—All irons used for starched linen must be quite clean and hot. Dirty irons make bad work, and cool irons leave brown marks. Gum Starch. Pound 2 oz. fine white gum arabic to powder, put it in a jug and pour over it 1^ pint boiling water; cover the jug, and let it remain all night j on the following morning pour the liquid carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle, cork it and keep for use. A tablespoonful stirred into a pint of starch made in the usual manner will give a splendid gloss to linen. Soap Jelly. Collect all odd pieces of soap in clean jar. Add yellow soap cut in small bits to make 4 oz. in all. Add 1 quart cold water. Put in oven till quite melted. Wlien cold it will be a thin jelly. Covered up, it will keep any time. Add sufficient to the washing water to make a lather. Laundry Glazing: Secret. Starch in cold starch and iron damp. Next dip piece flannel in some French chalk and rub smoothly on each article, after which a j^iece of white curd soap is rubbed over the chalk. Finally, the articles are ironed on the right side only with a moderately hot iron, and when finished have the appearance of new articles. Woollen Underg:arment Washing:. The only effects of rubbing are to shrink and destroy the material, so use as little friction as possible. All articles should be first shaken, then turned inside out. If coloured, a very little salt or a few drops of vitriol will prevent the dye running. For white flannel add a tahlespoonful ammonia to first water and less to second water. Ammonia fades coloured flannels. Make a strong lather in warm water, and wash the garment In it, drawing it repeatedly through the hand; then in a second