216 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOR. stirring till the porridge does lx>il ensures there being no lumps. Th* consistency of the porridge can be regulate4 according to the taste of the cook by putting in less or more meal. S'ei*ve with sweet, milk. Many people prefer to boil porridge much longer. Even 1^ hours’ gentle boiling only makes meal more digestible Porridge (2). 4 oz. medium Oatmeal, i pint Milk, ^ pint Water. Soak the meal overnight in the water, then cook in a double pan for about 1^ hours in the moraing with the milk. A small piece of butter may be mixed in before serving. Hominy Porridge. i lb. Hominy, 1 pint Milk, 1 oz. Butter. Soak the hominy all night in 1 pint cold water, then cook for li hours in a double pan with the water it was soakcni in, also the milk. Just before serving stir in the butter. Serve with golden syrup Potage Creme d’Orge. Wlien made as directed is a peculiarly nice Soup. Put 2 ozs. of butter into a stewpan with a small piece of onion, choppdd finely; let the butter melt on the stove, add 2 tablespoonfuls of Robinson’s “Patent” Barley mixed into a smooth pa.ste with a littl* cold milk to the consistency of cream. Add a quart of white stock made from chicken or veal. Stir well on the stove until it boils and let it simmer for ^ hour. Then beat up the yoUvs of 3 eggs with ^ pint of cream; add a little of the cold cream to the boiling soup—care- fully stir in the eggs and remainder of the cream, and put it back on the stove. Stir it until it thickens, but do not let it boil or it will curdle. Strain and seiwe with something green in it or shredded celery that has been cooked in stock. Spinach Colouring. 4 lb. Spinach, ^ teaspoonful Salt, i teacupful Water. Wash spinach and pick stall^s off. Put in enamelled pan with water and salt. Cover closely, and boil 10 minutes. Press juice out through hair sieve, and then strain through muslin. This is a simple way to prepare green colour for jellies, and the spinach is quite good for the table. To Dry Herbs. Gather on a dry day, and just before they flower. Ctit off roots and free from dust, and, if neoessaiy, wash them. Put them some distance from the fire or in a slow oven or in the sun till diy and crisp, but not brown. Pull all the leaves off,- and rub them through a coarse sieve, and bottle for use, or tie in bunches by the stems, and hang up till dry; then put in paper bag for use. Mushrooms may be dried slowly in same way and laibbed through sieve. Excellent for adding to soups and stews. To Keep Eggs. Be sure they are fresh. If possible have them rubbed over with butter whenever laid. Place them points down in a stone jar and pour over them the following brine, which is enough for 160 : —1 pint slacked lime, 1 pint salt, 2 oz. cream of taiTar, and 4 gallons water. Boil all together 10 minutes. Skim, and when cold pour over the eggs