TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 54 and pres* round ogg. Kgg and bread-crumb. Fi-y. Arrange in dish with vermicelli hare and thei-e, and garnish with parsley. Scrap Pio, with Oattrieal Crust. I lb. fine oatmeal; mix ^ teaspoonful powdei*ed-down dried herbs, a little pepi^er, salt, and a dessertspoonful flour on a plate. Have meat parboiled, as this crust bakes very quickly. Roll each bit in mixture, then jDlace in pie-dish. This is a nice way of using cold meat. For children, you may place a layer of meat and one of pota- toes, also finely chopped onions if liked. For cnastr-’-Boil J lb. drip- ping with about ^ pint water ; bring to boil; add to meal ^ teaspoon- iiil salt, and a saltspoonful j^eppei’; then pour in dripping. Make erust very quickly, and don’t touch Avith rolling jjin. Paste gets very short, so imist be Avrought exactly tO' size to coA'er dish quickly. Mark round edge, and bake about hour. Shepherd’s Pie. Slice cold meat, and roll each piece in dried herbs, salt, and pepper mixed. Put into pie-dish a layer of cold meat, then sliced onion and potatoes alternately. For crust, take mashed potatoes, beaten up Avith fork, and mixed AAuth a veiy little hoti milk, butter, pepper, and salt. Mix | gill milk and ^ gill water, and lAOur over pie (a little cream .gives a nice freshness to little dishes). Dip a broad knife in milk and smooth OA^er potatoes, and score into dice. Mark the edge Avith a fork, ahvays dipping it in the milk. Put in oven or in front of fire to broAvn. Irish Stew. Time, about H- hours, 21 lb. Chops, 8 Potatoe.s. 4 small Onions, 2 breakfast- cups Water, Pepper ami Salt. Take the chops from' a loin of mutton. Trim off all fat and gristle, cut small, jAlace them in a steAvpan Avith alternate layers of sliced potatoes, and of chops and onions seasoned. Pour in cold Avater, cover the stewpan closely, and let it stcAv gently until the potatoes are ready to mash, and the greater part of the gravy is absorbed. ■NeA'er lift lid, as that will let O'Ut flavour. Steak and Ham Shape. 1 lb. Steak, f lb. Ham, 1 Egg, 1 cupful Bread Crumbs, •! teacupful Water, a little Nutmeg, Pepper and Salt. Mince steak and ham together, add cnnubs and seasoning. Beat up egg and mix Avith Avater. Stir in, until all is used up. Grease a boAvl and put in mixture. Cover Avith buttered paper, and steam for 4 hours. AIIoav it to cool before turning out. Sweetbreads. Lay SAveetbreads in salt and Avater for 2 liours to extract blood. "Wash Avell and put them into l)oiling Avater, and let them boil gently for 10 minutes. Strain. After they are cold, trim and cut into neat rounds about 1 inch thick. Put them in a stewpan Avith 2 oz. butter and ^ teacupful of cream or milk, and simmer gently 1^ hours. More milk may require to be added. May bo rolled in seasoned bread crumbs (after being trimmed) and fried in boiling lard, but not so light a Avay. Put Avire-basket into pan first, so that they Avill not stick to it. Sweetbreads easily get