TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 77 1 tablespoonful vinegar, and stir in; then 1 tablespoonful or oream, A teaspoonful sugar, and the white of egg minced. Cut the lettuce small, and onion also, with the cress and sliced toinato' or beetroot. Pour dressing over tlie lettuce, &c. Summer Salad. 2 Lettuces, Mustard, and Cress, young Eadishes, Cucumber. . Use a silver knife, and cut lettuces, radishes, and cucumber into thin slices. Place saucei at bottom of bowl, then the salad, and o’arnish with sliced egg (boiled hard) and cress. Care must be taken to have vegetables fresh and thoroughly drained. Slices of cold meat or poultry added to a salad make a convenient and quickly • made luncheon dish; or cold fish, flaked, will be found exceedingly nice mixed with it. Tomato Salad. 3 or 4 Tomatoes, 1 Lettuce, i Boiled Egg, i teaspoonful Salt, do. Sugar, 1 teaspoonful finely chopped Spanish Onion, 1 tablespoonful Salad Oil, 1 do. Broavn Vinegar. • n • Put tomatoes in hot water, remove skin, and cut in four. Put m basin with onion, salt, sugar, and sliced egg, along with lettuce well washed, dried, and broken. Pour over these the oil and vinegar. Mix well with two forks, so that vinegar may bo well through salad. Tiun on dish, and serve at once. Winter Salad. Endive, Mustard, and Cress, -boiled Beetroot, Celery, Eggs. Shred the celery into thin pieces; an'ange endive, and cress in middle of bowl. Garnish with beetroot (sliced) and eggs (sliced), jiutting the dressing at bottom of bowl. Salad Dressing;. Yolks of 2 newly-laid Eggs, Mustard, Pepper, and Salt, Tarragon Vinegar, a gcod teaspoonful of Castor Sugar, i pint Salad Oil. Beat the eggs well with a little mustard, pepper, and salt; then gradually mix the oil, and, when well mixed, add vinegar and sugar. Salad Dressing; (No. 2). Yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs. AVlien cold, mash with back of spoon. Add pinch of salt and mustard;. then by degrees salad oil till the consistency of thick cream, then vinegar enough to bring to con- sistency wanted. Salad Dressing', with Butter. A large quantity which will keep two weeks. 4 tablespoonfuls Butter, 1 tablespoonful Flour, 1 teaspoonful Salt, 1 do. Sugar, 1 do. Keen's Mustard, a little Cayenne, 1 cup Milk, i cup Vinegar. Melt butter; add flour, then the milk, and boil up. Place pan in another of boiling water. Beat eggs and other ingredients together, stir into the boiling mixture, and stir till it thickens like custard. Salad Dressing' without Oil. Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs into a basin,, add to them one teaspoonful of castor sugar, the same of dry mustard, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt and pepper. Mix well together, then add to it slowly, stiiring all the time, a quarter of a pint of cream. Mix in one tablespoonful of vinegar, and it is ready for use.