57 TRIED FAYOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. VEGETABLES. MEDICAL PROPERTIES OF VEGETABLES. 1. Aspa.l'a.g;'US purifies the blood. 2. Beets and Turnips are excellent appetisers. 3. Celery acts on nervous system, and is a cure for rheumatism and neuralgia. 4. Lettuce and Cucumbers have a cooling effect on the system, and Lettuce is good for sleeplessness. 5. Onions, Garlic, Leeks, Olives Shallots, all possess medicinal virtues of a marked character, stimulating the circulatory system, and ‘giving consequent increase of saliva and gastric juice, promoting digestion. 6. Spinach has a direct effect on the kidneys; and Dandelions, cooked as greens, have the same. 7. Tomatoes act on the liver, and are an almost sovereign remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion. 8. Turnips are also particularly good for chest complaints. 9. Watercress is good for scurvy. 10. Carrots are good for asthma. Gather Vegetables in cool of morning If the sun is on them they are sure to be tough and discoloured. Green Vege- tables ought to be crisp, fresh-coloured, and sweet smelling, and root vegetables firm. Keep in cool dark place. Cover celery and catdiflower from the light with paper. Before wash- ing vegetables, give them a little slap against the palm of the hand, and much of the dirt, sand, and insects will drop off, which would otherwise stick when plunged into the water. Soak cabbage and catdiflower in cold water, with a tablespoonful vinegar added. Better than salt; salt only kills the caterpillars —vinegar also draws them out. The zvater should not boil before wanted, or vegetables will be discoloured. All green vegetables float on the water first, and when cooked fall to the bottom. . To prevent vegetables from smelling the house when boiling, put a little piece of bread in muslin and put in pan. A little vinegar may be kept boiling on the stove while onions or cabbage is being cooked; this also will prevent the disagreeable odour going through the house. The proportion of salt to allow in cooking vegetables is one teaspoonful to every half-gallon of water. Remember that all green vegetables, except spinach, are cooked with the cover of the saucepan off. Vegetables of strong flavour, which include most green vegetables, shoidd be well covered with fast boiling water, and cooked rather rapidly till done, but if at any time the water go off the boil replace the lid till water boils up again, as slow boiling spoils the colour of all green ""egetables. A good rule is that vegetables which grow