TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 213 Butter Scotch. Same way, but wirtb brewn sugar and omitting the water. Flavour with ^ oz. porwdered ginger. Fig- Toffee. 1 cup fine brown sugar and f cup water boiled together till a clear golden colour, but don’t stir it. Just before it is done add \ saltspoon- ful cream of tartar. Stir in, and take from fire. Have figs washed, dried, and split in strips. Arrange on buttered dish, pour toffee over, and mark in squares Russian Toffee (1). 3 lb. Brown Sugar, 2 ok. Salt Butter, 1 small tin Condensed Milk, i pint Sweet Milk, 1 tablespoonful Golden Syrjap, 1 do. Essence of Vanilla, Warm Milk. Put all into pan except mnilla, and boil thirty minutes, then add vanilla. Test by dropping a little into cold water ] when done it will be crisp. Russian Toffee (2). , 1 lb. Brown Sugar, J lb. Fresh Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls Sj'rup. Bring sugar, butter, and syiaip to boil, then add 1 tin Swiss milk and boil 20 minutes. Swiss Milk Toffee. Kinse a clean enamelled saucepan with cold water, and leave a tea- spoonful in. Add 2 oz. of butter, 1^ fablespoonfuls of golden syiaip, and 1 lb. of white moist sugar. When these fire melted stir in one 4^d tin of Swiss milk. Boil for exactly 20 minutes. Lift from the fire and stir in 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla essence. Pour on to a buttered dish, and score when cool. Turkish Delight. 1 oz. Cox's Gelatine, f teaspoonful Tartaric Acid, 2 breakfastcupful Castor Sugar, i teacupful Cold Water, | cupful Boiling Water, 1 teaspoonful Essence Vanilla, juice of a Lemon, and a little Carmine to colour. Soak gelatine in cold water 2 hours. Put sugar in boiling water. Boil 7 minutes with tartaric acid. Add lemon and pour over gelatine. Stir well; add essence. Pour in prepared plates. Vanilla Lozenges. ^ lb. coarse sugar put in pan with 1 oz. water and a few drops essence of Vanilla. Stir over fire with wooden spoon till mixture is liquid and on the point of simmering. Take ofi fire, stir a few min- utes longer, and drop it on slightly oiled baking sheets. When the drops get cold, remove them with the point of a sharp knife.