138 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. with it ^ pint of whipped cream and ounces of clarified isinglass. Ponr the cream into a mould embedded in rough ice. Colouring- for Fancy Jellies, Creams, &c. However ornamental coloured sweets uiay appear, tlii.s elegance should not be obtained to the risk of healih. Simple vegetable col- ouringsi should only be permitted. Of these we can safely recommend the following: — For red, it is usual for cooks to boil 16 grains of cochineal in the finest powder, ;vvith 1|- drachms of cream of tartar in \ pint of water very slowly for hour, adding a ]Diece of alum as large as a pea. The cochineal insect may be used in safety in such a small quantity; but we would rather recommend the juice of beehroot drawn out over the fire in a little water, with the addition of a squeeze of lemon-juice. For green, a beautiful colour may be obtained from the expressed juice .of spinach-leaves'. For yellow, if a transparent colour be required, orange or lemon jelly dissolved ; if opaque, the poiinded yolks of eggs. For white, pounded almonds or arrowroot. Damson or other Plum Cheese. Take damsons that have been preserved without sugar, pass through a sieve to take out the skins and stones. To every lb. of jDulp of the fruit put ^ lb. loaf sugar, broken small. Boil together till quite stiff. Pour into four common-sized dinner plates rubbed with a little salad oil. Put in warm jdace to dry, and when quite firm take from plate and cut to any chosen shape. Danish Mleringue. Some Preserves, a little Eed Currant Jelly, a little Sugar, J lb. Gelatine, Whites of 2 Eggs, some chopped Almonds. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, add a spoonful of red currant jelly to colour, and stir till it boils. Take a sixpenny sponge- cake and dig out a large part of tlie centre and fill with apricot jam. Beat the two whites, and mix with a tablespoonful of sugar. Fill the cake with the whites, glaze over witli the gelatine mixture, dust with almonds and pistachios, and serve in a crystal. Fig Compote. 1 doz. largo Figs, 2 oz. fine Sugar, 1 sixpenny jDacket Gelatine, whipped Cream. Take the figs, cut \ip in halves or quarters, put. them into a saucepan with the gelatine, sugar, and enough water to quite cover them. Let them simmer slowly for 2 hours, then pour into a wet mould. When quite set, turn out and serve with whipped cream round. Prunes can also be used in this way, \ising lb. of prunes (stewed) to tlie packet of gelatine. Fruit Ca.tea.u. Soak \ oz. gelatine in as much water as will cover it for ^ hour. Boil Y piiit water and lb. sugar to a syrup. Throw in 1 lb. of any kind of firm fruit, not broken, and simmer till tender. Dissolve gela- tine, put with fruit, add a few drops cochineal if needed, and juice of a lemon, if dry fruit has been used. Place a jelly-pot in middle of mould. Pour fruit round; turn out when cold on glass dish, and put whipped cream in centre.