TklED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 1U7 Black Cap Pudding:. 2 oz. Currants, G oz. Flour, 3 oz. Sugar, 2 Eggs, \ teaspoonful Salt, i tea- apooul'ul Nutmeg, 1 pint Milk. Mix the dry ingredients, then drop in tlie eggs, not beaten ; add 1 pint cold milk graduall}^ and beat all well. Butter a basin (not tin), siDi’inkle 2 oz. currants at bottom, pour in the batter, steam 2 hours, and serve with sweet sauce. Blanc-Mang:e. 1 packet * of Bird's Blauc-Mangc Powder, 2 oz. (or else 12 Imnpe) of Sugar, a3id 1 pint of new Milk or Cream. Out of a pint of new milk or cream take just sufficient to make the contents of the packet into a thin, smooth paste—when well mixed in a cpiart l)asin. Boil the remainder of the milk or creaiu with the sugar, and, wliilo still boiling, pour it all at once into the basin, stirring well two or three times; then again bring it to the boil, gently stirring, and pour it into a moistened mould. If put into a cool place, it will set in a few hours, but will Ijc all the better for standing a night. Additional Bichness.-—By gradually stirring into rather less than a pint of milk, 4 dessertspoonfuls of “Milkmaid Brand” condensed milk, and perfectly mixing it before it is used, blanc-mange almost equal in richness to that made with cream may bo produced at the most trifling cost. When thus prepared, only 3 or 4 lumps of sugar should be used instead of 2 oz. If unsweetened condensed milk is used, then 2 oz. of sugar, as stated above, must be added. Blanc-Mangfe with Fruit. Place some preserved or stowed fruit, well sweetened, in a dish or mould. Make 1 pint of blanc-mange with a packet of Bird’s blanc- mange powder, and pour wliile hot over the fruit in the dish or mould. Let it stand until quite set, and turn out into a glass dish. Botasso Pudding-. i oz. Semolina, 1 pint Milk, 1 Egg, 1 oz. Sugar, Vanilla, or other flavouring. Soak tire semolina in 1 gill milk for 10 minutes. Add sugar to 3 gills milk, and boil and pour over semolina, then boil it 20 minutes, stirring all the time. Take off fire and stir into it the egg and flavouring. Put into mould, and if wantfed hot turn it out in 10 minutes. Nicer cold. Bran Bread Pudding. 1 large slice Bran Bread, or the crumbs of, say, 4 (4d) Bran Scones, 6 Figs, i lb. Sultanas, Sugar to taste. Crumble bread into basin. Pour over only as much boiling water as will be entirely absorbed and yet moisten bread. Cover and let stand till alisorbcd. Beat with fork; add figs, sultanas, and sugar, and .steam 2 hours in buttered bowl. Bread Pudding (1). Butter thin slice of bread; cut in quarters. Beat up 1 egg in 4 pint milk; sweeten, and pour over bread. Bake in slow oven. * The packet of blanc-mango powder referred to in these Recipes is one ' of those contained in the ^ or Is boxes, of which there are two in the 6d lx)xes and four in the le bo.x.