TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 16 tongue, and put in salt and water. Put head, beef, and bones in a pan with 3 quarts water and 1 tablespoonful salt, and boil 6 hours. Remo've fat; add tiny bit of all the vegetables to refresh the flavour. Thicken by mixing 2 oz. cornflour, 1 teacupful of water and a little ketchup, and stir till boiling; add some pieces of the head, cut into little square pieces, and the juice of 1 lemon, and serve with a dust of cayenne pepper and squares of toast. White Soup (1). Take 2 lb. of the back ribs of mutton. Put into pot and cover with plenty cold water. Bring to the boil, then add carrot, turnip, onion, and parsnip, cut up into small pieces. Boil all together for 2 hours slowly. Lift out the mutton, put stock through sieve, bruising the vegetables well through, and retura to pan. For thickening, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour ; pepper and salt, mixed with a pint of milk ; add to the soup and stir till it boils. White Soup (2). 2 pints Water, 2 oz. Potatoes. Boil potatoes till cooked. Strain through sieve into another pot, add 2 pints milk, piece of butter size of egg, yolk of egg or cream, if desired, chdpped parsley, and salt. Winter Soup. 2 lb. sliced Potatoes, 2 or 3 Onions and Carrots, thinly sliced, a little Celery and Parsley chopped fine. Put all in saucepan of cold water. Make small dumplings of brown bread cnambs, nutmeg, olive oil, and chopped parsley, and boil them with the soup about 2^ hours. Thicken soup with a little flour. Count Rumford’s Soups, on which he fed some 1200 beggars in Munich, while they were taught to work, at an expense of less than a halfpenny per day, fuel and service included, were not only astonishingh'^ cheap, but veiy palatable and nutritious. Boil slowly 8 oz. barley and 6 oz. ireas in 4 quarts water until they are tender, which will take several hours, add lbs. peeled potatoes, 1 oz. salt, ^ teaspoon pepper, sweet herbs, and 4 oz. vinegar. When ready, stir in 8 oz. stale bread out or broken in small pieces. Thin ' with boiling water, if required. Onions, carrots, turnips, celery, cabbage, &o., may be added to vai’j' it, and any flavours. Stock for Vegfetarian White Soup. Mix flour with a little cold milk till quite smooth. Let the milk be boiling, add barley flour, butter, &c., and boil till it thickens. Arrowroot Thickening' for Soup. 1 oz. arrowroot. Add sufficient liquid to make consistency of batter, and quite smooth. Pour into the boiling soup. Stir quickly, and simmer 10 minutes. 1 oz. aiTowroot to 1 quai*t sonp.