Tried Fayodrites Cookery Book. SOUPS. A thick soup should be about the sawe consistency as cream, but a clear soup can never be too transparent. To obtain this transparency, be^in to skim directly it begins to boil, and skim until no scum remains. ^ teaspoonful salt added as soup comes to boil, also a cup of cold water thrown in ivhen it boils, make scum rise more freely. Add ketchup at last moment, as boiling dissipates the flavour. In hot weather, soups and gravies, if kept from day to day, should be warmed every day, and kept in cool larder, in freshly-scalded tureens. If stock is to be kept several days,'leave fat on till ready to use. Stock boiled with vegetables is more apt to turn sour than when made from meat alone. Broth will keep longer fresh if a cauliflower has been one of the vegetables used. Soyer says a little vinegar and brown sugar should be added to all vege- table soups. Before serving clear soup, add a lump of sugar. This improves its appearance. Boil soup steadily but not too rapidly, or vegetables will harden and the nourishment be kept from flowing out into water. To skim soup; if cold, dip spoon in warm water and skim; if hot, with paper drawn over top. When there is no time to boil meat, bones, &c., and stock is wajtied, take 2 tablespoons Plastnon powder, add gradually 2 breakfast cups tepid water. Stir till it boils, add large pinch of salt, and boil 2 minutes. To remove acidity from soup, put soup in pan to boil, add ^ teaspoonfid carbonate of soda, boil a minute. Skim carefully and serve. It is 7iot so delicate in flavour, but quite fit for use. Almond Soup. 2 oz. of Almonds, IJ pint of new Milk, ^ pint of Cream, 1 tablespoonful of Flour, 1 Onion, 1 root of Celery, 1 oz. Butter. Blanch and chop almonds small; boil gently 1 hour in a pint of milk with onion and white part of celeiy ; take out o^nion and celeiy ; mix flour and butter together; add \ pint of milk, a little Cayenne pepper, mace, and salt; stir soup on the fire till it has boiled a few minutes, add cream, and when it boils seiwe immediately. Artichoke Soup. 1 lb. Artichokes, 1 pint Milk and Water. Pare and put into milk and water immediately, or they will turn black. Boil till soft, then pass through wire sieve. Put back in pan, add a little more milk, a little salt, and small piece of butter. Stir with wooden spoon till boiling, and boil for 7 minutes.