129 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. being turned out, the pudding will be improved by being surrounded with custard. Spotted Dick. 6 oz. Flour, 4 oz. .Sultanas or Raisins, 3 oz. Suet, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Chop suet, mix dry ingredients. Add as much water as will make a paste thick enough to roll out, as for roly-poly pudding or jam roll. Wlien rolled out told over and put into a pudding cloth and boil for 1 hour. St Leonard’s Pudding*. Line the edge of a pie-dish with pastry, and spread 2 tablespoon- fuls of jam in the bottoijt. Make a sauce of 2 oz. butter and 2 oz. flour with J pint of milk. When well boiled, add 2 oz. of sugar, essence to flavour, and 2 yolks. Pour this over the jam, and bake Ir hour, or till the pastry is cooked and the custard set. Beat the whites of eggs stiffly, add a little sugar, and arrange roughly on the top. Place in the oven till set and lightly browned. Strawberry Pudding. 3 oz. Bread Crumbs, 3 oz. Flour, 2 oz. Sugar, 3 oz. Strawberry Jam, 3 oz. Suet, 2 Eggs, and a few drops Cochineal. Mix all the dry ingredients, add jam and well-beaten eggs and cochineal. Steam in buttered mould 2 hours. Suet Pudding. J lb. of Flour, pinch of Salt, i lb. Suet, 1 large teaspoonful of Baking Powder, 1 large tea^oonful Sugar, 1 Egg, and enough Milk (about i pint) to make it into a stiff batter. Put it into a well greased basin, and boil for 2 hours. Serve with jam or sugar and butter. Sufficient for 8. Sugar Roly-Poly. On paste, spread a layer of bread cnirnbs, then Demerara sugar, then a little very finely-chopped peel, and another layer of bread crumbs. Roll up. Fix edges ; brush over with milk and dredge with castor sugar. Bake 30 or 40 minutes, or boil 2 hours. Serve with syrup or syrup sauce. Sweet Omelette. 3 Eggs, i oz. Butter, teaspoonful Sngar, 15 drops Vanilla. Separate yolks from whites of eggs; mix yolks with sugar and flavouring, and well stir them in a basin to a cream; well beat the whites, and stir in lightly. Put butter into saucepan, and when hot pour in mixture. Place on stove till quite set. Brown the top either in oven or before clear fire. Serve with spoonfuls of jam between the folds. Sprinkle with sifted sugar. Swiss Jumble. i lb. Flour, 3 oz. Lard, 4 oz. Sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder, and about 1 gill sweet Milk. Mix and pour into well-greased tin, and bake in pretty quick oven. Swiss Pudding. Peel and slice 1 lb. of apples, and stew them with a tablespoonful of sugar, and a little water to keep them from burning. Mix in bowl a full breakfastcupful grated bread, 2 oz. chopped suet, and about 3 oz. sugar. Grease a pie-dish, and put in the bottom of it half of the mixture in the bowl. Then pour in all the stewed apples. Put on the top all the remainder of the mixture, making it smooth. Put the pudding in the oven for about ^ hour. E