TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 75 stewed Barley, with Tomatoes. Soak \ lb. barley 2 hours in 1 quart of 'water. Boil 2 hours. Season with salt and Cayenne pepper. Add either 1 lb. fresh tomatoes or i tin of American tomatoes. Simmer gently for 10 minutes. Vegetable Cutlets. 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon onion, 1 tablespoon beetroot cooked and cut small, a little salt and P^PPer, ^ lb. wheaten bread ciumbs, 2 hard-boiled eggs, and a spoonful ot butter ; mix we together, and moisten with 2 eggs beaten; shape into outletsi, and try. Vegetable Hash. 1 quart potatoes. 1 Carrot, 1 Small Beet. 1 White Turnip, a stick Celery, and a few Onions, Nut Butter. . Place potatoes finely sliced, chopped carrot and onion, and the beetroot and turnip, out veiy small, also celery cut in short lengths, in pan with 2 tablespoonfuls water. Cover closely and simmer slowly on top of stove. When hot, pour over them a cup of boiling nut cream, made by stirring 1 tablespoonful of nut butter in a cup of water. Stir together and serve hot. Vegetable Sausages. Boil 3 carrots, 4 onions, and 2 parsnips. Then chop all fine and prepare ^ pint of yellow peas, cook them soft; pound them well up; add the chopped vegetables, also layer choped parsley, a small bit of garlio chopped, salt and pepper, with 2 eggs and ^ lb. bread crumbs to stiffen the whole. Roll into pieces about size of ordinary sausages; dip in egg and bread crumbs; then fry in butter or vegetable oil— the oil must be boiling. Vegetarian Pie. ^ lb. imperial peas, soaked and boiled soft, ^ lb. lentils, and i lb. onions stewed soft. Cover with bread ci-umbs and bits of butter, and bake. , Vegetarian Pie (2). 1 lb. Potatoes, 1 lb. Mushrooms or Tomatoes, 1 large Ouion, 1 oz. Butter, Pepper and Salt. Peel and slice potatoes, put in dish with mushrooms or tomatoes cut up, also onion and seasoning. On top put thg butter broken up, add a little water. Cover with short pastry and bake 1 hour. Vegetarian Scotch Haggis. i lb. of Plour, i lb. of Bread Crumbs, 6 oz. of Butter, a small Onion, chopped, a small teacupful of Oatmeal, 2 Eggs, and moisten with water; Pepper and Salt to taste. Boil for about 3 hours. Vegetarian Sweetbreads- Stew 1 large parsnip, 1 onion, and 1 artichoke in milk, and flavour with white pepper, very little salt, and a small pinch mace. 'When quite soft, cut parsnip in slices and place on top of each piece of Cheddar cheese of same size. Lay these on a thick slice of buttered toast and put in quick oven till cheese becomes soft and slightly brown. 'While this is cooking, thicken the milk after straining onion and artichoke from it, with a nut of butter and a small spoonful flour. When the sauce boils 5 minutes, pour it on the “sweetbreads” when they are taken from the oven. Decorate with small sprigs of parsley.