TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY ROOK. 51 Larded Liver. Take a fresli lamb’s liver and lard it carefullj Avilli a «)nall lard- iij‘-- needle in rather close rows, covering the whole upper Place in clee>p baking dish, 'with chopped onions, carrots, slices of tat bacon, salt, pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 2 cloves. Pom oivei some good brown stock. Cover with a sheet of buttered papei, and ccok m a moderate oven for 40 or 50 minutes, removing the paper and dredging lightly with flour 8 minutes before flnisbiug. Place on a hot dish. >Strain the liquor, and slightly thicken with brown flour and buttei', adding cayenne and lemon juice. Boil it u]), and pour ovei the liver. Many cook.s merely remove tin; herbs and cloves, and thicken the gravy without straining it, and use vegetables. M'mccd Liver. Boil 2 pounds of liver till firm enough to cut easily. Then mince it I'ather finely; add a little minced suet^—cold bacon or ham fat i» even nicer; chop up a Spanisli onion, and tiy slowly in some dripping, just enough to make it soft; add the liver, etc., seasO'ii with pepper and salt, and cook very slowly, stirring continually (as it must not burn) for 10 or 12 minutes. Now add a enj) of stock, a. dasli ot Toi k- shire relish, and a tables]loonfnl of mlncc<l pai'sley. Co'ver closely, ,and simmer gently for about 1 hour. Tuiti out into the centre of a hob dish, place triangular sijipets of cris]), dry toast all round ; and send to table with a lemon cut, in halves, so' that each person can squeez^e just as much juice over tlieir plate of )uince a.s desiri^d. Meat Rolls. Scraps of any kind of tinned or cold fresh Meat, some cold Potatoes, a little Dripping, Pepper and Salt, Milk or Water, Mash enough potatoes with di'i])ping to fill a breakfast cup, mii with it as much flour as it will take up, moi.slen with milk into a smooth paste, and -roll out i-inch thick ; cut uj) the meat small, any scraps, with little bits of l)acoiu, or cold vegetables ; make a savoury mixture of it with pepper and salt, and a little sauce if at hand; cut the paste in squares. Boll a little of the mixture in each, ancLbake. Meat Shape. Mince meat very fine, then add bread crumbs, chopp^l onions, pepper, and salt. Mix all with a veiy little flour to bind them to- gether. Into this mix one egg, not beaten ; because if so, mixture would rise too quickly and then fall again, and be toaigh. You. may add any sweet herbs or cold vegetaljles you maj^ have. Butter basin or mould, put into it a few brown bread crumbs. Then roll them round your mould by shaking gently. Fill tin, twist j;apen over top, and either steam or bake. If steamed, only allow water to come T^ inches up mould. Serve with little pieces of toast all round. Meat Shape, with Macaroni. 1 11). !Mince, i lb. Bread Crumbs or OatraenJ (dried), Pep]>er and Salt, Herb Powder, 2 oz. HugoiPs Suet, aud 2 o'z. Macaroni (boiled for a few minutes in boiling water). Cover macaroni with stock; simmer tilT tender. Take half of macaroni ; chop up, and put among meat. Put mixtvire in mould, and cover witli paper. .Serve with half of macaroni round dish, or put remaining half I’ound buttered dish in honeycomb shape before ))ntting in mixture.