TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 192 A piece of lemon bound over a corn, and changed daily for 3 days, will loosen a corn so much that it may easily be removed if the foot is first soaked for a few minutes in warm water. Deafness induced by Cold, to Cure. Cleanse the ear out thoroughly by means of a piece of lint or cotton and warm water; afterwards soak a piece of cottcwi iir some glycerine, which insert in the ear. One or two applications will cure. Onion juice is one of the most effective remedies for earache. Wrap a large onion in heavy wrapping paper, wet it thoroughly, and roast in the coals. When tender, strip off the skin and squeeze out the juice by twisting in a thin cloth. Bottle and save for use. When needed, pour one or two drops in a spoon, waiun a little, and drop into the ear. Afterwards put in a bit of wann cotton to exclude the air. It rarely, if evei', fails to effect a speedy cure. Good Disinfectants. For travelling, take a Is box of permanganate of potash. Being dry, there is no chance of spilling, and water to mix it can always be had. It is most useful as a mouth wash or gargle. To make Condy’s fluid, 1 oz. to a gallon of water. Camphor is also most valuable. A few lumi^s packed in one’s box prevent unpleasant visitors, all too common in warm climates. Remedy for Dysentery. 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful sugar. Beat egg and sugar very lightly, and swallow at one gulp if possible. It soothes the inflammation in the stomach and intestines, and forms a transient coating to these organs till gradually the disease is removed. 2, or even 3, eggs a day may be used in this way, and patient kept very quiet, with very light diet other than the egg. Quick Cure for Earache. Take a small piece cotton wool, make a depression in centre witli the Anger, and All the indentation with as much ground pepper as will rest on a 3d piece. Tlien gather into a ball, and tie it ujd. Dip the ball into sweet oil, and insert into ear, covering with cotton wool. Recipe for Embrocation (1). Twopennywoidh each of spirits of tui*pentine, camphor, and laudanum. Mix together, and add 1 drop of aconite. Excellent. Recipe for Embrocation (2). 1 glass Turpentine, 1 glass Vinegar, and yolk of Egg (beaten). Put in bottle and shake well, then add white of egg (well beaten), and shake again. An Embrocation for Sprains, Sore Throats, &c. Take \ pint of turpentine and 2 raw eggs; put both into a large bottle; cork it, and shake till it becomes a thick cream; then add gradually 1 pint of vinegar and oz. of ammonia •, shake all well to- gether, and bottle for use. This mixture will keep for years, and is improved by the addition of a small lump of camphor. A Fire Exting^uisher. Take ten pounds of salt and five pounds of sal ammoniac and dis- solve in four and a half gallons of water. Bottle, and, in case of fire, break one or two bottles and throw the contents upon the burning place.