70 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Cutlets, Rice, and Lentils. Rice, i lb.; Lentils, \ lb. Boil these till quite tender, drain. Cut up an onion and 2 cloves of garlic, chop them very fine; also a little tarragon, parsley, and thyme. Mix well together, salt and pepper to taste. Bind all with well-beaten egg; shape into cutlets ; egg and bread crumb them. Fry in butter or oil a nice golden brown. Serve with tomato sauce. Mock White Fish. i pint Milk, 2 oz. Ground Rice, Butter, Bread Crumbs, Parsley, Onion, 3 Potatoes, Mace, Egg. Bring to boil pint milk, and thicken with ground rice, to make a little stiffer than for rice mould. Add a lump of butter, salt, a little grated onion, and a saltspoonful mace, and cook all together for 10 minutes, stirring frequently. Boil 3 potatoes, and put through masher, and while hot, add to rice, or it will not set well. Pour into dish to stiffen, and when quite cold, cut into slices, roll in egg and bread crumbs, fry, and serve with parsley sauce as a fish course. The mixture must be stiff; for the frying softens the rice. Forcemeat. 6 Eggs, 2 oz. Butter, | lb Bread Crumbs, i oz. Parsley, J oz. Beetroot, i oz. sweet Leeks, i oz. sweet Marjoram, Winter Savoury and Lemon Idiyme raised, and 3 tablespoonfuls Cream. Boil 4 eggs hard; take out yolks, and mash them with the butter, adding herbs and bread crumbs; season with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg. Add cream and 2 eggs (well-beaten); melt some butter in tin, and put in forcemeat, and roast before fire in Dutch oven. Serve with brown sauce, part of which may be poured on dish, and garnish with whites of eggs cut small. Bread and Parsley Fritters. 8 oz. Bread soaked in boiling water for 1 hour, and strained, 4 Eggs, and i oz. Parsley. Form into fxTtters and fry. Ground Rice Fritters. i lb. Ground Rice, boiled in ^ pint Water; 4 Eggs, teaspoonful Parsley, and teaspoonful chopped Onion. Form into fritters and fry. Potato Fritters. 1 lb. mashed Potatoes, li oz. Bread Crumbs, 4 or 5 Eggs. Form into fritters and fry. Rice Fritters. 6 oz. Rice, 5 Eggs, probably IJ pints Water. Boil rice till soft in as much water as it will absorb. Put it in a basin, and when nearly cold add eggs, well beaten. Season with pepper and salt, and form into fritters, and fry. Serve with brown sauce. Plainer fritters are very nice made with 2 teaoupfuls rice, swelled out in 6 teacupfuls water; add a little salt, 4 eggs, a very little milk, and pepper and salt. Savoury Fritters. 5 oz. Onions, teaspoonful powdered Sage, 4 Eggs, 4 oz. sted© Bread. Soak bread thoroughly for 1 hour in a little boiling water, and covered over; then mash with fork, picking out hard pieces. Boil the onion till quite soft; chop it small; add the sage, pepper, and salt,