TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 158 Dropped Cakes. 3 pint Flour, i lb. Butter, i lb. fine Sugar, i grated TSTutineg, handful Cur- rants, 2 Eggs, large pinch Carbonate of Soda. Bake in slack oven 10 or 15 minutes. Will make 30 cakes. Ging-er Scrolls. 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, 1 oz. Syrup, 1 oz. Demerara Sugar, \ teasjjooiiful Ground Ginger, few drops Lemon .Juice, ami Vanilla Essence. Put all in saucepan except Hour. Allow to slightly warm (to be like sauce), then stir in flour. Have two baking tins very well greased, as very likely to stick to tin. Put small dessertspoonfuls hero and there on tin with plenty space between each, and bake in mod- erately hot oven for a very short time, as likely to burn (5 minuter long enough). Mixture should be pretty thin. Roll round greased slipper moulds or a round stick, while cool, and remove moulds as soon as snaps are set. May put a little*pile of cream in 'each. Holiday Buns. 1 lb. Flour, I lb. Currants, i lb. Raisins, ^ lb. Sugar, 2 oz. Lemon Peel, 1 large tablespoouful Baking Powder, 2 Eggs, and J pint Sweet Milk. Put a tablespoonful into each patty pan and bake in a brisk oven Kisses. 1 Egg, 1 cupful Sugar, ^ do. Butter, i do. Milk, 1 teaspoonful Cream of Tartar, ^ do. Soda, Flour enough to make a stiff dough. Drop on tins, and sprinkle over with powdered sugar. Bake in a quick oven. Lemon Cakes. 3 oz. Butter, 3 oz. Sugar, 5 oz. Flour, 2 Eggs, | teaspoonful Baking Powder, T/emon or other flavour to taste. Rub butter, sugar, and flour together, add powder and switched eggs. Bake in small tins in a moderate oven. London Buns. l lb. Flour, 2 oz. Butter, 3 oz. Sugar, 5 oz. Sultana Raisins, 1 oz. Orange Peel (minced), 1 Egg, pinch of Salt, i pint Milk, 1 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, I teaspoonful Tartaric Acid or 2 teaspoonfuls of Cream of Tartar, few drops of Essence of Lemon. Knead until pretty firm, and then divide into small buns. Brush over with a little mifk, sprinkle a little rough sugar over the top. Bake in a smart oven for 20 minutes. OR, f lb. Flour, i lb. Butter, i lb. Sugar, i lb. Orange Peel, 3 Eggs, Butter-milk, Essence of Lemon, Lump Sugar, and 1^ teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. Make dough very stiff. Bnish over with egg, cVc., and bake about 15 minutes. Macaroons. To 1 lb. blanched and beaten sweet almonds, put 1 lb. sugar, and a little rose water to keep them from oiling. Tlien-beat the whites of 7 eggs to a stiff froth; add and beat well together. Drop on wafer J)aper, grate sugar over, and bake. 0 Meringues. Take ^ lb. sifted sugar, 6 whites of eggs. Whisk the whites ■ until they are quite stiff; then with a spoon mix in the sugar lightly, Cut several bands of white paper 2 inches wide, and put on wood well seasoned; then put spoonfuls of the mixture a little apart on the bands of papet, dust the top with sifted sugar, and put the boards into