162 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Banana. Cake. ^ breakfastcnpfal Batter, i cupful Milk, ] cupful Sugar, 1| cupfuls Flour 2 Eggs, 2i level teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. C/i GcxHi Ijiittei, acid sugar gradually, tlien beaten yollvs of eggs j add flour (sifted) with baking powder added, alternately, with milk, and lastly stiff whites. Bake in two cakes. Put banana filling be- tween and cover top with confectioner’s sugar mixed to a smooth paste with a tablespoon lemon juice and water. Banana Filling: for Cake (1). Take off skin and coarse threads and press banana through sieve to fill a cup. Add 1 cup sugar, juice and rind of a lemon and the unbeaten white of 1 egg. Beat with a perforated wooden spoon till solid to the bottom of bowl. It will take about 20 minutes. Use between the two cakes and on top of cake. Put on top with a pastry bag and tube, or jrile in little rocky heaps, and decorate with little candied cherries. (This mixture may be served in glasses or as a filling for Charlotte Russe.) OR, Banana. Filling* (2). Cook together cup of banana pulp (bananas peeled, and put through sieve), and juice of i a lemon or orange, ^ cup sugar and tablespoon butter. When thick and cold, spread on cake, or heat the ingredients in a double boiler and then stir in an egg beaten with a tablespoon sugar. Cook and stir till thick. Then cool and use as above. Rich Birthday Cake. i lb. Castor Sugar, i lb. Butter, | lb. Flour, i lb. Fruit, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, 2 oz. crushed Almonds, 3 Eggs. Add sugar and almonds to butter; add yolks (unbeaten) and flour (one yolk and a little flour each time). Beat well, add baking powder and fruit, and lastly whites. When baked take almond paste. Thump it into size of cake and press it round into shape with a slightly wetted knife. Leave for a few hours or till next day. Place cake on a plate, bottom side up, whisk off all crumbs with brush or towel, and spread royal icing over almond paste and round sides. Then smooth with knife slightly wetted. Take forcing bag with icing sugar, put on rose pipe, gather up bag, and squeeze out small roses all round edge of cake. Then unscrew rose pipe, put in jjlain one, and after emptying bag of white sugar put in red (coloured with cochineal) and do the writing part. Put aside for a little to set. Instead of ornamenting sides, you may now carefully lift cake off plate on to paper full of dessicated cocoa-nut or large crj'^stallised sugar, and throwing it up over sides, ornament it thus. Boston Tea Cake. 1 breakfastcupful Milk, 2 do. Flour, 1 do. Sugar, 1 Egg, Butter (size of wal- nut), 2 teaspoonfuls Cream of Tartar, 1 do. Carbonate of Soda. Beat well, and bake in buttered tin 20 minutes. Cut up, and put jam between slices, or bake in small patty pans. ' Bride’s Cakes. 6 Eggs, i lb. Currants, a few Raisins, i lb. Butter, I lb. Sugar, 6 oz. Peel, 1 lb. Floiir, 1 teaspooivftil Baking Powder.