TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 60 Baked Haricot Beans. Soak overnight, and boil till tender in same water. Place in buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with nut oil, and bake in moderate oven till nicely brown,. Beans, Haricot, a la Vevey. 1 dessertspoonful Butter, 1 breakfastcupful Milk, 1 dessertspoonful Flour, 1 tablespoonful chopped Parsley, Pepper and Salt. Soak beans all night in cold water; then drain off'; put them on to boil with a teaspoonful of dripping, but no salt. Boil for 2^ hours, and drain them diy. Put the butter and flour into a pan, and stir over the fire; then add tlie milk, and stir till boils. Add parsley, pepper, and salt; mix well, and pour over the beans when dished— serve hot. Beet Root. Wash and brush the roots, being careful to avoid breaking off the fibres, to prevent the juice escaping, and spoiling the colour and flavour. Put them in a pan of boiling water, adding salt and a small piece of soda, and boil from 1 to 2 hours, according to size. Put into cold water, and rub off the skin with the hand. Slice them, and serve either with vinegar or mustard sauce. Beetroot is very good boiled as usual, and served covered with white or parsley sauce, or with Spanish onions sliced. When a piece of straw will pierce the beets, they are ready. Beet Root, Fried. Prepare as above. Season with pepper and salt. Fry slices in butter or dripping. Place on a flat dish, and garnish with parsley. Brussels Sprouts. Allow them to stand for some time in cold water and salt, cut off stems, and take away outer leaves. Throw into plenty of fast boiling water, salted. Boil fast with lid off, skimming occasionally. Boil quickly 10 minutes. Drain. Add a small piece butter and a little pepper. Serve at once. Brussels Sprouts with Chestnuts. Take as many chestnuts as sprouts. Cut a piece off to prevent bursting. Put on in cold water and boil rajiidly 16 minutes. Remove husks and skins. Melt 1 oz. butter, add pepper and salt. Add chestnuts and sprouts. Shake over fire till hot. Cabbag:e, Ladies’. 1 firm white Cabbage, 1 large Egg, 1 tablespoouful melted Butter, Pepper, Salt, a very little Milk, fine Bread Crumbs. Boil cabbages in two waters, and let it get quite cold. Cut up very fine; add rest; stir and mix well; put in buttered pie-dish ; strew with crumbs, and bake covered -I liour. Remove cover, and brown. To Boil Carrots. Brush and wash well. Wlien boiled, take off skin with back of knife. Much better than scraping beforehand, because juice is kept in.