3 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. ofY. If liil is left, on certain salts in vegetablos cannot escape in steam, and some persons will find broth disagree. Some peopJe add a cabbage, but must bo Tuning and fresh. Never add onions , they have too strong a flavour. J hoTir Ijofore I'eady add 1 caiTot grated, and, if possible, a good tablespoonful minced parsley. Cook very thoroughly and slowly, and be careful to skim now and again, iltten- tion to this makes such a difterence to flavour. Boil .‘I hours, taking the meat out Avhen cooked 2 houi’s, and reheating at the last. Lift meat to hot dish. Put a little broth round beof, and ec-i've. If broth is for persons of weak digestion, scald vegetables before adding to broth, by covei ing them for 10 minutes with boiling water. Broth (Sheep’s Head). 1 Head and Trotters thoroaglily cleaned and soaked all night in salt and water. Scrape them again ne.xt morning, pour a kettleful of boiling water over, and let .soak for i hour. Put in pot, with S or 6 quarts cold Water, a teacupful of Barley, do. of Peas, Turnip cut in squares, Carrot sliced. Leeks or any other vegetables desired. Boil for 3 or 4 hours, season with popper and salt. Serve broth in tureen, and head and trotters on ashet, garnished with pieces of turnip and carrot. The head may bo sprinkled with a few brown bread crumbs and minceil jiarsloy, and browned a few minutes in oven. Forcemeat Balls may bo made by mixing the tongue and brains with an ecpial quantity of fine bread crumbs, pepper and salt, a littlo minced parsley, and 1 egg. Broth (Vegetarian). Put into a pan 2 quarts of water, ^ teacupful of rice or barley ; let it boil; add a small quantity of mixed vegetables, such as lettuce, carrot, turnip, parsnip, leek.s, celery, parsley, and peas; wash and cut the vegetables small; add 1 carrot grated, and simmer for four hours; season with pepper and salt. Brown Soup. 1 Ih. Shill of Beef, 1 Carrot, 1 Turnip, 1 Large Onion, 1 Teaspoonful each of Flour, Sugar, and Butter, 6 pints Water, Pepper and Salt. Put the sugar, flour, and butter in pan and brown well. Have meat and vegetables cut in very small pieces, and alo'ng with bone fry for about 10 minutes, turning constantly with spoon, add Avater, and as it comes to the boil, skim well. Let boil gently for 3 hours, strain and return to pot, add pepper, salt, and thicken with venni- celli, custard cut small, or anything you like. Brown Celery Soup. 1 head Celery, 1 Potatoes, and 1 Carrot (all cut in small pieces), 1 Spanish Onion, and 2 quarts Water. Chop the onion small, and fry in butter till brown. Add to the water, and boil for 15 minutes, then strain out the onion. Add the vegetables, and boil 1 hour, seasoning Avith pepper and salt. Carrot Soup. 2 bunches young carrots or one, if large; cut in small pieces. Put in pan Avith 2 oz. butter, a little sugar, salt, and pepper. Put lid on and cook 15 minutes. Add a bay leaf, sprig of parsley, piece of thyme, small onion, and a quart good stock. Boil gently 1 hour. Add 2 tablespoonfuls rice and cook till tender. Pass all through sieve. Add 1 gill cream and heat thoroughly.