88 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. out ■when ba.k«l. When baked enoaigh, remove the inner layer of paste, scooping it well out. Then fill up with the following mixture: —Make a thick white sauce, and add enough grated cheese (gruy^re or Cheddar)—to taste well of cheese, adding a little cayenne and carbonate of soda, and serving quite hot. Devilled Cheese. 2 oz. Cheese, 1 tablespoonful Hot Pickles, piece of Butter size of Walnut, Cayenne Pepper and Mustard. Put cheese into pan with the butter. When quite melted, add the pickles, chopped up, pepper and mustard, and serve on rounds of toast. Cheese Fingfers. 2 slices Toast, 1 tablespoonful Cream, 2 tablespoonful Grated Parmesan, 2 oz. Sweet Almonds, Pepper, and 1 tablespoonful Chopped Parsley. Blanch almonds and out in four, fi-y in butter till a golden brown and drain well. Mix cheese, pepper, parsley, and cream, and spread mixture on toast. Cut in lengths 1^ inches wide. Sprinkle ahnonds over, and serve vei’y hot. Cheese Fondeau. J pint Milk, 4 oz. Bread Crumbs, 2 Eggs, 6 oz. grated Cheese; season with Pepper, Salt, and Cayenne. Boil the milk, and put it over the crumbs ; allow this to cool, and then add the other ingredients. Bake in a good oven for about 20 minutes. It can be baked in a small pie-dish, but it is nicer in small vamakins, or just dropped in spoonfulsi upon a greased paper in a tin. Cheese Fritters (1). 2 oz. grated Cheese, 1 dessertspoonful Mustard, 2 tablespoonfuls Flour, very little Pepper and Salt. Mix in ^ gill milk. Beat up 2 whites of eggs vei’y lightly; add, and fry in small fritters. Cheese Fritters (2). 1 tablespoonful Flour, 1 Egg, a little Milk, Pepper, Salt, and Cayenne; 4 oz. grated Cheese. Mix to a thick batter, stir in cheese just before frying. Immed- iately before removing fritters from pan, lay a thin slice of cheese on each, and serve very hot. Cheese Muff. oz. Butter, 4 oz. grated Cheese, 1 teaspoonful Salt. 4 well-beaten Eggs. Put cheese and butter and a few bread cnimbs into pan on fire. "When they begin to melt add eggs and seasoning. Stir and cook till mixture can "be pushed up into a soft muff-like form. Serve instantly. Cheese Omelette. 1 breakfastcupful Milk, ^ lb. Cheese, 2 Eggs, Pepper and Salt. Grate the cheese, and put it in a pan with the milk. Set it over the fire, and stir until the cheese is melted; then lift pan from the fire. Beat up the eggs; add them to the cheese and milk, also pepper and salt to taste. Pour all into a hot buttered pie-dish, and brown in an oven before the fire for 15 minutes. Cheese Pudding: (1). i lb. Bread, grated; lb. Cheese, grated; 2 Eggs, Pepper, Salt, a pinch of Carbonate of Soda, and Milk. Mix bread and cheese well; add pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs;.