108 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Bread Puddingy (2). i lb. Bread, 8 oz. Sugar, 1 Egg, 2 oz. Currants, 2 oz. Eaisins, i pint Milk, Nutmeg, grated Lemon Eind. Soak the bread 1 hour in cold water, drain it, add the currants, sugar, &c., the egg well beaten, and milk. Pour all into a greased pie-dish and bake 1 hour. Bread Pudding:, Steamed. J lb. Bread (2 thick slices), 2 tablespoonfuls Marmalade, i pint Milk, 2 Eggs, 1 oz. Sugar. Boil milk and pour over bread, cover it and stand 10 minutes, beat to pulp with fork. Add eggs well beaten, and 1 tablespoonful marmalade. Butter a mould, and spread the remainder of the mar- malade over the bottom. Pour in pudding and cover with buttered paper and steam 1 hour. Turn out, allowing the marmalade to fall round it like a sauce. Sultanas may be used instead of marmalade. Bread Pudding:, Boiled. 1 breakfastcupful grated Bread, 1 teacupful Flour, 2 tablespoonfuls Sugar, i lb. Sultana Eaieins, J lb. minced Suet, 1 teaapoonful grorind Cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, 1 breakfastcupful Milk. Clean the raisins, mix all the dry ingredients in a basin, add the milk, and mix thoroughly. Pour into a buttered pudding basin, cover with a greased paper, and steam for not less than 1^ hours. Serve hot. Brown Pudding:. 3 oz. Suet, 3 teacupfuls Self-raising Flour, 3 tablespoonfuls Treacle or Syrup, 1 teacupful Sultanas, 1 teacupful Currants, flavouring of Nut- meg or Ginger. Mix all these with butter-milk if possible, and steam 3 hours. Cabinet Pudding:, Steamed (1). Butter a mould, prepa're two cupfuls of bread crumbs, clean and cut up one half cupful raisins and currants; make a custard by beat- ing 1 egg, 1 cupful of milk, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 half salt- spoonful of salt. Place the bread and fruit in alternate layers in the mould, pour in the custard, and steam ^ hour. Serve with the follow- ing lemon sauce:—Boil 2 cupfuls of hot water and 1 cupful of sugar together 6 minutes, then stir in 3 heaped teaspoonfuls of corn-flour wet in a little cold water; cook 8 or 10 minutes, add the juice and rind of 1 lemon, stir in 1 tablespoonful of butter; when melted, serve. Cabinet Pudding: (2). Butter a mould, and All it with alternate layers of hard sponge- cake and jam; pour over it a custard made with 3 eggs well whisked, and two cupfuls of milk. Steam for ^ hour. Cake Pudding:. i lb. Self-raising Flour, 2 oz. Butter, and 1 oz. Lard, 6 oz. sifted Sugar, 1 gill Milk, and 1 Egg. Beat to a cream, pour into buttered tin, and bake in quick oven for 20 minutes. Canary Puddmg:. The weight of 3 eggs in Butter and Flour, and, the weight of 2 in Sugar, 3 Eggs, a little essence of Lemon, and a teaspponful of Baking Powder. Beat the butter and sugar tyo a cream, sift in flour, add eggs (having beaten yolks and whites separately), lastly baking powder, and steam for 2 hours.