194 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Mustard Lotion. Mix 2 oz. mustard with \ pint spirits of wine, and 2 drachms of camphor; let it stand 3 days in a bottle carefully corked, then strain it off, and keep closely bottl^ for use. It is excellent for sprains, rheu- matism, etc. Mustard Plaster. Take a piece of brown paper the size required, and a piece of mus- lin the same size. Mix into a paste as much mustard as will be re- quired to cover the paper; spread evenly, cover with muslin, and turn over the edges of the paper about | inch ; keep the plaster in position with a binder. When removed, wash part gently with foap and water, put on cotton wool, and replace the binder. Cure for Neuralg^ia. i pint Coutts’ Acetic Acid, 1 tablespoonful common Salt, 1 teaspoonful Cay- enne Pepper, and boiling Water to make up to a pint. Sponge back of neck with warm water, then free the sponge of the water and dip in above mixture and rub all round the back of the neck, up behind the ears, and on the open of head until it smarts. Ptit a shawl round the head and try to get sleep. If smarting is un- bearable, rub warm oil on the place. Bran Poultice. Put sufficient bran in hot basin ; pour boiling water, by little ana little into the bran, and mix and stir it up till it is all a moist mass, but not wet. The great thing is to avoid using more water than bran can easily absorb. Fill flannel bag ready for purpose, and fasten with binder; one or tw'O tablespoonfuls mustard may be added if .great power is required, not otherwise. Bread Poultice. Take slice of bread without crust—better than little bits—put in basin, and pour boiling water over; cover with plate, and let it stand by fire; strain, break with fork, spread, and a}]tply, with nothing be- tween poultice and skin. Carrot Poultice. Most useful for relieving pain, &c.; good for crashed finger or knocked knee—takes pain aw'ay in a few minutes; good also for stye. Scrape and grate sufficient of a large, juicy carrot. Heat in dry sauce- pan till hot enough to bear your finger, and apply, with nothing be- tween poultice and skin. Charcoal Poultice. t This is useful in case of ulcer, &c. Take lb. linseed meal and 1 oz. powdered charcoal. Mix f oz. of charcoal with the meal, and make as for ordinary poultice. After it is spread on linen, shake remainder of charcoal over it, and apply. Linseed Poultice. Have ready a board to make poultice on, two basins, a piece of calico rather larger than required, a broad knife, piece of macintosh or oiled silk, to cover, a piece of thin soft muslin, and a flannel binder. Pour thoroughly boiling water into one basin, then into the other. This heats the basin you are going to use. Then pour in sufficient boiling water, say one large breakfastcupful; stir in linseed meal as for porridge, stirring quickly all the time; when stiff enough, spread