TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 13!) Fruit E^gfs. Somo stale Madeira or Sponge-Cake cut into rounds, a few tinned Apricots, 1 pint Milk, 2 tablespoonfuls Cornflour, rind of 4 Lemon, 14 oz. Sugar. Place the slices of cake, cut a little larger than the apricots, on a glass ilisli; soak them with tlie apricot syrup; then place half an apricot, round side up, on each slice. Make a blanc-mange with the milk and cornflour, sugar and lemon. Remove the rind, then pour the blanc-mange carefully over the apricots, so as to make them resemMe poached eggs. Sprinkle a little cocoa or chocolate on each, and serve ; or place some whipped cream round apricots, and sprinkle sugar and nutmeg over to resemble salt and pepper. Fruit Jelly. 1 pint orange or lemon and 1 pint raspberry or other flavour, dis- solved in 1 quart and pint of nearly boiling water. ^ tin apricots and ^ tin of pine apple cut up small and placed in a deep glass disli. Add the juice of tlie fruit to tlie dissolved jolly, and when nearly cold pour over the fruit. There slmuld be (piito fl pints of liquid. Ging-er Cream. 4 pint of Cream, 4 Lemon, 4 oz. proeerved Qiuger, 2 oz. Sugar. Hace the cream in a basin, and whij) it to a stiff froth, add the lemon juice and tlie syrup from the ginger. Mix them very lightly together, and sprinkle in tlie sugar. Cut up the ginger in small pieces, and place them in equal, quantities in some small paper cases. Put the cream in a forcing tube, and force it in large roses on the top of each. Serve in a glass dish. Small Ginger Creams. Dissolve i oz. cut gelatine in 1 gill milk. Allow to cool while whipping 1 gill cream to stiff froth. Add milk and gelatine to cream with 2 oz. preserved ginger cut in small pieces and 1 tablespoonful ginger syrup. Add sugar, and allow cream to cool, stirring now and again. Put in small wetted moulds. Ginger with Cream. Preserved Ginger, Whipped Cream. Cut up some ginger about the size of peas and put a teaspoonful and a very little syrup in each paiaer ramequin case. Fill the cases with whipped cream and serve. Ginger Souffle. Put in pan 1 oz. butter to melt, add 1 oz. flour; stir together a few minutes to cook flour; add 1 gill milk and 1 tablespoonful syrup of ginger. Put over fire again till it leaves side of pan. Take from fire, cool, then add 1 dessertspoonful sugar, some of the ginger cut in pieces, a few drops of ginger essence, the yolks of 4 eggs and whites of 5 ; add yoUvs to mixture after it has cooled; add at last minute the whites, whipped to stiff froth. Put into souffle tin, and pin a greased band of paper round. Take a piece of ginger, and put in pan with a little water. Roil for a few minutes, and pour round pudding when ready. Steam 35 minutes. Gooseberry, Raspberry, or Strawberry Fool. Put in stone jar 2 lb. unripe gooseberries, ^ pint water, lb. sugar. Put jar in saucepan of boiling water on fire until quite soft