TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 07 with a clean skewer to keep the rice from mashing. Turn all on to a hot dish, and put into a warm oven for 10 minutes or so to dry. Rice and curry must always be served piping hot and on separate dishes, and should always be eaten with a spoon and fork only—the meat being cooked till quite tender. To Boill Rice Dry (No. 2). Wash J lb. whole rice, and put it in a pot with 2 breakfastcup- fuls of water and a pinclx of salt. Let it boil about 20 minutes, covered closely with the lid and never stirred ; then it will be cooked and dry. Press it into a shape, and turn it out to use with meat instead of potatoes. OR, 1 breakfastcupful rice, well waslied and put on fire with three breakfastcupfuls water and a pinch of salt. Bring it quite through the boil, then set on cool part of range to swell out gradually for fully an hour, never lifting the lid. Will be cooked and dry. A little lemon juice added to tlie water rice is boiled in, gives it a nice white appearance, and causes grains to separate well. A Black Man’s Recipe to Dress Rice. Wash him well, much wash in cold water, the rice flour make him stick. Water boil all ready very fast. Throw him in, rice can’t burn, water shake him too much. Boil hours or little more, rub one rice in thumb and finger; if all rub away, liim quite done. Put rice in colander, hot water run away. Pour cup of cold water cn him, put back idee in saucepan, keep him covered near the fire, then rice all ready. Eat him up! Rice Risotto. Rice, Tomatoes, Cheese grated, or Macaroni instead of Rice. Boil the rice and pile it up high. Pour over tomato pur6e, made by stewing tomatoes and passing them through a sieve. Cover with grated cheese, pepper, salt, Ac. Vegetable Risotto. Boil some rice as for curry. Stew 3 tomatoes ^ hour with pepper, salt, and a little vinegar. Pass through sieve and pour over rice. Spinach. Carefully pick, wash, and put into pan that will just hold it. Sprinkle with salt and cover close. Set on fire, and shake frequently. When done, squeeze quite dry between two plates and beat it well with a bit of butter, or press into a mould, and serve with plain melted butter in a tureen. Any tender greens, beet, or turnip tops, kale, Ac., treat like spin- ach. When ready put in hot dish piece butter size of egg, \ teaspoon salt, saltspooh pepper, and, if liked, a tablespoonful vinegar. Kale, however, require 2 hours’ boiling. Tomatoes. To peel ripe tomatoes without puttjng in hot water, press the back edge of the blade of the knife gently all over the surface of tom- ato, then make an incision in the skin with the sharp edge of the knife, and it can be peeled off, and the tomato served immediately.