T TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 29 Beef Steak and Kidney Pie. 1 lb beef, cut in strips 2 inches long and 1 inch broad. _ Dip m pepper, salt, and flour, and roll up. Put very lightly in pie-dish ; never pack anything in tight, that gases may escape. Add 4 she^ s kidneys, skinned and out in neat pieces; tablespoonful ketchup, te^ spoonful Harvey’s sauce, enough stock or water to nearly lill dish. Cover with pastry, and bake in moderate oven 2 hours. Boiled Beef. Piece of Brisket, Aitchbone, or Eump, Carrots, Turnips, Onions, Celery, bunch of Sweet Herbs, Peppercorns. , , , Put in pan with enough boiling water to cover, and boil slowly 2 to 3 hours, according to size of joint. About 1^ hour.s before it is done drop in,' vegetables. Dish the beef with vegetables as a garnish. (Save liquor for Soup.) Boiled Meat Pudding. J lb. Stewing Beef, 1 clesBertspoonful Flour, 1 small Kidney, 1 teaspoonful Salt, i teaspoonful Pepper. Cht the meat and kidney into tlun slices; mix the flour, pepper, and salt together, and dip each piece of meat in it, and then roll it up. For paste, lb. self-rising flour, 4 tablespoons suet, a pinch of salt, 4 teaspoon pejiper. Mix the dry things together, and make all into .a stiff paste with 4 teacupful cold water. Divide the paste into 2 pieces, making 1 piece larger than the other. Poll each piece of paste into a. round scone. Put the larger scone into a buttered boavl; then put in all the meat and a teacupful of water. Wet edges, cover with top piece. Make a small hole on the top of the paste. Cover with buttered paper, and steam 3 hours, or dip a pudding cloth in boihug water, flour well, and tie on tightly. Cover it plentifully with boiling water, taking care that the bowl is filled with the meat and high in the middle, or water will got in and spoil the pudding. Boil 3 hours at least. Boiled Bound of Beef. Take about 12 lbs..of the silver side of the round of beef after it has been in salt about ten days. Just wash off the salt ; skewer it up in a nice round form, and bind it with tape. Put in a saucepan boiling water sufficient to cover the meat. As it begins to boil, care- fully skim. Then simmer gently till done, about 3 hours after the water boils. Remove tape and skewers, which should bo replaced by a silver one; pour over a little of the liquor, and garnish with carrots. Carrots, turnips, parsnips, and sometimes suet dumplings accompany this dish, and these may all be boiled with the beef. The outside slices may be cut off before being sent to table and potted for breakfa.st. Bomb-Shell. (From ail old Soldier of 1820.) lb. Steak, cut in small pieces, and rolled in the following mixture: — \ teaspoonful Pepper, 1 teaspoonful Salt, 2 teaspoonfiils Flour. To make the Paste—1 lb. Flour, 1 teaspoonful carbonate of Soda, 1 teaspooaful Cream of Tartar, 2 oz. Butter, a little Pepper and Salt. Mix with a little milk into a firm paste, then cut in two pieces, 1 large and 1 small piece. Roll out large piece into a round scone: put the steak in centre, and gather up the paste. Put a little water