TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. ' 223 soapy water, hot as hands can bear. Lastly, rinse well in hot water sliehtly blued. I’ut 4 times through the wringer and shake well to raise the pile which makes flannels warmer to wear. Wliile the things are drying they should he repeatedly (but gently) pulletl in every direc- tion When about half dry, fold evenly and mangle well, then dry thoroughly. In winter, flannels are best dried by the fire, or better still, on the pulleys. They should not be allowed to He in water, nor left lying wet. To Wash Flannel or Flannelette So that they may not shrink, stir 1 tablespoonful of ammonia into a gallon of very hot water, also some soap previously boiled. Put in the clothes, and press under the water with a stick j cover the vessel closely, and let it stand for one hour, when the dirt will almost drop out of the flannels. Rinse well in hot water, and hang out quickly. This method is specially good for. white flaimel. To Wash Red Flannel. Wash in same manner as wliite, except to the last water add vitriol, in proportion of 1 teaspoonful to 3 gallons of water; tins Axes the colour. Salt may be used, one large handful to about 2 gallons of water, but it has the drawback of making the flannel absorb moisture. To Shrink Flannel. Before making up, soak for a night in cold water, then wring out of warm water in which a little soap has been dissolved. To Wash New Blankets. Soak for some hours in cold water, to which two or three hand- fuls of salt have been added. Wring well, and you will then have no difficulty in washing in the usual manner. If washed right off in hot water the first time, that tends to set the sulphur in the blankets, and turn them black. Select, if possible, a day with a good breeze for washing. To Wash Muslin Blouses. Begin and finish right off, as muslin thickens if left long wet. Swill well in cold water to get rid of dust, and squeeze dry. Don’t wring, or you will stretch and break the muslin. Knead in warm, soapy lather till clean. Then put in pan with cold water softened with soap and borax, and, if white muslin, boil 10 minutes. Rinse in warm water, then cold, then in light blue water, and while stiU wet, starch in clean starch made as follows : —1 tablespoonful starch mixed smooth in 2 tablespoonfuls cold water. Pour over IJ pints boiling water, stirring rapidly all the time. Starch when cooled a little, squeeze dry as possible, place m clean cloth, roll well with rolling- pinto absorb any superfluous starch, and iron. For blue and mauve muslins, add 1 tablespoonful vinegar to 1 quart rinsing water. For yellow muslins, add 1 teaspoonful methylat^ spirits to 1 quart rins- ing water. For black and white muslins, green or red, use 1 table- spoonful salt to each gallon of rinsing water. Faded colours in mus- lins are restored by steeping in alum auu water oz. to each quart) for about 2 hours.