TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 95 Kidney Shape. . , ^ . , 5 or 6 Sheep's Kidneys, i lb. Lean Meat, 3 oz. SueL 1 teacupful Oatmeal, Pepper, Salt, Mustard, a little Minced Onion, 1 Egg. Chop very fiiio, acid ■\vell-hefitoii egg. Stoani hoiiis Sei\e with good onion gi-avy. Kidneys on Toast. Mince two slieep’s kidney.s j yiut ^ oz. butter in a pan. When hot, stir in the kidney's, and stir five minutes; then drop into the pan 1 yolk of egg, salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice.' Stir all together, and spread on nicely cut pieces of buttei'od toast. Macaroni and Toast. i lb. Macaroni, 1 breakfastcupful sweet Milk, i lb. grated Cheese, i tea- spoonful Salt, J teaspoonful Pepper. Wash the macaroni well, and break it into small pieces. Put it into boiling salted water, and let it boil for 10 minutes. Drain away the water, and add the milk. Let it cook slowly for thirty minutes; then add the pepper and half of the cheese. Pour all on an ashet. Sprinkle the rest of the ojieese on the top. Put it into the oven to brown. A handful of grated bread may be sprinkled on the top. Medallions of Tomatoes. Pass some tomatoes through a wire sieve. Season; add enough aspic to make it firm. When cold, pour a layer into a flat tin. When set, add a layer of cream of chicken ; when set, another layer of toma- toes. When cold, turn out on a wet napkin, and cut with a round cutter. Cross two thin stripes of white of egg oai top of each.. When dished, put salad or cress in the centre. Chicken cream for medallion:—Pound the breast of a. chicken' with good white sauce. Season, and mix with wliipped cream. Add aspic or gelatine to make it finn when cold. Mince Kromestries. Cut some thin slices of bacon inch broad by 2 inches long; lay them flat, and place on each a little highly-seasoned minced rabbit or fowl; roll up the bacon tightly, taking care that the mince does not escape, and set aside in a cool place. Dijj each into' frying butter, and fry a golden brown. Garnish with fried pai’sley. Mushrooms and Bacon. 3 slices Bacou, 2 Mushrooms for each slice. Prepare mushrooms. Melt in pan piece of butter size of an egg. . Put in mushrooms with sprinkling pepper and, salti, and cook till you 1 repare bacon. On each piece of bacon lay mushrooms, and serve hot. Mushroom Cream. i lb. Mushrooms, 1 tablespoonful Plasmon Stock, 2 oz. Butter, 1 gill Cream, Pepper and Salt. Stew mushrooms in butter till tender, then stir in the cream, plasmon, and seasonings, and cook 4 minutes. Put it through a hair sieve and make hot again. Spread on small squares of buttea-ed toast, and serve. Mushroom au Gratin. Chop up half-a-dozen mushrooms, and mix them in a stewpan with a little bit of cliopped bacon, salt and pepper to taste, and a little minced thyme. Fry these together for a few moments, and add the yolks of two eggs (one whole egg will do). Stir until cooked ;