1 Pr led : ^ai Dourltes c 00 ker V 1 Boo mre £. Tm. ftirh. Leather Bqards, 2/ Nett; Cloth Boardi, 1/6 Nett. PMUit, M ntra. Paper Covers, 1/ Nett PMtalt. N «tr». PERSONAL AND PRESS OPINIONS. sir HBNET LITTLEJOHN. M.D., s»yi: — “Ai I haT* always recognised, during nay profesaional lif«, that go^ cookery saTts monoy, and, what is of greater importance, secures healwy digoetio«, I haT® been a diligent reader of works on this pbject. None us pleased me more than one that caught my eye in Mr Fairg^ieTe's shop the other day, entitled ' Tried Favourites.' Clear in description, accurate m quantities, and strictly economical, it is just the book every housewife should have. It is published in an attractive, cheap form, and besides the recipes for ordinary dishes, the volume con tains many useful hints for every-day occurrences in domestic life."—Hbnby D. Litti>ejohn, M.D., Medical Officer of Health, Edinburgh. I have been often asked to name a cheap, concise, and reliable cookery book. There are so m^y books on the market all claiming to be the only one that I have never liMn able to make any choice in the matter, and I have thought it bettor to lot my readers join in the cookery book gamble and spend a few shillings in the purchase of experience. Just lately, how- ever, a cookery book has been brought to my notice which seems so admir- ably suited for a homo of moderate income that I think I do a service to my readers by mentioning it. It is called “Tried Favourites"; _ the recipes it contains ora all eminently practical, the instructions are given in the most simple and unmistakable language, and, while variety is the aim of the book throughout, the needs of the middle-class home may be said to be its keynotes.—Franotes, in “T.P.'s Webklt." Again I have the pleasure of announcing the “debut" of anoiher edition of that culinary wonder of the age—“Tried Favourites"—wHch, like Tennyson's brook, “goes on for ever." No other cookery book ever yet had sueh a run of popularity, and did I not hold so high an opinion oi the sonnd and reliable recipes it contains I should certainly feel quite jealous of Mrs Eirk—the clever compiler of this valuable book.—Mbs Minnie Dowib in “Weekly Scotsman." The latest edition, which has numerous fresh attractions, san bo ob- tained in Edinburgh:—J. B. ■ Fairgrrievo, Cockburn Street; London— H. Marshall & Son, Temple Avenue, and all booksellers; price Is, Is 6d, 2s; postage 3d and id extra.