66 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. together with knife. Siirinkle salt and pepper over potatoes, and place parsley and butter on top. Pota.to Ribbons. Wash and peel the potatoes, taking out the eyes and specks; peel them as you would an apple, very thinly into ribbons; lay in very cold water 1 hour before using, or overnight, if for breakfast. Dry place them in a frying basket, and fry them in boiling fat for about 6 minutes. Sprinkle with salt, dish them in a pyramid on a napkin. Potatoes, Savoury. 8 large Potatoes, 1 large Onion, 2 oz. Butter, i pint Water, teaspoonful Saae, Salt and Pepper. Pare potatoes and slice them ; chop onion fine ; grease a pie-dish. Put a layer of potatoes, sprinkle pepper and salt, sage, and onions. Place butter in pieces on the top, add water, and bake for 1| hours. Potato Souffle. Well wash 4 large potatoes and bake in oven for J hour; then cut off top, scoop out the potato with teaspoon, taking care not to break the skin; then pass potatoes through wire sieve. Take 3 ozs. of this, place in pan with \ ounce butter, ^ gill milk, the beaten yolk of 1 egg, and a little chopped parsley. Stir well, and add the whites of 2 eggs, switched to stiff froth. Half fill the potatoes, sprinkle a little grated cheese over, and bake 5 minutes. Baked Potatoes. Wash and peel the potatoes; if large, cut in half, put in dripping pan with plenty of beef dripping, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and bake a nice brown, turning occasionally. They require about 1 hour. Wlien mashing potatoes, to make them light and creamy, beat them well with a fork, adding a little hot milk. It is mixing them with cold milk that makes them stodgy and heavy. When frying potatoes, dredge a little flour over the potatoes be- fore frying, and they will cook much better and brown beautifully. Roast Potatoes. Scrub well. Prick all over. Bake 1 hour or till soft, or lay on grid shelf of gas oven and roast gently 30 or 40 minutes. Serve with salt butter. It is a good way to parboil the potatoes before roasting. This makes them crisper and more digestible. Pomme de Terre, au Gratis. Fill a Avell-buttered pie-dish with alternate layers of thinly- sliced potato and grated cheese. Dip each slice in a mixture of pepper, salt, and a little flour) add ^ teacupful of milk, and place a good-sized lump of butter on the top layer. Bake in a hot oven for 1 hour. Rice for Curry. 1 lb. Patna Rice, 4 quarts boiling Water, Salt to taste. Wa«h rice in cold water three times, rubbing gently without breaking it up, just before throwing it into the boiling water; stir gently from side to side—not to break it—often, and simmer gently untiryou can smash a grain between thumb and finger; then toss the whole into a colander and let it drain for a minute, stirring about