lOG TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. ndd them witli pepper and salt, and lastly the sage. Pour all into greased flat tin.; place on top 4 small pieces of butter. Bake 26 minutes. (!ut in squares, and serve with goose, pork, or any roast meat. Baked Batter Pudding: (1), 2 oz. loaf Sugar, 2 oz. Flour, 2 oz. melted Butter, i pint Milk, 2 Eggs. Beat the eggs, then add the butter, sugar, and flour; last, the milk. Bake in a smart oven for ^ hour. Baked Batter Pudding: (2). 2 tablespooiifuls Self-raising Flour, pinch of Salt, \ pint Milk, 2 Eggs, Put the flour and salt into a basin; drop in the yolks of the eggs, and add gradually the milk, giving it all a good beating. Then mix lightly in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Pour into a pie- dish, and bake in a modera'te oven for 40 minutes. Serve at once. Batter and Fruit Pudding: (3). 1 lb. Apples, 1 teacupful Sugar, 1 Egg, 6 oz. Flour, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, a pinch of Salt, a breakfastcupful of Milk. Grease a pudding basin well; fill with the apples after they have been peeled and cnt up, and sprinkle the sugar over tliem. Put into a basin the flour, salt, and baking powder; beat up the egg, and add the milk to it. Stir this gradually among the flour, mixing it quite smooth. Pour this batter over the fruit; cover the whole with a buttered paper, and steam gently or 2 hours. Or if the above is put into an ashet and baked for 1 hour in a hot oven it will be found to be very good. Batter for Fritters. 2 tablespoonfuls of Flour, a little Salt, 1 tablespoonful melted Butter or ■ Salad Oil, the white of 1 Egg. Add the butter to the flour, and mix it into a smooth batter, not too stiff. Whip the egg very stiff’ with a little salt, and lightly add it to the batter just before using. This can be used for any kind of fritter. Tinned fruit must be dried well in a cloth from the syrup. Bermuda Pudding. Crumble 4 oz. of stale sponge-cakes—or biscuits—into a bowl; pour ^ pint of boiling milk or cream over them, the cream having been previously sweetened. When this has soaked for hour, beat with a fork, and add slowly Jhwhisked eggs. Butter a mould, and line it with thin slices of preserved ginger ; then put in the pudding care- fully, without moving the ginger lining. Chver with paper, tie in a cloth, and place on a plate turned upside down in a saucepan, with enough water to reach to within 3 inches of the toj:>. Bird’s Nest Pudding. ^ packet gelatine soaked in 1 teacupful water. Bring to boil, add 2 spoonfuls red currant jelly and juice of a lemon and 1^ oz. sugar and a little cochineal. Soak ^ packet gelatine in 1 teacupful milk for | hour. Thin milk on the fire. Take the tops off 4 eggs (put yolks and whites aside for something else). Add sugar to white mixture. Put cochineal mixture into border mould. Turn out when firm on glass. Pour white mixture into 2 egg-shells, add yellow colouring for other eggs and cochineal for pink. Set egg-shells to firm, and then strip off shells and place in centre of jelly.