113 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Rose Custard. 1 pint Milk, 3 Eggs, i cupful Sugar, i pint Kaspberry Jnice, i teaspoonful Heat milk to boiling point and pour over beaten eggs. Add sugar and salt. Cool till lukewarm. Stir in juice and a few drops carmine if liked. Put in buttered mould. Place in boiling water in a basin and cook in oven till firm. Serve cold. Steamed Custard. 4 teaspoonfuls Plasmon, i pint Milk, 2 Eggs, Sugar. Dissolve Plasmon in milk as above, then add 2 beaten eggs. Pour into buttered mould and steam gently 20 minutes till custard is set. Date Pudding;. 1 breakfastcupful of Bread Crumbs, 3 lb. of Dates, J lb. Suet, 1 breakfast- cupful Milk, 1 teacupful I'lour, 2 Eggs, i lb. Sugar, Nutmeg. Remove the stones, and chop up the dates rather finely. Stew them with the milk for ^ hour. Put in a basin the bread, flour, and suet (finely minced), also the sugar and a little nutmeg, and mix well. Add the dates and milk, then the eggs (well beaten), and whisk all thoroughly up with a fork. Butter a basin or shape, and pour the pudding in. Place it in a saucepan containing a little boiling water, and steam for IJ hours. Serve with sweet sauce. The eggs may be omitted, and 1 teaspoonful baking powder added. Date Pudding^ (2). i lb. Suet, i lb. Flour, i lb. Browu Sugar, 1 lb. Dates, \ Nutmeg, grated. Chop suet finely, stone and cut up the dates, mix all well together, using as little water to moisten as possible. Boil in buttered basin 4 hours. Delhi Pudding. 3 tablespooufuls of Arrowroot, 14 oz sweet Almonds (pounded), 1 oz. Butter. Mix in ^ pint cold milk. Have ready 1 pint boiling milk (sweet- ened), pour over mixture, stir till thick, and place in mould till cold. Derby Pudding. Put a layer of jam into a buttered pie-dislt. Cover with stale sponge-cakes cut in fingers; add more jam and more cake till dish is nearly full. Make a boiled custard with the yolks of 2 eggs, ^ pint milk, and tablespoonful sugar. Flavour with vanilla, and pour over cakes. Let this soak 1 hour. Then whip the whites of the 2 eggs, add a very little sugar and vanilla. Spread over the top of puddings Place in a quick oven to slightly brown. Drumlanrig Pudding. Stew rhubarb with plenty water and sugar. Put into vour pudding dish a layer of bread, then pour on the hot rhubarb; then a layer of bread; then rhubarb, till the dish is full. Now put ashet on top, and set away for 24 hours in a cool place. This served cold with sugar and cream, on a hot summer day, is delicious. Raspberries, strawberries, and currants placed J inch thick in bottom of bowl may be treated in same manner. , , T, Economy Pudding. i lb. stale Bread Crumbs, 6 oz chopped Suet, 2 Eggs (beaten well), 1 spoouful brown Sugar, 2 large tablespoontuls of Preserve of any kind. _ Mix all thoroughly (with a little milk, if needed). Butter a basin, and boil or steam for 3 hours.