100 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Amber Puddingy (2). 4 large Apples (cooked), 2 oz. Butter, 1 Lemon, 3 Eggs, 3 oz. Sugar, Essence of Lemon. Beat yolks of eggs, butter, sugar, apples’ rind grated, juice of lemon, and flavouring well together ; and, lastly, whites of eggs. Line a pie-dish with puff paste and pour in mixture. Bake f hour. American Tart. Line an ashet with short paste. Mix 2 eggs, 1 large tablespoon- ful vinegar, 3 tablespooiifuls Denierara sugar. Beat all together. Pour over paste, and bake in quick oven. Sift sugar over when it is done. Ang^els’ Food (Chinese Dish). 2 lbs. bananas, cut in slices; take 4 oranges, peel, pick carefully into small sections, taking out pips; slice tinned pine apple; lay upon a dish ; sift over sugar ; pour over juice of pine apple, and serve. Apples in Batter. 4 apples peeled and sliced, 3 tablespoonfuls moist sugar. Make batter with 6 oz. flour, 2 eggs, and 1 pint milk. Pour over apples and sugar in pie-dish and bake 1 hour. (Apple) Bird’s EMest Pudding* (1). Apples, Sugar, 1 tablespoouful EJour, J pint Milk, 1 Egg. Pare and core apples. Fill cavity with sugar. Pour over batter made with one tablespoonful flour, ^ pint milk, one egg, and sugar to taste. Bake 1 hour. (Apple) Bird’s IMest Pudding (2). Apples to be pared and cored, and fllled with sugar and a little cinnamon. Place a tiny bit of butter on each. Fill pudding dish with a cup of raw tapioca or sago, mixed with sugar and grated lemon rind. Place in the apples, and fill up with water, and bake 2 hours in moderate oven. Apple and Bread Crumbs. 6 large Apples, 1 Lemon, i lb. Bread Crumbs, 2 oz. Butter, 2 oz. .Sugar. Butter a pie-dish; pare and chop apples fine. Place a layer of bread crumbs, then apples and sugar, and grated lemon rind and juice, alternately, till dish is full, finishing with bread crumbs. Place butter on top; and bake \ hour. Turn out and serve with sweet sauce. OR, Butter pie-dish. Place layer of bread crumbs and thinly-sliced apple till nearly full. Dissolve a breakfastcup sugar and a teaspoonful cinnamon in 1 pint boiling water and pour over. Let it stand ^ hour to swell, then bake till brown—almost ^ hour. Apple Charlotte. 2 lbs. Apples, 4 lb. Sugar, riucl of Lemon (grated). Bread, i oz. Butter, 1 gill Water. Peel and slice apples, and stew with sugar and water and lemon rind for an hour or more, until reduced to half the quantity. Cut slices of crumb of bread ^ inch thick, either round or in devices, and laid overlapping one another. Butter a mould and line it with these slices, dipped first in the melted butter; then pour apples in and cover with more bread, and bake f hour. Then turn out carefully on dish, and brown for a few minutes in oven.