TRIED FAVOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. 19 pieces. Melt butter in pan, stir flour in smoothly, add pepper, salt, and milk by degrees. Stir till boiling, boil 3 minutes, then add cream, oysters, lemon rind and juice; add cod fish, and cool 2 or 3 minutes, turned out on plate. When quite cold divide into 9 pieces, form into long fingers, using two knives, and a little flour to keep from sticking to knife. (If you use too much flour, mixture wiU burst.) Cover with beaten egg, roll in bread ci-umbs, and fiy in boiling fat. Curried Fish. 2 lbs. Cod, or other Fish, 1 Onion, i pint Stock, 1 teaspoonful Lemon Juice, 2 07,. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, i tablespoonful Cxirry Powder, Salt, a dust of Sugar, 1 tablespoonful Cocoanut. Fiy the fish in the buttei-, remove it, then fiy the onion brown; add the curry and fry slightly, then add cocoanut, stock, sugar, and salt, and boil 15 minutes; divide the fish into large flakes, add to curry, and boil 5 minutes, then add lemon juice. Fish Custard. li lb. filleted Haddocks, 1 dessertspoonful Flour, 1 teaspoonful Butter, 1 Egg, 1 teacup Milk, Pepper and Salt. Cut fish into pieces and place in a pie dish. Sprinkle pepper and salt over it, then mix in a bowl 1 dessertspoonful flour, teaspoon- ful buttei’ (melted), 1 egg well beaten, 1 teacupful milk. Pour this mixture over fish and pvjt in a moderate oven for 35 minutes. (Hali- but us good with a squeeze of lemon juice over.) OR, Grease a small ashet, and completely cover with fresh, filleted haddocks; tlien strew the fish thickly with bread crumbs. Beat an egg, and add to it a teacup of new milk and a little salt; pour over the fish, and put a few small bits of butter on the top. Bake \ hour in quick ovein Fish Cutlets. 1 cup Cooked Fish, 2 Eggs, 1 tablespoonful Flour, 1^ oz. Butter, a little Nutmeg, Pepper and Salt, a small teacupful Fish Stock or Milk. Break fish up, and see there are no bones. Put flour aJid butter in pan; add milk, seasoning, and egg, keeising back a little egg; add it teaspoonful anchovy paste, pinch cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Bring to the boil, and boil 3 minutes. Lay out on flat plate to cool. Cut into 5 or 7 pieces. Flour a little, and form into cutlets on slightly- floured board with knife and finger, turning about. It gets firm if it stands a little. Brush over with egg. Toss in bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat. Put a little fish bone at end of cutlet when cooked, and garnish with parsley. ^ Fricassee of Fish. Beat some smoothly mashed potatoes with a little millv and butter till it is light and creamy, season with salt and pepper, and add the stiffly whisked white of an egg. Turn the potato on to a sheet of buttered paper and mould it into a round case; smooth with a knife which has been dipped in hot water, and after brushing it over with the yolk of an egg bake in a quick oven till the potato is browned. Put some milk into a pan with a slice of onion and a small blade of mace, and after it has boiled let it simmer 10 minutes. Cook some butter and flour (1 ounce of each to pint milk) together for a feav minutes without letting them become in the least brown, then pour in