80 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Cherry Sauce. i lb. dried Cherries, 2 oz. Sugar, a few drops Cochineal, J pint Water. Boil sugar and water for ten minutes; drop in cherries, and boil till tender. Rub through sieve, and add a few drops. cochineal if required. Chesti^ut Forcemeat. 1 small Onion, 1 teaspoonful chopped. Parsley, 1 dozen Chestnuts, 2 oz. - Butter, 1 tablespoonful grated Ham, the Liver of a Turkey or Fowl, Salt, Pepper, and dust of Mace. Roast a.nd peel the chestnuts, pound them, add the onion, parsley and ham minced, the mace, seasoning and butter. Mix well, and use for turkey, fowl, etc. Chocolate Sauce. 2 oz. Chocolate (Cadbury’s), 2 teaspoonful Sugar, IJ gills Milk, \ pint Cream, i teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Boil the milk, mix smoothly with the chocolate grated, I'eturn to the jjan, boil gently 5 minutes, add vanilla, sugar and cream whipped. Chutney (1). A. —4 lb. Apples, 2 lb. brown Sugar, B. —2 lb. Sultanas, 4 oz. green Ginger, or 2 oz. ground Do., 4 oz. Garlic, i oz. Cayenne, 1 quart Vinegar. Boil A to the consistency of jam, after paring and coring the apples. Chop the raisins and garlic fine, and add them and all of B to the apples, and boil 10 minutes longer. Pour the whole into a jar, and, while hot, mix well with the vinegar, adding salt to taste. Bottle when cold. Chutney (2). lb. Brown Sugar, 2| Apples (minced), 1 lb. Sultanas (minced), i lb. sweet Almonds, ^ oz. Onions, 2J oz. Salt, i oz. Ground Ginger, 14 quarts Vine- gar, a little Cayenne Pepper Mix, and boil 3 hours. Indian Chutney. 1 lb. best Raisins (stoned), 1 lb. Tamarinds (stoned). 3 oz. Garlic (peeled). Mince all these to a very fine pulp. 3 lbs. Sour Apples, 1 lb. Coarse Sugar, 2 quarts Brown Vinegar, i lb Salt, 1 oz. Cayenne Pepper, 2 oz. Ground Ginger. 3 oz. Mustard. Boil apples in 1 quart of the vinegar until it forms a syrup. Wlien quite cold, mix to^gether the whole of the other ingredients Avith a Avooden spoon, put into Avide-moutlied jars and cork firmly. Clarified Butter. Put lb. fresh butter in pan, stand over a voiy little heat, boil very gently, skimming Avell, until it looks like a clear salad oil, pour veiy carefully into a sauceboat, keeping back the sediment. Seiwe with boiled fish, artichokes, asparagus, etc. Curry Sauce. Cut an onion in thin rings, fry in butter a light brown, add table- spoonful cuiTy poAvder. Fiy a minute, then add 1 tin of tomato con- serve, 12 cloves, 6 cardamon seeds, 3 bay leaves, a sprig of tarragon, 3 cloves of garlic shred fine. Stir and boil all for a fcAv minutes; if too thick add a little Avater, then strain it to be readA^ for use. Custard Sauce. Heat ^ pint milk in saucepan, and add 2 eggs well beaten, or 2 yoUts and 1 Avhite, and sugar to taste. Mix and stir over fire till it begins to thicken, but not to lx>il. Flavour’,