30 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. insid0; roll o\it the small piece, and put it on top; tie in a pudding cloth, and boil for 3 hours. This is very appetising and economical. Cold Beef and Tomato Pie. 4 small Tomatoes, i lb. cold Boiled Beef, 1 Egg, Parsley, i gill Stock, Pepper and Salt. Cut tomatoes into slices, and beef into neat small pieces, remov- ing skin and gristle. Arrange in alternate layers, and pour over beaten egg, mixed with stock, like custard (not too full). Dish is lined round sides with pastry, edges being well covered, and strips of paste arranged diagonally over top. Then cover edge all round and mark neatly. Glaze with egg or milk, and bake f hour. Devilled Beef. Take a few slices from cold Boast Beef; a tablespoonful of Mustard, a pinch of Salt, a little Worcestershire Sauce, and a teacupful of Water. Mix these to a cream ; spread over the beef; broil before a clear fire; a few drops of strong gravy iDoured round the base. Fillet of Beef. Cut some fillet of beef into rounds 1 in. thick and 2^ in. in diameter. Beat well. Sprinkle with pepper and salt and fry, turn- ing constantly. When coolced, i^lace neatly cm a dish, brush with glaze and sprinkle thickly Avith fried parsley, and, if liked, horse radish. Fillet of Beef shoidd not be over-cooked, but served Avith centre of meat red and juicy. Fillet of Beef with Mushroom. Cut 1 lb. fillet in rounds 1 in. thick and 3 in. diameter. Cook in front of clear fire or on grid; a piece of fat under and above each round fillet keeps it juicy. When cooked, place them on rounds of tomato slightly fried, and on top of each fillet, one large fried mush- room, with a ball of green butter in the centre of each mushroom. Place on hot dish, in the centre of which is a pur^e of spinach. \ \ Fillet of Beef (a la creme). Get fillet of roasting beef ] i-emove fat and skin. Sprinkle over pepper and a little salt. SkeAver it into nice shape, and lard it with fat bacon. Place it on baking tin; jDlace over meat a large piece of butter, and cook it slowly in the oven, basting frequently. lb. beef takes half-an-hour to cook). When ready, pour off fat, and pour round beef 1 gill cream. Place tin on slow fire to heat cream thoroughly, and baste meat with it. Place meat on dish with cream round it. Cream will be a pale brownish colour, because of the fat wdrich adhered to tin, and because of basting meat. Cold Roast Beef. Beef should be cut in slices, the gravy brought to boiling point, and the slices dipped in just long enough to heat. SteAving toughens it, unless gently simmered 1 hour. Pressed Beef. 5 or 6 lb. B&ef, thick flank, pickled; Mixed Vegetables. Glaze, Aspic Jelly. If the beef has been long in pickle, Avash it, put into a pan of cold Avater, bring to the boil and skim ; add a feAv sliced vegetables, and simmer slowly about 2 hours. Lift out, remove bone, press Avith a weight on top. When quite cool wipe off greaso, and cover with