7RIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 44 Spanish Stew. 1 Rabbit, jointed, \ lb. Bacon, 2 Spanish Onions, ^ teaspoonful Savoury Herbs, i teaspoonful Pepper, 1 do. Salt, i pint Water. Cut ham, place half of it in .small slices in bottom of pan. Slice one onion thinly over. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt, then rabbit. Dredge flour over, then savoury herbs, the second onion and ham. Pour over | pint hot water. Put lid tightly on, and stew very slowly 2 hours. Boiled Turkey. Put into boiling water-, simmer slowly 1^ hours, or more, accord- ing to size of bird. Cover with a good w'hite sauce made from the water in which the turkey has been boiled. Leave white, or garnish with parsley or hard-boiled yolk of egg passed through a sieve. Cel- ery sauce may be served with this dish. Roast Turkey. Forcemeat, 1 to 2 lbs. Sausages, 1 pint Stock made from Giblets, \ lb. Fat Bacon, i oz. Flour, Salt, Pepper. Prepare and dress turkey, fill the loose skin of the breast with the forcemeat, skewer down and cover with fat bacon or greased paper. Roast slowly, allowing 10 or 12 minutes to the pound. About ^ hour before it is done, remove the bacon or paper, and hang over it the sausages. When done, pour the fat from' the tin, add the flour, and stock, and seasoning. Boil up, add browning if necessary, and strain. Garnish turkey with the sausages, and serve with, bread sauce. \ Turkey Rechauffe. Use 2 cupfuls of chopped parsley. Make sauce with cupful each of butter and flour, milk and stock, and J teaspoonful of salt. Mix and beat 3 cupfuls of mashed potatoes, 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 3 beaten egg yolks, and a little salt. Strain. Make potato rolls round the dish, and fill centre with layers of meat and sauce. Cover with bread crumbs, and brown. Turkey Rissoles. Mince very fine any white meat left from cooked turkey or chicken, with a fourth part of lean ham or tongue; add a quarter of the weight of meat, in fine bread crumbs, an onion which has been boiled in three waters till it is quite mild and finely chopped, a slice of butter melted, pepper, salt and nutmeg. Bind all with well-beaten egg. Cut out puff paste into any form ; put a teaspoonful of the meat into each rissole; brush over with egg, and dip in fine crumbs. Fry brown, and garnish with fried parsley.