69 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY KOOK. VEGETARIAN DISHES. sprinkle a liltle sail on the boltoni pf the frying-pan and the fat will not splash the stove or grate when frying meat, sausages, &c. Bread Steaks. Bread is cut about ^ inch thick into any shape preferred, the crust being removed. Tlie pieces are first dipped in milk—not soaked —and then in beaten egg, and fried with butter until brown. The beaten egg may be flavoured witli parsley, thyme, or other herb. Another variation is the use of ketcluip diluted with water, instead of milk, in which to dip the bread. This gives a savoury omelet. Pieces of bread may also bo prepared as above, then rolled in bread crumbs and fried in boiling fat. Dish in a ring, with fried onions, tomatoes, or mushrooms in the centre. Canadian Tomatoes. Take the tomatoes out of the tin carefully, pour hot water over them and skin them. Put these into a saucepan with their juice, some butter, pepper, salt, a tiny pinch of carbonate of soda, and enough bread crumbs to make it stiff, and servo hot. Dish of Carrots. Cook. Cut in dice wlien cold. Melt in pan a tablespoonful butter, add ^ teaspoon salt, saltspoon pepper, and teaspoon sugar, and when butter boils put in carrots, and stir till heated through. Pile in centre of dish with French beans round, whicli have been cooked in only 1 tablespoon water, teaspoon sugar, tablespoon butter, i teaspoon salt and pepper. Excellent dish, and substantial as meat. Cutlets, Lentil. 1 lb. Lentils, 1 large Onion, 1 Beetroot, 2 Eggs, 1 tablespoon chopped Parsley, 1 teaspoon Thyme, i teacup Ketchup, 1 oz. Butter, Pepper and Salt. Soak the lentils over night; juit the,m in a saucepan, with suffi- cient water to cover them, and stew gently till tender. Boil the beet- root whole, and cut it in small pieces); chop the onion, and iry it. Then mix all the ingredients togetlier, and put them aside until quite cool; then mould into shaiaes the size of a cutlet; brush them with beaten egg; dip them in fine bread crumbs, and fry in boiling oil. Stuffed Lentils or Vegfetable Turkey. 1 lb. Lentils, Egg, Bread Crumbs, Butter, Parsley, Salt. Boil thoroughly 1 lb. lentils (or half peas and lentils) in a cloth with a little salt. Oil an enamelled dish, and line bottom and sides with the lentils. Prepare a stuffing of bread crumbs, parsley, eggs, &o., the same as for turkey. Fill up the dish with the stuffing, and cover with the rest of the lentils. Put a few pieces of butter on the top, and bake 45 minutes to an hour. Serve hot. Cutlets, Mushroom. 2 lb. tin mushrooms (minced fine), 2 well-beaten eggs, 4 ounces of grated bread crumbs, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Stir the whole smooth. Mould into small flat cutlets; dip these in egg and bread crumbs; fry in butter or hot vegetable oil till brown.