TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Potted Meat. i lb. lean cooked Veal or Chicken, i lb. cpokecl lean Ham. Mince these and put them into a mortar Avith \ lb. buttei, a little cayenne pepper, and a tablespoonful of Burgess essence of anchovies. Pound them well together and press into a mould, and cover over with melted butter. Potted Meat. 3 lb. Beef (round), 2 tablespoonfuls Anchovy Sauce, i tumblerful cold Water, Salt and Pepper to taste, i lb. Salt Butter. ... . , ,, Cut up the meat into 5 or 6 pieces, and put it in jar witn tlie water. Let it simmer for 5 liours. Then put through mincer, and mix well the ingredients together, leaving out as much butter as will cover the top of the jars. Melt the butter and pour over. Savoury Roll Pudding. , „ , i lb. Flour, J lb. Suet, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, Pepper and Salt to taste, nearly a cup of Water, and J lb. Mince. Sift the flour with baking powder; add the suet, finely shred, pepper and salt, and mix to a firm dough with cold water; roll out as for ordinary roly-poly. Break up the mince with some cold water till it will spread easily over the paste. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and, if liked, a little chopped onion. Wet the edges; roll up; 'tie in a well-floured cloth; and plunge into boiling water; and boil for 2 hours. Rissoles. Equal Meat and Potatoes, Pepper and Salt, 1 tablespoonful Ketchup, Yolk of Egg, 1 teaspoonful Parsley, do. Savoury Herbs. Squeeze all with your hands.. If not moist enough, add another yolk. Flour, egg, bread-cnimb, and fiy in boiling fat. Sausage Potatoes. i lb. Sausages, 2 lb. cooked Potatoes, i pint Milk (about), Salt and Pepper, a few sprigs Parsley, Dripping. Prick the sausages, and steam or simmer them in \ pint of boiling w'ater about 20 minutes, then skin and cut them in two. Mash the potatoes (which are better warm), and beat with a wooden spoon until very light, adding enough milk to moisten them. Take a spoonful of the potato, lay a piece of sausage on it, cover* with potato, leaving it quite rough; put in a greased baking tin, and bake about 20 minutes. They should be nicely browned, then put a sprig of parsley in each one. Sausage Roll. 1 lb. raw Beef (sliced), 1 lb. Ham, 1 breakfastcup Bread Crumbs, 1 teaspoon black Pepper, 1 pinch Cayenne do., 1 teaspoon Salt, 1 dessertspoon Vinegar, 1 dO'. Ketchup, 2 Eggs. Mince the beef and ham, and add the bread crumbs and season- ings ; beat the egg slightly, and moisten the mixture well with the hand. Foi*m into a roly-poly shajre. Have ready a pudding cloth wrung out of hot water ; dust with flour ; tie the roll into it; place on a plate in a pan of boiling water to boil for 2^ hours. When cool, dust with bread crumbs (browned). Bird’s Nest Sausages. i lb. Vermicelli, Sausages, Parsley, Eggs. Cook vermicelli in frying basket in boiling fat. Have some hard- boiled eggs, one for every sausage. Remove shells. Skin sausages.