118 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. paste; add filling ; wet edges ; cover, and bake in quick oven 25 min- utes. Sufficient for 3 or -1 pies. Lemon Cheese Pudding. Grate the rind of 2 large lemons; strain the juice and pulp of both through a sieve. Put to it 6 oz. sugar, \ lb. butter, and 5 eggs, well beaten and mixed. Line a dish with a thin paste, and bake it. Lemon Mering^ue Pudding;. Break up a thick slice of bread in 1 pint of milk; boil in sauce- pan until soft. Then beat up the yolks of 2 eggs, and the grated rind of 1 lemon. Mix these with the bread and milk, beat together, put all the mixture in pie-dish, and bake about 20 minutes. Then take out of oven, and leave to cool. Whisk the whites of the eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar and the juice of 1 lemon, and when the pudding has become cool pour the whisked mixture on the top of pudding, and jdace in oven to brown about 5 minutes. May be served hot or cold. Lemon Pudding; (1). 5 lb. of Bread Criimb.s, lb. each of Moist Sugar and finely chopped Suet, 2 tablespoonfuls Flour, the rind and juice of 2 Lemons, a little New Milk, and a toaspoonful of Bird's Concentrated Egg Powder. The lemon peel should be well grated or finely minced, and the juice strained. Mix the bread crumbs, flour, suet, sugar, lemon peel and juice, and the egg powder. Then reduce to the consistency of a very stiff batter with milk. Put into a well-buttered mould or basin, tie over securely with a cloth, and boil for 3 hours. When turned nut the pudding should have some sifted sugar sprinkled over it. Oranges may be substituted for the lemoils. Serve with custard. Lemon Pudding; (2). 4 oz. grated Bread, A oz. Castor Sugar, 4 oz. Suet, the Juice of a Lemon and the Peel grated. Mix all together with the yolks of 3 and the whites of 2 egg.s, well beaten. Boil for hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Lemon Rice. Boil sufficient rice, with sugar to taste, to fill mould, and leave till cold. Peel a lemon very thick; cut peel into shreds about 1 or f inch long. Put into a little water; boil them up, and throw water away lest it be bitter; then pour about teacupful fresh water on them; squeeze and strain juice of lemon, add it with white sugar to water and shreds, and let it stew gently for 2 hours. When cold, it will be a syrup. Having turned out jellied rice into glass dish, pour syrup gradually over rice, taking care that little shreds of peel be equally distributed over whole. London Pudding;. i lb. of Apricot Jam, 7 sponge finger Biscuits, i tablespoonful of Flour. I oz. of Butter, i pint of Milk, 1 Lemon, 2 Eggs. Line a pudding dish with puff paste, then sjmead thick layer of apricot; then a layer of sponge biscuits. Mix together ^ tablespoon- ful of flour and 1 oz. of butter. Boil h pint of milk, and pour it on the flour and butter. Add sugar to taste, and the grated rind of a lemon. Stir over the fire till as thick as cream, then cool a little. .Add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and beat all well together. Then