TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Ill Cocoa.-nwt Puddingr. 2 pints Milk, 3 Llifgs. 2 ox. Sugnr, 4 tnblespoonfnls dessicated Cocoa-nut, 1 tnblospoonful CcTiiilour. , i . i Boil half the milk and pour it over the cocoa-nut, and let it soak hour. Mix cornflour, with the other pint of cold milk, add sugar, and boil 5 minutes; then stir in the soaked cocoa-nut, and when cool add the eggs, well beaten, and bake in a buttered dish for hour. Coburgf Pudding-. 1 lb. Flour, 3 oz. Butter, i lb. Currants, 2 oz. Castor Sugar, 3 Eggs, i pint Milk. ' Rub butter with flour, add sugar and currants. Mix. Arid beaten eggs and then milk. Mix well. Grease some cups or small moulds and fill J full. Cook 12 minutes, rurn out on ashet, and pour round jam sauce. Croquets au Confiture. Swell out d oz. rice in milk till very soft and all the milk is absorbed. Add 2 beaten eggs and spread out on plate to cool. Then form into round balls. Make a hole in the centre and fill with jam. Close up and roll balls in egg and lu'ead crumbs and fry in hot lard. Dish in pyramid and sprinkle sifted sugai' ovel'. Serve hot. Cumberland Pudding. 2 oz. Flour, 2 oz. Sugar, 1 oz. Blitter, 2 Eggs, 1 pint Milk, rind of l,einon, Salt. Put flour, sugar, butter, and grated lemon peel, and pinch of .‘•alt into a basin before the fire till 'butter is melted. Mix well with wooden spoon, pour in a little boiling milk, stir till (piite smooth, then add gradually the rest of milk. When neaily cold, add eggs well beaten. Bake in buttered dish in moderate oven 1 hour. Cup Pudding (American). 3 Eggs, weight in Sugar and Flour, i their weight in Butter, 3 tablespoon- fuls Milk, teaspoonful Baking Powder. Put butter and sugar in warm basin (not too hot) and beat till mixture looks like cream. Then separate yolks and whites of the eggs. Drop the yolks into the basin one at a time, beating each time till quite light. Then add the milk, and mix wMl. Now beat the wliites quite stiffly and stir in gently. ^ All well-greased moulds or cups, and bake about,20 minutes. Serve with lemon or jam sauce. Custard in Cups. Mix I'i breakfastcupful milk, 1 oz. rice flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, and 1 stick cinnamon. Bring to the boil, take out cinnamon ancl pour over 4 beaten eggs, stirring all the time. Add a few drops lemon or vanilla essence, put again in pan and stir over fire till it nearly boils. Take it off and pour again into the basin. Give it an occasional stir while it cools. Pour into glasses, or cups, and shake a very little ground cinnamon over the top. Custard without Eggs. 1 pint of new Milk or Cream, 2 O’Z. (or else 11 or 12 lumps) of Sugar, and 1 packet* of Bird^s Custard Powder. Out of a pint of new milk or cream take just sufficient to make the contents of the packet into a thin, smooth paste when well mixed in a basin ; then boil the remainder of the milk or cream with tire sugar, and, while still thoroughly boiling, pour it all at once into the