215 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. To Keep Oi'a.ng'es and Lemons. Take small sand and make it very dry. Put into clean vessel when cold, place a layer of fruit in, not letting them touch each other, and tlie stalk end down. Strew in sand to cover them two inches deep. Set vessel in cool place, and you will find fruit in high preservation at end of several months. Lemons keep a long time covered with cold wat;er. Peel, divide, and stew sour oiranges in syrup. Nothing nicer. Meat Seasoning:. Extremely useful to keep ready mixed for seasonings, meat pies, rissoles, hash, &c. Ingredients:—1 lb. salt, 1 oz. white pepper, ^ oz. ground mace, 1 large nutmeg (grated), and 1 saltspoonful of cayenne. Mix, pass thiX)ugh a sieve, and keep in a well-corked bottle in a dry place. To Mix Mustard for Table Use. Place, according to requirements, 1 or 2 dessertspoonfuls of Keen’s D.S.F. Mustard into a cup or vessel; add a little water, and thoroughly incorporate by continuous stirring until a perfectly smooth paste, of sufficient thickness to fall slowly from a spoon, has been formed. Mustard is better if mixed in small quantities every day. Frersch Mustard. Put on plate 1 oz. best powdered mustard, 1 saltspoon salt, a few leaves tarragon, and 1 clove of garlic minced fine. Pour on it by de- grees sufficient vinegar to dilute to proper consistency, about ^ gill. Mix vdth wooden spoon, and don’t use it in less than 24 hours. German Mustard. 8 teaspoonfuls Mustard, 4 do. Salt, 4 do. Castor Sugar, 4 do. melted Butter, 1 saltspoon Cayenne, juice of a raw Onion, and enough Malt Vinegar to make the requisite consistency. Mix thoroughly, put into little jars, cork and seal. Will keep fresh and good for 12 months. Nasturtium Seeds. (SunSTITUTB FOR CaPBRS.) i pint Vinegar, Salt, 1 teaspoouful Peppercorns. Gather seeds before too old, put in salt and water 24 hours, then rub dry and put in bottle. Boil vinegar and peppercorns and strain it. When cold put in bottles with nasturtiums, adding more as they are ready; afterwards seal bottles. Will keep a year. Oatmeal Porridg:e. Put a saucepan on the fire with water proportionate to the quan- y o porridge required. Just before it comes to the boiling point begin sprinkling in-the meal regularly with the left hand, while you stir with a ‘porridge-stick” with the other. In this consists the art ol porridge-makmg, as on its being well done depends the absence of smoothness and appearance when dished.. Stir till quite through the boil. Boil 10 minutes, then add the salt and boil 10 mmiites longer. It is best not to put the salt in till the end of 0 minutes, M it has a tendency to harden the meal and prevent its billy expanding, so that the quality of the porridge is deteriorated, 1 uttmg the meal in just before the water comes through the boil and