IRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 12 mainder of flour into l)utter; add pepper, sa.lt, ketchup, sauce, and stock by degrees. Stir till boiling, and boil 3 minutes. Ijet sauce cool a little, then put ])igeons back. If put in when hot, pigeons would bo tough and indigestible. Sininier very gently till quite tender. Put mushrooms on small baking tin, season with pepi>ea' and salt, and put oA'^er each musln'oom a small piece of butter. Bake hour, and 10 minutes before sei'ving add to pigeons. Put pigeons in centre of dish, with mushrooms round. Garnish with lemon and parsley. Stewed Pigeon. Roll piece of butter size of egg in flour, popper, and salt, and place inside pigeon. Place a bed of vegetables in pan, lay in pigeon and simmer 1 hour. Put pigeon on tin, dust flour over and bi'own before fire or in oven. Strain sauce from vegetables. Add teaspoon- ful ketchup, pepper, and salt. Serve on toast. Pigeons or Partridges (to be eaten cold). PreiDare as for roasting. Season the inside, and jiut in a lump of butter. Put into a jar wdth some pale-coloured stock reduced to a jelly, and more seasoning according toi taste, Avith about \ lb. of butter to each bird. Tie your jar closely down, and put it in the oven for an hour or longer, until the bii'ds are tender. They should be covered Avith the stock and butter. Do not unco'ver the jar till the birds are Avanted; then theA' Avill keep for several days. Garnish Avith jelly and parsley. Cream of Rabbit. Put rabbit into stoAvpan, Avith some butter only. Cook for about 20 minutes, turning it over frequently to prevent it getting IjroAvii. Then pick the meat off the bones, and pound it Avell in a mortar, and pass through a sieve (wire). Then mix in ]iint of cream, Avith pepjier, salt, and nutmeg to taste, and add a sniall (piantity of melted gelatine. Put into a mould and steam 1 hniM-. Do not turn out till cold. Sauce may be made from the bones of rabbit, Avell seasoned, with a little gelatine (dissolved) tO' stiffen it. Garnish Avith aspic jelly and 2^<'U‘sloy. Rabbit Stewed (Whole). Take a good-sized i’abl>it, and Avash avoII ; take out the liver and mince it sniall; ^larboil a large onion, mince and add to the liver. , TaJce enough oatmeal or bread crumbs, according tO' taste, to' stuff the rabbit, mix Avith the onion and liver, and add enough hot drijqAing to make the ingredients adhere to each other. Stuff the ]iaunch, soav iqi, and stcAv gently for 2 hours. This is also e.xcellent roasted, but must be frequently basted. Rabbit Patties. Make panada Avith 1 oz. flour, and 1 oz. butter, and 1 gill milk, cooked OA^er fire till smooth. Season Avith pepjier and salt. Add chopjAed rabbit, about -1 tablesjAoonfuls', and 1 tablesjioonful cream. Make some jiastry jritties. Fill iqi and jiut tiny lid of jiastiw on each. Rabbit Pie. 1 young Eabbit, lb. fat Bacon, about 1 breakfastcupful of Stock or Water, 1 teaspoonful Salt, ^ tea&pooiiful Avbite Pepper, J te' spoonful poAv^dered Mace, a bit of Puff Paste made from 3 ounces Butter and 6 ounces Flour. Cut the rabbit into' 10 or 12 jiieces, Avash Avell in salted Avater, and dry. SjAlit the head, and place in a small pan along Avith the