TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 109 Carrot Pudding:. 1 breakfastcupful grated Carrots, do. Bread Crumbs, do. minced Suet, do. cleaned Currants, do. chopped Raisine, do. Flour, do. Milk, pinch of Salt, and about i teaspoonful Soda. Boil 3 or 4 hours, the longer the better. Castel House Pudding:. 1 lb. Flour, 4 lb. Suet. 1 lb. Eaisins, 2 Eggs, about 4 pint of Milk, 1 table- spoonful of Vinegar, 1 small teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, a pinch of Salt, <l tablespooiifuls brown Sugar. Boil 4 hours. 1 lb. of figs, chopped very finely, may be sub- stituted for raisins. Castie Pudding:. i lb. Flour, 4 lb. Butter, 4 lb. Sugar, 3 Eggs, grated rind of Lemon. Beat butter to cream, add sugar, lemon peel, and -eggs (|well beaten). Mix all well, stir in flour gradually. Butter some darioles or cups, put in mixture f full, bake in moderate oven 1 liour. Serve with sweet sauce. Cheese Tarts. 4 lb. Floxir, 4 lb. Butter, pinch Salt, cold Water to form stiff dough. Turn out on well-floured board; cut out some rounds for pastry tins, and put a piece of crust of bread in each while baking a nice brown. Take out of oven and fill with cheese mixture. For mixture —^ oz. butter, 1 gill or teacupful milk, | oz. flour, 2 yolks of eggs and white®, salt and cayenne pepper to taste, 2 oz. grated cheese, and a pinch of carbonate of soda. Melt butter in pan, then add flour, and cook for a few minutes ; add milk. Stir till it boils thick and smooth. Take off fire, and add yolks, salt, pepper, and cheese. Whip whites to stiff froth, and add last. When cases are baked crisp and dry, take out crust of bread, and put a spoonful of mixture in each. Bake in oven till golden and hard to touch. Sprinkle a little dry cheese over each, and serve hot. Cherry Pudding:. 2 Eggs, their weight in Sugar, Butter, and Flour, 4 oz. Paisley Flour, 4 lb* GlacS Cherries. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs, then flour, in which Paisley flour has been mixed. Beat well. Butter some dariole moulds, place in some cherries and fill | full of the mixture. Bake about 20 minutes in a steady oven. Turn out and serve with whipped cream. Cherry Pudding: (2). 2 oz. Flour, 4 lb. Bread Crumbs, 4 lb. Sugar, 4 lb. dried Cherries, 2 oz. Butter, 1 pint Milk, 3 Eggs, rind of 1 Lemon, 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla. Add the butter to the flour over a gentle heat; add the milk, and stir till boiling; pour over the bread crumbs, lemon rind and sugar. Beat up the eggs, and add them to the vanilla and cherries. Pour in a well-buttered mould, with cherries stuck at the bottom. Cover with buttered paper, and steam for 1^ hours. Serve with cherry sauce. Cherry Cream Pudding:. 4 oz. Gelatine, 4 pint Milk, White of 1 Egg, 4 pint Cream, 2 oz. Preserved Cherries, 2 oz. Castor Sugar. Soak gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it about 15 minutes, and then dissolve slowly over fire with the sugar. Strain into a bowl, and when a little cool, add a few drops vanilla or almond es.'sence