169 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Rose Cake. i lb. Flour, i lb.[Sugar, i II). Butter, 8 Eggs, 1 teaspconful Baking Powder, i lb. Citron Peel, some crystallised Rose Leaves, 1 dessertspoonful Bose Flower Water. Rub butter in flour. Beat yolks and sugar till white and creamy. Whip whites to stiff froth; add yolks and sugar to flour and butter. Mix well; add whites, mix again. Add frait and baking powder and flavouring. Put into well-greased tin. Place in rose leaves along with mixture and bake in good oven. Rosina Cake. 1 lb. Sugar, 1 lb. Sultanas, i lb. Rice Flour, i lb. Flour, 6 oz. Butter, 4 Eggs, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, 1 oz. Ginger, Cinnamon, and Cloves, Nut- meg to taste. Melt the sugar and butter in pint boiling milk. Mix the other ingredients, and stir in gradually. Beat up eggs well, and mix in last . Bake with buttered paper in tins, and leave in tins till almost cold. Sandwich Cake. Fill three tins—one with mixture as it is, one pale pink (cochineal added), one chocolate (add 2 ok. grated, Oadbury’s or Fry’s.) 5 Eggs, i lb. fine Sugar, i weight Eggs in Flour—5 oz. (an ordinary egg weighs 2 oz.—take 5 oz. for this). Put eggs and sugar in basin and beat with wliisk for ^ hour. Must have mixture thiclv. Wiether it takes 10 minute.s or ^ hour depends on vigour of whisking. Now stir in flour. Add flavouring. Grease tins well and roll a little flour round. Tliis lielps them to turn out. Stir in very lightl3^ Always a succe.ss if vei’y quickly cooked—8 min- utes ; even 5. If longer than J hour, never nice. Only All f full, as mixture rises much. Filling for C'ake. i lb. Icing Sugar (sent through sieve), 1 white of Egg, 2 oz. dessicated Cocoa-nut, colour a very pale pink—2 or 3 drops Cocliineal. Beat sugar and white of egg well with a little lemon juice, Avhich helps colour and takes away sickening taste of so much sugar. Spread over one cake. Place other on top. Spread more icing over, and place third cake over. Ice top. Add dessicated cocoarnut, or col- oured pink sugar, and sprinkle cocoa-nut over. Keep back a little sugar to sprinkle over. Scotch Currant Bun. Take breakfastcupfuls of flour; rub into it { lb. butter or dripping and ^ teaspoonful bakiug powder. Mix it to a firm paste with water; roll it out into a thin sheet. Grease the inside of a cake pan, and line it neatly with the paste, reseiwing a piece the size of the pan for the top of the bun. Now put together in a large basin 1 lb. flour, ^ lb. sugar, 2 lb. large blue raisins (stoned), 2 lb. currants, (well washed, dried and picked), lb. orange peel, J lb. almonds, | oz. ginger, ^ oz. powdered cinnamon, oz. Jamaica pepper, ^ teaspoonful black pepper, 1 small teaspoonful carbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, and 1 breakfastcupful of milk to moisten it, or just as much as will merely moisten it all. Mix thoroughly together with the hands, and put the mixture into the lined tin. Make it flat on the top, wet the edges round, and put on the lid of paste. Prick it all over with a fork, brash it with, a little egg, and put in oven for 3 hours. This makes ai large, rich bun, at vei-y little expense. Tire sooner made before Christmas the better, as it improves with keeping.