TRJED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 4 Celery Soup. 1 head Celery, 1 piece of Butter (size of an egg), 2 pints Water, a little Salt and -white Pepper, 1 yolk Egg, 1 gill Milk»or Cream. .Put celery iuto. pan -with butter melted beforehand, and stir till every piece of celeay is cO'vei'ed with butter. Pour on the water, add salt and pepper, and boil (without a lid on the pan) till celery is quite soft. Skim Weil from time to time as the froth rises. When celery is soft, rub all through a sieve. Returp soup to pan and stir till boilingr Have ready the egg and cream mixed, and pour the boiling .soup on tliis. Tliis soup is specially good for rheumatism and neuralgia. Chestnut Soup. Chestnuts, lb. stewed nearly 1 hour; Stock, 2 quarts; Seasoning, Salt, Mace, and Cayenne Pepper. Strip the outer shield from some fine, sound, Spanish chestnuts; throw them into a pan of wann water; and as soon as it becomes too hct for the fingers to remain in it, take from the fire, lift out chestnuts, peel them quickly, and throw them into cold water as thej' are done; wipe and weigh them; take f lb. for each quart of soup, cover with good stock, and stew gently for | hour, or until they break when touched with a fork. Drain and pound them smoothly, and rub through a fine sieve, reversed. Mix them by slow degrees with proper quantity of stock. Add sufficient mace, cayenne, and salt to season the soup, and stir it often until it boils, f pint of rich cream, or even less, will improve it, greatly. The stock in which the chestnuts ai’e boiled can be used for the soup, when its sweetness is not objected to, or it may in part be added to it. Children's Soup (Good). i lb. Mince, 1 large Spanish Onion, J teacupful Rice, Salt and Pepper. Break mince thoroughly into 4 breakfast cups of cold water, add onion chopped small, and boil 1^ hours. Then add rice and salt and pepper, and boil \ hour longer. Clear Soup. 2 or 3 lb. Shin of Beef, 1 Turnip, 2 Carrots, Leek, and c. little Celery. Cut meat off bones, and take out the marrow. Put bones and meat in pan; cover with cold water, and bring slowly to boil. Skim well. When it boils, put in the vegetables and some egg shells, and a few peppercorns, tied in a bit of muslin. Draw pan to the side, and let it simmer for 5 or 6 hours; do not put the lid on. Strain through a dish napkin. Care must be taken that it does not boil quickly, or it will look muddy. Coburg Soup. Vegetarian. Brown 2 sliced onions by frying in 1 oz. butter, a teaspoon flour, and saltspoon sugar. Put in pan with two carrots, small parsnip. Spa: ish onion, sprig lemon thyme, \ lb. cooked haricot beans, and 3 pints water. Boil slowly for hours. Wffien vegetables are soft, mash through colander; return to pan, and when it boils up, add ^ pint milk, oz. flour, and IJ oz. butter mixed carefully together. Cook for 7 minuteSj and seive. Parsley may In? added, if liked.