204 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. DRINKS. Alinonci Water. Put 6 oz. ground sweet almonds in pan with 2 oz. bitter almonds and 1 quart water. Simmer \ hour. Add 1 lb. loaf sugar, broken small, and when dissolved strain. Wlien cold, it is ready. 1 table- spoonful orange flower water is a great improvement \ a teacupful in tumbler with soda water is excellent. Apricot Syrup. Divide and stone the apricots, blanch the kernels, and chop very small. Put fruit and kernels over fire, with a few spoonfuls of water to prevent them burning, and reduce them to a marmalade, then run the juice through jelly-bag. Put 1^ lbs. sugar to each pint of juice, and boil gently for 10 minutes over a slow fire to remove the scum and bring it to a rich syinip. Cool, and bottle it. This delicious syinip is very useful to keep for creams, ices, or other delicate sweets. Aylesbury Sherbet. Mix 1^ oz. citric acid and 60 drops essence of lemon well together; dissolve 4 lb. loaf sugar in 2 pints boiling water; then add acid mix- ture. Stir it well up, bottle, and cork. 2 tablespoonfuls to a tumbler of water makes a refreshing summer drink. Add | teaspoonful car- bonate of soda if wanted effervescing. Boston Cream. 1 oz. Tartaric 'Acid, 1 breakfastcupful Sugar, 2^ breakfastcups Boiling Water, 2 teaspoonfula Essence of Lemon, 1 white of Egg. Pour boiling water over sugar, stirring occasionally. When cold, add acid and essence, and well-whisked white of egg. Bottle. Take 2 tablespoonfuls to one tumbler of water, and ^ saltspoonful carbonate of soda, if liked. Coffee Drink May be made by pouring some boiling water on the coffee left from breakfast, letting the liquid boil a minute or two with a small quantity of milk. It sliould be poured from the grounds into a clean jug, and sweetened and stirred while hot, as it will then not require so much sugar. This is a very good thirst-quencher. Drink for a Fever. 3 oz. Currants, 2 oz. Eaisine, carefully stoned, 1^ oz. Tamarinds, 3 pints Water, a little Lemon Peel. Boil the currants, raisins, and tamarinds in the 3 pints of water till reduced to 2 pints. Strain, add lemon peel and let it stand 1 hour, when it will be fit for use. Fruit Syrup. i lb. Sugar, i pint Water, 1 pint Strawberry or other Fruit Juice. Press juice from berries, and measure 1 pint. Put sugar and water in. pan, and boil 5 minutes. Add juice, and simmer gently I hour, removing scum. When cold, bottle and cork. Gingrer Beer. 3 lb Loaf Sugar (or 4 lb. if liked sweet), 4 Lemons, peeled and sliced (no peel used); 2 oz. Cream, of Tartar, i lb. Ginger (well bruised). Mix well with wooden spoon in 3 gallons boiling water, and use the