TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 181 savoury custard can be made by substituting herbs, chopped meat and pepper and salt, for sugar and flavouring. ’ Steamed Custard. 1 Ijgg, 3 breakfastcupful Milk, J teaspoonful Sugar. Switch tlie egg; put into a large cup, and fill up with milk. Add tlie sugar. Cover over with buttered paper, and steam quickly for 2i) rmnnfae ^ •' Small Farola Pudding'. * "^rJaW^spoonfSJTnTlf? tablespoouful Sugar, 2 Eggs, and mill anti essehce in-bowl; wet with a little cold milk; stir. - Boil remainder of milk, and pour over mixture. Put back 1 Separate yolks from whites. Add few drops of milk to yolks, and wliip till fluid. Add to mixture. Add pinch of salt to whites, and whip toi froth till they cam be taken up on whisk. Add toi farola mixture, and stii” in veiy gently. Pour ^ Jiaoderate oven till browi/and well Hygienic Invalid Pudding. 1 teacupful Grniiose Elakea, 1 do. Force f teucunfnl Omno at si^onful Sugar, i tablespoonful Butter, a few ftaisins. Butter pudding mould and put raisins in bottm-^ ' . milk and water to desired consistency. Melt butter and pour ove> ingredients. Steam 2 hours. invalids’ Tart. 1 lb. Apples, Sugar, 2 itiggN, a inair i.i «i>,u>ga Oolrc, 1 teacup Milk. Stew apples with sugar and nutmeg. Place in pie-dish and smooth over. Slice cake over. Boil milk, stir into it yolks of egg and 1 dessertspoonful sugar. Stir over fire till it thickens. Pour over cake. Beat whites stiffly with a very little sugar. Spread over and place in oven to firm. Semolina Cream. 1 oz. Semolina, 2 gills Milk, i oz. Gelatine, 1 dessertspoonful Sugar, t gill Cream, 2 drops Vanilla. Cook semolina in milk, add gelatine. Don’t let it boil, but stir at side of fire till dissolved. Remove from fire. Add sugar and cream. Stir lightly, and flavour. Pour into wetted mould. Sponge Cake Pudding. 4 oz. Flour, 2 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Sugar, 2 Eggs. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream. AVell beat the eggs and add them, and then the flou’. Slightly grease an, ashet^ and spread a layer of jam on it. Pour the mixture over that, and bake A hour in a quick oven. Vermicelli Pudding. Boil 1 pint of milk and pour it over a breakfastcupful crushed vermicelli. Steep, closely covered, 12 minutes. Stir in 3 beaten eggs. Steam in mould.