tried favourites cookery book. J80 One slioulcl be taken in forenoon and the other in the afternoon be- tween meals. Rice Water. 2 oz. Eice, 2 fine sticks Cinnamon, and 1 pint Cold Water. Boil till rice is reduced to a pulp, set in jug, shake now and again cover and stand till cold. Add a little cream of tartar, if liked and allowed. (Good for cliarrlirE.a.) Sag'o Milk. Wash a small oz. of sano. Soak in cold water 2 hours. Bring pint milk to boil. Strain" sago. Add it to the milk with a pinch of salt. Stew gentlv ^ hour. It must be stirred till it boils up after sago is added, and^then occasionally. Sei've with cream or stewed raisins. Sandwiches. Slice some raw beef, scrape, and put between bread-and-butter, a little honey being acldecl to take away the taste. Cut in small sand- wiches. These are very useful for weakly children, bloodlefl&nes.?, chest affections, wasting diseases, and during the convalescence of acute fever. The best time foi^ taking them is between meals and during the night. Suet or Milk Porridge for Invalids. 1 tablespoonful Suet, 2 do. Flour, 1 teacupful Milk, and a little Balt. Mince the suet very fine. Mix milk and flour till smooth, then put into a pan; add suet and a pinch of salt; boil very gently for 10 minutes, and serve hot. This is very good and nourishing, especially for those who cannot take cod-liwer oil. Syrup Drink. 3 pint Milk, 2 tablespooufuls Golden Syrup. - Place 2 tablespoonfuls golden syrup in a small basin. Bring milk to boiling point and pour on the syrup. Stir well, and didnk when hot. Capital for a cold. Take it in bed on account of the profuse perspii’a- tion it induces. Wheat Meal Cakes (entire). (Useful in anaemia, phthisis, and wasting diseases of children.) Add J lb. of fine flour or medium Scotch oatmeal, and sufficient salt and baking powdei’, to 2 lb. of coarsely-crushed whole wheat meal. Mix well; add 2 oz. of butter, rub it in well, and make the whole into a dough with half skim milk and half water. Bake in a quick oven, and finish thoroughly at a loAver temperature. Cream Whey. 1 pint Skim Milk, 1 dessertspoonful Vinegar, 2 tablespoo.nfuls Cream, Sugar, Nearly boil the milk, and vinegar. Let it stand till it curdles. Strain through muslin, and stir in cream and sugar to taste. The whey retains the richness of the milk without the caseine. Lemon Whey. 1 Lemon, 1 breakfastcupful Milk, 1 breakfastcupfukWater, 1 dessertspoonful Sugar. Put milk and water in pan with juice of lemon. Boil and strain. The whey part is then sweetened with sugar, and drunk very hot. Ex- cellent for a cold, as all wheys are sudorific and cause perspiration.