34 TiUED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Pot Pie (Cumberland). Stew piece of shoulder of mutton in nice small pieces. Tlien lay in pieslish with the gravy, sprinl^le over finely-shred onion, pepper, and salt. Then lay over pai’ed whole potatoes and bake quite 1 hour. Roast Pork. The loin, ham, and sho'ulder are the joints generally roasted.. The pork should be young, and the skin finely scored. Stuff with pork stuffing’ laib salt over the skin and roast, allowing IG minutes to the pound. Serve with apple sauce. Grilled Steak on Gas Stove. i lb. pope’s eye Steak, | inch thick; good teaspoonful Butter. Place gridiron on top of grill to get. hot. Rub over heated gridiron with bit of suet fat to make steak slip off easily. Melt butter on plate and dip steak well into melted butter on both sides. Hold it over a good fire for 8 minutes (a good heat at first as in roasting). Give 1 minute to each side; this bastes it. Hold stealc out of flame.. Ready when a nice brown colour, and no red at sides. Always serve potato chips with grilled steak. Tomatoes, good accompaniment. Serve on very hot j^late, Avith salt and pepper sprinkled over, and potato chips round. Never press gridiron close, or press juices out of meat and put it out of shape. Steamed Steak. li lb. Steak, Onion, minced small. Flour, Pepper, and Salt. Cut the steak into nice pieces for rolling up, dip each piece in the flour, pepper, and salt, and on each bit of steak put a little of the minced onion, and roll up. Lay the pieces in a basin, add a. table- spoonful of Avnter or stock and a little ketchup. Cover the basin Avith greased paper. Steam for hours. OR, 1 lb. Steak, and 2 Sheep’s Kidneys. Cut steak and kidney in nice pieces, and i-oll small piece kidney in each piece of steak. Dust over Avith flour, pepper, and salt. Put into basin Avith 1 tablespoonful Avater. Steam for 3 hours. Stewed Steak. Take some pieces of beef suet and put in steAvpan till pretty hot. Add a large onion, sliced, and fry for a little; then add 2 sheep’s kidneys, cut in pieces, and 2 lb. steak, also cut in convenient pieces, and Avell floured (Avith pepper and salt added to flour) ] keep turning till brown. Cover with boiling water, and steAv sloAvly for IJ or 2 hours. Keep lid close, but shake pan often to prevent burning. Stewed Steak, with Balls. 1 lb. stewing Steak, 1 Onion, 1 Carrot, \ Turnip, dessertspoon Vinegar, tablespoon Flour, and a little Pepper and Salt, 3 breakfastcups cold Water. Cut meat in small pieces, and put in pan Avith .shi-ed onion. Sprinkle over jAepper, salt, and vinegar. Add flour in a little Avatei', and stir till nearly boiling. Simmer gently while you make balls!— •I tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons finely minced suet, a little salt, and cold Avater. Cut mixture in small pieces. Simmer 2 hours.