190 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. SICK NURSING. An India rubber bag may serve as a poultice, if filled with hot water and used with two or three ply of moist flannel betiveen it and the skin. In changing patient's clothing be. sure that the clean articles are not only thoroughly dry, but warm. Never remove a spent poultice till the fresh one is ready to take its place, and be very careful not to expose poulticed part to the air, as the least chill may undo the effects of the treatment. A Simple Antidote to Poison. To a child, give instantly tho whites of 2 or 3 eggs. To an adult, give the whites of 6. To be drunk at once. OR, Stir 1 teaspoonful mustard in a tumblerful of warm water and drink at once. Get medical aid. For Burns. j Apply linen rags soaked in carron oil, if skin is unbroken ; if it is, apply Picric ointment. > The white of an egg mixed a little and poured over a burn is also one of the most soothing and healing things that can be applied. It effectually exclude® the air, and thus helps to heal, as contact with the air is what causes pain and inflammation. Substitute for Brandy or Whisky. Equal parts of Chloric Ether, tincture of Ginger and Sal Volatile. Keep in a druggist’s bottle, well corked. A teaspoonful in a wine-glassful of water is a never-failing remedy in every ease when alcohol is deemed necessary—even for heart failure. Cayenne Cloth. FOR ANY PAIN. Teaspoonful Cayenne, 1 pint Water, or i Vinegar and Water, or whole Vine- gar, according to sensitiveness of skin. Boil 5 minutes, then infuse by side of fire in jelly can for 3 hours; strain, and wring cloth out of this. Keep on all night. You never take cold after it, so may go out in morning. Chalk Mixture. Id Rhubarb, Id Magnesia, Id Cinnamon, Id Prepared Chalk, Id Laudanum, Jib. Loaf Sugar. Mix and put in ordinary sized black bottle, fill wdth water, and shake well before using. Dose for adult^—one tablespoonful. To Check a Cold. Put 2 tablespoonfuls mustard iji hot bath. Cover knees with blanket. After \ hour mb well. Get to bed quickly, and give hot drink—2 tablespoonfuls raspbeny vinegar in tumbler of hot rvater. A Cure for a Cold. Take a good teaspoonful of mustard and mix to a. smooth paste with olive oil. Take a piece of flannel, cover it with the paste, lay another bit of flannel on the top, and wear it over chest until the cold ia quite away.