157 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Cocoa-Nut Buns. 1 cupful Sugar, and 2 slices of Bread without cruets, rubbed iuto 1 lb. des- sicated Cocoa-mit. Mix with 2 beaten eggs, and bake in small greased tins in quick oven. Cocoa-Nut Cakes. i lb. Flour, 2 oz. Sugar, 3 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Ground Cocoa-nut, 1 teaspoon Baking Powder, 1 Egg, a pinch of Salt, and teaspoon Essence of Lemon. Mix dry ingredients. Rub in butter; add egg and enough milk to make a stiff dough; then bake in pieces the size of an egg in warm oven 10 minutes. When nearly done, sprinkle a little ground cocoa- nut over top. Return to oven till a light brown colour. Cookies. Beat 1 egg and 1 cup sugar to cream. Work 2 oz. butter soft, and beat it with egg and sugar. Grate in J nutmeg, add 1 gill milk and prepared flour enough to make a sufficiently stiff paste to roll out, about a pound. Roll J inch thick; cut out with cutter, and lay on a floured baking pan, and bake 12 minutes in moderate oven. Cream Cakes (1). Put in saucepan \ pint milk or water. Bring to boil. Add 1 tablespoon castor sugar and 2 oz. butter. Draw to side of fire and stir in very briskly 6 oz. flour. Take pan off fire and drop in one by one 3 eggs. Beat well, then set aside to cool. Then with forcing bag, put some of mixture in fingers or on rounds on greased tin and bake in slow oven till firm to touch and nice golden brown. Split rounds in two; fill centre with whipped cream, custard, &c. Cover with top, and place chocolate icing over fingers. Cream Cakes (2). 3 oz. Floair, 2 oz. Butter, teacupfuls Milk, 2 Eggs. Boil milk and butter together, then add flour, and stir over fire till smooth. Keep stirring over fire a few minutes, then cool, and add yolks of eggs, and at last whites beaten very stiffly. Drop in spoon- fuls on a greased oven shelf, and bake in hot o.ven about 20 minutes. IVhen cool, split open and fill with whipped cream. Dougfh Nuts (No. 1). Put into a basin J lb. of flour, a good teaspoon of baking powder, a pinch of salt; mix these well together with the tips of fingers, add 1 tablespoon of sugar, and rub in a piece of butter the size of a walnut Make a well in the centre, drop in one egg, and moisten with enough butter-milk to make a stiff dough. Drop a teaspoonful of the mixture into boiling fat, and cook from 5 to 6 minutes until a nice brown colour. Take out and drain on paper; dust over with fine sugar. A few drops of flavouring essence may be added. Doug~h Nuts (No. 2). JJ lbs. Flour, 3 oz. Butter, 3 oz. Soft Sugar, I Egg, a few drops Vanilla, 1 cupful Milk, and 3 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add other ingredients. Knead into a stiff dough, roll out ^ inch thick, cut out with a round cutter, out a hole in the centre with a smaller cutter. (If the first cutter is not large, a clean thimble will do for the second size.) Fry in boiling lard,