180 TRIED EAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. PUDDINGS. The essential things in these are to have the eggs lightly cooked and the starch sufficiently boiled. The chief -points to make a successfid ielly are (i) ine jelly must not boil; if it does, the milk curdles (2) Tie jelly must be cool before it is moulded, or the gelatine will sink to 7e bottom of the mould. (3) p. yel ow Pjf it fnkpn off the lemon; if the white peel is put in the jelly it makes it bi ter Gelatine added or mixed with tmlk makes % more digestible: the curds become much finer, and thus ^‘^etlij^tejgestion dipped into cold water: tin moulds should be scalded, then put rp’’ jy ^ ^ remember that all convcdescenls, or any whol lgeftion is feeble, require starchy foods^^^^^^^^ diluted, therefore for them nee and other mtlk puddings must be made thinner than for strong people. mhled up, and one egg beaten liot or cold Apple Fool. outui »ugar, i out. Add SUg Whisk all together. Stir over fire Bake tpplls mZT "^sSkplT^rou?" Add’siga^and cake 1 dessertspoonful Arrowroot, 1 teaspoonful Sugar, 1 breakfastcupful Water or Milk. Wet arrowroot with a tablespoonful of the cold water or milk, and add the rest boiling, stirring all the time, when it is ready. Arrowroot Pudding:. Mix cold milk and arrowroot together—1 oz. to ^ pint milk. Boil together, and when swollen (in one or two minutes) pour into basin; sweeten, and break in the yolks of 1 or 2 eggs. Stir well. Whip whites to stiff froth, and mix in lightly. Pour into greased pie- dish. Bake in oven 4 or 5 minutes till brown. Egg will thus be merely warmed througli, and starchy matter thoroughly cooked. Simple Cheese Pudding:. i lb. Grated Cheese, add a pinch of Carbonate of Soda, then 1 full teacupful Bread Crumbs, 1 ditto Milk. Season with Pepper, Salt, and dry Mustard Beat with two forks, not letting it boil, as it becomes leathery, therefore indigestible. Baked Custard Pudding:. 1 pint Milk, 2 Eggs, 4 oz. Castor Sugar, Flavouring. Beat the eggs; add to them the milk and sugar and flavouring. Pour the custard into a pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Sprinkle sugar over, and serve either hot or cold. A