TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 8 Julienne Soup (1). 4 young Carrots, 2 Turnips, 2 stalks Celery, i Parsnip, 1 Leek, 1 Onion, 1 Cabbage leaf, heart of a small Lettuce, handful young Peas, some Asparagus tops, and a few very small sprigs Cauliflower. Cut vegetables very finely. Put 1 oz. butter in pan. Throw in leoks and onions, and toss about a few minutes ower a moderate fire, add the other root vegetables, with a little sugar and salt, cook a few minutes; then pour in 1 quart hot stock. As soon as it boils up, add rest of vegetables, and cook till done (about 20 minutes). Break into little pieces a few leaves chervil, put them into the tureen, skim the soup, and serve. (Peas and asparagus have often to be left out.) Julienne Soup (2). 2 pints Stock, small piece Carrot and Turnip and green of Leek, Pepper and Salt, whites and shells of two Eggs. Place stock on fire, with whites and shells, w^hisk steadily till froth rises. Boil up and draw aside. Repeat this two or three times. Let it stand 15 minutes, covered closely. Strain through jelly cloth, re-heat and add the vegetables, which have been boiled separately to preserve the colour, for 15 minutes. Kidney Soup (1). 1 Ox Kidney, 3 quarts good Stock, made with Bones, Carrot, Turnip, and Onions, Pepper, Salt. Wash kidney well, and put into pan with 1 pint water, and parboil for 10 minutes; then pour away the water, which is'useless; cut up kidney into small pieces and put into the stock and boil slowly 2 hours. Mix for thickening, 1 tablespoonful cornfiour, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 ditto ketchup, and a little bTOwning into ^ pint of water; add to soup, with pepper and salt, and stir till it boils. Kidney Soup (2). 1 Ox Kidney, 1 tablespoonful Bovril, 2 Carrots, 2 Spanish Onions, Pepper and Salt, 1 oz. Roast Dripping, 3 quarts boiling Water. Remove all fat from kidney, cut in slices, and flour it well. Put it into a pot with the dripping, stirring till well browned. Then add the boiling water and onions, out in quarters, and pepper and salt. Let all simmer 3 or 4 hours. Skim off the fat, add tlie carrots, grated, and the bovril, and serve hot. . Kidney Soup (Mock). a lb. Liver, 2 Onions, 2 tablespoonfuls Flour, 1 tablespoonful Dripping, Salt and Pepper, small Bone, small bit of Carrot and Turnip. Boil the bone with carrot and turnip in 9 breakfastcupfuls water for 3 hours, then strain. Wasli the liver thoroughly, dry it, and cut it up in very small bits. Chop up the onions. Ptit the dripping in a saucepan tO' melt and get quite hofi Put in the onions, and fry them yellow, also fi7 the liver till it looks a light colour; then add the flo'Ui, and mix well. Put all in saucepan till it looks brown, then add stock, 1 teaspoonful salt, and a little pepper and ketchup. ’ Stir Avell till it boils. Put on lid, and simmer for 2 hours. Add salt to taste, and seiwe. ^ Kidney and Tomato Soup. 1 Ox Kidney, 1 Butter, 1 tablespoonful of Flour, 1 sm^l Carrot, 2 pints Water, 1 tm Tomatoes, 1 teaspoonful Salt, i teaspoonful Pepper^ Turnip and Onion, 1 sciugozo liGmon Juic©, 1 pinch Sugar, Melt butter in pan, cut kidney into smaU square pieces, keeping