TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 41 JusTseci Ha.re. The best Joints of n Hare (the inferior joints may be made into soup), 1 tablesnoonful Butter, 4 broakfastcupfuls of good Stock, a small piece of the stick of Cinnamon, a few Cloves, 1 Bay Leaf, the juice of a Lemon, Salt to taste. _ ^ Cut the hare into nice joints about the size of a hen s egg. Wash well, and dry. Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter in a stewpan, and fry the pieces of hare very well. Drain, and put into a wide-mouthed jar; cover over with stock, and add the seasonings. Cover with a thick areased paper, and steam, for 2 hours. Seiwe with red-currant jelly- Roast Hare. Skin, empty, and wash the hare. ■ Stuff with good forcemeat; sew it up, and tniss it, after which cover it well over with slices of fat bacon. Roast for about an hour, and serve with good brown sauce. Sauce.—1 teacupful bread crumbs, 2 teaoupfuls milk, 1 dessertspoonful butter, 1 onion, a pinch of cayenne, salt to taste, 1 teacupful stock, 1 teaspoonful red-currant jelly. Stew the onion in the milk; strain, and pour over the bread cnindis. Allow them tb soak a little. Then add the other ingredients, and boil for 10 minutes. Remains of Hare. To use up remaine of Hare, take i lb. of fat Bacon, 2 breakfastcupfuls Broad Crumbs, some Gravy or Stock, 4 Potatoes mashed, 2 tablespoonfuls Ket- chup, Salt and Pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of Butter. Chop up the pieces of hare, and fry the bacon. Put a layer of bacon into a deep pie-dish, then a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of hare raised with a little mashed potatoes. Over this pour sufficient gravy or stock to prevent the pie becoming diy. Proceed in the same manner until all the ingi’edients are used up and the dish is filled. Finish off with potatoes on the top. Smooth nicely, and oraament. Put little pieces of butter hei'e ancl there over the top, and bake for 20 minutes. Pigeon Pie. If to be eaten hot, have nice flaky crust. If intended cold, short ciust, preferably, and should be equally rich or nearly so. Butter dish, and lay crust round sides and round edges. At bottom of'dish, place a fine beef-steak, seasoned with pepper and salt, then the birds rubbed with pepper and salt inside and out, and a piece of butter in each. Some add the liver chopped up, with parsley. Observe to lay the breasts downwards to keep them juicy. A bit of ham is sometimes laid on each pigeon, and a hard-boiled egg between every two, but neither of these is necessary. Put i pint gravy, and have ready a little more to pour in boiling hot at top when coobed. Season the gizzards, and, if you cut them off, two joints of the pinions, and lay in middle of dish. Lay on top crust, and make hole in centre, wherein may be stuck some of the feet, nicely cleaned. Brush oyer with beaten yolk of egg, and bake IJ hours, if not very large. Pigeons (Stewed) and Mushrooms. 2 Pigeons, 2 oz. Butter, J oz. Flour, i teaspoon Salt, i teaspoon Pepper, 1 tablespoon Mushroom Ketchup, 1 teaspoon Worcester Sauce, | pint Stock, and J lb. Mushrooms. Truss pigeons as for roasting, then roll in seasoned flour. Melt butter in pan, and fry till brown. Remove from pan, and stir re-