12? TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Rhubarb Custard. Stew some rhubarb with sugar and rind of lemon ; let it stand till cool. Make a custard with Bird’s custard powder (using 2 packets to a pint of milk and a little sugar). When cool, mix it with the rhubarb. Pour it into a glass disli, and serve cold. A1wu3'S scald rhubarb before cooking it, for it requires rmicli less sugar, and j’et loses none of its davoiir. Rice Put a teacup of rice into \ milk, and stand it at the side of the fire to simmer until quite soft. Then add the yolks of 3 beaten eggs to the rice in the stewpan, and beat the whole iq) with a teaspoon of fine moist sugar. Then turn it out into the dish that it is to be baked in, piling it up high in the centre, and spread a thick layer of jam over it. Whi.sk the white of the eggs to a stiff froth with a teaspoon castor sugar. Spread it over the jam, and sprinkle sugar on the top. Then drop a little of the froth about it in different shapes. Put into the oven for about 20 minutes, taking care to leave the oven door open. Rice Pudding: (1). 1 tablespoonful Kice, 1 oz. shred Suet, clessertsnoonl'ul Sugar, i piiit skiiii Milk, pinch Salt ajid Seasoning. Grease pie-dish well, and put in pudding, with shred suet on top. Bake in slow oven till cooked. Rice Pudding: (2). 3 pints M"ilk, i lb. Eice, 2 Eggs, and 2 tablespoonfids Sugar. ■ Rice Pudding:, without eg:gs. J lb. Eicc, 1 tablespoonful SUet, 1 do. Sugar, grate Nutmeg, handful Sul- tanas, and 2 breakf'astcups Milk. (Skim Milk will do, as Suet supplies want of fat) May be steamed or baked. Rice Pudding: (Whole in Mould). 4 oz. Eice, 1 pint Milk, 1 dessertspoonfid Sugar, a Bay Leaf. Wash and put rice in double pan. Boil milk and pour over rice, add bay leaf and sugar, or. 1 the thin rind of a lemon. Cook the rice 2^ hours, seeing that the water in outer pan is kept boiling all the time. Pour into wetted mould, and set to cool. Serve with stewed fruit. Rothesay Pudding'. I lb Flour, 1 lb. Bread Crumbs, i lb. Suet, 1 teacupful Easpberry or Goose- berry Jam, 1 teacup Milk, 1 dessertspoonful Sugar, 1 Egg, ^ teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, 4 teaspoonful Vinegar Wet the soda with a very little vinegar, just enough to moisten it, and add to other ingredients. Steam 2 hours. Red Sag:o Shape. Cook sag-o in water instead of milk. When clear and cooked, flavour with essence of lemon, sweeten, and add as much red or black currant jelly as colours, it nicely—a little cochineal if liked. Stir well and pour into wetted mould. Roly-Poly Pudding:. 1 brcakfastcup Flour, i lb. Suet, -f teaspoOnful Salt, 1 do. Sugar, J leaspoon- ful Baking Powder. Mix into paste with butter-milk or water and roll thin. Line