TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 97 Potatoes a la Milanese. Take as many potatoes as required. Choose the largest; bake them well, then cut off the tops and scoop out the insides. Pass the potato through a sieve, and add a tablespoonful grated Parmesan and Gruyfere cheese mixed, pepper and salt. Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter in pan, put in mixture, and make it hot, fill the potato cases with it, put them in the oveii for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Pressed Beef. 1 lb. Minced Beef, 1 lb. Minced Ham, i lb. Bread Crumbs, dessertspoonful Yorkshire Eelish, Pepper and Salt. Soak crumbs overnight in a little milk, then pass through sie<ve; add and mix all well, and press firmly in buttered mould. Steam 2 or 3 hours. Salmon Sandwich. Cold boiled salmon potinded with fresh butter, and a little salt and cayenne (and essence of anchovies if likctl), spread between slices of bread and butter. Sardine Eggs. Boil as many eggs as you require, hard. Cut eggs in lialf and remove yolks. Scrape and bone one sardine to each-egg, pound yolks and sardine mixture together; add salt, and a. little cayenne pepper. Cut off bottom of eggs that they may stand; chop these pieces and use to decorate mixture. Serve with watercress or lettuce. Savoury Omelette. 2 Eggs, Salt, Popper, i teaepoouful chopped Parsley, chopped. Ham or Kidney, ^ oz. Butter. Mix yolks with parsley, pepper, and salt; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir in lightly with the meat. Melt buttei’ in pan, turn in mixture, and stir lightly for a few minutes. Fold up the sides, and serve hot. Savoury Pancakes. 6 tablespooufuls Flour, 1 teaspoonful Salt. Make into thick batter with 3 beaten eggs and a little milk. Beat till smooth. Stir in tablespoonful finely minced onion, minced parsley, pepper, and salt. Leave batter for a few hours, then fry about a tea- cup'ful at a time. Savoury Rice. Two breakfastcupfuls of boiled rice; that left over from a pud- ding will do as long as it is stiff and unsweetened. Melt one table- spoonful of butter in your dish ; beat up the rice well, so that it is free from lumps. Stir till well mixed with the butter; add two table- spoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce and two ripe, juicy tomatoes, cut in slices. Make very hot. Now add four large tablespoonfuls of any grated cheese. Season with salt and pepper. Mix and heat thoroughly. Serve at once, heaped up on hot buttered toast. Scotch Woodcock. 2 harfl-boiled Eggs, 1 oz. Butter, 4 oz. Flour, ^ pint Milk, about 3 oz. Cheese, 2 rounds of Toast, a little Salt. Melt butter, add flour, add milk, stir till it boils; boil one minute or so, add pepper, salt, cayenne, and half the cheese grated, with a pinch of carbonate of soda. Drop hard-boiled eggs in cold water for