TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 56 Tripe, Dressed. Best pieces of tripe are kept for this dish. Cut into strips about 2 inches broad. Lay one strip on board; on that place a strip of bacon, not too lean 3 on that strew a little of a mixture which has been prepared (a little salt and pepper and finely-chopped onions mixed). Then roll up tripe, and tie each roll, placing them as tie<l in a little of the stock in which the tripe was boiled. When cooked, set the rolls edgeways, and on tops of piles place a little carrot (boiled and mashed), and garnish each further with a tiny piece of parsley. Tripe, Fried in Batter. Batter—3 tablespoonfuls flour and 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs mixed. Beat up 1 egg, and add | pint milk. Then stir very grad- ually into flour and crumbs. Season, and let it stand 1 hour before using. Dip pieces of cooked tripe, into batter, and fry in hot fat. Garnish with parsle}^ Veai Cutlets. 1^ lb. Fillet of Veal, i lb. Bacon, 1 Egg, i lb. Bread Crumbs, ^ teaspoonful grated Lemon Bind, Salt and Pepper. Trim flllets, season slightly. Add seasoning and lemon rind to crumbs. Egg and bread-crumb the flllets. Fry 5 minutes in boiling fat, and serve with a piece of bacon, -rolled and grilled, on each. Serve with brown gravy or tomato sauce. Veal and Ham Patties. 1 lb. of Veal off fillet, ^ lb. cooked Ham; Pepper and Salt to season; juice of Lemon or Rind, 2 boiled Eggs. Cut up veal in pieces, cover with cold water, sprinkle over pepper and salt, and put in stew-jar in oven for 1| hours. While meat is cooking, make about 1 lb. of pufl’, or rough puff, pastiy with self- raising flour and butter and lard in equal quantities, or clarified drip- ping, and lay it aside in a cool place ready for use. Take veal out of jar and mix the liquid with a little flour to keep it from becoming a jelly. Chop up the veal and ham finely, also the 2 eggs, which have been boiled hard •, mix all together, then boil up gravy, put lemon juice in, pour it over the mixture. Take patty tins and butter them, line with pastry, and when mixture is cold put a large spoonful on the pastry, cover with another layer of the pastry, trim the edges and brush dver with yolk of egg. Bake in brisk oven for 15 to 20 min- utes. Veal Rissoles. Mince 1 lb. veal extremely small. Add a little finely-chopped cold ham. Mix well together with white sauce flavoured with mush- rooms. Form this mixture into balls, and enclose each in pastry, or egg and bread-crumb and fi-y.