nC) TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. way up tJa© basin, and staam thus for 20 minutes. Another strength- erniug way of serving beef tea is in a Savoury Custard. 2 yolks of Egf?s, 1 White of Egg, 1 gill of Beef Tea, a piece of Butter or fresh Dripping the size of a thimble, a small pinch of Salt. Whisk the two yoll^s and the white of egg well together in a basin, stir in the cold beef tea and salt. Grease slightly a cup or small jelly can, put the mixture in, and cover with a slightly greased paper. Place this in a pan of boiling water, the water coming half way up the c”p. Steam thus for about 20 minutes, taking care not to shake the jai’, which would curdle the egg. The water must boil slowly, to px-e- vent the custai’d fi'om becoming honeycombed. Instead of steaming ])eef tea pudding and savoux y custard, they may be baked in a slo^v oven for about 15 minutes. ^ Bran Tea or Soup. P’ash 4 handfuls bran and boil in 2 quarts water 1-| lioui’s slowly. Flrair. and put liquid in clean pan with 3 good-sized tomatoes cut up. lioii together for ^ hour and sti’ain again. Take a teacupful as a re- st oiniive in the forenoon. Bran Jelly. 1 brcakfastcupfxil Bran, 2 do. Water. Place in a covei'ed jar in a slow oven 4 o^r 5 hours. Pi*ess thi’ough sie ve, add sugar and lemon juice to taste, and stand ovei’night to jelly. A d'dicious and valuable nexwe and bi-ain food. Chicken Broth. Take a fowl, the younger the better, and, after disjointing it, place it in a stew-pan with a. quart of water, and a very little salt, and boil 2 hoiix’s. Cool and skim. Chicken Panada. Take breast of chicken pounded smooth in moidar or bowl. Add teacupful bread crumbs soaked in warm ixiilk or in chicken broth. Mix well, add a little salt, and, if allowed, a pinch of mace. Seiwe in cup with spoon. / Chicken Puree. Joint the chicken, and stew gently with a veiy little salt till tender, in sufficient water to foi’m jelly when chicken is cooked. Take the white meat and pound well in a moi-tar, or in bowl, with a wooden spoon. Pour strained liquor over, then set in wetted mould. Given in teaspoonfuls in cases of exti’eme weakness, it is wonderfully effi- cacious. ChicEien or Fowl Extract, same way.- Invaluable for weak stomachs and where considerable nutriment is required in a concentrated form. A single tablespoonful will afford as much susten- ance as a ^ pint of broth. Cream Chicken. The breast, of a Fowl, Salt, Pepper, small teacupful of Cream. Pound tlie raw chicken in a mortar or bowl, then rub thi’ough wire sieve. Put it into a sanall basin witli a little salt and pepper, beat it up witi; a foi'k for 6 or 8 minutes, adding tlie ci’eam vei’y grad- tially until it is quite light. Wet a small mould (or cup), and put it in, covei' with a piece of papei’, and poach in boiling water for 20 in.inntes,.