153 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Cocoanut Biscuits. i lb. Cocoa-uut, i lb. Castor Sugar, 1 oz. Plasmon, Wliites of 3 Eggs. Put sugar and eggs into basin and whisk to stiff froth; then lightly stir in cocoanut and Plasmon. Place in little heaps on a buttered paper on a baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. Dry well, and keep in air-tight tin. Cocoanut Biscuits (2). A lb. Uessicated Cocoanut, 2 oz. Castor Sugar, 3 oz. Ground Rice, Whites of 3 Eggs. Mix well the dry ingredients. Whip whites to stiff froth, add, a little at a time, to mixture and mix well. Put in very rough heaps in tablespoonfuls on well-greased tin. Bake in a quick over 5 minutes. Then let oven cool down and cook slowly for | hour. They should bo a golden brown. Plain and Short-Crust Biscuits. Make 1 lb. flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk into a very ■stiff paste. Beat it well and knead it till quite soft. Roll very thin and cut. Bake in slow oven till quite dry anxl cri.sp. Smalll Biscuits. f lb. flour, ^ lb. salt butter, ^ lb. sifted sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, and flavouring of vanilla or lemon, all mixed together; cut into shapes, brush with white of egg, and dust with crystal sugar. Fine Ging-erbread Snaps. 3 lb. Flour, 1 lb. Sugar, li lb. Butter, 3^ lb. Treacle, 2 oz. Ginger, 1 oz. each of Allspice, Candied Peel, and Lemon Peel, 1 Nutmeg. Rub flour and butter together, add other ingredients, make into I paste. Lay them on tins size of a nut. Gingerbread Biscuits. { lb. Flour, 2 oz. Sugar, 1 teaspoonful Ginger or Cinnamon, 2 oz. Butter, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, and a little beaten Egg. Shape with a nicked cutter and prick over. Bake till brown and firm to the touch. Ginger Snaps. 2 cupfuls Treacle, 1 do. Lard, 1 tablespoouful Soda, 1 do. Ginger, Flour to make still enough to roll out. To make them snappish; when the ingredients are put together before the flour is added, the mixture must be brought to a boil. Kringles. (Nice to eat with Coffee.) 2 oz. butter in cup, melted gradually over boiling water. Break 4 yolks of eggs in basin with 1 white, beat up and fork well. Add to I eggs 2 oz. white sugar, also the melted butter. Stir with wooden spoon till quite smooth. Then add all at once | lb. flour. Mix all to stiff paste. Flour board and knead paste well together. Roll out I inch thickness. Cut in shapes. Prick with fork dipped in flour. Bake for 10 or 16 minutes. If liked brown, ogg over. Oatmeal Biscuits. Mix with milk, roll out thin, and cut into biscuits. .y, Rice Biscuits. 4 oz. each of Sugar, Butter, Ground Eiee, and Flour Make into a paste with one egg. Roll out and cut in rounds.