H2 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. pieces pine-apple in small squares. Add to clear tapioca Avith 2 table- curing, and the whites of 3 eggs whipped to stiff froth. Have \ oz. butter melted in omelette pan. Pour in mixture; let it set on the fire; and when edges begin to come from the pan, put it into the oven for 2^ minutes. Turn it on to a very hot plate, spread jam over quickly, turn over half, and dredge sugar over it; or simply turn over without jam. Orangfe Jelly. 1 cloz. sweet Oranges, sixpenny packet Gelatine, 6 oz. Castor Sugar, break- fastcupful cold Water. Dissolve gelatine and sugar in water on fire. Squeeze oranges, and strain juice. Strain gelatine into this, and stir. Pour into Wetted nlould, and cool. A Orang^e Compote. 6 Oranges, 8 oz. Sugar, 1 pint Water. Peel and cut oranges in rounds. Save all juice and put it with some shreds of peel, no wdiite) into the water with the sugar. Boil this for 1 hour, and pour syrup over the rounds of oranges to cool. I Orang'e Mering^ue. 4 oz. Rice, 2 oz. Sitgar, 1 quart Milk, flavouring Swell out rice slowly in the milk for 4 hours until all milk is absorbed. Pour into basin and cool. Then turn into a glass dish. Pour over compote of oranges made b}"^ preceding recipe and put Vvhipped cteam On top. Orang^e and Cocoa-Nut (cold, not cooked)< 1 Cocoa-Nut, 4 or 6 good Oranges, 4 oZ. Sifted Sugar. Kemove skins and white of oranges, and slice them roundways, taking oiit pips. Cut off the brown of cocoa-nut, and grate the white part. Place a layer of orange slices on glass dish, and sift some sugar over it, then a layer of grated cocoa-nut; another of oranges, sugaiq and cocoa-nut, and ^another, till dish is nearly full. Pour in milk of the cocoa-nut and the orange juice, but leave at the top of the dish a layer of the cocoa-nut. A Peach or Pine-Apple Compote. Pour juice out of tin and put in enamelled pan with breakfast- cup of white sugar and teacup of water. Boil a minute or two till sugar is dissolved. Put in fruit, and stew gently till tender. Cut off piece out of centre of sponge-cake, leaving a good wall all round which is not likely to break. Put in fruit when quite cold; place a slice of cake on top as cover ; pour synip over, and let cake soak in it. Pour thick cream or custard over all. Sprinkle pistachio kernels, which have been blanched like almonds and chipped finely, on top. Tlie sponge-cake which was cut out may be crumbled, put into glass dish, soaked in cream, and covered first with jam, then Avith good custard. Pine-Apple Shape. Simmer 2 oz. tapioca in 1 pint water till clear. Stir 1 oz. gela- tine in I pint juice from tin of pine-apple till dissolved. Cut some