&S TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Tomatoes a la Beng^al. Cut some bread into somewhat thisk slices, stamp into rounds with a plain cutter, fry until crisp in good fat, drain thoroughly, and keep liot. Peel 9 medium-sized tomatoes, cut into thick slices, season witli salt and curry powder, and pour a little liquid batter over each slice. Cook in a moderate oven for 10 minutes. Spread the croutons with a little chopped chutney beforehand, or mixed pickles; place tomatoes on top, sprinkle chopped parsley over, and serve very hot. Baked Tomatoes. Cut tomatoes in bits, and put layer of tliese and layer of bread crumbs. Dot top over with bits of butter and bake. Tinned toma- toes are almost as good, and thin slices of well-buttered bread may be used instead of crumbs. Stewed Tomatoes. ^ lb. Tomatoes, a little Butter or Dripping, Pepper, very little Salt, and a dessertspoonful Vinegar. Cut tomatoes in slices and lay in pan, with seasoning, and butter. Cover pan closely and stew gently till tender (30 or 40 minutes). When done, either add vinegar or not according to taste. . Stir well, boil up and serve. Stuffed Tomatoes. 6 Tomatoes, 3 tablespoonfuls Cooked Meat, 2 tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs, 1 oz. Butter, and 1 Shallot, Pepper and Salt; 6 croiltons of Bread. Tomatoes must be. large, linn, and juicy. Scoop out, not going too deep. Strain this through small sieve into mixture, which must be cooked a few minutes till bread crumbs swell. Then fill in care- fully, sprinkle finely minced parsley over, and cook 10 or 15 minutes in moderate oven. OR, 1 lb. Tomatoes, 2 oz. cooked Ham, 4 Mushrooms, 1 Onion, 1 tablespoonful chopped Parsley, 1 oz. Butter, 2 jmlks or one whole Egg. Chop the onion and fry in the butter till a light brown. Then add the rest of the chopped mixture, and fry 5 minutes. Break in the eggs, and stir till thick. Cut a round piece off the top of tomatoes, and scoop out inside. If liked, add to the mixture. Fill in the stuff- ing, cover with bread cruqibs, and bake 15 minutes till brown. Boiled Turnips. Choose turnips as nearly one size as possible, peel thickly, drop into boiling water, containing a teasijoonful salt to each quart, boil till tender, drain well, mash up with a little pepi^er and butter, add the cream, press into a mould, and turn out into the dish. A mould of carrots and another of turnips side by side makes a nice dish. The turnips may be served whole. Late in the season, when turnips, parsnips, carrots, &c., begin to lose their sweetness, they may be generally improved by adding a te«\- spoQnful Qr two of sugar to tho water they are boiled ub