86 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Stuffing: for Poultry. 1 pint Bread Crumbs, 1 teaspoonful Pepper, 1 small do.. Salt, 1 oz. Thyme, and a little chopped Parsley. Melt a piece of butter size of an egg in 1 cup boiling water, and mix, adding 1 egg. Tomato Catsup. Boil 1 bushel ripe tomatoes, skin and all, and when soft strain through a colander (not a sieve). Add to this pulp 2 quarts best vinegar, breakfastcup salt, 2 lbs. brown sugar, ^ oz. cayenne pepper, 3 oz. each of powdered allspice and mace, 2 oz. powdered cinnamon, 3 oz. celery seed. Mix spices and sugar together, and stir into the tomato, add the vinegar and stir thoroughly. Now strain through a sieve. A good deal of rather thick pulp will not go through. Pour all that runs through into a large pan, and let it boil slowly till reduced to half. Bottle, and keep in cool, dark place. Will keep for years. Put the thick pulp in a smaller pan and boil 20 minutes. Use this as a pickle for cold meat or boiled fish. A teacupful will flavour a Eoup. Pickled Beetroot and Onions. 1 large Beetroot, 1 Spanish Onion. Slice them thin, and place a layer of beetroot and onion alter- nately in a deep bottle with a little sugar. Press them down well till the bottle is nearly fuU. Pour into it cold vinegar to the top, and tie it over. Ready for use in two' days. Red Cabbagfe to Pickle. Take a firm cabbage, wash well, and take ofl outside leaves. Shred cabbage into slender slips and place a layer on a sieve, and sprinkle it freely with salt. Repeat till all is salted. Allow to re- main two days thus, tuniing several times to drain, then put in jar. Boil 1 pint vinegar with 1 teaspoonful peppercorns, 6 cloves, a blade of mace, and pour it hot over cabbage. A few slices beetroot will improve the colour. When cold, cover up tightly. To Pickle Beetroot. 6 Beets, 2 pints Vinegar, ^ oz. Ginger, J oz. Peppercorns, 1 blade Mace, 1 doz. Cloves. Boil 1^ hours. Peel, cut in slices | in. thick. Put in jar; boil 1 pint vinegar, Ac., and when cold add 1 pint cold vinegar. Pour over in jar. Ct)ver tightly when quite cold. Pickle for Meat. 1 gallon Water, 2^ lbs. Salt, i lb. Saltpetre, f lbs. raw Sugar. Boil well. Skim. Use when cold. Walnut Gravy. 3 tablespoonfuls Grated Walnuts, 1 pint Stock, 1 teaspoonful Butter, 1 table- spoonful Flour, Onion or Tomato Sauce. Heat, butter in pan, add walnuts and fry dark brown, stirring well to prevent burning. Pour on stock (made from beans or any vegetables) or water, and simmer slowly until just before serving. Then add a tablespoonful flour to thicken, and seasoning and a few drops onion or tomato sauce. Strain. This is a rich and savoury gravy.