4S TRIED EAYOURITES COOKERY BOOK. previously dipping the hand in cold water to prevent it sticking. Turn out on a well-floured board, and roll into a goo<l thick sausage, leaving a little thinner in the middle than at the ends. Put a good teaspoonful dripping into a pan, and allow to get quite hot; then put in sausage, and turn over till brown all round. Put on the lid of the pan, and cook very slowly for 1 hour. Hagrsris (Genuine Scotch). Procure the large stomach bag of a sheep, also one of tire smaller bags called “King’s Hood,” together with the pluck, which is the lights, liver, and heart. The bags must be well w’ashed, first in cold water, then plunged in boiling water, and scraped. Great care must be taken of the large bag; let it lie and soak in cold water, with a little salt, all night. Wash also the pluck. You will now boil the small bag along with the pluck; in boiling, leave the windpipe at- tached, and let the end of it hang over the edge of the pot, so that impurities may pass freely out. Boil for hours, and take the w'hole from the pot. Yflien cold, cut away the windpipe and any bits of skin or gristle that seem improper. Grate the quarter of the liver (not using the remainder for the haggis), and mince the heart, lights, and small bag very small, along with ^ lb. of beef suet. Mix all this mince with '2 small teacupfuls of oatmeal, previously dried before the fire, black and Jamaica pepper, and salt; also add ^ pint of the liquor in which the pluck was boiled, or beef gravy. Stir all together into a consistenc3>". Then take the large bag, which has been thoroughly cleaned, and put the mince into it. Fill it only a little more than half full, in order to leave room for the meal and meat to expand. If crammed too full, it will bui’.st in boiling. Sew up the bag with a needle and thread. The haggis is now complete. Put it in a pet with boiling water, and prick it occasionally with a large needle, as it swells, to allow the air to escape. If the bag appears thin, tie a cloth outside the skin. There shoidd be a. plate beneath it, to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pot. Boil it for 3 hours. Serve in a napkin on a dish, without garnish or gravy, it being sufficiently rich in itself. Hagrgis (Scotch, Simpler). Take 2 or 3 handfuls oatmeal; brown in oven; add to this J lb. suet minced fine, and any cold meat minced; but it is often made without the latter. Season with a little minced parsley, onion, salt, and pepper. Mix with a breakfastcupful of water, then put in a dish or pan with a close lid; boil 3 hours. OK, I lb. mineed suet, 10 tablespoonfuls oatmeal, pepper and salt, mixed well together. Fill (not too full) a few of the small bags of the sheep got at the butcher’s (well-cleaned). Sew up with needle and thread, prick over to prevent bursting, and boil in potato soup. (Makes a capital dinner for the bairns.) Devilled Ham. Use either the knuckle or any odd bits remaining. Cut off all dark or hard bits, and see that at least | of it is fat. Chop very fine, almost to a paste. For a pint of this, make dressing of 1 even table- spoonful sugar, 1 even teaspoonful mustard, 1 saltspoonful cayenne pepper, 1 teacup good vinegar. Mix sugar, mustard, and pepper thor-