TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 13 boiliug; out the white parts of leeks in small pieces, wash, and scald. Add to soup with butter and mace, boil till potatoes are quite soft, then put through sieve. Put back in pan, and bring to boil; beat yolks of eggs. When soup comes to boil, pour soup over yolks, stir- ring all tlie time. Queen Victoria Soup. Benson E. Hill in his “Epicure’s Almanac,” gives the following as Her late Majesty’s favourite soup while sojourning at Bahnoral. The proportions are for a dozen persons^—“Skin and entirely clean out the insides of three fat fowls or chickens, according to the season ; let them be well washed in warm water; put them into a pan for an hour, covered with strong veal broth, and add a good-sized bunch of parsley. Take the crumbs of two French rolls and soak them in the liquor; cut the meat off, take away the skin, and pound the flesh in a mortar, adding the soaked crumbs and the yolks of d hard-boiled eggs; force this through a coarse sieve, and put it into a quart of cream that has been previoiisly boiled ; re-warm for table.” A royal dish certainly, and one that does credit toi Her late Majesty’s taste. Queen’s Soup. 3 innte Stock from a boiled Towl, and part of the Meat; 1 hard-boiled Egg, 1 toaspoonful groimd Almonds, 2 dessertspoonfuls Cornflour, i pint Milk. Boil the bones with all sorts of flavouring vegetables and strain it Remove all meat from bones, and chop small. Put the yolk of egg through a sieve, and chop the white small; add this to the meat of the chicken. Put yolk into a basin, add to it the almonds and cornflour, and mix with the milk; add these to the stock when hot, and stir all till boiling. Boil 3 minutes. Wien cornflour is cooked, draw pan to side of fire; add the chopped chicken and egg, and let it stand by side of fire for 3 or 4 minutes to heat the chicken, but don’t let it boil. Serve very hot. Rabbit Soup (1). 1 Rabbit, 1 Carrot, 1 Turnip, and 3 Onions; 3 tablespoonfuls brown flour, a good teaspoonful Butter or Dripping, 10 or 12 breakfast cups ef Water. Let rabbit lie in water a little, cut in pieces, and fiy 20 minutes. Put in. onion for 3 or 4 minutes, then add carrot and turnip, and the water, boiling, if possible, salt and pepper, and boil J hour slowly. Strain, wash pan, and return stock to it. Brown the flour, and mix 2 tablespoonfuls stock. Put into pan and boil 10 minutes, cut the fleshy bits of rabbit into squares, put in pa.n, and when boiling it is ready to serve. Rabbit Soup (2). 1 Rabbit, i lb. lean Ham or Pork, 2 quarts cold Water or white Stock, 2 Onions, a slice or two of Turnip, a little Celery, sprig of Thyme, 10 Peppercorns, Salt and Pepper, i pint of Milk or Cream, 1 oz. of Butter, and 2 tablespoonfuls of Flour. Wash and cut up rabbit into joints, place in a pan, add water, let it come to the boil, and skim. Now add the vegetables, cut into dice, and flavourings tied in ai muslin bag, allow all to simmer gently for 2 or 3 hours. Strain, take out the meat, separating from the bones, remove the bag; rub the vegetables through a sieve, melt the butter in the pan, add the flour, mix it to a smooth paste, then to this