TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. , 191 Recipes for Colds. No. 1. 3 large Portugal Onions, i lb. Sugar Candy. Add 1 breakfastcupful of water; simmer for 3 hours ; strain. Let it cool, then add a tablespoonful of white vinegar. No. 2. Twopence worth (jf Tiinseed, 1 stick best Liquorice, i lb. Sugar Candy. Add 1 quart of water, let it simmer 1^ hours. Strain, cool, add 1 tablespoonful white vinegar. Raw onions are specially good for breaking up a heavy cold; they are also stimulating to fatigued persons.. A solid red onion eaten at bed-time will, by next morning, break the severest cold. Onions make a good plaster for inflammation and hoarseness. A Simple Coug^h Mixture. A medical journal says that in severe paroxysms of coughing, from whatever cause, a tablespoonful of glycerine in hot milk or cream will give immediate lelief. Good Cougrh Mixture. Juice of 1 lemon and 1 oz. glycerine well mixed. Take 1 teaspoon- ful night and morning. To Relieve a Ticking Cough. Mix thoroughly some honey and vinegar. Take in small quan- tities when cough is troublesome. Sir W. Gull’s Cough Prescription. I Hot Milk, i Glycerine. One teaspoouful every 2 hours. Cure for Croup. Give I teaspoouful warm olive oil every 10 or 15 minutes inter- nally, and rub chest, windpipe, and between shoulders with same warm oil, laying on both back and chest good pieces of new flannel soaked in oil. Two doses will generally quiet cough for the night and send child to sleep, but severe attack will give way in an hour. Repeat dose whenever child coughs for next day or two. Cure will rapidly become perfect. Cure for Chilblains. 3 teaspoonfuls sulphurous acid, one do. of glycerine, diluted with the same quantity of water. This, applied with a small brush, will be found to allay irritation. To Cure Chapped Hands; Take an .equal quantity of pure sweet oil and glycerine. Shake well before using. Be careful to thoroughly diy hands after washing. A piece of mutton suet, melted in the oven, will be found very good for the hands. Pure glycerine without the admixture of oil is not to be rcK;ommended. Cure for Corns. Soak some young ivy leaves in vinegar for a few hours, then tie one of the leaves on the corn with thread. Change each night and morning, and in a few days the com can be taken out without any pain. After corn has been taken cut, continue the leaves for a day «r two, in order to remove any little hardness that may remain.