TRIED EAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. HI Sauce fof Cod. 1 oz. flour cooked for 5 iiiimitos in 1 oz. butter. Add gradually i pint milk and ^ gill cream, and a cooked parsnip cut in dice. Cocoaniit Sauce. 1 OZ. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, 1 teaspoonful Dessicatecl Cocoaiiut, ^ pmt Milk, i pint Cold Water, 2 teaspoonfuls Sugar. i -n Melt butter in pan, stir in flour smoothly, add water and milk, half at a time, stir in cocoamit and sugar, and bring to boil. Dutch Sauce. 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, i pint Milk, 1 dessertspoonful Vinegar, 1 yolk Egg, Salt, and Pepper. . n - Melt butter, add flour, add milk, boil 5 minutes. Drop in yolk ot egg off fire, and stir till it thickens; then add vinegar. Mix well and serve. Egg Sauce (1). 1 Egg hard boiled, ^ teaspoonl'ul Salt, 1 oz. Butter, Cayenne, i pint Stock, i pint Milk, 1 oz. Flour, Pepper. Put butter and flour to melt in pan, add stock, milk, seasoning, beat and stir till smooth ; boil 5 minutes. Add the egg minced, and serve. If for fish, the stock can be made from the liones and trim- mings of fish. Egg Sauce (2). Boil egg for 10 minutes, then dip in cold, water to whiten white and keep yolk bright and yellow. Bring ^ pint milk to boil. Mix 1, oz. flour gradually with a little cold milk. Pour over it the boiled milk, pepper, a very little salt, | teaspoonful mustard, and the finely- chopped white of the egg, and boil sauce 2 minutes after it comes to the boil; then immediately before pouring oven’ fish add ^ teaspoonful butter, which gives a nice fresh flavour. Fruit Sauce. Take a good teaspoonful coni-flour, mix M'ith a little water, add- ing 4 tablespoonfuls cherry or any fruit syrup, and boil till it thickens. Seiwe cold. If wanted richer, more syrup should be added, but it should first be thickened by boiling to evaporate some of the water. Pine-Apple Sauce. Place some pine-apple juice in pan and add castor sugar to taste. Boil till thick, and, if liked, add corn-flour. Seiwe with pine-apple fritters or semolina shape. Foam Sauce, for Puddingy. J teacupful white Sugar, 1 Egg (separate yolk from white), 3 tablespoon fills boilirig water. Dissolve riigar in water, beat up yolk and add, then flavour to taste, and add the white, well whislced, last. Sauce for Stuffed Haddock. 1 oz. IHour, 1 oz. Butter, i pint Milk, 1 teaspconfiil Anchovy Sauce, Lemon Juice, Pepper, and Salt. Stir till thick, and pour round fish. Hollandaise Sauce (Veal Cutlets). Take the yolks of 2 eggs, add a spoonful cold water. Whisk in saucepan, add juice of ^ lemon, and tablespoonful cream, a little pepper and salt. Stir over fire, taking care to keep it smooth.