104 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Apricot Tart (Open Tart). i tin Apricots, J lb. Sugar, rind and juice of i Lemon, and Short Crust. Put the syrup of | tin apricots in pan with sugar and rind (grated) and juice of lemon. Boil for 5 minutes. Put in apricots, and boil \ hour longer. Take short crust. Have it round and larger than ring. Grease ring well, and tuck it well in with hand. Put apricots in case, round sides up, and put in oven hour. For Mdringue top, take 3 whites of Eggs, 2 large tablespoonfuls castor Sugar. Beat whites very stiffly, then stir in lightly 1 tablespoonful sugar. Meringue will be rough, not smooth, if not beaten enough. Take half of mixture, after the tablespoonful sugar has been lightly stirred in, and smooth over tart. Then with forcing bag decorate with other half of mixture. Twist bag well up at top, and press with right hand. Sprinkle other tablespoonful sugar over top now, and slightly brown in oven. Use dredge for sugar. (May be made with pine-apple, rhubarb, or gooseberries, &c.) Arrowroot Custard. 2 oz. Arrowroot, 2 oz. Sugar, 1 pint Milk, Nutmeg, Lemon Peel, Essence of Almond. Mix the arrowroot, sugar, and a little nutmeg in.a little cold water to the thickness of paste. Boil the pint of milk and lemon peel, and pour over arrowroot, with a few drops of essence of almond, till it forms the custard, and pour from one jug to another till cold. A dish of fruit or rhubarb sweetened with this custard poured over is very good. Arrowroot Pudding*. 1 tablespoonful Arrowroot, 1 pint Milk, 2 Eggs. Mix the arrowroot with cold milk, and pour over it 1 pint of boiling milk. Stir well, and let it cool. Add sugar to taste, and the eggs well beaten, and bake ^ hour. Australian Pudding. i lb. Flour, small teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda, i lb. Suet, ^ lb. Sugar, 5 oz. of Sultana or other Eaisins, teacupful of Milk. Mix flour, sugar, and suet together; add raisins, and mix with the milk, in which the carbonate of soda has been previously dis- solved. Put in pudding basin, and boil at least four hours. A tea- spoonful of ginger may be added if liked. Serve with sweet sauee. Bachelor’s Pudding. 4 oz. Bread Crumbs, 4 oz. Currants, 4 oz. Apples, 2 oz Sugar, 3 Eggs, Essence of Lemon, Nutmeg. Mince the apples. Whisk well the eggs. Put bread crumbs, currants, sugar, flavourings into a dish; add the apples, and pour over them the eggs. Butter a mould, and put all in. Boil 3 hours. Steamed Banana and Raisin Pudding. 5 or 6 Bananas, i cup Sultana Eaisins, li cup Bread Crumbs, f cup Sugar, 2 Eggs, ^ Lemon, Juice, and grated Eind. Peel bananas, remove coarse threads, pass pulp through sieve, add other ingredients, and when well-mixed pour into buttered mould, and steam 2^ hours. Serve with any hot pudding sauce. Banana Fritters. 1 Egg, i cup Flour, \ teaspoonful Salt, i cup Milk or Water, Bananas. Mix flour and salt, drop yoUt of egg into the centre, and slowly stir in the half of the milk. Beat till mixture is very smooth, then stir in