TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 201 tender. Pull a table up to the fii-e (so that you can beep one eye on the jelly), get a friend to help you if you can, and start cutting the skins with clean scissors, again choosing the finest and thinnest, and cutting them as finely as possible. 10 minutes before the jelly is done, throw in as many or as few of the chips as you like. It is equally good without any chips at all. Best made in March or April. Parsley Jelly. Take a quantity of fresh parsley, well washed. Put in jelly-pan, cover with cold water, and press down lightly. Boil gently for about ^ hour, and pour it twice thix)ugh a jelly-bag. To each pint of juice add 1 lb. sugar. Boil for about 20 minutes pretty smartly. Preserved Magrium Bonum Plums. 4 lb. Plutna, 4 lb. Sugar, 4 teacups Water. Pour boiling water over plums. Cover till cold, then skim. Boil water and sugar 5 minutes. Put plums in deep basin, and pour boil- ing syrup over. Stand 24 hours. Pour syrup off into pan, and boil a few minutes, and pour over plums once more. Stand again 24 hours. Boil syrup once more. Put in plmns and boil gently 20 or 30 minutes till clear and tender. Take plums up into dish with skimmer. Let syrup boil thick and rich looking, probably 10' minutes longer. Pour over plums and keep for use. Length of time syrup ne^s to boil depends a little on fire and nature of plums. Raspberry Jam. Mash rasps to a pulp in a basin. Add sugar, weight for weight. Boil 5 minutes. Cover when hot. To Preserve Raspberries. To 1 lb. of fruit quite ripe add 1 lb. finely-sifted sugar. Make the sugar as hot as possible without scorching, put it to the fruit, and stir till every particle of sugar is dissolved. Put it in jars, and tie down with bladder. It will keep for a year, and looks just like fresh raspberries crushed with sugar. Red Currant Jelly. Heat berries in pan at side of range and squeeze juice. Add 1 lb. sugar to every pint of juice and merely bring right through the boil. Red Currant Jelly. 4 lb. Currants, 1 lb. Easps. Put on in pan w'ith 4 breakfastcups w^ater, and allow to heat grad- ually. Boil gently 10 minutes. Strain. Add sugar, 1 lb. to 1 pint juice, and ^ lb. over. Boil 5 minutes. Red Currant Jelly (2). Put 7 lb red currants in preseawing pan with sufficient water to peep through (not cover) berries; let boil gently for fully f of an hour, stirring frequently to prevent sticking. Strain through jelly bag. Put 1 lb. “Glebe Granulated Srrgar” to one very large breakfastcupful of juice, and boil five minutes; pot and cover at once. To Bottle Red Currants. Pick currants from stalks, and put on a flat dish. Sprinkle over with crushed lump sugar, 1 lb. sugar to a quart (English) of fruit. Leave all night. Put in pan and bring to boil. Boil 1 minute. Pour into basin to cool. Then put in jars and cover at once.