TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 1^1, must keep them as white as possible. Change water when steeping, but always keep them lying in water. Fried Sweetbreads. 1 nail' Sweetbreads, i lb. Bread Crumbs, i teaspoonful Salt, \ P®bPer, ^ 3 orSer! i lb. Tomatoes, 2 E-gs. o.. Flour, i pint Milk, i gill Cream, 1 teaspoonful Lemon .Tiiice. • i i . Blanch sweetbreads, press' them, cut in neat pieces, brush over with beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs, set aside for 10 minutes. Repeat process, then, fi^ in boiling fat. Melt 2 oz. butter in pan, sta- in flour smoothly, add seasoning and milk gradually. .Mir till boiling, boil 3 minutes, add cream and lemon juice. Dish sweetbreads one overlapping the other in the centre of the dish. Pour- sauce round. Have the iomatoe'S in a basin, covered with lK)iliiig water for 2 nun- utes, skinned, sliced and cooked very gently in 1 oz. butter. Put in centre of sweetbreads, and garnish with fried croutons. Cradle of Sweetbreads. Cut a piece of liread, mark it, egg, bread-cruml), and fry in boiling fat pale lirown. Take out lid and scoo]) out all the soft bread with a fork. Prepare sivectln-eads. Bring to boil. 'Wash. Pub on in fresh water, boil 30 minutes. Turn iiito cold water. Remove all fat and brea.k into small jneces. Cook till tendeh Egg, bread- 'cruinb, and fry till crisp. I'dll bread cases wilb them and serve. Toad in the Hole. 1 lb. of good beef steak ; cut, at least, an inch thick ; place in a n-i-eased baking tin, some of them standing on edge. Make batter with 2 eggs, 1 pint milk, 2 tublespoonfuls of flour, and a pinch of salt. Pour this into tin, taking care tliab the two. or tlireo coiitro pieces of meat have their ‘‘lieads” aliovo the batter. Bake Iionr. To Clean Tripe. Wash thorouglily in cold water. Put il in a pot with cold water in which there is a good joiece of soda. Let it get hot, but don’t allow to boil. Take it out, and scrape it white. Let it lie all night in cold •w'ater w-ith a little butter milk in it, and ue\t day it will be ready for cooking. Tripe and Onions. Wash in clean water, and put- it on with plenty cold w'ater, and let it boil' for il hours 07- longer Take it out; cut tripe into neat pieces, and boil again for fully hour in milk, to which has been added a little flour (which has been fii’st mixed smoothly in cold Avater or milk), and 2 large onions cut into joieces. Stir occasioually, taking- core that the liouid is not all dned up before taking it off the fire. Tripe, Baked. Take 1 lb. Avell-cooked tripe and cut into strip.?. Place some of these into well-greased pie-di.sh. Spriidvle over some bread crumbs, some more tripe, and so on till dish is full. Beat up 2 good-sized eggs, very thoroughly; add a breakfastcupful milk, or liquor in which the tripe ivas boiled, and a pinch pepper and .salt. Pour this very sloAvly into pie-dish, bireak some pieces of butter over top, and bake in moderate oven till firm to touch and of a nice golden coloui