TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 19a In Case of Fire. If yotir own dress, tlirow yourself at once on the ground (so that the rising haanes may not catch the upper part of your clothes, nor burn your head and chest); roll about (so putting the flames out by pressure); and at Uie same time, if possible, wrap yourself up closely in a rug, hearth rug, blanket, table cloth, overcoat, or carpet (so as to smother the fire.) Do not get up to call for assistance, but for that purpose crawl to the bell rope or door. If another person’s dress, throw the pei'son on fire down at once, wrap him or her up in a rug or something similar, or, if there is no- thing at hand suitable, use your own coat, rolling the patient about in it (for the purpose of smothering the flames). A woman rendering help in this way must exercise grea.t self-possession, and be careful not to get her own clothes entangled in the flames. Fomentation (1). For fomenting a knee, foot, or ankle, a good-sized half blanket is neoessaiy. Fold this one way till it is 20 inches broad ; lay it out on a table, and sprinkle sparingly boiling water across one end. Roll this end over, and sprinkle the roll; turn over again, and sprinkle again, and so on till the whole is rolled up. Thoroughly knead and twist it, so that all is permeated by the moist heat. (Dr Kirk.) Fomentation (2). Take a bowl, place a towel (to be used as a wringer) across it, and put the fomentation flannel in the towel; then pour boiling water •over it. Fold over the sides of the towel, with the flannel inside. Take the ends, one in each hand, and wring out the water. Take the fomentation in the towel to the bedside; put it on where required, and cover with jaconette or some waterproof material, and flannel binder. Fomentation of Camomile Flowers. 2 oz. Camomile Flowers. Put into a jar with 2 teacupfuls of water; cover jar very close; let it come to the boil, and infuse for 16 minutes, keeping lid close on jar all the time. Strain off the hot liquor ; keep it hot; dip pieces of flannel into it, and apply externally to the pait affected. Good to allay swelling and inflammation. Elder flowers and poppy heads same way. To Keep Ice. Tie a piece of very coarse flannel over a wide-mouthed jar, mak- ing it bag in centre. Put in ice and cover with another piece of flannel folded several times. To' break the ice use strong darning needle or stocking wire. Substitute for Ice. Soak cloths in equal proportions of rnilk and methylated spirit. (The coldest lotion one can have.) Galling: in Persons confined to Bed, to Prevent. The white of an egg, beaten tO’ a strong froth, then drop in grad- ually whilst you are beating two teaspoonfuls of spirits of wine ; put it into a bottle, and apply occasionally wdth a feather G