103 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Apple Pudding: (2). fi large Apples, 2 oz. Hut,tor, \ lb. Bread Crumbs, 2 Eggs, 2 oz. Sugar, grated rind of Lemon. 1 gill Milk, Nutmeg to flavour. Peel ami slice apple.s, and stew slowly with sugar and a little water till tender. Add buttei', bread crumbs, milk, eggs well beaten, nutmeg, and lemon rind. Mix all well, and pour into greased pie- dish. Sprinkle top of iiiixture with brown bread crumbs, put small pieces of butter on top, and Ijake i liour. Apple and Rice Pudding:. Apple.9, Kice, Sugar, Lemon (grated), 2 I'lggs. Stew as many apples witli sugar as will nearly fill the dish. Have ready boiled ^ teacupful of rice and a little grated lemon peel, and add to the apples. Bake Ibis for 20 minutes. Put on the top the white of the eggs whipped to a rocky snow, iTud brown slightly. Apple and Sagfo Pudding:. 4 large Ajiples, 1 teaeupfiil of Sago, Sugar, and Lemon Llavouring. Stew the apples (pared and sliced) to a pulp, in ^ pint of water.- Boil the sago in 1 pint of water till clear (10 minutes). Add the pulp, sugar, and flavouring, and bake ;/ liour. Apple Turnover. G large Apples for 8 Turnovers, Sugar. For pastry—i lb. Flour, G oz. Butter, a little Salt, i teaspoonfnl Baking Powder, Water to moisten all. Cut pastry in eight jiarts, and roll each into rounds of ^ inch thickness. Peel and slice apples very thin. Place sufficient in centre of crust, with teaspoonfnl sugar and a little clove or cinnamon. Wet edges, turn crust over, and pinch together. Crease a tin, brush the turnovers with yolk of egg, and bake about J hour. Apricot Custard. Scraps of Pastry, 1 pint of Milk, 3 Eggs, Vanilla, i oz. of Castor Sugar, Apricots (tinned or preserved), 1 oz. of Eatafias. Line your pie-dish with any scraps of nice pastry you may have. Then beat rq) the egg, add the milk, sugar, and flavouring. Pour it into the dish, and let it cook very slowly. When it is beginning to set, stir in carefully some tinned or preserved apricots, cut into small pieces. Then finish the baking till the custard is quite firm. Put it aside till cold, when you should grate the ratafias thickly over the top. Then sprijd\le these over with “hundreds and thousands.” Apricot Pudding: (1). Take a tin of apricot or egg plum, and place them in a deep glass dish. Cover them with sponge-cake, sliced; pour the apricot syrup, and a little sifted sugar over the whole; make a cornflour blanc-mange, using the yolks of 2 eggs, and pour over the sponge-cakes. Whip the whites of eggs into a stiff froth, and place over it—(or whipped cream). Apricot Pudding: (2). Sponge-Cakes, tin of Apricots, Gelatine, Loaf Sugar, Lemon, Cream. Line a basin or glass with the stale sponge-cakes (sliced); fill the centre with halved apricots. Dissolve a dessertspoonful of gela- tine, add 2 oz. sugar, and .squeeze of lemon juice iu -k pint of the juice of tlie apricots, and pour over apricots. Cover with more sponge- cakes. Press mixture on the top with saucer or plate, and a weight on it, and leave till next day. Serve with whipped cream or custard.