TRIED FAYOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. plate, and when quite cool mash and put in pan with butter, cream, and a small saltspoon salt. Mix all well together, and simmer till hot. Brown Sauce. 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, \ pint stock, 1 tablespoon ketchup, pep- per and salt. A little bovril may be added. Brown Sauce (Vegfetarian). Mix 1 oz. flour, and 1 oz. butter in a small saucepan, stirring till it browns; add enough boiling water to make it the consistency of Cream, with pepper and salt. 1 tablespoonful ketchup may hc added, if liked. Browning; for Soup. Put 1 oz. of brown sugar in an iron saucepan, with 1 spoonful ot water and a tinv piece of butter. Stir with iron, spoon till bi'owned a dark colour. Add a teacupful of cold water, and boil for 10 minutes. Strain, and bottle for colouring soups and sauces. Use a teaspoonfq} to colour your soups and sauces, if not already broAvn enough. OR, Butter bottom of pot. Add ^ lb. brown sugar. Stir slowly over fire till dark brown, but not burnt. Add gradually a tiny drop at a time of water, stiiTing oonstantly till quite smooth. Bottle for use. Browning; for Soup (2). i lb. Browu Sugar, 1 tablespoonful Water. Put intq pan and stir steadily over fire till it becomes a deep dark brown colour. Then add 1 cupful boiling water and 1 teaspoonful salt. Boil a minute longer, bottle and keep corked. One tablespoonful wull colour a clear soup, and- it can be used for many jellies, gravies, and sauces. T Browning; for Soup (3). Mix ^ lb. dark chicory in 1 quart cold water, Boil for 16 min- utes. Then strain and bottle for use. Maitre d’hotel Butter. 1 oz. Butter, tablespoonful cboppe<l Parsley, teaspoonful Lemon Juice, Salt, and Pepper. Mix all together cold. To be spread over steak, fish, &o. Caper Sauce. 1 oz. Butter, i oz. Flour, Pepper, Salt, 1 pint Liquor, 1 tablespoonful Capers. Make sauce as directed for riielted butter, using ^ pint of the liquor the meat was boiled in instead of water, and when sauce has boilqd stir in the capers, either whole or finely chopped. Let it boil one minute to take off the crispness of the capers. Celery Sauce for Boiled Fowl. 2 heads Celery, 1 teacupful Stock, in which Chicken or Turkey was boiled, 1 teacup Milk, Salt, and Nutmeg; 1 large tablespoon Flour, and 1 do. Butter. Wash, trim, ancl boil celeiy in salted water till tender; drain, and cut in pieces ^ inch long. Thicken stock with flour, add butter, salt, and nutmeg, and, lastly, milk. Stir and beat till smooth. Put in celery and heat almost to boiling point, stirring ah the time. If celery out of season take 1 teaspoon celery salt. Cauliflower sauce may be made in same way.