244 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. USEFUL TO KNOW IN HOUSE-KEEPING. For ventilation, open your windows both at top and bottom. The fresh air imshes in, one way, while the foul makes its exit the other. This is letting in jmur friend and expelling your enemy. Bees’ wax and salt mixed will make a rusty flat iron as smooth as glass. To remove rust from Are irons, nib over with plenty of linseed oil, and let it soak in for three days. Then wipe oft', and polish with flnely powdered, unslaked lime till the rust disappears. If to be laid by for a time, smear freely with vaseline. Emery poAvder will remove ordinaiy stains from white ivory knife handles. ' To Cement Lioosened Knife Handles at Home.—Mix 4 parts reain, 1 part bees’ wax, and 1 part plaster of Paris. Fill hole in handle with cement, then heat steel of handle nearly red-hot, and press it firmly into the cement. Scatter a mixture of borax and powdered sugar about tire haunts of cockroaches, and they will disappear. Or pour a strong solution of alum in boiling water over their happy hunting-ground. Clusters of cloves hung up in rooms and allowed to dry will drive away flies better than fly papers. Soak a tooth-brusli overnight in a glass of water, and it will pre- vent hairs coming out, and last twice as long. Sometimes a looking-glass loses “the grip,” and Avill not stay in position, the screw behind being useless. Tie a coloured ribbon rourid the. middle of a coi’k, and hang it at the side. Place it in proper position between glass and stand, and your trouble is at an end. To stop a leak, mix whiting and yellow soap into a thick paste with a little Avater. Apply this to the place where the leakage is, and it will be instantly stopped. A visit from the plumber will stiU be necessary, but there is no special hurry for more radical repairs. Corks may be made air-tight and water-tight by being immersed in oil for 5 minutes. A cork will fit any bottle if boiled for 6 minutes pi'eviously. A convenient substitute for a corkscrew Avhen the latter is not at hand may be found in the use of a common screw, with an -attached string to pull out the cork. Wliite paper should not be used for wrapping round articles that are to be put aAvay, for the chloride of lime in it will destroy the colour of the fabric. YelloAvish or blue paper is far the best for that purpose. Hot liquid may be poured with safety into any glass vessel by holding it up in the hand and not alloAving it to rest on the table. _ Newspapers laid smoothly inside dresses folded for packing will prevent creases. A package or envelope sealed Avith Avhite of egg cannot be steamed open. To keep away insects from birds’ cages, suspend a small bag of sulphur inside. A lump of camphor (price Id) in the cheat -where silver is kept,