186 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Gruel. Take 1 tablespoonful oatmeal, ^ pint water, and pinch of salt. Put oatmeal in basin and pour cold water over. Let it soak 20 or 30 minutes. Then with a spoon press all the flour from the oatmeal, and pour into the pan, leaving meal as dry as possible. Keep stirring till it boils. Boil very slowly, with a pinch of salt, for 16 or 20 minutes. You may use milk instead of water to cook it, or half milk and water. If butter is allowed, you may put it in basin, before you pour gruel in ; or if you want sweet gruel, put sugar in before pouring gruel in. Water gruel or weak tea assists perspiration; milk and coffee retard it. Effervescing: Gruel. An old advice, when a person has got a slight cold is—take an oatmeal gruel and go to bed. Some mix into the gruel, after the meal is strained out, a bit of fresh butter and a little sugar. But an effer- vescing gruel is not well known. When the gruel is prepared in the usual manner, and the meal strained off, sufficient boiling water and milk is added to make the gruel thin enough to drink from a break- fast cup. Then have ready the juice of the lemon, strained. Put in the gruel as much carbonate of soda as will cover a sixpence. Stir in the lemon juice and drink the gruel during effervescence.' This will counteract a chill and help to produce sleep. Invalids’ Jelly. 1 oz. Q-elatinc, 3 oz. Lump Sugar (or to taste), 1 Egg, 1 pint cold Water, \ pint Orange Juice or Lemooi Juice (to taste). Soak the gelatine in the water about 20' minutes. Rub the sugar on the oranges or lemons to extract colour and flavour, taking care not to mb t® the white jDith, or the jelly will be bitter, Put sugar, ^•elatine, and water intO' a very clean saucepan, and stir it over a slow neat until quite dissolved. Then add the juice (strained), let it just get hot, relnove it from the fire, have the egg ready beaten in a basin, pour the jelly over it gradually, stirring well. Let it cool, stirring a few times to mix it thoroughly with the egg. Pour it into wetted hiould. Koumiss Milk Wine. 1 quart Butter-milk, 2 quarts Sweet Milk, 4 teaspoonfuls Sugar. Mix the butter-milk and sweet milk together, add the sugar, and stir till melted. Let it stand near the kitchen fire foo.’ 12 hours, cov- ered with a cloth. Then bottle; as it is an effervescing drink, the corks must be tied down, and the bottles kept on their sides. When the koumiss is opened, it should be used right off. Irish Moss Pudding: for Invalid. Get from chemist a packet of Irish moss. Soak a small quantity for \ hour in tepid water, pour off, and remove anjr little black pieces of weed. Then put into a double pan with milk, and cook slowly for fully two hours. Strain, mix with cream, sugar, and flavouriflg. Van- illa or Cinnamon, then bring to boil stirring, then pour into a small w«t eup or mould, and turn out when cool and firm. Give a spoonful •r tw* at a time. Will keep for a week in cold Aveather. May be boiled in water alone and flavoured with lemon juice, or taken warm or cold and solid. Good in chest or throat troubles.