TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 9 back all fat, &o. Mix flour, pepper, and salt together on plate, and toss kidney in it. Put kidney in pan with the melted butter and stir till nicely browned. Pour on water, and let it simmer for If or 2 hours. Skim frequently and stir often, to keep it from sticking to the pan. Put the tomatoes into a pan with the other vegetables and salt, sugar, and lemon juice, and cook till^ tender. Rub all these through a sieve, and add to kidney, and .stir till boiling. Leek Soup. ^ 1 lb. Potatoes, thinly sliced; 4 good sized Leeks, cut in slices of 2 inches thick; 1 stick of white part of Celery, cut into dice. Melt 2 oz. dripping in pan. Stir potatoes, leeks, and celeiy in this with a wooden spoon for 5 minutes, but do not brown. Sprinkle over vegetables ^ teaspoonful pepper and teaspoonful salt. ^ Add 2 pints stock or water. Simmer gently 1^ hours. Cut small dice of toast, put into tureen, and pom- soup over. Leintil Soup (1). 1 pint Lentils (Egyptian), a good sized Onion, Pepper, Salt, 1 pint Milk or Stock, Flour, and i teaep'ionful of Curry Powder. Soak lentils previous night. Boil them and onion in sufiicient water to cover them, till tender, and pass through sieve. Thicken the milk with flour, and add to the lentils with salt, pepper, curry powder, and a lunip of sugar, and bring all to the boil and serve hot. Lentil Soup (2). 1 lb. Lentils soaked overnight, 1 Carrot, 1 Turnip, 1 Onion or 2 Leeks, Dripping size of an egg, 10 breakfastcupfills cold Water, a small pinch of Carbonate of Soda. When boiling, add vegetables, roughly cut up. Boil for 2 hours, then strain, and return to pot. Add pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and a little vinegar just before serving. Servo with sippets of toast. Lentil Soup (White). i lb. Split Lentils, 2 stalks Celery, 2 sprigs Parsley, 1 Onion, oz. Butter, li oz. Flour, i pint Milk, i pint Cream, 3 pints cold Water, small blade Mace, 8 white Peppercorns, Salt and Pepper. Wash the lentils well in several waters, then put on to boil with the cold water. Skim well as the soup comes to the boil, then add the celery, mace, parsley, onion, and peppercorns. Boil rather quickly IJ hours. Pass soup through a hair sieve. Put the butter and flour into a small saucepan, rub over the fire with a wooden spoon; add the milk, a little at a time, and stir one way until it boils and thickens; then add a little of the strained soup. Put the thickening and the rest of the soup (smoothly mixed) into a clean saucepan and bring to boil. Just before serving add the cream, pepper, and salt. Serve with sippets of fried bread. Spring Lentil Soup. Put 1 oz. butter or dripping in large pan, add J lb. onions sliced, and simmer with lid on over gentle heat for 15 minutes. Add f lb. well-washed lentils and 3 pints water, salt and pepper. Simmer gently for 2 hours, put through sieve, and return to pot. When boiling, add thin slices carrot and turnip no thicker than a sixpence. Boil ^ hour longer. Then add a few green peas and some chopped parsley and boil 16 minutes.