140 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. and tender ; then press through a sieve, and while still warm, add to it another \ lb. sugar and a pint of cream; or new milk will do. Stir well, and grate a little nutmeg over top. Honeycomb Cream. 1 oz. Gelatine, li pints Milk, Sugar to taste, 3 Eggs, teaspoonful Vanilla. Soak the gelatine in the milk till soft; place in a double pan the gelatine, sugar, and milk, and make warm to dissolve the gelatine. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add them slowly, and bring them all to the boil; then add vanilla. Take the pan off the fire, whisk the whites of eggs, and stir in lightly. When the mixture is nearly cold, pour it into a wetted mould, and leave it till cold before turning out. The appearance is half jelly and half cream. Jack Frost’s Snowballs. Dissolve 1 oz. of gelatine in a pint of new milk. Then add an- other ^ pint, and boil in it a teacupful of fine sago and J lb. of lump sugar. Let all boil together for 20 minutes, pour the mixture into six small china moulds or teacups, which have been well soaked in cold water, and leave until the next day. Turn out the little moulds in a glass dish, and garnish with stewed fruit or jam. Arrange on the top of each mould a little whipped cream, which ornament with “ hundreds and thousands,” or powdered sugar coloured with cochineal. Whites of eggs and sugar may take the place of the whipped cream. A Leche Cream. Put in pan 1 pint milk, put in basin tablespoonful fiour; add 1 gill milk and 2 dessertspoonfuls sugar, free from lumps. Put yolks of 4 eggs into another basin, and mix with another gill of milk. When milk in pan is hot, add it to that with flour; return to pan, and stir over fire till boiling, so as to cook flour. Then pour in egg mixture. Stir till it thickens, but do not boil; flavour with grat^ rind of lemon. Take 4 oz. ratafia biscuits; place at bottom of crystal, and over them 3 oz. grated cocoa-nut; pour over the flour custard; sprinkle more cocoa-nut over, with a little powdered sugar. Slightly brown under the grill, and then add plenty castor sugar, flavoured with a little essence. Lemon Jelly. 1 lb. Sugar, 6 Lemons, 1 pint Water, 2 oz. Gelatine. Dissolve gelatine and sugar in water on fire. Squeeze the juice of lemons, and grate the rinds into it. Bring to the boil, strain through muslin, and pour into a mould. Lemon Snow. i oz. Leaf Gelatine, rind o<f 2 Lemons, i pint Water, 2 oz. Loaf Sugar. Put in pan and stir till gelatine is dissolved. Put juice of lemon in basin with whites of 2 eggs. Strain mixture over this, and whisk till stiff. Put half in one basin and colour pink, keep other half white. Put in glass dish, spoonful white and pink alternately. Sprinkle sugar over. If you prefer to keep all white, whip till marks are left in snow. Lemon Spongfe (1). Whites of 8 Eggs, i oz. Sheet Gelatine, teacupful Water, tabkspoonful Sugar, iuice of 2 Lemons. Put water and gelatine on the fire to melt. Put whites into a