340 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. small pieces to fill the bottle. Then cover with either lavender water or Eau-de-Cologno. MiUc is said to be more digestible if shaken. (May place a cup over the tumbler.) This is because of the admixture of air. Wash tube of baby’s bottle with piece of tape (white) and a bodkin. Bristles are liable to come out of brush. Blisters should not be out open, but a white cotton thread should be passed through to drain them. Oranges eaten the first thing in the morning will often cure dyspepsia, or grapes can be substituted for oranges. Nothing is better for heartburn than a quarter of a teaspoonful of baking soda mixed in a little sour milk, and taking it will give instant relief. If a child receives a blow causing a bruise immediately smear a small lump of fresh butter on the part affected, and renew it every five minutes for some time. Olive oil may be used if fresh butter is not at hand. For a tight hoarse cough, sip hot water often. This will give immediate relief. A little lemon juice may be added to water. For Hoarseness.—A good remedy is to bake a lemon as you would an apple. Squeeze a little of the thickened juice (heated always) over lumps of sugar and take frequently. Borax is also excellent for loss of voice. People who suffer from perspiring feet will be benefited by bath- ing them with warm water (not hot), to which a little ammonia is added. When dry, dust them over with a little boracic poAvder. For freckles and sunbuni, 2d elder flower water and a tablespoon- ful white rose perfume. Dab over and all skin blemishes Avill quickly disappear. Burns, Scalds, and Insect Bites. A simple and efficacious remedy for these is always at hand, but not sufficiently known. It is treacle. If the bum be on the extremities, take a sufficienb quantity of ti'eacle to plunge the affected part in it. Wliere this is not practicable, apply a piece of cotton wool saturated in the symp to' the bum, and tie it over loosely with a bandage. Ra^v onions, pounded and applied to burns, will give immediate relief. Bites of insects Avill be greatly r-elieved by touching the spot with a drop gf ammonia. It neutralises the poi^n, and consequently soothes the pain. The pain caused by insect bites will also be relieved by putting a little damp salt over the part affected and binding it round tightly with a bandage. COLD WATER AS A PURIFIER. Much is talked noAvadays of the good of the various disinfectants that science has brought fonvard in the last few years. In straining after new ideas we are apt to overlook many good and simple remedies. Fresh cold water is a powerful absorbent of gases, therefore it should be greatly used in a sick room, or in one which cannot be fiequently ventilated. A bowl of cold water, kept in such a room and changed daily, is of great assistance in purifying the air. This, of course, shows that water Avhich has stood in a close apartment is moroughly unfit for drinking purposes. A bowl of water changed daily, plac^