5 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Croutons for Soup, &c. Cut gomo bread J inch thick; stamp out in rounds. Put \ lb. butter into a pan, and melt; pour off the top into a fiying pan, and make it a light brown. ThroAV in the bi’ead, and fry a golden colour. Drain on soft paper, and serve. Curried Vegetabie Soup. li oz. Butter, 1 large Onion, 2 large Apples, or Eluibarb, or Green Goose- berries, 2 oz. Carolina liice, 1 tablespoonful Curry Powder, 1 teaspoon- ful Curry Paste, 1 tablespoonful Vinegar, 1 Carrot, Turnip, white of 2 Leeks, 1 stick Celery, sprigs Parsley, Thyme, and Marjoram, Bay Leaf, Salt, Pepper, squeeze Lemon Juice, 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls Cream (may be left outl, 2 quarts Water. Wash and cut up vegetables roughly ; scald, dry, and chop onion,; peel, core, and chop apples. Boil rice asi for curiy; melt butter, in pan, and fry onions ancl apples, not too brown; add curry, and mix well, then vegetables. Toss a little, then add rice and vinegar. When fat is completely absoiLed, add water and seasoning. Simmer 2 hours, till vegetiibles are quite soft and pulpy; strain through wire sieve, rinse pan, and returui and warm up. Season again. If required, add lemon juice and cream; or cream may be put in tureen. Fish Soup (1). Bones, Skin, Head, and Pins of any fish. Milk, Parsley, Cornflour, Curry Powder, Pepper, and Salt to taste. Boil fish in water for over an hour, strain and measure the liquid. -Add an equal quantity of milk, thicken with cornflour, flavour with curry powder (if liked), pepper, and salt to taste. Bring to the boil, and just before dishing fling in a handhil of chopped parsley. Fish Soup (2). Procure head and shoulders of Cod, and a small Pish. 2 Carrots, 1 Turnip, 2 Onions, 2 sticks of Celery, 1 Parsnip (if liked), i pint Milk, Butter (size of an egg), a few Cloves, and a little Mace, 2 tablespoonfuls Plour. Pepper and Salt to taste. Pick fleshy pieces from the cod and lay aside. Put all the rest in pot, with 2 quarts of water (cold), and all the vegetables cut up. Boil 2 hours and strain. Add butter, milk, pepper, and salt to taste, and thicken with the flour, adding the fleshy pieces of fish, and boil 5 minutes, with minced parsley to flavour it, if desired. Seiwe hot. Forcemeat Balls for Soup. 1 oz. finely minced Suet, 2 oz. Bread Crumbs, a little Lemon grated, do. Nut- meg, Salt and Pepper, a little Parsley, do. Thyme, and as much beaten Egg as is necessary to moisten. Form into balls. DrojD into boiling water for 5 minutes to poach them. Then add to soup. Fruit Soup (German Recipe). Fruit of any kind is used for this, but Black Currants and Easps preferi’sd. (To have this soup for winter, preserve the fresh fruit, hermetically sealed.) Take 16 lb. of fruit, 2 quai'ts of water, 2 lb. sugar, bring to boil and simmer for 20 minutes. Put into wide-mouthed jars thoroughly heated, filled to the very top, and sealed at once. When wanted for use, empty a jar into enamelled pan with a little more water, boil for a few minutes, bruise well through colander, put back to pan, add a little cornflour and sugar to taste, when boiling. This is nice with