TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 131 Apple Snow. Take 1 lb. apples ; cut in pieces and stew to a pulp; press through a wire sieve or colander. Add the white of an egg and white sugar to taste. Whip all together till white and frothy; pile on a glass dish, and, if liked, sprinkle with pink sugar, llhubarb, when tender, may be done in the same way. Apple Souffle. Put 1 lb. apples, 1 oz. butter, and Denierara sugar to taste, to cook with a little water. Rub through sieve, add tablespoonful bread crumbs, and yolks of 2 eggs. Line pie-dish with pastry round sides. Put bread cimsts, or peas or beans, in, and bake pastry. Whip whites stiffly, add to apples, turn into pastry, and cook in oven 7 or 10 min- utes. Sprinkle sugar over. Serve hot. Apple Trifle. 4 or 5 apples stewed to pulp, then rubbed through a hair sieve. Sweeten to taste. Make a custard with 2 yolks and one white of egg, 2 teacupfuls of milk. Heat the milk, pour it over the eggs ; strain into a jug, set the jug in a pan of boiling water, and stir with wooden spoon till the custard thickens and coats the spoon. Pour into a bowl and flavour to taste. ' When cold, pour over the apples; cover with whipped cream, and serve. Clear Apples. 8 large Apples, 8 oz. Lump Sugar, 1 pint Water, 4 pint Whipped Cream. Make a syrup by boiling the sugar and water together for hour. Pare and core the apples, keeping them whole; put them as you pare them in cold water to keep them white. Put apples in pan, pour the boiling syrup over, and leave on the fire for a few minutes. Take out carefully and place on glass dish. Make syrup pink, with a few drops cochineal, and pour it over the apples. Serve cold, with a teaspoonful whipped cream on each apide. Gingfer Apples.. Talce 7 bs. American apples ; pare, core, and put them into cold water to preserve the colour. Take weight for weight of crystallized sugar. Put \ jDint water to the lb. of sugar on fire, and let it come to the boil. Then put in ajiples and f lb. whole ginger. Let them boil till they become transparent—nearl}’ an hour on a pretty quick fire. Divide apples in quarters. OR, Boil sugar till quite clear; put in the fruit, boil for 20 minutes. Then put in 2 oz. essence of ginger, boil other 10 minutes. Put in 2 more oz. of ginger, and boil till fruit is quite transparent. Apricot Cream. oz. gelatine dissolved in 1 gill milk. Whip to stiff froth, 1 gill double cream. Take‘|- tin apricots. Cut apricots in small pieces, add 1 tablespoon of the syrup and 1 dessertspoon castor sugar. Mix apricots and sugar with the cream, then add the gelatine and milk. Pour into mould and set. Baked Bananas. Take 3 bananas weighing 1 lb. Bake them 20 minutes, and serve hot. The nourishment in them is equal to 6 lbs. of bread. They are perfectly digestible, and the most easily assimilated of all fruits.