45 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. ENTREES, &C. Hugon's Beef Suet is most convenient to have by you. Sprinkle a little salt on the bottom of the frying-pan, and the fat will not splash the stove or grate when frying meat,sausages, &c. Browned Mince of Beef. Eemains of co?4 Eoast, i as much mashed Potatoes, 1 cupful Gravy, season- ing of Pepper, Salt, Mustard, and Ketchup. Make all very hot in saucepan. Pile on dish, cover with bread crumbs, put little hits of butter over, and brown quickly in oven. Minced Beef with Mushrooms. 1 lb. Steak, minced, i pint Stock, small Onion, 2 oz. Putter, J oz. Flour, 1 doz. Mushrooms, Pepper, Salt, 6 or 8 rounds of Bread, 2 inches across. Fi’y minced onion in 1 oz. butter, add flour and stock, also steak, 4 mushrooms minced, and seasoning. Simmer slowly | hour. Fry remainder of mushrooms in rest of butter, then the rounds of bread. Place a mushroom on each piece of bread. Place round ashet, and pour mince in centre. Bubble and Squeak. Cut in pieces convenient for frying, cold roast or boiled beef; add pepper and salt, and fry them. Have a cabbage boiled and chopped small, and fry with a. little pepper and salt. Keep stirring, that all may be equally done; sprinkle over cabbage when taken from the fire a very little vinegar, only enough to give it a slightly acid taste. Place cabbage in centre of dish, and arrange meat neatly round it. Cold Meat Cookery. Take a pie-dish and put a layer of potatoes in bottom, then a layer pf pieces of cold meat, then a layer of fried tomatoes and onions; continue thus until the dish is full; add two hard-boiled eggs and good gravy, in which put a little Worcester sauce; then cover with a crust made of butter and flour. Mince Collops. Put them into pan over a moderate fire. Stir them well with a fork till the pieces are quite separate, othenvise they will run into knots; cover them, but not more, with hot water, adding pepper and salt, and a little flour (which must be mixed smoothly with cold water before putting in). Simmer for at least f hour. Longer time will not ■spoil them. Croquettes. There is no better way of using up scraps of cold meat, too small for many other dishes, than making them into croquettes. The foun- dation of all croquettes is a cream. For this put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan; as it melts, dredge in 2 oz. flour, mix smoothly, and then add gradually a gill of milk. This must be stirred evenly over a gentle heat till it thickens to the consistency of thick cream, then turn on to a plate to cool. To ^ pint of such cream removed from the