246 TRIED EAWOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. will keep it free from tarnish; or rub a little olive oil over it. When needed, wash in wann scwip water and dry thoroughly. Wash silver ornaments in borax and water. To clean gold jewellery with the stones in, wash in warm suds, made with yellow soap, with 10 or 15 drops of sal-volatile in it. This makes jewellery veiy brilliant. When replacing stoppers in bottles, give them a twist round, and they will never stick. Egg-ahells crushed into small bits, and shaken well in water bottles, etc., three parts filled Avith cold water, will not only clean them thoroughly, but make the glass look like new. Glass bottles which have contained oil are very difficult to clean; but if they are required for any other purpose, try the following: — Fill the bottle with wishes, and place it in cold water, which heat gradually till it boils. Let it boil half an hour, then let the bottle remain in the water till cold. Then wash with soap-suds, rinsing in clear water. A candle may be made to fit any candlestick by dipping it in very hot water. Use squeezed lemons for cleaning brasses and dish covers. Put a pinch of whiting on article to be cleaned, and rub well in, using lemon as a sponge. You will be surprised to see how much dirt comes away witli little trouble, and articles will keep longer clean. To clean inside of candle-stick, tin or enamel, fiU with boiling water. Don’t allow to stand, but pour off and well dry. To preserve old furniture that is becoming worm-eaten, pour a little cai’bolio oil on to it, and rub well in. This will improve its ap- pearance. To Clean Leathei' Chairs.—Mix 1 part vinegar with 2 parts boiled linseed oil. Shake well. Apply sparingly, and polish well. Clean dirty chair covers by rubbing with hot bran. Steel ornaments on range can be made to shine like silver by rubbing with vinegar. A teaspoonful of ammonia in a basin of warm water will make hair-brushes beautifully white, but care must be taken not to let the back dip below the surface. Clean hair-brudies when afraid to wet backs by rubbing thor- oughly with flour, and, when quite clean, remove all traces of flour with dry towel. This also prevents bristles becoming soft. Clean old leather bags by dipping a sponge in warm water in which a little oxalic acid has been dissolved. ■ Shoes that have become stiff and uncomfortable by being worn IB the rain, or that have been lying unused for some time, can be made soft and pliable by vaseline well rubbed in with a cloth, and rubbed off with a dry one. If new boots won’t polish, rub over with half a lemon and leave till thoroughly dry. Kepeat once or twice if necessary. Boots and shoes, however damp, will polish in a few minutes if a drop or two of paraffin oil be added to the blacking. It prevents the leather from cracking. Vamish the soles of your boots, and it will render theiti impervious to damp, and will also make them larti longer.