Hf) TRIED FAYOVRITEE COOKERY BOOK. SCONES, CAKES, &c. To choose Flour take a handful, squeeze it; if it goes into a lumf it is good, because starchy; if it falls away it is bad. A bowl of water in the oven will prevent Pies, Cakes, &c., from burning. Remember that small cakes require oven hotter than large. Do not ofen door of oven for seven minutes for small cakes or fastry, and twenty minutes for large cakes—always opening or closing door very gently, as a sudden action is injurious. Test Cakes, &c., with Skewer or a clean broom straw, KJever move a cake in the oven until the centre is thoroughly set. Seed and pound cakes require rather a hot oven. Light sponge cakes and large cakes zvith baking powder require a moderate oven. A very light cake put in a quick oven rises rapidly round sides, but is hollow in the middle. Cakes burn be- cause the heat of the oven is not reduced after the cake has risen. In baking, a moderate oven is one which a teaspoonful flour will brown while you count thirty; a quick one, where only twelve can be counted. T0 beat butter to a cream, scald the fan, and well dry, before putting in butter and sugar. Will beat it much more easily. Lard is better to grease cake pans zvith than butter. The salt in butter causes the cake to stick. When icing a cake, an excellent plan is to dust a little dry flour over the top of cake before putting on the icing, as, if this is done, the icing is not so likely to run off. Never wash girdle or omelette pan; rub over zvith kitchen paper and salt. An apple kept in the cake box will keep moderately rich cake moist for a great length of time, if the apple be renezved when withered. Cut new bread with a. hot knife. Bakitigr Powder (Excellent). Take equal weights of rice-flour, bi-carbonate of soda, and pow- dered tartaric acid; mix thoroughly, pass through a sieve, and lieep in tins for use. For pastry, use 1 teaspoonful to 1 lb. flour; for cakes, 2 teaspoonfuls to 1 lb. flour. Bread (1). lbs. Flour, 2nds (one quartern), 1 oz. G-erman Yeast, 2 teaspoonfuls Salt. Time for making, J hour, 2 or 3 hours for rising, hours for baking. Put 3 lbs. flour and salt in basin, and make well in centre. Keep ^ lb. back to work bread with. Put 1 oz. yeast in basin, add a little tepid water boiling and § cold). Stir yeast to thick paste, then add water, in all 1 pint and 3 gills lukewarm water, and stir all smoothly. Add water to flour very gradually, stirring with right hand one way in centre only, never sides, until all flour is used up. Sprinkle flour