238 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. health or not. It is^ suitable for all stomach diseases, gravel, liver complaint, inflammation of the bowels, and fever. It is a specific against worms and skin complaints. Lemon juice is the best antiscor- butic remedy known. It not only cures the disease, but prevents it. Sailors make daily use of it for this purpose. I advise every one to rub the gums with lemon juice to keep them in good condition. The hands and nails are kept clean, white, soft, and supple by the daily use of lemon instead of soaj). A teaspoonful lemon juice in a cup of tepid Avater whitens the nails, and removes grease and dirt if fingers are dabbed in it. It also prevents chilblains. Hub hands well with slice of lemon after Avashing. A few drops of lemon juice will mitigate the pain of a bee sting. After bathing a com or bunion in hot Avater, a few drops of lemon juice on the part will be found very soothing. Lemon is often used in intermittent fever, mixed with strong, hot black coffee, Avithout sugar. Neuralgia and headache may be cured by rubbing the parts affected Avith cut lemon. It is valuable also to cure warts. If the hair bo falling out and also to destroy dand- ruff rub the pulp of lemon on the scalp. It will alleviate and finally cure coughs and colds, and heal diseased lungs if boiled 2 minutes and taken hot on going to bed at night. Its uses are manifold, and the more Ave employ it externally the better we shall find ourselves. Lemon juice is good, in removing tartar from the teeth, antifebrile, Ac. A doctor in Home is trying it experimentally in malarial fever with great success, and thinks it will in time supersede quinine. EXTRACTS from Papers on HEALTH, by Prof. KIRK. —Cold baths, while greatly to be recommended for those who are strong, should not be taken by any one who does not feel invigorated by them. As every one should, if possible, bathe daily, the following method is AVO’’th knowing, as it combines all the advantages of hot and cold bathing : —Sponge all over with hot water and wash with M‘Clinton’s soap ; then sponge all over with cold water. No chilliness will then be felt. Very weak persons may use tepid instead of cold water. These baths, taken every morning, will greatly tend to prevent a person catching cold. Cold bathing in water that is hard is a mistake, especially in bathing of infants. The skin under its influence becomes dry. Warm bathing and M'Clinton’s soap will remedy this. Bedsore •—There are cases in which the outer skin has been taken off by long lying, or wearing wet compresses for a long time. A large part of the body is reduced, as some would say, to “ red flesh.” In reality it is reduced to inner skin deprived of its outer layer. We have taken a few handfuls of well-wrought lather of M'Clinton’s soap (prepared as if for shaving, but from toilet soap) and spread it as lightly as possible over their fiery surface. There was an instant change from severe distress to perfect comfort, and healing began at once. This treatment may be applied to any simple abrasions of the skin. Bedsores are not likely to occur if the skin is sponged daily with this mild soap and rubbed with rectified spirits of wine, to which a small piece of camphor has been added.