82 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Horse Radish Sauce. Grate tlie horse radish, add teaspoon salt, pinch of diy mustard, 1 teaspoon castor sugar, and mix all well with a tablespoon cream. Then add a tablespoo^n of milk to a dessertspoon of vinegar, and make to oonsistenoy of thick cream. Glaze. Put in basin 1 oz. gelatine, ^ pint cold water, 3 teaspoonfuls Lie- big, tablespoonful ketchup, teaspQpnful sauce, pinch salt and pepper. Gravy for Roast Meat. When the meat is cooked put it on a hot dish, and pour the dripping into a jar. Pour about a gill of hot stock or water into the dripping-pan, scraping the brown particles off which adhere to the pan, and which colour the gravy. Strain and pour it round the meat, not over it, or it would not be crisp but sodden. .Salt must not on any account be sprinkled on the meat to make gravy, for when the gravy is drawn from the meat the latter becomes di-y and indigestible. If the roast has been sprinkled with flour hour before finishing, gravy is much richer in colour. Mayonnaise Sauce. i pint Salad Oil, 1 dessertspoonful Vinegar, yolk of 1 Egg (raw), a few drops Lemon Juice, J teaspoonful Mustard, a dust of Salt, Pepper, and Cayenne. Put the yolk of egg in a basin ; add mustard, pepper, salt, and cayenne; then the oil, drop by drop, stirring quickly all the time; then vinegar and lemon juice. The sauce must be kept quite stiff. Should sauce curdle, drop in another yolk of egg, and it will be brought to its original state. Melted Butter. 1 oz. butter and 1 oz. flour stirred over fire till flour is absorbed. Add breakfastcupful water or milk. Stir till it boils and thickens. Season with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Sweet Melted Butter. ^ oz. butter and ^ oz. flour stirred over fire till smooth. Add I pint water. Stir till it boils and thickens. Add tablespoonful sugar and a little cinnamon or other flavouring, or add instead 4 tablespoon- fuls raspberry vinegar (Rather thicker than good cream.) Mint Sauce. 3 tablespoonfuls freshly-minced Mint, i pint Vinegar, 1 tablespconfxd Castor Sugar, melted in 1 gill boiling Water. Wlien cold mix the vinegar with it, and add the mint last. Better for standing. Mint Sauce (for keeping;). Wash and pick the mint carefully, and chop up very fine. To 3 tablespoonfuls of chopped mint, add 2 dessertspoonfuls of sugar and 1 teaspoonful salt, and 2 gills white vinegar. 'When you use it, add a little water to the quantity required. Molasses Sauce (for Apple Dumpling;, &c.) 1 pint Treacle, 1 tablespoonful Butter, the juice of 1 Lemon, or a large table- spoonful Vinegar. Boil 20 minutes. May be thickened with a little corn flour, mixed ip p little pold water.