96 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. then prepare some large flat mushrooms by peeling ami cutting oft' the stalks. Fill them with your mixture, and cover with Ijread crumbs and little bits of butter. Put on a greased dish, and broAvn them in the oven. When done, pile them on your dish, and pour a nice brown sauce round in which an onion has been boiled. Mushroom Omelette. Take two eggs and beat to a stiff froth; add pepper aim '^alt; put into a pan a piece of butter size of an egg. When melted, turn egg mixture into it; shake till of a creamy consistency, then lay in centre half-a-dozen mushrooms, prepared as follows;—Skin, break in pieces, put in saucepan, with ^ oz. butter, pepper, and salt, and stew for 5 minutes. Wlien the omelette is brown underneath, turn it over on a hot dish, and serve immediately. Mushroom Toast. j lb. Mushrooms, i oz. Butter, 2 Eggs, Pepper, Salt, Cayenne, small round? or squares of Buttered Toast. Put the butter into a pan ; when hot, add the mushrooms (minced), l^ry three minutes, then add eggs and seasoning. Stir over a gentle fire till set, then pile a small heap on each piece of toast. Garnish with parsley or cress. Omelette of Herbs. ■ Beat up one egg well; add a little minced herbs, and pepper and salt. Have ready ^ oz. butter in an omelette pan ; pour in the egg, and keep shaking it till set. Seiwe on a hot dish immediately. Onion Dumpling:. Take a large onion (Spanish, if it can be got), cut in two, and take out just as much of the heart as will leave room for a little piece of bacon or ham. Make a common paste with flour, suet, and salt, as large as holds the onion. Put the twO' halves of the onion together, and close it up in the paste. Boil in a cloth for 2| hours. A splendid supper dish. Parmesan Custards. 4 Eggs, 1 pint Milk, 2 oz. Butter, 3 tablespoonfuls Parmesau Cheese (grated). Salt, Pepper, Cayenne, and a pinch of Carbonate of So<la. Beat up the eggs, add milk (boiling), cheese, salt, pepper, cay- enne, and soda ; pour into sjuall buttered darioles, stirring all the time, not letting the cheese settle. Stand tire moulds in a stiucepan, letting the water come withiii half-an-inch of the top ; simmer gently till set. Serve on croutons a little larger than the moulds, putting a little itile of grated cheese on the top of each custard, and browning it in front of a brisk fire. Serve with parsley or cress garnish. Parsley Sandwiches. Chop finely some parsley, and mix with it a teaspoonful of auchovy essence and a few drops of lemon juice. Cut thin slices of bread and butter, place a thin layer of parsley on one slice, cover with bread and butter, and make into sandwiches. Cut into three-cornered pieces. Potatoes au Gratin. 1 dozen Potatoes, 2 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Parmesau Cheese (grated). Boil the potatoes with salt till tender. Drain, and dry ; then divide each potato lengthwise. Brush over with butter (melted), and sprinkle with the cheese. Put them in a greased tin, and bake in a hot oven a nice light brown.