TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. fil Carrot Mould. 2 or 3 largo Carrote, 1 Egg, 1 oz. utter, Salt, Pepper, tablespoonful chopped Carrots well washed and scraped, and boiled 2 hours, then drained and rubbed through a sieve. Melt the butter and add to carrots, heat- incr them tlioroughly. Beat the egg and add it with salt and pepper. Grease mould and pour in mixture, and press well down. Place in oven ten minutes, turn on hot dish, and sprinkle on top the paisley, and serve with sauce of melted butter oi floui and milk. Cauliflower, au Gratin. Take a good-sized cauliflower, thorouglily cleanse, and boil until tender; drain, and dish it with tlie flower standing upriglit (a basin is the best thing for this purpose). Pour suflicicnt white sauce over the cauliflower just to cover the top. Sprinkle over some grated parmesan cheese and bread crumbs, and a little Cayenne .pepper and salt; then put a few pieces of butter on the top. Bake in a moder- ately hot oven for about 15 minutes, or until it is a nice brown. Other vegetables, such as fresh peas and beans, onions, parsnips, artichokes and marrow, may be prepared the same way. Before cooking cauliflower, tie it in thin muslin, and it will be easily lifted out of the pan whole. Cauliflower, with Tomato Sauce. Steam the cauliflower until tender; have ready a sauce prepared by thickening 1 pint of strained stewed tomatoes with a tablespoonful of flour, rubbed smooth, in | cupful of cream, and pour over the cauli- flower while hot. Celery, Stewed. 5 oz. Celery, i pint Milk, 1 oz. Butter, i oz. Flour. Break celery into 1 inch pieces; place in pan, with milk enough to cover it. Boil gently till tender ; drain ; season milk with pepper and salt, and thicken with the flour and butter. Boil all a few minutes, and serve on flat dish, garnished with toast sippets. Fried Celery. Select the best pieces, and cut in 3-inch lengths. Dust rather freely with pepper and salt, then dip in beaten egg, and toss in bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat. Chestnuts, Stewed (German Recipe). Take away the shell; then put for a short time in boiling water to remove the inner skin. Put them into a saucepan with a little stock of some kind—bovril will do—then let them simmer away until ready. A little sprinkling of flour is generally added when they are being cooked, about as much as wall lie on the end of a knife. The Italian way of cooking chestnuts for a vegetable is by mash- ing them like turnips, with a little milk or cream. .Colcannon. 1 oz. Onion, equal quantities cold Potatoes and cold Cabbage, 1 oz. Dripping to 1 lb. Vegetables, Pepper and Salt. Chop cabbage; mash potatoes. Toss all in saucepan or frying- pan. Grease basin and put in mixture. Brown before fire or in oven. Cucumber. Peel, cut in 3-in. lengths, then in halves. Scoop out seeds.