TRIED EAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. U7 over clouo'h, and covea- with clean cloth, double. Lay near tlie fire for at least 2 hours, turning occasionally. (If dough is too stiff, use more lukewarm water, as all flour must be used up). When dough has risen sufficiently, work in the rest of the flour, kneading from outside, and poking down in centre, and being careful always to have plenty flour on hands, &c. Knead well until all flour is used up. Divide now in loaves (two), place in tins, &c., or on clean oven tray. ^ This may be floured or greased. Cut or score across bread to assist it to rise. Place near fire to rise, covered with cloth, for ^ hour, then bake for I, hour, trying with skewer to see if ready. Place tins in hottest pait of oven for 15 or 20 minutes, then if browning, turn, and gradually move aside to cooler part. Bread (2). li Ills, riour, 1 oz. Yeast, nearly 1 pint Water, 1 teaspoonful Salt. _ Cream yeast and salt, add warm water to it. Put flour in basin, make well in centre and nse enough flour just to make a sponge. Sprinkle a little flour over, and set to rise for about 1 hour. When risen, work all flour into a sponge, and put on a tin. Set for 10 min- utes, and bake in a quick oven till a good brown colour and, when you can knock it, it sounds hollow. Bread (with Baking; Powder). 1 lb. Flour, 1 heaped teaspoon of Eoyal Baking' Powder, pinch of Suit, tea- spoon of Sugar. Add sweet milk to make to the usual cake thickness; put in pie- dish or cake tin, and bake in a quick oven. Time 30 to 40 minutes. Breakfast Roils. 1 lb. Flour, 2 teaspooufuls Baking Powder, 1 do. Salt, 2 oz. Butter. Mix with about 1 pint sweet milk, make up into twists, pleats, find rings; brush over with egg, bake in hot oven for 10 minutes. Dinner Rolls. 1 lb. Floui’, 1 teaspoonful Sugar, 1 do. Baking Soda, do. Cream of Tartar, a pinch Salt. Sift all through sieve, and rtib into it 1 oz. butter. Mix with pint butter-milk; roll out three times. Cilt in stripes, and twist round, or form into rolls. Bake in a nice quick oven for 10 minutes. Then brush over -with hot water, in which a little butter has been melted. Hot Cross BunSi 1 qiiai't Milk, l2 oz. of Butter, 1 lb. Sugar, 1 oz. mixed spice, 3 Eggs, 2 oz. Gentian Yeasst, St lbs. Flour. Make the milk slightly warm, pilt it in a pan with half the sugar, 6 oz. of flour, the yeast and ep'gs mixed together, and cover in a warm place to rise; when risen with a frothy head, and again fallen and become almost flat, it is ready for the remainder of the ingredients to be mixed with it; the butter should be rubbed in the rest of the flour, and mixed altogether into a mellow dough; make up into buns, cut a cross and bake in a quick oven. Hot Tea Cakes. 4 eupfuks Flour, 1 do. Sugar, 1 Egg, 1 tablespoonful Butter, 2 tftaspoonfuls Eoyal Baking Powder. Mix with sweet milk the usual thickness for cake. When done, cut open and butter either side with salt butter. Kejilace in the oven for a few minutes. *