no TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Wliip creani ami add it with the remaining milk, and then incorpor- ate gradually tlie whisked white of egg when beginning to set. Sprinkle in the halved cherries, and stir for a few minutes before putting in a mould. When firm turn out. This may be varied by using a border mould and filling centre with crushed raisins and macaroons soaked with a little lemon juice or melted raspberry jelly, and dotted about with pink whipped cream. Cherries, Stewed. 1 lb. Cooking Cherries, i pint Water, 6 oz. Sugar. Make a syrup with the sugar and water, that is, just melt the sugar in the water, but don’t allow to boil and thicken. Pour it over cherries and bring quickly to boiling-point, and skim well. Simmer very slowly till tender. Served with boiled custard. Chester Puddingy. 1 oz. Sweet Almonds (crushed), 1 lb. Castor Sugar, 3 Eggs, 2 oz. Butter. Short ."'“astry. Line small pie-dish with the pastry rolled very thinly, decorate edges and brush over edges with beaten egg; Melt butter and sugar in pan, add almonds. Stir in yolks of 3 eggs and whites of 1. Stir this'mixture over a gentle fire till it thickens, taking care it does not burn. Pour into prepared dish, bake ^ hour, or till set. Whip the the remaining 2 whites to stiff froth with 1 tablespoon sugar, and pile on top. Set by putting in oven for a few minutes. Serve either hot*or cold. Chestnut Pudding'. 1| oz. butter, melted, add 1| oz. flour. Mix well, then add H gills milk. Stir over fire till a solid lump. Then add 1 oz. sugar and remove from fire. Add 1 tablespoonful orange flour water, 3 oz, cooked and pounded chestnuts, and 4 yolks of eggs. Add whites beaten, to a stiff froth. Steam 35 minrites in greased mould. Serve with good aiu'icot sauce, made with 3 tablespoonfuls apricot jam, 1 gill water, sugar, and a few drops of yellow colouring. Chestnut Pudding (Cold). \ lb. Cliesfiiuts, i pint Milk, 2 oz. Castor Sugar, 1 gill Cream, few drops Vanilla, or 1 oz. Chocolate Powder, 1 gill Jelly, and 3 sheets Cox’s French Gelatine. Soak gelatine in milk and dissolve on fire with tlie sugar. Cook cliestnuts till tender, remove skin and rub through sievei Strain boiling milk to chestnuts and add cream and chocolate. Mix all together, and pour into wetted mould. Chocolate Pudding. 6 tablespoonfuls of Chocolate, 10 tablespoonfuls of Bread, 1 pint of Milk, yolks of 4 Eggs and the whites of 2, ^ lb. Sugar, and small piece of Butter. Pour milk in a pan with the chocolate and tlie bread crumbs to soak, after which add tlie yolks and 1 white well beaten, also sugar and butter. Put into a gi'eased pudding dish, and bake for ^ hour in a moderate oven. Then beat other white to a stiff froth with a little sugar, and cover pudding. Ret,urn to the oven to brown. Easy Chocolate Pudding. I lb. rock chocolate, grated fine, and laid in crystal dish. Six- pennyworth of double creani, whipped and put on toji.