115 TRIED FA VOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Foamy Omelette. Boat the yolks of 2 eggs until thick and light; add teaspoon salt, ^ saltspoon pepper, and 2 tablespoonfuls milk ; then the 2 whites benton stiff. Spread on a hot buttered omelette pan. Run a knife along the edges, and occasionally underneath, to prevent burning. Let it cook until well Irrown underneatli; dry the top by placing pan and all Ijefore fire, or grill, or in the oven, for a second or two. Double carefully, and serve at once. Friars’ Omelette. fi Apples (large), 3 oz. Butter, 3 oz. Sugar, 2 Eggs, 6 oz. Bread Crumbs. Boil apples as for sauce; stir in butter and .sugar; when cold, add eggs (well beaten). 'Butter dish (cold); strew bread crumbs an inch thick at bottom of dish, and as many as will adhere to the sides. Pour in apples, strew crumljs over, and bake in a moderate oveil. Wlien baked, turn out on dish, and strew sugar over. , ; Fruit Salad. Place fruit in layers, sprinkling eacli layer well with sugar ; sliced lianana improves salad, and all kinds of fruit may be useik Allow to remain in bowl for some time and stir just before using. Fun Puddingy. 1 lb. Ratafias. 3 Whites of Eggs, 2 oz. Castor Sugar, 3 oz. Flour, IJ pint Milk, 3 oz. Grated Cocoa-nut. Whip whites to a very stiff froth, then add sugar and a little of the milk. Now sprinkle in the Hour, very slowly, stirring all the time, put into a clean pan over fire, and stir well till it thickens (don’t let it burn). Put ratafias into a glass dish and pour mixture over; when nearly cold, sprinkle cocoa-nut on top, and serve cold. German Rice Pudding^. 2 oz. Rice, breakfastcupful Bread Crumbs, 2 oz. Sugar, 1 oz. Butter, 3 Eggs, 1 quart of Milk, Essence of Leinon, Raisins. Boil the rice in the milk. Add the bread crumbs. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs one at a time, and beat well. Flavour with the lemon. Butter a mould, and ornament it with raisins. Pour in mixture, and steam 2 hours. Serve with sweet sauce. German Trifle. Bake a small rice pudding to fit the size of the glass dish. It must be quite soft and creamy. Place a layer of jam in the bottom of the dish, and turn the rice pudding on to the jam. Then pour over it some good custard (let this be perfectly cold), and then idIucc a thick whip of cream over it, and serve. Ground-Rice Mould. 1 lb. Gi-ound Rice, 2 oz. Castor Sugar, White of 1 Egg, Essence of Ratafia, li pint Water. Put rice and water in a double saucepan with the .sugar and allow it to boil, stirring every few minutes. WHien it boils, add flavouring, also beaten white of egg, which mix in gently. Pour into well-greased mould and put in cool place. Will set very quickl}u Served with stewed fruit. Ground Rice a.nd Fruit Shape. i lb. e.ach of red and black Currants and Raspberries, 1 pint Water, 4 oz. loaf Sugar. . , Stew gently till soft, then strain through hair-sieve and measure