170 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Seed Cake. Put 1 lb. of flour into a bowl. Beat G oz. of butter to a cream. Add to the butter 3 eiggs, well beaten, and ^ lb. of sifted eoigar. Mix a teaepoonful of baking powder with the flour, and also 1 oz. of seeds. Then put in butter, eggs, and sugar, and beat for 5 minutes, and bake. Plain Seed Cake (2). 2 lbs. Dry Flour, 4 teaspooufuls Borwioif’s Baking Powder, ^ teaspoonful Salt, I lb. Moist Sugar, 6 oz. Beef or Mutton Dripping, 1 oz. Carraway Seeds, i lb. Candied Peel, about 1 pint Water, or Milk and Water. Put flour, baking pow^der, and salt in bowd and mix well. Flake the dripping and nib in well with the hand. Make a hole in middle of the flour and pour in f of the water or milk and water, or it may be water with an egg beaten in it. Stir well with a knife, and, if required, add the remaining ^ pint water. Mixture should not be stiff, but rather w'et. Beat it up well with the knife and pour into greased tin. Place for first hour in a rather slow oven, then let it bake quickly for f or 1 hour longer. Be careful it does not burn. Only half fill the tin, as the cake rises much. Seed Loaf. Get the loaf of dough from baker. Put it before fire with towel over for, say, ^ hour, till it has half risen, then put on board and spread over it 1 lb. butter. Sprinkle over 1 lb. soft sugar and ^ lb. caiTaway seeds. Work into dough w'ell, adding nearly lb. flour. Place in buttered tin. Let it stand before fire till it rises to the top of tin (1 hour). Bake about 1^ hours in moderate oven. May add peel and sultanas if liked. Dough may be made at home by thoroughly mixing each lb. of flour with a heaped teaspoonful of Yeatman’s yeast powder and a little salt, pouring on gradually | pint cold water or milk, and making dough into usual consistence veiy quickly. Shortbread (1). 14 oz. Flour, put through a sieve, 1 oz. Ground Rice, 1 oz. Rice Flour, i lb. Salt Butter, f lb. Sifted Sugar. (This will make 2 cakes.) Put sugar and butter into a basin. Knead with the hand until it is the consistency of putty. Mix the dry ingredients, and gradually work into the butter and sugar, handful by handful, keeping the lump firm. Cut it in two, take one piece, and knead wdth the knuckles (f right hand, while you keep it in shape with the left. Roll slightly and about ^ inch thick, pinch the edges, and fork the cake over. To prevent the cakes breaking, wmrk them on cooking paper, w'hen they can be very gently placed in the oven (which must be hot) until a nice brown colour. Shortbread (2). Take 1 lb. of butter (| lb. of salt and \ lb. fresh) and cream it with the hand on board. Then add If lb. of flour, 4 oz. of rice flour, ^ lb. of castor sugar, and work all together into a smooth dough. Divide into number of cakes required, pinch round edges wdth fore- finger and thumb, and prick on top. Ornament on top with few pieces of orange peel and carraway seeds. Paper a tin, and put cakes on it, and bake in moderate oven for 20 minutes.