TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 22 out the back-bone, which may be easily done, by beginning at the tail and pulling up to the neck. Roll each fish up neatly, laeginning again at the tail, and keeping the skin to the outside. Pack neatly in a pudding-dish; strew flour, pepper, and salt over them, with a few pieces of butter, and the water and vinegar. Bake in a moderately- • h^ted oven. Another way of cooking them is to steam them in a pan with a close lid. To Fry Red Herrings. Split open, skin, and remove the bone from as many herrings as may be required. Fry in small piece of butter—care must be taken not to burn them. (This is a very tasty way of cooking red herrings.) Fish Kedgeree. Boil a cup of rice as for cuiTy; take cold dressed fish free from bones; mix 2 oz. butter with the rice, add the fish, and season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Now add 2 eggs slightly beaten, stir to- gether quickly over the fire for 3 minutes, and serve very hot. OR, Equal quantities cooked fish and cooked rice, 1 hard-boiled egg, and 1 oz. butter to \ lb. of each. Melt butter, and when hot, but not brown, add rice and fish, and stir with fork till well mixed and quite hot; season with white pepper and salt. Pile roughly on hot dish, cut egg in pieces, take out yolk, place pieces of white round, and mb yolk through sieve on the top. Lobster Cutlets. 1 tin of Lob.ster, IJ- oz. Butter, 1^ oz. Flour, \ pint of Milk, 1 teasiK)oiiful Lemon Juice, 1 tabiespoonful Cream, 1 Egg, Cayenne, i teaspoonful Salt, and Bread Crumbs. Chop the lobster, melt th© butter in a pan, add the flour, mix to a paste, add the millv, and stir over the fire till it boils. Then add the cream and lemon juice, seasoning the lobster. Spread on a floured plate to cool. Divide into 10 or 12 equal portions, form into cutlets, brush over with beaten egg, toss in bread crumbs, and fry a golden brown in a bath of fat. Drain on soft paper. Stick in thin end of each cutlet a stem of parsley. Dish up in a circle on a folded seiwiette, and garnish with parsley. Fish a.nd Macaroni Pie. 2 oz. Cooked Macaroni, 1 Egg, i lb. Cooked Fish, ^ pint Milk, Cayenne, Salt, and a good squeeze Lemon Juice. Mix macaroni with fish, add 1 oz. butter, etc. Pour over hot milk and beaten egg. Cover pie with layer of bread crumbs and tiny bits of butter and bake. » Mackerel. * Mackerel is not good unless veiy fresh; no fish loses its quality'* so quickly as mackerel does, and it is by no means either nice or whole- some if stale. Wash the fish well, and wipe it quite dry; then split it down the back, dust it over with i^epper and salt, and rub a little butter or dripping over it. The butter must be warmed a little. Put it on a brander or gridiron, and cook for about ten minutes, doing the ' split side first.