TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. \±2 PASTRY. Pastry is always better if fiit aivay in a wet cloth, and Let he for a. few hours. Excellent pastry is made by using equal quantifies of butter and lard. Pastry made with Baking Pow- der requires a quick oven, and to be put in it as soon as made. Test oven with a little flour—if too hot zvilL blacken; if pale brown, will do. Place pastry in the very hottest part of oven, for seven minutes to rise, then move to rather cooler part until cooked. Brush pastry when making jam tarts lightly under the jam zvith beaten white of egg, it will then not be sodden and heavy. When beating up the whites of eggs add a tiny pinch of salt, this will make them froth much quicker, as well as make the froth stiffer. The longer you beat whites the smaller the bells are. Keep zvhites in one part of the plate, and keep knife moving through all, on centre of plate. Lemon juice corrects richness of%Pastry. Glaze a tart zvith a teaspoonful sugar in 2 teaspoonfids milk. Boiled Paste for Pies. 1 lb. Flour, a little Salt, 3 oz. boiling Sxiet, 2 oz. boiling Lard. Mix with l)oiling water. Dripping: Crust. \ lb. .Flonr, lb. Dripping, pinch Salt, 1 teasijoonful Baking Powder (to counteract any flavouring of dripping). ^ Beef dripping is best. Shred dripping if liard. Make witli cold water, rather moist, as for flaky pastry. Farola Pastry. 3 oz. Flour, 3 oz. Marshall’s Farola, small 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, and 3 oz.' Bul:ter. Mix flour, farola, and baking powder. Bub in tlie butter. Add just enough cold water to make paste, and don't handle more than is necessary. Roll out once, | inch thick. Fjaky Paste (1). ^ lb. Flour, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, i lb. Butter, and whites of one or two Eggs. Switch whites to froth, and mix flour with whites and about 1 gill cold wniter to a nice paste. Roll out and place ly of butter cut in small i^ieces over this ; sprinkle a little Hour over. Fold in 3 ; roll out. Place second of butter in similar manner, and so a third time. Flaky Paste (2). i lb. Flour, 7 oz. Butter, White of Egg, a little Leinon Juice, and cold Water. Whip white of egg to stiff froth with a pinch of salt. Add the flour with lemon juice, and a few drops cold water. Roll out to about a foot. Take the seventh part of butter and divide into small pieces, and so on till all the butter is used. German Pastry. 4 teacupfuls Flour, 6 or 4 oz. Butter, 4 oz. fine Sugar, a little Salt, 2 tea- spoonfuls Baking Powder, 2 Eggs, 3 or 4 tablespooiifuls of Milk. Rub butter well with the fingers in flour • add sugar, salt, powder ; then add j'our eggs, well switched, with the milk; mix well, turn out