TRIED EAVOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. 221 Method of making' Starch. Put the starch, tiu’pentine, and a little of the water into a clean basin, and mix to a smooth paste. Add the remainder of the water, then the borax, carefully keeping back any sediment that may be at the bottom of the cup. Mix, and the starch is ready to use. As collars and cuffs are usually made vei'y stiff, it is necessaiy to use cold water starch as a stiffening agent. The foregoing is a reliable recipe, and if the proportions are carefully measured, espec- ially those of starch and water, there will not be the slightest difficulty in making the linen look very nice indeed. Another Cold Water Starch. 6 tablespoonfuls Cold Water Starch. Mix smooth in a little water; smooth it out with hand (better than spoon). Add water gradually till quite thin and milky. Put in small bowl 1 teaspoonful turpentine, about 1^ inch lump borax, a lump of ammonia about the size of two beans, and a little starch glaze. Pour teacupful thorouglily boiling water over tliis, and thor- oughly melt while hot. Add to cold water starch. Ammonia keeps iron from sticking. Starch keeps any length of time if well covered ■^up. Cover bowl over with double pjper, and put plate on top. Starch made with boiling water will keep a fortnight without cover on top, if a dessertspoonful of salt is added to starch before mixing. Method of Starching. Dip the collars and cuffs, two or three at a time, into the starch, and rub them well between the hands, so that the grains of starch may enter into the inner folds of linen; wring out, and straighteii them on a clean cloth, and roll up tightly and put on one side for a short time, until the ironing table is prepared. For this is required a piece of clean woollen material to cover the table (an old blanket is very useful for this purpose), a length of clean calico, or an old sheet to cover the blanket an iron stand and ironholder, which should be oblong in shape, with the corners rounded off; and covered with calico ; a duster to rub the irons on ; a small basin with clean water; and a piece of clean rag. Method of Ironing. Place the collars one at a time on the table and rub the right side and the wrong with a damp rag to take off any surface starch. Stretch the stitching at- the edges of the collar, and regulate the ful- ness by passing the hand over the linen, then iron lightly on both sides (wrong side first), then heavily on right side until smooth. Iron till dry, lifting the iron now and again to let steam escape. 'When di'T) it should balance across the finger. On no account pull the collar in front of the iron, as that will draw it out of shape. If the collar is a turn-over one, it ought to be bent into shape while warm, as the linen is less likely to crack than when cold. To iron an Eton collar, iron band first, till quite dry, then collar.