124 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Puff Pastry (2). 1 lb. of Flour, 1 lb. of Butter or Lard. _ Mix a little salt with the flour if lard is used, and make it into a stiff paste with cold water. Koll the paste out to the size of a meat plate, and place the fat on it. After having worked it with the hand into a ball, using a little flour, put it away in a cool place for 1 hour; then roll it out four times; repeat this rolling out twice, letting the paste lie 1 hour between each turn. Then use. Puff Pastry (3). r lb. butter and 1 lb. flour mixed with butter-milk; roll, and fold three times. Rou^h Puff Pastry. I lb. Flour, 6 oz Butter, a few drops Lemon .Juice, some very cold Water. Sifted flour is lighter, so place through sieve; break butter into pieces about size of walnut with floured Angers, not to touch butter. Pour in water very slowly, mixing with other hand and quickly, till proper consistency. Dredge flour on board and rub well in. Roll out into long strip. Fold over in 3, roll lengthwise, repeating 4 times. Short Pastry for Tarts (1). i lb. Flour, i lb. Butter, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, 1 yolk of Egg. Rub the flour and butter together until smooth, add the sugar, and then the egg; mix with a little cold water into a stiff paste. Roll it out and use. Short Pastry (2). Mix I lb. cornflour with | lb. flour, a small teaspoonful baking powder, and a tablespoonful castor suga^’; rub in 3 oz. butter or lard ; beat up yolk of 1 egg with ^ pint of milk, and stir it in. Knead up into light dough. Roll it out once. Short Crust (3). 3 teaeupfuls of Flour, \ lb. Butter or Dripping, 1 tablespoonful Sugar, 1 teacupful Cold Water, i teaspoonful Baking Powder. Rub the dripping .among the flour, add the sugar and baking powder ; make into a stiff paste Avith the water. Roll the paste out rather thinly. OR, lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. lard, 1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 squeeze lemon juice, and a little cold water. Suet Crust. i lb. Flour, i lb. Suet, good pinch Salt, J teaspoon Baking Powder, a little Water. Mince suet fine and sift through coarse sieve, and proceed as for flaky pastry. Patterdale Puddingy. 3 eggs, same weight of butter, sugar, and flour. Mix i teaspoon- ful of baking powder with the flour. Beat all together ; put into cups about half full, well buttered j bake i hour. Paxton Pudding:. 6 oz. Flour, 6 oz. Sugar, 6 oz. Butter, 6 oz. Marmalade (2 tablespoonfuls), ^ Nutmeg grated, 6 oz. Egga (2 or 3), teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. Beat butter and sugar to cream, add flour gradually, to which carbonate of soda and nutmeg have been added, add marmalade, and