202 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Rowan Jelly. Gather the berries Avlien they are almost ripe. Wash them, and put in a preserving pan, with sufficient water to cover them. Boil till soft, and strain the liquid through a bag. Allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar to every pint of juice, and boil the latter with the sugar for \ hour, skim- ming carefully. Apple juice added to the rowans is a decided im- provement. To every pound of rowan juice allow a pound of apple juice, adding sugar to the latter—a lb. to a pint. Rhubarb. Rhubarb takes all flavours but gives none, so most economical to use for tarts or jam with exfensive fruits. Mince rhubarb veiy small and wash well. Boil with black cur- rants till juice is extracted from both. Then strain through two sieves •f different fineness. Boil it with weight in sugar, and you have black currant jelly. Flavour simple juice of rhubarb with lemon and almond flavour- ing, and you have apple jelly; with lemon peel and stick cinnamon, and you have quince jelly; cherries, raspberries, and so on. For desserti, boil rhubarb juice with equal quantity sugar and some red currants. Strain, and when boiling drop in singly some ripe strawberries. To Render Stewed Rhubarb more Dig^estible. Wlien cooked, add a pinch of carbonate of soda. Stir gently, then skim off froth that rises, and serve. Rhubarb Jam with Fig;s. 6 lb. Rhubarb, 5 lb. Sugar, 1 lb. Figs, i lb. Candied Peel. Cut figs and peel fine, put over rhubarb with sugar all night, Boil for 1^ hours. Will keep good for years. Preserved Rhubarb. Choose firm red sticks; wash them and dry well with a cloth. Cut up in 6 inch lengths and lay them on a ti'ay to di-y for 2 days. Weigh 4 lb. of rhubarb and 4 lb. crystallised sugar, lb. lemon peel (cut small), \ lb. preseiwed ginger cut in small pieces, teacupful of water. Put all into a jelly pan (except the rhubarb) and stir it over the fire till it has boiled 6 minutes, then place in the dry rhubarb, and let it boil gently ^ hour, stirring it as little as possible. Place it in pots and tie down while hot, OR, Take equal quantities of sugar and rhubarb. Put rhubarb in basin, with sugar, and lay aside for 3 days. Then add ginger, boil and skim. Simmer 40 minutes. Another way. 2 lb. Rhubarb, 2 lb. Sugar, Riud of 1 Lemou, 1 oz. Whole Ginger, broken up,and crushed. Pare and out rhubarb into small pieces, add sugar, lemon rind (cut very thin), and ginger. Put all into dish, and let it stand till next day. Strain, and boil juice f hour. Add rhubarb, &o., and boil for ^ houi- longer.