101 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Apple and Custard Pancakes. Apples, 4 Eggs, i pint Cream, Sugar, Cinnamon. Beat eggs well, adding the cream and cinnamon (or almond) to flavour. Cut apples in thin slices, and fry in butter, turning them over when slightly browned. Pour over them the custard of eggs and cream, and fry a light brown. Turn over carefully, and serve with sugar sifted over. Apple Dumpling;. ■•Vpples, Sugar, Lemon. For pastry—J lb. flour, a pinch of salt, teaspoonful baking powder, 5 oz. suet very finely chopped, made to a nice consistency with cold water, and rolled out to ^ inch thickness. Line a buttered basin with the pastry. Put in apples and sugar, cover it with pastry, double the thickness of the sides, and pinch round. Dip a cloth in boiling water, dredge it with flour, and tie over it. Boil 2 hours. Apple Dumpling; (Baked). 1 lb. Apples, 3 oz. Dripping, } lb. Flour, 1 tablespoonful Sugar, a little cold Water, J teaspoouful Baking Powder. Peel the apples round and take the hearts out. Make the other ingredients up into a thin paste and cover the apples very neatly with it, filling up the hearts with sugar and nutmeg. Put them in the oven for about ^ hour. The3^ may bo served with custard sauce, or they may be ornamented with the white of an egg. Apple Dumpling;s (Boiled). Apples, Sugar, Cloves for Dough; i lb. Flour, i teaspoonful Salt, 1 oz. Sugar, 1 lb. Suet, Water. Must have good falling apples. Pare and core apples, filling centre with sugar and a clove. Having mixed ingredients into a not too stiff dough, take a piece and place apple in the centre, draw dough over it, dip balls in flour, and throw into boiling water (slightly salted). Keep balls moving about with fork to prevent them sticking together. Boil J hour. Apples with Dunfillan Paste. 4 tablespoonfuls Flour, 3 oz. Butter, 1 Egg, 1 eggspoonful Baking Powder, 2 tablespoonfuls Sugar, \ pint Milk, and flavouring to taste, lb. Apples. Have ready some cold stewed apples, which may be prepared the day before to save time. Kub butter into flour. Add baking powder. Beat, up egg w'ith sugar. Add milk, and stir all into the flour. Mix well. Pour on the top of the apples and bake in moderate oven for I hour. Sift sugar over. Any other kind of stewed fruit is nice with this paste. Dried Apples Pie. Wash 1 pint dried apples, and soak in 2 quarts warm water all night. In morning stew 1 hour. Then add 1 pint sugar, a teaspoon- ful lemon or orange peel, or sliced lemon and J teaspoonful cinnamon. Stew ^ hour longer, then use for filling pies. Duchesse Apples. Pare and cook carefully in a rich syrup with a little lemon juice to keep them white. Drain and roll in melted red currant jelly. Gook the trimmings to a thick sauce with the syrup. Put through sieve and mound up on a plate with the balls on top. Sprinkle grated cocoanut over.