6 TRIED FAVOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. milk or cream. ^ For seals—American cloth out to size, covered with a mixture of x-esin, bees’ wax, and mutton fat, hot. Economical Soup. Most excellent for a brown soup made of vegetables only, it might be used for soup kitchens but is I’eally tasty and rich enough for any dinner table. Take two good-sized onions, peel tliem, and cut them into small pieces; put into your stewpan about 2 oz. butter or very good dripping; when melted put onions in, cover the pan, and let them cock for an hour. The steam will prevent their frying. Then pour in by degi-ees the liquor in which -a cauliflower has been boiled ; put in any pieces of stale bread you may have, add a little pepper and some bacon rinds, but no salt, as enough has already been used in cooking the cauliflower. Simmer for at least an hour; tjien pass through a hair sieve, crushing bi'ead and onions with a wooden spoon. If it is too- thin, boil some time longer to i-educe it; then pour it into the soup tureen, adding a veiy little milk. This should be a delicious soup, and no one could possibly guess what it was made of. Game Soup. 1 lb. G.ame Bones, 1 Onion, 1 oz. Cornflour, 1 quart Water, 1 teaspoonful Peppercorns, ] teaspoouful Salt, 1 dessertspoonful Yorkshire Relish, 1 teaspoonful of Browning. Bi-eak the bones up with a chopper, place them in a saucepan, pour over the w’ater, and bring it to boiling point. Skim w^ell, peel, scald, and add the onion; also' salt and peppei'. Cover the sauce- pan, ch’aw it on one side of the fii-e, and simmer gently for 1 houi'. Strain the liquid, and return toi saucepau, and again allow it to boil. Place in a basin coniflour, Yorkshire I’elish, and browning; mix well, pour all in,to saucepan; boil gently 2 minutes, and soup is ready. Hare Soup (1). Take a hai*e, skin and cut it up; be careful not to bi’eak the inside; put in your hand and take out the lungs; hold the hare over a basin to catch the blood; cut it up in pieces; take all the bones out, and lay th© fleshy parts aside. Put all the bones into a pot, cover w'oll with watei’, add turnip, carrot, stalk of celeiy, a few onions, and boil, if a young hare, for 1^ hours. Pour the blood thi’ough a hair sieve, add some w'atei’, and put it into a stewpan; then stir it one way till it boils. Take out bones, bimis© vegetables well through a sieve, and add the blood which has been ali’eady boiled. Cut the flesh into small pieces, and put in with the i-est into the pot, and boil all together, stirring well, for li houi’s. Mix up seasoning—| lb. of flour of rice, 1 tablespoonful flour, 2 tablespoonfuls ketchup, pepper and salt, and a little bi’owning; mix with watei”, add to soup in pot, and again stir till it comes to the boil. (Many add a shin bone to stock, and a slice of bi’ead and butter added is an improvement.) Hare Soup (2). Skin hare, and carefully preserve the blood. Wipe with a damp cloth, and out off all fleshy parts, which put away till next day. Cut up remainder of hare, and put it in pot wuth cold w^ater, and when boiling add all sorts of vegetables, and tablespoonful peppercorns. Boil all day, and strain. Next day, take 4 oz. butter, and Avhen hot, brown the pieces of hare slightly in this (cut up in little bits). Don’t