J34 TRIED FkVOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. minutes. It will become the right consistency and stick as well as-, the strongest glue. > o Keep away Moths, &c. Take 1 oz. of each of the following: —Cloves, nutmeg, mace, car- raway-seeds, cinnamon, and Tonquin beans, and 6 oz. orris-root; grind to a powder, mix thoroughly, and put in muslin bags, which store amongst your clothes. Besides imparting a delicious fragrance, these- help to keep away moths. or. Place lumps of najDthaline, or whole cloves, among your blankets, or furs, &c. How to make Half a Ton of Coals go as far as 15 Hundredweight. Place a quantity of challc in the grates. Once heated, this is prac- tically inexhaustible from combustion, and gives out gi’eat heat. Place the chalk at the back of each of your fires in nearly equal proportions with the coal. Full satisfaction will be felt both as to the cheerfulness and as to the warmth of the fire, and the saving throughout the winter will be at the rate of 26 per cent. Another way to economise coal.—Take old newspapers, about eight at a time, and roll them up as tightly ^as possible, binding the ends of the roll with wire to prevent it coming undone, and place on the fire. These rolls bum like coal, and give out a good heat. The wire can be used over and over again. To save coals, leave slide at top of range a little open ; will have more heat and great saving of coals. A Sewing Machine Secret, &c. Take out the screw that holds the foot-plate, remove it, and you will be sui’prised at the amount of fiuff accumulated there. Clean the little grooves and under the whole of the plate with a penknife (the needle must be taken out before the work is begun). You will often find this is the only cause for the machine running hard and not carry- ing the work. When working Avith machine on crape or any other flimsy ma- terial, by placing a piece of paper underneath, it will be found to prevent it stretching. Yellow stains left by machine oil on white material may be re- moved by rubbing the spot with a cloth wet with ammonia before washing with soap. Flannel should not be used in needle-books for sticking needles into, as flannel is often prepared with sulphur, which will rust the needles. A piece of fine linen or chamois leather is better. In making sleeves of children’s dresses, make quite full and long enough to turn a hem and gather at wrist. When too short, rip out the hem and gather into a cuff. Test for Bad Water. Buy 1 oz. of saturated solution of permanganate of potash. If, when a drop of this is added to a tumbler of water, its colour changes to brown, it is unfit to drink. If it remains clear or slightly rose- coloured after an hour it is, broadly speaking, safe. This test should