154 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Rock Biscuits.' 1 lb. Flour, i lb. Butter, i teaspoouful Giuger or Nutmeg, 6 oz. Sugar, Lemou Peel, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Mix with 1 egg and a little milk. Bake in a quick oven. Savoury Biscuits. 4 oz. Flour, 2 oz. Butter, ^ teaspoon Anchovy Sauce, 1 yolk of Egg, Cayenne Pepper. Roll pastry out ^ incli thick. Cut into strips, and bake till pale brown. Shrewsbury Biscuits. 8 oz. Flour, 4 oz. Sugar, 4 oz. Butter, 1 Egg, and a little Essence. Cream the butter and sugar; add egg, flour, and essence, and make into a dough. Roll out thinly, and cut into shapes. Bake about 10 minutes. Vanilla Biscuits. 4 oz. Flour, 4 oz. Pine Kernels, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, 2 oz. Butter, a pinch Baking Powder, White of 1 Egg, 2 drops Essence of Vanilla. Put' the pine kernelf twice through the nut mill (or bread grater), liub the butter into the flour, add sugar and kernels and then baking powder. Then add whipped white and vanilla and mix thoroughly. Roll out a moderately thin paste, cut into rounds, and bake in a quick oven 10 to 15 minutes. Yorkshire Perkins. i lb. Flour, 4 oz. Oatmeal, 6 oz. brown Sugar, 1 oz. mixed Spice, 4 oz. Butter, 4 oz. Treacle. Mix all with butter-milk into stiff dough; divide all into 11 oz. nuts. Place on greased tin, and bake in cool oven. AMERICAN RECIPES. In these rectfes a cupful means a breakfast cupful. Breakfast Muffins. Sift 2 heaped cupfuls flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, and 1 do. salt; add cupful sugar, and rub in 1 tablespoonful butter; beat 1 egg thoroughly, stir it into 1 cupful of milk, mix well into the flour. Pour into well-greased muffin-pans; bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. Corn Bread. Mix 1 ciqjful yellow Indian meal, do. flour, 2 heaped teasi^oon- fuls baking powder, do. salt, and 1 do. sugar. Rub in 1 level table- spoonful of butter; add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, Ij cupfuls milk; beat in the beaten whites of the eggs, and bake in a hot oven about \ hour. Corn Meal Pones. Scald 1 pint of milk, and stir in 1 cupful of sifted meal, mixed with 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 scant teaspoonful of salt, and 1-^ tea- spoonfuls of baking powder. Add 3 well-beaten eggs; beat all well, and pour into buttered tins. Bake | hour in a hot oven. Crullers. Rub 1 cupful of sugar and 1 tablespuonful of butter to a cream, stir in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs and 1 cupful of milk, then the beaten