TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 217 oarafully. They oau also be kept in salt, tightly packed but not touching. If buttered tho day they are laid (to close the pores of the egg) they may be merely placed in egg-boxes and tied up, or put into racks for the purpose. Tlrey must be Ifljpt on end. To Use up Dry Bread. Brown in oven every scrap that is left, Ijiit don’t scorch. Roll while hot and crisp, and sift. Use tlie fine crumbs for croquettes, &c., the coarser for puddings, &c. Keep dry in glass jars or tin cans. To Sweeten Rancid Butter. Melt the butter and skim it. Then put into it a piece of toast free from burn. In a‘ few minutes it will lose its offensive^aste and smell, which the toast has absorbed. To Keep Food Hot. Instead of putting food into the oven to keep hot for late comers, tiy covering it closely with a tin or plate, and setting it over a sauce- pan of hot water. Tliis plan will keep the food hot, and at the same time prevent it from, drying. Vanilla Pods have a much better flavour than the essence. Stir the pod among the substance to be flavoured till it has enough, then wash pod in 2 or 3 waters, and dry for future use. Will last a long time. To Keep a Larder Sweet. Place a pan of charcoal in it, for it helps greatly to keep eveiy- thing sweet and wholesome. To Test Tinned Vegetables. Open the tin and plunge into its contents a bright steel knife. Let it remain a few moments, when, if copper be present, even in the most minute pix>portion, it will be visibly deposited on the blade. This is an unfailing test. Management of Gas Stove. With proper proportion of gas and air it burns blue. It then gives more heat, and is cheaper than when it lights back and burns white, and also keeps pans cleiiner. Wait till it bums red for toast. Close and open oven door gently, especially when tap is Ioav. Furniture Polish (1). 6 oz. Bees' Wax, 2 oz. White Wax, 3 oz. Castile Soap, 2 pints Turpentine, 2 pints Boiling Water. Take a large jar, set it on the range, and shred the wax and soap into it. Stir till melted, and add the boiling water and turpentine. Remove from the fire, and stir occasionally until it is quite cold, when it should be like very thick cream. It can be kept in the jar, but if you have old pickle bottles it is better to pour it into' them when still warm, and occasionally stir until quite cold. It will keep for years, and is better old than new. Before polisliing furniture, wash it with clean, cold water, and polish with new chamois leather. Oak or varnish paint, same way. A very useful recipe for brightening up furniture is made of the following:—1 gill raw linseed oil, \ gill turpentine. Mix well together. A duster, moistened with this, and a dry soft cloth to finish, will make furniture shine like new.