163 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Broda Cake (Kich Simnel Cake). li lb. Butter beaten to a cream, li lb. Icing Sugar mi.xecl with it, li lb. Ground Almonds, 1 lb. Semolina mi.xed with i lb. Flour, yolks of 7 Lggs aud whites of 5, 1 lb. Pi'eserved Ginger, free from syrup, li teaspconfuls Almond I^sence, and 1 flat teaspoouful Baking Powder. Add sugar and almonds to butter, add yolks one at a time, without beating, and a little semolina alternately ; add ginger, baking powder, and essence, then whites. When baked, cut through carefully ; spread almond paste between, and sandwich the two layers of cake \ ice the top. Brown Cake (1). IJ lb. Flour, 1 lb. Sultanas, i lb. Currants, i lb. Butter, 3 lb. Sugar, 3 Eggs, 2 teaspoonfiiis each of Cinnamon and Ground Ginger and Bi-carbonate of Soda, a little Jamaica Pepper, Mi.xed Spice and Carraway Seeds. Mix dry ingredients together. Melt butter and mix well with butter-milk. Bake in moderate oven. Brown Cake (2). 2 lb. Flour, 1 lb. Castor Sugar, 3 lb. Butter, 6 Eggs, 1 lb. Sultanas, i lb. mixed Peel, 2 Nutmegs, 1 oz. Ground Ginger, 1 oz. Cinnamon, IJ tea- spoonfuls Soda, and a little'Milk. Cherry Cake (1). 5 lb. Flour, i lb. Butter, J lb. Sugar, i lb. Cherries, 1 lb. Candietl I’eel, { lb. Sultauas, 3 Eggs, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, 2 tablcspoonfuls VVater. ' Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs dropped in whole ; add the fruit, baking powder, and Hour, and, last, the water. Line a cake tin with paper, pour all in, and bake in a hot oven with plate on top for IJ hours, allowing cake to remain in for another ^ hour. Cherry Ca.ke (2), •1 oz. Butter, 4 oz. Castor Sugar, 3 Eggs, grated rind of J Lemon, 4 oz. Candied Cherries, 8 Oz. Flour, J teaspoouful Baking Powder. Beat butter and stigar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten, also the flour and lemon rind ; beat 10 minutes, add cherries and baking powder, pour into a mould lined with buttered paper, and bake in a slow oven for 2 hours. Note.—The mixture should be sufficiently still to prevent ^he cherries sinking to the bottom in baking. If eggs not enough, add a little milk. Chocolate Cake. i lb. Flour, 1 lb. Butter, J lb. Sultana Raisins, 6 oz. Cliocolate, 6 oz. Sugar, J teaspoonful Milk, 3 Eggs, ^ tea.spoouful Vanilla, 1 do. Cinnamon, 1 good do. Baking Powder. Grate chocolate and dissolve in milk over fire till melted : do not boil hard. Beat butter and sugar together, then add chocolate and milk. Beat eggs well, and then add flour, half of which might be cornflour, then seasonings and fruit. Put into well buttered and floured cake pan, and bake for about an hour. Iced Christmas Cake. 11 oz. Butter, 11 oz Flour, 1 lb. Currants, 1 lb, Valencia Raisins, 3 lb. Sweet Almonds, i lb. Candied Peel, 1 doz Eggs, 1 lb Ground Almonds, 1 lb. 10 oz. Castor Sugar, 1 lb. Icing Sugar, 1 Lemon, a little Orange Flower Water, a few drops Essence Almonds and Cochineal, i oz. Mixed Spice, i teacupful Milk. Above ingredients are for the whole cake and icing.s.