178 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. fat will remain on top of each jar; this must not be taken off. When the soup is required, put aside the fat, and put some of the jelly into a pan, and allow it just to come to tlie boil. Add a pincli of salt and pepper, and it is ready. One jar makes 3 breakfastcupfuls of soup. Restorative Meat Jelly. 2 or 3 lb. Knuckle of Veal, do. fresh killed Gravy Beef, and 1 Calf’s Foot. Cut meat from bones, chop bones. Lay them in bottom of pan, put meat on top, add as much cold water as will rise 2 or 3 inches above meat. Let the whole simmer gently 4 hours, taking care fo remove every particle of scum as it rises in first boiling. Sole for Invalid (baked). Have a well-buttered tin. Lay in fillets of sole, sprinkle over with seasoning of salt, white pepper, and a little lemon juice, which helps to whiten fish, and aids digestion. Have 1 gill milk and 1 gill water heated, and when quite hot pour over fillets. Place buttered paper over, and cook 16 or 20 minutes, basting constantly. Sweet Bread for Invalid. 1 heart Sweetbread, i pint White Stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of Cream, 1 j'olk of Egg, a squeeze of Lemon Juice, Salt, Pepper. Wash well, and soak it for 2 hours with a little salt; put in pan, and boil 5 minutes. Then throw into cold water to blanch. Trim off all fat and skin, cut into nice pieces, and put it into the stock, and bring to boil; skim carefully, and simmer slowly 1^ hours. When quite tender, add cream and yolk of egg, lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Strain very carefully. Lambs’ sweetbreads are considered daintier— must be fresh, won’t keep a day, Never touch a sweetbread with a knife. Trim with fingers or two silver forks—a knife makes them tough. Tomatoe Cutlets (Diabetic). 1 i lb. Tomatoes, H tablespoonfuls Plasmon, 1 oz. Butter, 1 tablespoonfui Cream, 1 Egg, seasoning to taste. 1 Stew the tomatoes in butter till tender. Rub through sieve. Return pulp to pan and mix in 1 tablespoon Plasmon slowly; add 'cream and seasoning. Cook gently till quite thick, but do not boil. Pour on a plate, and when cold shape into cutlets, brush over with egg, and sprinkle with Plasmon. Fry in boiling fat. Serve with brown gravy. T ripe. To 1 lb. Tripe, allow 1 tablespoonful of Flour, ^ pint of Milk, a pinch of Salt, and one of Pepper. Lay the tripe to soak all night in cold water; next day wash it in warm water with a piece of soda in it the size of a pea, but do not let it soak in this, as the soda will harden the tripe. Place the tripe in plenty of cold water, bring to boiling point; if the water has not a pleasant smell, pour it away, and place the tripe, again in cold water, bring again to boiling point; repeat this until the tripe and water are quite sweet. Then simmer gently for 5 or 6 hours, till the tripe is thoroughly tender. Mix the flour with the milk, add pepper and salt, and ^ pint of the liquor the tripe has been boiled in, bring to boiling point, and boil for 6 minutes.