49 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. ouehlv add vinegar little by little. Stir into chopped ham, and pack iu^small moulds. Pour melted butter over. Roots of tongue, same Hash. Cut the meat into slices. Trim off any hard or burnt pi^es, and put them into a saucepan with the bones, if any; a piece of bacon- rind, carrot, turnip, parsley and herbs, pepper, salt, and cold water. Let these boil for at least 1 hour. Cut an onion m rings and fry_ it brown in a little dripping. Mix 1 dessertspoonful of Aour with ^ pint of the stock, pour it into the pan, boil till thick. Add a little ketchup or vinegar, anchovy sauce, nutmeg, or other flavouring Strain th^ gravy, put it back in pan, and just warm the meat in it, but do not let it come to the boil, or the meat will be tough. Hodge Podge (Cold Meat). 1 lb. underdone cold Mutton, 2 J.ettuces, 1 pint green Peas, 5 or 6 green Onioue, 2 oz. Butter, Pepper and Salt, 1 teacupful Water. Mince mutton and cut lettuces and onions in slices. Piit all in pan except peas, and let simmer very gently J hour, keeping well stirred. Boil peas separatelj'’. Mix with mutton, and servo very hot. Italia’s Pride (American). 1 large cup chopped Meat, 2 OiiioiiB, iniiicGd and fried brown, 1 pint cold , boiled Macaroni, 1 pint fresh or cold stewed Tomatoes, 1 teaspoonful Salt, i teaspoonful White Pepper. Butter a pudding dish, and put first a layer of maca,roni, then tomato, then meat and some.onion and seasoning, till dish is full. Cover with bread crumbs, dot bits of butter over, and bake 4 hour. Fried Kidney. 1 Ox Kidney, Dripping, Egg, Elour, Salt, Pepper, Bread. • Cut the kidney into slices, fry it in hot dripping, turning often. Toast a slice of bread, and put kidney round it. Boil the egg hard, and mince the white. Grate the yolk over top, and garnish with parsley. Season kidney with salt, pepper, and a little flour. Kidneys and Tomatoes. Ta^te 4 large ripe tomatoes, wipe them, and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of fat bacon, out into thin pieces. Put the stewpan at the side of the fire, so that the tomatoes can just simmer until tender—which will be in about 10 minutes. Now out in halves 3 sheep’s kidneys, and remove the skins. Chop a small onion finely, mix with it a teaspoonful . of minced parsley, season with salt and pepper, and stir both into an ounce of oiled butter; add a well-beatefi egg, mix well, and dip in the pieces of kidney; cover them with fine bread crumbs and put them on one side while you proceed with the tomatoes. Thicken a gill of stock with \ ounce of flour, add it to the tomatoes, and simmer again for a few minutes. Now fry the kidneys in boiling lard or dripping, taking care not to brown them too much— they should take only about 3 minutes. Put them on a piece of kit- chen paper to drain off the grease, and then arrange them on a hot dish, and pour the tomatoes, &c., round. Kidney Pudding. 3 Sheep’s Kidneys, 2 teacups Bread Crumbs, 1 teaspoon Suet, finely minced, 1 teacup Milk, 1 Egg, Nutmeg, teaspooit Parsley, Herbs, Pepper and Salt. Skin kidney, add suet, bread crumbs, parsley, a very little thyme.