37 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. GAME and POULTRY. Game or Poultry may be preserved for a long time by tying a tight string round 'the neck to exclude the air, and flitting a fiece of charcoal into the vent. A sprinkling of freshly-ground coffee will keep game sweet for severid days. When stu^ng a foivl which is to be roasted insert stuffing the night before, and the flavouring will penetrate through the '^^^^°^To^'clean a foivl, pick oiit all the pin feathers with blade of small knife, turn back the skin of the neck, loosening it ivith the pnger and thumb, and draw out the windpipe and crop, which can be done without any cut. Turn the fowl on its back and make a good large cut just under the vent; and by working pngers in slowly, keeping them close to body, remove whole of intestines in a mass, being careful not to break gall- bag, which is near upper part of breast-bone and attached f the liver. Dip a cloth in hot water, and zvipe out fowl from both ends and dry it well. If an old fowl, zvith strong smell, dissolve a teaspoonful soda in zvarm zvater; wash in this, then in cold water, and wipe dry. A very old fowl can be made as tender as a chicken if cooked as followsRub the fowl prst over with lemon juice, which whitens the flesh and improves the pavour. Then wrap in buttered paper and steam for 2 or hours according to size. The Pesh of an old fozvl is more nourishing than that of a young one, and quite as delicious if cooked like this. . The fowl may be roasted after being partially steamed. Chicken or Fowl Pie. 2 email Fowls or 1 large oue. White Pepper and Salt to taste, i teaspoonful grated Nutmeg, J teaspoonful pounded Mace, a few Forcemeat Balls- « few slices of Ham, 3 hard boiled Eggs, ^ pint of Water, Puff Crust. Skin and cut the fowl up into joints, and put the neck, leg, ana backbones into a stowpan with a little water, an onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a blade of mace; let these stew for about an hour, and, w'hen done, strain off the liquor ; this is for gravy. Put a layer of fowl at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of ham, then one of forcemeat and hard boiled eggs cut in rings; between the layers put a seasoning of pounded mace, nutmeg, pepper, and saft. Proceed in this manner until the dish is full, and pour in about ^ pint of water; border the edge of tire dish with puff oimst, put on the cover, orna- ment the top, and glaze it by brusking over it the yolk of an egg. Bake from 1^ to 2 hours, and when done pour in at the top the gravy made from the bones. If to be eaten cold, and wished particularly nice, the joints of the fowl should be boned and placed in the dish, with alternate layers of forcemeat or sausage meat. It should be covered- with a piece of paper when half done, to prevent the paste being dried up or scorched.