TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. J05 of the plate with well-washed currants till it is quite level; then sprinkle the currants over with pounded sugar, and put three or four little pieces of butter (about the size of a nut); then cover the whole plate in with a thin layer of pastry, and bake it in the oven. Spread a little white of egg on the topj, and sprinkle castor sugar over. Serve it hot, cutting the slices on the plate on which it has been baked. Delicious Cake for Tea and Dessert. J lb. Flour, i lb. Fine Sugar, i lb. Butter, Whites ol 2 Eggs, Yolk of 1 Egg, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, 1 teaspoonful Cinnamon, Jam. Mix baking powder with flour. Rub in butter till like fine bread crumbs, add sugar and cinnamon ; make into, stiff paste with yolk of egg. Roll out to size of a dinner plate. Place on the buttered plate and bake to a light brown. Wien cool, spread with jam. Beat whites stiff, adding sugar and essence to taste, and put roughly over the jam. Return to a slow oven to harden. The yolk of the egg should take up all the mixture, and it should be kneaded till quite smooth. Feather Cake. Weight: of 3 Eggs in Butter, 4 in Flour, and 2 in Sugar, Essence of Almonds or Lemon. Add yolks first, tlieu whites. Bake in rather quick oven. Fig; Cake. 6 oz. Flour, 2J oz. Butter, 2J oz. Castor Sugar, pinch Salt. . Rub together. Add ^ teaspoonful baking powder, and 6 oz. figs stewed in a very little water and cut up small. Bake in a quick oven hour and spread butter icing over. Genoa Cake. 9 oz. Colman’s Self-Raising Flour, 5 oz. Butter, 5 oz. Castor Sugar, 2 oz. each of Glac6 Cherries, mixed Peel, Ground Almonds, and Currants, 1 oz. Sultanas, 4 Eggs, grated Rind of a Lemon, and a little Milk. Beat together butter and sugar; beat up eggs in separate basin. Mix in eggs and flour alternately with the butter and sugar, half of cherries, and grated lemon rind. Have currants and sultanas picked and clean. Mix well together, adding currants last. Pour into tin (a large square sandwich tin is best), and bake in moderate oven for 1 hour. German Cake. i lb. Flour, i lb. Butter, J lb. Sugar, 1 Egg, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, i teaepoonful Essence of Lemon. Mix dry materials with butter; put in egg (switched) and a little milk if required. Butter a plate, put on half, and spread jam over it; put on other half, and pinch the edges. Bake about | hour in slow oven. Ging-erforead (1). 1 lb. dry Flour, 3 oz. Butter, 3 oz. Sugar, i oz. Ground Ginger, a small tea- spoonful Baking Soda, 1 Egg, 1 teacupful Treacle'. Mix treacle with warm milk ; put into a weU buttered tin, and bake directly for J hour. Wlien done, let it cool a few minutes, and, where there is not a sieve, let it lean, to allow the steam to escape. Notes.—(1) A cake containing treacle does not require a very hot oven, as it is liable to bum. (2) Half white flour and half whole-meal makes gingerbread very wholesome.