168 'TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Lunch Cake. 6 oz. Butter, 6 oz. Sugar, 4 Eggs, 1 lb. Flour, i oz. Baking Soda, \ oz. Cream of Tartar, J lb. Currants, i lb. Peel, i pint Butter-milk. Madeira Cake. 1 lb. Flour, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, oz. Butter, 2i oz. Sugar, 2 Eggs. Ci’eam butter and sugar. Tben add flour, in wliioh powder is mixed, lastly eggs, and a few drops evssence of lemon. Balm 11, hour.s Orange Cake (1). 4 oz. Flour, 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder, juice of 2 Oranges, grated rind of 1 Orange, 6 oz. Sugar, yolks of 4 and wliites of 2 Eggs. Cream sugar and eggs together for 10 minutes, -Jidd the juice of the oira.nges andl grated rind. Stir in flour lightly, then add powder. Pour into a well greased tin, cover with greased paper, and bake for ^ hour in a brisk oven. Do not open door of oven till baked. Orange Cake (2). 2 Eggs, their weight in Butter, Sugar, Flour, 1 small teaspoouful of Baking Powder, the grated rind of Orange. Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar, and beat well; then add the beaten eggs gradually. Grate the rind of the orange, and add it to the dried and sifted flour. Mix the baking powder with it, and then stir lightly into the eggs and .sugar. Pour into a greased sand- wich tin, and baike for 20 tO‘ 30 minutes. Allow to' cool, then ice. Pla.in Cake. 1 lb. Flour, ^ lb. Currants or some Carraway Seeds, i lb. Sugar, ^ lb. Dripping, a good-sized teaspoonful Baking Powder, flavouring of Spice, Salt. Put a little salt and the powder with the flour, then work in the dripping; add the currants and the sugar, and make a fairly soft dough with water or milk. Gimse a tin, put in the cake, and set in oven at once. Bake till skewer comes out dry. Plum Cake (1). 1 lb. Sugar, 1 lb. Butter, 12 Eggs, 1^ lb. Flour, It lb. Currants, -i lb. Orange Peel. Cream the sugar and butter for 20 minutes; add 2 eggs, and beat for some time, and so on until the 12 are added. Have the flour, cur- lants, and peel mixed in a basin (peel cut very small), and mix all Avitli the cream. Bake 3 hours in a slow oven. Plum Cake (2). lb. Flour, 1 lb. Currants, i lb. Sultanas, li lb. Sugar, li lb. Butter, ^ lb. Candied Peel, 6 oz. Almonds, 7 Eggs, lit teaspoonfula Baking PoAvder, J pint Milk. Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar ; beat until it drops from the spoon; add the eggs very gradually; then add the currants and sultanas cleaned, candied peel chopped finely, and almonds pound- ed. Then add the flour and baking powder (mixed) and the mill< alternately. Pour into greased tin lined with paper, , and bake in a rather slotv oven till a skeAver thrust in comes out clean and dry. Rice Cake (1). ^ lb. Btitter, i lb. Sugar, 6 Eggs, 10 oz. Flour, 2 oz. Gi-ound Eice, a few drops Essence of Bitter Almonds. Rice Cake (2). Mix lb. rice flour Avith ^ lb. loaf sugar, and put this to 6 well- 'beaten eggs. Season Avith a little ratafia or orange flower Avater, and a drop or two essence of lemon and some finely grated rind of lemon. •Beat the Avhole 20 minutes, and bake in quick oven.