TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY KOOK. 19? when fine ohalk will be precipitated. Pour off the water, and sediment at bottom will be the finest tooth powder in the world. Add a few drops of eau-de-cologne if liked. In order to prevent decay, the teeth should be carefully brushed at least once a day, preferably at night, but, better still, after each meal. There is no better dentifrice than pure soap, and M'Clinton’s tooth soap being specially prepared from the ash of plants and a pure vegetable oil, does not leave the objectionable soapy taste in the mouth which all soda soaps do.—Dr Kirk. A Good and Cheap Mouth Wash. For preserving tlie teeth, few things are better than a glass of water, in which ^ teaspoonful of bi-carbonate of soda has been dis- solved. Brush the teeth with this solution. Mouth-Wash. Id worth Chlorate of Potash, Id of Borax, Id of Camphor. Put in quart bO'ttlo and pour boiling water over. The potash cools, the borax cleans, and the camphor gives refreshing perfume. Use 1 tablespoonful to 2 tablespoonfuls of water to brush teeth. Another Excellent Mouth-Wash. To a pint of boiling soft water add one ounce of borax, and before it is entirely cold add thirty drops of the spirits of camphor, one drachm of soap-tree bark, and twenty drops of cinnamon essence; bottle and cork tightly for use. This preserves the teeth and gums, removes the tartar, arrests decay and malces teeth veiy white. When used add two or three teaspoonfuls of the liquid tO' as much tepid water. Apply with a soft brush. Chlorate of Potash Gargrle. For relaxed sore throat and inflamed tonsils. Get 2 oz. chlorate of potash from chemist and put in tumbler of cold water. Only a portion will dissolve, but each time, after gargling with the solution, fill up the tumbler with fresh water, until the whole of the potash has been dissolved. Keep tumbler covered with paper. Hair Wash. strong Liquor Ammonia, 1 oz.; Spirit of Eosemary, 3 oz.; Tincture of Cantharides, 1 oz.; Almond Oil, 1 oz.; Lavender Water, 2 oz. Mix and apply to the roots of the hair with a piece of sponge or a fine brush, when the hair is falling off. To Promote the Growth of the Hair. Equal quantities of olive oil and spirit of rosemary ; a few drops of oil of nutmeg. Mix ingredients together, rub the roots of the hair every night with a little of this liniment, and the growth of it will very soon sensibly increase. The following is also recommended for strengthening and promot- ing the growth of the hair:—Mix cantharides with castor oil in the proportion of one. drachm to each ounce of oil, and apply once a day.