TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 167 Chocolate Icing:. Put iu saucepan 2 oz. loaf sugar, witli squeeze of leniO'n Juice, and a. very little water. When dissolved stir in lb. chocolate. Work with back of spoon till mixture is quite smooth and glossy; cool. OR, G oz. icing sugar, 1 dessertspoonful cocoa essence, small tea- spoonful vanilla, and about 1 tablespoonful water. (The exact quan- tity of water depends on kind of sugar.) Stir over stove till warm, not hot. Pour over cake, spread with knife, and sprinkle cocoa-nut ovei;. Ratafia lcin^> Whites of 4 eggs to i lb. Icing Sugar and i lb. ground Almonds. Whip eggs to stiff froth; add teaspoonful essence almonds. May either make cake or icing. If for icing, paper cake, spread, and just brown in moderate oven. Add more white of egg if for macaroons, and sweeten to taste. Royal Icing for Cake. 1 lb. icing sugai', whisk up white of 3 eggs to a stiff froth, then beat eggs and sugar together by degrees, add juice of a small lemon, keepi beating and adding sugar till the mixtiu© does not drop from a spoon. When it is stiff spread a layer on the cake, let it set (about a day), then add another and smooth with muslin, then decorate with fniits or coloured icing. Water Icing. 1 lb. Icing Sugar, 1 dessertspoonful Orange Flower Water, one tablespoonful hot water. Mix with wooden spoon. Spread on cake with knife dipped in hot water. Spidnkle pinlc sugar over. One tablespoonful coffee instead of water makes coffee icing. Jam Sandwich. Weight of egg in flour and sugar. Break egg intO' basin with a tablespoonful of milk. Add flour and sugar. Just before putting in oven add teaspoonful baking powder and any flavouring liked. But- ter a flat tin, pour in mixture, and bake till ready. Mix two cakes sepai-ately. When cold, spread jam bettween. Jelly Cake. 2 Eggs, i cupful Sugar, tablespoonfuls Butter, 3 tablespoonfuls Milk, 1 full cupful Flour. Beat butter and sugar to a ci-eam. Add yolks of eggs, millc, then IJ teaspoonfuls baking powder, and whites last. Jelly Sandwich. Take the yolks of 2 eggs, beat up. Add 1 teacupful of castor sugar, add gradually the whites of the eggs, well beaten, and a teacup- ful of flour, and a teaspoonfid of baking powder, as well as a few drops of essence of lemon. Put in a shallow baking tin thinly, and bake in a hot oven. May be either cut into squares or rolled. Johnny Cake. 2 breakfastcupfuls Flour, 1 teacupful Sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls Baking .Powder, 1 Egg, piece of Butter size of a Walnut, 1 teacupful any frnit liked, such as Sultanas, or Currants, or Peel, or preserved Ginger, or grated Cocoa-nut, and 1 cupful Milk. Put flour, sugar, and baking powder in basin. Mix well, rub in butter, add fnait, then egg (well beaten), and milk. Pour into greased tin, and bake about 1 hour.