220 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. LAUNDRY WORK. Washing: and Starching: of Collars & Cuffs. It has been my frivilege to know many economical and thrifty housekee-pers, and 1 have discovered that most of them^ after varied experience^ prefer, if possible, to have the washing and dressing of their linen done under their own supervision. The clothes, they say, are always a better colour, and do not wear out so quickly when done at home. The only objection in many cases is that the dressing of the starched linen is not so effectually done as that by a professional laundress. In the few following remarks I hope to describe a simple method which, if carefully carried out, will enable any of my readers to get up her linen so as to look almost like new.—MARGARET C. Rankine, Liverpool. The Washing: of Starched Linen. Before touchhig upon the method of starching and ironing, let me give a few important hints ooncerning the washing of starched linen. First of all it ought to be steep^ in cold water to soften thoroughly the old starch, so that it may be easily removed by wash- ing. This is of considerable importance, as much rubbing tends to wear out the fabric. The linen should then be washed well in hot water with hard soap until all starch has been rubbed out, then rinsed before boiling, tO' Leep the water in the boiler clean, boiling being done to improve the colour of clothes. AVheii opportunity affords, the linen, after boiling, should be taken out of the soapy water and put in the open air for a few hours to bleach. Sunshine is the best bleaching agent. It must then be rinsed in a good supply of clean water and slightly blued, and thoroughly dried, when it is ready for starching. Hot Water Starch. 1 tablespoonful Starch to 2 tablespoonfuls Cold Water. Break starch down with this water. It is better to put in too little water than too much, as you can add a little, and you cannot make good starch with too much water in it. See that there are no lumps, and take starch over to the kettle to be sure water is absolute- ly boiling, and pour in the boiling water till starch is blue and clear, stirring well all the time. A piece of soap the size of a marble may be added when making staich, and starch stirred till soap is thoroughly dissolved. Gives a lovely gloss and prevents iron sticking. Recipe for Cold Water Starch. 1 tablespoonful of Starch, 1 breakfastcupful of Md Water, i teaspoonful of Turpentine, 1 small teaspoonful of Borax (dissolved in hot water). If too much turpentine were added it would scorch linen.