74 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. / Savoury or Entree. Take | lb. tomatoes, J lb. macaroni, 2 oz. Cheddar cheese, and a little butter ; season with pepper and salt to taste. Stew the tomatoes well, and boil the macaroni till soft. Stir the ingredients well together and serve. Sprinkle chopped parsley over all Savoury Pie. 1 oz. each of Carrot, Turnip, Celery, Cauliflower, and Mushrooma (or any other Vegetable in season, such ag Vegetable Marrow, Cucumber, Spin- ach, or Beetroot), 2 tablespoonfulg Salad Oil, 1 gill Water, 1 dessertspoon- ful finely chopped Parsley, 1 Shallot, finely chopped; i tablespoonful Tapiooa, steeped in 1 gill cold Water, Pepper and Salt. Cut vegetables in small pieces ; peel and slice mushrooms. Put in pan with salad oil and water. Put on lid, and stew slowly 10 minutes. Put in pie^dish with parsley and shallot, pepper and salt, and pour over the tapiooa, which has now become quite soft, and absorbed all the water. Allov to get cold, and then cover pie with plain or rough puff pastry. Make 3 slits in top of pie, to allow steam to escape. Decorate, and brush over with beaten egg. Bake in good oven 1 hour. Place 2 sprigs of parsley on pie, and serve. Savoury Pie. Pare several potatoes and slice 2 or 3 onions; place these in a buttered pie-dish in layersi, with a little well-steeped tapioca, pepper, salt, and powdered sage upon each, also mushroom powder or fresh mushrooms. Slices of cold omelet may be inserted. Cover with a plain crust, and keep the bottom of the pie supplied with hot water while baking. Savoury Puciding^. 1 breakfastgupful Bread Crumbs, 2 Eggs, 1 middle-sized Onion boiled and shred fine, 1 teaspoonful Parsley shred fine, a little Butter, and sufficient Milk or Cream to make a light mi.vture, a little Pepper and Salt. (Must be seasoned well.) Beat the eggs, then mix all well together. Butter some cups, into which pour the mixture, only half filling them, and bake in the oven for about 20 or 30 minutes. Serve with broavn, sauce. Savoury Shape. Moisten \ lb. brown bread ciaimbs with 1 breakfastcupful boiling milk, I- lb. blanched celery cut down and well washed, 4 eggs well beaten, ^ dozen best French plums stoned and out finely, 2 oz. melted butter, a pinch of salt, and a dust of nutmeg. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, and pour into a buttered mould. Steam in boiling water for 4 hours. Turn out on ashet, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with whit© vegetable sauce. Hunt Stew. i lb. of H.aricot Beans, 1 large Spanish Onion, 4 Potatoes, cut in square pieces, 1 Carrot and 1 Turnip (both cut like the potatoes), 1 small blade of Garlic, a little Sage, and 1 quart of Water. Soak the beans in cold water a few hours, then put them in saucepan with water to cover them, and place on the fire. Add the vegetables, with a teaspoonful of salt and a bit of soda the size of a small pea. Boil gently till tender, and thicken with a batter of cornflour. Season with pepper and a little ketchup.