196 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Ring^wortn Ointment. 2d Linseed Oil, 3d White Wax, Id Eed Precipitate Powder. Mix well for 1 hour .over a good fire. Will cure after a few appli- cations. Scalds. Cover with rags soaked in strong solution of carbonate of soda and water. For any Sore or Gathering'. 1 teaspoonful Calendula, i oz. Glycerine, and 6 tablespoonfuls Water. ‘' Apply lotion on linen rag. To Prevent the Skin from discolouring after a fall. Take a little dry starch or arrowroot, moisten it with a little cold frater and lay on the aflEected part. This must be done immediately, so, as to prevent the actioar of the air on the skin. Stings. If mouth or throat is stung, keep chewing raw onion till doctor comes. It is not necessai'y to swallow onion, but chew it well to ex- tract the oil, and then put it out. For stings of gnats, apply 1 part carbolic acid and 3 parts vinegar. Next day it will be quite away. A Good Spring Medicine for Children. Take ^ oz. Senna leaves, ^ oz. of manna., and pour over it ^ pint of boiling water. Into this put ^ lb. of prunes or tigs, and 2 large table spoonfuls of golden syrup. Stew gently till liquid is nearly absorbed. Pass through a sieve and put into a pot for use. Dose, a teaspoonful when required. . For Nursery Bedrooms. Keep one or two strong sacks about 3^ feet in depth and IJ in diameter, held open at top by thick wooden hoop, and having a very long strong rope attached. In case of tire, children may be let down safely. Rules for a Water Bed. Only fill half full, and use warm water to prevent chilling patient. To Restore Voice. When the voice is lost from the effects of a cold, a simple remedy —Beat up the white of an egg; add to it the juice of a lemon, and sugar to taste. Take a teaspoonful from time to time. Or, gargle the throat with warm olive oil eveiy four hours (a few times will cure). For a cough a baked lemon is an excellent remedy. Put it into a moderate oven and let remain till soft. Mix together an equal quan- tity of honey and the juice of the baked lemon, and take a teaspoonful, which should be lukewa.nn, whenever the cough is troublesome. For Hoarseness.—Lemon juice squeezed to soft sugar till like a syrup, and a few drops glycerine added—relieves at once. Tooth Powder. 1 lb. rough prepared chalk to be put in a large jar. Fill up with cold water; stir well; allow to settle. Pour off the miUt into another vessel, and leave it (the milk) to stand a day and night,