40 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. salt, 3 ta.blespociifuls bread orumbs, and 1 beaten egg. Mix and lay in fowl. Bury two hard-boiled eggs lengthwise in stuffing. Now draw skin of fowl over, and sew tightly together. To Roast Game. Truss, dust Avith flour, and put inside a piece of butter rolled in pepper and salt. Place on a rack in a tin Avith some butter, and baste well with the butter every 7 or 10 minutes all the time the bird is cooking; about J hour for a partridge. For Avoodcock or snipe 15 or 20 minutes is long enough, ^¥hen cooked have ready a piece of toast buttered on one side. Lift the bird from the tin. Pour the fat away, but keep back the sediment in the tin and put it on the hot toast to flavour it. Place the bird on the toast, and it is ready to serve Avith chipped potatoes and brown breadcrumbs, handed separately. Dressed Game. 1 fresh Partridge, a few tablespoonfuls Water or light Stock, Salt. Take the breast and remove skin and any fibres or sinews, and mince veiy fine. Put it in jDan Avith the Avater and salt. Stir and simmer gently for J hour. Hare can be done in same Avay, and will be found very easy of digestion. . Game Shape. Take I’emains of cold grouse or any game; pick off all the pieces of meat; pound and season, and roll into small balls. Boil the bones well down; add to 1| pints of stock a sixpenny packet of gelatine, Worcester sauce, ketchup, salt, 1 white of egg, well beaten, and boil, and strain through muslin. When cool, slip in balls and hard-boiled egg. Pour into a tin mould, and turn out in usual Avay. Game (Potted). Remains of cold Game, pounded Mace, Allspice, Cayenne, Black Pepper, Salt, lump Sugar, Ham or Butter. Free the game fi’om skin and bone, and pound it in a mortar; then add the seasonings. Pound an equal quantity of cold ham, or, if not at hand, the same amount of butter. Mix thoroughly, press into pots, and cover Avith cLarified butter. When required for use, garnish Avith fresh parsley. Seasonable at any time. Roast Goose. l medium-sized Goose. Pi'epare goose, stuff the body of the bird Avell with sage and onion stuffing, then tie the ends of the legs together. Cover with fat and roast slowly, alloAving 12 minutes to each pound. If not broAvning sufficiently Avell, dr^ge over with flour in the last | hour. When done, pour the fat from the tin, add to what is left 1 table- spoonful flour, pint good stock made from the giblets, salt and pepper. Boil up, pour a little round the goose, and sen^e the re- mainder in a tureen. Serve Avith apple sauce. Haricot of Hare. Take the inferior Joints of a Hare, 1 tablespoonful of Butter, Parsley, ; Thyme, 1 Shallot, 1 Txirnip, 1 Carrot, Pepper and Salt to taste. j Fry the pieces of hare in the butter; add to them the other j ingredients, along with 1 pint of water. Bring to boil, and simmer ] for 2^ hours. Serve on a hot dish, with a border of mashed potatoes, j