iRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 4(i fire, but not allowed to get too cool, add a pint of very finely minced meat, whicli may be cold beef, mutton, veal, or poultry, or a mixture of all. If veal or poultry alone, a little lean ham should be adde<l. Put in, too, a seasoning of gi’ated onion, and 1 teas]X)onful of finely minced parsley, or 2 teaspoonfuls of powdei-ed mixe<l herbs. Stir and mix well and turn into an earthenware basin to cool. Meanwhile pre- pare I2 piiiti of bread crumbs, and 2 eggs, well whisked and seasonal with salt and popper. Shape the cooled meat into sm.ill sausage-like forms, dip them in the .seasoned egg, roll tliem in th© bread cn’.mb.s, I'lace a few of them at a time in your fiying basket; plunge into enough boiling fritui'e to cover them; fiy a light golden biwvn, and serve prettily garnished. An Indian Cuirry. li lb. Beef Steak, 2 large Spanish Onions, 2 large tablespooufuls Dripping. 2 large tablespoonfuls Pea Flour, IJ large tablespoonfuls Madras Curry Powder (Veucatechellum^s), Salt to taste. Slice onions very finely, brown them in the dripping in a stewpan •—they will take 20 minutes to stew until a liglit lu'own. While these are steAviug cut up the steak (or raljbit or chicken) into dice, trimniing off all fat, gristle, (tc., from steak, or disjointing the two latter as small as joints will i^ennit. Mix curiy powder and pea flour into a thick paste with a little warm water, stir to browned onions, mix cut-up beef and salt, and stir all well together. Pour boiling water over all, sufficient to cover the meat or poultiy, and sinuner the whole for 2 hours, or until quite tender. To this oun’y may be added I table- spoonful lemon juice or vinegar, and the milk of ^ big cupful of dessi- cated cocoanut, which must be first soaked in boiling water for h hour and then squeezed through a strainer. Serve cuny very hot in a dish by itself, and some boiled rice in a separate dish. Curry and rice should always be eaten with a spoon and fork, and not a knife; there- fore, the meat or poultry must be well cooked. If made with cold meat, stock must be used instead of hot water. Slices of any fish may be made into a cuny, in which case the onions, curry powder, pea flour, and stock must all be boiled first for ^ hour at least, and then the slices of fresh fish should be boiled in it, alloAving sufficient time only for cooking the fish—7 or 8 minutes. Any good meat stock may be used for the above. Cold vegetables—the greater the variety the better—make a delicious dry curry, but then more good dri23ping must be used instead of any stock, and the whole, sliced up after being- boiled, is fried in it, being stirred constantly till it looks brown and done. lb. of dripping at least will be reejuired, and a tablespoonful of vinegar at last, well mixed into the Avhole. Another Real Indian Curry. 4 Loin Clio])s, with fat well removed, hreakfastcup of Milk, piece of Butter size of ail Egg, teaspoonful of good Curry Powder, large Spanish Onion. Put milk in stewpan Avith butter ; slice the onion in rings, broAvn, and add to milk ; mix the curry in small quantity of dold milk and add to milk and onions, and simmer all from 5 to 10 minutes ; then brown the chops in a frying pan, turningi often so as to keep in the juice, and place them in the stoAvpan. .Simmer gently till done. If not curried to taste, add a little, mixed in milk, before serving.