131 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Tapioca Pudding: (3). Well grease a large pudding-dish; put in 1 breakfastcupful well- washed tapioca, then a layer of any kind of preserve and sugar. Fill up to top with milk, without stirring, and bake in moderate oven. Treacle Pudding. I lb. Bread Crumbs, 2 Eggs (well beaten), i lb. Butter or good Driinung, 2 oz. Brown Sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls Golden Syrup (warmed). Rub butter and bread crumbs together ; add sugar, eggs, and syrup. Butter a mould or basin, and put in the mixture; tie up, and steam 5 hours. Serve syrup in sauceboat. Plenty of l)read crumbs prevents treacle coming out. Treacle Sponge. I- lb. flour, ^ lb. suet, ^ teaspoonful ginger and carbonate of soda, 1 egg, f teacupful of milk, and f cupful of sugar, and same of treacle. Mix all well together; grease mould, and steam 2 hours. Treacle Tart. Warm some treacle. Stir in enough l:)read crumbs to make it quite thick, then ^ teaspoon ground ginger. Put a layer of treacle and crumbs at bottom of buttered pie-dish, then a thin layer of suet crust, and so on till ftdl or nearly so. Cover with thin crust, and bake J hour. Just before serving brush over with water, and sprinkle sugar over. Trifle Pudding. Take 4 penny spongecakes or 12 finger biscuits, cut in two, and spread with raspberry or other jam. Dissolve a jelly square, and, when half cold, pour over spongecakes, w'hich have been placed in a glass dish. When cold, put wdiipped cream on the top. Jam Turnovers. J lb. Selt-Eaising Flour, i lb. Butter, 1 dessertspoonful Sugar, and 1 Egg. Rub butter in flour, add sugar, and make into paste, with egg beaten wuth a little milk. Roll out and cut in rounds. Wet edges, put in teaspoonful strawberry or other jam, turn half of paste over and pinch the edges. Fry in boiling fat a light brown. Sprinkle castor sugar over, and pile high on a plate. Uncle Tom’s Pudding. Heat ^ lb. syrup in a basin; mix in ^ lb. flour, 4 oz. minced suet, 2 oz. brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful ground ginger, 1 of cinnamon, 1 of allspice, 1 of carbonate of soda. Beat 2 eggs; mix.them in a cup of butter-milk. Mix all together; put into a buttered mould ; steam for 3 hours. Serve with sauce. Venice Pudding. 4 Tablespoonfuls Flour, 2 do. Sugar, 1 Egg, Jam, i oz. Butter, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Rub butter in flour, then add the sugar, pinch of salt, and baking powder, mixing well all through. Beat up egg well. Pour into it a teacupful of milk, then mix with other ingredients. Stir well until it is a smooth batter; if too stiff add a little more milk. Butter a pudding dish, spoon in a layer of the batter, then a good layer of jam, strawberry or plum, then add rest of batter. Rake in a hot oven, and test it ready with a fork!