S26 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. horn; then thoroughly wash as quiclQy as possible; rinse in cold water with a little salt in it, and dry quickly. If this is done care- fully, the colours will remain quite fresh. Handkerchiefs. Cambric handkerchiefs should be well soaked in tepid water for 2 hours, then squeezed out to a pan of water, to every gallon of which an ounce of shredded soap and a small tablespoonful of paraffin are added. Boil 20 minutes and rinse in clear cold water, and again in blue water. Pass through wringer, but don’t twist. Spread smoothly between the folds of a towel and roll up tightly. Iron in a few hours, while still damp. A little arrowroot, in a muslin bag and placed in the water in which handkerchiefs are boiled (using no para- ffin), will give them a. faint and agreeable perfume when ironed). If borax ia added to the rinsing water, they will be slightly stiff, with- out being hard. To Wash Sashes and Ribbons, &c. Squeeze in warm soapy lather (not . hot) till clean, then rinse in warm water, then in cold, to which 1 tablespoonful salt and same of vinegar has been added. This is to preserve the colour. Squeeze tightly, fold evenly, and roll in a clean cloth. Beat well between the hands, and iron at once with moderately hot iron under muslin. Never soak coloured silks, but wash and iron as expeditiously as possible to prevent colour going. If wanted slightly stiff, put 1 tea- spoonful prepared gum water to each pint rinsing water, or dissolve a little gum arabic the size of a walnut in the quart of rinsing water. Ribbons treated so will look equal to new. White cotton gloves wash beautifully and do not shrink. Put them on the hands, and wash them as if you were washing your hands; use cold water, and rinse well. Put them in a clean, dry towel, and pass them twice through the wringer, and finish drying in the air or by the fire. Wash white woollen gloves in soapy lather, to which a little am^ monia is added. Rinse in warm water. Put in clean cloth, and pass through mangle. Don’t dry near fire, but in a warm place. Rice is an excellent thing to clean white woollen dresses and coats Take a clean cloth, dip it in dry ground rice, and. thoroughly rub it over every soiled part, using a fresh piece of the cloth as often as it becomes at all soiled. End the process with a good shaking, when the garment should look like new. Spirits of wine rubbed on a white leather belt with a clean cloth will remove all stains. To Iron Blouses. First, iron trimmings, then collar and cuffs, then yoke, then body, beginning with button side of front and with top placed at the left hand. Iron from bottom to top, right across blouse. Lastly, iron sleeves. To Restoi*e Yellow Linen. Linen garments which have become yellow may be whitened by being boiled in a lather made of milk and pure white soap, a pound of the latter to a gallon of the former. After the boiling, rinse linen twice, a little blue in last water.