128 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. buttered bowl. Take | lb. jam, imt in spoonful, cover with paste, and repeat till bowl is full. Put paste last. Steam 2 hours. Sagfo and Rhubarb Pudding:. i lb. Ehubarb, 6 oz. Sugar, i lb. Sago, 2 teacups Water. Boil rhubarb in 1 teacup water 10 minutes. Soak sago 10 min- utes in teacup warm wafer. Add it to rhubarb and boil 10 minutes longer. Pour into wetted shape. Semolina Pudding*. 1 lb. Semolina, 11 pint Milk, 1 oz. Butter, 2 Eggs, 2 oz. Sugar, Flavouring. Put IJ pint milk to boil. Sprinkle in semolina and boil, stirring constantly 5 minutes or so. Add sugar and butter. Mix well. Cool. Beat up eggs, stir in, add flavouring, butter plain mould; ornament with cherries or raisins. Steam 1 hour. Ground rice, same way. Seven-Cup Pudding. 1 cupful Flour, 1 do. Bread Crumbs (very fine), 1 do. Sugar, 1 do. minced Suet, 1 do. Jam, 1 do. Milk (sweet or skim), 1 do. Sultana Eaisins, 1 tea- spoonful Salt, 1 do. Baking Powder. Steam for 3 hours. Sir William Pudding. Make light cake with 2 cups flour, 1 do. sugar, piece butter, 1 teaspoonful baking iDowder, milk, and 1 egg. Make custard with 4 yolks and 1 pint milk. Put pears at bottom of buttered pie-dish. Lay in slices of cake and cover with custard.. Snowballs. Boil teacupful rice with 1^ pint milk; flavour with chopped almonds, and sweeten witli sifted sugar. When tender, beat rice smooth. Pour into cups which have been rinsed in cold water. When cold, turn out on glass dish, and garnish with bright-coloured jam. Snowdon Pudding. Mix well together i lb. Suet, ^ lb. Ground Eice, i lb. Sugar, and 2 oz. of Marmalade. Beat 2 eggs, and mix all well together; ^Dut the pudding into a buttered basin and steam for 2 hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Spanish Pudding. 2 oz. Butter, 4 oz. Sugar, 4 Eggs, 1 Apple, Eind of Orange or Lemon, 4 oz. Puff Paste, Apricot Jam. Roll paste thin and line a dish. Put some jam at the bottom. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add eggs one by one, beating each till well mixed, then the rind (grated), and apple (grated also). Mix all and pour into dish, and bake ^ hour. Spanish Jam Pudding. i lb. Butter, 4 oz. Sugar, 4 oz. Flour, teaspoonful Baking Powder, 3 Eggs. Jam. Beat butter to a cream; add sugar and flour alternately, then the eggs (well beaten), having mixed baking powder with the flour. Butter a mould; put jam at the bottom. Pour in the mixture; tie over with buttered paper and steam 1^ hours slowly. Sponge-cake Pudding. 6 Penny Sponge-cakes, 1 packet Bird's Custard Powder, 3 oz. white Sugar, Jam, and 1 pint new Milk.^ .... Cut the sponge-cakes into slices; spread each slice with jam (raspberry, strawberry, or currant jams are preferable); and place in a. dish. Make the custard with milk and sugar, and pour while hot into the dish. Let it stand until quite cold, and turn out. After