2U TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. MISCELLANEOUS. Brown Crumbs. (For Pheasants and Game.) Put some white crumbs into the oven, and when a nice golden colour put into a pan with a piece of butter, a little salt and pepper, shake well, then serve. OR, Shake crumbs into- hot butter in frying pan gently till bright golden brown ; drain ; spread on kitchen paper before fire till dry and crisp. To serve, arrange in little heaps round the birds. Browned Flour (for thickening'). Take as much flour as required, spread it thinly on a plate, and place in oven till brown, turning often. Bottle and keep tightly corked. Curd Cheese. 1 qriart Milk, juice of 3 Lemons. Put milk in a basin, add strained juice of the lemons to it, and let it stand in a temperature of 54 degrees, for 12 hours. Have ready a butter muslin about 18 inches square, put it over a basin and pour the curd into this, tie it round with string, and hang on a nail over a sink to drain for a few hours. Then put between two plates, with a weight on top, and press till all the moisture is pressed out. Tuim ouk and eat like ordinary cheese, or with sugar or fresh fruit. To Clarify Suet. Place in large stewpan minced suet, skin and fat of all kinds, with 1 pint water. Stir constantly and when froth rises skim. It is ready when water is evajDorated and fat is quite brown. Strain, when it is ready for use. To Clarify Dripping. Put dripping fi’om the roast (either mutton or beef) in pan with a little water to cover the bottom of pan. Let dripping thoroughly dis- solve. Pour into basin and stand all night. In the morning it will be caked. Lift out cake of dripping, and melt it in pan. Pour into jars. Twist paper round, and set away. Keeps splendidly. Flavouring Spices. 1 oz. each of Bay Leaves, Marjoram, Sweet Basil, Thyme, Ground Cloves, White Pepper, Ground Mace, and Nutmeg. Dry the herbs carefully in the sun, pull off stalks. Rub through hair sieve and bottle for use. Excellent for forcemeats, stews, soups, &c. Uses for Lemons. If the hair be falling out, rub the pulp of the lemon on the scalp. A few drops of lemon juice will mitigate the pain of a bee sting. A headache may be relieved by rubbing the temples with a slice of lemon. A corn or bunion may be relieved thus:—After bathing the afflicted foot in hot water, a few drops of lemon juice on the toe will be found very soothing. There is nothing better for breaking up a cold than juice of lemon, when boiled for 2 minutes, and taken as hot as possible at bedtime