TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 63 VegretabiG Marrow, au Gratin. Semi-boil a couple of marrows, quarter them lengthwise; drain thoroughly, and place upon a well-buttered dish, previously nibbed with a slice of shallot or garlic. Sprinkle over well with grated Par- mesan cheese; pepi>er and salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Lay small pieces of butter hei'o and there; dust over identifully with bread crumbs. Bake 20 minutes, and sei've quite hot in the original dish. VegfGtable Marrow, Stuffed. 1 r,arge Vegetable Marrow, 2 large Onio'iie, 1 teaspoonfiil of Sage, a break- fastciipful soaked Oread, 1 oz. of Butter, 1 lilgg, Pepper oud Salt to taste. Trim the marrow, cut in lialvcs lengthwise, take out the seeds; parboil the onion, and chop it line; mix it with the bread, sage, butter, pepper, and salt. Fill the marrow witli tlie mixture, put botli halves together; brush liutter over them, and liake i hour. This is excellent; some vegetarians call it “vegetable I'oast duck.” Mushrooms. To distinguish mushrooms IVom j)oi.sonous fungi, sprinkle a little salt on the spongy part, or gills. If they turn yellow they are poison- ous ; if black, they are wholesome. Or peel an onion and put it with the fungi while being cooked. If tiie onion remains white, eat with, confidence; but if it turns black, it is not fit to eat. Use a silver s])o,on in cooking mushiooms. The silver will blacken if any injurious property is present. Never re-heat mush- rooms. If any are left over, throw them away. They are liable to develop injurious propei'ties. Grilled Mushrooms. Skin and jieel and remove stems. Put on a i)late, season with pepper and .salt. Pour' over some melted butter, place in tin under gas grill and cqok first on one side then the other. Serve on toast. Mushrooms Stewed in Milk. ■ 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. Hour, pint milk, A lb. musliroums, pepper and salt, caj'cnne, a few drops lemon juice. Melt butter in pan, stir in flour, add milk, &c. Skin and remove stems from mushrooms, drop into sauce, and simmer slowly 15 to 20 minutes. Baked Onions. • Cook onions in boiling water till tender, but not broken. Lay in a buttered baking dish. Pour white sauce over. Sprinkle over bread crumbs, and set in oven 20 minutes to bi'own. Onions, Baked. Put on 3 large Spanish onions, cut in quarters, covered with water to boil. Briug to the boil, then pour water oft'; cover with fresh boiling water ; add a little salt; boil quickly until soft. Strain them, put in pie dish; pour white sauce over, flavoured with pepper and salt; sprinkle with bread crumbs and pieces of butter, and bake in oven until nicely browned. Onions, Stewed. Place 3 large Spanish onions in a pan, and over them pom- a gill of water, and add a little pepper and salt. Stew for 3 hours slowlr, adding a little more water if it dries iq). l)i.sh very hot, and pour