123 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. on your boui'd, luivo it dry, iind do not kiioad it ] roll out, und cox’cr your dish, or make into tartlets. Remember to keep back a little of the egg to brush over the top whenever you take it out of the oven. Genoese Pastry. 6 oz. Flour, 8 oz. Castor Sugar, C oz. Butter, 7 tiggs. Put eggs in basin with the sugar, and whip over hot water in another basin for about 25 minutes, till you get a thick substance like cream. Melt butter and sift flour j add a few drops flavouring. Mix very lightly. Pour into well-greased shallow round tin lined with well-buttered paper, and bake ^ hour. (Butter tin and paper with scum from melted butter.) This will keep in tin any length of time, and is capital to have ready for any emergency, say, in the country. It makes delicious sandwiches, puddings, or gateau. You might cut out in shapes, each a size smaller tlian the other. >Spread lueserved fruit or jam between each layer, cover with whippcnl cream; decoi'ate with dried cherries, angelica, or pistacliio nuts, itc. Ita.(ian Pastry. 4 lb. Flour, 2 oz. Butter, 3 oz. powdere<l Almonds, 2 oz. powdered Sugar, 2 tablespoon fills Orange Flower Water, 1 Egg, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, and a little Cream if neces.sarv. Rub flour and butter, sugar, and almonds well together witli tips of fingers; must be done very lightly to pi-event oil from almond curdling. Beat egg to froth, add orange flower water, and, if need be, the cream. Beat all to stiff dough. Turn on floured board, and work slightly. Only roll once. Roll out, and cut in shapes. Cook on greased tin in moderate oven till paste is a pale brown colour. 8ift plenty sugar over, and cool in a hot atmosphere. Serve separately, or spread a little jam on one side, with whipped white of egg and sugar, like a meringue mixture, and dry in oven ; or a little jam between, and stick two together. If you do not use powdered almonds, shell, chop, and pound others well. Must not be in lumps, or appearance spoiled. Ligfht Pastry for Boiled Puddings (Delicious). .3 tablespoonfuls Flour to 1 tablespoonful finely niinceil ,Suet, Salt, and Ctea- spoonful Baking Powder, I gill of Water. Mix well, but do not knead or roll out. Take knife and cut rft’ little pieces and cover a buttered basin, also the top ; rover over witli buttered paper. Puff Pastry (1). } lb Floi^ 1 lb. Fresh Butter, 1 yolk Egg, 1 teaspoon Lemon Juice Salt Cold Water. ’ ’ Squeeze the Initter in a floured cloth to remove any moisture • put the flour into a bowl, add the salt, make a hole in the'centre, and add the yolk of egg, lemon juice, and water enough to mix to a'-finn paste. Work it until smooth, then roll it out thinlv, place the butter pn one-half the paste, fold the other, and press the edges together Ret It stand in a cool place 15 minutes; now roll it out into a long piece, fold it in three, turn the edges towards jmu, roll again fold in three and set aside for another 15 minutes. Repeat this till the paste has been rolled six times since adding the butter. The seventh time the paste must be rolled to required thickries.s.