TRIED F AV on RITES COOKERY BOOK. 11? Herefordehire Pudding;. Peel and core 3 or 4 good apples; mince them fine, and to every i lb. of apple add the same quantity of bread crumbs, and currants picked and washed, J lb. of sugar, and half a nutmeg, grated. Beat up 4 eggs, and mix the whole together. It may be either boiled in a buttered basin or mould, or baked in a dish with paste round the rim. Serve with sweet sauce. Hillwood Pudding*. 1 lb. Prunes, i breakfastcup Bread Crumbs, 1 oz. Demerara Sugar, i tea- spoonful Baking Powder, i teaspoonful ground Ginger, and same of Cinnamon, grated peel of Lemon, 1 breakfastcup Milk, or juice of Prunes and 2 Eggs. Prunes to be well washed and soaked at least 1 hour, and stewed very slowly 15 minutes, with sugar and a little lemon rind in the water they have been soaked in. Stone and chop finely. Mix well with crumbs, &c. Only fill mould two-thirds full. Steam hours. Humble Pudding. 2 lb. Potatoes, mashed, 1 pint Milk, 2 Eggs well beaten, 2 oz. Sugar, and a pinch of Salt. Mix thoroughly, and bake f hour. Hydropathic Pudding. 2 oz. dates, chopped, 2 oz. crystallised ginger, cut small. Sprinkle layer of dates in buttered bowl, then ginger, then sliced cake or bread and butter, pressing lightly down into fruit, and so on, leaving cake last. Fill 3 parts full. Beat 2 eggs with dessertspoon sugar. Add J pint milk and pour gradually over pudding. Steam f hour. Serve with ginger sauce made with 1 cup water, 1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon chopped preserved ginger, and tiny piece of ground ginger. Boil together, and just before serving add yolk of egg and teaspoon milk. Stir till it thickens. Hygienic Pudding. 1 breakfastcup Granose Flakes, 2 tablespoonfuls Chestnut Flour, 1 teaoupful Bread Crumbs, i teacupful Sugar, i teacupful Dessicated Cocoanut, i teacupful Ground Walnuts or Hazel Nuts, 2 Eggs, and 2 tablespoon- fuls Milk. Mix dry ingredients and make into batter with eggs and milk. Steam in buttered mould 3 hours. Serve with cocoanut sauce. Indian Fritters. Put 3 tablespoonfuls flour into a basin, and pour over sufficient boiling water to make stiff paste, taking care not to have it lumpy. Leave to cool, then break into it, without first beating, yolks of 4 eggs and whites of 2. Stir and beat well together. Drop a dessertspoon- ful at a time into boiling dripping, and fry light brown. They ought to rise to be almost like balls. Serve on hot dish with a spoonful jam dropped between each. Lemon Pies. 6 Cream Toast Biscuits, 2 Lemons, IJ cupfuls Sugar, 2 Eggs, cupfuls boiling Water. For Pastry—3 teacupfuls Flour, J toaspoonful Baking Powder, 3 tablespoonfuls Castor Sugar, 1 teacupful Butter, and i cupful Milk. Roll the biscuits to a powder; pour on the boiling water; cover with a plate, and leave till cold. Then add sugar, eggs (beaten), grated rind of one and juice of both lemons. Line pie plates with