TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 171 Shortbread as made in Forfarshire (3). Take 2 lb. of butter; soften it a little; 3 lb. of flour, ^ lb. of castor sugar, and 6 oz. of rice flour. Mix the diy ingredients well logether, and work the butter thoroughly into them. This short- bread is lightest if pressed into an oiled and floured shortbread mould and turned out, but may be rolled out and cut. Bake in a moderately hot oven till a pale brown. Simnel Cake. i lb. Butter, i lb. Castor Sugar, 2 oz. Rice Flour, 7 oz. Flour, 4 Eggs, i lb. Currants. Mix rice flour with sugar, beat eggs and cream with the butter. Add all the other ingredients. Mix. Pour a layer of mixture into buttered cake tin, then a layer of almond icing, and so on. Bake in a moderate oven, and when nearly cooked through, take it out and cover with a layer of almond icing, an inch thick. Mark like a chess- board with a knife, and bnish with egg or milk. Ileplace in oven till quite cooked. Snow Cake (1). i lb. Potato Flour, 1 tablespoonful plain Flour, 1 tablespoonful Milk, 2 Eggs, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, a few drops Essence of Lemon, { lb. Butter, 1 lb. Sugar. Beat the butter to a cream. Bake 1 hour and 10 minutes in a slow oven. Snow Cake (2). 4 oz. Arrowroot or Cornflour, 4 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Rice Flour, 4 oz. Sifted Sugar, 2 oz. Flour, 3 whites of Eggs, few drops of Essence of Lemon. Beat the butter to a cream ; stir in the sugar, arrowroot, and flour gradually; at the same time beating tlie mixture. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the other ingredients, and beat well for 26 minutes. Put in flavouring, pour the cake into a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven from 1 hour to 1| hours. Soda Cake. i lb. Flour, i lb Raisins, i lb. Currants, | lb. Brown Sugar, 2 Eggs, i lb. Orange Peel, 1 teacnpfnl Milk, 2 oz. Butter, 1 teaspoonful Soda, 1 do. Ground Ginger, 1 do. Ground Cinnamon, J Nutmeg grated. Mix dry ingredients, warm butter a little, add beaten eggs to butter, then milk, then add,to mixture in basin. Bake at least 1 hour. Soda Cake (2). 1 lb. Flour, i lb. Dripping, i lb. Moist Sugar, a ib. Currants, 2 oz. Candied Peel, J pint Milk, 1 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. Mix dry ingredients together. Place the dripping in a basin a little way from the Are, and when it gets rather soft, beat it up with a fork till it is like cream. Mix a good teaspoouful of soda in 2 tablespoonfuls of the milk. Lay this aside till you mix with a knife the flour, &c., with the dripping and the milk. Then pour in the milk and soda. Beat well till thoroughly mixed. Place in greased cake- tin, leaving plenty room to rise. Bake slowly for ^ hour, then in a hotter part of oven for ^ hour or L/fiour. Spongf^^Cake (1). 6 Egga, 3 lb. Flour, 1 )». Sugar, teacupful Cold Water. _ Simmer sugar and water while you break eggs one by one into Imsin, beating eacla separateiy Add simmering sugar and beat t>‘U cold (10 minutes). Sift in flour and put immediately into moderate oven. Don’t open over door till cooked (1 hour).