141 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. basin. Add sugar, juice of lemons, and gelatine (not too hot), and switch till stiff. Pour into wet moulds, and turn out before serving. The yolks to be used for a custard to pour round it when turned out. Lemon Sponge (2). 2 oz. Gelatine, IJ pints of Water, 3 lb. Sugar, the juice of 5 Lemons, the rind of 1 Lemon, the whites of 3 Eggs. Dissolve the gelatine in the water; strain it into the saucepan, and add the sugar, lemon rind, and juice. Boil the whole for hour. Strain it again, and let it stand till it is cold and begins to stiffen. Beat the whites of the eggs, put them to it, and whisk the mixture till it is white. Put it into a mould, well wetted, and let it remain until perfectly set, and turn out. Lemon Sponge (3, easy way). 1 packet Gelatine, whites of 2 Eggs, 1 or 2 Lemons, i lb. Lump Sugar. Put the whites of eggs, sugar, and lemon juice into a basin, and beat up. Dissolve gelatine with nearly a pint of boiling water. Lot it remain till nearly cold, then whisk all together for ^ hour. Lemon Trifle. Break 3 sponge-cakes into a pie-dish, and pour over them a cus- tard. For this, take | pint of milk and put it into a saucepan with a dessertspoon of sugar and the rinds of 2 lemons. Heat the milk, then stir in a piece of butter the size of an egg. Have ready in a basin the yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten. Pour the hot milk over these, stirring all the time. If quite thick, the custard is ready, but, if not, return to the saucepan and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Whip whites to a stiff froth, with tiny pinch of salt; then add 1 dessert- spoon powdered sugar. Pour custard over sponge-cakes. Squeeze lemon juice over, and pile the sweetened whites on the top. Place the dish in the oven to brown slightly. / Macedoine of Fruit. li quarts Orange Jelly, a few dried Cherries, a few Oranges (quartered), blanched Almonds, Grapes, &c. Put in wetted mould about 1 inch of jelly, then add some of the fruit. Let this firm; add more fruit and jelly. Firm, and so on till mould is full. A Melon Compote. 2 lbs. Melon, 4 oz. Sugar, 1 teaspoonful Ground Ginger, a Bay Leaf. Take off hard outside of the melon, and ‘remove all the centre. Cut into pieces size of a plum. Make a syrup of the sugar, flavoured with a little of the melon peel, bay leaf, and ginger in about J pint of water. Simmer for about 1 hour and pour over pieces of meloii. Moonshine. oz. Gelatine, i lb. Sugar, 1 pint Boiling Water, 2 Lemons. Dissolve gelatine in a little cold water, utld boiling water and sugar, also the grated rind of the lemons. Boil for J hour. Strain and add the juice of 2 lemons. When nearly cold, whisk till it is snow-white. Set till next day in wetted mould. Omelette Souffle. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs and a tablespoonful refined sugar to thick cream with wooden spoon. Add 8 or 10 drops vanilla for flay-