2 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Austrian Soup. 1 lb. Brown Beans, 2 oz. Pearl Barley, 3 large Onions, 6 Cloves, 6 whole Pimentos, 1 lb. Carrots, about 12 outer stalks of Celery. Soak beaus overnight, broAvu cut onions in 1 oz. butter, cut can-ots and celery fine, and put all to boil in 4 quarts of water. Boil ■1 hours, then rub througli sieve. Add chopped parsley, marjoram, pepper and salt to taste. Baked Soup. (Especially useful when many pans are about, and room on stove is an object.) Put bones into an earthenware jar with some onions and a shallot with their brown skins, a carrot and small turnip, teaspoonful salt, few pepperco‘i*ns, blade of mace, small bunch of herbs, and a bay leaf. Cover well ivith, water. Place a plate on top, tie stout paper over, and bake in a moderate oven for 7 hours. Strain Avhile hoh Use next day with any ganiish liked. Cream of Barley Soup. 1 Tcacupful Barley, 1 oz. Butter, 1 Onion, ^ pint Milk, a small bit of Mace, 2 yolks of Eggs, a small bit of Cinnamon, 2 quarts White Stock. Wash barley, and put it in a. saucepan with the stock. Add onion, mace, cinnamon. Simmer for 3 hours. Strain, and rub through sieve. Return the stock to saucepan to boil.* Add butter, heat yolks and milk together, and add soup to them gradually. Remove the saucepan from the firei, and pour the Avarmed yolks among the soup. Add seasoning, and seiwe. Bone Soup. Bones Cooked or Uncooked, but it is better not to mi.v raAV and cooked bones. Bleak them and put in saucepan Avith 1^ pints cold Avaler to every 1 lb. of bone. Boil 4 hours at least. Strain. Tlien put in carrot, turnip, and onions, cut small; parsley, herbs, and \ lb. rice, pepper, salt. Boil another hour. Bone Stock. All kinds of Moat, Scraps, Cooked or Uncooked Bone's (if Liver or Kidney or Rabbit head, soak Avell in salted Avater to draAv out blood). All kinds of herbs and vegetables, except potatoes (no flour, to keep stock clear). 1 quart cold Water to 1 lb. of Bones, Salt, and Pepper. Bring quicklj- to boil Avith lid off. Skim thoroughly and simmer very sloAvly all daA' and even all night. Strain. Bread Soup. 2 Quarts good Stock, 6 oz. Crusts of Bread, 4 tablespoonfuls Cheese (grated), 2 Eggs, and half a Nutmeg (grated). Bring stock to boil. Add bread, cut into small pieces. Break 2 eggs into tureen and beat Avell. Add to' this the cheese grated and nutmeg. Then add soup gradually, Stirling Avell all the time. Season Avith salt and pepper, and serve hot. Broth (Scotch). 3 lb. Neck of Mutton or runner of Beef; 5 quarts cold Water; teacupful Pearl Barley, well Avashed in cold .Water; Vegetables. A nice fresh Marrow Bone makes as good Broth as either Beef or Mutton. W'lien Avater is hot, put in beef and barley. Let water boil, then throw in 1 teasiioonful salt. This causes scum to rise. Skim. Add 1 small turnip or | large, ent into dice; 3 leeks cut small, 1 small carrot cut into dice, dessertspooaiful of moist sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Let boil a feAv minutes after vegetables are added, Avith lid