TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 175 Beef Tea (Diabetic). 1 lb. Beof Steak, i pint Water. 1 teaspoouiul Plosmon. pnich of Salt Shrwl beef finely and place in the water to which the salt ann Plasmon have been added, and let it stand about 1 b«'H',; H^en pat into a pan and cook gently for 20 minutes. Do not let it boil, and stir well while cooking. Beef tea jelly may be made in the same way, using 1 gill water and 1 teaspoonfnl Plasmon. Beef Tea and Eggs. Beat the whites of eggs to a light froth, and add to it gradually a teacupful of beef tea or chicken broth, which must be hot, but not boiling. Beef Tea with Oatmeal. 2 tnblespoonfuls of Scott's Midlothian Oatflour, 2 tablespoonfuls Water. Mix them smootldj together; add a pint of good beef tea just brought to boiling point. Then boil them together for 5 minutes, stirring it all the timoi and strain through a hair sieve. Convalescent Beef Tea. i lb. lean juicy Beef, a small piece Carrot, small piece Turnip, a slice of scalded Onion, a blade of' Mace, sprig of Herbs, tiny sprig Marjoram, Parsley, pinch of Salt and Pepper. _ Prepare beef as usual; well wash vegetables. Put into jar, and cook as ordinary beef tea. When ready, strain and serve. Hasty Beef Tea. i lb. lean Beef to i pint Cold Water, and pinch of Salt. Beiiiove all fat and skin, shred beef, and mix with water. Put in Kinall pan and stir well over rather cool part of fire with spoon or fork against the sides of pan. Do this constantly about ^ hour, or 15 min- utes at least Raw Beef Tea (for fever). i lb. Lean Beef, i pint Cold Water, tiny pinch Salt, and tiny drop Lemon Juice. Stir well together and stand 2 hours, stirring occ.isionally. Give in coloured glass to disguise colour ; the lemon juice lielps the proces.?. For infantile wasting, and when child is very weak and sinking, raw teef juice has savorl mfjuy lives Cut beef into small squares, and I'.ound well till you see.a creamy-looking juice. Give either as it is, or warm by setting in a basin of boiling water. Give in teaspoonfuls to very young infants. For older children the pounded meat may be given in sort of sandwiches Beef Essence. 1 lb. Rump Steak, pinch of Salt. Shred the meat as before (removing all fat, skin, &c.). Put it into a jar with salt; well cover it down, and place it in a pan with hot water three parts up jar. Let it cook slowly 4 hours, lifting the lid and stirring it occasionally. Then press it through a sieve. 1 gill from 1 lb. for extreme cases of illness. Give in teaspoonfuls. Beef Tea Puddang;. 1 gill of Beef Tea, 2 tablespoonfuls of Bread Crumbs, 1 Egg, about i oz. of Butter. Soak the bread cimnbs in the beef tea for about 10 minutes, beat them well with a fork, add the egg, previously vvell beaten. Grease a small basin with the butter, pour in the mixture, cover with buttered paper, put the basip -into a pan of boiling water, the water coming half