87 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. SAVOURIES and BREAKFAST DISHES. Anchovy Toast and Poached Eg^gfs. Cut crusta off slice of toast, butter. Pbur teaspoonful anchovy •ssence over. Put near fire to melt butter, and prick toast with point of knife to let all soak in. Place poached eggs over, and sprinkle parsley on top. ,“Angrels on Horseback.” Take a slice of bacon, roll it up; take an oyster, and skewer it on the roll of bacon ; repeat until the ashet is fidl; balce in the oven. Baked Onion, Stuffed with Kidney. Take a largo Spanish onion, and peel; then cut off one end a thick slice, to fonn a lid while baking. Scoop out all the inside of onion. Then take some mutton kidneys; skin, and cut in half, seasoning with pepper and salt. Fill the onion with this, and place on the thick piece as lid. Put in a stewing jar with a little water and a small piece of butter. Cook for two hours, taking care not to allow it to get diy. Brains on Toast. Sheep’s or Calf’s Head, 2 oa. Chopped Ham, Pepper and Salt, 2 teaspoonfuls Cream. Soak brains in salt water and remove the fibre. Drop into boil- ing water and simmer 15 minutes. Lift out and remove skin. Chop up and mix with them the ham, cream, salt, and pepper. Pile up on buttered toast, sprinkle with brown bread-crumbs and minced parsley, and serve. Bombay Toast. Cut a slice of bread J inch thick, and then stamp out pieces the size of a half-crown,' and fry them a nice brown. Spread a thin coat- ing of any kind of pounded meat over them, and a little chutney over that. Put a piece of toasted cheese on, top of each one, and dish up. Celery Cream. i pint Cream, a few drops Essence of Celery, Salt, Pepper, Puff Paste. Switch the cream, then add the celery, and pepper and salt to taste. Roll out the paste, and cut into small rounds and bake them. After they are cold, pile some cream on each round. Garnish with press and a little grated cheese. Cheese Balls. Beat the whites of 2 eggs to stiff froth, stir in 2 oz. grated Par- mesan cheese, salt and cayenne to taste. Shape mixture into balls the size of marbles, and drop in boiling fat. Fry for 5 minutes till a golden brown, drain well, and sprinkle grated cheese over. Cheese Croustades. Roll out some puff paste, about 1 inch thick, inches long, and u ^ baking tin. TTie knife should be run lightly round each piecp of pastp, so that it cjvn bp liftp^l