TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK: 65 sieve. Mix tliem all well together; tie them firmly in a cloth and boil I hour; then serve the pudding with melted butter. Potatoes—How to Boil. Select as near in size as possible. Barely cover with water. Add as much salt as tastes water. Bring slowly to boil. The larger the potatoes, boil the more slowly, because the heat takes longer to pene- trate to the heart. For very large potatoes, a little cold water may be added once or twice during boiling. Drain before skin cracks in the least, but not quite dry. Steam 5 to 10 minutes with lid on and a few minutes with it off. Potatoes best boiled with skin on, unless when unripe and just in, and when old and out of season, in spring and early summer. When pared, do so very thinly—right under the skin is all the rich potass which is so beneficial to the body. When old, let them lie in cold water some time before using after peeling. If small and large are cooked at same time, put on large ones 10 or 15 minutes before small. If new potatoes bo soaked in water in which a handful of salt has been dissolved, for a few minutes before scraping, the skin will come off’ much more easily, or rinse the potatoes, then place in a canvas bag with a little salt and a sprinkle of water. Then carefully fold over the mouth of the bag. Take hold of each end, well shake the potatoes from one* end to the other, and all the skins will be found to be removed. Thoroughly wash in clean water. To boil potatoes when watery, score the skin of the potato with a knife lengthwise and across, quite around, and then boil in plenty of water and salt and keep the skin on. The skin readily cracks when it is scored, and lets out the moisture which otherwise renders the potato soapy and wet. Water placed in pan directly over a red-hot fire will, of course, boil more vehemently, yet it will not cook meat nor potatoes any quicker and not so well as water that just keeps at the boiling point and quickly simmers. Potato Balls. Cold Potatoes, small piece Butter, Pepper and Salt, 1 yolk of Egg, if liked. Work potatoes and butter together with back of wooden spoon until smooth. Bind together with a little milk, sufficient to form into balls without breaking. Sprinkle a little flour over your hand, and form into balls free from cracks. Brush over with beaten egg, to which has been added the' pepper and salt, and toss in bread crumbs. Let them lie a few minutes before putting them in fat. Fry in boiling fat for 3 or i minutes. Potatoes, Casserole of. Take 1^ lb. mashed potatoes, add salt, pepper, ^ oz. butter and i egg. Mix all well; flour a board and form it into a cake, with pyramid in centre. Put it on a greased baking tin; brush it over with the other half egg, and bake ^ hour. Place cutlets or sausages round. This may also be'made with rice or macaroni. Potatoes, Maitre d’Hotel. Boil or steam pared potatoes, carefully drying them. For 12 potatoes take 2 ounces butter, a little chopped parsley, and mix c