236 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. gloss on any polislied surface, silver-ware, &o.; and althougli the cloths may become soiled and dirty with constant use, they will never dirty the hands of tlie user, or lose their polishing power. A, word of waniing may be added as to the danger of using gasolene anywhere near a naked light or fireplace. .It is obvious, tlierefore, that the cloths should be dried in the open air ; once dried, of course, there will be no further danger. Various Remedies. Onion juice is one of the most effective remedies for earache. Wrap a large onion in heavy wrapping paper, wet it thoroughly, and roast in the coals. W^hen tender, strip off the skin and squeeze out the juice by twisting in a thin cloth. Bottle and save for use. When needed, pour one or tAvo drops in a spoon, warm a little, and drop into the ear. Afterwards put in a bit of warm cotton to ex- clude the air. It rarely, if ever, fails to effect a speedy cure. Ia’'y Leaves Cure fob Corns.—The ordinai'y climbing ivy fur- nishes a veiy inexpensive and easily obtainable remedy. Take a few of the leaves (say about a dozen), saturate for about three days in strong vinegar sufficient to cover them. Tlie leaves may be laid on as a plaster before putting the stockings on in the moniing, or the solur tion may be used as a paint with a camel’s-hair pencil. For hot, tired feet, try a little Paterson’s Clensel in bath water. Relieves wnder- fuUy. Curb for Toothache.—It is said that equal quantities of cvayenne and common pepper mixed with vinegar is a certain cure. The tooth should be plugg^ with a pill of the mixture. Lard and Camphor are excellent remedies for a cold m the head Or tightness of the chest, causing hard breathing. Soften a little fresh lard near the fire, and stir into it an equal amount of camphor. Pour into a tin salve box or open-mouthed bottle, and cool^ as rapidly as possible, beating all the time, that the camphor may be thoroughly in- corporated w'ith the lard, else the latter will settle tO' the bottom, and the camphor remain on the top. If one’s head be “stopped np,” mb aU about nose, as well as foreliead and temples. If a little be rubbed or snuffed up the nostrils it will be all the better. For tightness in chest rub thoroughly on throat and chest, and only a few applications will be needed to effect a cure. Mutton Suet is an excellent remedy for dry lips and chapped hands. Render it doAvn, mn into cakes, and use nightly. If you use M'Clinton’s Barilla Ash Soap, and diy the hands well, they will never chap. It is made from the ash of plants, and its mildness makes it par excellence a toilet soap. If the hands have become chapped, fill a pair of old loose kid gloves with well-Avrought lather of this soap, putting these on just when getting into bed, and Avearing till morning. Doing this for two or three nights will cure chapped, or even the more painful hacked, hands, where the outer skin has got hard and cracked down to the tender inner layer.—Dr Kirk. An Excellent Lotion for the Hair.—1^ oz. acetic acid, 1 oz. spirits of rosemary, 1 oz. glycerine, 2 oz. Eau-de-Cologne, and 4 oz. rose-water, i i -j a i. Hbalino Properties op Charcoal,—Charcoal laid flat while