TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. U9 is often omitted. Care should be taken to roll them on the slab as little as possible. Scones (2). . ^ , 4. 1 lb of prepared Flour, 1 teaspoon Sugar, piece of Butter sjze of walnut, small pinch of Table Salt, as much Milk as will make a nice consistency. Have the girdle very warm and thoroughly clean before starting, as it greatly depends on the firing. Put flour into a basin with sugar ; rub butter in till it is quite powdered with the flour ; add salt, and with a knife mix the milk, as this makes the scones lighter. Scones (3). 1 lb Flour, 2 oz. Butter, i oz. Sugar, 1 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, li teaspoonfuls Cream of Tartar, a little Salt, and sufficient sweet Milk to make into dough, not too stiff. Follow the directions given above. Scones (4). 1 lb Flour 1 teaspoon Carbonate of Soda, \ do. Cream of Tartar, pinch of Salt. 4. ■ , 14. Break up on plate carbonate of soda, cream of tartar, and salt. Add to flour, and mix to a very wet dough, with nearly 1 pint milk, preferably butter-milk. Flour board well, and knead in lightly as much more flour as it will take up. Do not knead it too much. This dough is better for standing a short time. The softer you put out scones the better. When scones are hard through, they are readj'. Only turn once. Scones (5). 8 oz. Flour, 2 oz. Butter, i pint Milk, i teaspoonful Baking Powder. Make into smooth dough and roll out any shape, f inch thick. Put immediately into moderate oven and bake 20 minutes. Scones (6). White of 1 Egg, 2 oz. Butter, 1 breakfaetcupful Flour, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, pinch Salt, i pint Milk. Whip egg and mix with milk. Rub butter and flour together, &c. Make into rounds ^ inch thick, and bake about 20 minutes. Barley Meal Scones. Put milk in pan with a pat of butter and salt to taste. Let it come to the boil and then stir in quickly barley meal till it is of the thickness of dough. Put it on the board and let it stand for a minute, then roll out quite thin and bake on a girdle over a pretty sharp fire, turning on both sides. Cover up in a cloth a little before eating. Serve hot. Brown Scones (1). 1 cupful Germ Meal or fine Bran, 1 do. Wheaten Meal, 1 do. White Flour, i teaspoonful Salt, i do. Cream of Tartar, ^ do. Baking Soda. Mix well together with butter-milk to rather soft dough. Turn out on a board and work a little. Meal drier than white, so it requires more room to swell. Roll out once, mark, and cut in shape. Bake on floured tin, say, ^ hour. Good test to put finger on top of largest one; if it feels firm, it is done. Brown Scones (2). i lb. Whole Meal Flour, \ lb. White Flour, 1 oz. Butter, 1 oiz. Sugar, 1 tea- spoonful Salt, 2 do. Baking Powder. Mix all dry ingredients, and rub butter in till no lumps are left. Mix with butter-milk to rather soft dough. Turn on to floured board ;