15 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Tapioca Soup. ■i good-sized T,eeks, 1 lb. Potatoes, 2 oz. Tapioca, 2d Milk, 3 lumps Loaf Sugar, 8 breakfastcups Water. Soak tho tapioca in tlic milk for 3 oi' 4 hours. Put on the leeks and potatoes with the water, and boil till soft. Rub them through a colander. Bring soup to the boil, add the other ingredients, and u small piece of butter. Boil 15 minutes. Tapioca Cream Soup. Wash not quite 4 cupful tapioca, and soak it all night in water. Next morning boil it in 1 quart white stock for 1 hour, taking care that it cooks very gentljq or it may “catch” at bottom of saucepan. While this is cooking, cut into small pieces 2 stalks celery, and slice finely 1 onion. Boil these for 20 minutes in a pint of cream or milk into which lias been put a blade of mace. When tapioca has boilecl 1 hour, add the strained milk, and season with salt and pepper. Stir in a piece of butter the size of egg, and serve very hot. (Good for rheumatism.) Tomato Soup (1). Slice 3 Spanish onions, and fry in butter until brown. Remove them, and fry 1 dozen sliced tomatoes or 1 tin tomatoes just sufficient to heat through, then put tliem with the onions and their gravy into a pot, ,add 10 breakfastcups boiling water, a blanched head of celery cut down, a carrot slicerl, and boil gently for 2 hours. Hien pulp the whole through a hair sieve, rinse out pot, return strained soup to it, add ^ teacup cream, and servo over small squares of toasted bread. on. Boil 2 tablespoonfuls of wliole rice in water, with a lump of butter in it. When ready add tliis pur6e to strained soup and serve hot. Tomato Soup (2>. For the stock, use the liquor in which tripe and onions were boiled ; when cold it will be quite a jelly. Put the stock in a pan, add 2 packets of Edwards’ Dessicated Soup (brown), stir occasionally till dissolved, add a tin of bnused tomatoes (as are sold for soup). Boil 1 hour or longer, strain through a sieve to' remove skins and seeds. Return to pan, add pepper and salt. Serve with pieces of dry toast. Cost—clessicated soup, l-|^d ; tomatoes, 5d per tin. “Bisque” Tomato Soup. li lb. Tomatoes, 1 Onion, 2 oz. Butter, Salt, Cayenne, IJ- ]unt Milk, Flour. Take tomatoes and onion, and a pinch of carbonate of soda, and boil in a little water hour. Rub this through a sieve, and add the cold milk. Work 2 oz. butter and a good tablespoonful flour into a paste, then stir it into the soup and let it gradually boil for a few minutes. Add salt and cayenne at the last, and a little cream just before serving. A tin of tomatoes may be used when fresh ones ai'e not in season. These do not need the first half-hour’s boiling. Mock Turtle Soup. ITalf a Calf’s Head, 2 lb. Shin of Beef, 1 Onion, 1 small Carrot, 24 Pepper- corns, 6 Cloves, 1 Bay Leaf, 1 blade Mace, 1 sprig Parsley, 1 sprig Marjoram, and a little Basil. Cut up beef, and clean h,ead thoi’oxighly. Take out brains anr(