/ 112 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. basin. Give the whole two or three stirs, and, when quite cold, fill the custard glasses. If the custard is allowed to stand for a night before being used, it should be well stirred up previous to putting into the glasses, and, if preferred, the slight skin at the top removed. Note.—Custard made with Bird’s custard powder according to this recipe is delicious, when served from a large glass dish, with every kind of pudding, fruit pies, jam tarts, or stewed fruit, and vill be found greatly to enhance the acceptability of such dishes. * The packet of custard powder referred to in these recipes is one of those contained in the 6d or Is boxes, of which there are three in the Gd box, and seven in the Is box. Custard fBird’s) as a Hot Pudding Sauce. This is extremely rich and nice with plum puddings, bread puddings, or indeed with any puddings. In cold weather it is also most acceptable with tinned or stewed fruits. The custard, after being made as above, is returned to the saucepan, and just brought to the boil, stirring very gently. Serve from a sauce boat or tureen in the usual way. Custard Pudding, Baked. 2 Egg.s, 4 oz. Sugar, 1 tablespconful Eice Flour, 1 pint Milk, and a little ground Cinnamon or Nutmeg. Beat up the eggs with the sugar, and mix the rice flour very smoothly with a little cold milk, adding the nutmeg, eggs, and sugar gradually. Boil the milk and pour over it, stirring all the time. Border a dish with paste, pour in the mixture, and bake for ^ hour. Before serving, put a little sifted sugar over it. OR, 1 quart Milk, 4 Eggs, 1 teacup Sugar. Boil the milk, beat eggs very light, add sugar, pour milk over very slowly, stirring occasionally. Grate a little nutmeg over. Bake in moderate oven. Tlie secret of a good custard pudding is slow baking and most careful watching. Boiled Custard (1). 4 yolks of Eggs, 2 whites of Eggs, ' pint Milk, 2 oz. Sugar, and Nutmeg. Warm the milk, and pour over eggs well beaten ; put all into a saucepan, and stir till it thickens, never letting it boil. Boiled Custard (2). 3 teaspoonful Plasmon, ^ pint Milk, 3 lumps Sugar, 1 Egg. Put the Plasmon in pan, adding gradually ^ pint lukewarm milk. Boil for 2 minutes, then add sugar and well-beaten egg. Stir till custard thickens, but don’t boil. Custard Cutlets and Caramel Sauce. Make a nice custard pudding with 3 eggs and a quart of milk in a shallow dish, cooking it so slowlj' that it will not curdle in the slightest. Flavour this with vanilla essence, but do not sweeten it. Make a caramel sauce as follows:—Place 2 ounces of loaf sugar in a saucepan, add a little water, and set the pan on the fire till the whole becomes a dark colour, stirring with a metal spoon. Pour in sufficient boiling water to dilute th,e sauce, and the colour should be like coffee. When the pudding is cold, peel off the brown skin on tlie top, cut it into pieces of even size, and arrange on a glass dish. Pour over the cold caramel sauce, and serve.