TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 31 glaze. Dish and ganiisli with aspic and parsley. The beef may be decoratetl with a little butter beaten till creamy and put into a forcing bag and tube. Roast Beef. I hour to each lb. Heat tin in oven, and when hot, place beef on rack. Haste well. Always have some water in oven to keep atmos- ])here moist. To dish, lift meat from tin, pour off fat, lexaving sediment in tin. Add to it, J teaspoonful bovril, good pinch salt, and cupful water. Stir over fire till boiling. (You have delicious gravy if you dredge beef well with flour when half cooked.) Steamed Beef. Tak© 4 lb. of lean beef, free from bone. Cut some narrow strips of bacon, and with a sharp-jiointed knife insert them, into beef, making small holes in the steak for the jnirpose. Cut up three large onions, and laj' them in bowl. Hub a little salt over the beef and lay it on the onions. Place lx>wl in pan of boiling water half way up, and steam 4 hours. When served, the meat will be deliciously tender, and there will be plenty of rich gravy. Brawn. i Pig’s Cheek, 1 Tongue (cured slightly). Seasoning—Pepper, Salt, Mace. Boil till tender. Cut in inch squares and put into a presser with n sprinkling of the above seasoning between each layer. Turn out when cold. Brawn (Russian). 1 lb. minced Beef, J pint Gravy, J oz. Gelatine, Salt, Pepper, Ketchup or Worcester Sauce. Make the gravy hot, dissolve gelatine in it, add minced meat and seasoning to taste. (Instead of gelatine you may use 14 oz. of sago boiled till clear.) Wet a mould or basin and pour in mixture ; set°it aside till firm. Before fuming out, put it in hot water. Decorate with parsley. Boiled Corned Beef. I • 1- . 1 round is best. If cold and pressed, the brisket, flank, and ribs will do.) Wash and put in cold water Allow i hour to tbe I’d. after it begins to boil. Let it stand in water till iieaily cold, lake out all bones from thin piece, wrap in a cloth and put on tfi-i’ge plate, with plate over and weight on top (flat irons will do). Let It stand over night. C)r, pick meat apart, fat and lean evenly mixed, and pack intO' a pan with plate set on top, then weight. You have thus marbled slices. Pressing always improves conied beef. , To Boil a Ham. nni r 1 piece of bacon, add a cupful of vinecrar and 6 cloves. It will be found to have a most delicious flavour and especially when cold. Rememb'er also to keep in pot OA-er-night which al^o improves flavour. Boil ^ hour to the lb. ^ ’ c/ X, m fot when boiling cabbage, onions, ham, and strongly-flavoured meat, and you ivill have no smell. m,. . Houg-h and iVlacaroni. _ this IS recommended to those thriftv wives who like to o luece 01 meat go as far as is consistent Aiuth nutritious feeding. Cut