TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. G2 Throw into pan of boiling water with plenty salt and a pincli of soda. Cook for 5 minutes, boiling rapidly. Have ready 1 gill white .sauce, add cucumber to it, with 1 taldespoonful cream, lemon juice, and 1 tablespoonful parsley, (tarnish with coraline pepper. Always begin to cut cucumbers at the thick end. The thin end often lias a bitter taste. Do not slice till it comes to table. You could then eat a whole cucumber witliout it being indigestible. If not finished, stand end cut in a basin of water. Ka.le or Curly Greens. 1 lb. fresh kale to 2 c^narts water, one heaped tablespoonful salt, piece of soda the size of filbert. Strip leaves from stjflks and wash thoroughly. Place in boiling water, and boil rapidly 25 minutes, or rather less if very fresh and young, but much longer if old. Drain well, pressing all water out with a plate. Leeks. 8 or 10 medium-sized Leeks. Trim off root and outer skin, wasting as little as possible; cut off top leafy part, so that all are one length. Throw in boiling salted water, and boil rapidly -J- hour. If very young, rather less time ; if fidl-grown, ratlier more. Drain well, and serve on toast with melted liutter over. If leeks are very small, tie in a bunch before putting to boil. Lentils, Dahl. i pint Egyptian Lentils, 1 Onion, 1 teaspoonful Curry, 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Dripping, i teaspoonful Sugar. Wash lentils well and let them soak all night; strain them. Fry the onion (sliced) to a nice brown in the dripping. In a saucepan put the lentils to them, with enough water to cover them, and let them boil f hour, stirring occasionally. When quite soft and smooth, let the water dry off, then mix in the curry powdei', sugar, and butter, and serve hot. They should be the consistency of mashed potatoes. Lentils, Indian Dahl. ] teaciipful each of Lentils, Milk, and Water, 1 teaspoonful Curry Powder, 1 Small Onion, Lemou .Tuice, H oz. Butter, Pej)per and Salt to taste. Lentils well washed, and soaked 12 hours in milk. Melt butter in pan. Fry onion pale brown ; sprinlvle curry powder, and fry a little (use iron spoon, and keep off fire). Add the milk and water, and stir till it boils. Then simmer 2 hours, stirring frequently ; add lemon juice just before serving. Pile on flat dish, marking neatly with fork. Decorate' with jiarsley or serve with rice. Stewed Lettuce. 6 or 7 Lettuces, 1 oz. Butter, 1 tablespoonful Lemon Juice, Pepper. Trim away all outer leaves and stalks (which are bitter), wash • carefully and boil in plenty water for 20 or 30 minutes. Drain and press well. Chop lightly. Put in clean pan with butter and lemon juice, and toss till quite hot. Serve with croutons of toast. A nice way of Cooking: Vegfetablo Marrow. Pare and cut in quarters, remove pulp, lay pieces in pie-dish, nearly cover with milk, and simmer till marrow is tender. Add a piece of butter, thicken with flour, add a little salt, and allow to boil up again in oven.