TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 185 This is a very palatable form of taking raw eggs, and the flavour- ing can be varied by any simple fiaiit syrup, or the juice pressed from any fresh fruit. Egfg: with Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, or Milk. 13i-eak the egg into a- teacup, beat with a foi-k till well mixetl. Pour in the tea, coffee, cocoa, or milk, gradually, Stirling all the time. This is very nourishing and good in cases of exliaustion from overwork or mental strain. Tea is of value in the sick-room;, if propeiiy prepared, and if not Used after G'o’clock in the evening. It is peculiarly refreshing after a restle.ss night. Tea must be made with freshly-boiled water’, which is just in the act of boiling over. Good tea cannot be made Avitli water that has been standing on the stove and boiling for’ some time. The teapot must be well heated with boiling water before the tea is put in. Put in immediately a teaspoonful of tea, add about ^ pint of fi’eshly-boiled water, let it stand in a warm place for .‘1 or I- minutes, pour off. Do not let it stand on the hob, as t:eai stewed oi’ boiled is most hui’tful. It is very much improved if the milk taken with it is liot, especially if the person to drink it is going on a jornriioy or likely to bo subject to great fatigue. Tea made with boiling milk instead of water will be found a most sustaining and delicious beverage. Cori’EB.—To make a cpiar’t of coffee take 2 m. good coffee, 1^ pints water, 1 pint milk, tiny pinch salt, arrd as nruch dry ri.ustaird as will lie on a shilling. Boil the water. Take hot dry jug (don’t rinse), put in coffee, salt, and mustard, and stir with fork. Pour boiling water over and stir well with fork. Stand to clear till you boil milk. Strain and give half boiling milk and half coffee. The mustard gives smooth crcaminess; salt draws out flavour. OK, 2 tablespoon fills freshly-groUiid coffee, i pint water and ^ pint milk. Bring water and milk to boiling point, stir in the coffee, allow it to stand covered for 5 or 6 minutes. Pour through strainer into jug. Cocoa.—1 teaspoonful Cadbury’s or Fry’s cocoa. Put in break- fast cup and pour over i cupful boiling water; stir, and fill up cup with milk. Pub this back in pan and boil up. Sweeten to taste. Fruit Salt. 3 oz. Carbonate of Soda, 2 oz. Cream of Tartar, 2 oz. Tartaric Acid, 2 oz. Eoeliell Salts, 1 oz. Magnesia, i lb. Sifted Sugar. OR, i lb. Pulverized Sugar, IJ oz. Tartaric Acid, 1 oz. Epsom Salts, 2 oz. Car- bonate of Soda, and about Id of Cream of Tartar. Mix and pound perfectly smooth. Dose—1 large teaspoonful in , glass of water. Gruel. Take of Kobinson’s Patent Groats 1 tablespoonful, mix with ^ gill of cold water, gradually added, into a smooth paste, pour this into a stew-pan containing nearly a pint of boiling water or milk stir the gruel on the fire (while it boils) for 10 minutes; pour it into a basin, add a pinch of salt and a little butter, or, if more agreeable, some sugar. Noth.—When gruel is made for an invalid, butter had best be omitted. i