TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 92 and sliape like a mutton cutlet. Dip it in the wliite of the egg, then into the bread cmmbs and fry brown ; ganhsh with fried parsley. Egfg: and Ham, &c., Dariolcs. Butter some tiny tin jnoulds. Sprinkle them round with chopped rongue, or ham, oi’ chicken, and finely chopped parsley. Break a fresh egg into each mould, and put a little piec6 of Initter on each. Stand the moulds in a stev.pau or frying-pan, letting the hot water come nearly to the top of moulds, and cook in the oven till the eggs are lightly set. Take them up, pass a small knife round the moulds, and turn them out on a dish on little round pieces of toast or fried liread. Pour tomato butter round them, and serve hot for breakfast or luncheon. Indian Eg^g;^s. Cut a small slice from each end of some hard-boiled eggs, and cut them into halves, the round way. Take out the yolks and pound them, and mix them well with a mixture made as follavs :—A heaped teaspoonful curry iDowder, 2 oz. butter, and a dessertspoonful essence of anchovy, well blended and cooked in a stewpan. Fill the eggs with Ihis mixture, dish up, garnished with watercress and rolled bread and butter. and Parsley Dish. Boil the eggs five minutes, cut off one end, and stand them up • on a flat dish. Pour round (not over) them white sauce, with a little salt and j^epper, and finely chopped parsley, and seiwe hot. Poached Egfgfs. 3 Eggs, 1 teaspoonful Salt, 1 quart Water, and a little Lemon Juice. Have water boiling, put eggs into it in their shells for about a (Quarter of a minute, lift out and break one at a time into a saucer, holding them very low so as not to break the yolk. Add salt and lemon juice to water, and carefully slii^ the egg O'ff the saucer into the boiling water; simmer slowly till the white is set. Lift out with a drainer, hold on a towel for a few seconds to absorb all the water. Dish on rounds of buttered toast or with bacon or ham. Poached Egrg:s with Cheese. Prepare as above, and dish on toast. Sprinkle with grated cheese, salt and pepper and brown under gas grill. Egg'S (Poached) and Potatoes. Boil some potatoes in the usual manner; cut into slices with a shai’p knife; put a j^int of these into a pan with a teaspoonful of lemon juice, cayenne, nutmeg, s.alt, pepper, and a drop of tarragon vinegar; pour over all a gill of milk, cover the saucepan-closely, and shake over the fire for ten minutes. Place the potatoes on a hot dish, and place poached egg over. Egg Savoury. Take four hard-boiled eggs and chop them fine, mixing with a dessertspoonful of flour, one of finely minced parsley, one of cooked ham (minced), one tablespoonful of cream, a piece of butter, and one egg. Form into balls; dip into finely sifted bread cnunbs, and fry a golden brown. Scalloped Eggs. Boil 5 eggs 3^ minutes. Chop up when cold. Mix together