TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 50 and mitmeg', i teaspoon salt, and | do. ]»epper. Mix, add l)eaten e>gg, and milk. Steam in buttered bowl i hour. Serve with brown saue®. Stewed Kidney. 1 Ox Kidney, 1 Spanish Onion, 1 oz. Butter, 2 tablespoonfuls Flour, 6 Cloves, Water, Salt, Pepper. Wash well the kidney, cut out the hard core, and into the space put the onion, stuffed with the clowes and the Ijutter. Mix the flour with a little water. Burn some sugar in iron spoon. Ovei' this, and on to mixed flour and water, pour enough boiling water to ex- tract colour of sugar, and set the flour. Pour this on the kidney. Stew in saucepan t hours, but covered close. To serve—take up kidney; if gravy is too thick, add a little water or ketchup, salt, Arc. Strain over kidney, and serve with mashed potatoes. A tasty way of doing: Liver. Place'in a stewjoan enoaigh beef dripping to fry either a large onion or several small ones. Cut your liver iu nice squares, not too thin ; brown them nicely in the stewpa.n. Add a little boiling water —a brown gravy if yon have it. Stew till tender, and season to taste. Before dishing, thicken the grav\' with cornflour. \ Liver a la Francaise. b Cut 1 lb. calf’s liver into slices inch thick. Grease a tin well. Put into basin 3 tablespoonfuls bread ciannbs, 4 chopped mushrooms, 1 finely chopped onion, 2 sprigs of parsley finely chopped, | teaspoon- ful salt, pinch of pepper and nutmeg-. Sprinkle this over each piece of liver, then put a verj^ tiny slice of bacon on each slice and place in tin. Pour pint water or stock over, and bake in cool oven f hour. Put I tablespoonful bread ci'umbs to brown. Arrange liver, etc., on dish. Add tO' gravy a little Worcester sauce. Boil up .uni pour round. Sprinkle bread crumbs on top. Liver and Bacon (Stewed). I 11). Liver, 2 oz. fat Bacon, 3 Onions, 1 pint Water, 2 tablespoonfuls Floitr, i teaspoonful Salt, { teaspoonful Pepper, 1- teaspooiiful sweet h'erbs. Cut l)acon in sniall pieces. Fry lightl3^ Slice onions, fi-j.' also. Mix together flour and seasoning. Sprinkle over. Stir smooth, then pour in water. Stir till it first boils up. Lay in liver. Simmer 1 hour or so. Liver and Bacon. 1 lb. Calf’s Liver, \ dozen slices of Bacon, 1 Onion, 2 oz. Dripping, Pepper and Salt, teaspoonful chopped Parsley. Cut liver into slices inch thick, 1 hour before cooking, and lay in a colander. This drains any blood away. Boll in flour, pepper, and salt. Fry bacon carefully; then the liver, and chopped onion in hot dripping and bacon fat. Mix a large dessert.spoonful flour in I pint water, season, and ponr into pan, and stir till it boils. Pour at once over the liver and bacon. Liver in Cups. Liver, boiled and grated; Bacon, Bread Crumbs, 2 yolks of Eggs, and Seasoning. ^ Steam in buttered moulds or cups. French beans or tails of leeks round the mould make a pretty garnishing.