TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 219 but ink stains. In washing coloured clothes, if a handful is put in the water the colour will nedther run nor fade. If used in frosty weather on doorsteps, bricks, &b., it fills the place of ashes, and is much clean- er. Among its many uses it will kill weeds on gravel walks. Damp Beds. To ascertain if beds are damp, place a looking-glass between the sheets for a few minutes. If upon its removal the glass be clouded, it may bo relied on that the sheets are not sufficiently dried, and they had better be removed, for it is bettor to put up with the discomfort of sleeping in the blankets than to stand the chance of catching cold or perhaps rheumatism. Chimney on Fire. To extinguish fire in chimney, shut the door and window of the room, throw a few handfuls of salt on the burning soot in the bhimney, then sprinkle a handful of sulphur on the fire, and immed- iately pin a cloth saturated with water over the front of the fireplace To Waterproof Cloth, Coats, Cloaks, Shawls, &c. Dissolve 2 oz. sugar of lead in 2 quarts of water. In anofliei* vessel dissolve 2 oz. alum in 2 quaits of water. When they are both dissolved pour one into the other, and stir them with a stick until they are well mixeil. Then let the mixture settle, and when a white deposit is formed at the bottom, pour off gently the clear liquid into another vessel, leaving the deposit behind. Put the cloth or garment into the clear liquid, and leave it there to soak for some hours, turn it over a few times before taking out, and then hang it up to dry. Polish for Ladies’ Boots. Mix equal proportions of sweet oil, vinegar, and treacle, and 1 oz. lamp black. When all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, rub on boots and place them in a cool place to dry. Brunswick Black for Grates. 1 lb Common Aspbaltum, i pint Liuseed Uil, 1 quart Oil of Turpentine. Melt the asphaltum and add gradually to it the other ingredients. Apply with a small painter’s bnish, and leave grates to' become dry. Polish for Steel. 1 tablespoonful tui’pentiue and 1 do. sweet oil. Mix and stir in sufficient emery powder to' make mixture the thickness of cream. Put on steel with soft flannel, rub off quickly with another piece, and then polish with emery powder and a clean leather. To Clean Bottles, Discolourations, and green marks from vegetation, &c., may be removed from bottles thus : —Put into the bottle a raw potato cut into small pieces, with a tablespoonful of salt and twice that amount of water; shake well until the stains are removed, then rinse in clear water. Stains of all kinds may be removed by rinsing the bottles first with muriatic acid (spirits of salt) and afterwards with clear water.