TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 132 Vennoise Pudding:. 4 oz. Bread, 3 Eggs, 4 oz. Sugar, 2 oz. Candied Peel, 2 oz. Sultanas, i Lemon, 1 large breakfastcupful of Milk. Cut the bread in small pieces, put in a basin with the peel cut up, raisins, and grated rind of, lemon. Put 1 tablespoonful of the sugar in a saucepan ; set it over the fire till it becomes brown. Add the milk, and stir over the fire till it becomes hot (not to boil). Put tlie remainder of sugar in the basin with other ingredients, then add to them the milk, which will be coffee-coloured; beat the eggs and stir them in the juice of lemon. Butter a mould, dust it with sugar, and decorate with cherries or sultanas. Pour in the pudding. Cover with a buttered paper, and steam for 1 hour. Vermicelli Pudding:. 1 teacupful Vermicelli, 1 quart Milk, Sugar, 2 Eggs, 2 tablespooirfuls Mar- malade. Boil the milk, and pour over the vermicelli; let it stand till soft; then beat well the eggs, and add to it, also tlie marmalade and sugar, . and bake in a buttered pie-dish. Victoria Pudding:. ] Egg, its weight in Butter, Castor Sugar, ground Rice, and Flour; 1 tea- spoonful Baking Powder. Cream the butter and sugar, then add the egg, and lastly the ground rice and flour and the baking powder, all mixed together; sprinkle a little in at a time j mix well; put into a pie-dish, and bake in a quick oven for ^ hour. Wafer Pudding:. 2 oz. Flour, li oz. Butter, 2 Eggs, and a little Sugar, ^ pint Milk, Jam. Beat flour, butter, and sugar together; beat well the eggs, add milk, and mix all. Pour into buttered saucers, and bake a light brown. Put jam in centre, fold over, and serve hot. Welsh Pudding:. 1 Egg, irs weight in Butter, Castor Sugar and Flour, a dust of Baking Powder, a little grated Lemon Rind, a good tablespoonful Jam. Line a shallow dish with short pastry, spread over the jam, beat sugar and butter to a cream, add the eg’g, rind, flour, and baking powder. Pour over the jam. Bake ^ hour, or till mixture is set. Dust sugar over and serve hot or cold. Yorkshire Pudding'. C oz. Flour, 1 pint Milk, pinch of Salt, and 2 Eggs. Mix flour and salt, add milk gradually, then the yolks and whites beaten separately. Pour into baking tin a good supply of hot drip- ping from the roast, and bake in a quick oven from 20 to 30 minutes OR, \ lb, Flour, \ pint Milk, 1 Egg, i teaspqonful Baking Powder, and do., Salt-