116 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. juice. Put juice in pan and bring to boil. To each pint of juice allow 3 tablespoonfuls of ground rice, and mix this smoothly in a little cold water. When juice boils, pour in ground rice and let it come to boil, stirring well. Then pour into wetted mould. Serve with cream or custard when turned out. Steamed Ground Rice Pudding;. 2 oz. Ground Rice, 2 o?.. Flour, 2 oz. Sugar, 2 oz. Raisins, 2 oz. Suet, pinch Sab, i teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, f teacupful Milk. Add all together, making the mixture very moist. Pour into greased mould and steam for 3 hours. Ging;er Pudding; (1). 1 lb. Bread Crumbs, \ lb. Flour, i lb. Currants, i lb. Raisins, 2 teaspoons Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon Ginger (ground), a little Nutiiieg or Cinna- mon, 4 tablespoons Brown Sugar, 1^ tablespoonfuls good Dripping, 2 Eggs, i pint Milk. Mix all well together. Pour into a buttered basin, and boil for 3 or 4 hours. Ging;er Pudding; (2). 5 oz. stale Bread, 2 oz. preserved Ginger, 3 Eggs, 3 oz. Sugar, i pint Milk. Beat eggs with sugar; boil milk, pour over; cut bread in small pieces; mix in ginger and tablespoonful ginger syrup. Pour eggs and milk over. Soak ^ hour, then steam 1| hours. Gladstone Pudding;. 1 lb. stewed Prunes, IJ cupful of Suet, 1 cupful of Bread Crumbs, 1 cupful of Flour, 1 Egg, i teaspoonful of Soda. Mix with butter-milk, and boil 2 hours. (Chop and take out the stones of the prunes before mixing with the other ingredients.) Golden Pudding;. 2 Eggs, their weight in Butter and Flour, weight of 1 in Sugar, 2 tablespoon- fuls Raspberry Jam or Marmalade, and as much Baking Soda as will lie on a shilling. Cream the butter, and beat whole together for J hour. Boil 2 hours in buttered mould, and serve with melted red currant jelly. Golden Syrup Pudding;. 6 oz. Flour, 6 oz. Golden Syrup, 4 oz. Suet (chopped fine), 1 Egg, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, 2 tablespoonfuls Milk. Mix all well together, butter a basin or mould, and boil 3 hours. Cooked Grain To cook grain wdthout stirring, put the rice or other grain in tin canister (preferable to earthenware, because tin is a good conductor of heat) with a tight-fitting lid. Set in saucepan with boiling water f up tin. Cover, and keep water boiling fast till grain is cooked. If no canister is handy, a mould or cake tin will do, covered with plate or greased paper twisted tightly round. Room must be left for grain to swell, and a little butter will hasten the cooking. Half-pay Pudding;. i lb. Suet, i lb. Flour, ^ lb. Sugar, i lb. mashed Potatoes, i lb. grated Carrot, f lb. Currants, 2 oz. Peel, a little grated Nutmeg, 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder, 1 breakfastcupful Milk (heated). Mix, and j)ut in greased basin ; cover with plate, which tie on tightly with pudding cloth. Boil 6 hours, and servo with sauce. May be baked in little moulds, and served with sifted sugar over. Without ex^iggerating, it may be said that this pudding is equal in nutriment to 1| lb. beef steak.