90 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Worcester sauce, and some grated Parmesan cheese. Wann, and place the mixture on rounds of fried toast, which put in the oven, and serve very hot. Creams of Anchovies, or Lobster, or Salmon. Pound the meat in a mortar with fresh ljutter, a little cayenne, and a few drops lemon juice (and with lobster or crab a little anchovy sauce), spread on fried croutes of bread, and bake 10 n)inutes. Serve hot. Creme de Fromage (for 4 Persons). 2 tablespooiifuls of grated Cheese, not quite 2 tablespoonfuls Cream, a very little Cayenne, and Salt. Mix into a smooth cream, and spread on some thin puff paste which has been cut with a round cutter; double it over; press the edges well together ; egg and vermicelli them, and fry in boiling lard. Sciwe hot. A Croutes au Jambon. Prepare fingei’S of fried bread (or round pieces). Mince fine some cold ham or cold meat, and made hot in good brown sauce, but keep stiff, spread on the croutes, and bake 5 minutes. • A Croutes de Merluche. Prepare round pieces of fried bread. Take a tliick fresh smoked' haddock, and with a fork take all the meat off the bones, and pile it in neat bunches on the croutes. Sprinkle on a little cayenne, and pour over a few drops of good salad oil; bake abou 10 minutes in shai’p oven, and serve hot. A Croutes of Marrow. Cut the marrow into inch lengths, and blanch for a minute or two in boiling water, flavoured with herbs. Take fingers of pastry or fried bread, and put pieces of marrow' on each. Sprinkle finely chopped parsley and a little lemon juice, bake 10 minutes. Serve hot. Croutes of Sardines or Bloaters. Make in the same way, adding cayenne, filleting the herrings, and buttering the bread before baking 10 minutes. Cup Omelets. 1 breakfastcupful Bread Crumbs, 1 Onion, 1 oz. Chopped Pasley, 2 Eggs, li teacupful Milk, Pepper and Salt. Boil and chop onion, beat eggs, mix all well. Pour into buttered cups and bake in hot oven 30 minutes. Serve on hot ashet with tomato sauce. Curry Balls for Breakfast. 4 lb. Rice (boiled), i lb. Meat (cooked), tablespoonful Curry Powder, Salt, Sugar, Apple, and Onion. Mince the meat very fine; mix with cooked rice, curry, apple (minced fine), and onion, a little salt and sugar, and an egg. Mix all together, and form into small balls. Egg and bread-crumb. Fry, and serve very hot. Curry Souffle. i lb. Veal, i lb. Bacon, 1 lb. Sweetbreads, 1 lb. Button Mushrooms. Rub cut veal and bacon through sieve, and parboil sweetbreads.