206 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Lemon Syrup (1). * 3 lb. Loaf Sugar, 6 breakfastcupfula Cold Water, 1 oz. Citric Roll the lemon to soften it, pare the rind off the lemons, put it in a pan with the water, and boil gently for ^ hour. Add the juice of the lemons, and boil another \ hour, with the lid on. Strain. Boil gently with the sugar and acid for 5 minutes. When cold, bottle for use. ’ Lemon Syrup (2), 1 oz. Tartaric Acid, 3 lb. Lump Sugar, 1 teaspoonful Essence of Lemon. Pour 3 pints of boiling water over the sugar. WTien lukewarm add the acid and lemon. Colour with burnt sugar. Lemon Syrup (3). Bring to the boil 6 lb. of lump sugar, ^ lb. of tartaric crystals, and 2 quarts of water. When cold, add 2 drachms oil of lemon and bottle; will keep any length of time. Lemon Squash. 1 lb. Sugar, 2 oz. Citric Acid, 1 pint Cold Water, 5 drops Essence of Lemon. Boil 3 minutes. A Lesson on Milk Drinking^. Few people know that there is a good and a bad way of drinking milk. The bad way is that which they generally follow, viz., to swallow a large quantity at once. When milk goes into the stomach it is in- stantly curdled, and if it is curdled into one big mass, the juices of the stomach can work on only the outside of it. This is the reason that many people who like milk, and to whom it should be of the utmost benefit, cannot drink it. They say it gives them indigestion, and they are right. Let them give it another chance. But this time they must sip it slowly, not taking more than a good teaspoonful at one sip, and taking at least four minutes to finish the glassful. Each little sip thus becomes curdled up by itself when it passes into the stomach, the digestive juices percolate freely around it, and it speedily becomes assimilated. One of the best restoratives known after excessive fatigue, and one infinitely preferable to any fomi of alcohol, is a glass of hot milk. The heat seems to lighten it, and to deprive it of much of the sweetness which is so cloying tO' some tastes. A little bread should always be taken with milk. Oatmeal Drink (1). ' 1 heaped teaspoonful oatmeal at bottom of tumbler Pour a little cold water over, and stir well; fill up half way with boiling water, then to the top with boiling milJe; season with salt. (Splendid for nursing mothers ) Oatmeal Drink (2). When placed by the side of any alcoholic drink it shows itself in- finitely superior, and much cheaper, Take of fine oatmeal ^ lb.; coarse sugar lb.; ground ginger ounce; essence of lemon 30 drops ; boiling water 1 gallon. Pour the boiling water over the other ingred- ients, stirring well all the time, then boil the whole for about 3 min- utes. A thicker and more nourishing drink can be made by adding ^ or f lb. of oatmeal to the gallon of water. Oatmeal Drink (3). Mil 4 ounces of oatmeal with 9 qiiarts of cold water. Bring it