i:50 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Swiss Pancakes. I pint Milk, 2 Eggs, 1 oz. Sugar (2 teaspoonfuls), li oz. Flour, grated rind of 1 small Lemon. Dissolve sugar in milk. Beat eggs, adding pinch salt; add milk. Stir very gradually into flour (just like Yorkshire pudding). Grate lemon rind to batter; then i^our at once into three well-greased saucers. Bake in quick oven. Spread a little jam on each while in saucer, fold in half, and dredge with castor sugar; or spread jam on one, and place other pancake on top. Cut in three-cornered ways. Swiss Roll (1). 1 lb. Castor Sugar, lb. Flour, 2 Eggs, J teaspoonful Baking Powder, some Jam, and 1 pint new Milk. Put sugar in a basin, and add the eggs to it; beat and stir with a spoon ; then the flour and baking powder, thoroughly mixed. Have a small-sized roasting jaan; grease it well, and spread a piece of paper on bottom only; grease the paper also. Pour all the mixture out on this, and put in a hot part of oven till ready; it should only take five minutes. Have'a paper spread on the table, with some sugar sprinkled on it; turn the cake upside down on this, and remove the greased paper. Sjjread all over with jam, and roll it up; this must be done quickly. Swiss Roll (2). 3 oz. Flour, 3 oz. sifted Sugar, oz. Butter, 2 Eggs, ^ teaspoon Baking Powder, 2 tablespoonfuls Milk. Beat butter and sugar to a cream; beat eggs till very light, and add them gradually to the butter and sugar; then add flour slowly, and baking powder last. . If the mixture is too stiff, a little milk may be added. Pour into a greased flat tin, and bake in a quick oven 15 minutes. Tapioca Cream. 2 good tablespoonfuls of Tapioca, 1 pint of Milk, 3 -oz. Sugar, pincli of .Salt, i teaspoonful Vanilla, 2 Eggs. Wash the tapioca in boiling water ■, soak in the milk for 10 min- utes, then boil till transparent and well cooked. Stir in the sugar, salt, and vanilla, and when just cool enough the yolks of the eggs; have the whites beaten to a stiff froth; stir these lightly but thor- oughly to the other ingredients, and pour all while warm into the dish for serving. Serve when quite cold. Tapioca Pudding- (1). Put a teacupful of tapioca to'steep in cold water over night. Pour It into pan with a little water, and keep stirring till it boils. Take a tin of preserved pine-apples or peaches and cut them up in nice little 23iec6s, add to the tapioca, with half the syrup. Boil up again Until tapioca is quite transparent. Pour into a glass dish, and when cool cover with cream whipped and sweetened, and piled up roughly. Ornament with stripes of angelica. Tapioca Pudding (2). ^J'eacupfid of tapioca with | pint milk in a saucepan. Boil it, draw it aside, and let it swell very slowly ; beat up 2 or 3 eggs, and add them with sugar and flavouring, and bake in oven.