24 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. fish free from bones, then macaroni, then a little sauce, next some cheese, and so on, lastly the bread crumbs. Shred dripping over all. Heat through in oven, and brown on top. Fish Pudding: (2). Butter mould thickly and throw in brown bread crumbs. Take cold fish and double quantity of potatoes, salt, pepper, and a few grains cayenne pepper (| oz. butter, melted, to each lb. of potatoes, and ^ egg to each lb.) Mix well. Fill mould. Place a small piece butter on top and bake 16 minutes. Fish Pudding: (3). Bone and skin 2 raw fresh haddocks, pound them in a bowl, and inib them through a wire sieve; then put the fish into bowl with 2 eggs, a little parsley,, and an onion, cut small; sonne white pepper, a little salt, a teacupful of bread crumbs, and 4 oz. of marrow; pound all well together; put into a greased mould, and steam 1 hour. Boiled Salmon. Empty the salmon and wash it, but handle the fish as little as possible, to prevent the scales being rubbed off. Put in fish-kettle enough water to cover the fish. When it boils, put the fish in and let it boil for 6 minutes, then put 2 breakfastcupfuls of cold water in to re- duce the temperature, and put kettle on a cooler part of the fire; allow it to remain thus under boiling-point for the proper time, then take kettle off fire and allow it to stand for 10 minutes before removing the salmon. This improves the flavour and makes the fish finner. Table of time to boil Salmon :—A slice (1 lb.), J hour; 3 lbs., 25 minutes; 6 lbs. (thick), 40 minutes; a grilse (7 or 8 lbs.), ^ hour. Salmon Cutlets. ‘To evei-y 6 oz. salmon add 2 oz. mashed potatoes, white pepper, cayenne, salt, and mace to taste. Mix well and form into cutlets. Brush over with beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling fat. To Kipper Salmon. i lb. best brown Sugar,- 1 lb. Salt, 2 oz. poAvdered Saltpetre, i lb. black Pepper, a little Allspice. Lay the fish on a board and cover with the above. Lay aside for 3 days. Di-y in the sun, and it is ready for use. Salmon Mould (excellent). Take cold boiled salmon, to weigh, when free from skin and bone, 1 lb. Place in a basin, and with a fork break it up quite fine, add 3 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs^ 2 oz. of butter, 1 -teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper (cayenne), a little anchovy sauce if liked, and 2 eggs. Mix into a smooth paste. Put into buttered mould and steam for f hour, or, if preferred, put into a buttered cake-tin ancPb'ake for hour. Turn out, pour melted butter, flavoured with anchovy sauce round it, and decorate with chopped parsley. Salmon Rissoles. 1 tin salmon put into bowl, keeping back a little liquor if too wet, 1 teacupful bread crumbs, pepper and salt. SAvitch 2 eggs, or 1 egg and tablespoonful milk, and add. Divide into little round pats, and fry ; or make balls, keeping back white of 1 egg to brush over. Tlien roll in fine bread crumbs, and fry in boiling fat.