232 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Lamps. Clean lamps early in the day, then turn wick down. Clean daily, or flame may dance and flicker. Keep burner very clean, inibbing off burnt oil with emery from time to time. Fill lamps 3 parts full only, and use good oil. It is false economy to use cheap paraflSn, which gives an inferior light, smells badly, dirties the lamp, and is decidedly dangerons. In lighting lamp, turn up flame gradually. To extinguish lamp, turn flame down till it begins to flicker, then give a shai-p puff across 4op of funnel. Never refill lamp while lighted. Every now and then the lamp needs a thorough cleansing. The oil should be carefully emptied away, so as to leave any dregs in the bottom. This may be put into a bottle, and can be kept for stable, coach-house, or other purposes. Wlaen the lamp has been well washed in soda water and dried thoi’oughly the other oil can be poured back again, and added to, till the reservoir is almost full. Before putting on the brass part that holds the globe and chimney, this too must be freed from all impurities, and all pieces of charred wick turned out fmm the edge; the air holes and buniers must be kept clear and open. It will then be found that the lamp will bum clearly, giving out a bright, white light. Cut lamp wicks very occasionally.—Instead of cutting, the burnt part should be rubbed with a soft piece of rag until it is even with the burner.. Wlien a wick is a trifle tight for its tube and -will not move up and down easily, draw out one or two of the threads from one side. * , To prevent new lamp wicks from smoking, soak them thoroughly in vinegar before using, and let them dry before being put into the lamp. Wicks treated in this way seldom smoke, and give a dearer light than if put in as they are. A bit of camphor about as big as a small hazel nut put into the oil reservoir also improves the light. To prevent lamp smelling be careful after filling to wipe any drops of oil off vessel. Turn wick below level of burner after cleaning. This prevents oil from running over edge of burner. If a lamp smells or smokes, put a teaspoonful vinegar in lamp. Will cause clear light and prevent unpleasant odour and smoke. To wash lamp chimneys, tear old newspapers in small pieces, dip into water which has a little ammonia dissolved in it, and wash the lamp chimneys. Just rinse, drain well, and polish with a leather. Excellent lamp wicks may be made out of men’s sdt felt hats by cutting them into slips the width you want your mcks and letting them soak in vinegar for a couple of hours, then drying thein. A pinch of salt put into the paraffin tin or cask will lessen the danger of explosion. , . . If a lamp gets overturned water will be of no use in extin^iishmg the flames. Earth, sand, ashes, or flour ft™"'" desired effect. Smother flame with a rug, &o., and shut all doois and windows. To Wash Linoleum. Take 1 oz of fine glue size and dissolve it in a pint of hot water, Btir with a stick till all is dissolved. Wash over linoleum with a