TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 64 good brown gravy round. Scatter chopped capers over the onions just before serving. May add a very little sugar when boiling. Onions, Stuffed. Take a large Spanish onion; scoop out the centre; peel and blanch it; fill centre with forcemeat, and place it in a stewpan. Cover it with slices of bacon; sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cool? over a quick fire. When done, remove the onions; reduce the sauce, and pour over, and serve. The forcemeat can be made of chicken, ham, parsley, mushrooms, and some chopped suet, all finely minced together, with pepper and salt to taste. Fried Parsley. Wash, pick, and dry the parsley; put it into a frying basket and immerse in hot fat 15 seconds, till crisp, keeping it green (if black, it has been too long in the fat), drain on soft paper and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Instead of keeping parsley in water, which often turns it yellow, put it in an air-tight jar in a cool place. This will keep it fresh for some time. Parsley must be quite dry. Parsnips. Cut lengthwise in halves. Put in plenty boiling water. Boil f hour, or till tender. Mix teaspoonful flour, teaspoonful butter, \ teacupful milk, pepper and salt. Stir till boiling, add parsnip, shake over fire till hot, and serve. Parsnips are much improved by being boiled in two waters. Pour off when half cooked, and put in fresh boiling water till tender. Good also mashed like turnips, and a tablespoonful of tomato may be added, or a few drops vinegar. Pa.rsnip Balls. Add to very finely mashed parsnip, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 1 teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon pepper, and 2 tablespoonfuls milk. Mix all smoothly together, then add a beaten egg. Form into balls, egg, bread crumb, and fry in boiling fat. Peas. To re-warm cooked peas, put in deep dish, pour boiling water over, cover and stand 10 minutes. Will look as fresh as new. Green Peas. peck peas, boiling water salted, sprig of mint. If peas are old, a teaspoonful moist sugar. No soda, as it causes peas to smash. Boil at a moderate rate for 16 or 20 minutes, and drain well. To Boil Dried Green Peas. pint peas soaked all night in water, with a little soda, and look over to see none worm-eaten. Pour off water next day and throw into boiling water, salted, and boil 1^ hours. Drain well and serve in vegetable dish with a small piece of butter and a little pepper added. Peas Pudding: (or German Lentil). 4 pint Peas soaked overnight. Boil the peas, whole or split, in a cloth loosely tied 2 or 3 hours, or till they are soft, then pidp them through a sieve. Add salt, pepper, butter, and some well-boiled potatoes, also passed through a