'TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 225 tended to, silk will be cloudy. TliorL add 1 tablespoonful methylated spirits to a bowl of cold rinsing water, shake well, and ii-on while wet, first with cloth over. If white silk is inclined to tura yellow, let it lie after washing in cold water, for a little. Tlien finish off, adding a little blue and methylated spirit to rinsing water. To Wash Chamois Leather. Put first into tepid water, then in two different soapy lathers. Wash by drawing through forefinger and thumb. Don’t rinse. Shake, and dry quickly, pulling often when drying, to soften. To Wash Shetland Shawls. Squeeze them in two soapy lathers. To the rinsing water add thick-made starch in proportion of 1 tablespoonful of starch to IJ gal- lons of water and a little blue Do not wring, but squeeze. Fold in towel, beat Avith hands till nearly dry, lay a sheet on floor, cut four equal pieces of tape exact size of shawl, pin these on sheet where four sides of sliawl should come to and pin out carefully through the tape to sheet. Leave till dry. To Wash Stockingfs. Shake well. Soak in lukewarm water and soap jelly (no ammonia) for J hour to remove the dust. This makes them require much less rub- bing. (It is a good plan to cover over tub with an old blanket to keep in heat and prevent shrinking.) Place next in lukeAvarm water and soaf jelly, and soap will be required to rub on the dirty parts. Take the side part of the foot and lay it over the hands and nib with soap. Stockings nearly ahvays dirty, so require to bo rubbed. Now, put hand inside and mb soles same way, and, lastly, Avash leg by squeez- ing. Turn stocking out for second Avashing, by squeezing only, and put through Avringer, toe first. Rinse in t.Avo lukeAvarni Avaters, putting through wringer each time. Put 4 times through Avringer and shake Avell, and hang up by toes. To Wash Black Stockingfs. To every tAvo gallons of lukeAvarm Avater add a handful of salt and 1 tablespoonful vinegar. Do not forget to shake before washing. Slue the rinsing water to prevent them turning green. Never put blue and vinegar into one Avater, as the one counteracts the other. To Wash Silk Stockingfs (Coloured or Black). Wash with warm bran water (no soap). (See recipe for washing prints). Squeeze, don’t wring, and dry in the shade. To Wash Black Materials. Make a lather by adding a tablespoonful of soap jelly, and' two level teaspoonfuls of powdered borax to a gallon of water of about 110 degs. Work the material up and down in this, drawing it through your hands, but not rubbing it. -Rinse in two lots of clear lukewarm water, and hang in the shade (Avithout wringing) till nearly dry. Pull each piece into shape when hanging on the line. Iron on the wrong side when nearly dry, and continue ironing till quite dry. For other woollen articles, such as children’s dresses, shawls, die., fvhere there are green or other fancy colours, add to your soap jelly ^ gill of spirits of turpentine, and a tablespoonful of spirits of harts- 11