136 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. into a mould lined with slices of banana. Serve cold, ornamented with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured. Calves’ Feet Jelly. Take either an ox’s or 4 calves’ feet (ox as good, if thoroughly blanched, and all neat’s foot oil taken out). Wash thoroughly, and put in pan with enougli cold water to cover. Bring to boil; throw this water away aud thoroughly wash again, and take all neat’s foot oil out of crevices with back of spoon. Put on with 2 quarts cold water, and boil 5 hours^with lid on. Strain, and put aside to cool, and skim by dipping spoon in hot water and passing over surface, removing all fat. Put stock in pan with rind peeled very thinly from 2 lemons, and juice, 5 ounces loaf sugar, 8 or 10 cloves, 1 inch stick cinnamon, and whites and shells from 3 eggs. Put pan on Are, and with whisk beat till stiff white froth appears, something like soap suds. Remove whisk, and draw pan slowly to side of Are. Let stand a minute or two; boil up again; let remain by side of Are with lid on for 12 min- utes, then strain. Charlotte of Fruit. Line a deep mould with bread about \ inch thick; pour into this any kind of boiling fruit (damsons are best) ; let it stand till next day. Pour whipiied cream or custard over it after it is turned out. Charlotte Russe. li oz. Gelatiue, 1 pint Milk, i pint Cream, riiul of i Lemon grated and juice of the same, 2 oz. Sugar, 4 oz. Macaroons, Whites of 4 Eggs. Soak gelatine in a little of the milk. Whii^ whites of eggs very stiff, also the cream. Boil the rest of the milk with the sugar and lemon rind. Add it to the gelatine, stirring all the time. When dissolved turn into a bowl and mix all together. Add lemon juice and beat well. Line a plain buttered mould with the macaroons, pour mixture in, and let it stand till next day. May be coloured with cochineal if liked. Chocolate Cream. 1 quart sweet Milk, \ lb. Chocolate, 1 lb. Sugar, 6d packet Gelatine (VanUla flavouring). Grate chocolate, mix all ingredients but the flavouring, and pour in good sized jug. Stand in saucepan of cold water, stir occasionally, and when water boils 15 minutes, cream is ready. Stir now and then till nearly cold. Add flavouring, and pour into mould. To make mould turn out, dip 1 minute in boiling water. Chocolate Souffle. Blend large dessertspoonful arrowroot with ^ pint milk, 2 oz. grated chocolate, piece of fresh Imtter size of walnut. Bring all to the boil for 1 minute, then cool. Beat whites of 2 eggs to stiff froth; mix beaten yolks with arrowroot and fruit, then pounded sugar to taste.(2 tablespoonfuls), and lastly the stiff whites. Bake in a mod- erate oven from 20 to 30 minutes. Chocolate Spong^e. 4 whitee of Eggs, 3 oz Cadbury's Chocolate, a little Vanilla, i tiu of Pine Apple, 2 tablespoonfuls of Water. Chop chocolate into very small pieces, then put it into the water in saucepan, and stir till it is all melted. Add a few drops of vanilla.