11 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Mulligratawny Soup. 1 quart Stock, 1 oz. Ham, 1 oz. Butter, 1 teaspoonful Curry Powder, i tea- spoonful Curry Paste, 1 Turnip, small piece Carrot, 1 email Apple, 1 tablespoonful Flour, squeeze Lemon Juice, Pepper and Salt. Cut the onion in rings and the ham into small dice. Make the butter hot in the pan the soup is to be made in. Fry the onion and ham, and when brown add tlie vegetables (cut in small pieces), the ciiriy powder, paste, and stock. Let all simmei' 1 hour, then strain tlirough a hair sieve. Mix a. tablespoonful flour with cold water, stir into the soup, and keep stirring till it boils. Mushroom Soup. 1 lb. Mushrooms, 1 pint Stock, 1 pint Milk, Salt, and Pepper. Cut your mushrooma in squares, and boil until tender; before dishing, add a bit of butter, and thicken witli arrowroot. Ox Tail Soup. An Ox Tail, 2 oz. Dripping, 2 oz. Flour, 3 Onions, 1 Carrot, 1 Turnip, Tops of Stalk of Celery, a little Thyme (either dried or fresh), Pepper and Salt, 3 quarts Water. Cut tail in pieces. Slice onions, and cut carrot and turaip into dice. Put dripping in frying-pan, and stir in flour as dripping melts. Then put in vegetables and stir for 5 minutes. Add meat, and fry for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Turn all into pot and simmer 3 hoprs, skimming well. About an hour before serving put in shreds of celery, thyme, pepper, and salt. May be strained and thickened with 1 tablesiDOonful flour. Servo small pieces of tail in the soup, and, if liked, add a little Yorkshire relish at the last. Oyster Soup. (Made from a Cod’s Head lor Stock.) For 1 pint of white stock, put head into saucepan with enough cold water to cover, 1 teaspoon salt, small piece carrot, turnip, onion, parsley, 12 pepperconis, 1 blade mace, and 2 cloves. Boil for 2 houi-s; strain stock; let it stand for 2 hours. Remove all fat, and it is ready for use. Now take 1 gill oyster liquor’, 1 tablespoonful cornflour, a little salt, 1 gill milk, 1 pinch pejrper (cayenne), 1 squeeze lemon juice. Put white stock and oyster liquor over the fire to get hot. Mix jirepper and milk, and stir over the fire till boiling. Add lemon juice, and 12 oysters. Do not let soup boil after oysters are added. Serve with dice of fried bread, handed separately. Palestine Soup. 2 lb. Jerusalem Artichokes, 2 quarts of Milk, 1 oz. of Butter, the yolks of 2 Eggs, and 5 tablespoonfuls of Cream. Pare the artichokes, and boil them in water till pei'fectly soft; rub through a wire sieve; and pulp into"pan with the milk and fresh Irutter, season with white pepper and salt; stir on fire until it boils, and then stew gently till of the consistency of common pea soup. Beat the yolks of the eggs now with cream, put them into the tureen ; pour in the hot soup, and stir till well ijiixed. Serve immediately. Parsnip Soup. Cut 2 small irarsnips in pieces, boil till tender, pass through a sieve, and return to the water in which they were boiled. Make