TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 91 Make sauce with 4 onions sliced and fried in butter. Cook well, add 1 apple, tablespoonful ouriw powtler and stock from sweetbreads made into thick sauce. Eub through sieve. Put mushrooms and sweetbreads at bottom of dish among sauce, then veal and bacon on top. Cover with greased paper, and steam 1 hour. Egrsrs (Baked). 6 Eggs, 1 cupful Chicken, Game, or Veal Gravy, 1 teaspoonful Parsley and Onion chopped very finely, 1 handful Bread Crumbs, Pepper and Salt. Pour enough gravy into baking tin to cover lx)ttom well, and mix with the parsley and c>nion. Set' in oven till it begins to hiss and bubble. Break eggs in so that they don’t crowd one another. Strew crumbs thickly over, also pepper and salt. Return to oven for minutes, then pour over tlie rest of the gravy, which has been made hot. Add more bread crumbs as fine as dust, and bake till eggs are set. Send to table in tin. Esrsr Balls. Mince a little cold meat, season, drop in unbeaten yolk. Stir and form into ball. Drop unbeaten white into buttered cup; drop in ball, and steam in boiling water till white is set. Boiled Egfgfs. Place eggs in pan of boiling water, covered. Put on lid, remove pan from gas, or back a little from fire and leave it 1 or 5 minutes for 1 egg, and a little longer for each additional egg. This is an ex- cellent way to cook eggs for an invalid, as the albumen remains soft, and is very easy of digestion. If they are required quickly, put eggs in boiling water and boil gently minutes. If boiling eggs hard, -put them in boiling ivater instead of cold. It will prevent the yolk from colouring black. Esgfs with Cheese. 2 Eggs, Salt and Pepper, 2 oz. grated Cheeee, i oz. Butter. ' Melt butter in pan, break into it the eggs, add half cheese, salt and pepper. Stir with a whisk over a brisk fire until it commences to thicken, dish on pieces of buttered toast, sprinkle with remainder of cheese, and brown quickly under the gas grill. This is improved if the buttered toast is spread with a very little Bovril, or Leibig. Convent Eg-g;s. 2 hard-boiled Eggs, i pint Milk, 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, 1 Onion, Salt and Pepper. Cut onion in rings and cook 5 minutes in butter with lid on. Add flour and milk gi'adually, and boil 3 minutes. Cut eggs in very thin rings, and put in pan till hot. Carnish with toast. • Egrss (Curried). Bod as many eggs as required, very hard. Cut them in half, or quarters, and lay on flat dish. Slice an apple and small onion, and fry together in butter. Stir in a dessertspoonful of cm-ry powder and 1 gill of stock, and simmer for ten minutes. Pour round the eggs, and serve hot with boiled rice or without. , Eg-g: Cutlet. Cut *mall a hard-boiled egg ;'add a tablespoonful of bread crumbs the same quantity of grated cheese, with a pinch of curry powder salt pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mix the whole with the yolk of a raw egg,’