TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 26 Skate (Dressed). Boil till ready, about ^ hour, a thick out of skate. Remove the flesh from the bones, making it into neat flakes. Have a pie dish buttered; put in it a layer of skate, a layer of white bread crumbs, and a layer of grated cheese; rejaeat till the skate is all used. Make a sauce with milk, butter, and flour. Pour over all, and bake in the oven, browning befoi’e the fire at the last. To Fry Soles. Skin and carefully wash the soles, and cut off the fins, wipe them very dry and let them remain in the cloth until it is time to dress them. Then either flour them well or brush over with egg and cover them with bread-crumbs. Fry in a deep pan with plenty of dripping or lord. When they are a light brown on one side turn them by sticking a fork in the head and supporting the fish Avith a slice. When a thick smoke rises from the loan they are done. Drain carefully, garnish Avith cut lemon and fried parsley, and serA'e with shrimp sauce and plain melted butter. V Sole a la Turque. 1 07, miiicocl Suet or piece of Butter, teaspoonful niiuced Parsley, 2 table- spoonfuls Bread Crumbs, 1 oz. minced Lobster or Shrimps, 1 small Egg to bind the Av.hole, a little Salt and Pepper, a very little grated Lemon Bind. Moisten Avith beaten egg. Have fish skinned. Take off head and tail ; cut doAvn centre as if going to fillet. Slip knife just over fillets on either side (making bag). Wash and dry the fish. Fill centre Avith forcemeat. Close up fillets. Place in dripping tin. Pour round pint stock, and bake about 20 minutes. If you have no stock, use Avater and a little bovril; the fla\'ouring matter from fish makes this very nice gravy. / Soufflo of Cooked Fish. Boil, skin, and rub a 4d haddock' through sieve. Make a batter not too thick Avith h oz. butter, ^ oz. flour, and enough of the stock in Avhich fish Avas boiled, Avith a little milk added. Bring to the hoil. Take pan off fire, add pepper and salt, drop in the yolks of 2 eggs, then add the fish, beating slightly, then the Avhites of 2 eggs Avhipped to stiff froth. Whip till thoroughly mixed, and steam, veiy gently for f of an hour. A little cream added to the mixture before Avhites is an improvement. \ Stewed Fish (1). Fiy about 1 lb. Spanish onions and 1 lb. tomatoes. Add any cooked fried fish, and some stock, tliickened Avith flour, pepper and salt. Heat thoroughly and serve. Take great care in dishing not to hreak tlie fish. Stewed Fish (2). 2 filleted Haddocks, 1 pint Pish Stock, White Pepper, Salt, aud .squeeze of Lemon Juice, 4 oz. ArroAvroot or Cornflour, dessertspoonful chopped Parsley. Rub over fish Avith lemon juice, and put in pan Avith small sprink- ling of salt and pepper. Pour over stock, put on lid and gently simmer (not boil) 15 minutes. Rub doAvu flour Avith stock or milk,