71 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. and th© eggs well beaten. Mix the whole well with the bread, and fry in fritters about J inch thick and 3 inches broad. Tomato Fritters. Take tomatoes as small as possible. Dip in boiling water, and remove skin. Then dip in batter made from \ lb. flour, tablespoonful salad oil, and gill of wai’m water, whites of 2 eggs, whipped to stiff froth. Fry in hot oil. Garnish with a little parsley, and serve hot. Macaroni (Baked) and Tomatoes. Put ^ lb. macaroni in boiling water and boil it 20 minutes. Strain, and put it in a baking tin with pepper and salt to taste. Add the contents of a 2 lb. tin of tomatoes. Bake with a small piece of butter on top for ^ hour. Macaroni, Cheese, and Bread. i lb. Masaroui, 2 oz. Cheese, 3 oz. Bread Crumbs, a teacupful of Milk, Salt to tast«. Put the macaroni into boiling water, and boil gently 1 hour; drain, and put half into a pie-dish; next, sprinkle over it half the bread crumbs, then half the grated cheese; use the remaining ingred- ients in the same way. Pour over the whole the milk in which the salt has been dissolved, and blown in a quick oven about 20 minutes. Serve with potatoes and white sauoe. Macaroni with Cheese. Butter pudding dish. Put in layer of cooked macaroni and of white sauce alternately, ending with cheese. Dust over broad ciaimbs, dot with bits of butter, and bake 15 minutes in quick oven. May be baked in same way without cheese, or with a cup of milk and 2 eggs. Mushrooms Stewed in Milk. 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Flour, 4 pint Milk, \ lb. Mushrooms, Peijper, Sait, and Cayenne, a few drops Lemon Juice. Melt butter in pan, stir in flour, add milk, and other ingredients. Skin and remove stems from mushrooms, drop into sauce, and simmer slowly 15 or 20 minutes. Mushroom Pudding;. 1 lb. Mushrooms, i lb. Flour, 2 oz. Bread Crumbs, 3 oz. Butter, Salt, and Pepper. Mix a little salt with flour and bread cnmibs, add butter, with enough water to moisten, roll out and line a greased pudding basin w'ith it. Peel the mushrooms, pile in the centre with a little salt and pepper, 1 oz. butter and | pint Avater. Put on a lid of pastry, cover with greased paper, and steam IJ hours. A little onion or to- mato may be added. Mushrooms and Tomato Toast. 2 Tomatoes, Toast and Butter, 4 lb. Mushrooms, Salt and Pepper. Stamp some bread into rounds, toast and butter it, slice tomatoes, skin mushrooms. Fry mushrooms and tomatoes with a little season- ing in the butter. Put a slice of tomato on each round of bread, and. a mushroom on top. Heat through in oven, and seiwe. Baked Bread Omelet. 6 oz. Bread (stale) without crust, 5 Eggs, 4 oz. Parsley, 4 oz. Lemon Thyme. Cover bread with boiling water, soak 1 hour, then mash well with fork, adding chopped parsley and thyme, and salt and pepper. Beat