120 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. grapes are used instead of suet; they make the mince meat more luscious and yet more digestible than if the suet is only cooked about 20 minutes or ^ hour when the pies are baking. If wanted to be eaten cold, they are also much nicer without the suet. (This, of course, does not apply to previous recipe.) Mince Meat (3), U lb. Suet, 2 lb. Eaisins, 2 lb. Currants, 2 lb. chopped Apples, 1 lb. Sugar (dark), i lb. mixed Peel, i lb. Almonds (chopped fine), rind of a Lemon, mixed Spice to taste. Notting^ham Pudding;'. Cut some thin slices bread and butter. Put some raspberry jam between each slice. Place in baking tin. Put the juice of 2 lemons over it, and when about hot pour a custard over. When half baked, shake a thick coating castor sugar over, and finish baking. Nuns’ Pudding'. 2 oz. Cornflour, 1 oz. Castor Sugar, 3 gills Milk, Lemon Juice and Eind, 2 Eggs, a few Eatafias, tablespoonful of Easpberry Jam. Put 2 gills milk in saucepan, and make it hot; mix 2 oz. corn- flour with the other gill of milk; add cornflour to hot milk; stir till it thickens. Wlien it comes to boiling jDoint, simmer 5 minutes. Draw to side, and cool. Add sugar, lemon rind, and juice. Separate whites and yolks of eggs, and stir yolks in cornflour mixture. Take pudding dish and put jam in the bottom, then a layer of biscuits, then the mixture. Whisk the whites, and place on the top with castor sugar. Brown slightly in oven, and decorate with angelica and cherries. Omnibus Pudding. i lb. Flour, { lb. Suet, i teaspoonful Salt, 2 oz. Sugar, \ lb. Sultanas, 2 oz. Treacle. Mix all with sufficient milk to make rather thin batter, about ^ pint. Steam 2^ hours. Orange Pudding. Peel and cut 5 oranges into slices; take out all the seeds, and pour over them | lb. sugar. Make a paste with 1 tablespoonful of cornflour or arrowroot and a little cold milk. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs well, and stir them with the cornflour paste into a pint of boiling milk. Simmer till it thickens, then pour over the fruit. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with a tablespoonful of sugar, spread over the top of the pudding, and harden for a few minutes in the oven. Overtown Pudding. i lb. crumbled Biscuit or Bread Crumbs, 1 tablespoouful Castor Sugar, 2 Eggs, rather more than i gill Milk, and teaspoonful Vanilla. Mix dry ingredients, add well-beaten eggs, milk, and vanilla. Cover baking tin with short crust; decorate edges with leaves or stars; fill centre with a thin layer of jam, then cover with custard and bake. Rich Pancakes (1). 6 oz. Flour, 4 Eggs, tiny pinch Salt, Vanilla Essence. Break the eggs separately into the flour, and when these are well mixed add as much milk and cream as makes very thin smooth batter Add 8 drops vanilla essence. Put a nut of butter in omelet pan, and when hot drop in about 2 tablespoonfuls of mixture. Whenever it