TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 1 tencupfiil mashetl potatoes, 1 teaoupful boil«l nee, a little Woicestei sauce, A teasiioonful vinegar, and i m. melted butter Add eggs, an season rather highly with salt and pepper. Pour into buttered dish. Sprinkle a few bread-crimilis over, dot butter over and bake. ScramblecJ Egg's and Tomatoes. Free from pips a large tomato, mince finely with 2 slices Spanish onion, add plentv butter and pepper and salt to taste. Stir on the fire till onion is quite cooked, but not coloured, then throw in 4 beaten eggs, and keep stirring till eggs are nearly set. Servo at once v.Tthin a circle of fried liread sippets. When cooking flain scrambled eggs, a feiv drops of lemon juice is an improvement. Eggs (Scotch). i 11). sausage talcen out of skin. Put in liowl with ^ lb. bread crumbs. Chop parsley very fine; add seasoning if needwl. Wet mixture with switched egg. Boil 4 eggs a quarter of an hour; take off shells. Divide mixture in four, and cover each egg with it. Then egg and bread-crumb, and fry a light brown. Halve lengthwise. Garnish with parsley, and serve with tomato sauce. Eggs (Sunshiny). 1 oz. Butter, 3 Eggs, Pepper and Salt to taste, 3 tablespoon fills of Tomato Sauce. Molt a little butter in pan, spi'inkle salt over, break as many eggs as required, and fry these for about two minutes, taking care that they do not spread too much. Pub them on a hot dish, sprinkle well with pepper, aud pour some thick tomato sauce over. Swiss Eggs. Spread 2 or. butter on bottom of a dish, and lay on it 6 thin slices f.f Gniy^ire cheese. Break 0 eggs on. this, keeping the yolks whole Spi-inkie ove rpepper and salt. Mix a teaspoonful chopped parsley and 2 oz. grated Giuiy^re cheese, and strew over. Bake in a very quick oven 10 or 12 minutes. Egg Toast (Curried). 3 Eggs, 1 small Onion, 1 teaspoouful Curry Powder, i pint Milk, Salt to taste. Cut up the onion, and fry it in a little butter till bix)wn. Add the milk, salt, and curry powder, stirring it well. Beat up the eggs and add them, and cook for 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour on thick slices of hot buttered toast, and serve very hot. Eggs and Tomatoes. Take fried croutes of bread, the size of tomato. Slice 2 tomatoes, and bake for a few minutes, with a little salt and pepper over them. Poach carefully the number of eggs you require. On each croute put a slice of tomato, then an egg ; sprinlde a little fine chopped pars- ley over each, and serve very hot, with a thin tomato sauce round. Findon and Cheese Savoury. 1 Findon Haddock (raw), 2 oz. grated Cheese, 1 tablespoonful Cream, a little Mustard, and a pinch of Cayenne. Scrape the meat from the bone, and mix it with the other in- gredients. Cook this for a minute or two', then add a beat-up egg, and boil the mixture for another minute or so. Serve on hot but- tered toast.. Crabs or kippers may be done in this way.