TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. ini of butter. Mix well, nncl then acid butter-milk to make a soft dough. Car® must be taken to mix it thoroughly, until all the flour is ab- sorbed, and it is firm enough to handle without working it after it is on the bake-board. Sprinkle Hour on board, then put out ludf tlie dough; sprinkle a little Hour on the top, then gently work with the fingers into a round, half inch tlcick. Cut in four, and fire on a moderately heated girdle. The above mixture makes 8 scones, and they are delicious if the above rules are observed. The secret of hav- ing nice scones is not to touch the dough after it is on the board, ex- cept to work it out as directed. By putting 1 teacupful of oatmeal to 3 teacupfuls of flour, with the same mixture as for white scones, you have a nice short scone. Potato Scones (1). Mash boiled potatoes till cpiito smooth, adding a little salt. Then knead out with flour or. barley meal to thickness required. Toast on girdle, pricking tliem with fork to prevent blistering. Eaten with butter, they are even superior to crumpets, and very nutritious. Potato Scones (2). Pare and lioil potatoes, witli a little salt; mash them while hot, adding a handfid oatmeal; or, better still, ])ut them tlirougli a potato squeezer, adding a little meal each time you fill the squeezer. Knead out with self-raising flour to tluckness required. Toast on girdle at once, pricking them with fork to prevent blistering. vSecret of light- ness, is in having scones baked while potatoes are hot. Spiced Scones. 2 teacupfuls Flour, 1 teaspoon 13i-carbouato of Soda, 1 do. Cream of Tartar, 1 do. Salt, 1 do. ground Ginger, 1 do. ground Cinnamon, 1 dessertspoon Sugar, piece of Butter sizo of walnut, 1 taldcspoou Treacle, and a little Butte r-millc. Mix dry ingredients. Heat butter and treacle and proceed as in white scones. Tea Scones. i lb. Flour, 1 tablesixionful Sultanas, 1 dessertspoonful Sugar, 1 do. Butter, 1 do. Eoyol Baking Powder, a pinch of Salt. Mix with sweet Milk. Mix flour, sugar, powder, and salt; then rub in butter; add milk and raisins. Make dough rather soft, and bake in hot oven 10 minutes. ^ Treacle Scones. Same mixture as for white scones, only add double quantities of soda and cream of tartar, and put in 2 tablespoon fuls of treacle instead of syrup. Work out in the usual way. Stale Bread. When immersed in cold water for a moment or two, and re-baked for about 1 hour, it is in every respect equal to newly-baked bread; or wrap in cloth and steam 10 or 15 minutes in steamer. Then dry in oven. Rolls or biscuits may have top crust wet with a little melted butter. Then brown a minute after steaming. Sugar Cakes for Afternoon Tea. Cream 4 oz. of butter, add 2 oz. of sugar (beating well), 4 oz. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 tablespoonful of milk, and the yolk of an egg beaten up. Turn out on a floured board, roll out and cut into any fancied shape. Bake 5 minutes in sharp oven.