230 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. the paste to dry, and then brush off. If the stain has not ontirelv disappeared repeat the process. ^ _ All kinds of cai-pets quickly cleaned if rubbed over with a flannel with a good lather of Sunlight soap and then rinsed with ammonia and water, the water being changed frequently. Candle-grease spots can be removed either by placing blotting paper on spdt and holding a hot iron over it, or, if the mark ia but a small one, by putting a match to it as close as possible, without burning the material. ® Di’y flour lubbed on a carpet and allowed toi remain on for some hours will absorb grease and oil, if any has been spilt by accident, or make a paste, with boiling water, of equal parts of fuller’s earth and magnesia, and while hot lay this over the spots. Let it remain until dry, then brush off, and you will find that the grease will have dis- appeared. To remove stains of grease, (to., from clothing, pour 1 pint boiling water over 50 laurel leaves. Cover and stand for 3 days. Strain and bottle (taking care to label bottle “Poison.”) Rub well into stained parts. This is a capital plan. Coal-tar is removed with butter. An excellent paste for removing grease or soiled spota is made of 1 dessertspoonful pearline and a cup of hot water. Rub it to- gether well, and let it boil for a few minutes. Pour it into a small jar, and keep it at hand for emergencies. Unequalled for cleaning greasy coat collars, &o. To remove grease spots ,or paint stains from cotton or woollen goods, sponge with turpentine. If the stain is fresh it will disappear at once; if it is of long standing, saturate the part, and let it remain for several hours, then rub off the paint. To remove paint from a wooden surface, soak with spirits of turpentine, and rub off with pumice stone. Carbonate of soda will generally remove the most obstinate mud- stains. Rub with cloth or flannel, then press well on wrong side with iron. To prevent cloth being spotted by rain, wipe away the wot from nap of cloth, as soon as possible, using sillc handkei’chief or soft brush or sponge.' Will be found free from spots and smooth. To remove coffee stains from delicate material brush the spot with pure glycerine, rinse in lukewann water, and press on the wrong side. Hot tea and coffee stains removed by soaking in cold water. Wring, spread out, and pour a few drops, of glycerine on. Stand several hours, then wash with cold water and soap. For cocoa and chocolate stains wash with soap in tepid water. Tea, coffee, chocolate, and fruit stains in table-cloth may be com- pletely removed, if done at once. Place stain tightly over large basin and pour boiling water over the mark till it has gone. When nearly dry, press with an iron, and no trace of accident wiU remain. A lump of sugar put in the tea-pot wiU prevent tea staining da- mask, however fine, over which it may be spilled. To remove rust stains, rub with dry bran before wetting, or lay