TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Salmon Sandwiches. Cut slices of salmon and cucumber, amd put them between bi^d and butter; then roll them up in a lettuce leaf soaked m vinegar for 1 hour j or a salad dressiug. Salt Cod with Egg Sauce. 1 lb. Salt Cod, soaked, boiled, cooled, and cbopp^ fine; 1 t^cupful 1 tablespoonful Cornflour, 2 beaten Eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls Buttei, a little chopped Parsley, half as much mashed Potatoes as fish. Pepper to ^te. Heat the milk, thicken with cornflour, then add potatoes, rubbed very fine; next the butter, then Hie eggs and parsley, and lastly the fish. Stir and toss till smoking hot, then pour into deep dish. Salt Fish and Sauce. Soak fish over night, or at least for 5 hours in tepid Avatei, skin side up. Scrape skin, .and lay skin side up (to catch the scum which settles) in cold Avater. ' When ready, take off skin nicely, pour egg sauce over, and over that grate the yolk of an egg. Sardine Sandwiches. Wipe and bone the sardines; squeeze a lemon over them ; place them inside the bifead and butter with a layer of cress. Sardine Savoury. i lb. Flour, 2 oz. Butter, 1 yolk Egg, Salt, a lifEle cold Water, 1 tm Sardines, 1 oz. Parmesan Cheese, 1 oz. Butter, Cayenne, White of Egg. Eub 2 oz. butter into the flour; add salt and yolk of egg, mixed with a few drops of water, and knead into a firm paste; roll out as thinly as possible, and cut into oblong pieces. Cut the tails off the sardines and ivipe off the skin ; melt 1 oz. butter, and dip each sar- dine into it; roll in the crumbled cheese, and then Avrap up neatly in the paste, sealing the ends Avith Avhit© of egg. Fry gently a golden broAvn in bath of fat; drain, and dish up neatly on folded sendette. Sprinkle over a little cheese and cayenne, and serve hot. Fish Sausages. 1 teacupful Cooked White Fish, 1 do. Cooked Lobster or Shrimps, 1 do. Bread Crumbs, 1 dessertspoonful Parsley, ^ do, Thyme, C Mushrooms, 1 raAv Egg and 1 Yolk, 1 teaspoonful Salt, and ^ teaspoonful Pepper. Pound fish. Add ciaimbs and seasoning and egg. Make mixture into sausages with floured hands, egg, bread-crumb, and fry. Shape O'? Cold Fish and Potatoes, or Fish Cakes. Mash potatoes with two forks, or put through sieve. Mix equal quantities of potatoes and fish. See that there are no bones in fish. For lb. of fish and potatoes add 1 oz. dripping, saltspoon curry poAvder, J saltspoon mustard, a little salt, and 1 egg. Butter baking tin, and Avork it into the shape of a fish with twoi knivesi dipped in milk, putting parsley in for eyes. Bake in quick oven. Garnish with sliced carrot and cut lemon, if liked. Mixture may be formed into cakes, and fried in pan ; or into balls, egged and bread-crumbed, and fried in boiling fat. Plainer fish cakes may be made with equal quantities of potatoes and fish, with pepper and salt; slightly flour them and fry till they are a nice brown colour.