113 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. spoonfuls sugar. Stir till nearly cold ; add gelatine and pour into wetted mould. Serve with thin slices of pine-apple round. Pink Cream. Boil ‘1 ox. ground rice in 1 quart milk. Add 2 ox. butter, 2 ox. sugar, and 10 drops essence vanilla. Stir for 20 minutes after it boils, till it becomes a smooth custard. Colour it to a pink with cochineal. Spread over a glass dish some strawberry jam, and when the custanl is cool pour it over tlie jam and set aside to cool. If desired, scatter dessicated ooooa-nut over the top. Preserved Peaches and Apricots. Take a tin of pre.served fruit and strain off liq\iid. Dissolve enough gelatine (by boiling gelatine in a little sweetened water) to make a fairly firm jelly when cold. Add a few drops of cochineal. Put rather more than 2 oz. of this to a quart of liquid from the tin, Pour into mould, and drop peaches in, and either turn out whole or place in spoonfids in glass dish with a little whipped cream. Prune Shape. i lb. Prunes, J pint Water, J oz. Gelatine, Sugar to taste. Stew prunes in the water till tender, then tahe them and remove the stones, and chop them small. Dissolve gelatine in the juice, and add sugar, and then the prunes. Pour all into a wetted mould to cool. Half a lemon added is an inqu'ovement. The stones may be broken and the kernels added. Very nice with whipped cream in centre. Raspberry Cream. 1 pint of Cream, J pint of Milk, i pint of Syrup, 1 oz. Isinglass di.ssolved in the milk, and made hot; a few drops of Colonriug. Mix cream and syrup, and whisk well. Tlieu add the dissolved isinglass quickly, whisk again, and pour into mould. Strawberry and pine-apple cream made the same way, but without the colouring. I Rhubarb Meringfue. Cut 1 lb. of pink rliubarb into inch lengths, and stew it with 4 oz. of sugar till tender; strain the juice into a basin, and rub the fruit through a wire sieve. Reduce the juice to a gill, mix it with fruit puree, add the yolks of 4 eggs, and the grated peel of a lemon. Pour the mixture into a fireproof dish and bake it ^ hour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix them with 4 oz. of sugar, spread them over the pudding, dust with pounded sugar, and retxirn it to the oven for 10 minutes to set the meringue. A Gateau of Rice. 1 quart Milk, i pint Cream, 4 oz. Rice, 2 oz. Sugar, Lemon Peel, Jam or Stowed Fruit. Boil rice in milk till tender and thick, and add sugar and grated lemon rind. Take a glass dish and put a round pot in the centre, pile the rice round it, and let it stand till cold and firm. Carefully remove the pot, and fill up hole with jam or fruit. Whip the cream, and pile on the top. Royal Cream. 1 quart Milk, 3 Eggs, 8 tablespoonfule Sugar, 1 6d packet Nelson’s Gelatine, Vanilla to flavour. Soak gelatine in the milk ^ hour. Beat yolks of eggs with the