242 TRIED FAYOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. USEFUL TO HEiVIEIVIBER Ifl COOKING. A Useful Hint. Most people understand that the placing of a marble in a kettle prevents furring, but very few seem to know that a large clean marble boiled in milk, porridge, custards, sauces, or stews will automatically do the stirring, as the liquid cooks. Any chance of burning will be prevented, and thus the fatigue of constantly stirring, and the cook’s time, can be saved, as by tliis means the cook can be attending to several things at once, instead of having tO' give her whole time and attention to one. A little cornflour added to the salt in the salt-cellar will prevent it hardening. ^ teaspoonful of cornflour to 2 tablespoonfuls of salt will be enough. A pinch of salt added to mustard prevents it souring. If soup, gravy, or vegetable is too salt, stir a little coarse sugar in, and the dish becomes palatable again. A little cedar powder sprinkled on the top of the kitchen stove, while cooking is going on, will prevent the smell of food spreading to other parts of the house. If, when using lemon for flavouring, you only need half of one, put the other half on a plate and cover with a glass tumbler. This excludes the air, and prevents it from dicing up or getting mouldy. To keep, lemons fresh and juicy keep in a cool place in a bowl of cold water. Leave plenty room for lemons to float easily in the bowl. When boiling rice, a few drops of lemon-juice or vinegar added to the water makes rice beautifully white and helps to separate grains. Nutmegs may be tested by pricking with a pin, and if they are good the oil will instantly spread around the puncture. In using cloves for pickles or preserves, the blossom end should be removed, as- it darkens the liquid. It will spoil the colour of red cabbage. When plates and dishes have to be warmed on oven top or in oven, if a newspaper is put underneath, it will break the heat and prevent plates from cracking. Dried orange peel will revive a low fire at once, placed among coals. Useful for sick-room—^no noise and pleasant perfume. Keep potato peelings, for, after being dried in the oven, they are very useful for lighting fires. They may be used instead of wood, and will make a fire bum up very quickly. Never throw away the wooden slcewers which come with joints from the butcher, but have them washed and kept in a kitchen drawer. They are useful in cleaning paint, to help the flannel into the niches and corners. When plates or dishes are burnt after baking, they can be easily cleaned by rubbing with a damp cloth dipped in salt. For burnt enamel pans, take a piece fine emery, damp it, and rub pan well. It does not need hard rubbing, as marks come out easily. Einse pan well in cold water. Pflour sprinkled on burning oil will at once extinguish it. When a fire is at its lowest, place a cork under the hot cinders, put a match to it, and it will immediately revive it.