TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOR. u put the milk or cream. Season with pepper and salt to taste, and a little nutmeg if liked, and boil up. The meat may be either ruljbed through the sieve, or chopped up and put in the soup. Red Pottage. J lb. ITiiricot Beans, 1 teacupful of Tomatoes, 1 Beetroot, 1 oz. Butter, 2 Onions, a piece of Celery or Parsnip, 2 quarts of Water. Soak beans in cold water for 24 hours, then put them on to lx)il with the 2 quarts of water, the buttei’, and a small pinch of carbonate of soda. Wlien the soup comes to the boil, add tomatoes, celei*jf or parsnip, and onions, all cut .in small pieces, and beetroot peeled and cut in thin slices. Allow all to boil for 2J hours. Put all through a wire sieve, add pepper and salt to taste. Re-heat and serve. Rice Milk Soup. 3 oz. Rice, 3 pints Milk, 1 teaspoonful Sugar, ^ teaspoonful Salt. Pour boiling water on washed rice, then linse in plenty of cold water, and drain. Put on with the teacup water and the milk. Sim- mer slowly with lid on 1 hour, then add sugar and salt. Most valuable in summer as a corrective, Avhen fresh fmits and vegetables are being used. Rice Soup. 2 quarts boiling Water, a piece Carrot and Turnip and Celery, 2 lb. Veal, or a Fowl. Boil 1 hou)’, strain, then add 2 good onions or the white part of 6 leeks, cut in small pieces, and ^ lb. rtce. Boil | hour, then add tea- cupful cream or breakfastcup milk, and some fresh chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Boil ^ hour—2 hours altogether. Singer’s Soup. Wash well J lb. best pearl sago, stew slowly till quite tender and veiy thick, in 1 quart Avater. Then mix gradually Avith it a pint of boiling cream or milk, and the yolks of 4 fresh eggs. Noav add care- fully 2 quarts strO'Ug A'eal or beef stock, which has been kept boiling for the purpose. Add this A\4ien just off the boil, not to curdle eggs, and serve immediately. Stock for Soup. 4 lb. Sbiu of Beef, or 2 lb. Knuckle of Veal, or 2 lb. Beef; 4 young Carrots or 2 old ones; 1 Tuinip, 1 Ojiiou, 1 Leek, i head of Celery, and Salt. Take the bone out of the meat, and cut off skin and fat. Chop the bone, and take out the marroAV. Place aside the fat and marroAv for clarifying dripping, as they Avould make stock too greasy. Place meat (cut up small) and bone in cold Avater, in proportion 1 pint to 1 lb., and 1 jDint over, and add ^ teaspoon salt to assist scum to rise. Boil quickly, and skim well. Add the Avell Avashed vegetables ; carrots cut lengtliAvise in 3 strips, and turnip and onion out and quartered. Simmer for 5 hours. Add Avith the vegetables a little cold Avater to assist scum to rise, and skim occasionally. When ready, put a cloth over a basin, and a hair sieve on the; cloth, and strain. Place in a cool place to jelly. When Avanted, remove fat Avith a spoon; dip a clean cloth in hot Avater, and Avipe the top, to take off eveiy particle of fat; diy the top then with a cloth. The meat and bone may be used for second stock, Avith fresh vegetables.