TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY TOOK. 16l Tunbridge Cakes. Hub 6 oz. butter quite fine in 1 lb. flour. Then mix 6 oz. sugar, beat 2 eggs and make with above into a paste. Roll it out very thin and cut into small rounds. Prick with a fork and cover with carra- ways, or brush with white of egg, and dust white sugar over. Victoria Buns. 1 Egg and its weight in Flour, 2 oz. pounded Loaf Sugar, li oz. Ground Eice, 2 oz. Butter, li oz. Currants, a few thin slices of Peel. Whisk the egg, stir in the sugar, and beat well. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the ground rice, currants, and peel j and after add- ing the egg sitir in a little flour j but do not make these very stiff Bake in small patty tins for about ^ hour. CAKES. Have all in readiness b^efore proceeding, tins i ittered, flouf sifted, &c. If raisins and currants are oiled m flour before they are used in cakes, and then added at the last, they will not sink to the bottom. Almond Cake. 6 Eggs, their weight in Castor Sugar and Butter, anti the weight of 3 Eggfe in Flour and Ground Almonds, Essence of Alinoudr to taste. Cream butter, add sugar, then the eggs well whisked together. Next the almonds, flour, and essence Pour into two well-greased 2 lb. tins, and bake in a moderately quick oven. Almond Icin^. 6 oz. Icing Sugar, J lb. crushed Almonds, a few drops Almond Essencei and alxiut 1 white of Egg. Mix well with spoon. Turn out on board and work perfectly smooth, using a little sugar instead of flour to prevent sticking. Almond Paste. 1 lb. Ground Almonds, 1 lb. Castor Sugar, 1 tablespqonfi I Orange Flower Water, 8 or 9 drops Essence Almonds, 2 Eggs, and an < xtra White. Mix almonds and sugar, add the water and essence, then beat the eggs and knead them into the almonds, spread on top of cake, and smooth with a clean knife. Almond Dust. This is made by pounding any quantity of blanched sweet almonds, which have been thoroughly browned in a moderate oven; Use for garnishing cakes and sweet dishes. Bachelor Cake. i4 lb. Flour, 6 oz. Butter or Lard, J lb 'ugar, 4 lb. Eaisius (stoned), 1 lb. Currants, 1 lb. Almonds, 2 oz. Carra ,\ Seerls, 14 oz Orange Peel, 2 oz. Citron Peel, 2 oz. Cinnamon, 2 oz. .Allspice. ■ oz Ginger, 2 teaspoonfuls Carbonate of So<la, 1 teaspoonful Salt, mis wiib Butter-milk. Rub flour and butter together, slice almon.ls Cut peel thin, wash currants thoroughly, and dry them. Then mix all dry ingTed- ients together. Mix all with bvftter-milk, but not too soft. Beat tor 20 minutes; put into greased tin and bake in moderate oven fur hours. F