47 TRIED FA\^OURITES COOKERY BOOK. A Curry of Cold Meat. 1 lb cold Meat, 1 pint Stock c.r Water, 1 tablenpoonl'ul Flour, 1 dessert- spoonl'ul Cuiry Powder, I small sour Apple or green Goosebernes or Jthiil)tu’I>, 1 siiuill Onion (scaldod), 2 oz. Diipping, Salt. . Slice and mince tlio onion Hnely, and fry it in the- liot dripping until quite brown. Mince tlie apple, and fry it also. Then mix the curry powder and flour smooth with the stock or water, using an iion spoon ; pour it into' a pan and stir until it boils, adding salt to taste. Lay the meat in, and let it just heat through. Any fresh meat, tripe, fish, rice, macaroni, and haricot beans can be curried for a ciiange. Durham Cutlets. li oz. Butter, IJ, oz. Flour, i pint Stock on Gravy, 6 oz. cold Minced Meat, about 3 oz. Bread Crumbs, or preferably Ma.shed Potatoes, 1 Egg, about 3 oz. Bread Crumbs for outside of cutlets. Melt butter, and add hour, then stock. Stir till you have a smooth, thick sauce; allowing this to cook 2 or 3 minutes. Add seasoning, salt, and pepper to taste. Add meat and potatoes, or bread, which is all the better for having been soaked in gravy. Mix all together. Turn mixture oul ooi a dinner plate, spreading about A- inch tliick. Set it aside to cool. When it is hard, divide into 8 or 12 jinrts. Take eacli piece on point of a knife, and, by pulling round one end, shape it like a cutlet (do this on. a floured board). Bnisli cutlets ui'th tlie eg'g, well beaten, and roll tlicQn in bread crumlis. Stick ■■'i piece of macaroni in one end to represent bone. Fry in fat to lirown, and heat (they do not need cooking). Dutch Roll. l.i lb. Mince, 2 cups Bread Crumbs, 1 good-sized Onion, Pepper and Salt, 2 Eggs, 1 oz. Dripping, 2 cupfuls boiling Water. Chop and fiy the onion ; while it is frying, grate the bread and l)ut it and the mince into a basin. Add the onion ; ]>epper and salt to taste. Beat the eggs, and add to the other ingredients (keeping back about a tablespoonful to brush the outside of the roll). Mix all well together; flour the liands, and mould into a loaf or roll. Brush over’ witli the remainder of tlie eggs. Have some dripping pretty hot. put in the roll, and brown all over. Then pour off the superfluous fat: add the boiling water, and steiv for 2 hours. A little lemon juice or a teaspoonful of Yoik.sliire relish added to the roll is an iinpiove- ment. Galantine. 1 lb. Beef minced, 1 lb. Ham minced, 2 Eggs, i lb. Bread Crumbs, grated, rind of Lemon and juice. Salt, Pepper, Nutmeg grated. Put firmly into a. plain mould, cover with cloth, and steam for 3 houi-s. Turn out when cold. A nice supper dish, and also makes nice sandwiches. Gateau of Meat. 1 lb. cold Meat of any kind, 4 lb. Suet, i lb. Bread Crumbs, ^ tablespoonful Onion. 1 tablespoonful Parsley, i teaspoonful Pepper, -J- teaspoonful drie.r Herbs, a very little Nutmeg and Salt. ' Mix all together, and steam in pan of boiling water 2 hours. German Sausag'e. 1 lb. Minced Steak, 4 lb. Pork Sausages, 1 teacupful grated Bread, 1 tea- siMonful Salt, J teaspoonftil Pepper, and 1 Egg. Skin the sausages, and put into a bowl with the mince, bread czimnbs, salt, and pepper, B-evat well the egg, and add to the mixture,