TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 18 Canelle of Fish. ] breakfastcupful Bread Crumbs, 1 do. Cooked Fish, a little minced Parsley, Pepper and Salt. Beat 3 eggs; add ^ teacupful of milk ; mix all, and steam in a buttered mould 1 hour; pour some nice Avhite sauce over. Chartreuse of Fish. Wet mould. Put in a little aspic jellj-. Lay in any sort of cooked fish you like, and some hai’d-boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley. Let this set, and add some a-spic. Make a sauce with 1 tablespoonful salad,oil, 1 yolk egg, 1 table.spoonful vinegar, 1 teaspoonful taiTagon vinegar, 1 teaspoonful Chili vinegar, salt and pepper. Mix witli some more fish, eggs, aspic, etc., till mould is full. Set to cool. Turn out, and decorate with hard-boiled eggs and parsley. Boiled Cod or Haddock. 3 lbs. Fish. Put fish in boiling Avater (salted). Boil 1 minute, then pour in :i cupful cold water gently to reduce heat, and allow fish to cook 15 or 20 minutes, according to thickness of fisli. Drain immediately. Cod Fish Cutlets. Cut thin slices near the tail! Wash and drj'^ 1 hour before cook- ing. Then add fine bread crumbs, salt, pcvpper, a little grated nut- meg, about a teaspoonful chopped parsley and rather less scalded chopped onion. (This last item makes the dish.) Moisten all with a little beaten egg nnd milk mixed. Spread on both sides of fish, having first floured it a little; a few drops of anchovy essence will improve the paste. Then egg and bread-cnimb and fry in boiling fat. Serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce. The latter is excellent with a good melted butter foundation nicely flavoured Avith essence of shrimps. Cod-Roe for Breakfast. Procure a nice fi'esh cod-roe; put a thin cloth ro\ind it to pre- vent bursting. Place it in a fish pan Avith boiling w^ater; add a little salt, alloAving it to boil sloAvly for ^ hour. Dish it, keeping the cloth on till nearly cold ; Avhen quite cold, skin it, and cut into slices about half-an-inch -thicl^; dust each piece with flour, and fry in boiling fat until crisp. Fish Cream. 4 oz. scraped Fish, 1 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Bread Crumbs, 1 gill Milk and 1 gill Cream, 2 Eggs, 1 squeeze Lemon Juice, Cayenne Pepper and Salt. Put butter Avith bread crumbs and fish in basin. Pour hot milk over and beat Avith fork till butter is melted ; season. Add cream- to beaten eggs, and mix with fish. Steam -J- hour. Cover Avith greased paper. Serve with white sauce. on, lb. fresh fish pounded in mortar or bowl, add 2 tablespoonfuls milk or fish stock, and pass through wire sieve. Beat 2 tablespoon- fuls cream and 1 egg together, add fish, pepper and salt, and steam in buttered basin 20 minutes. Serve Avith parsley sauce. Fish Croquettes. 2 oz. Butter, 11 oz. Flour, 4 teaspoonful Salt, 1 teaspoouful Pepper, 4 gill Milk, 4 gill Cream, 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley, grated rind of 4 Lemon, 4 doz. Oysters, 14 lb. Cod Fish, 1 or 2 Eggs, and 4 lb. seasoned Bread Crumbs. Boil fish till tender. Remove skin and bones, and break in small