198 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. JAMS & JELLIES. Stir jam ivith wooden spoon. Do not mistake the froth that rises during the earlier fart of the operation for scum. The real scum rises when the jam boils, and is very thick, but to skim the jam from the first is unnecessary and wasteful. Let jam boil rapidly—not merely simmer. Store all jam in a cool, dry place; as free from draught, and of as even a temperature as possible. Damp may turn it mouldy, heat make it ferment. Apple Jam. (Greening Apples best, as they do not fall.) To every lb. of Fruit, weighed after being pared, cored, and sliced, allow J lb. of Preserving Sugar, the grated Rind of a Lemon, the Juice of i Lemon. Peel the apples, core and slice them vei-y thin, and be particular that they are all the same sort. Put thein into a jar, stand this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the apples stew until tender. Put the apples into a preserving pan, add the sugar, with the grated rind and lemon juice, simmer over the fire for ^ Imur, reckojing from the time the jam begins to boil well all over. Remove the scum as it rises, and when the jam is done put it into pots for use, tie it down to keep the air from it; this jam will Iceep good a long time. Apple Jam that will keep for Years. Weigh equal quantities of brown sugar and good sour apples; pare, core, and chop them fine; make a good clear syrup of the sugai'. Add the apples, the juice and grated rind of 3 lemons, and a few pieces of white ginger. Boil it till the apple looks clear and yellOw; this resembles foreign sweetmeats. On no account omit the ginger. Apple Jelly. (An American Recipe.) Take 7 lb. of apples^—the hard green ones with red cheeks are thO best—wash them, but neither peel nor core them. Cut tliem up rough- ly and remove the tops and tails. Put the apples into a preserving pan with a little more than sufficient water to float them. Boil steadily for 1. hour. Tliey should stir quite easily, so if they get too' stodgy add a little more water. Let it drip through a jelly-bag all night. In the morning add 1 lb. of white sugar tO' each pint of juice, and a little essence of lemon. Boil for | hour, stirring and skimming fre- quently with a wooden, spoon. Do not be alanned if it is not quite stiff when put away; it will soon stiffen in a cool cupboard. Best made in October. The Americans' make it of wild crab apples, and the bright red of their skins makes the jelly a most beautiful colour. Black currants and orreen gooseben’ies treated in the same way make excellent jelly. Apricot Jam (Imitation). 3 lb. Apples (Scotch Cocllins), 3 lb. Plums (Victoria), 3 lb. Pears (largo table), 1 oz. whole Ginger. Paz’e, core, and cut in pieces the apples and pears; stone, skin, and halve the plums. Make a syrup, put the fruit in and boil till tender, keeping it as whole as possible. Take out the ginger before lifting the jam.