89 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. with sufficient milk or oretuu; beat up whites, then add very lightly. Bake in oven for half-an-hour. Cheese Pudding (2). 4 oz. Cheese, 1 teacupful Milk, 1 dossertspoouful Elour, 1 Egg, Pepper, Salt, and a tiny pinch of Carbonate of Soda. , i • ± -i. Put the milk into ,a pan, and grate or slice the cheese into it, stirring in the flour, pepper, salt, and carbonate of soda. Bring to the boil, and, when cpiite smooth, poiu' all into a pudding dish, add- ing the eETs.’ (yolk and white beaten uji separately). Place in an ovcri till brown and well risem. berve hot. Potted Cheese. (A good way to use the last pieces of dry Cheese). 1 lb. of Cheese (grated), 4 oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of made Mustard, Salt and Pepper to taste. Mix all to a stiff paste with thick cream. This mixture will keep good for several weeks. Cheese Souffle. 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Elour, 1 gill Milk, i teaspoonful Salt, 3 oz. grated Cheese, 3 yolks of Eggs, 4 whites, and a little white and Cayenne Pepper. In a small saucepan mix the butter and flour over the fire, tlieii add the milk. Stir till it boils and thickens. Take the pan off the fire and add the seasonings; mix well, add yolks one by one, then the cheese. Have the whites beaten stiff, and stir them in gently. Pour all into a buttered souffle tin or pie-dish, and bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. Serve instantly. Cheese (Stewed). Melt I oz. butter in pan. Add 1 oz. grated cheese, ^ oz. flour, i teaspoon mustard, and about 1 gill millv. to forai the cheese into nice smooth batter, rather thicker than cream. Prepare a slice of toasted bread, cut in four pieces, and place on each a spoonful of stewed cheese. Cheese Straws. 3 oz. of Elour, 2 oz. of Butter, yolk of an Egg, 2 oz. of grated Cheese, Cay- enne Pepper, and Salt. Rub the butter into the flour, add the grated cheese and season- ing (Pannesan is best), mix all together with the yolk of an egg. Roll out and cut into strips about two inches long. Bake on a greased baldng-sheet till a pale fawn colour. Cheese and tomato straws made by adding 1 tablespoonful tomato puree to mixture. Tomato Cheese. Melt 1 oz. butter with tablespoonful tomato sauce. Stir weU. Add 2i tablespoonfuls grated cheese, a few drops lemon juice, and a little cayenne. Seiwe very hot on buttered toast. Crab Pie. Fill shell with meat from crab, a little pepper, salt, and parsley, and a few bread cnimbs. Dot bits of butter over, and bake | hour. Craig:ie Toasts. Talvo three or foiir tomatoes. Remove pips, skins, etc., and put in a pan along with the yolks of two or three eggs. Let it simmer ter some time till it skins. Then I’emove from fire for some time. When required, add to the above salt and pepper, a few drops of