159 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. a cool oven, with door a little ojDcn, to harden them. Tlien scoop out the insides and put back into the oven to harden. Fill each half with whipped cream, flavoured with essence of vanilla. Join two together, and serve. Secret of a good Meringue is to dry, not bake. Should be in oven at least i- hour. New Yea.r Cakes. (More digestible than Mince Pies.) Take e<pial weight of chopped apples and raisins, brown sugar, candied peel and currants. To 1 lb. of mixture put juice and rind of lemon and ^ teaspoonful mixed spice. Make into small cakes with flaky paste, and brush over with white of egg and sprinkle sugar over. Orang-e Cakes. Take all the pulp of the oranges that you have used for making marmalade, and rub it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Allow 3^ lb,, of sugar to 1 lb. of the pulp, and boil it 1 hour, or until it becomes quite thick. Put it away in jars, and let it remain months until it becomes quite firm; and then take a sheet of white paper, and form some of the orange into small round cakes the size of a penny. Cover them Avith sifted sugar, and leave them to dry. Orange Rock Cakes. 1 lb. PloAir, i teacupful Sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder, 3 oz. Butter, 1 Egg, 1 Orange. Put flour, sugar, and powder in basin, mix well. Hub in butter ; grate in ^ rind of orange. Add juice of whole orange, and egg, well beaten, to make very stift' dough. Take off in rough pieces, about the size of a walnut, with two forks, and put on oven shelf, allowing a little sjjace between each. 10 or 15 minutes in quick oven. Queen Cakes. 8 oz. Flour, 2 oz. Butter, 2 oz. Sugar, 2 oz. Sultanas, 1 oz. Peel, rind of Lemon (grated), 1 Egg, and i teaspoonful Baking Powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add flour and egg gradually, beating well between times. Then add raisins, peel, and lemon rind. Beat again, and lastly add baking powder, and mix well. Fill small greased tins three parts full, and bake in oven very quick at first, then cooler. Cook till pale brown, and firm to touch. OR, 3 Eggs, Aveiglit of same in Flour, Sugar, and Butter, Essence of Lemon. Put the butter into a basin, and with the hand cream it well, add the eggs, and beat j then the flour, and continue to beat one way for about 16 minutes. Add a few drops' essence of lemon. Put in small greased tins, and bake in quick oven for about | hour. Raspberry Buns. Mix 6 oz. ground rice and same of flour. Rub in J lb. lard, same of sugar, and teaspoonful baking powder. Mix into stiff paste, with yolk of egg and a little milk. Divide into balls, hollow each and in- sert a little raspberry jam. Close up, and dip in white of egg. Flatten a little, and bake in shai'p oven. They will crack and show jam through. Rice Buns. 2 oz. Flour, 2 oz. Casfor Sugar, i teaspoouful Baking Powder, 1 lb Rice Flour, 2 oz. Butter, 2 Egg.s, Vanilla Essence, or Rind of 1 Lemon. Cream the sugar and butter, add ^ the flour and 1 egg, then the remainder of the flour, egg, essence, and baking powder. Fill greased