TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 72 eggs well and mix; bake about 1 hour. Serv’e with brown sauce, poured over, and currant jelly, and garnish with parsley. Ha-ricot Bean Omelet. i lb. Haricot Beaus, 3 oz. Bread Crumbs, 1 Egg, ^ oz. Butter, 3 teaspoonfuls Parsley, and a teacupful of Milk. Pick, wash, and steoj^) the beans all night; then, in the morning, boil till quite soft. Mash well with the butter; add the bread crumbs, parsley finely chopped, egg well beaten and mixed with the milk. Season with pepper and salt. Put into a buttered dish, and bake 1 hour in a rather brisk oven. Serve with brown or onion sauce. Macaroni Omelet. 1 lb. Macaroni, ^ lb. Onions (fried), 3 Eggs, tablespoonful Sage, Pepper, Salt, and a little Milk if required. Boil the macai’oni in as much water as it will absorb. Onions to be fried in a little water. Then add the other ingredients, and bake 1 hour. Serve with brown sauce. Oatmeal Omelet. 4 oz. Bread Crumbs, 3 Eggs, i oz. Butter, Salt, Pepper, ^ pint Milk (hot), 4 oz. boiled chopped Onions, 1 bz. Oatmeal, 1 teaspoonful Sage, \ tea- spoonful each of Thyme and Marjoram. Pour the boiling milk upon cnimbsy and soak 1 hour. Beat mix- ture with fork, and add all other ingredients. Butter dish. Put all in, and bake 1 hour. Onion Omelet. 6 Onions, 4 Eggs, 2 oz. Breadcrumbs, 5 tablespoonfuls Milk. Slice onions and bake in disli ^\^[th pepjDer and salt till tender; add beaten eggs, milk, bread crumbs, and onion. Bake 1 hour, and serve with brown sauce. Savoury Omelet. 1 lb. Bread, G oz. Onions, 2 oz. Tapioca, 2 oz. Parsley, 5 oz. Butter, 6 Eggs, 1 small teaspoonful dry Mustard, li teaspoonful Salt, a little Pepper, and mixed Herbs. Crumble the bread fine. Put the cinst into cold water, and when soft mash with a fork, and add to cnimbs Steep tapioca in ^ pint of cold water 2 hours; put it with the parsley and onions, chopped fine, to the bread cnimbs; add the herbs, finely chopped ; season with pepper and salt. Brown 3 oz. of butter in a. small saucepan. Pour it on the bread crumbs, and mix the whole with the eggs, well beaten. Melt 2 oz. butter in a dish; pour in the omelet, but not filling the dish above an inch from the top. Bake an hour in a brisk oven. Turn out in a flat dish, and serve with brown sauce. Spanish Omelet. Slice of Bread, 2 Eggs, 1 or 2 Spanish Onions, 2 oz. Butter, Salt and Pepper. Peel and slice onions, and put into a stewpan along with the but- ter. Brown nicely. Crumb bread; put it into a small bowl; add eggs, well beaten, and a little milk if eggs do not moisten it sufficient- ly. Butter a pie-dish; pour in first browned onions, then pour over them the egg mixtui-e. Place in a moderate oven, and brown 16 min- utes. Turn out on hot ashet and serve. Tomato Omelet. i lb. Bread Crumbs, 4 Onions, 1 lb. Tomatoes, 1 oz. Butter, 3 Eggs, ^ pint Milk, Pepper and Salt. Take bread-oinimbs, chopped onions, pepper, salt, butter, the