148 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Oat Cakes (1). 13 Ibg. of fine Meal, 3 oz. of Lard or Dripping, 1 teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda, 2 teaspoonfulg of Salt. Mix all together with hot water and roll out quickly, and care should be taken not tojiave the dough too dry. Sprinkle the bake- board well with meal, and also the dough. Cut either square or round. Bake in a quick oven. Oat Cakes (2). Put 2^ handfuls of fine oatmeal in a bowl, with a teaspoon sugar and a little salt. Pour over this J pint of boiling water in which 1 oz. of butter or dripping has been melted. Mix well with a spoon, then turn out on board and knead with the hands into a round. Take the rolling pin and roll out very thin, taking care tb dust the pin well with meal to keep it from sticking. Nick nicely round edges with finger and thumb. Cut in four. Have the girdle nice and hot, bring it to the edge of the board, and slip the cakes on to it. Fire on cne side until edges begin to curl up, then toast the other side in front of the fire. An hour or two in a moderately hot oven makes them nice and dry and crisp. Prepared Flour (Self-Raising:). Put half-a-stone of flour into a basin; mix with the flour IJ oz. carbonate of soda, and exactly the same weight of cream of tartar. Add also 3 teaspoonfuls of fine salt, and 1 tablespoon fine sugar. Mix, and pass through wire sieve, or very carefully with the hand. Will keep good in a covered crock for weeks. In winter, when the butter- milk is not so acid, 2 oz. cream of tartar will be required for 1^ oz. of soda. For 4 teacupfuls of this prepared flour, add 1 breakfastcup of butter-milk; a dessertspoon of butter rubbed into the flour is a great improvement. . Prepared Flour for Scones. 4 lb. Flour, 2 oz. Cream of Tartar, 1 oz. Bi-carbonate of Soda. Rub the tartar and soda in a mortar till very fine; put through a wire sieve along with the flour. Sally Lunns. 1 lb. Flour, 2 oz. Butter, i oz. German Yeast (good weight),between i and i pint. Lukewarm Milk, 1 Egg, 1 teaspoon Castor Sugar, ^ teaspoon Salt. Melt the butter in a pan, add part of the milk and yeast. Mix sugar, salt, and flour, and pour the butter, yeast, and milk into the middle of it, adding the rest of milk and egg well beaten. Knead well into a light dough. Warm and grease two or three round tins and place the dough in them, cover with a cloth, and let then rise in a warm place for 1 hour. Bake in a quick oven for half-an-hour (more or less). Scones (1). 1 lb. Flour, 2 oz Butter, 2 oz Sugar, i oz. Cream of Tartar, i oz. Bi-oar- bonate of Soda, i pint sweet or Butter-milk. Rub butter and flour together; then add sugar and cream of tartar. Dissolve the soda in the milk (cold), and mix all together in a basin to a stiff dough. Roll it out, about an inch thick, and bake in a moderate oven (when cut into the needed size) about 16 minutes; or on a girdle, and serve hot. When required for breakfast, the sugar