2l0 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOR. Coffee Creams. 2i cupfuls Sugar, i cupful Strong Coffee. Boil together 4 minutes. Cool, beating all the time. Roll paste into balls and harden. Lemon Honey. Grated Eind and juice of 2 Lemons, 2 oz. Butter, J lb. Loaf Sugar, 1 tea- spoonful Ground Rice, and 2 Eggs. Melt the butter in a pan; then add the sugar, lemon juice and rind, and ground rice. Stir constantly till it boils. Take it ofl the fire, and add the eggs (beaten). Do not put it on fire again, but stir till cool. This quantity should fill a 1 lb. jar. Lemon Preserve. Put in stewpan ^ lb. butter, 1 lb. lump sugar, grated rind of 2 lemons and juice of 3. Keep stirring mixture till sugar dissolves. Add 6 well beaten eggs. Continue stirring till it begins to thicken, but do not let it boil. When consistency of honey, it is done. Will keep six months. Marzipan. i lb. Ground Almonds, 1 lb. Sifted Loaf Sugar, Whites of 2 fresh Efegs, and a few drops Eseence Almonds. Mix sugar and almonds, then add, little by little, stiff whites, until mixture assumes appearance of paste. As some eggs contain more white than other's, a little less than the 2 may be enough. Paste must be quite finn. Foi*nr into' blocks, and di’y very slowly in o nroderate oven. Marzipan Potatoes. \ lb. Icing Sugar, \ lb. Crushed Almonds, the White of an Egg, and a little Ground Cinnamon, Cocoa, or Ground Chocolate. Beat egg, add sugar and almonds, roll into round balls and tt>ss in the cinnamon, then mark as like a potato as possible with a fork. Peppermint Creams. Whites of 2 Eggs and as much Icing Sugar as will form a stiff paste, and a few drops Peppermint. Mix well, and roll out to J inch. Ctit in small moulds, and spread on sheets of paper to set. Ready next day. Peppermint Creams (2). 1 lb. Sugar, 1 pinch Cream of Tartar, 1 teacupful Water, 1 teaspoonful Essence of Peppermint. Let all ingredients boil together (except the peppermint) until, on trying one or two dmps in cold watei', a soft ball can be made (in from 8 to 12 minutes). Then pour into a basin, and when lukeWai'm beat with a wooden spoon till white and creamy. Then add peppermint. Turn mixture on board and knead it till soft and smooth. Roll out and cut in rounds or squ.'ires. While kneading, use icing sugar to prevent sticking. Russian Cream. ^ packet Cox’s Gelatine, 2 tumblers Milk, 1 tablespoonful fine Sugar, 2 Eggs i teaspoonful Essence. Steep gelatine in milk (to soften) for 10 minutes or so. Put gela- • tine, milk, and yolks of eggs in pan. Bring to boiling point, but on no account) through the boil. White of eggs to be switched to a snotv. laft pan off fire and thoroughly mix in the white of eggs. Pour into delf moulds, wetted first.