102 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. Apple Fritters. Pare and slice 2 apples, and lay on a plate with sugar over them. IMix 1 teacupful flour, teaspoonful baking po-wder, 1 tablespponfu) sugar, 1 egg well beaten (yolk and white separately), a little milk if required. Have frying-pan with a good supply of boiling dripping. Dip the slices of a])ple into the batter, drop them into the fat, and fi'y a nice deep brown, both sides. Serve with siftorl sugar. Oranges, pine-apple, or any fruit can be used in a similar manner. (Grandmother’s) Apple Pie. Line a deep pie-dish with plain paste. Pare, quarter, and cut apples in thin slices (Greenings best), xidd 1 cup sugar and \ grated nutmeg mixed with it. Fill dish heaping full of sliced apple, with sugar sprinkled between layers. Wet edges with cold water, lay on cover, press down securely that no juice may escape. Bake f hour, or a little less if apples very tender. Apple Jam Puddingy. lb. Flour, i lb. Suet, J lb. Sugar, J 11). Bread Crumbs, i lb. chopped Apples, 3 Eggs, aud a little Milk, 1 teaspooiiful Bakiug Powder. Mix the floair, bread crumbs, sueh, sugar, and applies together. x\dd the eggs and milk, so' that it is of a moist consistency. Add baking i^owclcr, and pour all into a buttered mould, and boil 4 hours. Apple Omelette. 6 large Apples, 3 oz. Sugar, 2 Eggs, 3 oz. Butter, 6 oz. Bread Crumbs. Boil apples as for sauce. Stir in butter and sugar, and Avhen cold add eggs well beaten. Butter pudding dish cold. Strew layer of bread crumbs, one inch thick, at bottom of dish and sides. Pour in apple-s. Strew crumbs over top, and bake one horn-. Turn out, and sift sugar over it. Apple Pancakes. Any ordinary pancake Ijatter Avill do for this dish. Make your pancakes very thin' in small frying-pan. As you fry, place them on one another, and cover to keep hot. Have ready, previously made, about a breakfastcvq)ful of apple juilp, made with Avell-iiavoured apples and sugar. No spice or water requii'ed in making the pulp; merely pare, quarter, and core your apples. Put them into' a small saucepan over a gentle heat until soft; then with a silver fork l)eat into a pulp. Now take a pancake. Put a spoonful of pulp in the centre; fold over to make a square. The pulp cannot fall out if folded properly. When all, are ready, lay them on a dish, cover over, and put in the oven till quite hot. When read^'^ to serve, sprinkle over Avith castor sugar and a little poAvdered cinnamon. Serve quickly. Apple Pudding: (1). Apples, Bread, Sugar, Sultanas, Lemon Juice. Butter deep pudding dish. Cover bottom and sides Avith thin slices of bread (white or broAAui), then a layer of pared sliced apples and sugar and a few sultanas, another layer of bread, and then fruit and sugar until full, a layer of bread being last. Fill in Avith any fruit juice or water, cover with a plate, and bake 4 hours in a slow oven.