TRIED FA-VOVRITES COOKERY BOOK. 239 USEFUL TO KNOW IN SIGK-NURSING. Hot SAjfDBAGS.—Get some clean, fine sand, dry it thoroughly in a kettle or pan on the stove j malse a bag about eight inches square of flannel, fill it with the dry sand, sew the opening carefully togeth^ir, and cover the bag with cotton or linen cloth. This will prevent the sand from sifting out, and also enable you to heat the bag quickly by placing in the oven or on the top of the stove. After once using this you will never again attempt to ■vt'ann the hands or the feet of a sick person with hot-water bottles. The sand holds the heat for a long time, and the bag can be tucked up to the back without hurting the invalid. An agreeable me(hod of changing the atmosphere in an invalid’s room is to pour some Eau-de-Cologne into a soup plate, and with a lighted match set fire to it. The spirit will make a pretty flame, and impart a delightful refreshing odour to the air. The best way to treat the eye with a cinder in it is to let that eye alone, and rub the other one. If you shut your finger in a door or bruise it in any way, put it in water as hot as you can bear ; in a few minutes change it for hotter, and keep it in water at least 15 minutes. If the foot is bruised talre off the shoe and stocking and immerse it in hot water from 16 to 30 minutes, adding hot water often. The juice of a lemon before breakfast will often cure a bilious headache; but no sugar must be taken with it. In severe paroxysms of coughing a tablespoonful of glycerine in a glass of hot milk will give almost instantaneous relief. Three strawberry leaves, eaten green, are said to be an unfailing and immediate cure for summer complaints, diarrhoea and dysentery. An application of brown paper steeped in vinegar is an old-fash- ioned remedy for “a cold in the chest,” a soi-e throat, or a bmise. It owes its efficacy to the heat-i’etaining properties of the paper. Paper (thick brown) stitched between the lining and cloth of a waistcoat or in the back of a thin coat will render it warm, as well as light. If the poor only knew this, they would stitch strong sheets of tliick paper to back of old quilts and thus render their families more comfortable, because better protected from the bitter weather. A good remedy for a cold is to spread a piece of brown paper with pig’s lard, then sprinkle sidphur over, and wear over chest. If a mustard poidtice or plaster be mixed with vinegar, instead of water, all risk of a chill is avoided. If the white of an egg is used to mix it, it will not blister the tenderest sliin, and may be applied to infants. _ A sure and simple cure for hiccough is to drink half a teaspoonful of vinegar; and keep your arms in an upright position for a minute or so afterwards, or until you feel it no longer necessaiT- to keep them in that position. To remove fish bones from the throat, suck a lemon, which dis- solves the mineral part of the bone and makes it quite flexible. An- other way is to swallow a raw egg immediately. To drink water is useless. Cold tear-leaves bound on a bum take out the fire at once. Make smelling salts by breaking Id rock ammonia into rather