TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 137 and allow to cool whilst you beat up the d- whites to a very stiff froth. When this is done mix in lightly, but thoroughly, the chocolate, and heap it up roughly in a glass dish. Take the tinned pine apple, re- move any “eyes” from it, and cut into neat squares. Put a border of these squares round the sponge, and send quickly to table. Chocolate Trifle. i teacupful brown Sugar, 2 teacupfuls Milk, 1 teacupful Butter, 2 teacupfula Syrup, 1 tablespoonful Cornflour, broken into a little of the milk. Boil the mixture 5 minutes, then add a breakfastcupful of grated chocolate, a pinch of carbonate of soda, and flavouring of vanilla. Boil all till it is of the consistency of thick custard, and remove from the fire. Take 6 penny sponge-cakes, cut in half, lay on dish, and soak well in milk. Place a layer of cake, and then chocolate, and so on. Cover all with some well-whipped cream. A Compote of Mixed Fruits. Strawberries, grapes, raspberries, green figs, melon, pine-apple, like. Cut up the larger fruits, and sift a little sugar over all in a dish. Make a syrup by boiling 1 lb. sugar and 1^ pints water till reduced to a pint. Pour over fruit wliilo hot and stand in cool place for 24 hours. Turn out into glass bowl and serve very cold. Make plenty of syrup so that fruit floats about in it. A Compote of Orangfes, or other Fruit. Soak ^ ounce Mackay’s extract of calves’ feet in \ pint water overnight. Add J lb. sugar, and bring to the boil.- Then place in 4 sweet oranges, which have been peeled, and as much of the white removed as possible, and divided into- liths. Boil till fruit is tender —oranges.take about 10 minutes; cranberries, which need more sugar, 7 minutes; strawberries 5 minutes; cherries 5 minutes. Fill mould with cold water, pour out, but don’t dry; then fill in mixture. If a double mould is used, place whipped cream or white of egg in centre. If compdte is of red fruit, cut shapes of hard-boiled egg and add as improvement. Cream Shape. 1 oz. best Isinglass, Cream, Sugar, and Essence of Vanilla. Boil the isinglass in a small quantity of water until quite dis- solved. Take a pint and a half of good cream, boil half of it, having sweetened to taste, then strain the isinglass into it. Whisk up the remainder of the cream, after having added the essence, and when the hot cream becomes cool add to the cold cream, stir well, and pour into a well-oiled mould. A Creme Brulee. 10 oz. loaf Sugar, peel of 2 Lemons, 1 pint of Cream, yolk of 8 Eggs, a little Salt, i pint of whipped Cream, IJ oz. of clarified Isinglass. Put 2 ounces of pounded sugar into a stewpan with the grated p«»l of 2 lemons; stir these with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the sugar begins to assume a rather light brown colour, then pour in 1 pint of cream, and add to this 8 ounces of sugar, the yolks of 8 eggs, and a little salt. Stir the whole over the fire until the eggs are set, then strain cream through a hair sieve into a large basin, and mix