TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 23 Oysters (Scalloped) or Shrimps, &c. Oysters, i oz. Butter, Flour, 1 tablespoonful Milk, Oyster Liquid, 1 table- spoonful Cream, Salt and Cayenne Pepper to taste. Butter the shell, and sprinkle bread crumbs in. Pour in the mixture, then sprinkle with bread ciumbs and bake 20 minutes a golden brown. Fish Pastries. Rough puff paste rolled thin and baked in greased dishes with crust of bread in each (to make space for fish). Roll out trimmings and cut in squai-es, one for each tin, and bake these also. For fish mix- ture—Melt 1 oz. butter, add oz. flour and mix well. Then 1 gill milk and stir till boiling; have fish free from .bone and broken up. Take 4 tablespoonfuls and season with white peppei-, salt, and n little lemon juice. Add yolk of egg and stir lightly. Whip white to stiff froth and add last, when the rest is well mixed. Take patty pans fi'om oven, remove bread, fill with fish mixture, and heat through, for 3 oi' 4 minutes, to slightly brown. Place square of pastry on top and garnish with parsley. Russian Fish Pie. i lb. Fish cooked or raw, 1 liarcl boiled Egg finely chopped, 1 teaspoouful Parsley, grated Is>iuon Rind, 2 tablespoonfuls White Sauce, 1 oz. Butter, Pepper ami Salt, Flaky Paste. Rice may be mixed with (his, and, if liked, tinned salmon may be used, mixed with rice. Fish must be free from bones and cut small. Mix thoroughly. Roll the 4 lb. paste into a square. Place mixture on centre of paste, corners being met and brought to centre, leaving corners open. Decorate and glaze rvith egg and milk. \ Plaice a la Duchesse. 1 filleted Plaice. 1 gill cold Water, 1 oz. Butter, 1 oz. Cornflour, Pepper, Salt, aud Lemon Juice, 2 tablespoonfuls fino Crumbs, i oz. Butter, teaspoonful Parsley, and yolk of Egg. Mix parsley, crumbs, pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Form into fillets, and double over. Bake hour till firm and white. Place on each an anchovy. These, after being washed in tepid water and diied, shordd be tossed in lobster coi’al and folded into a bow. Make sauce as usual, and colour with anchovy essence or cochineal. Potted Fish. 1 medium-sized Crab, 1 lb. Halibut. Put halibut in pie dish. Sprinkle over with jiepper aud salt, and let it cook in oven till quite soft, but put no water in it. Then pick from the bone, and add to it the flesh of the crab (carefully picked). Pound both together in a mortar or bovd, and about 1 tabk^ spoonful butter (not melted), and pepper and salt to taste. J>ut in pots and cover with melted, Imtter. 1 m r.^ Pudding: (1). • Cold ^sh, i lb. Alacaroui, 2 oz. Grated Cheese, Pepper and Salt 1 pint Sauce. Dripping,, size of egg. Bread Crumbs. ’ ^ ^ cbi%n in boiling water, with lid oft’, then chop .small Make sauce with dessertspoonful dripping and same m'r«lp ^ J>/“kfastcupful of stock or milk, a little minced paisley and salt. Melt dripping, add flour, then stock, etc. Stir constantly one way, and boil 3 mingtes. Grease pie dish Put in