TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY . J'’ .V Banana Cream. 10 Bananas, 1 tablespoonful Castor Sugar, 1 oz. Gelatine, 2 O, , Cream, i pint Milk. Peel bananas and pass throngn a sieve. Add sugar an cream. Soak gelatine in 2 tablespoonfuls cold water, and, solved add it to milk, and let it just come to the boil. Tlien . to the cream and bananas and mix lightly. Turn into a mould and set in a cool place. Wlien set, turn out and put the oranges (cut in thin slices) round and servo. Bana.na Cream (2). Cut bananas in small circles, place in glass dish, .scatter castor sugar over and a few drops vanilla. Make thin custard with 2 eggs and pint milk and pour over tepid. Whisk I pint cream stiff and pile in little rough lieaiis over. Bananas and Custard. Allow one banana to each person, and a pint of good rich custard to every 5 bananas. Kemovo skin and split bananas lengthwise. Spread each half with strawberry ja.m, or any jireserve preferred, and lay the halves together again. Arrange neatly in glass dish, and pour custard over. Serve cold. Banana and Orange Cream. 1 Biinanas, 2 Oranges, 1 tablespoon of I’owilered Vegetable Gelatine, 2 table- epoonfuls Lemon* Juice, 1 teacup Castor Sugar, J pint Cream. Soak gelatine in ^ cup cold water overnight, and next morning dissolve it in the same quantity of boiling water. Peel bananas and rub through sieve, add juice and pulp of oranges and lemon juice and sugar. Mix all well, and add gelatine. Set in cool place till it begins to stiffen. Whip cream stiff and stir all together. Put into wetted mould. Banana and Prune Jelly. J bo.x of Gelatine, 4 Bananas cut in cubes, i cup of Cold Water, I cup of Sugar, i lb. Prunes, 2 cup of Lemon Juice, Boiling Water. Soak prunes overnight, then cook in water to cover until tender. Drain, remove stones and cut in pieces. Soak gelatine in the cold water, add enough lx)iling water to the hot prune liquid to make one pint, and pour over soaked gelatine, and strain the whole over the banana slices. Heat to the scalding point, add sugar, lemon juice, and pieces of prunes. Stir, but without crushing the bananas, until sugar is dissolved. Turn into mould and set aside to become firm. When cold, turn out and serve with whiiJped cream. Banana Pudding* (Uncooked). 6 Bananas, Whipped Cream or Custard, 3 tablespoonfuls Strawberry Jam. Peel and mash bandnas. Put jam in a glass dish and place bananas round it. Serve with custard separately, or whipped cream put round. Banana Sponge. i packet Gelatine,, } cup Cold Water, ^ cup Boiling Water, 1 cup Sugar, Juice of a Lemon, 1 cup Banana Pulp, Whites of 3 Eggs, slices Banana. Soften gelatine in cold water, add boiling water and sugar. When sugar is dissolved sti-ain over banana pulp, heat to scalding point, oool a little, add lemon juice, and beat over salt and water unHl light and cold, then beat in, gradually, the whites of eggs beaten stiff. Turn