TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK 174 INVALID COOKERY. ; Beef tea must never boil. It is the juice of the meat that contains the nourishment. The juice is much the same as the zvhite of an egg, and contains albumen. Every one knows if the white of an egg is boiled hard it becomes indigestible. So is juice for beef tea. If one is strong and well it is all right, but tvhen sick, the stomach is not cTble nor strong enough to digest it. Salt is added to loosen the fibre, and so helf the juices of the meat to leak out into the water. The meat is finely shred, so that the juices may more easily leak out. Cold water must be added; hot water woidd coagulate the albuminous farts of 'the meat, and prevent juices getting out. Any fat on beef tea must be removed with kitchen paper. “ The secret of success in making beef tea is not to cook it too fast." Beef Juice. Broil a thick piece of steak 3 minutes. Squeeze all juice out with a lemon squeezer into a cup. Salt veiy lightly, and give like beef tea. Beef Tea (cheap). ' 2 lb. Hough, or Shin of Beef. Take out the bone, remove the fat, and cut the meat into pieces about an inch square. Put these into a basin or jar, with a slight seasoning of pepper and salt, and a sprig or two of green parsley. Add pint of cold water, cover closely, and put into a quick oven. May be put in about 6 or 7 in the evening, when there is a good fire, and allowed to remain all night. When cold in the morning, take off any fat, and remove the meat. You need not strain the liquor, some of which may be just warujed up, not boiled, as required for use. The quantity of water will depend on the condition of the patient. If very weak, and only able to take a teaspoonful or so at a time, a half pint will be quite sufficient; if the tea is to be taken as a strengthen- ing draught by a convalescent, twice that quantity, or even more, may be used. Beef Tea (slowly made). 1 lb. lean Beef (freshly killed meat from top of the round), 1 pint Cold Water, small pinch Salt, if allowed. Cut beef in thin strips, and shred with knife on board. Put in jar with salt and water, stir well with fork ; stand for 2 hours, stir- ring occasioually to draw out all albumen. Place buttered paper over, to prevent steam condensing and adding to its bulk, and. stand in pan of boiling water half-way up jar. Simmer 2^ hours; give final stir when takeTi out, and strain through coarse strainer, pre.ssing out beef tea with fork. Another Good Recipe. Take some very lean beef, cut it into small pieces, removing any fat, and put into a stone jar, more than covering it with water. Allow this to stand 12 hours; next put it into the oven to stew slowly for 3 hours, or in saucepan with water, and steam 3 hours.