150 TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. work as little as possible; roll out thin. Cut into shapes, and bake on hot girdle 4 minutes on each side. Cream Scones. i lb. Flour. 1 oz. Butter, pinch Salt, 1 teaspeonful Bakine Powder (small). 1 Egg, about 1 gill fresh Cream. Amount of cream depends on dryness of flour, liub dry ingred- ients together. Beat 1 egg, and add lialf cream to it; then mix to a stiffish dough. Turn on slightly floured board. Roll out once only, and handle as little as joossible. Prick dough well over before cutting in shapes. Bake on floured tin in quick oven. After cooked, take point of knife, cut tiny slit at side, and slip in a little bit of fresh butter. Eng^lish Scones. l.lb. Flour, 1 oz. Butter, f teaspoonful Ci’eam of Tartar, and nearly t»a- spoonful Baking Soda, 1 teaspoonful Salt. Mix all, and moisten with butter-milk—must be quickly and lightly mixed, and no lumps of soda left. Knead slightly. Mark in 4 on to^D. Place on floured tin, and bake in quick oven 15 minutes. When taken from oven, do not cut, but break them in marked plac^js. Garibaldi Scones. 1 lb. Flour, 2 oz. Butter or Dripping, 1 oz. Sugar, 1 teaspoon Baking Soda, 1 teaspoon Tartaric Acid, and weet Milk sufficient to mix hito a .soft paste. Rub butter in among dry articles and make into a soft paste with liiilk, using a spoon and not stirring much. Divide into three pieces, roll each piece and divide into four. Brush over with egg or milk, and bake for about 10 minutes in a moderate oven. Pancake Scones (1). 2 teacupfuls Flour, i teaspoon Soda, 1 do. Cream of Tartar, ^ do. Salt, small i teacup Sugar, 1 teaspoon Syrup, 1 Egg (well beaten), 1 teaspoon Butter. Mix with butter-milk into a batter, not too stift’. Grease girdle and make it hot, then pour mixture in tablespoonfuls on girdle end turn once. Pancake Scones (2). 1 breakfastcupful of Flour, 1 Egg, 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, 1 dessert- spoonful Sugar, 3 breakfastcupful Butter-milk (or sweet). Mix them carefully to a smooth thin batter, and bake them on a girdle about 5 minutes (turning them). Pancake Scones (3). 2 teacupfuls Flour, 1 do. Milk, 1 tablespoonful Butter, 2' do. Sugar, 1 Egg, 1 teaspoonful Cream of Tartar, 1 do. Soda. Beat egg with sugar, add melted butter, then mix soda with inilk; add to egg, sugar, and butter, and put cream of tartar in flour. Then add mixture to flour and beat well. Pancake Scones (4). 3 teacupful of Flour, i do. of Sugar, 1 teaspoonful Baking Soda, 2 do. Cream of Tartar, 1 teacupful of Milk, 2 Eggs. Fire in large spoonfids on liot greased girdle, making pancakes Verv thin. Plain White Scones. Mix 4 teacupfuls flour, 1 teaspoonful carbonate of soda, 1^ do. cream of tartar, ^ do. salt, 2 do. sugar or 2 do. syrup (which makes the scones a light brown colour). Rub into the flour a dessertspoonful