TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 83 Mustard Sauce. ., , . , Mix 2 tablespoonfuls Keen’s ready-made mustard with J pint of white sauce or melted butter. A teaspoomful of vinegar may be added, if liked, also a few grains of cayenne. Used with fresh boiled lob- sters, herring, and tripe. Onion Sauce. Boil 4 onions till they are tender, with a little salt. Drain and chop them. Put a dessertspoon of butter in the saucepan ; dissolve a dessertspoon of flour in a teacupful of milk. Let the butter get hob; put in the onions, flour, and milk. Stir till it boils; add salt and pepper to taste; and, just before seiwing, stir in a small bit of butter, but do nob let it boil again. Serve with mutton, either boiled or roasted. Oyster Sauce. Open oysters when just ready tO' make sauce. Save their liquor, strain it, and put it to them, and bring only to the boil. Pour them into a basin, and after picking and bearding them, return to stewpan, in which there must be a proportion of \ pint very thick melted butter to 2 dozen small oysters. Strain liquor over them, and let them come to the boil; set by side of fire till tender, but don’t allow to boil or will harden oysters. A'idien ready stir in a little cream, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Parsley Sauce. 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Flour, i pint Water, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped Parsley, Pepper and Salt. Wash, drj', and chop parsley finely, throw it into a small sauce^ pan of boiling water slightly salted, and boil 3 or 4 minutes, not longer. Then stir it into melted butter, naade as directed. Sauce Piquante. 2 teaspoonfuls chopped Onions, 1 teaspoonful Vinegar, and i teacupful Stock. Boil onion a few minutes, add a cupful brown sauce, which must be as thick as cream, 1 teaspoonful French mustard, a few chopped gherkins and mushrooms. Russian Sauce. Slice 3 onions. Brown them in 1 oz. butter, with pinch pepper and salk Cbver with tight lid till the onions are ready. Add 1 oz. flour, a cup of stock, a small half teacup of cream. Stir over fire foa’ 5 minutes, and strain. Sagfe and Onion StufHng:. li lbs. Onions, 1 dessertspoonful Mixed Sage, 3 oz. Bread Crumbs, 2 tea- spoonful Salt, i teaspoonful Pepper. Peel the onions and boil J hour, then drain and chop them, add sage, bread ci-umbs and seasoning, and mix well. For roast goose, etc. Soubise Sauce. 3 Onions, oz. Butter, J teaspoonful Salt, 2 tablespoonful Cream, i pint Milk, 1 oz. Flour, i teaspoonful Pepper. Peel onions, blanch tliem, cook gently in boiling water, and rub through wire sieve when tender. Melt butter in pan, stir in flour smoothly, add pepper, salt, and milk gradually. Stir till boiling, add onions, boil again, add cream and a dust of nutmeg.