TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 237 cold oil a burn causes pain to abate immediately; by leaving it on an hour the burn seems almost healed, when burn is superficial. Char- coal forma an unrivalled poultice for malignant wounds and sores, often corroding away the dead flesh, reducing it one quarter in 6 hours. In cases of proud flesh it is invaluable. It gives no disagreeable odour, corrodes no metals, hurts no texture, injures no* colour, is a simple and safe sweetener and disinfectant. A teaspoonful charcoal in half a glass water often relieves a sick headache. It absorbs the gases and relieves the distended stomach by pressing against the nerves which extend from the stomach to^ the head. It relieves constipation, pains, or heartburn. Borax. 1 proportion witli 2 of honey or glycerine, good for sore throats or thrush. 1 teaspoonful in 1 pint warm water is a healing solution for sores, cuts, or wounds. Wash with the solution, then dip a soft linen rag in, squeeze and bind round. 1 teaspoonful added to washing water prevents rough skin and chapped hands, also good for flushing of face. In laundry, makes collars, curtains, &o., beautifully white; also splendid for washing flannels. Use 2 tablespoonfuls to 3 gallons water. Very little soap needed. Add a little to water for kitchen towels, makes them a good col- our, eradicates dirt and grease, acts as a disinfectant and softens the hands. To wasli black cashmere, add 2 teaspoonfuls to soapy lather. Rinse in very blue water. Add teaspoonful to boiled starch. Dissolve teaspoonful in 1 pint hot water to clean a sponge. Pour a strong solution down drains and sinks. Add a pinch to water silver and glass are washed in, removes marks and makes tliem glitter. To remove fur from kettles, dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls in a kettle full of hot water. Let it boil J hour, when fur will be loosened and may be thrown away. Scatter equal paids borax and castor sugar mixed, about haunts of cockroaches, will disperse them like nothing else. Dissolve tablespoonful in gallon hot water to wash hair. Cleanses scalp from dandruff, softens and brightens the hair. Add a pinch in brewing tea, and to water green vegetables are boiled in; makes them a much brighter colour. Salads laid in cold water with a pinch of borax will be crisp and well-flavoured. A strong solution sprayed on plants will exterminate green fly. Antiseptic mouth-wash: —1 teaspoonful tincture of myrrh and i teaspoonful spirits of camphor in a bottle. Dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls myra borax in a pint hot. water and pour into the bottle with camphor and myi’rh. Shalce well and use in proportion of a tablespoonful to J tumbler of water. Uses of the Lemon. An eminent London doctor writes : —Lemonade from juice of the lemon is one of the best and safest drinks for any person, whether in