TRIED FAVOURITES COOKERY BOOK. 207 the boil and cook for 30 minutes, adding the rind of 2 lemons and, if possible, one orange. Strain througli a hair sieve, and, whilst still hot, sweeten to taste with brown sugar. Wlien cooled, add 1 ounce of tar- taric acid or ^ ounce of citric acid. Serve when cold. This quantity will keep good foi- 2 or 3 days in a dry, cool place. Orangfe Syrup. Select ripe and thin slcinned fruit; squeeze .juice, add to every pint 1^ lb. sifted sugar. Boil it slofwly, and skim as long as any scum rises; you may then take it off; let it grow cold, and bottle. Be sura to secure corks well. 2 tablespoonfuls of this syrup mixed in melted butter makes admirable sauce to plum, &c., puddings, and imparts fine flavour to custards. Peppermint Cordial. 1 lb. Loaf Sugar, 1 pint Boiling Water. Simmer 10 minutes, then stir in 1 tablespoonful honey. When nearly cold, add 30 drops of the essence of peppermint. Bottle for use. i tablespoonfuls to a tumbler of hot or cold water makes a delicious drink. Essence of ginger can be used in the same way. Prune Water. i lb. Prunes, i Small Lemon, 3 breakfastcups Water, Sugar. Slit each prune down side and put in pan with lemon rind very thinly pared. Boil very slowly | hour. Add juice of lemons, strain, sweeten,.and use cold. Very refreshing. Raspberry Drink. Look over berries. Mash in earthen pan. Put on lire with 1 pint water to 1 pint of pulp. When it comes to boil put through sieve. Boil 6 minutes. For use:—Put in tumbler 2 tablespoonfuls with 1 tablespoonful of simple- sjTup of icing sugar and fill up with cold water. Almost any fresh fruit can be used. With plums the juice of lemon is an improvement, and extra sugar. Raspberry Vinegfar. Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with rasps freshly gathered j fill up with vinegar. Cook, and let them stand for a month. Then strain them. If the juice is very thick, add a little cold vinegar, and to every breakfastcupful of juice add ^ lb. of sugar. Boil in a pan ^ hour. Skim and bottle when cold. Raspberry Water. 1 pint Berries, 1 quart Cold Water, 1 Lemon, 4 oz. Sifted Sugar. Pick berries, press juice through fine sieve or cloth. Mix sugar with juice, lemon juice, and water. Currants, Strawberries, and Gooseberries in same way, but us* no lemon witli currants, as they are acid enough. Red Currant Drink. Dissolve f lb. ciaished loaf sugar in i pint of hot water. Add 1 pint red currant juice. Put all in a jug, cover closely, and let stand in a pan of boiling water for about 1 hour, I'emoving the scum as it lises. When cold, bottle and cork well. Rhubarb Sherbet. Choose some fine red rhubarb, cut it up, and put ^ pint of the pieces into a stewpan with a quart of water; boil it 20' minutes, then strain it into a jug with 3 oz. of loaf sugar, on which the rind of a small lemon has been extracted; cover it, and let it stand to cool.