Hints for the Tahle. cause, has faded and gone off. In that case, a spoonful of soup, a flake of fish, a slice of cold beef, in succession, will provoke an appetite, and with it digestion, where the nicest mutton cutlet, or the most tempting slice of venison, would have turned the stomach.—Mayo. A notion once generally prevailed that viands cooked in the French fashion were deprived of their nutritive properties in the process. This was uril'ounded; for, according to Dr. Prout, in France most substances are exposed, through the medium of oil ■or butter, to a temperature of at least 600 degrees, by the opera- tion of frying, or some analogous process. They are then intro- duced into a macerating vessel, with a little water, and kept for several hours at a temperature far below the boiling point, not perhaps higher than 180 degrees, and by these united processes, the articles, whether of animal or vegekible origin, are reduced more or less to a state of pulp, and admirably adapted for the farther action of the stomach. Numbers of persons attribute gout to tbe frequent use of dishes dressed in the French fashion. “ Many years’ experience and observation,” says M. Ude, “have proved to me that this disorder has not its origin in good cheer, but in excesses of other kinds. * * A copious and sustained exercise is the surest pre- ventive. It is true the gout more frequently attacks the wealthy than the indigent; hence it has been attributed to their way of living; but this is an error. It is exercise only they need.” We all know how unpalatable fresh meat and vegetables are without salt; but few are aware of the mischief which has arisen fi’om not eating salt at meals. Dr. Paris relates that he once had a gentleman of rank under his care for a deranged state of the digestive organs; from some unexplainable cause, the patient had never eaten any salt with his meals, when the doctor en- forced the necessity of his taking it in moderation, and the recovery of his digestive powers was the consequence. Dr. A. Hunter notes: “ I was once so presumptuous as to suppose that the seasoning in cookery might be weighed out after the manner directed by physicians in their prescriptions; but I soon found that my plan was too mechanical. I have, therefore, abandoned it, and now freely give to the cooks the exercise of their right, in all matters that regard the kitchen.” Dr. King has well observed: The fundamental principle of all Is ■what ingenious cooks the relish call; For when the markets send in loads of food. They all are tasteless till that makes them good.