131 Art of Bnnlcing Wine. to Galienus, in Asia wines were hung about the chimne3'S till they had the hardness of salt, and were then dissolved in water to bo drunk. Pliny, when he celebrates the wines of Italy, and the praises of Falernian, does not even tempt us; for it seems that the best wines in his time were but syrups, which were diluted with water for drinking. To conciliate a few of the varied opinions on the prece- dence of French wines, the same writer observes: Some persons prefer Burgundy; others contend for Bordeaux; a few pre- tend that Champagne, still, and of the first quality, unites the Burgundian flavour with the Bordeaux warmth; while the native of the borders of the Ehone assert that the finest of all wines is Hermitage! All are right, and each in its turn is best, especially if the matm'ation of the fruit has been successful: this is rare, for there is a greater difference be- tween the wine of one year and that of another, grown in the same vineyard, than between the wine of a celebrated district and that procured from an obscure spot. Therefore, we should take the advice of Sterne, and, like the man at the fair, every one speak as he has found his market in it. According as we have drunk SiUery, La Komanee, or Medoc, of memorable years, we ought to prefer the districts which produced them respectively; always with this prudent restriction—not to be so exclusive in our taste, as not to welcome others in the absence of better. We may admire Corneille, adore Voltaire and Eacine; but still read with pleasure Parny, Boufilers, and Bertin; and even the sublime vis comica of Voltaire does not produce a distaste for the pret- tiness and pleasantry of Picard. Although the hydi-ometer is seldom applied to domestic uses, yet it might be employed for many ordinary purposes. The slightest adulteration of spirits, or any toher liquid of known quality, may be instantly detected by it. The liquor which contains most pure spirit, or alcohol, is Scotch whisky, being upwards of 54 per cent. Contrary to what is gene- rally supposed, the proportion of alcohol in rum is greater than that contained in brandy, the former being 53-68, and the latter 53-39. The next liquor in order of strength is gin, which con- tains about 51^ per cent, of alcohol. Poi’t and Madeira contain nearly the same quantity each, 22 percent.; cyder contains about twice as much as London porter, being as 7-54 to 4-20; brown stout and Scotch ale contain each about 6^; while Burton ale has nearlj' 9 per cent. etc. K 2