151 National Dinners. mouthfuls, may be taken up with a fork, and conveyed to the mouth of the fair one, without soiling her fingers or gloves. Theodore Hook describes a stand-up supper, as “ tables against the wall, covered with cold negus and warm ice; where men, women, and children, take perpendicular refreshment, like so many horses with their noses in the manger.” Ball suppers were mostly unsatisfiictory affairs, until M. Tide hit upon a plan of serving a supper, which should at once satisfy the guest by the excellence of the repast and the novelty of the ar- rangement, and the host by the smallness of the expense. This plan is to ornament the sideboard with a basket of fruit, instead of insignificant pieces of pastry. Place in their stead things that can be eaten—such as jelly, plates of mixed pastry, and sand- wiches of a superior kind, but not in too great profusion. Affix a label to each plate, indicating its contents, and you will find this arrangement will give the guests an opportunity of taking refreshments without being obliged to seat themselves at a table, from which the ladies cannot rise without disorde-jing their dresses, which to them is a matter of far greater moment than the best supper in the world. This is what is called a stand-up supper, which Theodore Hook has humorously descifibed above. A supper of the old school, however, affords the prettiest opportu- nities for flirtation; it being always understood that the sexes are to be intermingled as at a dinner party. The waste at ball-suppers of old was almost incredible. Ude states that he has known balls, where, the next day, in spite of the pillage of a pack of footmen, he has seen twenty or thirty hams, 150 or 200 carved fowls, and forty or fifty tongues, given away; jellies melted on the tables; pastry, pates, pies, and lob- ster salads, all heaped up in the kitchen, and strewed about the passages, completely disfigured by the manner in which it was necessary to take them from the dishes in which they had been served. Lady Morgan, in contrasting the cookery of past and present times, observes: “ Cruelty, violence, and barbarism were the cha- racteristics of the men who fed upon the tough fibres of half- dressed oxen; humanity, knowledge, and refinement belong to the living generation, whose taste and temperance are regulated by the science of such philosophers as Careme, and such Amphy- trions as his employers.”