72 Jlints for the Tulle. The peacock was formerly mucli more valued for the table than it is now; yet, at the present da^^ it is esteemed, when young, as a great delicacy. The guinea ibwl, in llavour, unites the merits of the turkey and pheasant; but it is not often served even at good tables. Slices of ham should be skewered over a guinea fowl while roasting, and it should be well basted, as the meat is very dry. A guinea fowl and ])heasant are advantiigeously dressed together. Quails have no llavour, and from confinement and bad feeding are never very fat; it is only the rarity that makes them fashion- able.— Tide. Redbreasts are eaten as first-rate delicacies in France, and are described as “ un- roti ires succulent.” They are likewise served en salmi, or hashed, like woodcocks. We have heard much of Dunstable larks; but the enthusiasm with which gourmets speak of these tit-bits of luxury is far ex- ceeded b}’’ the Germans, who travel many hundred miles to Leipsic, merely to eat a dinner of larks, and then return home contented. Such is the slaughter of larks at the Leipsic fair, that half a million are annually devoured, principally by the booksellers frequenting that city. Ruffs and reeves are less known than they deserve to be: they are worth nothing in their wild state, but being taken alive, tliey are fattened on boiled wheat, or bread and milk mixed with liempseed, for about a fortnight. The season for them is August and September; and the finest are taken on Whittlesea Mere, in Lincolnshire. ORTOLANS. Of these pet birds, “ lumps of celestial fatness,” as they are fondly termed by epicures, a pair is engraved in the frontispiece to the present volume, by permission, from Mr. Gould’s valuable work on the Birds of Europe. The name is from the Ortolano of the Italians generally; but the bird is also found in Germany and the Netherlands, and other parts of Europe. It is not famed for its song, which is, however, soft and sweet; and, like the nightingale, it sings after as well as before sunset. It was this bird that Varro called his companion by night and day. Ortolans are solitary birds; they fly in pairs, rarely three together, and never in flocks. They are taken in traps, from March or April to September, when they are often poor and thin; but if fed with plenty of millet-seed and other grain, they be- come sheer lumps of fat, and delicious morsels. They are fat- tened thus in large establishments in the south of Europe; and Mr. Gould states, in Italy and the south of France, in a dark room. The ortolan is considered sufficiently fat when it is a handful,