Covent Garden Marlcet. 91 sppcicilly esteemed among the Romans as a dainty and favourite dish. They are veiy nourishing, and are said to be strong sti- mulants. They are used as an addition to meat pies, sauces, and ragouts, and a particular dish is made of them nearly' alone. They are also used for stuffing turkeys, game, &c. Truffies are marinaded (salted, and afterwards preserved in oil and vinegar), and sent principally from Aix, Avignon, Bordeaux, Perigord, Cette, and Nice, to all the principal towns of Europe, whei-e_ they are served up at table, even in w'inter. Truffles are likewise found in Ensrland, at Goodwood, in Sussex; Northwood, near Slindon and Irtham; at Broome, in Kent, and Castle-Edendean, in Durham. Herbs, when dried and pressed into cakes, and wrapped in paper, may be kept three years; but, by the common mode of hanging them up in loose bundles, herbs soon lose their odour. Herb mixture of equal proportions of knotted marjoram and winter savoury, with half the quantity of basil, thyme, and tarragon, dried, rubbed to powder, and kept in a closely-corked bottle, will be found useful for forcemeats and flavouring. Whole peas are preferable to split: the external eoat preserves the flour of the pea, which soon flies olf when the surface is exposed. The leaf of the bay is much narrower and more pointed than that of the cheiTy-laurel, and has a very fragrant smell: it is mostly sold by Italian warehousemen. The supplies of fruit and vegetables sent to Covent Garden market, in variety, excellence, and quantity, surpass those of all other countries. There is more certainty of being able to pur- chase a pine-apple here every day in the year, than in Jamaica and Calcutta, where pines are indigenous. Forced asparagus, potatoes, sea-kale, rhubarb-stalks, mushrooms, French beans, and early cucumbers, are to be had in January and February; in March, forced cherries, strawberries, and spring spinach ; in April, grapes, peaches, and melons, with early peas ; in May, all forced articles in abundance. The supply of forced flowers, of green- house plants, and in summer of hardy flowers and shrubs, is equally varied and abundant; and of curious herbs for domestic medicines, distilleries, &c., upwards of 500 species may be pro- cured at the shop of one herbalist. Beneath the arcade, at the early market hour, are stationed hawkers of account-books, dog-coUai's, whips, chains, curry-combs, pastry, money- bags, tissue-paper for the tops of strawberry-pottles, and horse-chestnut leaves for garnishing fruit-stoUs; coffee-stalls, and stalls of pea-soup and pickled eels; ba,sket-makers; women making up noseg^s; and girls splitting huge bundles of water-cresses into little bunches. Here are fruits