Hints for the Table. 58 Meats. It has been computed that 1071b. of butchers’ meat only, that is, beef, mutton, veal, and lamb, are consumed by each individual, of «very age, in London annually. In Paris, only 851b. or 861b. are consumed by each person. Joints of meat should be hung knuckle downwards, to keep the gravy in the driest part. The surest mode of rendering meat or poultry tender is to wi’ap it in a cloth, and expose it the evening before cooking to a gentle and constant heat, such as the hearth of a fire-place. Meat sprinkled with, or immersed in, liquid chloride of lime for an instant, and then hung up in the air, will keep for some time, without the slightest taint, and no flies will attack it. Tainted meat, fish, game, &c., may be rendered sweet by sprink- ling them with the mixture. The only effectual method of removing the taint of meat by charcoal, is first to wash the joint several times in cold water; it should then be covered with cold water in large quantity, and several pieces of charcoal, red hot, should be thrown into the water, when somewhat hot; and the boiling of the meat proceeded with. A common test of the quantity of salt necessary to add to water, in making brine for pickling meat, is to continue to add salt until an egg will swim in it. This, however, is an imperfect test of the strength of the brine, since an egg will float in a saturated solution of salt and water, and will also float, if, to the same saturated solution, a bulk of pure water equal to twice the bulk of the latter be added. According to Guy Lussac, oz. of salt are necessary to saturate an imperial pint of water. This is important, since the efl[icacy of brine in preserving meat de- jrends very much upon getting a solution of salt at the exact point of saturation. It may be as well to add, that pork salted in brine kept in a leaden tank absorbs the poisonous metal. The death of Capt. Ennis, of the Tigress, in 1848, is attributed to such an acci- dental cause. VENISON. Venison is often spoiled bj'^ want of precaution in killing it. It is impossible for meat to keep, that is hunted three, four, or even five hours, which is too often the case with venison. The red deer of Dartmoor were destroyed in the time of the grandfather of the present Duke of Bedford, upon a petition of the farmers, on account of the injury done to their crops. Staghounds -were sent from Woburn, and the race was extirpated. So great