The Ice-well. 97 Ices were introduced into France so early as the middle ol’ the seventeenth century. Collee ice is made by placing a bowl of strong coffee with sugar- candy and cream iu an ice-pail till quite frozen. Some persons are of opinion that when any article is iced it loses its sweetness, and that it ought, therefore, to have an addi- tional quantity of sugar, which opinion is not correct; for the diminution of the sweetness arises from the materials not being properly mi.xed, when in the freezing-pot. In ices that are badly mixed, the sugar sinks to the bottom, and they have, necessarily, a sharp unpleasant taste.—Jarrin. An ice-well should be larger round than it is deep, for it is a common error to imagine that the deeper the well is the better ; on the contraiy, we know that the water naturally runs towards the depth, and drawing towards the walls, penetrates through the brickwork, and produces a humidity that melts the ice. To avoid this, a good well should be built with double walls, at the distance of eighteen inches or two feet apart, and the interval filled ujj with ashes, or any other matter of absorbent quality.— Jamn.* Bread. The nourishment in bread has, probably, been much overrated. Bread is known to constitute the chief food of the French pea- santry. They are a very temperate race of men, and they live in a fine dry climate. Yet, the duration of life amongst them is very short, scarcely exceeding two-thirds of the average duration of life in England. New bread is an ai-ticle of food most difficult of digestion. Everything which by mastication forms a tenacious paste, is in- digestible, being slowly pervaded by the gastric juice. Even bread sufficiently old, which it never is till it is quite dry, is fre- quently oppressive if taken alone and in considerable quantity. The sailor’s biscuit, or bread toasted very hard, often agrees better with a weak stomach than bread in other states.—Dr. Philip. Brown bread is recommended to invalids, for its containing ' O * Ice is nearly as expensive in England as in much warmer climates; in inild seasons, it has even been imported into this country by shiploads. In Kew York, carts of ice are driven for sale, in small quantities, all over the city. Iced soda-water, from the fountain, is in almost universal use, and is sold in almost every street; it is dehciously prepared, and frequently flavoured with lemon syrup; the priee is three-pence for a tumbler. H