140 Ilivfsfor the Tahle. Soda-water rarely contains any soda; it being merely common water charged with fixed air: it is often drunk to neutralize acid in the stomach, in which case fifteen or twenty grains of carbonate of soda, finely powdered, should be put into a large glass, and a bottle of soda-water poured on it. Dr. Graham, however, ob- 1 serves, that the practice of taking carbonate of soda and soda- water freely, is a very injurious one. In full habits, where there I is much strength, they may be occasionally taken with advan- i tage, but scarcely in other less vigorous states of the constitution, f Carbonate of soda, adds the Doctor, should never be used in 1 the tea-pot, and very seldom in beer. Seltzer-water, when fresh, has a brisk, slightly acid taste, and makes a refreshing drink with Rhenish wine and powdered loaf siigar; in this state it is, pi’obably, the most wholesome beverage in warm weather. Rut the best recommendation of Seltzer- water, is the plain fact that the inhabitants of Neider-Selters, (where it is obtained), who have drunk it all their lives, are by many degrees the healthiest and rnddiest-looking peasants in the Duchy of Nassau. For acidity in the stomach, and heartburn, Seidlitz-water is much recommended. Ginger-beer is the most refi-eshing of aU summer drinks, from -its high, close, and creamy head. A piece of anchovy will almost immediately restore the just tone of voice to any one who has become hoarse by public speaking. Coffee and green tea will be found the most efficacious anti- dote^ to intoxication, molten no sickness prevails. A dose of camphor julep is excellent. Nausea is counteracted by effer- I vescent and aromatic draughts; of the former, soda-water is the best. The Greeks used a solution of salt to counteract the effects of wine; and this is a common remedy among seafaring men to the present day; and the Romans surrounded their heads with wreaths of refreshing plants, for which we have the unclas- sical substitute of wet cloths. When Aristotle tells us that Dionysius of Syracuse remained in a state of intoxication for ' eighty days, we must suppose that he got drunk every moi'ning. To prevent thirst in hot weather, eat plenty of fresh butter at ; I breakfast: avoid drinking water as you would poison: in short, ) drink as little as possible of anything; and do not give way to I the first sensation of thirst.— Colonel Shaw’s Memoirs. ' ! A very agreeable beverage is made by mixing Seltzer-water I with Bordeaux wine, a little lemon-juice, and sugar. I* . The wholesomeness of toast and water is thus explained. ; When bread is toasted, its surface becomes converted into gum; 1 and toast and water, as it is called, is a solution of the gummy I