117 German Wines. It is rose-coloured, pleasant in flavour, and sells in its native country at about 8 sous per bottle. The favourite white wine called Chablis is grown at the small village of Chablis, about 100 miles to the south-east of Paris. ChaMis and oysters are a delicious and fashionable luncheon in the French metropolis. GERMAN WINES. The light Ehenisli and French dinner wines now in fashion are, according to Dr. Mayo, greatly inferior to good table-beer, and are much less wholesome; they are commonly drunk because they ai'e wine, by those with whom strong wines disagree. Dr. Henderson, however, recommends Rhenish wines for their diuretic effect, and for diminishing obesity. Among the Rhine wines (improperly called hock in England), the Johannisberg and Steinberg rank first, and are on an equal looting for their exquisite flavour and evanescent bouquet. Hext follow Rudesheim (Berg), Markobrunner, and Rothenberg, which possess much body and aroma. Hockheim (which grows on the banks of the Maine, not in the Rheingau,) ranks with the best of these second-class wines. Of the inferior wines, those of Erbach and Halleuheim are the best. The lighter wines are, however, apt to be hard and rather acid, as table wines. The Laubenheim and Nierstein, from the Palatinate above Mayence, and the delicately-flavoured Moselles, are much preferred to them as table wines in Germany. The best red wine in Germany is the Asmanshausen. The vine chiefly cultivated on the Rhine is called Riesling; it yields a wine of fine flavour: the Orleans grape produces a strong-bodied wine. The finest wine, the Johannisberg, grows close under the castle of that name, and partly over the cellars, the property of Prince Metternich. The grapes are allowed to remain on the vines as long as they will hold together, by which the wine gains strength in body. So precious are they, that those which fall are picked off the ground with a kind of fork made for the purpose. The wine is made in such small quantity, that it is for the most part disposed of privately, and can rarely be obtained for either love or money. Steinberger is made from a vineyard of only 108 acres, so that the supply is extremely limited. Hockheimer, or Hock, is made from a few vines which grow round the town of Hockheim, on the Mayne. Rudesheimer is also made in very small quantity, and soon all bought up on the spot. Scharr- berger and Grunhauser are called the “ Nectar of the Moselle.” The Steinberg wine, the property of the Duke of Nassau, is managed even with greater care and cost than the Johannisberg.