171 Table Anecdotes. card to dine with the Archbishop of Canterbury, at Lambeth. Careless into what hole or corner he threw his invitations, he soon lost sight of the card, and forgot it altogether. A year revolved, when, on wiping the dust from some papers he had stuck in the chimney-glass, the ai’chbishop’s invitation for a certain day in the month, (he did not think of the year an instant,) stared him full in the face; and taking it for gi-anted that it was a recent one, he di’essed himself on the appointed day, and pro- ceeded to the palace. But his diocesan was not in London, a circumstance of which, though a matter of some notoriety to tlie clergy of the diocese, he was quite unconscious; and he returned home dinnerless. Mr. C.anning’s fund of animal spirits, and the extreme excita- bility of his temperament, were such as invariably to hurry him, nolentem volentem, into the full rush and flush of conviviality. At the latter period of his life, when his health began to break, he would sit down with an evident determination to be abstinent, eat sparingly of the simplest soup, take no sauce with his fish, and mix water in his wine; but as the repartee began to sparkle, and the anecdote to circulate, his assumed caution was insensibly relaxed, he gradually gave way to temptation, and commonly ended by eating of everything, and taking wine with everybody —the very heau-ideal of an amphitiyon.— (Quarterly Heview. (Yet this is disputed by Lord Brougham, in his Sketches of Statesmen.) Dr. Parr, of smoking memory, says: “ There are certainly one or two luxuries to which I am addicted: the first is a shoulder of mutton, not under-roasted, and richly incrusted with flour and salt; the second is a plain suet-pudding; the third is a plain family plum-pudding; and the fourth, a kind of high festival dish, consists of hot boiled lobsters, with a profusion of shrimp sauce.” George III. lived like an ascetic, for fear of corpulence and gout: he ate the most simple food and very sparingly; chou- croute was one of his favourite dishes; his ordinary beverage at table was a sort of lemonade, which he dignified with the name of a cup, though a monk of La Trappe might have drunk of it without any infraction of his vow. The king usually ate so little and so rapidly, that those persons who dined with him could not satisfy their appetite, unless by continuing their meal after their sovereign had finished, which was contrary to the old etiquette. He was so sensible ot this fact, and so considerate, that when dining without the queen, he would say to his attendants, “ Don’t regard me,—take your own time.” The king rarely drank a glass of wine, and was so indifferent to its flavour or quality, that he