181 Talle Anecdotes. *‘The king understood very well how to extricate himself in all kinds of difficulties, and, with a hint to the company to avoid ceremony, stole off, and made towards his coach, which stood ready for him in Guildhall-yard. But the mayor liked his com- pany so well, and was grown so intimate, that he pursued him hastily, and catching him fast by the hand, cried out with a vehement oath and accent, ‘ Sir, you shall stay and take t’other bottle!’ The airy monarch looked kindly at him over his shoulder, and with a smile and graceful air (for I saw him at the time, and do now) repeated this line of the old song : • ‘ He that is drunk is as great as a king,’ and immediately returned back and complied with his landlord.” —Spectator, No. 462. Altogether, Charles dined nine times with the citizens. That hard-drinking was introduced from Flanders and Hol- land, and other northern countries, seems probable from the derivation of many of the expressions used in carousing. The phrase of being “ half-seas-over,” as applied to a state of drunk- enness, originated from op zee, which, in Dutch, means over sea; and Gifford informs us that it was a name given to a stupefying beer introduced into England from the Low Countries, and called op zee. An inebriating draught was also called an up see freese, from the strong Friesland beer. The word “ carouse,” according to Gifford and ISlount, is derived from the name of a large glass, called by the Danes rouse, or from the German words, gar, all, and aus—hence drink all out. “ Hob-nob,” the phrase, now only used convivially, to ask a person whether he will have a glass of drink or not, is most evi- dently a corruption of the old hab-nah, from the Saxon habban, to have, and nabban, not to have; in proof of which Shakespeare has used it to mark an alternative of another kind: “ And his incensement at the moment is so implacable, that satisfaction can he none but by pangs of death and sepulchre; hob-nob is his word; give’t or take’t.”—Twe^th Night, act iii. sc. 4. The peach (we gather from Dr. Daubeny’s Lectures on Roman husbandry) was brought from Persia, and Columella alludes to the fable of its poisonous qualities. “Could this mistake arise,” asks Dr. Daubeny, “ from a knowledge of the poisonous properties of the prussic acid existing in the kernels of the peach ?” It may be observed that a notion prevailed in Egypt, probably referring to the secret of the Psylli, that a citron eaten early in the morning was an antidote against all kinds of poison. Its juice, injected into the veins, would have a similar efiect. Blackberries, when perfectly ripe, were eaten' by the Koman^, and by the Greeks were considered a preventive of gout.