1G8 TUiUs for the Tahle. Addison used often to walk from Holland House to the 'White llorse, Kensington, to enjoy his favourite dish, a fillet of veal, his bottle, and perhaps a friend. There is a story that the pro- iligate Duke of Wharton plied him one day at table so briskly with wine, in order to make him talk, that he could not keep it on his stomach; which made his grace observe, that “ he could get wine but not wit out of him.” The White Hor.se was at the corner of “ Lord Holland’s Lane,” (no longer a thoroughfare), on the site of the present Holland-Arms Inn. Nearly opposite Holland House, in the Kensington-road, is the Adam and Eve public-house, where Sheridan, on his way to or from Holland House, regularly stopped for a dram; and there he ran up a long bill, which Lord Holland had to pa3^ Frederick William I. patronized smoking-clubs, the members being mostly generals and stafi-officers; two of them, who did rot smoke, to conform to the king’s regulation, held unlighted pipes to their mouths, and puffed and blew like capital smokers. Tlie tobacco was not good, and the king was displeased if any one brought better of his own. At seven o’clock bread, butter, and cheese were brought in, and sometimes a ham and roast veal; now and then the king treated his guests with a dish of fish and a salad, which he dressed with his own hands. Peter the Great was a gourmand of the first magnitude. While in England, on his return from a visit to Portsmouth, the Czar and his party, twenty-one in number, stopped at Godai- ming, where they ate; at breakfast, half a sheep, a quarter of lamb, ten pullets, twelve chickens, seven dozen of eggs, and salad in proportion, and drank three quarts of brandy, and six quarts of mulled wine : at dinner, five ribs of beef, weight three stone; one sheep, fifty-six pounds: three quarters of lamb; a shoulder and loin of veal boiled; eight pullets, eight rabbits; two dozen and a half of sack, and one dozen of claret. This bill of fare is preserved in Ballard’s Collection, in the Bodleian Librarj' at Oxford. Some of our own countrymen have, however, almost rivalled the Czar of Russia and his companions. At Godalmiug, and pro- bably at the same inn that Peter patronized, two noble dukes are related to have stopped, as they intended, for a few minutes, while sitting in their carriages, to eat a mutton chop, which they ibund so good that each of them devoured eighteen chops, and drank five bottles of claret. Lord Melcombe was a friend and patron of James Ralph, the dramatist, but the silly blunder of a servant had nearly caused a rupture between them. Lord Melcombe, one day, ordered his servant to go to Ralph, who lived not far from his lordship at