36 Hints for the Talle. Soyer, in. his excellent Gastronomic ^Regenerator, saj's :— For the lost few years there has been quite an alteration in the descrip- tion of the seasons for fish. Except the cod-fish, which come in September, and by strictness of rule must disappear in March, the season for all other sea-fish becomes a puzzle; but the method I follow during the season is as follows:— Crimped Gloucester salmon is plentiful in June and part of July, but it may bo procured almost all the year round. Common salmon from March to July. Salmon peale from Juno to July. Spey trout from May to July. Sturgeon, though not thought much of, is very good in June. Turbot, soles, and brill are in season all the year round. Jolm Dories depend entirely upon chance, but may be procured all tha year round for the epicure, May excepted. The original season of Yarmouth mackerel is from the 12lh of May till the end of July; now wo have Christmas mackerel; then the west of England mackerel, which are good at the beginning of April. Haddock and whiting all the year round. Skate all the winter. Smelts from the Medway are the best, and are winter fish; the Yar- mouth and Carlisle are good, but rather large; the Dulch are also very large, and lose proportionally in the estimation of the epicure. Gurnards are spring fish. Fresh herrings, from November to January. Eiver eels all the year round. Lobsters and prawns, spring and part of summer. Crabs are best in May. Barrelled oysters, from the middle of September till the end of February. Sprats were formerly said to come in on Lord Mayor’s Day (Nov. 9), but they are only good in frosty weather. Kiver-fish out of season and unwholesome, are constantlj- sold and eaten at London during March, April, and May, from the purchasers being ignorant that the above are the fencing or spawning months tor all kinds of river-fish, except trout and eels. Lish appear to be strangely underrated in England; out of upwards of 170 distinct species of good and wholesome fish in our markets, scarcely one-l'ourth are even named in cookery books. Much of this dislike of fish has arisen from its being eaten when out of season, or from being too long or carelessly kept. In Austria, the art of carrying and keeping fish is better un- aerstood than in England. Every inn has a box, containing grayling, trout, carp, or char, into which water from a spring runs; and no one thinks of carrying or sending dead fish for a dinner. The fish are fed, so that they are often in better sea.son in the tank, or stew, than when they were taken. At Admont, in Styria, attached to the monastery of that name, are ponds and