llinlsfor the Table. 84 V egetables. All vegetables do not contain equal proportions of nourishment. Thus, French beans (the seeds, the white haricoof the Continent) contain 921b. of nutritious matter in 1001b.; broad beans, 891b.; peas, 931b. Greens and turnips yield only 81b. solid nutriment in 1001b.; carrots, 14; and, in opposition to the common opinion, 1001b. of potatoes yield only 251b. of nutrition. Certain vegetables assist the stomach with some indigestible food. Such are rich and oily substances, as porl:, goose, wild Ibwl, and salmon. The malic acid in apple-sauce eaten with roast pork, the lemon juice with wild fowl, and vinegar with salmon, have thus come into common use. To assist the digestion of fried white bait, and turtle too, lemon-juice is usually added, and punch drank with them: “ the palate,” says Dr. Mayo, “ having sug- gested, and philosophy approving, the association.” The only secret of dressing vegetables green, is an open sauce- pan, plenty'of water (with salt), and fast boiling. Plenty of good vegetables, well served, is a luxury vainly hoped for at set-parties: they are made to figure in a very secondary way, except when they are considered as delicacies, which is generally before they are at the best. Excellent potatoes, smoking hot, with melted butter of the best quality, are as rare on state occasions, so served, as if they \vere of the cost of pearls. When peas, French beans, and similar productions, do not boil easily, it has usually been imputed to the coolness of the season, or to the rains. This popular notion is erroneous. The difficulty of boiling them soft arises from a superabundant quantity of gypsum imbibed during their growth. To correct this, throw a small quantity of sub-carbonate of soda into the pot along with the vegetables, the carbonic acid of which will seize upon the lime in the gypsum, and free the vegetables from its influence. Cauliflowers, kidney-beans, and other delicate vegetables, may be kept many months, by drying them, and packing them in a jar, with common salt between and over them. Vegetables m.ay also be long kept in an ice-house. POTATOES. Mealy potatoes are more nutritious than those which are waxy; as the Ibrmer contain the greatest quantity of starch, in which consists the nutriment of the potato. To ensure mealy potatoes, peel them, and put them on the fire in boiling water; when nearly done, drain them, put on them a dry cloth, cover them closely, and set them near the lure for five »»unutes.