147 Making Coffee. it is required, set the pot on the fire, and heat the coffee, hut do not let it hoil, and then pour it off gently. Dr. llafter assures us that the aroma of coffee is better extracted by cold water than by hot. For this pui-pose, he recommends that four ounces of good coffee, properly roasted and ground, be mixed into a pap, or thin paste, with cold water, and left to steep, covered closely for a night. Next day pour this pap care- fully on fine linen, placed in a glass funnel, in a bottle. A single spoonful of this very strong infusion, poured into a cup of boiling milk, will give the whole a delightful aroma. Or, one part of the infusion, and two parts of water, put on the fii’e till it just boils,, will yield delicious coffee. The strong essence should be kept in a closely-stopped bottle. Chicory in coffee is used, not for the tonic property in its hitter ingredient, but because it gives a dark colour to water, and as bitter a taste, as a great deal of coffee, which is much more expensive. The public taste gradually accommodated itself to the fraudulent mixture; it became by-and-bye even grateful to the accustomed palate; and finally a kind of favourite necessity to the lovers of hitter coffee. {Johnston.) And, by a piece of bungling legislation, the fraud became legalized, so that millions of pounds of chicory are annually imported into England. It is very erroneous and most expensive to sweeten coffee with moist or raw sugar: for, experiment has proved that half the quantity in weight of refined sugar will give more sweetness, and. the flavour of the coffee will he much more pure and delicate. In Holland, where coffee is generally drank by the humbler classes,, the sugar cannot he too flne for the boatmen on the canals to sweeten their coffee. In Portugal, coffee is always made by infusion, and is taken very strong, an ounce being used for one good-sized cup; yet, it is so cheap, that a small cup of coffee, including sugar and mUk,, may be had in a first-rate coffee-house for a penny. By the Steam-fountain Coffee-pot, every good quality of the coffee-seed is extracted, without alloy, from the unwholesome acid matter, which is, more or less, mixed with all coffee made by the common methods. At the same time, nothing is wasted in the process: a clear and pure essence is produced, small, indeed,, in quantity at first, hut of such strength that it may be ffeely diluted. A cup of coffee taken hot on an empty stomach, is a provincial remedy for indigestion. If a cup of coffee be stirred a few times, with a pod of vaniUa,. it will acquire its delicious perfumed flavour. l2