167 Table Anecdotes. bottle does come round so often.” On a similar^ occasion Sir Hercules Langreish, on being asked “ Have you finished all that port (three bottles), without assistance?” answered, “No—not quite that—I had the assistance of a bottle of Madeira.” At large dinners in the City Halls, and in the Halls of the Inns of Court, it is customary to pass huge silver goblets down the table, filled with a delicious composition immemorially termed “ sack,” consisting of sweetened and exquisitely-flavoured white wine: the butler attends its progress to replenish it, and each citizen and student is restricted to a sip. Yet, it chanced once at the Temple, that though the number present fell short of seventy, thirty-six quarts of the liquid were consumed. Sir William Aylett, a grumbling member of the Union Club, and a two-bottle man, one day observing Mr. James Smith fur- nished with half a pint of sherry, eyed his cruet with contempt, and exclaimed; “ So, I see you have got one of those d—d life- preservers !” Some people are very proud of their wine, and court your ap- probation by incessant questions. One of a party being invited by Sir Thomas Grouts to a second glass of his “ old East India,” he replied, “ one was a dose—had rather not double the Cape and, at the first glass of champagne, he inquired whether there had been a plentiful supply of gooseberries last year. Madden relates, in the Infirmities of Genius, that a baronet well known in the gay world was seized with paralysis, and found himself on his return from a convivial party, suddenly deprived of speech, and power of moving one side of his body. Either from desperation, or an impulse of mental aberration, the gentleman had a bottle of port wine brought to his bed-side, and having finished it, he turned with great composure on his side, and went to sleep. The baronet lived several years afterwards, his intellect wholly unimpaired, his speech restored, and his general health as good as ever; and he daily discussed his bottle or two of port with apparent impunity. Madame Pasta, when in England, was asked by a literary lady of high distinction whether she drank as much porter as usual: “No, mia cara, prendoadesso.”—Quar- terly Revietu. Dr. Channing, (of the United States), was one daj' paying toll, when he perceived a notice of gin, rum, tobacco, &c., on a board which bore a strong resemblance to a gravestone. “ I am glad to see,” said the doctor to the girl who received the toll, “ that jmu have been burying these things.” “ And if we had,” said the girl, “ I don’t doubt you would have gone chief mourner.”