137 Liquetirs of the Chartreuse. Liqueurs. LiQUEtTBS were invented for the use of Louis XIV. in his old age, when he could scarcely endure existence without a snccessioii of artificial stimulants: his appetite, in the prime of life, was prodigious. George IV. had a like partiality ibr liqueurs. In sickness, when the least exertion was attended with faintness, his Majesty’s usual remedy was a glass of some liqueur: he had a particular kind of cherry-brandy, which he thought to be of medical use, and to which he resorted at a late period of his life. The most famous liqueurs are made at the Grand Chartreuse. There are four varieties. The principal is the Elixir; it is sold in bottles, put up in wooden cases, turned in bottle shape, and sold at a high price. The Green Liqueur is as strong as Scotch whisky, or cura(joa, but with no flavour of orange; its aroma is apparently derived from angelica plant, thyme, and sweet balm- mint, compounded with various others. The Yellow Liqueur is neither so potent nor so sweet. The White is called also the balm of the Chartreuse. Upwards of fifty plants, seeds, and flowers are used in the fabrication of these liqueurs; the chief basis being the first shoots of the pine-tree, wormwood (or absinthe), moun- tain pinks, mint, and balm, the essentials of which are distilled and mingled with greatart inthe secret laboratory of theChartreuse. The liqueur far fait-amour, notwithstanding the attraction of its name, is no longer in repute with the ladies: they have adopted maraschino in its place. Once upon a time, when a cer- tain eminent diplomatist was asked by his voisine at a fetit- souper, for a female toast, to parallel with the maseuline one of Women and Wine, his Excellency ventured to suggest Meu and Maraschino, and the suggestion received the compliment of very general applause.—(Quarterly Review. The Russians put black currants into brandy, and the Irish steep them in whisky, as the English do cherries. The finest anisette liqueur is prepared at Bordeaux. Excellent cura^oa is made at Amsterdam, at two-thirds of the English price. Anisette, another good liqueur, is also manu- factured there. To make cura9oa, put six ounces of thin-cut Seville orange- peel into a quart bottle with a pint of genuine whisky. Cork it tightly, and let the rind infuse ten or twelve days, when take out the peel, and fill up the bottle with clarified syrup, shake it well, and let it remain for three days. Then pour a teaspoonfnl of tiie liqueur into a mortar, and mix with it a drachm of powdered alum, and the .same of carbonate of potash; pour this into the bottle.