80 Hints for the Table. through a cloth or sieve from the coagulated albumen and tht fibrin, which are then become hard and hornj', we obtain an equal weight of the most aromatic soup, of such strength as can be had even by boiling for hours from a piece of flesh; also when mixed with salt, and the other additions by which soup is usually f seasoned, and tinged somewhat darker by means of roasted onions or burnt sugar, it forms the very best soup that can be prepared from a pound of flesh.” And Liebig calls the “ essence of meat,” that which is simply the very strongest soup, subse- quently concentrated by evaporation, till on cooling it acquires a consistence nearly like that of treacle. It does not form a jelly, because pure soup contains no gelatine, and the gelatine is not wanted. If, however, the boiling with the meat be continued longer gelatine is dissolved, and a jelly formed on cooling in the soup, which, in spite of the jelly, is no better than that which does not gelatinize. The essence of meat is now made and pre- served in tins. It is, in fact, beef tea of astounding strength. Liebig observes, it might be made at a very small cost in Brazil and in Australia, where whole herds are slaughtered for the hides and tallow alone. It is onl}’- necessary to add the due pro- portion of hot water, with salt and any other seasoning that may be desired, and an admirable nutritious soup is made at a minute’s notice. Spring soup, or Julienne, is the proper thing in the ordinary run of houses in this country, where varieties of the simple fotage are unknown. Spring soup, from Birch’s, in Cornhill, is particularly recommended in the season, as being quite delicious. Dr. Hunter observes of a rich vegetable soup with meat, that it is only proper for those who do not stand in fear of gouty shoes and a pair of crutches. CaiTot soup (or the French Soup a I’Aurore), can only he made in perfection when the carrots are newj old carrots will not answer. It is very wholesome and medicinally antiscorbutic. The elegant mode of cutting vegetables and herbs to be eaten in soups, is in fillets thus : Vermicelli should be broken, and then blanched in boiling water to take off the taste of dust, before it is put into soups. If it be not broken it will be in long pieces, and unpleasant to serve. It should not be allowed to remain too long in soup, else it will become a paste; the time should not exceed fifteen minutes. The pet potage of George III., was a rich vermicelli soup, with a few very green chervil leaves in it; and, with his more epicurean successor, it was equally a favourite. It was first served from the kitchen at Windsor.