The Art of Dining. 19 world.—{Quarterly Review.) To support this assertion, wo have the unqualifiecl admission of Ude : “ I will venture to affirm, that cookery in England, when well done, is superior to that in any country in the world.” The class of cookery to which Udo: refers is Anglo-French, or English relieved by French. The golden rule for the art of giving dinners is—let all men’s- dinners be according to their means. In order to have a table regularly served, two points are im- portant ; one of which belongs to the cook, and the other to the housekeeper. The duty of tire cook is to dress the dinner well, and to dish it up elegantly. The housekeeper’s duty, among other things, is to make out the bill of fare, and to direct the dishes to be so placed upon the table as to accord with each other, thereby forming a picture that, by pleasing the eye, may whet the appetite; and here a quick eye, to measure distances, and a correct distributive taste, are requisite. Dr. King, in his Art of Cookery, addressed to Dr. Martin Luster, thus humorously touches upon the subject:— Ingenious Lister, were a picture drawn With Cynthia’s face, but with a neck of brawn; "With wings of turkey, and with feet of calf. Though drawn by Kncller, it would make you laugh. Such IS (good sh) the figure of a feast. By some rich farmer’s wife and sister drest: "WTiich, were it not for plenty and for steam. Might be resembled to a sick man’s dream,— "Where all ideas huddling run so fast, That syllabubs come first, and soups the last. Mr. "Walker has written a series of papers full of information on the Art of Dining. One of his objections to the present arrangement of a dinner-table, is forcibly illustrated as fol- lows:—“See a small party with a dish offish at each end of the table, and four silver covers unmeaningly starving at the • sides, wffiilst everything pertaining to the fish comes, even witk- the best attendance, provokingly lagging, one thing after another, so that contentment is out of the question, and all this is done under the pretence that it is the most convenient plan! This is an utter fallacy. The only convenient plan is, to have every thing actually upon the table that is wanted at the same time,, and nothing else: as, for example, for a party of eight, turbot and salmon, with doubles of each of the adjuncts, lobster-sauce, cucumbers, young potatoes, cayenne, and chili vinegar; and let the guests assist one another, which, wuth such an arrangement,, they could do with perfect ease.” Among the practices which interfere with comfort, are, attendants handing round vegetables,, and helping wine to the company. c 2