Claret.—Biwguncly. 115 and raspberries. Latour and Lafitte, the former the stronger wine, are of dark violet colour, and possess a fine violet perfume and taste. Claret is chiefly shipped at Bordeaux, and is the produce of the neighbouring country. The fii’st growths, those of Chateau- Margaux, Lafitte, Latour, and Haut Brion, are from the dis- trict of Medoc, on the left bank of the river Garonne, below the city. None of the very best quality of the red wines of the Borde- lais (country round Bordeaux), known in England as claret, is- exported pure: a bottle of the best Chateau-Margaux, or Haut Brion, being a rarity hardly to be procured in Bordeaux itself, at the rate of six or seven francs. For export, the secondary growths at Medoc are mingled with the rough Palus. The Bordelais are the safest wines for daily use, as they are among the most perfect of the light wines, and do not easily excite intoxication. They have been accused of producing th& gout, but without reason. Persons who drench themselves with madeii'a, port, &c., and indulge in occasional debauches of claret,, may, indeed, be visited in that way; because a transition from the strong, branched wines to the lighter is always followed by a derangement of the digestive organs. Claret was formerly drunk in great quantities in Edinburgh; and was cheap, from its being admitted into the port of Leith on Spanish instead of French duties, as at present. The unmixed, unadulterated Bordeaux wines, not many re- moves from that known throughout France as vin ordinaire,, vin du pays, or the common wine of the country, ai*e gradually becoming favourites in England. The palate of an Englishman, however, is not immediately reconciled to this simple beverage; but, if a man wishes to get up in the morning with a clean tongue and a clear head, to avoid disease, and yet to enjoy liis glass, let him drink the pure Bordeaux wine of la belle France. If brought to table cool, in the summer, it is a most refreshing beverage, and strong enough for any one who wishes to retain his reason. The price in France does not exceed two francs the. bottle.—Nimrod, in Fraser’s Magazine. BUBGUNDY Is stronger than the ordinary clarets, possesses a powerful aroma,, and a delicious and lasting flavour; but, as it arrives in England, it is usually brandied, which is most injurious to its flavour and smell. So delicate is Burgundy, that it is said that if two wines of superior qualities are mixed together, the bouquet and taste are entirely changed. The year 1858 proved for Burgundy one of the finest of the I 2