Champagnes. 113 in cases of weak digestion, is one of the safest wines that can be drunk. Its intoxicating effects are rapid, but exceedingly tran- sient, and depend partly upon the carbonic acid, which is evolved from it, and partly upon the alcohol, which is suspended in this gas, being applied rapidly and extensively to a large surftice of the stomach.—M.acnisli. CHAMPAGNES. Champagne was pronounced by a verdict of the faculty of Paris, in 1778, to be the finest of all wines. The first quality may be kept from ten to twenty years in a temperature of 54 degrees Fahrenheit, which is uniformly that maintained in the vaults of M. Moet, at Epernay. In travelling through the great plain of Champagne, the tra- veller sees nothing that serves to connect that province with the wines of which he has heard so much. Plains, unless in hot countries, produce only indifferent wine. Coloured champagne, which is commonly thought superior, is made after the white, which is, therefore, the most pure. The tbrraer kinds are manufactm-ed chiefly for the British market. The idea that Champagne is apt to occasion gout, seems to be contradicted by the infrequency of that disorder in the province where it is made; but, it is generally admitted to be prejudicial to those habits in which that disorder is already formed, espe- cially if it has originated from addiction to strong liquors.— Henderson. The prevalent notion that a glass of champagne cannot be too quickly swallowed, is erroneous; and it is no bad test of the quality ot champagne to have it exposed, for some hours, in a wine-glass, when, if originally of the highest order, it will be found to have lost its carbonic acid, hut entirely to retain its body and flavour, which had before been concealed by its effervescence. Champagne should, therefore, not be drunk till this active effer- vescence is over, by those who would relish the above character- istic quality.—Brande. Still champagne is often mistaken by its qualities: it is a strong cheating wine, though commonly thought to be weak and cooling, and it is very deceitful in these respects to the palate. AVhen of superior quality, it has the singular aromatic flavour of champagne in an eminent degree; a flavour which also exists, but is concealed by carbonic acid, in the sparkling wine. Champagne, said Curran, makes a runaway rap at a man’s head. It should never be stinted, for nothing contributes more to the success of a dinner. One great advantage is, that the ladies are commonly tempted to take an extra glass or two. Champagne is seldom drunk pure in England; the Eussians 1