120 Tlints for the Table. slightly acid taste, and is unwholesome, having an increased tendency to produce gout. Lord Palmerston, (who, when in office, has been accustomed to employ his pleasantries &sparaton7ieJ'res for troublesome visitors,) one day related the following anecdote to a deputation of gentle- men who waited upon him to urge the reduction of the wine duties. Eeferring to the question of adulterations, “ I remember,” said his lordship, “ my grandfather. Lord Pembroke, when he placed wine before his guests, said: ‘ There, gentlemen, is my cham- pagne, my claret, &c. I am no great judge, and I give you this on the authority of my wine-merchant; but I can answer for my port, for I made it myself.’ I still have his receipt, which I look on as a curiosity;'but I confess I have never ventured to tr}' it.” In 1858, there was an interesting sale of port wine at Prospect Hill, near Reading. The cliief attraction was the old vintage port of all the most celebrated years up to 1820, and including that year, of such wondrous renown among connoisseurs. A bin of the vintage of 1816, bottled in 1818, in ad- mirable preservation, although a little past its best, sold at eight and nino guineas per dozen. The nest bin, of the vintage of 1812, bottled in 1815, full of colour, in perfect preservation, fairly without a fault, showing both firmness, delicacy, and high bouquet, was sold at 11 guineas and 12). per dozen. A small bin of the vintage of 1804, which fully supported its long-established renown, stUl possessing fine colour and high bouquet; delicate, dry, but full of flavour, without symptom of decay, put beyond all doubt or difi'erence of opinion whether choice Portugal red ivine will endure a very long keeping better than any other red wine, and was sold at 11 to 12 guineas the dozen. Following this came three bins of the vintage of 1820; each was a rare example—different in style, but all of unexception- able quality; it is indeed remarkable that among port wines of these ancient dates so few decayed or even impaired wines are found, and this seems to attest their general purity. Of these three Kopke’s Boriz took the lead, containing all the vigour of youth, shoiving substance, fruit, the highest quality, and remarkable character. For many tastes, however, the other two are equally fine—one for its deep colour and dryness, wrtli great character; the other for its firmness and concentration of flavour, ivithout hardness or heat. The prices of these ranged from 11 guineas to 14/. 10s. per dozen, and became in most instances the property of the wine trade. It is a fallac}' to suppose that such a thing exists as what is termed “pure port wine,”—that is, without an admixture of brandy. On the first arrival of each pipe of wine at Villa Nova, a certain quantity of this spirit is immediately added; for with- out it the wine would not keep.—Mr. Paget, in the Times, Nov. 24, 1858. The failure in the crop of Portuguese wines in 1857 was very calamitous, and, of course, prices rose accordingly. The produce in the Alto Douro district, ordinarily 100,000 pipes a-year, fell off to 15,000. The price of a pipe of port wine from the farmer