69 Fowls.—Geese. FOWLS. Choose fowls with pale flesh-coloured or white legs: for delicacy of flesh, the game breed, the Spanish, and the Doidcing are most esteemed. White chickens are the best to fatten for the table. The Dorking fowls have not, however, uniformly five claws, as is supposed, that number being accidental; they are large, and have rather yellow than white flesh. For a large dinner, when fowls are very dear, use the fillets for the first-course dishes; and make the soup with the legs only, when it will be as good but not quite so white as if made with the fillets. A good hen, well tended, will lay upwards of 140 eggs per annum, and also rear one or two broods of chickens. Fricassee of chicken may be given as one of the dishes for a trial dinner; as very few cooks are able to make a good fricassee. IJde considers this dish the most wholesome and the least expen- .sive of any, as it requires only water to make it well. Sir Humphry Davy gives us two culinary hints from a Nor- wegian dinner'—roast your fowls with plenty of parsley in tlieir bellies; place sliced cucumbers, if j'ou wish them to be whole- some, in salt, which makes them tender, and abstracts their un- wholesome juice, which separates in large quantities. GOOSE.—SWAN. Goose ranks much higher in England than elsewhere: it is lield in little honour, except for its liver, by the French. The flesh of the New Holland coreopsis is much more delicate than that of our goose; and it promises to become -a valuable acquisition to our poultry-yard. The fattening of geese is a good speculation at Strasbourg. The livers sometimes weigh from 10 to 12 ounces, and sell at from 'A to 5 fi-ancs each, for the celebrated pdth: the fat is a sub- stitute for butter, and the flesh is served at table, and, although som3what tough, it is nutritious; and the feathers and quills are much sought after. The young of the Solan goose was formerly a favourite dish with the North Britons. Pennant observes: “ During the season, they are constantly brought from the Bass Isle to Edinburgh, where they are sold roasted, and served up as a whet.” A Canadiau goose, when fat, weighs about nine pounds, and is the dail}' ration for one of the Hudson Bay Company’s servants throughout the season: it is reckoned equivalent to two snow geese, or three ducks, or 81b. buffalo and morse meat, or two pounds of pemmican, or a pint of maize and 4 oz. suet. The flesh of the wild swan is considered by the Indians and