Hints for the Table. 82 lu this country, only a few dishes are curried; whereas all meats and most kinds of fish make good curries. In preparing rice for currie, be careful not to touch it with the fingers, or a spoon. A spoonful of the cocoa-nut kernel, pounded, gives a very delicate flavour to a currie of chicken. In the East Indies, the Burdwan is frequently introduced when the appetite begins to flag, after eating heartily of two courses: and, being often dressed by the master or mistress in the presence of the company, it is generally much esteemed. When this stew is dressed on a small chafing-dish in the room where the company dine, it sends forth such a savoury smell, that it reminds us of what Eve felt when the apple was presented to her, during her disturbed dream:— The pleasant savoury smell So quickened appetite, that I, methought. Could not but taste it.—Milton. Of Cayenne pepper there are several sorts, made from the cap- sicum, an annual plant, and a native of both the Indies. Some persons prepare their own pepper, with a view to obtain it genuine, from the capsicums grown in this country j but the capsicum frutescens affords, when dried and powdered, the finest Cayenne-pepper. The difficulty of obtaining it genuine in England wUl not be matter of surprise, when the reader learns that even the Cayenne sold in Jamaica is prepared from several sorts of red capsicums, mixed with capsicum frutescens; but they are all much inferior in pungency and aromatic flavour; and per- sons who would have it genuine, are obliged to prepare it in them own families. It is called Cayenne-pepper, from its being the most noted production of the island of that name, in French Guiana; though it is also produced elsewhere. The relative value of black and white pepper is but imperfectly understood. The former is decidedly the best: white pepper is of two sorts, common and genuine: the former is made by blanching the grains of the common black pepper, by steeping them for a while in water, and then gently rubbing them, so as to remove the dark outer coat. It is milder than the other, and much prized by the Chinese; but very little is imported into England. “ Genuine” white pepper is merely the Sbghted or imperfect grains: picked from among the heaps of black pepper. It is, of course, very inferior. Pepper is eaten throughout the civilized world; but more in hot than in cold countries. In Asia, where the stomach is weak- ened by excessive perspfration, produced by the heat of the climate, by a humid atmosphere, and by a too much vegetable diet, pepper is employed as a powerful stimulant. Thus, in a medical point of