Potatoes ill Ireland. 85 A well dressed potato has been fixed upon as a tost of the merits of a cook. At the meeting of a club committee, specially called for the selection of a cook, the first question put to the ciindidates was, “ Can you boil a potato ?” In Prussia, potatoes are frequently served in six different forms: the bread is made from them; the soup is thickened with tliem; there lU’e fried potatoes, potato salad, and potato dump- lings ; to which may be added potato cheese, which, by the by, is one of the best preparations; it will keep many years. Potatoes are now mostly served at good tables in British India. In Ireland this root is cooked so that it may have, as they call it, a bone in it; that is, that the middle of it should not be quite c<;oked. They nvo dressed thus:—Put a gallon of water with two ounces of salt in a large iron pot, boil for about ten minutes, or until the skin is loose, pour the water out of the pot, put a dry cloth on the top of the potatoes, and place it on the side of the fire without water for about twenty minutes, and serve. In Ireland turf is the principal article of fuel, which is burnt on the flat hearth; a little of it is generally scraped up round the pot so as to keep a gradual heat; by this plan the potato is both boiled and baked. Even in those families where such a common art of civilized life as cooking ought to have made some progress, the only improvement they have' upon this plan is, that they leave the potatoes m the dry pot longer, by wliieh they lose the botie. They are also served up with the skins (jackets) on, and a small plate is placed by the side of each guest.—Soyer. Professor Mulder, who thoroughly investigated the potato, solemnly denounces it as an article of food, and says it is the “ cause of the moral and physical degeneration of the nations that use -it.” CABBAGE, KALE, &C. By boiling the cabbage we can extract the greater part of that which is disagreeable to the taste, and thus convert it into a palatable food, without sensibly diminishing its nutritious quality, which is 33 per cent, of gluten. When eaten frequently, and in large quantities, like nearly all food rich in gluten, cabbage has a binding tendency upon the system: hence the propriety of eating cabbage with fat and oily food. Bacon and greens, like pork and pease-pudding, is a conjunction of viands which does not owe its popularity either to old habit or to the mere taste of the epicure. It is in reality an admixture which constitutional experience has prescribed as better fitted to the after comfort of the alimentary canal of every healthy individual than either kind of Ibod eaten alone.—Johnston. Vegetable marrow is good in every stage of its growth: when young, fried in butter; when hall-grown, plainly boiled, or stewed, with sauce ; and when full-grown, in pies. When boiled and cut into dice, it makes an elegant garnish, alternately with dice of young carrots, for boiled fowls.