ITniU for the Table. 164 begins to be deserted; wherefore I adjourn to the dining-room, and gravely looking over the bill of fare, exclaim to the waiter, “ JTaunch of mutton and apple-tart!’ These viands despatched, with the accompany- ing liquids and water, I mount upward to the library, take a hook and my seat in the arm-chair, and read till nine. Then call for a cup of coffee and a biscuit, resuming my book till eleven; afterwards return home to bed.—Comic Miscellanies, Table Anecdotes. An amiable enthusiast, a worshipper of nature after the manner of Rou.sseau, being melted into feelings of universal philanthropy by the softness and serenity of a spring morning, resolved, that for that day at least, no injured animal should pollute his board; and, having recorded his vow, he walked six miles to a hamlet famous for fish dinners, where, without an idea of breaking his sentimental engagement, he regaled himself on a small matter of crimped cod and oyster-sauce. This reminds one of a harmless piece of quizzing in the Quarterly Beview,—that although the Pythagorean Sir Bichard Phillips would not eat animal food, he was addicted to gravy over his potatoes. The late Lord Grenville once remarked, that he was always glad to meet a law3'er at a dinner party, because he then felt sure that som(} good topic or other would be rationally discussed. What a luxury is a properly warmed room. Francis Emperor of Austria, one day observed that he believed it required as much talent to warm a room as to govern a kingdom. Some one remarked of a fire in the room, that it has one emi- nent advantage ; it gives you a motive for selecting and remain- ing in one part of it. It is the same with a dinner,—it takes you into societj'', and keeps you there. Bousseau, who felt the irksomeness of meeting for conversation in society without an object, where this resource was wanting, was used to take a knitting-needle and a ball of cotton, to occup}’^ and amuse himself with. The dinner-table does this for that cast of temperament which belongs to the shy and fidgett}'. The banquet temporarily remedies his constitutional defects.—Mayo. Theodore Hook, in his Gilbert describes an odd dinner of which he partook in the West of England. The soup was a nice sort of veal broth; at the bottom of the table was a roast loin of veal; at the top, half a calf’s head; there were four entrees—veal patties, veal collops, calf's brains, and calf’s tongue. One of the guests, who hated veal, apparently waited i'or the second course, when the fair hostess apologized: “We have no second coui’se; the fact is, we killed a calf the day before