Hints for the Table. 54. to January ; and of natives, from October to March. Tlie con- sumption is said to be greatest during the hottest months, after the commencement of the oyster season: the wanner the weather, the more oysters are consumed. Oysters of good repute are fished in the neighbourhood ot tlie Channel Islands, those on the Jersey bank being of large size. The best Scottish Oysters are procured near Burntisland, opposite Portobello, and at Pres- tonpans. The Oysters of Laxey, off the Isle of Man, are fine and well-flavoured. The Irish coasts produce Oysters in abundance, and of good quality. In the west, the most famous are Burton Bindon’s oysters, which are highly estimated in Dublin. The most renowned of the Irish Oyster fisheries is, however, that of Carlingford. To fatten Oysters, place them on their fiat sides in a pan or tub, which fill to the brim with water; if fresh, add a handful of salt. The water should be changed once a day, and the oysters should be fed by a handful of flour, barley-meal, or oatmeal being thrown into the water; to which may be added the same quantity ■ of wheaten-bran: in five or six days they will be perfectly fattened, and fit to eat. In one of Swift’s Letters, we find the following recipe for boil- ing oysters:—Take four oysters, wash them clean, that is, wash their shells clean; then put your o}’sters into an earthen pot with their hollow sides down, then put this pot covered into a great kettle with water, and so let them boil. Your oysters ai'e thus boiled in their own liquor, and not mixed with water. There is no place in the world (says Charles Mackay, in his very interesting Letters from the United States,) where there are such fine Oysters as in New York:—they are Fine in flavour, and of a size unparalleled in the oyster-beds of "Whit- stable, Ostend, or the Eocher de Cancale. Nor has the gift of oysters been bestowed upon an ungrateful people. If one may judge from appear- jinces, the dehcacy is highly rehshed and esteemed by ^ classes, from the millionaire in the Fifth Avenue to the boy in the Bowery and the German •and Irish emigprants in their own peculiar quarters of the city, which (soit dit en passant) seem to monopolize all the tilth to he found in Manhattan. In walking up Broadway by day or by night—but more especially by night—the stranger cannot but be struck by the great number of “ Oyster Saloons,” “Oyster and Coffee Saloons,” and “Oyster and Lager Beer Saloons” that solicit him at every turn to stop and taste. These saloons— many of them very handsomely htted up—arc, like the drinking saloons in •Germany, situated in vardts or cellars, with steps from the street; but, unlike their German models, they often form them in imderground stories of stately commercial palaces of granite, brown stone, iron, and white marble. In these palaces, as in the hotels, oysters are to be had at all hours, either from the shell, as they are commonly eaten in England, or ■cooked in twenty—or, for aU I know to the contrary, in forty or a hundred—different ways. Oysters’ pickled, stewed, baked, roasted, fined, •and scolloped; oysters made into soups, patties, and puddings; oysters