10 Hints for the Table. Lright.spavlding hard waters which gush out in frequent springs from our chalk or other limestone rocks, are relished to drink, not merely because they are grateful to the eye, but because there is something exhilarating in the excess of carbonic acid which they contain and give off as they pass through the warm mouth and throat; and because the lime they hold in solution removes acid matters from the stomach, and thus acts as a grateful medicine to the system. To abandon the use of such a water, and to drink daily in its stead one entirely free I'rom mineral matter, so far from improving, may generally injure, the individual or local health.—Chemistry of Common Life. We find these very sensible remarks on the efiects of Water- drinking, in that clever work. The Doctor:— I am decidedly opposed to the indiscriminate drinking of large quanti- ties of cold water. One cannot understand in what manner these large imhihitions are to operate so as to be useful in the animal economy. AVe know precisely what becomes of the water soon after entering the stomach; wo can trace exactly what course all this water must take—what channels it must traverse—between its entrance and its exit. We are perfectly well acquainted with certain physiological effects produced by it after it has been received into the system. It dilutes the blood, it lowers the temperature, and, therefore, diminishes the vital power of the stomach ; it puts certain systems of capillary blood-vessels on the stretch, to the great danger of bursting, and it over-taxes the kidneys. I have seen two very had cases which were fairly attributable to the excessive chinking of water. Thus, then, it seems there are certain well-understood and very obvious injmies which the large imbibition of water caimot fail to inflict, while the supposed benefits to accrue from it are altogether mj'stical, problematical, unintelligible. The quantity of water which each person should ch’ink dm'ing the day must always depend on his own feelings. He may always drink when the doing so is agreeable to his sensations; when it is repulsive, never. EEMEDIES FOE INDIGESTION. There is a great difference between bitters and tonics. Where weakness proceeds from an excess of irritability, there bitters act beneficially; because aU bitters are poisons, and operate by stilling, and depressing, and lethargizing the irritability.. But, where weakness proceeds from the opposite cause of relaxation, there tonics ai’e good; because they brace up and tighten the loosened string. Bracing is a correct metaphor. Bark goes near to be a combination of a bitter and a tonic; but no per- fect medical combination of the two properties is yet known. —Coleridge. The acidity of the stomach, and other symptoms of indiges- tion which follow occasional indulgence in wine, may, to a great extent, be prevented by a dose of magnesia at bed-time.