158 Tlitits for the Table. salutations, handed to them the following bill:—For brede, 12d.; ale, 3s. 4d.; wyne, lOd.; two leynes moton, 8d.; maribones, 6d.; powdred beef, 6d.; two capons, 2s.; two geese, 14d.; fiveconyes, 15d.; one legge moton, five pounds’ weight, 4d.; six plovers, ISd.; six pegions, 5d.; two dozen larkes, 12d.; salt and sauce, 6d.; buter and eggs, lOd.; wardens and quynces, 12d.; herbes. Id.; spices, 2s. 4d.; floure, 4d.; white cuppes and cruses, Gd.; which gives exactly one pound sterling as the total e.xpense. The Dinner in Chiildhall on Lord Mayor's Day is a mag- nificent spectacle: the Lord Mayor and his distinguished guests advance to the banquet by sound of trumpet: and the superb dresses and official costumes of many of the company (about 1200), with the display of costly plate, is very striking. The Hall is divided: at the upper, or hustings tables, the courses are served hot; at the lower tables the turtle only is hot. The baron of beef is brought in procession from the kitchen into the Hall in the morning, and being placed upon a pedestal, at night is cut up by “ the City carver.” The Kitchen, wherein the dinner is di’essed, is a vast apartment; the principal range is 16 feet long, and 7 feet high, and a baron of beef (3 f*wt.) is roasted by gas. There are 20 cooks, besides helpers; some 40 turtles are slaughtered for 250 tureens of soup; and the serving of the dinner requires about 200 persons, and 8000 plate changes. Next morning the fi'agments of the Great Feast are doled out at the kitchen gate to the City poor.—Curiosities of London. The Roxburghe Club claims its foundation from the sale of the library of the late John Duke of Roxburghe, in 1812, which extended to forty-one days Ibllowing, with a supplementary cata- logue beginning Monday, July 13, with the exception of Sun- days. Some few days before the sale, the Rev. T. F. Dibdin, who claimed the title of founder of the club, suggested the hold- ing of a convivial meeting at the St. Alban’s Tavern after the sale of June 17th, upon which day was to be sold the rarest lot, “ II Decamerone di Boccaccio,” which produced 2260Z. The invitation ran thus:—“ The honour of your company is requested, to dine with the Roxburghe dinner, on Wednesday, the 17th instant.” At the first dinner the number of members was limited to twenty-four, which at the second dinner was extended to thirty-one. The president of this club was Lord Spencer: among the most celebrated members were the Duke of Devonshire, the THE EOXBHEGHE CLUB DINNEES.