The Dessert. lOS To render cider fine and mellow, suspend two or three pairs of calves’ feet, either raw or boiled, in each hogshead, through the bunghole. This mellowness is at present badly imitated by the use of brimstone, which gives an unpleasant smatch to the cider. Or, a pint of mustard-seed put into each hogshead will prevent the cider becoming hard, and render one racking sufficient. Great quantities of perry are made in Hei'efordshire, for mixing with new port wine. The Teinton squash pear produces perry of the very highest quality, something approaching in colour and briskness to champagne, for which samples of it haver- been sold. The Dessert. Who, enjoying the rich productions of our present state of horti- culture, can recur without wonder to the tables of onr ancestors ? They knew absolutely nothing of vegetables in a culinary sense. ’Tis curious to reflect, that at the vast baronial feasts, in the days of the Plantagenets and Tudors, where we read of such onslaught of beeves, muttons, hogs, fowls, and fish, the courtly knights and beauteous dames had no other vegetable save bread—not even a potato ? They carved at the meal with their gloves of steel. And drank the red-wine through the helmet barr’d. And, when the cloth was drawn, they had scarce an apple to give zest to their wine. We read of roasted crabs; and, mayhap, they had baked acorns and pignuts—Caliban’s dainties. Now, we have wholesome vegetables almost for nothing, and, thanks to Mr. Knight, pine-apples for a trifle.—Dovaston. Forced fruits, which are obtained at a period when there is little light, cannot be compared with those which are matmed in the full blaze of a summer’s sun; hence, melons grown in frames covered with mats, and carefully excluded from the influence of that solar light which is indispensable to them, have, whatever may be their external beauty, none of that luscious flavour which the melon, when well cultivated, possesses in so eminent a degree.—Lindley. The advantage of allowing ripe fruit to remain on the trees is not merely its production late in the season; for, if ripe goose- ben-ies or currants be permitted to hang on the bush, additional saccharine matter seems to be elaborated, watery particles evaporate, and the fruit becomes much sweeter. In the south of Italy, bunches of grapes are hung from the ceiling of rooms, and in out-sheds ; when the taste acquired is sweeter than before, and the flavour ol’ the raisin predominates. Fruits of all kinds may be dried and kept a year or two, with-