5 So^er a la Liehig. uiien'ing guidB, and by tli6 sense of taste which protects tho iiealth, ^110 experienced cook, with respect to the choice, the admixture, and the preparation of food, has made acquisitions surpassing all that chemical and physiological science have done in regard to the doctrine or theory of nutrition. “In soup and meat sauces he imitates the gastric juices, and by the cheese, which closes the banquet, he assists the action of the dissolved epithelium (fine inner lining), which, with the swallowed saliva, forms rennet of the stomach. The table sup- plied with dishes appears to the observer like a machine, the parts of which are harmoniously fitted together, and so arranged, that when brought into action, a maximum of effect may be obtained by means of them. The able culinary artist accom- panies the blood, making articles with those which promote the process of solution and re-solution into blood in due proportion; he avoids all kinds of unnecessary stimuli, such as do not act in re- storing the equilibrium; and he provides the due nourishment for the child as well as the old man, as well as for both sexes.” Here is Soyer discussing a la Liebig:—“ From infancy to old age the human race must be coutinuall}^ imbibing elements of formation or reparation, even from the lime in the mother’s milk, which forms the bones, to the osmazome extracted fi’om animal matters, which creates a more lively circulation of the blood when it becomes sluggish and dull in old age. Each period, occupation, and station in life requii'es different substances of reparation, with which we ought to make ourselves intimately acquainted. Amongst the first, and that most generally in use with man, is the ox, the principal nourishment of which consists in the osma- zome, which is that liquid part of the meat that is extracted by water at blood-heat. It is this which is the foundation and flavour of all soups, which gives the flavour to all meats, and which, on becoming candied by heat, forms the crust of roast meats. The osmazome is found principally in all adult animals having a dark flesh, and to a very small extent in those having a white flesh; or even in the white flesh of fowls, but in their bucks and legs, in which parts lies their principal flavour. The bones of the ox contain gelatine and phosphate of lime. The gelatine is also found in the muscles and other cartilaginous parts of the animal: it is extracted by boiling water, and coagu- lates at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere; it is the foundation of all jellies, hlanc manges, and other similar prepara- tions. The albumen is also found in the flesh, and congeals as soon as the heat rises beyond that of the blood; it is this which is the scum on the pot when the meat is boiling.”