The Mutriator. 125 tered—as for example in the wine of Bordeaux—to bo preservable in its own simple purity for half a century, we must aver that Wine is also a very wonderful result of art. Guidance in choice of wine by means of written instruction, would, we fear, be tedious and unprofitable. Experience teaches in this, as in all matters mundane. Nor is it given to every man to be a “ good judge ” of wine. Therefore, as the stomach de- serves to be considered equally with the palate, and as in choos- ing wine there is great liability to error, it is often advisable to defer to tbe judgment of those who are qualified to select. Yet we may perhaps, with advantage, make one or two general obser- vations on this point. It is not matter of course that all wine of high price is good, nor the contrary. Inexpensive wine may be good; costly wine may be bad. Again, wine that is agree- able to the palate may be noxious to the stomach, though it rarely happens that wine unpleasant to taste is salutary. The art of choosing wine is, then, to distinguish that which, though uncostly, is good ; which whilst palatable is wholesome; wliich, though high-priced, is also good, and worth the money. The word “ good,” as applied to wine, has meanings multiform, and somewhat involved. Eor, though when we say impressively that wine is “ good,” we mean good to drink, including whole- someness with other desirable qualities—yet we may say, in some instances with perfect correctness, that wine is “ good, but not fit to drink.” 'I'he latter phrase describes much wine that is met •with—a state attributable to want of skill in the making and management of the wine. Thus, neither high price, nor low price, nor pleasantness to the taste, can unerringly' direct us in the choice of good wine. Frequently (especially two or three years after a favourable vintage) wine of small price is “good but this requires the practised palate to determine. The deside- ratum then in the choice of wine is, at whatever price, to have it good. Moreovei’, in discoursing of wine, we have to speak of “ con- dition.” It is not always easy (as we have shown) to get good wine, but the difficulty increases when likewise we require good wine in perfect condition. And yet how should we be satisfied with less ? The better the wine, the greater the loss if it be spoiled or deterio- rated ; but whatever the degree in quality, there is a state of it (we mean after it has been sold for consumption) in which it will not be fit for drinking. “ Condition,” then, has to be referred to under two heads: 1st, Chemical, that of health as to fermenta- tion ; 2nd, Mechanical, that of brightness, by the absence of any feculent matter in suspension. The first is very much the affair of the Wine-merchant, since it should bo his study to correct such disorder in wine, whether accidental or constitutional. This