Tort Wines. 119 leading restaurants at Paris, where it is sold at the rate of 2 or 3 francs a glass. This, however, is only an imitation of Cyprus wine, and the mode of preparing it is thus given in the Biblio- t/ieque Pki/sico-JEconomique. To 10 quarts of syrup of elder- berries, add 80 pints of water, 2 oz. ginger, 2 oz. cloves, and boil together; add a few bruised grapes, and strain. Constantia is universally esteemed for its high flavour and luscious quality. The only vineyard at the Cape which yields it is of small dimensions, and the produce, both white and red, does not exceed from 8000 to 12,000 gallons annually. PORT. Good port wine, duly kept, is, when taken in moderation, one of the most wholesome of vinous liquors: it strengthens the muscular system, assists the digestive powers, accelerates the circulation, exhilarates the spirits, and sharpens the mental energies: in excess, it is, perhaps, the most mischievous of wines, and most likely to produce those permanent derangements of the digestive organs which follow the habitual use of distilled spirits.—Brande. There is one criterion of fine and old port, which the writer never knew fail, although it may by an accident. The cork, when it has dried, that is to say, an hour after it has been drawn, should be covered on its under surface, and part of its cylindrical surface with crystals of tartar.—Mayo’s Philosophy of Living. A vast quantity of spurious port wine is imported into this country from the Channel Islands. Thus, during eight years, there were but 210 pipes of wine exported from Oporto to the Channel Islands, whilst the wines imported into London from the Channel Islands were 2072 pipes. It, therefore, ap- pears clear that cheap French wines are greatly substituted for port wine. So late as Queen Anne’s reign, our importation of port wine was very small: it was then customary in London, upon the meeting of two friends, for the one to invite the other to a tavern to drink; or, in a vulgar phrase, “ to crack a bottle of claret dashed with portthus intimating the comparative rarity of the latter wine. Sir John Sinclair relates, in his Code of Health, that a Mr. Vanhorn, in the space of twenty-three years, drank 36,688 bottles, or 59 pipes of port wine. His usual daily quota was four bottles! In the course of his life he resembled more a cellar than a man: although there are many cellars that never con- tained what this man’s stomach, first and last, must have done— namely, 59 pipes of port wine. Port wine, when tawny, loses its astringency, acquires a