173 Table Anecdotes. fofiee was sewed, not more than forty-three or four minutes elapsed. They were then bowed out. With Napoleon, the moment appetite was felt, it was necessary that it should be satisfied; and his establishment was so arranged, that in all places, and at all hours, chicken, cutlets, and coffee, might be forthcoming at a word. “ This habit of eating fast and care- lessly (it is observed in the Quarterly Review), is supposed to have paralysed Napoleon on two of the most critical occasions of his life,—the battles of Borodino and Leipsic, which he might have converted into decisive and influential victories by pushing his advantages as he was wont. On each of these occasions, he is known to have been suffering from indigestion. On the third day of Dresden, too, the German novelist, Hoffman, who was present in the town, asserts that the emperor would have done inucli more than he did, but for the effects of a shoulder of mutton stuffed with onions.” Silence does not always mark wisdom. Coleridge once dined in company with a person who listened to him and said nothing for a long while; but he nodded his head, and Coleridge thought him intelligent. At length, towards the end of the dinner, some apple dumplings were placed on the table, and the listener had no sooner seen them, than he burst forth, “ Them’s the jockies for me!” Coleridge adds : “I wish Spurzheim could have ex- amined the fellow’s head.” Sir Humphry Davy was an epicure of the drollest kind, and practised the chemistry of the kitchen: he was curious in tasting everything that had never been tasted before, and interfered himself in the composition of dishes intended for his table, thereby encountering the wrath of strange cooks, and running serious risks in inn-kitchens. Poor-man-qf-mtUton is a term applied to a shoulder of mutton in Scotland, after it has been served as a roast at dinner, and appears as a broiled bone at supper, or at the dinner next day. The Earl of B., popularly known as Old Kag, being indisposed at an hotel in London, one morning the landlord came to enumerate the good things in his larder, to prevail on his guest to eat something; when his lordship replied, “ Landlord, I think I could eat a morsel of a poor man,” which with the extreme ugliness of his lordship’s countenance, so terrified Boniface, that he fled from the room, and tumbled down stairs; supposing the earl when at home, was in the habit of eating a joint of a vassal or tenant, when his appetite was dainty.—Jamieson. ” Right to a crack ” is exemplified in the following anecdote, pleasantly related one night by the late Lord Holland, in the House ot Peers:—An English gentleman wanting a dessert