•on Jlinfs for the Table. ]Jubble-ancl-squea,k is a favourite dish in Shropshire. George IV., when Prince of Wales, happened to partake of it at a "bacbelor’s table in that county, and the homely dish was after- wards frequently seen at Carlton House. In the Salters’ Company’s books is the following receipt to make a Game Pie for Christmas, in the reign of Itichard II. Take a pheasant, a hare, a capon, two partridges, two pigeons, and two rabbits; bone them, and put them into paste the shape •of a bird, with the livers and hearts, two mutton kidneys, force- meats, and egg-balls, seasoning, spice, ketchup, and pickled mush- rooms, filled up with gravy made from the various bones. A pie was so made by the Company’s cook in 1836, and was found to be excellent; which proves that our ancestors excelled iu cookery ■more than four centuries and a half ago. Poultry and Game. THE TUEKEY. The turkey ranks as one of the most useful benefits conferred by America on the rest of the world.* Though surpassed in ex- ternal beauty by the peacock, its flesh is greatly superior in excellence, standing almost unrivalled for delicacy of texture and agreeable sapidity. On this account, it has been naturalized with astonishing rapidity throughout the world, and almost universally constitutes a favourite banquet dish. The Indians value it so highly, when roasted, that thej’ call it “ the white man’s dish,” and present it to strangers as the best they can offer. In Eng- land, the rapid increase of tui-keys had rendered them attainable at country leasts as early as the }'ear 1585. Our name for them is very absurd; as it conveys the false idea that the turkey •originated in Asia; owing to the ridiculous habit, formerly pre- valent, of calling every foreign object by the name of Turk, Indian, &c. Wild turkeys have been shot, in their native woods, weighing thirty and even forty pounds, and standing three feet Iiigh.f * When M. Brillat-Savarin, judge of the Court of Cassation, and an :amateur gastronomer, was in A merica, once, on his return fix>m a shooting ■oxciursion, in which he shot a wild turkey, he fell into conversation Avith -Jefferson, who began relating some interesting anecdotes about W ash- ington and the war; when, observing the air distrait oi M. Brillat- Savarin, he stopped, and was about to go awiw: “ My dear sir,” said the gastronomer, “ I beg a thousand pardons, but I was thinking how I should <b'CS8 my wild turkey.” t The CuUoden Duke of Cumberland introduced into W'indsor Forest .great herds of red and fallow deer, and encouraged a breed of wild tiu'keys;