Cluh of London. 16i we had as ^ tolerable substitute the ballad of the Bishop of Here- ford and Eobin Hood, sung by Mr. Dodd; and it was of his own composing. It is true we had not any long oration denouncing the absenteesfthe Cabinet council, or any other set of men, but there was not a man present that at one hour and seventeen minutes after the cloth was removed but could not have made a Demo- sthenic speech far superior to any record of antiquity. It is true no trait of wit is going to be here preserved, for the flashes were too general; and what is the critical sagacity of Scaliger, com- pared to our chairman P Ancients, believe it we were not dead drunk, and therefore lie quiet under the table for once, and let a few modei'ns be uppermost. “ According to the long-established principles of ‘ Maysterre Cockerre,’ each person had 5Z. I4i\ to pay—a tremendous sum, and much may be said thereon.” Earl Spencer presided at the dinner which followed the sale of the Valdarfer Boccaccio; twenty-one members sat down to table at Jaquiere’s, (the Clarendon,) and the bill was comparatively moderate, 55Z. 135. Mr. Haslewood says, with characteristic spriglitliness, “ Twenty-one membei’s met joyfully, dined com- fortably, challenged eagerly, tippled prettily, divided regretfully, and paid the bill most cheerfully.” London clubs, after all, are not bad things for family men. They act as conductors to the storms usually hovering in the air. The man forced to remain at home, and vent his crossness on his wife and children, is a much worse animal to bear with than the man who grumbles his way to Pall Mall, and not daring to swear at the chrb-servants, or knock about the club-furniture, becomes socialized into decency. Nothing like the subordination exer- cised in a community of equals for reducing a flery temper.— Mrs. Gore. A critic in the National Nevietu, profiting by the SandbooJc of London, and the Curiosities of London, as text-books, writes: In the betting-books at White’s and Brookes’s Clubs, which still exist, may be found bets on all conceivable subjects—bets on births, deaths, and marriages: on the length of a life, or the duration of a ministry; on a rascal’s risk of the halter, or a placeman’s prospect of a coronet; on the chances of an election, or the sanity of the King; on the shock of an earthquake, or the last scandal at Eanelagh, or Madame Cornelys’. A man dropped down at the door of White’s; he was carried into the house. Was he dead or not? The odds were immediately given and taken lor and against. It was proposed to bleed him. Those who had taken the odds the man was dead protested that the use of a lancet would alfect the fairness of the bet, Walpole has a M