Rtiles for a Chairman. 183 than for fine music, which is often too liberally bestowed on such occasions. Speak at all ventures, and attempt the mot four rire. You will find people satisfied with wonderfully indifferent jokes, if you can but hit the taste of the company, which depends much on its character. Even a very high party, primed with all the cold irony and non est tanti feelings, or no feelings of fash- ionable folks, may be stormed by a jovial, rough, round, and ready preses. Choose your text with discretion—the sermon may be as you like. Should a drunkard or an ass break in with any- thing out of joint, if you can parry it with a jest, good and well —if not, do not exert your serious authority, unless it is some- thing very had. The authority even of a chairman ought to be very cautiously exercised. With patience, you will have the support of every one. “ 3rd. When you have drunk a few glasses to play the good- fellow, and banish modesty—(if you are unlucky enough to have such a troublesome companion)—then beware of the cup too much. Nothing is so ridiculous as a drunken preses. “ Lastly, always speak short, and Skeoch dock na skiel—cut a tale with a drink. ‘ This is the purpose and intent Of gude Schir Walter’s testament.’” One of the greatest sources of complaint in society, is the want of propriety in the conducting of entertainments in all their varieties, from the simple family dinner to the splendid banquet: for instance, a family dinner ; a family dinner to which guests are admitted; a common dinner party; an entertainment; a bachelor’s dinner; a ministerial dinner; and a dress dinner. Though these and similar other entertainments are distinct, yet the distinctions are not so strictly observed as those in other usages of society. At the plainest as well as the most splendid of these entertainments, everything ought to he as good and as well cooked, and nice as possible; but the style of service ought to be varied, rising from the simple, in elegant succession, to the sumptuous. For real taste does not indiscriminately present turtle and venison on every occasion : something more delicately palatable and less obtrusive is presented with the zest of a fine mango, high flavoured vinegars, well-made sauces, nice salads, and appropriate wines; with the charms of well supported con- versation, affording an uncloying feast throughout the year.— Beauvilliers. A visit should never exceed three days, “ the rest day—the drest day—and i\iQprest day.”