Salads. 93 Endive is very wholesome, strengthening, and easy of digestion; but when strong seasoning is added to it, it becomes an epicurean sauce.—Mai/o. Hecipe for a iVinter Salad, hy the late Rev. Sydney Smith. Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, Unwonted softness to the salad give. Of mordent mustard add a single spoon; Distrust the condiment which bites so soon; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault To add a double quantity of salt; Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And once with vinegar, procured from town. True flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; And, lastly, on the flavoured compound toss A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce. Then, though green turtle fail, though venison’s tough, Aud ham and turkey are not boiled enough. Serenely full the Epicure may say,— Fate cannot harm me—I have dined to-day! The Spanish proverb says four persons are wanted to make a good salad : a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a counsellor for salt, and a madman to stir all up. The early long and short prickly cucumbers are much esteemed; Flanagan’s cucumber, nearly two feet long, is of superior cidspness and flavour; the white and long green Turkey are later fine varie- ties. The pride of first-rate horticultural establishments is to place a cucumber upon the table every day throughout the year. Cucumber dressed with oil and vinegar is a delicious accompani- ment to boiled salmon or turbot, and assists their digestion; though it cools the fish and sauce if it be eaten from the same plate. Salad should be “morning gathered;’’ and being washed, it should be covered up in a table-cloth, to exclude the air, and keep it fresh, until dried. To ensure ridding salad of insects, wash it in sea or salt water. The following are excellent salad ingre- dients :—essence of anchovies, soy, sugar, truffles, flavoured vinegars; black pepper is much used by the French. In the Netherlands, white chicory (endive) is sold at a very cheap rate early in the spring, and supplies a grateful salad long before lettuces are to be had; so that a two-penny bundle will fill a salad-bowl. The roots are taken up, dried, and ground, as a substitute for cofiee.