Hivfs for the Table. 1G2 good story of a person, who, coming into White’s on the morning of the earthquake of 1750, and hearing bets laid whether the shock was caused by an earthquake, or the blowing up of powder- mills, went away in horror, protesting they were such an impious set, that ho believed, “ if the last trump were to sound, they would bet puppet-show against judgment.” One Mr. Blake betted 1500Z. that a man could live twelve hours under water; hired a desperate fellow, and sunk him in a ship by way of experi- ment. Neither ship nor man reappeared. “ Another man and ship are to be tried for their lives,” adds Walpole, who is our authority for this story, “ instead of Blake, the assassin.” Clubs are favourable to temperance: it seems that when people can freely please themselves, and when they have an opportunity of living simply, excess is seldom committed. Prom an account of the expenses of the Athenaeum, in the year 1832, it appears that 17,322 dinners cost, on an average, 2s. 9fcZ. each, and that the average quantity of wine for each person was a small fraction more than half a pint.—Mr. Walker's Original. The vulgar habit of associating the notion of gentility with expense, is invariably discomitenanced at the clubs. The Duke of Wellington might often be seen at the Senior United Service, dining on a joint; and, on one occasion, when he was charged flfteenpence instead of a shilling for it, he bestirred himself till the odd threepence was struck off. The motive was obvious; he took the trouble of objecting, to give his sanction to the prin- ciple.— (Quarterly Review. The Beef-steak Society, the “ Sublime Society of Beef-steaks,” (but disdaining to be thought a Club,) consists of twenty-four members, noblemen and gentlemen, who dine together off beef- steaks at five o’clock on Saturda)'’s, from November until the end of June, at their rooms in the Lyceum Theatre. The dining- room is lined with oak, and decorated with emblematic gridirons, and in the middle of the ceiling is the gridiron first used by the cook. The orthodox accompaniment to the steaks is arrack punch. Each member may invite a friend. The Society originated with George Lambert, the scene-painter of Covent Garden Theatre, during Rich’s management, where Lambert often dined from a steak cooked on the fire in his painting-room, in which he was often joined by his visitors. This led to the founding of the Society by Rich and Lambert, in 1735, in a room in the theatre. After its rebuilding, the place of meeting was changed to the Shakespeai'e Tavern, Great Russell-street; next to the Lyceum Theatre, and on its destruction by fire in 1830, to the Bedford Hotel; and thence to the Lyceum, rebuilt in 1834. The number of members was increased to twenty-five, to admit the Prince of