8 Hints for the Table. is mixed up with that wliich is less so, or which is even not at all so. It is for this reason that rich dishes disaj^ree with healthy persons; a larger portion of nutritive matter being thrown into the stomach than it can readily convert into chyle, and the functions are, in consequence, deranged. The egg is richer in fat than fat beef, and is equalled in this respect only by pork and by eels. The white of the egg is entirely free from I’at; but albumen is so constipating that it re- quires much fat to be eaten with it to counteract this quality. It is, no doubt, because experience has long ago proved this in the stomachs of the people, that “eggs and bacon” have been a popular dish among Gentile nations from time immemorial. HOUES OF MEALS. Lord Byron says:— Man ia a carnivorous production. And must have meals at least once a day: He cannot live like woodcocks upon suction. But like the shark and tiger must have prey. Allow him two meals—a good breakfast and a good dinner j but a hot luncheon is a most destructive meal; and half the young men who lose their health or their lives in the East Indies, are destroyed by the excitement of hot luncheons, fol- lowed by still hotter dinners.—Nimrod. The true art in the economy of refection is to partake at one meal only of as much as will leave the eater free to do honour to the next. The luncheon should not be allowed to supersede the dinner, nor should the appetite be reserved solely I'or the prin- cipal repast.— Ude. An adult in full health requires two substantial meals daih*, and often without prejudice partakes of two additional slight repasts in the twenty-four hours. Women, more delicately organized, eat sparingly, and require three meals in the daj'. The hour of dinner should be neither too late nor too early; if too late, the system will have been exhausted for want of it, will be weakened, and the digestion enfeebled; if too early, the stomach will crave another substantial meal, which, taken late in the evening, will not be digested before the hours of sleep. A person who breakfasts at nine, should not dine later than six.— Herbert Mayo. The enjoyment of dinner will be materially interrupted by any strong mental excitement, which will temporarily exhaust the digestive powers. Hence conversation at the dinner-table should be of the lightest and least exciting kind. Dr. Beaumont made