Bouquet and Crust of Wine. Ill morphosed into the tawniest hue that ever graced the table of an epicure. The eiTor of preferring wines of great age has at length been discovered, and the excellence of the vintage has proved to be of more consequence than the number of years. Provided the vintage has been a good one, no port-wine drinker wishes his to have exceeded its eighth year; so that the lately esteemed epithet “ old ” has lost its charm here. Old hock has also given way to jmung hock, that is of a fine season. The same may be said of claret; and well, indeed, for unless clarets be the growth of some peculiarly good season, they will not keep till old.— Nimrod. The houquet of wine depends upon the proportion which they contain of ananihic ether, which has a sharp disagreeable taste, and has so powerful an odour of wine as to be almost intoxicating. It does not exist in the juice of the grape, but is produced during the fermentation, and increases in quantity by keeping, as the odour of old wines is stronger than that of new wines. So powerful is the odour of this substance, however, that few wines contain more than one forty-thousandth part of their bulk of it. Yet it is always present, can always be recognised by its smell, and is one of the general characteristics of all grape wines. The crust of wine is thus explained : Tartaric acid exists in the juice of the grape in combination with potents, forming bi- tartrate of potasb, or cream of tartar. When the fermented juice is left at rest, this bi-tartrate gradually separates from the liquor, and deposits itself as a crust, or tartar, on the sides of the casks and bottles. Hence, by long keeping, good wines be- come less acid, and every year added to their age increases in proportion their marketable value. In regard to acidity, our common wines ai’range themselves in the following order. Sherry is the least acid; port comes next; then champagne, claret, Madeira, Burgundy, and Khine wines; Moselle is most acid. A damp cellar aids the maturation of wine. Mrs. Bray relates, that in a wet cellar, on the banks of the Cowsick, in Devonshii’e, was wine “which aU who tasted declared to be the finest- flavoured they had ever drunk in England, and this flavour (what- ever wine-merchants may think of the fact), was considered to be the efiect of the atmosphere, the bottles being always covered with moisture, which those who pai-took of the contt its called Dart- moor dew.” A factitious mode of bringing forward bottled port wine, is to throw over it occasionally cold water; but, after the wine has become ripe, it must be di'unk speedily, else it wiU soon become unfit for the table.