176 Hints for the Table. Moore’s for a, week ; and liis lordship once offered a wager of a considerable sum that the reciter was guiltless of understanding its point; but he could get no one to accept the bet. “ Gasconade ” originated from the immoderate boasting of wit, wealth, and valour, by the people of Gascony, in France. Itut the wit and piquancy should be intermixed with self-exaltation, as in the following: A Gascon, in proof of his nohilit}', asserted that in his father’s castle they used no other firewood but the batons of the different Marshals of France in his family. Nor must we forget the Gascon general, who, by the lucky grazing of a bullet on the roll of his stocking, took occasion to halt all his life after.—(See Tatler, No. 77.) The parvenu who made a sweet fire with his claret corks, was a vulgar gascon. The voice, if very strong and sharp, will crack a drinking- glass. One evening, at a party at the London Coffee House, Ludgate HiH, Mr. Broadhurst, the well-known tenor, by singing a high note, caused a wine-glass on the table to break, the bowl being separated from the stem. 'The antiquity of toothpicks is proved by the statement of Agathocles, the wealthy ruler of Syracuse, in 289 b.c., having been poisoned by means of a medicated quill, handed to him for cleaning his teeth after dinner. The origin of Punch is thus explained in Dr. Doran’s clever and very amusing History of Court Pools : In the days of King Philip the Macedonian, whenever a man fold an extremely witty story, he was pretty sure to be met Mth the remai-k, “Ah, that comes from the Sixty.” It was as much as doubting the originality of the wit. “ The Sixty” was, in fact, a club of wits. They met in Athens, not at a tavern, but in the Temple of Hercules. They were fellows who had the very highest opinion of their own abilities, for they regularly entered in a book all the witticisms of the evening. This was, probably, the very first jest-book ever put together. To listen to it, when the secretary took it with him to private parties, must have been an antepast of Punch. The precious book has perished, but Athenoeus has preserved the names of a few of the members, which, however, are not worth repeating, though it may be stated that the owners had also nicknames; and one tall, clever, nimble fellow, Callimedes, was familiarly hailed by his follow-clubbists as “ the Grasshopper.” Philip heard of this merry, social, rvitty company, and longing to know merre of them, their sayings and doings, he chd not, indeed, invite them to his distant court, but he sent them a talent (nearly 2001. sterling), and requested the loan of the last volume of the transactions of the “ Sixty Club.” The book was duly despatched ; and, perhaps, the loan of a volume was never paid for at so high a rate: the authors thus played the part of court fools by deputy. Their jokes were stereotj’ped, and had a long and merry life of it. It was useless for any man to fire one off as his own, for the source was instantly discovered, and the company would derisively call out, “ An old Sixty!” just as dull retailers of faded jests are suppressed in our own day, by the crj of “An old Joe!”