26 Ilmis for the Table. probability be required, that out of thirteen persons, of different ages, one of them, at least, shall die within a year, it will be found that the chpces are about one to one that one death, at least, will ■occur. Ihis calculation, by means of ;i false interpretation, ha.s given rise to the prejudice, no less ridiculous, that the danger will be avoided by inviting a greater number of guests, which can only have the effect of augmenting the probability of the event so much apprehended.— Queielet, on ike Calculation of Frohahilities. This superstition obtains in Italy and Ilussia, as well as in England.^ Moore, in his Diary, vol. ii. p. 206, mentions there being thirteen at dinner one day at Madame Catalani’s, when a Erench countess, who lived with her upstairs, was sent for to remedy the grievance. Again, Lord L. said he had dined o;ice abroad at Count OrlofTs, who did not sit down to dinner, but Icept wallcing from chair to chair, because “ the Naristiken were at table, who, he knew, would rise instantl}' if they perceived the number thirteen, which Orlofl' would have made by sitting down himself.”—Things not generally Knoicn. Walpole gives an odd account of a Mrs. Holman, whose pas- sion was, keeping an assembly and inviting literally everybody to it. “ She goes to the di-awing-room to watch for sneezers, whips out a curtsey, and then sends next morning to know how your cold does, and desire your company on Thursda3\” Carving. To be able to cai’ve well is an useful and elegant accomplish- ment. It is an artless recommendation to a man who is looking out for a wife. Bad carving is alike inconsistent with good manners and economy, and evinces in those who neglect it, not only a culpable disrespect to the opinion of the world, but carelessness, inaptitude, and indifference to any object of ntilit}'. The Honours of the Table were until within a few years per- formed by the mistress of the house. In the last century, this task must have requii-ed no small share of bodily strength, “ for the lady was not only to invite—that is, urge and tease— her company to eat more than human throats could conveniently swallow, but to carve every dish, when chosen, with her own hands. The greater the lady, the more indispensable the dut}’’,— ■each joint was carried uji in its turn, to be operated upon by her, and her alone; since the peers and knights on either hand were so far from being bound to offer their assistance, that the