Wlushj BrinJdng. 133 The peculiar ilavour of potteen whisky is supposed to he caused By the practice of drying the malt from which it is made by turf, b ut this is disputed by Mr. Donovan, who inspected a potteen distillery in the north of Ireland. The distiller stated that his spirit had the same smell, whether his malt were dried with turf or coal. Mr. Donovan thinks it probable that the flavour depends on the nature of the fermentation, and the greater quantity of essential oil produced by low distillation. It is possible, however, that the turf smoke with which the mountain distilleries abound, may be absorbed by the spirit while running, but more especially by the worts, while under fermentation. The steeping of the malt in bog water before it is dried on the kiln, may also give origin to the smell of turf in the spirit. The superiority of “ smuggled whisky ” is not, however, ima- ginary: “ It is a remarkable fact,” sa3’s Major-General Stewart, “ that a spirit of the best quality and flavour has been distilled by men with their apparatus at the side of a burn, and, perhaps, changing weekly for fear of discovery; malting on the open heath, and hurrying on the process to avoid detection; yet, with all these disadvantages, the spirit thus manufactured was of superior flavour, and brought the highest price in the market. The same men, with the advantage of the best utensils, the purest water, and the best fuel, then made an experiment in a licensed distillery, yet failed to produce a spirit equal in quality and flavour to the ‘ smuggled whisky.’ ” The Quarterly Review, in an article on the Caldwell Papers, published by Colonel Mure, says—“ No mention whatever occurs of whisky in the household or cellar books of Caldwell; the Mm-es were ripened by good ‘ ail and wyne ’ until 1745, when the pre- sent vin dupays of Scotland, usquebaugh, that water of life, as this phlegethontic fluid of death is miscalled, crept down to the Lowlands after the battle of Culloden. This short concentrated dram, which, suiting a damp dreary climate, had cheered the chilled breekless Highlander, now bids fair to convert modern Athens into a gin palace and pandemonium, in spite of Forbes Mackenzie’s Act and temperance societies.” About the same time whisky began to be common in Inverness, the usual drink being claret for the gentlemen and ale for the common people. A duty on ale was an important source of revenue in the town.— Carruthers. Gin is described as a spirit distilled from malt or lye, which afterwards undergoes the same process a second time with juniper berries. This is the original and most wholesome state of the spirit; but it is now prepared without juniper berries, or is dis- tilled from turpentine and cardamoms, and a very few, if any,