155 l^ational Dinners. bowls of sherbet each with a wooden spoon ; two dishes of pillau of rice soaked in oil or butter, boiled fowl, raisins, and a little saffron; two plates of sliced melon ; two of kabobs, or morsels of dry boiled meat; and a dish of fowl roasted to a cinder. As forks are not used, the guests dexterously scoop up the contents of the plates into their mouths, with three fingers and the thumb of their right hand. In Persia, it is etiquette to keep the head covered, and never to enter a room in boots or slippers. Our countrymen speak of being obliged to dine in their cocked hats and feathers as a far more troublesome extremity of politeness than leaving their shoes at the door. A grand Chinese dinner is an aldermanic affair. The notes of invitation are much larger than ours, and are written upon beau- tiful red paper. The company are received by hosts of attendants bearing lanterns; and being welcomed by startling music, they are first served with tea, without milk or sugar. There is no table-cloth; instead of napkins, three-cornered pieces of paper are used, and for knife and fork are substituted two little round chop-sticks; whilst porcelain spoons are used for soup. There are many hundred dishes served, the roasts being carved by cooks in uniform and tasteful costume. The whole repast occupies full six hours. On October 26th, 1858, Prince Napoleon gave at Paris a grand dinner, at which several dishes were Chinese: some of the wine drunk was from Siam (having been sent by one of the Kings of that country to the Prince), and one of the guests was a Chinese mandariu. Among the dishes were swallows’-nests, cooked in the Nankin method; fins of a shark fried; olutJmries a la man- darine ; the interior of a sturgeon d Voctogenaire, aux rondelles debamhoux; olutJmries in salad, with pheasant jelly; rice des immortels; fowl, with Japanese currie; spinach, with halicliao, such as was much esteemed' at Home under Augustus; rice in Chinese fashion, ordinary India currie, &c. The Chinese are much more skilful in contrivances for supply- ing the luxuries of the table than is generally imagined. Demp- ster’s scheme for preserving fish in ice (adopted in Scotland in 1800), has been practised in China for centuries. "Wheels driven by crews keep in life and freshness, by a stream of water, thou- sands of fish brought by boats into the Canton market daily. The French have been particularly successful in preserving pro- visions by exclusion of air; but the Chinese had preceded them for centuries in their simple and effectual methods of keeping •eggs, fish, and vegetables. Sugar is of early origin, and, perhaps, more is used in China than all the rest of the world piit together;