88 Ilivts for the Table. picked, so tliat no weeds or stalks are lel’t amongst it. The lea.st oversight may spoil the spinach in spite of the best cookery. New Zealand spinach supplies fresh leaves for use, when the crops of summer spinach are useless. Boiled beet-root, white haricot beans, and fried parsneps, are excellent accompaniments to roast mutton. Celeriac, or celerie rave, may be used in the kitchen for seven or eight months in succession. In Germany, it is eaten as salad. Hop-tops are eaten instead of asparagus, dressed in the same manner, and served with white sauce, melted butter, or oil. The nettle is truly a table plant: the young and tender nettle is an excellent pot-herb, and the stalks of the old nettle are as good as flax for making a tablecloth.— Campbell. The tomata is much less used in England than on the Conti- nent. Near Kome and Naples whole fields are covered with it; and scarcely a dinner is served in which it does not form a dish. In Spain, tomatas are di’ied, powdered, and bottled, and thus kept for an indefinite time; an excellent store gravy sauce may like- wise be made of them. The egg-plant in England is a mere green-house plant; but, in France the eggs are eaten in soups and stews. LATEE. It has been well observed, there is not, \ipon earth, in air, or sea, a single flavour (cost what it may to procure it), that mercantile opulence will not procure. Increase the difficulty, and you enlist vanity on the side of luxury; and make that be sought for, as a display of wealth, which was before valued only for the display of appetite. The doctrine is exemplified in laver, which is the sea liver-wort, a reddish sea-weed, forming a jelly when boiled, and eaten by some of the poor people in the Highlands with bread, instead of butter: it is there called sloTce, and is also used to make a broth. The rich of this country have elevated laver into one of the dainties of their table; it is generally served hot in a silver saucepan, or in a silver lamp-dish, and is excellent with roast mutton. It is curious to reflect that what is eaten at a duke’s table in St. James’s, as a first-rate luxury, is used by the poorest people of Scotland twice or thrice a day. Laver is also obtained in abundance upon the pebble beech, three miles long, near- Bideford. To a pound of laver add a bit of fresh butter the size of a walnut, the juice of half a lemon, a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of glaze; stew for half an hour, and serve over a spirit lamp. In Ireland dilosk, or laver, is constantly served during the season with roast beef or roast mutton-