150 Hints Jot the Table. slight sprinkling of hot dishes, as mutton kidneys, new laid eggs, eggs and bacon, broiled cutlets, larks a la minute, deviled Ibwl, •&c. ;^in fact, all that is generally considered as constituting a dejeune a lafourchette, observing that the hot meats ought not to be served till the guests are at table. Tea (green and black separately), coffee, and chocolate, should also be served.— Ude. Chocolate is not so much consumed in England as it deserves to be; it is in greater esteem in France; it forms the ordinary breakfast in Spain; and in Mexico is an article of prime necessity. A broiled fowl is a capital luncheon-dish: if it be half roasted, then split, and finished on the gridiron, ‘it will be less dry than if wholly broiled. A sandwich, with or without a glass of sherry, is, however, ■a better luncheon. It is best not to make a luncheon a meal of habit; but to take it only when the appetite tells you that 3’ou require it.—Mayo. Raw oysters are an excellent mid-day luncheon, and serve well to allay the cravings of hunger at that hour. Chocolate is much taken as luncheon in various parts of the Continent. At Berlin, the confectioners’ shops become the general lounge and resort about one or two o’clock, for taking •chocolate. A luncheon is generally composed of cold meats, such as pates, fowls, pheasants, partridges, ham, beef, veal, brawn, and generally whatever is left, fit to be introduced: part of which is to be placed on a side-table; on the table is to be served a little hashed fowl, some mutton cutlets broiled plainly, with mashed pota- toes.— Tide. Kidneys should be eaten directly they are dressed, else they will lose their goodness. They are also uneatable if they are too much done, and a man that cannot eat meat underdone should not have them at his table. In France, they are sauti with •champagne or chablis. Suppers were the 7ieplus ultra of human invention: it could go no further, and was obliged to degenerate; dinner is too much matter of business, it is a necessity: now, a necessity is too like a duty ever to be pleasant. Besides, it divides the day, instead of winding it \ip. I do not think, moreover, that people were ever meant to enjoy themselves in the day-time.—Miss Landon. Lord Byron once made an odd experiment; to dine at midnight, after the theatre was over; but the freak failed; ■the repast was servi as a dinner, but it was more like a supper. Potted meats make elegant sandwiches; which, if cut into