Hints fur the Table. 122 {Inglis's Spain.) In short, it is entirely by the aroma and by the taste, not at all by the colour, that sherries are to be judgecl. The wide differences in colour depend entirely upon the pro- portion of boiled wine; while those slighter shades, perceptible among the pale and light golden wines, are owing to some small difference in the ripeness of the fruit; or, to factitious decolor- ization by our wine-merchants. The finest and driest sherry is called Amontillado. It is very rare: out of forty butts collected from the same vineyard, not above two or three having this quality. Sherry is only taken as a vin de liqtceur in France, and not with dinner as in England. MADEIRA. Madeira, as a stimulant, equals port, and, when in fine con- dition, may truly be called a generous wine: unfortunately, it is rarely to be procured; and as it is generally more acid than either port or sherry, it is, consequently, not so well adapted to stomachs inclined to dyspeptic acidity. Wine-drinkers in England are very commonly deceived into the idea that a voyage to the East or West Indies is sufficient to •ensure the excellence of Madeira wine: but this is an obvious fallacy, for if the wine were not of a good quality when shipped from the island, a thousand voyages could not make it what it never had been. It is well known to every merchant in Madeira, that a great proportion of the wines so shipped are of an inferior quality, and are purchased in barter by persons who are com- monly known by the name of truckers.—Holman’s Voyage. So destructive has been the vine disease in Madeira, of late jears, that the production of its beautiful wine can no further be hoped for. The bidding for the famous pipe of Madeira, at the sale of the effects of the late Duchess de Eaguse, in 1868, caused a great commotion in Paris. This famous wine, known to all as the “ 1814 pipe,” was fished up near ■ Antwerp in 1814, where it had lain in the carcass of a ship ■nTecked at the ■ mouth of the Scheld in 1778, and which had lain there ever since, ,4s soon as the valuable discovery was made knovn, Louis XVIII. despatched . an agent to secure the precious relic. A share of the glorious beverage • was presented to the French Consul, who had assisted at its discovery, and • thus it came into the cellars of the Duke de Eaguse. Only four and forty bottles were remaining, and these were literally sold for their weight in gold to Eothschild, who was opposed by Vdron and Milland. Veron was ■ angry, because he declared that he had made the reputation of the wine,. by mentioning it in his Memoirs, on the occasion of the dinner given to Taglioni by the Duchess de Eaguse, whereat the famous “ 1814” was • produced as the greatest honour to be paid to the great artist.—Court ‘ Journal. When the celebrated Malmsey, made in Crete, is stored in the