Hints for the Table. 0 NOUEISnilENT IN FOOD. Dr. Prout has clearly proved, that our principal alimentary matters may be reduced to three classes, of which suf'ar, butter, and white of e^g are the representatives. Now, milk, the only article absolutely prepared and intended by nature as an aliment, is a compound of all the three classes; and almost all the grani- vorous and herbaceous matters employed as Ibod by the lower animals, contain at least two, if not all the three. The same is true of animal aliments, which consist, at least, of albumen and oil. In short, it is perhaps impossible to name a substance emplo3’-ed by the more perfect animals as food, that does not essentially constitute a natural compound of at least two, if not three, of these great principles of alimentary matter. Every one who has reached the middle of life, must have had occasion to observe, how much his comfort and his powers of exertion depend upon the state of his stomach, and will have lost some of his original indifference to rules of diet.—Mayo. The stomach exercises a great influence over our daily happiness, Mrs. Hannah More says in her quaint way: “ There are only two bad things in this world—sin and bile.” When in a perfectly healthy condition, everything goes on well; on the contrary, our doctors tell us that the horrors of hypochondriasis are mainly owing to dyspepsia or indigestion. EDUCATION OF THE STOMACH. Dr. Granville considers that the whole secret of eating and drinking depends on the manner in which a stomach has been educated,. “ Each,” the doctor tells us, “ has had its physical education as peculiarly different from the rest, as that which the professor has received in the nursery or at college, and each must he dealt with accordingly.” A mixture of animal and vegetable food, aided by cooking and by condiments, may be said to be essential to our well-being and to our social existence; for, all attempts which have been made materially to simplify our diet, have not been attended by an}' flattering results, nor have either philosophers or economists suc- ceeded in persuading mankind, either by example or precept, that raw vegetables and water are conducive to health and longevity; so that man must still submit to the distinctive definition ot being a cooking animal. DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD.—THEORY OF COOKERY. Venison is the most digestible animal food: its age makes it fibrinous; its texture is naturally not so close-grained as that ot