Ilivta for the Table. 154 scnted with a soup-plato holdinff oleven small, dry sweet cakes, each as big as a Genevese watch-glass. The wine was scarcely drinkaWe, except- ing, I presume, one bottle of Burgundy, which the generous master of the house kept faitlifully to himself, not offering even the lady by his side, a stranger, and his own invited guest, a single glass.” The etiquette of a Eussian dinner is very formal. "WHien the guests are seated, the master and mistress of the feast remain standing, it being their business to attend upon the company, and to see that the servants do their duty. Nothing can escape their observation: your plate does not remain a moment empty, nor yom' glass a moment either empty or fnll. French wines are mostly drunk ; Madeira is also a favourite; and a bottle of port is set down expressly for the Englishman. At her own time, the mistress gives the signal, and all rise from the table. Turkish cookery is much praised by Soyer. When at Con- stantinople he described its regime as containing— Many dishes which are indeed worthy of the table of the greatest epicMe. He will not consider his Oriental mission terminated to his satisfac- tion tin he sees in the bills of fare of France and England “ their pur^e de volaiUe au rds tomates et coucombres and pur^e de Bahmia aromastide k la crime by the side of our potages h, la Eeiue, Portue, JuUienne, and muUigatawney; near our whitebait, red mullets, turbots, and salmon, their fried sardines, bar fish, gurnards, sturgeon, red mullets aux herbes, oyster pUafi', mackerel, salad, &c.; and with our roast beef, saddlebaek of mutton, and haunch of venison, their sheep, lomb, or kid, roasted whole, and the monster and delicious kebab; by our entries of suprime do volaiUe, salmis, and vol-aux-vents, their doulmas koifteo, sis kabobs, haliarram boutou, pilaff, aux cailles, &c.; with our vegetables, their Bahmia fried leeks and celery, Patligan bastici, and sakath kabac bastici; with our macedoines, jellies, charlottes, &c., their lokounda, moukahalibi, Baclava gyneristi, ckmekataive. Their coffee, iced mUk, and sherbet— in fact. Si their principal dishes—^might with the best advantage be adopted and Frenchified and Anglicised; not so their method of serving, in which they mix sweet and savoury dishes throughout the repast.” M. Soygr goes on to say that he had dined with the general-in-chief of the culinary department of the Sultan, and that for tour guests above seventy small dishes formed the biU of fare. This repast was the fac- simile of the dinner daily served up to the Sultan, who always takes his meals alone. A Persian banquet is a strange repast. The guests are first served with cofiee in very small cups, and without cream or sugar; then tea, in large cups, and at last dinner. The table-cloth, or sofra, of flowered cotton, is spread upon the carpet; and this cloth is used so long unchanged, that the accumulated fragments of former meals collect into a musty paste, emitting no very | savoury smell; but the Persians are content, for they say that i changing the sofra brings ill luck. A piece of their bread or ! cake is then set for each guest, to be used as a plate and napkin, i Then a tray is placed between each two persons, containing two i