142 IlmU for the Table. block of Wenham Lake ice, weighing a few pounds, will last several days, unless it be broken off for table use, or mixing with drinks. The artificial production of Ice has, of late, been brought to great perfection. A Freezing Powder is made, by which a bottle of wine may be iced at the cost of little more than a penny! By aid of machineiy and this freezing preparation, a large castle has been frozen, in metal moulds, from the purest spring water; it was five feet in length, the same in height, and weighed nearly 7 cwt. The Patent Ice Safe is a successful invention. This is a large chest, opening in front, as well as at the top: the outer sides are thick, and filled with a non-conducting sub- stance ; the interior is fitted with zinced shelves, the ice being placed in a central upright chamber. The advantages of this Safe are not only due to the cold and at\he same time perfectly ch-y atmosphere existing in its interior, in consequence of the patented principle of the ice being contained in a separate cham- ber, but also to its great economy in the consumption of ice. Fruit and vegetables, including strawberries, asparagus, cucum- bers, &c., may be preserved in this Safe upwards of a fortnight, in a state quite fit for the table; and butter may be almost frozen in it in two hours. Smoking. Of smoking, it has been well observed, that all imaginative persons when the world goes wrong with them, console them- selves for the absence of realities by the creations of smoke. Smokers formerly considered the well-known white earthen pipe of Old England to be a more delicate mode of smoking than any other; as, by its being constantly changed, the smoker was not annoyed by the bitter taste which other pipes, by frequent use, are apt to contract. It is, however, now considered that when a clay pipe has, from long use, become blackened or embrowned, by the oil of the tobacco,—or culotU as the French call it—it is frequently improved. Dr. Lyon Playfair, in his Keport on the Tobacco in the Great Exhibition of 1851, states that “ the finest tobacco in the world comes from Havannah. But there is only a limited area in Cuba in which that tobacco is produced; so that whilst the Havannah tobacco may be of excellent quality in general, the best is the produce of a very small area, and is chiefly used in the island or as presents, a very limited amount going into general consumption. Tobacco, scarcely inferior to that from Havannah, has, however been brought from Trinidad, and