53 Opter-eating. is excellent when cut into cutlets, covered with egg and bread- crumbs, and fried: its best season is from Michaelmas to Chiist- juas. The Ituffe makes a dainty dish, when nicely fried: it is in season from Midsummer to March. The flesh of the sea-cow, found in the vast rivers of Brazils, resembles fresh pork, and is excellent. Sausages are made ot it, and sent to Portugal as a great delicacy. OTSTEE3. Oysters are recommended by the doctors where great nourish- ment and easy digestion are required; their valuable quality being the quantity of gluten they contain. There is an old prejudice that oysters are only good in those months which include the letter r; an error which was refuted so long ago as the year 1804, when M. Balaine contrived the means of sending to Paris oysters fresh, and in the best possible order, at all seasons alike. Balaine's predecessor in this art was Apicius, who is said to have supplied Trajan with fresh oysters at all seasons of the year. The Homans, according to Pliny, made Ostrecirii, or loaves of bread baked with oysters. Oysters were eaten by the Greeks; and fattened in pits and ponds by the Romans. The latter obtained the finest from Ru- izipics, now Sandwich, in Kent. The Roman epicures iced their oysters before eating them; and the ladies used the calcined shell as a cosmetic and depillatory. In Paris is published a hroclmre entitled Le Manuel de VAmateur des Huitres, in which the British oysters are acknow- ledged to be the finest. The London market is principally supplied with Oysters from the beds of Whitstable, Rochester, Milton, Colchester, Burnham, and Queenborough, all artificial beds, furnishing natives. Since the introduction of steamboats and railways, considerable quan- tities of sea-oysters are bi'ought from Falmouth and H el lord, in Cornwall; from the coast of Wales, the Isle of Wight, and neighbourhood of Sussex, and even from Ireland and Scotland, after the winter sets in, as before they would not keep fresh when brought from long distances. The sea-oyster is often, before being brought to market, kept for a time in artificial beds, in order to improve its flavour. The most esteemed oysters are those of the small, ovate, but deep-shelled variety, called Natives, among those of the river Crouch, or Burnham oysters, are pre- eminent for their marine flavour, probably, on account of the facilities for importing them in fine condition. In London, the chief consumption of common Oysters is from the 4th of August