Hints for the Table. 114 prefer it in its native state; but for the British market, to every Ibrty gallons of wine from five to ten gallons of brandy is added. The sweetening is artificial—white sugar Irom the Isle of Bourbon, costing, in casks, ninepence per pound. Mr. Musgrave describes unsweetened champagne as “ like Sauterne mixed with worm- wood.” The finest quality on the spot is sold at four shillings a bottle, the commonest, or pink champagne, at two shillings and ninepence. It is calculated that a dozen of the finest Bheims growth could not be delivered in London at a price less than sixty- eight shillings the dozen. Champagne is not fit to be thus delivered up before the May of the second year; so that a bottle of frothy wine cannot be drunk till from eighteen to twenty months. Better the thirtieth month after it has quitted the parent vine. This, with the trouble, the loss, and the cellar-rent, make it impossible that genuine, properly-prepared champagne should be otherwise than costly. Champagne, therefore, is the wine of the wealthy. Wine-mer- chants on the spot cannot let you have passable Sillery for less than two francs and a-half per bottle. At Epemay dwelt M. Moet and Madame Clicquot, sovereigns of Champagne. M. Moet* had two palaces, on opposite sides of the same street, and in one of these he lodged Napoleon on the eve of the battle of Montmirail. In the other he dwelt himself. Not far ofi" stands the rival castle of Madame Clicquot.'f She possessed, it is said, foiu’fold the wealth of M. Moet, and her four daughters are all married to opulent men. M. Moet employed two hundred workpeople, kept a stock of three million bottles of wine, besides seven vast tuns, and stored with his champagne a labyrinth of well-ventilated vaults, some of which are fifty feet below the surface of the ground. Every pint and a half of Champagne wine undergoes, before it finds its way to the table, not less than a hundred and fifty several processes of manipulation. St. Peray is a pleasant wholesome efl’ervescing wine; and is remarkable for its natimal unbrandied strength, CLAEETS. St. Estiphe, St. Julien, Bouillac, and La Eose, are light, agreeable, aromatic wines, gently exhilarating. Chateau-Margaux has the perfume of the violet, and a rich ruby colour. Haut Brion has a powerful bouquet resembling a mixtxu’e of violets * M. Moet, whose name is so well-known to all drinkers of champagne, more or less genuine, died a few days since, aged 80.—Times, Sept. 6,18*11. f From the fondness of the King of Prussia for this lady’s Champagne, Ills majesty received the sobriquet of King Clicquot.