«6 Hints for the Table. Ileal Brussels sprouts are rarely seen in England, and are nearly as scarce in France; no proper care being taken in their culture, apparently, but in the neighbourhood of Brussels. Here they are served boiled, with a sauce of vinegar, butter, and nut- meg, poured over them. Brussels tops are much more delicate than sprouts; in Belgium, the small cabbages are not esteemed if more than half an inch in diameter. A piece of fresh charcoal boiled with vegetables, will often counteract their bitterness. Sea-kale, unlike most other vegetables, is improved by forcing: the forced shoots produced at mid-winter being more crisp and delicate than those of natural growth in April and May. Mlien dressed, it is commonly served upon toasted bread, to soak up the water; but, when the kale is drained dry on a clean cloth, the toast is not requisite. In Ude’s time, sea-kale was not known in France. It was first brought into fashion in this country, hy Dr. Lettsom, in the year 1767. Kale is in perfection in January. Cardoous or thistle-heads, with Spanish sauce, though not much relished in England, are highly esteemed in France. They make a capital entremef, and may be selected as one of the finest efforts of cookery. Chou-croute is easy of digestion, and well adapted for flatulent stomachs. Captain Cook was so well aware of its anti-scorbutic qualities, that he kept his men three years in health at sea by the use of it two or three times a week; Chou-croute, in this country, is mostly stewed in gravy; but in Bavaria, it is boiled and mixed with butter and red wine, or juniper berries, aniseed, and caraways. Many persons are prejudiced against certain vegetables for no other reason than because they are not used to them, &c. For instance, we seldom hear of French Beans being cooked when in a dry state; yet, on the Continent, they are highly esteemed; and if given a fair trial here, we see no reason why they should not become as much used for soup making as peas. The Haricot Beans should be prepared as follows: Put the Haricots into cold water, boil them gently till the skins begin to crack, then pour away the water, which is always nauseous; have ready boiling water to supply its place; simmer the Haricots till tender. They must not be allowed to get cold whilst cooking, or they can never be boiled tender. TTJENIPS. Though yellow turnips are not much admired at table, they are