Herrings.—Pike. 49 Thames Flounders are by some thought to be insipid and flavourless; to prevent which, put a handful of salt in the water wherein they are boiled. Although barbel are rejected as a fish not fit to be eaten, they are by no means to be despised, if dressed as follows; the fish should be well cleaned, and the back-bone taken out, and the sides cut into slices, thrown into salt and water for an hour or two, and then spitchcocked as eels.—Jesse s Angler’s Rambles. HERUINGS. The flesh of herrings is so delicate, that no cook should attempt to dress them otherwise than by broiling or frying. Let the herring be placed upon the gridiron, over the clearest of fires, and when sufficiently embrowned, let him instantly be transferred to the hottest of plates; eat him with mustard-sauce, in the kitchen if you can. The male, or soft-roed herrings, are always the best, when in proper season. Our herring-fisheries are now a valuable property, in which altogether from two to three millions of money are sunk, about half a million being sunk in boats, nets, and lines alone. In many parts of Scotland a hundred herrings can be purchased for sixpence. The Scotch-cured herrings have a large sale oh the Continent, and in some places are even superseding the Dutch. Red herrings should be very bright and shining, like bur- nished metal, and stiff; if limp and dull in colour, and soft about the belly, they are ill-cured, and will never eat well. Mustard much improves red herrings. So great a rarity within the pi’esent century was an English- cured herring, that a story is told of Admiral Rodney, when dining at Carlton House, congratulating the Prince of Wales upon seeing what he thought to be a dish of Yarmouth bloaters upon the table ; adding, that if the Prince’s example was followed by the upper ranks only, it would be the means of adding twenty thousand hardy seamen to the navy. The Prince observed that he did not deserve the compliment, as the herrings had not been cured by British hands; “but,” he continued, “henceforward I shall order a dish of English-cured herrings to be purchased at any expense, to appear as a standing dish at this table. We shall call it a Rodney; and, under that designation, what true patriot will not follow my example ?” PIKE, CAKE, PEECH, AND GUENAED. Pike are capital if bled in the tail and gills as soon as caught; they die much whiter, which is a comfort to themselves, and look better at table.—Quarterly Review. E