73 The Ortolan. and is judged by feeling it, and not by appearance. It should not be killed with violence, like other birds, as this might crush and bruise the delicate flesh—to avoid which the usual mode is to plunge the head of the ortolan into a glass of brandy. Having picked the bird of its feathers, singe it, cut off the beak and ends of the feet, but do not draw it; put it into a paper case soaked in olive oil, and broil it over a slow fire—charcoal or slack cinders—and in a few minutes the ortolan will swim in its own i'at, and be cooked. Some epicures wrap each bird in a vine-leaf. Ortolans ai-e packed in tin boxes for exportation. They may be bought at Morel’s, in Piccadilly. Mr. Fisher, of Duke-street, St. James’s, and other West-end poulterers, import ortolans in considerable numbers; and Mr. Fisher has acquired the art ot fattening these birds. A gourmet will take an ortolan by the legs, and crunch it in delicious mouthfuls, so as absolutely to lose none of it. More delicate feeders cut the bird in quarters, and lay aside the gizzard, which is somewhat hard; the rest may be eaten, even to the bones, which are sufficiently tender for the most delicate mouth to masticate without inconvenience. The ortolan is an autumnal visitor to the British isles, and may occur more frequently than is generally supposed; since it may be mistaken for the yellow-hammer, and, in some states of plu- mage, for other buntings. It has been caught in the neighbour- hood of London: there are live specimens in large aviaries, and occasionally the birds are sent from the Continent alive to the London markets. Specimens have also been hatched by arti- ficial heat in the aviary of the Ornithological Society. According to Buflbn, the ortolan was known in Greek and Homan epicurism; but a lively French commentator doubts this, and maintains that had the ancients known the ortolan, they would have deified it, and built altars to it on Mount Hymettus and the Janiculum; adding, did they not deify the horse of Caligula, which was cer- tainly not worth an ortolan ? and Caligula himself, who was not worth so much as his horse ? The ortolan figures in a cmaous anecdote of individual epicurism in the Last century. A gentleman of Gloucestershhe had one son, whom he sent abroad, to make the grand tour of the Continent, where ho paid more at- tention to the cookery of nations and luxurious living, than anything else. Before his return, his father died, and left him a large fortune. He now looked over his note-book to discover where the most exquisite dishes wore to be had, and the best cooks obtained. Every servant in his house was a cook; his butler, footman, housekeeper, coachman, and grooms—all were cooks. He had also three Italian cooks—one from Elorence, another from Sienna, and a third from Viterbo—for dressing one Florentine dish! He had a messenger constantly on the road between Brittany and London, to