Cliatna, Currie, etc. 81 “ Many persons,” observes Mr. Dobell, in his Travels in China, “have thought that gravy was used in preparing soy ; but this appears not to be the case, the compo.sition being entirely a vege- table one, and made from beans. Japanese soy is much esteemed in China; probably it is made with a particular bean.* In China the consumption of soy is enormous ; neither rich nor poor can dine, breakl'ast, or sup without soy; it is the sauce for all sorts of food, and may he described as indispensable at a Chinese repast.” Cavice is the composition which best agrees with all fish- sauces, especially when it has been kept two or three years. One of the most elegant preparations of culinary chemistry is soluble Cayenne pepper, when genuine. Capers are the buds of the caper-bush, the flowers of which are white and purple. The flower-buds of the marsh-marygold, preserved in vinegar, are a good substitute for capers. CHATNA, CUEEIE, AND PEPPEE. In Bengal, chatna is usually made from a vegetable called cotemear, to the eye veiy much resembling parsley, but to those unused to it, of a very disagreeable taste and smell; which is sti’ongly heated with chilies. The chatna is also sometimes made with cocoa-nut, lime-juice, garlic and chilies. Both kinds are much eaten by the Hindoos as a stimulant to their rice. In England, currie-powder brought from India is highly prized; but this is a mere delusion. In India, the cooks have no currie- powder—they pound and mix the various seeds and spices as they require them. For use on ship-board, bottles of currie-powder are made up in India, because, to take the unprepared seeds would be inconvenient; but very frequently, this powder is detestable, though made abroad. Indeed, currie-powder can be made just as good here as in India. Another mistake respecting currie-powder is, that we make it too hot with Cayenne-pepper. In India, there are mild curries, and hot curries: the former contain no Cayenne- pepper or chili; the latter are warmed, not with Cayenne-pepper, but with the green chili, which is always preferable. Currie-powder consists of turmeric, black pepper, coriander seeds, Cayenne, fenugreek, cardamoms, cumin, ginger, allspice, and cloves: but the three latter are often omitted. The ingredients may be bought of most seedsmen, and then, with a common pestle and mortar, may be prepared genuine currie-powder at a cost of about 2d. per oz.—retailed in shops at 6c?., Qd., and even Is. * Now that Japan is open to our trade, we hope to receive Japanese soy, with greater eertainty. a