Hints for the Table. 104 out losing their flavour, by wiping them and putting them into a cool brick oven: occasionally while drying, grate a little sugar over them. THE PINE-APPLE.—MELON.—GKAPES. Since “ Pine-apples a penny a slice ” was added to the cries of London, in 1844, gi-eat improvement has been made in the culture of the Pines in Eleuthera, one of the Bahamas, and Nassau in New Providence, whence this now economical luxury was first shipped. A new mode of packing—each pine being carefully inclosed within its own leaves—causes the fruit to arrive in much finer condition than heretofore. The pine-plants in the West Indies bear for only three years ; the last year’s growth are sent on the trees to England. Eleuthera and Governor Island are equally celebrated for their pines and their turtles. At the beginning of the last century, pine-apples were very rare even at the tables of our nobility; but in no country of the world has their culture been brought to such high perfection as in England. At the coronation banquet of George IV. was a pine weighing 10 pounds; and nine-and-twenty years later, there were at a banquet at York, two “ Koyal Providence” pines, each weighing nearly 15 lbs. Of pine-apples, the new and curious sorts are generally inferior in flavour to the old kinds; as the queen, oval-shaped, and of gold colour, and the black Antigua, with pale yellow flesh. In preparing to serve a pine-apple, first remove the crown, by placing round it a napkin, and twisting it out, and then cut the fruit with the pine-knife into horizontal slices; these being served, the scales and rind are pared off by the guest. Pine-apples may be kept a considerable time by twisting off their crowns, which are generally suffered to remain and live upon the fruit, till they have sucked out nearly all the goodness. Pine-apples at Singapore (says Lord Jocelyn), although not equal to those of English hot-house growth, bear no comparison, from their superior flavour, with the same fruit of either East or West Indian growth. Here they are in such abundance that captains of ships frequently purchase them by cartloads to scour their decks ; which, from the acidity they possess, they have the property of whitening. We may add that the acridity of some of the early imported economical pines had a similar effect upon the mouths of the eaters. Of melons, the darkest outside, deepest tint in the flesh, and moderate size, have the highest flavour; the netted and knobbed kinds are rich, sweet, and juicy. The winter melons should be hung up in nets in a dry room. Melons, according to Lieutenant Burnes, are finer in Bokhara