Hints for the Table. 42 flakes, and its rich glutinous skin is delicious; it is in greatest perfection about Christmas, and the larger the ling the better. The sea bream is rather a despised fish, and has been sold as low as half-a-crown per cwt. Its more ordinary flavour may, however, he materially improved by the following mode of dressing it. When thoroughly clean, wipe the fish di-y, but do not take off any of the scales. Then broil it, tm-ning it often, and if the skin cracks, flour it a little to keep the outer case entire. When on table, the whole skin and scales turn off with- out difficulty; and the muscle beneath, saturated with its own natural juices, which the outside covering has retained, will be found of good flavour.— Yarrell's British Fishes. MULLET. Bed M/ullet.—Great surprise has often been expressed upon the number and cheapness of red mullets in the London market in certain seasons: it arises from a circumstance thus explained, a gentleman in the west of England, noticing that the mackerel and red mullet arrived on the coast together, and that there was a large fishery of the former and none of the latter, endeavoured to find out the reason: he ascertained that the red mullet ob- tained its food from the mackerel, and, consequently, they swam lower; he therefore directed the fishermen to have a deeper seine net, by which means they will be enabled to take both kinds at the same time. Red mullet are most plentiful in May and June, at which time their colours are most vivid, and the fish, as food, in the best condition. The red mullet (soldiers as they have been called), are some- times bought on our western coast for sixpence each; and the large ones (called sergeants), for eighteen-pence. Indeed, so cheap have they been, that it was no uncommon thing to see an epicure taking the liver out of his mullet to apply it as sauce to his John Dory, leaving the flesh to more vulgar palates. What would the Romans have said to this ? Pliny records that one gentleman, Asinius Celer, gave eight thousand nummi (between 64^. and 65Z. sterling) for one mullet. The Romans had mullet cooked in crystal vases, that they might watch the beautiful colours of the fish, varying imder the hand of death, and shooting transiently along to please the eye of epicures. The flesh of mullet is white, firm, and of good flavour; and being free from fat, is easy of digestion. A large mullet may be cut into fillets, and fried, and served with sliced cucumber. The livers are the only sauce to be eaten with mullet; and