Keeping TouUry and Game. 75 To tell an old rabbit from a young one, and vice versd, press the knee-joint of the fore-leg with the thumb; when the heads of the two bones which form the joints are so close together that little or no space can be perceived between them, the rabbit is an old one. If, on the contrary, there is a perceptible separation between the two bones, the rabbit is young; and more or less so, as the two bones are more or less separated.—Nimrod. Warren rabbits only ought to be sent to a good table, tamo rabbits, in general, having no flavour but that of cabbage. In the country, where rabbits are abundant, use the fillets for the dining-room, and make a kitchen pie or pudding with the legs and shoulders. TIME FOE KEEPING POULTEY AND GAME. In Summer. In Winter. Hare ... 6 days. Eabbit 2 ... 4 Pheasant 4 ... 10 Yoimg fat Pullet 4 ... 10 Partridge 2 ... 6 to 8 Turkey, Duck, Groosc 2 ... 6 Capon 3 ... 6 Chickens 2 ... 4 Young Pigeons 2 ... 4 When the weather is moist or rainy, the articles must be kept somewhat less time. If at any time feathered game has become tainted, pick and draw the birds as soon as possible, and immerse them in new milk. Let them remain in this until next day, when they will be quite sweet and fit for cooking. The milk must be thrown away. Game (birds) should be hung by the neck and not by the feet,. as is commonly done. Hares should he dressed when blood di’ops from the nose. The fishy flavour of wild fowl may be prevented by first boiling them in water in which are salt and onions. Game or wild fowl for two or three are, however, never better than when broiled. The efiect of keeping game is not only to make it tenderer, but likewise to bring out its flavour, which tends in another way to promote digestion. Nothing is more tasteless than a pheasant cooked too soon, or has a finer flavour after hanging a proper length of time. No doubt, this flavour, while it gratifies the- palate, assists digestion, by sympathetically exciting the sto- mach.—Mayo. If game be wrapped in a cloth, moistened with pure pyro- ligneous acid and water in equal proportions, it will keep good for many days during the hottest weather.