Hints for the Table. 172 seldom had any good wine, though lie paid for it tlie best price. Tlie royal table was thus ill supplied, till one day, the Prince of Wales dining with the king at Windsor, tasted the claret, and pronounced sentence upon it: he did more, for he informed his father of the manner in which his wine-merchant had treated him, and the abuse was forthwith corrected. Queen Charlotte by no means re.sembled her consort in the above respect: no woman in the kingdom enjoyed herself more at table, or manifested a nicer taste in wine. The magnificent fdte given by the Prince Eegent, at Carlton- house, in the year 1811, was the only e.xperiment ever made at any court of Europe to give a supper to 2000 of the nobility and gentry. The largest entertainment at the most brilliant period of the French monarchy, was that given by the Prince of Conde to the King of Sweden, at Chantilly, when the covers only amounted to 400; while, at the fete given by the Prince Regent, covers were laid for 400 in the palace, and for 1600 more in pavilions, in the gardens. Some readers ma^' recollect the lavish expenditure on this occasion ; and the puerile taste of a stream with gold and silver fish flowing down the centre of the table. Plainness of taste has distinguished the sovereigns of our times in their retirement, George IV. generally dined in his private salle-a-manger, in Windsor-castle,* at nine o’clock, and not un- frequently alone. The table-service, on such occasions, was mostly of white and brown china, and not of silver, as has been stated. A roast fowl was the favoui-ite dish with William IV.; and a Mack bottle of sherry was uniformly placed on the table near his majesty. At the grand civic banquet to our gracious queen in the Guildhall, by the City of London, in 1837, her majesty par- took only of turtle and roast mutton; wines, sherry and claret. Napoleon I. was a very fast eater. At a grand convert at the Tuileries, from the moment he and his guests sat down, till the * The royal plate at 'Windsor is kept in one tolerably sized room and an adjoining closet, and valued at 1,760,000^. sterling ! There is one gold service, formed by George IV., to dine 130 guests; some pieces were taken from the Spanish Armada, some broiwht from India, Burmah, China, &c. One vessel belonged to Charles XII. of Sweden, and another to the King of Ava; a peacock of precious stones, valued at 30,000h; and a tiger’s head (Tippoo’s footstool), with a solid ingot of gold for his tongue, and crystal teeth; numerous and splendidly ornamented gold shimds, one made from snuff-boxes, value 8000 guineas; and thirty dozen of plates, which cost 26 guineas each plate. The magnificent silver wine- cboler, made by Ilundell and Bridge for George IV., is enclosed with plate-glass: its superb chasing and other ornamental work occupied two years, and two full-grown persons may sit in it without inconvemenee.