153 National Dinners. sour mustard, with a profusion of fermented red cabbage; boiled carp; light and savoury ball puddings swimming in a bowl of oiled butter, and eaten with compote de pommes. Chevretdl piqui au lard is, perhaps, next introduced; followed bjr tided fish. Next, boiled capon, with fried parsley roots, hot and hissing from the pan. Dutch cheese, pears, sponge biscuits, coffee and liqueur, follow: and the charge for such a repast is eighteen- pence ! A dinner at Langenschwalbach, in Nassau, according to Sir Francis Head, is an odd affair:— “ After soup, which all the world over is the alpha of the gourmand’s alplia- bet, the barren meat from which the said soup has been extracted, is- produced: of course, it is dry, tasteless, withered-looking stuff, which a G.’osvenor-square cat would not touch wth his whiskers; but this dish is always attended by a couple of satellites—the one a quantity ot cucumbers stewed in vinegar, the other a black, greasy sauce; and, it you dare to accept a piece of tliis flaccid beef, and decline the indigestiblo cucumber, souse comes into your plate a deluge of the sickening grease. After the company have eaten heavily of messes which it would be im- possible to describe, in comes some nice salmon—then fowls—then pud- dings—then meat again—then stewed fruit—and, after the English stranger has fallen back in his chair, quite beaten, a leg of mutton majes- tically makes its appearance.” Epicurism is the great business of the Viennese, from the noble to the working-man. A fine fat capon from the fertile valley of Styria, and a flask of genuine Hungarian wine, are more acceptable than the most liberal constitution; and a Bohemian pheasant, garnished with sauer-kraut and salmi di Milano, more palatable than the production of the most able pen. Hungary, only a few miles distant, furnishes excellent wines Gratz, in Styria, sends armies of capons; W^irtemberg and Bavaria myriads of fat snails; Trieste transports sea fish in ice across the Alps; while the Danube supplies plenty of fresh- water fish. Captain Basil Hall thus describes the dinner of a Hungarian magnate:— “We had first of all coldish, duty-looking, thin soup; then a plate of ill- cut slices of ill-salted tongue; and after a dreary interval, a dish of slices of boiled beef, very cold, very fat, and very tough. The next dish promised better: it was a salmon, twisted into a circle, with his tail in liis mouth, liko the allegorical image of eternity. But if I were to live, as the Americans say, from July to eternity, I should not wish to look upon the like of such a fish again. Yet, its bones were so nicely cleaned, that the skeleton might have been placed in a museum of natural history. Next arrived a dish of saixsagcs, which disappeared in the twinkling of an eye. Lastly, came the- roast, but instead of a jolly English sirloin or haunch, the dish consisted of what they facetiously called venison—but such venison! Yet, had the.- original stag been alive from which this morsel was hewn, it could not have moved oil’ faster. To wind up all, instead of a dessert, we were pro-