127 Icing Wines. nious though simple mechanism, in a cam or eccentric acting on a sextant. By this means the bottle is sustained as it is raised,— the action of the cam following the motion of the hand—and thus the person decanting is enabled to rest at will during the opera- tion. Not only is this Machine sufficient at all points, but it has the great merit of demanding no more time or skill than the primitive, clumsy, and destructive method ordinarily practised. Not a movement is exacted in the use of the Elutriator which would not be required without it. We think this Machine will be valuable also where wine (as prevalent in France) is taken at once from the original bottle to the drinking glass. By slightly releasing the cam, to stop the flow when the glass is fiUed, the last drop of bright wine may be taken from the lightest or muddiest “ deposit.” Bachelors who have no decanter at hand will appreciate this. Henceforth, therefore, we may drink wine in “ condition.” ICING WINES, ETC. The choicest wines are ordinarily iced; whereas (with the ex- ception of wine which gains strength by cold), common wines only should be iced; and even they would be better if merely cooled with water, which always gives sufficient coolness to wine, even at the hottest temperature of the dog-days. But, it is not only that we should avoid icing wines that are choice; each different kind requires a different degree of cold and warmth. Thus, claret, when just brought out of the cellar, has not that soft and delicious flavour which gives this wine its peculiar value. Before drinking it, the bottle should be placed where it may imbibe a degree of warmth. In winter, wine-drinkers always place it before the fire; but Burgundy should be drunk fresh from the cellar. Sprinklings of salt ai-e sometimes added to ice when it is put into the house, with the view of preserving it; but this is an erroneous notion, unless it be supposed that, by the abstraction of the latent heat from some of the ice dissolved by the salt, a greater degree of cold is produced to solidify the remainder. Salt is altogether unnecessary; if ice do not keep without, it cannot be preserved with such an application. Confectioners use salt to dissolve not preserve the ice, because a much more in- tense degree of cold is generated during the solution than if the pieces of ice remained uiidissolved.—Main. When ice cannot be obtained, either of the two following powders may be substituted for it, viz., equal parts of mm-iate of ammonia and nitre, powdered and mixed; or, nitrate of ammonia in powder. In employing them to cool a bottle of champagne, place it to the neck in a vessel of the coldest pump-water that