Lobsters.—Trmons. 55 witli condiments and without condiments; oysters for breakfast, dinner, and supper; oysters without stint or limit—fresh as the fresh air, and nhnost as abundant—are daily offered to the palates of the Manhattancse, and appreciated with aU the gratitude which such a bounty of nature ought to inspire. The epicures of Cape Town journey 300 miles, to Mossel Bay, to enjoy a feast of the delicious oysters found there. A humorous writer in the North British Review remarks:— It has been often said that he must have been a bold man who &st ate an oyster. This is said in ignorance of the legend which assigns the first act of oyster-eating to a very natm'al cause. It is related that a man walking one day picked up one of these savom-y bivalves, just as it was in the act of gaping. Observing the extreme smoothness of the interior of the shell, he insinuated his finger between them that he might feel their shining surface, when suddenly they closed upon the exploring digit, with a sensation less pleasurable than he anticipated. The prompt withdrawal of his finger was scarcely a more natmral movement than its transfer to his mouth. It is not very clear why people when they hurt their fingers put them into their mouth; but it is very certain that they do; and in this case the result was most fortunate. The owner of the finger tasted oyster juice for the first time, as the Chinaman in EHa’s essay having burnt his finger first tasted crackling. The savour was delicious; he had made a great discovery; so he picked up the oysters, forced open the shells, ban- queted upon their contents, and soon brought oyster-eating into fashion. And unlike most fashions, it has never gone and is never hkely to go out. LOBSTERS AND CRABS.—PRAWNS AND SHRIMPS. Lobsters and Crabs sbould not be chosen by their size: for a thin crab will appear as large as a fat one, from the stomach being formed on a kind of skeleton, and, therefore, not falling in when empty. The heaviest are the best, and those of middling size are sweetest. The speculation in Lobsters is very great. Thus, suppose 2000 lobsters to be received in London on a Monday in May, and the}"^ would probably sell for 80^.; whereas, if10,000 should be brought into the market on the following day, they would sell for only 160^.! In 1816, one fish-salesman in London is known to have lost 1200^. per week, for six weeks, by lobsters! To stew a Lobster in the Irish way, cut, break, and pick a boiled lobster, and put it into a stewpan with a mixture of mus- tard, vinegar, and cayenne pepper, and a good-sized piece of floured butter; cover it, and simmer five minutes, when throw in a glass of sherry or Madeira; boil up, and serve garnished with sliced lemon. In Ireland a lobster is thus cooked in a dis- patcher, over a spirit lamp, before the company. Mr. Michael Angelo Titmarsh, in his Irish Sketch-hooh, greatly extols this dish: “ porter is commonly drunk with it, and whisky punch afterwards.”