Pates tie Foie Gras. G5 to table with the first course, and let remain there between the two courses. By this means, the epicure and dainty eater alway.s has something before him : the pies are not at all in the way, but improve the appearance of the table.— Tide. Eaised pie of vegetables—an exquisite dish—may be enjoyed in perfection from May to August. Patties, vols-au-vent, and savoury pies, should be dished upon a napkin. In making a partridge or pigeon pie, put a beefsteak over as well as under the birds, and place them with their breasts down- wards in the dish. Strasbourg pates cannot be prepared without the livers of geese; and there is a strange admixture of cruelty and humour in the following defence of what was stated to be the mode of obtaining the livers of the requisite size: “ It is necessary,” says a writer in the Almanack des Gourmands, “ to sacrifice the person of the animal. Crammed with food, deprived of drink, and fixed near a great fire, before which he is nailed by his feet upon a plank, this goose passes, it must be owned, an uncomfortable life. The torment would be altogether intolerable, if the idea of the lot that awaits him did not serve as consolation. But this prospect makes him endure his sufferings with courage; and when he re- flects that his liver, bigger than himself, larded with truffles, and clothed in a scientific p&te, will diffuse all over Europe the glory of his name, he resigns himself to his destiny, and suffers not a tear to flow.” Hence epicures began to feel some qualms of conscience for indulging in these luxuries, obtained by such cruel means; when Alexis Soyer, the famed cuisinier, visited Strasbourg, and in a letter to the Courriet' dw Has Hliin set the whole matter right. He says : “After having carefully examined the subject, I can declare that there is not a word of truth in the general belief. Up to the ago of eight months, the geese are allowed to feed at full liberty in the open air; they are then brought to market, and purchased by the persons wliosc occupation it is to fatten them for killing: they are placed in coops, and fed for about a month or five weeks three times a-day with wheat, and allowed as much water as they please. Each bird eats about a bushel of corn during the process of fattening; and the water of Strasbourg, it i.s said, contributes to increase the volume of the liver. 'iVlien sufficiently fat, they are killed, having been treated with the greatest attention and humanity during the whole period of their incarceration, and entirely removed from any unusual heat.”* Meat puddings and pies may be much improved by a whole onion, or a flap-mushroom, or a few oysters. The old practice of boiling a fowl in a bladder with oysters is discontinued. * See Popular Errors Explained and Illustrated. New Edition, p. 80. S