108 Hints for the Talle. kinds are mostly fumigated with sulplmr, and thus made to resemble externally those of the current season. Filberts are thus preserved in Turkey:—When quite ripe, remove the husks, and rub the nuts dry with a coarse cloth; sprinkle a little salt in a stone jar, then place a layer of filberts, adding a small quantity of salt between each layer; tie the jar •over, keep it in a dry place, and in six months the filberts may be easily peeled. If walnuts be shrivelled, soak them in milk and water for about eight hours before serving them, and they will become plump, and peel easily. Chestnuts are heavy', and difficult of digestion. But their digestibility is much increased by the perfectness with which they are roasted and masticated. Boasted chestnuts should be served very hot, in a folded napkin. Chestniits are sold at the corners of every street in Florence, in seven different forms; raw, cooked, and hot, both roasted and boiled; dried by heat (the skins being taken off), in which state they have a much sweeter and superior flavour; made into bread, a stiff sort of pudding, and into thin cakes, like pancakes. By the confectioners of Paris they are sold peeled, baked, and iced with sugar, as “ Marrons glacis.” PIGS AND DATES. The fig, even in a perfectly dry state, is about as nutritious as rice. In the moist state, as imported, the fig will go considerably further in feeding and fattening than an equal weight of wheaten bread.—J. F. W. Johnston. Dates were formerly little esteemed in England, as they were dry and old when imported, in which condition they would scarcely' be used in the countries where they grow. The best dates ai'e, however, firm, soft and fleshy, and when fresh, possess a delicious fragrance and perfume; they are also sugary, and very nourish - ing. The Ai'abs say that a good housewife will daily furnish her lord, for a month, a dish of dates differently dressed. This test of domestic economy reminds one of a clever man, who chose liis wife by her making an apple-pudding. Brazil nuts are very delicious when fresh ; but, unfortunately, 'they are apt to become rancid, on account of the great quantity of oil which they' contain, which is well suited for lamps. THE ORANGE. The orange is a magnificent fruit. In the Azores (as in St. Michael), it requires but seven years to bring an orange planta- tion to good bearing; and each tree, a few years after arriving