43 Mullet.—Dory.—Lampreys. Apicius had a method of suffocating the fish in the garum sociorum, and afterwards making a rich sauce of their livers. The cookery books make no distinction in dressing the red and grey mullet; though the former is cooked woodcock fashion, without drawing, so delicate is the fish. The Grey Mullet is, hy no means, a fashionable fish; yet we remember to have been asked Is. Qd. for a couple of small ones by a Brighton fishmonger. The river Arun has, from time im- memorial, been famed for its grey mullet. Sussex is celebrated for six good things:—a Chichester lobster, a Selsey cockle, an Arundel (grey) mullet, a Pulborough eel, an Amberley trout, and a Eye herring. THE DOBT. The Dory is found in greatest abundance on the southern coasts of Devon and Cornwall; it is in best season from Michaelmas to Christmas, but is good all the year round. Just about the collar- bones is the prettiest picking, and there are delicious morsels about the head. Large dories are best boiled; the smaller ones fried. The Dories of Plymouth and Brighton are very fine. The Dory, and, indeed, all sea fish, to be eaten in perfection, should be boiled in sea-water. On one occasion, on Quin’s return from Plymouth to Bath, he sent directions to the laiadlord of the principal inn at Ivybridge to procure one of the finest dories on the day he expected to arrive there; and that it might he di-essed in perfection, he had a cask of sea water strapped behind his carriage; but it unfortunately happened that no dory could be procured; when so annoyed was Quin, that notwithstanding an excellent dinner had been provided for him, he refused to partake of it, or even to enter the inn, and casting his water-cask adrift, proceeded on his journey dinnerless! Quin went so far as to eat the livers of mullet (rejecting the body) as sauce for his Dory. He thought the inhabitants of Ply- mouth ought to be the happiest of mankind, from their abundant supply of dories and mullet; but when he visited Plymouth, he found, to his di.sgust, that although the people had some notion of cooking fish, they were ignorant of the art of melting butter. LAMPEEVS. The Lamprey was a pet fish with the ancients; Antonia, the wife of Drusus, hung the gills of a lamprey with jewels and ear- rings; Licinius Croesus fed his lampreys in a vivarium; and Quintius Hortensius is said to have wept at the death of one of his dear fish. One of our kings, Henry I., died from eating too largely of lampreys; by ancient custom, the city of Gloucester,