Table Anecdotes. 177 Here are a few choice specimens of Talleyrand’s table wit: Talleyrand beings asked, if a certain authoress, whom he had lono- since known, but who belonged rather to the last age, was not°“ a little tiresome ?” “ Not at all,” said he, “ she was per- fectly tiresome.” A o'entleman in company was one day making a somewhat zealous eulogy of his mother’s beauty, dwelling upon the topic at uncalled-for length—he himself having certainly inherited no portion of that kind under the marriage of his parents. “ It was your father, then, apparently, who may not have been very well favoured,” was Talleyrand’s remark, which at once released the circle from the subject. When Madame de Stael published her celebrated novel of “Delphine,” she was supposed to have painted herself in the person of the heroine, and M. Talleyrand in that of an elderly lad}"^, who is one of the principal characters. “ They tell me,” said he, the first time he met her, “ that we are both of us in your novel, in the disguise of women.” Kulhieres, the celebrated author of the work on the Polish revolution, having said, “ I never did but one mischievous work in my life.” “ And when will it be ended ?” was Talleyrand’s repl}\ “ Is not Geneva dull P” asked a friend of Talleyrand. “ Espe- cially when they amuse themselves,” was the reply. “ She is insupportable,” said Talleyrand, with marked emphasis, of one well-known; but, as if he had gone too far, and to take something off what he had said, he added, “ It is her only defect.” “ Ah ! I feel the torments of hell,” said a person, whose life had been supposed to be somewhat of the loosest. “Ah'eady ?” was the inquiry suggested to M. Talleyrand. Certainly, it came naturally to him. It is, however, not original; the Cardinal de Eetz’s physician made a similar exclamation on a like occasion. Nor ought we to pass over the only mot that will ever be re- corded of Charles X., uttered on his return to France, in 1814, on seeing, like our second Charles on a similar reception, that the adversaries of his family had disappeared—“ There is only one Frenchman the more.” This was the suggestion of M. Talley- rand. He aftei’wards proposed, in like manner, to Charles’s suc- cessor, that the foolish freaks of the Duchess de Berri should be visited with this rescript to her and her faction : “ Madame, no hope remains for you. You will be tried, condemned and par- doned.” Ude, when in Paris, had fallen in love, and matters were nearly brought to matrimony. Previous to this conclusion, Udo, N