24 Ilhifs for the Talle. cods’ head and shoulders make the iiivariahlo fish; and Hour entries, without flavour or pretence, are duly supplied by the pastry-coolc, and carefully eschewed by the host.” Bulwer makes one of his novel-heroes let his villa to his wine- merchant; the rent just pays his hill. “You will taste some of the sofas and tables in his champagne! I don’t know how it is, but I always fancy my sherry smells like my poor uncle’§ old leather chair; very odd smell it had—a kind of respectable smell.’” The Table. CiECULAE Dining and Supper Tables are gradually coming into fashion, so as, in imagination, to revive the chivalric glory of the “ Bound Table.” An expanding table of this form has recently' been invented, the sections of which may be caused to diverge from a common centre, so that the table ma}' be enlarged or ex- panded by inserting leaves, or pieces, in the openings, or spaces, caused by such divergence. An immense table has been con- structed upon this principle for Devonshire House; it consists of some dozen pieces. This novelty in the table has given rise to a new form of table-cloth manufacture, of great costliness and beautiful design. The setting of the loom for a cloth for a large circular table is stated to have cost £70. Tables Volantes (flying tables), are understood to have been invented under the eye of Louis XV. “ At the petits-soiipers of Choisy were first introduced those admirable pieces of mechauism, which descended and rose again, covered with viands and wines.” ■—{Notes to Rogers's Roems.) This singular contrivance was, we believe, introduced by Mr. Beckford, at Bonthill, the praudial appointments of which were in luxurious style. Though ]\Ir. Beckford rarely entertained any society, yet he had his table sumptuously covered daily. He has beeu known to give orders for a dinner for twelve persons, and to sit down alone to it, attended by twelve servants in full dress—eat of one dish, and send all the rest away. There was no bell in the mansion; the servants waiting by turns in the ante-rooms. The management of an epergne, plateau, or centre-piece, pre- sents an opportunity for the display of taste; as these superb ornaments are usually of beautiful forms, richly chased: the glass-pieces and the plate should be alike in brilliant order. If dinner-rolls be not used, bread should not be cut less than one inch and a half thick. A judicious arrangement of dishes gives additional merit to a dinner, and the entries of any appearance should be always parallel: it adds wonderfully to the effect.