Game. 71 The larger ducks are the commonest variety, which has been introduced from France, and is thence called the Rhone duck. When ducks arc old, keeping them a few days will make them tender. The influence of food on the flavour of the flesh of many animals is notorious. At certain seasons, the wild-ducks of this country are scarcely eatable from their rank, fishy taste: the same may be said of the heath-cock of Germany, where the juniper berries are abundant; and the American pheasants, when they feed on the kalmia, have proved to be poisonous to man.—- Bui'nett. GAME, ETC. Black game have increased greatly in the southern counties of Scotland and north of England, within the last few years. It is a pretty general opinion, though an erroneous one, that they drive away the red grouse; the two species require a very diflTerent kind of cover, and will never interfere.—Sir W. Jardine. Black-cock should be dressed before a bright fire, be well basted, and not overdone. Ten minutes before serving, make a round of toast, squeeze over it a lemon, and then lay it in the dripping-pan; place the birds upon this toast for table, and serve with melted butter only, as highly-seasoned gravy destroys the true flavour' of black-cock. Tbe flesh of the black grouse is much esteemed. The different colour of the flesh of the pectoral muscles must have struck every one. The internal layer, which is remarkably white, is esteemed the most delicate portion. Belon goes so far as to say, that the- three pectoral muscles have three different flavours: the first that of beef, the second that of partridge, and the third that of pheasant. Pheasants are only fit to be eaten when the blood begins to run, from the bill, which is commonly in six days or a week after they have been killed. Broiled partridges may be served with poor man’s sauce and Indian pickle. Old partridges are only fit for stewing with cab- bage, for stock broth, and glaze of game; but are too tough foi' anything fine. The pochard or dun bird is a novelty among game. It is a species of wild fowl supposed to come from the Caspian Sea, and is caught only in a single decoy in Essex, in the month of January, in the coldest years. The flesh of the pochard is ex- quisitely tender and delicate, but has little of the common wild- duck flavour; it is best eaten in its own gravy, which is plen- tiful, without either cayenne or lemon-juice. Wilson considers the American pochard to rank next to the canvass-back duck.