99 Varieties of Cheese. Cheese and Butter. The practice of mixing herbs (as sage) in cheese, is as old as the time of Charlemagne. The mosaic arms upon such cheese are essentially feudal. Old cheese, taken in small quantities, after dinner, is an excel- lent digester, by causing chemical changes among the particles of food previously eaten, and thus facilitating the dissolution which necessarily precedes digestion. The fine powder which we perceive upon a decaying cheese, and which is so highly prized by the gourmand, proceeds from the grubs of the cheese-mite. The finest cream cheese is that of Cottenham and Southam, in Cambridgeshire; Banbury, Bath, and York. To improve a new Stilton cheese, scoop out a few samples of it, and fill the spaces with samples taken from an old cheese, con- fining blue mould: cover up the cheese for a few weeks, and it will become impregnated with the mould, and have the flavour of a ripe old one. The new samples, if put into the old cheese, will be changed vice-versd. The cheese of this country, known by the name of “ Trent Bank,” is a good substitute for Parmesan. Pai-mesan cheese is made in the country between Cremona and Lodi, the richest part of the Milanese. The milk of at least 50 cows is required for one cheese; and, as one farm rarely aflbrds pasture for such a number, it is usual for the farmers to club together: the best kind of cheese is kept for three or four years before it is taken to mai'ket. Schabziger cheese is principally made at Liirthal, in the canton of Glarus. The herb {Kle) gives the flavour and green colour, and having been chded and powdered, is gi-ound in a mill with the curd, and then made into shapes, and dried. Cheese, when stewed with ale, is much easier of digestion than when toasted. The only post-prandial item at the Beef-Steak Society is a stew of cheese in a silver dish. There is a popular notion that “butter h biliouswhich means that it increases the secretion of bile to an inconvenient degree. This may probably be the case with some dyspeptics; but when used in moderation, butter has certainly not this effect with the majority of persons. The substitution of orange mar- malade for butter at breakfast, though strongly recommended by certain manufacturers, is by no means desirable; as so powerful a bitter cannot be taken frequently with advantage. Butter may be kept cool in hot weather by placing the diau or pot in cold spring water, in which a little saltpetre is dissolved.