179 Table Anecdotes. absolutely necessary for him to despatch a special messenger im- mediately : then seizing a pen, he wrote this billet to his cook: “ Sauvez les entremets—les entrSes sent perdues.” Mr. Wellesley Pole Used to say, that it was impossible to- live like a gentleman in England under 40,000Z. a year; and Mr. Brummell told a lady how much she ought to allow her son for dress—that it might be done for 800Z. a year, with strict economy. M. Senior, in an excellent Essay on Political Economy,, in the 'Encyclopcedia Metropolitana, states, that a carriage for a woman of fashion must be regarded as one of the necessaries of life; and we presume he would be equally imperative in demand- ing a cabriolet for a man.— Q^narterly Review. When Dr. Johnson was asked why he was not invited out to- dine as Garrick was, he answered, as if it was a triumph to him, “ Because great lords and ladies don’t like to have their mouths stopped!” But who does like to have his mouth stopped ? Did he, more than others ? People like to be amused in general; but they did not give him the less credit for ^visdom, and a capacity to instruct them by his writings. In like manner it has been said that the king only sought one interview with Dr. Johnson ; whereas, if he had been a buffoon or a sycophant, he would have asked for more. No; there was nothing to complain of. It was a compliment paid by rank to letters, and once was enough. The king was more afraid of this interview than Dr. Johnson was, and went to it as a schoolboy to his task. But he did not want to have this trial repeated every day; nor was it necessary. The- very jealousy of his self-love marked his respect; and if he had thought less of Dr. Johnson, he would have been more willing to i-isk the encounter. They had each their place to fill, and would best preserve their self-respect, and perhaps their respect for each other, by remaining in their proper sphere. So they made an outcry about the Prince leaving Sheridan to die in absolute want. He had left him long before. Was he to send every day to know if he was dying ? These things cannot be helped, without ex- acting too much of human natme.—Northcote's Conversations. A nice point is thus settled in Roswell’s Life of Rr. Johnson.. —Roswell, “ I consider distinction of rank to be of so mirch importance in civilized society, that if I were asked on the same- day to dine with the fia-st duke in England, and with the first man in Britain for genius, I should hesitate which to prefer.”— Johnson. “ To be sure, sir, if you were to dine only once, and it were never to be known whei’e you dined, you would choose rather to dine with the first man for genius; but, to gain respect, you should dine with the first duke in England. For nine people in ten that you meet with would have a higher opinion of you for