82 llhits for the Table. the white remains liquid; a result in direct opposition to the changes in boiling the eggs of birds. The fins of the turtle make a luxurious side dish. The fins of the turbot are likewise much esteemed. Turtle may be enjoyed in steaks, cutlets, or fins; and—as soup, clear smipurSe—at the Albion, London, and Freemasons’, and other large taverns. “ The Ship and Turtle Tavern,” Nos. 129 and 130, Leadenhall-strcet, is especially famous for its turtle; and from this establishment several of the West-end club-houses ai'e supplied. Of coui'se, Turtle, like everything else in this lower world, has its degrees of excellence; but the amphibious delicacy is rarely to be obtained in puris naturalihus, in this country: that is, the soup is excellent, but it is not turile, per se. I admit it (says a writer in the New Ilonthli/ Magazine), to he a ricli and savoury compound, in which some savouiw morceaux of its godfather may occasionally be found floating; but the suscitatinp; juices with which the accidental luxury is presented to us, are extracted from the hinder- legs of a calf and an ox; the foundation, in fact, is composed of veal and beef, and a masterly introduction of appetizing condiments, which are both palatable and pleasing; but, believe me, it is no more like the turtle soup of the Western hemisphere, than pea-soup, made from that delicate vegetable in the spring, is to a nankeen-coloured mess concocted in the winter, bearing the same name. The truth is, the tm-tle is too expensive a delicacy to warrant such a lavish expenditure of its succulent nourish- ment, and the luscious troasm’e is husbanded accordinglj'. In the West Indies, cest une autre affaire: the turtle are too plentiful to require the meretricious aid of stock and gravy. Tliere, the whole is consumed for soup, excepting the callipee; and I need scarcely add, it is exquisitely delicious. A turtle of eighty to one hundred pounds, is con- sidered, by all right-judging epicures, to be the proper size and growth for perfect eating; and will furnish a satisfactory repast for some ton or a dozen lovers of this delicacy; although I have known tlmee turtles to be slain for a regular turtle-feast in one of the Caribbean Islands; viz., a chicken tm'tle for steaks, than which a juvenile fowl is not more delicate; one of a hundred for soup and stewed fins; and a large lien turtle for eggs, and callipash, or stew, and from which also the ncvcr-to-be-sutli- ciently-laudcd green fat is;pilfered, to fill up any deficiency in the supply for the tureen. Gentle reader, if you have any accidental acquaintances, cultivate them, by all means, to the utmost extent in your power; they are kind, open-hearted, and liberal to a fault; and if, perchance, they send you a turtle of the true breed, take my advice, do not think of dress- ing it at your own house (for which you will insure the gratitude of 3'our cook), but send it to the Albion, the London Tavern, or Birch; and in return, they will, any one of them, send you sufficient soup for three or four parties. Give them the turtle, and whenever you wish to entertain a select few of the lovers of good eating, you can command a liberal supply of matchless soup, without the trouble or expense that would have attended the abortive attempts of your own servant for one entertainment.