61 Teal.—Mutton. whilst the other is a lump of meat near the bone and fat at the other end, which pai'tly melts in cooking, and is often burnt by the flame it makes; the new one not being divided at the bone, keeps the gravy in admirably. If well sawed, it should not weigh more than the ordinary one, being about half the thickness.—The Modem Housewife. VEAL. Veal is perhaps move used in the French Kitchen than any other meat. In England, there is no better show of veal than at Oiim bridge, on market-day. Ude considers a sirloin of vetd far preferable to a fillet, than which nothing is drier. That part of veal is always best for fricandeaux, which is inter- mixed with fat. MUTTON. Prime mutton is at least five years old, has a very brown outer skin, very small nerves, and small grain, and yields brown | . ... I In Earl Cowper’s establishment, mutton is never killed till it | is six years old; and this meat is very superior both in quality |!: and flavour. | Mutton killed in Leadenhall market, and preserved in a cask 4 of sugar, has been eaten in India, after a six months’ voyage, as fresh as the day it was placed on the shambles. i|j| The Dartmoor sheep, which produces the esteemed Oakhamp- ton mutton, is a small breed, weighing about 141b. per quarter. !| Mutton to imitate venison should be five or six years old, else |!! the light colour will discover the deception. ilji The saddle of mutton is the most uneconomical joint from the butcher’s shop ; considering the little meat to be cut from it, and ■ the great waste in skin, fat, and bone. The amateur of tender meat will find the under fillets most excellent. A leg of mutton should never be spitted, as the spit will let out the gravy, and leave un unsightly perforation just as you are 1, cutting into the pope’s eye. :'j’ A fillet of mutton, salted for three days, boned, and then , stuffed, half roasted, and stewed in gravy, is an economical luxury. A stewed shoulder of mutton IS excellent. And a roast neck of mutton is a fit dinner for a prince; so thought George IV. f A boiled shoulder of mutton and a boiled duck ai’e excellent ll dishes for a bachelor’s dinner. A broiled blade-bone of mutton is a relishing supper dish. The father of the late Duke of Devonshire had one got ready ! lor him every night at Erookes’s Club-house. i| Lamb is more exquisitely dressed in the Turkish Kitchen than j in that of any other country. 1 1