Preserves, 95 Plum-broth or porridge was eaten as soup at Christmas, at St. James’s, during the reign of George III.; and a portion of it was sent to tlie different officers of his Majesty’s household. The following is a list of the ingredients :— 6 dozen sherry. If soufflds are sent up in proper time, they are very good eating j if not, they are no better than other puddings. The French make a delicate jelly from the juice of very ripe grapes, with a much less proportion of sugar than we employ in our fruit jellies. Calf’s foot jelly is a monotone ; but the sagacity of the cook will, in some re.spect, alter this character, by occa- sionally giving it plain, at other times with grapes, &c., in it. Jelly and jam have been prepared from the tender leaf-stalks of the red rhubarb; their flavour being equal, if not superior, to that of currant jelly. Many years ago Prince Metternich first tasted rhubarb tart in England, and was so pleased with it that he took care to send some plants to his Austrian garden. On the occasion of a large party, in the following year, the Prince ordered rhubarb to be sei-ved up, di’essed as it was in England. His cook knew nothing of English usage, and, selecting the large leaves, served them up as spinach. The guests made wry faces at this English dish, and well they might; and rhubarb was discarded from that time from the Prince’s table. Blackberry jelly, made as currant jelly, is commonly used in the north of England in tarts. A large spoonful in an apple-tart not only colours it, but gives it a sort of plum flavour. Baked pears, of fine crimson colour, and served in cut glass, make an elegant and economical supper dish. Barberries, without stones, make an elegant preserve; and the other kind, with stones, is pretty garnish. The white bullace mostly abounds in Norfolk: it is excellent in tarts, and when preserved by boiling in sugar, it may be kept a year. Magnum-bonum plums are only fit for tarts and sweet- meats. Magnum is right enough; but as to honum, the word has seldom been so completely misapplied.—Cobbett. A plum of recent introduction is likely to supersede some of the 6 suins of beef. 60 fourpenny loaves. Double refined sugar, 601b. 160 lemons and oranges. 6 dozen sack. 6 dozen old hock. Leg of veal, 401b. 401b. raisins. 401b. currants. 301b. prunes. Cochineal. 1 ounce nutmeg. \ oimce cinnamon, i ounce cloves.