79 Sauce Piquante.—Tniffles. Sauces and Gravies. A GOOD sauce, in the phrase of the kitchen, “ tastes of everything, imd tastes of nothing;” that is, all the articles in it are well proportioned, and neither predominates. A sauce made according to the principles ’ of the art, excites and restores the appetite, flatters the palate, is pleasing to the smell, and inebriates all the senses with delight. A noble gourmet once asserted that sauces are to food what action is to oratory; and the Almanacli des Gourmands says—“ A delicious sauce will cause you to eat an elephant.” Dutch sauce is best made with elder or taragon vinegar. When coloured green with parsley extract, a little lemon-juice should he added, else it will turn yellow. Sauce Piquante was made by Michael Kelly, the epicure, as followsPut a table-spoonful of parsley-leaves, and the same of capers, into a mortar, and beat them together; add a table- spoonful of fresh mustard, and three hard yolks of eggs, and properly mix the whole. Then add six anchovies, boned and forced through a sieve; a table-spoonful of vinegar, two of oil, and a finely-chopped shalot, and mix the whole. When to be used, stir the sauce into half a pint of melted butter, or strong beef gravy. Ham extract, made by stewing the bone of a ham with carrots, onions, and herbs, and then stewing the lean meat in the liquor, and straining it, is an expensive affair; but a table-spoonful of the extract will flavour a tureen full of winter pea or carrot-soup, and a teaspooonful in melted butter makes an excellent sauce for roast fowl. Olives, in France, are inti’oduced into sauces for calTs head and fowls; and a duck is served with olive-sauce. For these purposes the olives are turned with a knife, so as to take out the stone, and leave the fruit whole. In choosing truffles, be careful to reject those which have a musky smell.* Garlic or shalot vinegar, a few drops to a pint of gravy, will give one of the finest flavours in cookery. Poor man’s sauce is made by chopping a few shalots very * The art of producing truffles, which has been long sought for, but without success, has, it is said, been discovered at Carpentras, in the department of Vaucluse. An interesting paper on Truffles and Truffle- hunting will be found in Dickens’s Household Words,