Hints for the Talle. 44 as a token of their loyaltj’, present a lamprey pie annually at Christinas to the Sovereign; this is sometimes a costly gift, as lampi'eys at that season can scarcely be procured at a guinea a-piece.* The Lamprey has been historically scandalized as the murcEna ■of the Romans, for it lives entirely by suction, and swims close to the surface of the water, and could not, by the nature of its con- struction, feed near the bottom; consequently, it could not be led on the bodies of slaves, as is recorded of those with which the Emperor Augustus was treated; its food (so far as M. Soyer v/as able to learn from examination of some thousands) consists of small water-insects and animalculiE. M. Soyer enters into the question of the celebrated Roman Sauce with great zest; hear the culinary antiquary:— The garutn was the sauce the most esteemed and the most expensive; its composition is unknown. This is a subject well worth the attention of the epicures of the present day; they should subscribe and offer a pre- mium for that which, in their opinion, may resemble it: it is a subject well worthy the attention of the professors of oim imiversities. Perhaps some leaf yet undiscovered, that may have escaped the conflagration of Alexandria, might throw some light upon so interesting a subject. It appears that mushrooms entered greatly into its composition; and that parts of mackerel, or of that species, formed another. The question is, at what time of the year were mushrooms in season there; and if at that period mackerel, or what species of mackerel have soft roes, as I think it probable that they entered into its composition, as an island near Carthagena, where they were caught, was called Scombraria, and that which was prepared by a company in that town, and which was considered the best, was called Garum Sociorum. The great lamprey is comparatively neglected in London, although it may be taken from the Thames. He who has tasted a well-stewed Gloucester lamprey—our Worcester friends must pardon us—a Gloucester lamprey, will almost excuse the royal ■excess.— Quarterly Review. Lampreys are thus dressed at the Hop-pole, Worcester. Cleanse the fish, remove the tough membrane from the back, put the lampreys into a stewpan, and cover them with strong beef gravy; add a dessert-spoonful of mixed allspice, mace, and cloves, in powder, a spoonful of salt, a few grains of Cayenne pepper, a gill of port wine, the same of sherry, and a table-spoonful of horse- radish vinegar. Cover the pan, and stew gently till the fish are tender; then take them out, and add to the same two anchovies beaten to a paste, and the juice of a lemon; boil it up and strain dt; and, if requisite, thicken it with butter and flour. Warm the * From a very useful and interesting work entitled Fish, Mow to ■Choose, Mow to Mress, By Piscator. Printed at Launceston.