157 National Dinners. seem a savoury repast; but, like virtue, the better you become accjuaiutcd with it the more you are attached to it. It is truo the garlic is apt to impregnate your breath with other than Sabeaii odours; but where all participate, none revolt. Mr. Beckford, who visited the monastery of Alcoba9a, gives the following glowing picture of the kitchen of that magnihcent establishment. “Through the centre of the immense and groined hall, not less than sixty feet in diameter, ran a brisk rivulet of the clearest water, flowing through pierced wooden reservoirs, containing every sort and size of the finest river fish. On one side, loads of game and venison were heaped up; on the other, vegetables and fruit in endless variety. Beyond a long line of stoves extended a row of ovens, and close to them hillocks of wheaten flour, whiter than snow, rocks of sugar, jars of the purest oil, and pastry in vast abundance, which a numerous tribe of lay-brothers and their attendants were rolling out and puff- ing up into a hundred different shapes, singing all the while as blithely as larks in a corn-field!” The banquet is described as including “ exquisite sausages, potted lampreys, strange messes from the Brazils, and others still more strange from China (viz., birds’ nests and sharks’ fins), dressed after the latest mode of Macao, by a Chinese lay-brother. Confectionery and fruits were out of the question here ; they awaited the party in an adjoining still more sumptuous and spacious saloon, to which they retired from the efiluvia of viands and sauces. On another occasion, by aid of Mr. Beckford’s cook, the party sat down to “ one of the most delicious banquets ever vouchsafed a mortal on this side of Mahomet’s paradise. The macedoine was perfection, the ortolans and quails lumps of celestial fatness, the sautes and bechamels beyond praise; and a certain truffle cream was so exquisite, that the Lord Abbot piously gave thanks for it.’’ At Sienna is shown “theHouse of the Brigata Spendereccia,” or “ Godereccia,’’ a club of young men, whose chief object was to collect a pui'se of 209,000 ducats, and spend it in twenty months. Their pheasants were roasted with fires made of cloves, and their horses were shod with silver. Dante has perpetuated the memory of these young prodigals in the 29th chapter of the Inferno. In Lord Clarendon’s essay on the decay of respect paid to old age, he says, that in his younger daj'^s he never kept his hat on before those older than himself, ea;cept at dinner. A Richmond Dinner Three Hundred Years Ago.—We find, in the Lansdowne manuscripts, that about Christmas, 1509, certain officials of the Court of King Henry VIII. dined together at the village of Shene, now called Kichmond, and that, at the end of the entertainment, my host of the Star and Garter, with many