■22 Hints for the Table. 1. Let not the number of the company exceed twelve, that the conver- sation may he constantly general. 2. Let them bo so selected that their occupations shall he varied, their tastes analogous, and with such points of contact that there shall be no necessity for the odious formality of presentations. 3. Let the eating-room be luxuriously lighted, the cloth remarkably ■clean (!), and the atmosphere at the temperature of from thirteen to six- teen degrees Eeaumur. (60 to 68 degrees fahrenheit.) 4. Let the men be spirituels without pretension—the women pleasant without too much coquetry. (‘ I wi-ite,’ says the author, in a note, ‘between the Palais Eoyal and the Chaussde d’Antin.’) 6. Let the dishes be exceedingly choice, but limited in number, and the wines of the first quality, each in its degree. 6. Let the order of progression be, for the first (the dishes), from the most substantial to the lightest; and for the second (the wines), from the ■simplest to the most perfumed. 7. Let the act of consumption be deliberate, the dinner being the last business of the day; and let the guests consider themselves as travellers who are to arrive together at the same place of destination. 8. Let the coffee be hot, and the liqueurs cliose>i by the master. 9. Let the saloon be large enough to admit of a game at cards for those who cannot do without it, and so that there may, notwithstanding, remain space enough for post-meridian colloquy. 10. Let the party be detained by the charms of society, and animated by the hope that the evening will not pass without some ulterior enjoyment. 11. Let the tea be not too strong; let the toast be scientifically buttered, and the punch carefully prepared. 12. Let no retreat commence before eleven, but let everybody be in bed by twelve. Lf any one has been present at a party uniting these twelve requisites, ibe may boast of having been present at his o'wn apotheosis. Lady Morgan has described a dinner by Carbine, at the Baron Eothschild’s villa, near Paris; wherein “ no burnished gold re- flected the glaring sunset, no brilliant silver dazzled the eyes; porcelain, beyond the price of all precious metals, by its beauty and its fragility, every piece a picture, consorted with the gene- ral character of sumptuous simplicity which reigned over the ■whole.” The crowning merit of this splendid repast appeared to he that “ every meat presented its own natural aroma—every vegetable its own shade of verdure.” The accomplished Earl of Dudley said; a good'soup, a small turbot, a neck of venison, ducklings with green peas, or chicken with asparagus, and apricot tart, is a dinner fit for an emperor— when he cannot get a better. Mr. Walker well observes: Anybody can dine, but very few know how to dine so as to ensure the greatest quantity of health .and enjoyment. Indeed many people contrive to destroy their health; and as to enjoyment, I shudder when I think how often