The Dessert. 107 The leaves of peach, nectarine, and apricot trees, as well as the kernels of the 0-uit, give a noyeau flavour by infusion in water, or in spirits; but theii' use is dangerous. APPLES.—PEAKS, ETC. Apples for the table should have a fine juicy pulp, high flavour, regular form, and beautiful colouring; as, the golden reinette, with a fine aromatic, sub-acid flavour; the old nonpareil, of agreeable briskness; and the foreman’s-crew, combining the excellence of the old golden pippin and nonpareil. The Golden Pippin has been considered by some of our modern writers on pomology to be in a state of decay, its fniit of inferior quality in comparison with that of former times, and its exis- tence near its termination. Dr. Lindley, in his Ghdde to the Orchard and Kitchen Garden, says:— “ I cannot for a moment agree with such an opinion, because we have facts anmmlly before our eyes completely at variance with such an asser- tion. Any person visiting Covent Garden or the Borough markets during the fruit season, and indeed any other large market m the southern or midland counties of England, will find specimens of fruit as perfect and as fine as any which have been either figured or described. In favourable situations, in many parts of the country, instead of the trees being in a state of rapid decay, they may be found of unusually large size, perfectly healthy, and their crops abundant; the fruit perfect in form, beautiful in colour, and excellent in quahty. Medlars are not good till they are rotten-ripe: the Dutch apple-shape is the largest and handsomest; but the Nottingham is of superior quality. Biffins are the Norfolk beauffin apples. Many thousands are dried by the bakers in Norwich annually, and sent in boxes to all parts of the country. Pears for dessert should have a sugary, aromatic juice, and soft melting pulp ; as in the beurrSe, or butter pears. Among the summer-kinds are the Jargonelle and Williams’s Bonchr6- tienne; autumn, bergamot, Angouleme, Gansel bergamot, Marie Louise, and Napoleon; winter, Chaumontelle, Colmar, Crasanne, and swan’s egg. Chaumontelle pears are so fine in Jersey as to sell there for five guineas the hundred, each pear weighing about one pound. Two, which were exhibited at the Jersey Horticultural Society^ in 1835, and sent as a present to William IV., weighed 96 oz., or 6 lb. each. Some of the baking pears attain a vast size. Pears may be kept by tipping their stalks with sealing-wax. FILBEETS, WALNUTS, CHESTNUTS. Filberts with red skins have a finer flavour than those with white. The “ Spanish” nuts of the shops are fresh from Spain; the “ Barcelona” being another kind, kiln-dried. Old nuts of all