Hints for the Talk. 28 too heavily, the knife will not cut, you will squeeze out all the gravy, and serve your guests with dry meat. Ude considers a saddle of mutton is usually carved contrary to taste and judgment. “To have the meat in the grain, pass your knife straight to one side of the chine, as close as possible to the bone: then turn the knife straight from you, and cut the first slice out, and cut slices lean and fat. By disengaging the slices from the bone in this manner, it will have a better appear- ance, and you will be able to assist more guests.” If you begin to carve a joint in tlie middle, the gravy will run out on both sides, and the meat shrink and become dry, and no more presentable. Never pour gravy over white meat, as the latter should retain its colour. Of roasted fowl, the breast is the best pai-t; in boiled fowl, the leg is preferable. The shoulder of a rabbit is very delicate; and the brain is a tit-bit for a lady. In helping roast pheasant or fowl, add some of the cresses with which it is garnished. The most elegant mode of helping hare is in fillets, so as not to give a bone, which would be a breach of good manners. There are certain choice cuts or delicacies with which a good carver is acquainted : among them are the sounds of cod-fish, the thin or fat of salmon, the thick and fins of turbot; a portion of the liver and roe to each person; the fat of venison, lamb, and veal kidney; the long cuts, and gravy from “ the alderman’s walli” of a haunch of venison or mutton; the pope’s eye in a leg of mutton; the oyster cut of a shoulder of mutton; the ribs and neck of a pig; the breast and wings of a fowl; back pieces, ears, and brains of a hare; the breast and thighs, (without the di'um- sticks,) of turkey and goose ; the legs and breast of a duck; the wings, breast, and back of game. Before cutting up a wild duck, slice the breast, and pour over the gashes a few spoonsful of sauce, composed of port wine or claret (warmed), lemon juice, salt, and cayenne pepper; dexterity in preparing which is a test of gentlemanly practice. The most delicate parts of a calf’s head are the bit under the ears, next the eyes, and the side next the cheek. If craw-fish be added to a fricasseed chicken, (as in France), one of the fish should be placed on the top, in dishing, and served to the first guest. If you should happen to meet with an accident at table, en-