13 GourmamUse. Art of Cookery. Dugald Steavaet was struck by the analogy between cookery, poetiy, and the fine arts, as appears from the following passage: “■ Agreeably to this view of the subject, siueet may be said to be intrinsically pleasing, and bitter to be relatively pleasing; both which are in many cases equally essential to those efi’ects, which, in the art of cookery correspond to that composite beauty which it is the object of the painter and the poet to create.” The Duke of York called the Almanack des Gourmands the most delightful book that ever issued from the press. Before it appeared, a man of fashion would have blushed to be heard speaking of cookery. “ Cookeiy, so far from possessing any deleterious tendency, is, on the contrary, highly conducive to the preservation of health, inasmuch as it protects the appetite against the disadvantageous monotony of plain food,” says Ude; yet Dr. Philip, in his Treatise on Indigestion, gives the following pithy opinion on the art of Cookery: “ Beyond a certain degree of roasting and boiling, the art of cookery is nothing but that of pleasing the palate at the expense of the stomach.” The French term gourmandise applies to the most refined epicurism, as distinguished from gluttony. It has its name in French alone; it can be designated neither by the Latin gulu, the English gluttony, nor the German liistern. Gourmandise, when partaken, has the most marked influence on the happiness of the conjugal state. A wedded pair endowed with this taste, have once a day, at least, an agreeable cause of meeting: a com- mon want summons the pair to the table; the same inclination retains them there; they naturally practise towards one another those little attentions which show a wish to oblige; and the manner in which their meals ai’o conducted enters materially into the happiness of life.—From the French. “ English cookeiy is by no means agreeable, as everybody is obliged to bite and chew twice as much as in France, Italy, and Germany; which is trying enough to young teeth, but utter destruction to older masticators.” Such is the opinion of Von Baumer, whose experience ranged from a banquet at Devonshire House, to a basin of leg-of-beef soup in Drury-lane. Diet should be varied in the same meal; this salutary object may be obtained by a meal of different dishes. It may be desirable to take nourishment, when the appetite, from ivhatever