51 Sturgeon.—Caviare. The Bream, by the way, is much less prized than of old. Accord- ing to Chaucer— “ Full many a patrich had he in mewc, And many a breme and many a luce* in stew.” An old French proverb runs: “ He who hath breams in his ponds may bid his friends welcome.” The piper-gurnard, of a brilliant red colour, is most delicious. Even Quin has borne testimony to the merits of a west-country piper. MACKEEEL. When Mackerel ai’e out of condition, a black horizontal band runs along a little above the lateral line, and joins the black bands together from the tail to just below the termination of the second back fin; this is termed by the fishermen “ the rogue’s mark,” and it disappears as the fish improves in health: a long,, thin-made mackerel is ever an ill-tasted fish. Mackerel which are taken in May and June are superior in flavour to those taken either earlier in the spring, or in autumn. They are best a la maitre d’hotel. To enjoy the flavour of mackerel, they should not be washed, but wiped clean and dry with a cloth. The price of mackerel in May, 1807, in the Billingsgate mar- ket, was as follows:—Forty guineas for every 100 of the fii’st cargo, which made the fish come to 7s. a-piece! The next sup- plies were also exorbitant, though much less so than the first, fetching 13Z. per 100, or 2s. a-piece. The very next year the- former deficiencies were more than made up, for it appears that during the season 1808, mackerel were hawked about the streets- of Dover at 60 for a shilling, or five for a penny; while they - so blockaded the Brighton coast, that on one night it became impossible to land the multitudes taken, and at last both fish and nets went to the bottom. It is a singular instanee of fluctuation in price, that in the year 1807 such an article should thus com- mand just four hundred and twenty times the price which it. fetched in the following year. THE STUEGEON.—CAVIABE. Sturgeon is an excellent fish, if firm; but, when it is soft and flabby, do not attempt to make anything good of it; or it will become red, and have a bad flavour. The sturgeon is of very great importance in an economical point of view, to the various nations under the Russian sway. Caviare is made from the roe; isinglass from the bladder; the- * Pike or jack. E 2 ’