14.6 Ilintu for the Table. is taken for breakfast. Napoleon the First’s method was to pnt the ground coffee into a _di-y pot, with a little isinglass, and hold it over the fire, shaking it to prevent burning j and when smoke rises from it, take off the pot, and gently pour in boiling water, which will at once bring out all the fine properties of the coffee without carrying off the aroma; a cup is then poured out, and returned to the pot, and in two or three minutes the coffee will be clear for use. A French physician recommends coflee made cold by infusion, to stand a day, and then be filtered; and two table-spoonsful of this coffee to be poured into a breakfast cup of hot milk. Or, the coffee, Turkey or Bourbon, should be roasted only till it is ot^ a cinnamon colour; it should be coarsely ground soon after it is roasted, but not until quite cool. The proportions for making coffee are usually one pint of boiling water to two ounces and a half of coffee. The coflee being put into the water, the coffee-pot should be covered up, and left for two hom-s sur- rounded with hot cinders, so as to keep up the temperatm’e, without making the liquor boil. Occasionally stir it, and after two hours’ infusion, remove it from the fire, allow it a quarter of an hour to settle, and when perfectly clear, decant it. Isinglass, or hartshorn shavings, are sometimes used to clarify cofiee; but by this addition you lose a great portion of its delicious aroma.— From Le Manuel de VAmateur de Cafe. Soyer gives the two following receipts:— Choose the cofifee of a very nice brown colour, but not black (which would denote that it was burnt, and impart a bitter flavour); grind it at home if possible, as you may then depend upon the qtiality; if ground in any quantity, keep it in a jar hermetically sealed. To make a pint, put two ounces mto a stewpan, or small iron or tin saucepan, which set dry upon a moderate fire, stirring the cofiee round with a wooden spoon con- tinually until it is quite hot through, but not in the least burnt: should the fire be very fierce, warm it by degrees, taking itofi every now and then until hot (which would not be more than two minutes), when pour over a pint of boiling water, cover close, and let it stand by the side of the fire (but not to boil) for five minutes, when strain it through a cloth or apiece of thick gauze, rinse out the stewpan, pour the cofiee (which vdll be quite clear) back into it, place it upon the fire, and, when nearly boiling, serve with hot milk if for breakfast, but with a drop of cold milk or cream if for dinner. French Fashion. To a pint of coffee, made as before directed, add a pint of boiling mfik, warm both together imtil nearly boiling, and serve. The French never use it any other way for breakfast. Benson Hill gives the following method: beat up an egg- two for a large pot—and mix it well with the coffee till it is formed into a ball: put it into the pot, and fill up with cold Avater; simmer it for an hour, but do not stir itj and just before