145 Making Cojfee. ai’Oina would make the inferior Ceylon, Jamaica, and East Indian ■coffee nearly equal to the value of the finest Mocha; and Payen, the chemist, says, if the oil could be bought for the purpose of im- parting tills flavour, it would be worth in the market as much as 100^. sterling an ounce ! It is a good custom to send coffee into the dining-room before tlie gentlemen leave the table; the hour bein^ previously ap- pointed, so that the bell need not be rung for it. Three hours are a proper interval between the dinner-hour and coffee. Thus, eight o’clock is a good hour, if the dinner be served at five.— Walker's Original. From the great consumption of coffee in Turkey, it is generally supposed to be cheaper there than in England; and the name, Turkey coffee, would lead many persons to conclude this kind to he grown in Turkey. It is, however, brought from Mocha, on the Red Sea. A considerable part of the coffee consumed by the Turks is obtained from our West India plantations; and Arabian, -or Mocha coffee is dearer in Turkey than in England. The finest coffee is grown in Arabia Felix, whence it is con- veyed upon the backs of camels to Mocha for exportation. There is not much of the coffee consumed at Mocha itself, where the Arabs, either from economy or preference, generally use an infusion of the husk, and coffee made from the seeds is rare even among the higher classes. Eveiy Arab lady when she visits, carries on her arm a little bag of qpffee: this is boiled at the house where she passes the evening, and thus she is enabled to enjoy society without putting her friend to expense. A good mode of roasting coffee is in an earthen basin, placed in an oven with the door open, the coffee to be frequently stin-ed with a spoon. This method is said to allow certain coarse par- ticles to fly off, and to render the flavour more delicate thau when the coffee is roasted in the usual close cylinder. The great use of coffee in France is supposed to have abated the prevalence of gravel. In the French colonies, where coffee is more used than in the English, as well as in Turkey, where it is the prin- cipal beverage, not only tb.e gravel, but the gout is scarcely known. Among others, a case is mentioned in the Fharmaceutical Jour- nal, of a gentleman who was attacked with gout at twenty-seven years of age, and had it severely till he was upwards of fifty, with chalk stones in the joints of his hands and feet; but the use of coffee then recommended to him completely removed the complaint. The only secret in making “French cofiee” is to have it roasted a very short time before it is used, to make it very strong, and to use with it a large quantity of hot milk, when it L