^44 llinU for the Table. ^lass; kit the glass is hot, brittle, and disagreeable, while the ; amber is always cool, pleasant, and pure. ' * A snufT-box is a letter of introduction: it has been the foun- 1 tain of many friendships. When you cannot ask a stranger his opinion of the new opera, or the new ministry, you can offer him your box with a graceful as well as profitable politeness. Even when the weather and other popular topics are exhausted, a pinch is always eloquent, always conversational, always con- ■ venient. Louis XIV. was a bitter discourager of snuff-taking. His ' valets were obliged to renounce it when they were appointed to \ their office; and the Duke of Harcourt is supposed to have died I of apoplexy, in consequence of having, to please Louis, left off at once a habit which he had carried to excess. Coleridge remarks: “You abuse snuff: perhaps it is the final i cause of the human nose!” Coffee-Making. Coffee is in Arabic, Kalmali; Turkish KaJive. The English word evidently comes direct from the Turkish. The coffee-plant j is a native of Abyssinia, and not of Arabia, for it was not known at Mecca until 1454, only forty years before the discovery | of America. The true name of the plant is ban—and Kahwa, i or coffee, means “ wine,” as a substitute for which the decoction I was used, although the legality of the practice was long a subject i of dispute by the Mahomedan doctors. From Arabia it spread i to Egypt and Turkey, and from the last-named country was brought to England in 1650. In sixty years it was familiarlj’- known, at least in fashionable society, as we find from Pope’s well- known lines in the “ Eape of the Lock— “ Coffee, which makes the politician wise. And see through all things with his half-shut eyes.” Coffee exhilarates, arouses, and keeps awake; it allays hunger to a certain extent, gives to the weary increased strength and vigour, and imparts a feeling of comfort and repose. It makes the brain more active, it soothes the body generally, makes the i change and waste of matter slower, and the demand for food in i consequence less. All these effects it owes to the conjoined action of three ingredients, very similar to those contained in tea. i These are, a volatile oil produced during the roasting—a variety of tannic acid, which is also altered during the roasting—and the substance called theine, or caffeine, which is common to both tea and coffee. On the different properties of the volatile oil wliich coffees contain, depend in great measure the aroma and consequent value of the several varieties of coffee. A higher