18 Hints for the Table. much louger than usual any appearance of taint; or, if strewed : over substances already tainted, or mixed with liquids which have acquired the unpleasant smell of decaying organic matter, |, it removes the evil odour, and makes them sweet again. It is |i for this reason that pieces of fresh charcoal are now and then introduced into our common water-filters. In all these cases, ' ' charcoal appears to act rather as a smell remover than as a decay ' and smell preventer.—Johnston’s Chemistry of Common Life. Creosote is used for preserving meat, but gives it a disagreeable H taste and smell. This, Dr. Stenhouso has obviated, by placing I a small plate containing a little creosote immediately under each ^ piece of meat as it hangs in the larder, and covering both with a , cloth. The creosote soon forms an atmosphere around the meat, ! and will keep it three or four days longer than otherwise, and ' the meat will not have, when cooked, the slightest smell or taste of creosote. Or, the joint may be suspended in a wooden box or earthen jar, to be with a lid. Another advantage attending the ■ use of creosote is, that it frees a larder from flies. A room in which meat in an advanced degree of decomposition had been kept some time, has been instantly deprived of all smell, on an open coffee-roaster being carried through it, con- taining a pound of coffee, newly roasted. In another room, exposed to the effluvium occasioned by the clearing out of a dung-pit, so that sulphuretted hydrogen and ammonia in great quantity could be chemically diluted, the stench was completely removed within half-a-minute, on the employment of -thi-ee ounces of fresh-roasted coffee; whilst the other parts of the house were permanently cleared of the same smell by being simply traversed with the coffee-roaster, although the cleansing of the dung-pit lasted several hours longer. Even the smell of musk and castoreum, which cannot be overpowered by any other sub- stance, is completetely dispelled by the fumes of coffee: and the same applies to asafoetida. The Art of Dining. According to the lexicons, the Greek word for dinner \%Ariston, and, therefore, for the convenience of the terras, the art of dining ' is called Aristoloyy, and those who study it, Aristologists.— The late Mr. Walker, in the Original. A first-rate dinner in England, is out of all comparison better I than a dinner of the same class in any other country; for we get the best cooks, as we get the best singer.s and dancers, b}' bidding highest for them, and we have cultivated certain national dishes to a point which makes them the envy of the