JTiutsfor the Table. 128 ■can be procured; sprinkle about four ounces of either of the r above powders upon the shoulder of the bottle, so as, gradually I |! dissolving, to fall or run down its sides; as the salt dissolves, i: the bottle should be gently turned in the mixture, and kept in it !■ about twenty minutes, or half-an-hour. ■' A decanter of wine or water may be readily cooled by folding I; round it a wet cloth, and placing it in a current of air. ' I Artificial ice, made by the aid of an air-pump and other appa- : ; ratus, has been found too expensive, and is rarely resorted to in \ !( India. Upon its first introduction into Bengal, the novelty j |! proved very attractive; and a rich and luxurious native, it is said, I I expended 700Z. in the single article of ice, at an entertainment ] 'I given to a European party. Sometimes wine is kept cool at table by fancifully arranging wet cloths round the necks of the I bottles, over which is a kind of petticoat. Port, claret, and Burgundy are characteristically attired in crimson, with white ! flounces; while sherry and Madeira appear in bridal costume. It is calculated that, in one da}', 800 tons of ice have been collected from the various sources afforded by the basin of the canal near King’s Cross. The Eev. Mr. Musgrave, in his Filgrim.age into Daupliiny, observes that, when you have the best wine, you should have the best glasses to drink it from. In the broad, tazza-shaped glass the effervescence is speedily dead, as also in the old- fashioned long glass in the form of an inverted funnel. The stem should be hollow, and as it approaches the circular flat upon which it stands should be perfectly globular. As long as this contains any wine, a column of fixed air is seen ascending, and keeping up the sparkling action, not pleasant to the eye alone, but conducive to the flavour and cordial to the taste. To Mull Wine. (An excellent French receipt).—Boil in a wine- glassful and a half of water a quarter of an ounce of spice (cin- ; namon, ginger, slightly bruised, and cloves), with three ounces i of fine sugar, until they forai a thick syrup, which must not on any account be allowed to burn. Pour in a pint of port wine, and stir it gently until it is on the point of boiling only: it should then be served immediate!}'. The addition of a strip or two of orange-rind cut extremely thin, gives to this beverage the I flavour of bishop. In France, light claret takes the place of port ,i wine in making it, and the better kinds of vin du pays are very palatable thus prepai'ed: Watei', IJ wineglassful; spice, quarter ■' of an ounce, of which fine cloves twenty-four, and of remainder ' I rather more ginger than cinnamon ; sugar, three ounces: warm fifteen to twenty minutes. Port wine or claiet, one pint; orange- rind, if used, to be boiled with the spice. Sherry, or very fine