46 Hints for the Table. from the Firth of Forth, the stake-nets at South Queensferrj, and Kincardine; and hereafter it will be sent to the Edinburgh mar- ket in such quantities as to render it as profitable as the sperling or smelt fisheiy. Whitebait is caught in profusion in the Bosphorus ; but the sword-fish ranks first with the epicures of Constantinople. The shad of the Thames, the twaite, is little worth; but he of the Severn, the allice, affords a very superior morsel. And should any friend residing on the Severn send you a basket of Allice, have them broiled, and eat them with caper sauce, a la Frav^aise. Shad is much esteemed in Paris, where it is eaten dressed in this fashion. EELS AND TENCH. The Eel differs in taste, according to the river from whence it is taken. Although we have some very fine eels in the river Thames, yet, our principal supply is received from Holland, and the fish which comes from thence are much improved in flavour by the voyage, and even increase in size. They arrive in the river Thames in vessels called eel scootes {schuyts), of which four have been allowed, for centuries, to moor opposite the Custom House, and the others are obliged to remain in Erith Hole until there is room for them, which greatly improves the fish. The value of those imported into Loudon, in 1848, amounted to 132,600^. Whole cargoes are daily sent up the river to be eaten as Thames or Kennett eels at Richmond, Eel-pie Island, &c. “ The Eennett swift for silver eels renowned.” Pope’s Windsor Forest. Eels are, however, to be had in the highest perfection, at Godstow, Salisbury, Anderton, or Overton. A matelotte, in general, must have eels mixed with it: carp alone are not so good as the eels; which require longer cooking than any other fish. The muddy taste of eels, lampreys, and tench, may be dis- charged by par-boiling them in salt and water. Izaak Walton gives an excellent receipt for roasting eels. The Conger Eel, stewed in brown gravy, with a pudding in its belly, or dressed in steaks or cutlets, is excellent; it is also good roasted or baked, or made into soup, ot curried. Eel pies, when hahed, should have the lid removed, and be filled up with cream, which ^vill mix with the gravy, and make a most delicious sauce. Tench is delicious when in prime order; it may be either plain boiled or fried ; or made into water souchy; or stewed with eels. Tench was formerly recommended as a sovereign remedy for