74 Hints for the Table. bring the eggs of a certain sort of plover found in the former country. He was mown to eat a single dinner at the expense of 601., though there were but two dishes. In nine years, he found himself getting poor, and this made him melancholy. Wlien totally ruined, havmg spent 160,tXX)l., a friend one day gave him a guinea to keep him from starving; and he was found in a garret next day broiling an ortolan, for which he had paid a portion of the alms! THE WHEATEAE. There is some consolation for the rarity of the ortolan in England. It is approached in delicacy by our wheatear, which is also called “ the English Ortolan.” Hence it has been pursued as a delicate morsel throughout all its island haunts. Bewick cap- tured it at sea off the coast of Yorkshire. Every spring and autumn it may be observed at Gibraltar, on its migration. Mr. Strickland, the ornithologist, saw it at Smyrna in April. North Africa is its winter habitat. Colonel Sykes notes it among the birds of the Deccan. THE PIGEON, ETC. Mr. Waterton, whose knowledge of natural history renders his opinion worthy of quotation, remarks : “ We labour under a mistake in supposing that the flesh of the young carrion crow is rank and unpalatable. It is fully as good as that of the rook ; and I believe that nobodj'- who is accustomed to eat rook pie, will deny that rook pie is nearly, if not quite, as good as pigeon pie. Having fully satisfied myself of the delicacy of the flesh of young carrion crows, I once caused a pie of these birds to be served up to two convalescent friends, whose stomachs would have yearned spasmodically had they known the nature of the dish. I had the satisfaction of seeing them make a hearty meal upon what they considered pigeon pie.” Pigeons are scarcely fit for a delicate stomach when full fledged, as they are difiBcult of digestion. A heron is now but little valued, and but rarely brought to market; though formerly a heron was estimated at thrice the value of a goose, and six times the price of a partridge. The common godwit is often taken in Lincolnshire, and fat- tened for the London market. HAEE AND EABBIT. No gravy can be extracted from the flesh of any animal equal in riqhness to that which the hare affords. Among the Eomans, the hare was held in great estimation. Alexander Severus had a hare daily served at his table. Ca2sar says, that in his time the Britons did not eat the flesh of hare.