Hints for the Table. 130 offers its spariding Ai, perfumed Cumieres, and limpid Sillery. After these, you may enjoy the stronger wines of Jjauphiny, which whet the appetite, and lieigliten the savour of the roasts. Among these we recommend Chateau-Grilld, Cote-Eotie, and Hermitage. ’Tis then that mirth lights up the faces of the con- vivial circle, and the gibes and gambols of wit are wont “ to set the table in a roar’tis then that we acknowledge the claim of only one other wine to pi'oduce on the quantity already imbibed, an effect similar to that of a drop of water in boiling milk, or a spoonful of oil on the angry waves of the ocean. This is the wine of Bordeaux, or claret. See how wisdom’s art gradually appeases the mounting spirits, in the effect of Medoc poured by a steady hand into bright crystal, which reflects scores of wax- lights. An armistice ensues, and the “ intellectual gladiators ” lay down their wordy weapons. Amphitryons clear the table; wafers and sweet cakes, and perfumed creams, usurp the place of Itgumes, which boasted all the skill of scientific cookery. Lan- guedoc, Eoussillon, and Provence, what brilliant associations do ye create! Spain, too, participates in this gale of glory! But, what is that ruby tint which glows amid sparkling crystal ?— what is that liquid topaz, which strikes the eye with wonder, and inspires a new gusto ? Eivesaltes, Grenache, Lunel, Malmsey, Froutignan, Malaga, and Xeres—what a galaxy of glories rises with your delicious aroma to perplex wine-drinkers. Your half- consumed corks give evidence of your age, like a wreck of hoar antiquity; the perfumed gale ascends, and your richness mantles and sparkles high ; whilst your glowing spirit tempers the effect of ice, which is sometimes injudiciously served immediately after dinner; although health and good taste concur in delaying its appearance. The aromatic gale of the Mocha berry next salutes our delighted senses. Polly produces another bottle; the silver froth rushes like a boiling spring, and carries the cork to the ceiling, or the Arbois is produced, and unites the sweetness of Condrieux with the spariding of the impetuous Ai! ’Tis then only that the wine-drinker can enjoy in diamond glasses the exquisiteness ot •veritable Tokay. Such, observes our French authority, is an outline of the didactic order in which the tributes to Bacchus must be greeted. He concludes, by rejoicing that notwithstanding all their luxury and knowledge of the arts, the ancients did not at any period excel irs in wine-making. Aristotle tells us, that in Arcadia the wines evaporated in leather vessels, till they were cut in pieces and dissolved in water for drinking: certes, these could not equal our Mddoc, Volnay, or Ai, without a drop of water. According