134 Hinis for the Table. juniper berries—which spurious ingredients give it something of a similar flavour.* Bitters should he cautiously employed, since their continued use seems to impair the power of the stomach, and leave it in a state of greater weakness than at first. Hence their employment should be only temporary, to raise the powers of digestion when they have been enfeebled by previous disease, or excessive fatigue. They likewise increase the quantity of hlood, by augmenting the appetite; owing to which more food is taken, and more stimu- lant nutrition is extracted, a plethoric state of the blood vessels is induced, and all the attendant evils brought about. These remarks apply also to the hitter in malt liquors. Hence, the full and often bloated habit of body of those who daily consume a large portion of strong ale or porter, sufficiently demonstrates the consequences of such indulgence. There has been in all governments a great deal of absm’d canting about the consumption of spirits. We believe the best plan is to let people drink what they like, and wear what they like; to make no sumptuary laws either for the belly or the back. In the first place, laws against rum and rum-and-water are made by men who can change a wet coat for a dry one when- ever they choose, and who do not often work up to their knees in mud and water; and, in the next place, if this stimulus did all the mischief it is thought to do by the wise men of claret, its cheapness and plenty would rather lessen than increase the avidity with which it is at present sought for.—Sydney Smith. * Odd things have been said of gin. Burke, in one of his spirituel flights, exclaimed: “Let the thunders of the pulpit descend upon drunkenness, I for one stand up for gin.” This is a sort of paraphrase on Pope’s couplet: “ Tills calls the church to deprecate our sin. And hurls the thunder of our laws on gin.” It has been oddly said that the word gin is associated with a name famous in poetry and romance—Ginera, or Ginuera, the favourite lady of Ariosto; which caused him to immortalize the juniper-tree, as Eetrarch did the laurel. A learned wag has defined oxygen to be pure gin, and hydrogen gin- and-water. The definition of gin, quoted from Sir John Hill, in Johnson’s Dic- tionary, is as follows: “ A sort of spirit distilled from the junipcr-ber^; what is commonly sold is no better an ingredient than oil of tiuqientine put into the stiU, with a little common salt, and the coarsest spirit.” This shows the adulteration to have been as unmasked in the last century as in our time by Dr. Hassall, and others. In Douglas Jerrold’s play of The Bill-sticker, the principal character (the Bill-sticker) falls drunk, at full length, upon the floor. “ What do you call that P” says a byestander. “ A tremendous fall in gin!” is the confident reply.