The Hundred Guinea Dish. 77 The formation of the egg of the former bird is, however, more rotund at either extremity than is that of the latter, and the dark opaque blotches observable on the egg of the plover are larger and more boldly defined than are those noticeable in that of the rook. Dr. Hunter, in his Cidina, gives the recipe for an omelette, the invention of a lady, who had it regularly served at her table three days in the week, and who died at the age of ninety-seven, with a piece of it in her mouth. The doctor adds, that, in con- sequence of this accidental longevity, eggs rose ninety per cent, in the small town of Wells, in North America, where the old lady was born and died. “ The Hundred Guinea Dish,” a feat a la Lucullus, devised by Soyer,* for the royal table, at the banquet given by the Lord * Few persons were better known “about town” than Alexis Soyer; few were more generally liked; and the good service he did society, not only in Ireland in the famine year, in the Crimea during the war, and later by his endeavours to improve barrack cookery, but also by teaching the people how to utilize much good food commonly wasted—entitles him to more than ordinary notice. Severe illness, consequent partly upon Crimean campaigning, and his exertions in the hospitals of Scutari, told upon his originally vigorous consti- tution, and sowed the seeds of a fatal malady. For some months before his death, his health was bad, and the labours of remodelling the kitchens of the army, and the study of the various contrivances to increase the comfort of our soldiery in the barrack and in the field, were too much for his enfeebled energies. He lapsed into a state of coma, and so continued up to the time of his death. Alexis Soyer was born at Mau-en-Brie, in France, in October, 1809. He was designed for the chmch, and he was sent for his education to the Cathedral School of Meaux—instituted by the celebrated Bossuet— where he remained for some years, and officiated as a chorister. He was next sent to Paris, and was apprenticed to a celebrated restaarafewr in the Palais Eoyal (D’Ouix). There he remained five years; by which time his elder brother, who had also been educated to the profession of cook, had obtained the position of chef to the Duke of Cambridge. Alexis, anxious to see the world, came over to England, on a visit to his brother, and at Cambridge House he cooked his first dinner in England, for the then Prince George; and it was only by accident that the last dinner he cooked (at the IFcllington Barracks) was not partaken of by the same personage, tioycr afterwards entered the service of various noblemen, amongst others of Lord Ailsa, Lord Panmure, &c., and became rather celebrated for his little dinners at Melton. He then entered into the service of the Befonu Club, and the breakfast given by that club, on the occasion of the Queen’s coronation, stamped him as the first man in his profession. Since then his career has been continually before the public. His O’Connell dinner, with Souffles a la Clontarf, is thought by gastronomes to be one of the richest bits of satire that ever was invented; but that which brought liis name to be known and respected publicly, was his ofi'er to the Government to go to Ireland, in the year of the famine. There he went, and superintended the arrangements ibr cooking for 26,000 persons