101 Malt Liquors. the extract derived from the grain (from four to eight per cent.), and the bitter of the liop. Hops possess a strong narcotic principle, so that the purest beer produces an effect upon the brain, if taken in considerable quantity. The sleepiness which follows its use shows this, as well as the fate of those who are addicted to it. In seven cases out of ten, malt-liquor drunkards die of apoplexy or palsy. A very moderate use, during dinner, of a beer not containing much nutritious matter, or too much hop, is allowable to most persons ; but it should be thoroughly fermented or purified, and not be hard or stale. In one of Lord Normanby’s novels, a gallant attempt is made to disabuse the public as to beer : “ Is not that a lashionable novelist opposite?” says an exquisite; “Well, I’ll astonish the fellow;—here, bring me a glass of table-beei’.” Belgium has, for ages, been celebrated for its beer ; the finest is brewed at Louvain, where 200,000 casks are made annually, and a great deal exported. Beer is probably more drunk in Bavaria than in any other country. The late king was so fond of this drink, as to be per- sonally acquainted with the interior of every beer-shop in his capital; and when you see a Bavarian peasant not working, }'ou are sure to find him with a beer-can in his hand. Yet, there is no sign of poverty throughout the country. Nothing can be more generally wholesome than good table- beer; and it is to be lamented that table-beer is so rarely met with in the perfection of which it is capable. Sydenham, in his last treatise, writes, “ a draught of small beer is to me instead of a supper, and I take another draught when I am in bed, and about to compose myself to sleep.” Porter is nominally cheaper when bought by the pint from the publican, than when obtained by the eighteen-gallon cask from the brewer; a fact which proves the adulteration of the retailer. A familiar instance of the good eH'ect of “ the voyage ” on fer- mented liquors, is observable in the Loudon porter drank in the Isle of Wight, which is materially benefited b}'' the short sea-carriage. The excellence of the Burton ale proves to be the result of the water of which it is manufactured flowing over a limestone rock. In the last century, this fact was ingeniousl}'' explained by Dr. Darwin, upon the supposition that some of the saccharine matter in the malt combined with the calcareous earth in the water, and formed a sort of mineral sugai’, which, like true sugar, is con- vertible into spirit. Although cwrr-dda, or Welsh ale, is very mild, it is very strong, and a Welshman is generally as proud as he is fond of it.