Chibs of London. 1G3 Wales (afterwards George IV.); and Captain Morris was the laureat, the sun of this jovial system: in 1831 he bade adieu to the Society, but in 1835 revisited it, and was presented with an elegant silver bowl; at the age of 90, he sang:— “ When my spirits are low for relief and. delight, I still place your splendid memorial in sight; And call to my muse, when care strives to pursue, ‘Bring the steaks to mymem’ry, and the howl to my view.’ ” There was also a Beef-steak Cluh, which is mentioned by Ned Ward in 1770. Peg Woffington was a member; and the Presi- dent wore as an emblem a gold gridiron. And at the sale of Mr. Harley’s curiosities, in November, 1858, a silver gridiron, worn by a member, was sold for IZ. 3s. Crockford, who established the Club which bore his name, in the house now the “ Wellington,” in St. James’s-street, was a remarkable man. According to the JEdinhurgh 'Review,— Crockford started in life as a fishmonger, in the old bulk-shop next door to Temple Bar Without, which he quitted for “ pla^’ in St. James’s. He began by taking Watier’s old club-house, where he set up a hazard- bank, and won a great deal of money; he then separated from his part- ner, who had a bad year, and failed. Crockford now removed to St. James’s-street, had a good year, and built the magnificent club-houso which bore his name; the decorations alone are said to have cost him 94,000Z. The election of the club members was vested in a committee; the house appointments were superb, and Ude was engaged as maitro d’hotel. “ Crockford’s” now became the high fashion. Card-tables were regularly placed, and whist was played occasionally; but the aim, end, and final cause of the whole was the hazard-bank, at which the proprietor took his nightly stand, prepared for all comers. His speculation was eminently successful. During several years, everything that anybody had to lose and cared to risk was swallowed up; and Crockford became a millionaire. He retired m 1840, “ much as an Indian chief retires from a hunting country when there is not game enough left for his tribe and the Club then tottered to its fall. After Crockford’s death the lease of the club-house (thirty-two years, rent 1400Z.) was sold for 2900Z. James Smith has left us the following sketch of his ever3‘-clay life at the Union Club:— At three o’clock I walk to the Union Club, read the journals, hear Lord John Bussell deified or diablerized, do the same with Sir Kobert Peel or the Duke of Wellington, and then join a knot of conversationists by the fire tin six o’clock, consisting of lawyers, merchants, and gentlemen at large. We then and there discuss the Three per Cent. Consols (some of us preferring Dutch Two-and-a-half per Cents.), and speculate upon the probable rise, shape, and cost of the New Exchange. H Lady Harrington happen to drive past our window in her landau, we compare her equipage to the Algerine Ambassador’s; and when politics happen to be discussed rally Whigs, Eadicals, and Conservatives ^ternately, but never seriously Bueh subjects having a tendency to create acrimony. At six the room