Hints for the Talle. lected, that an habitual drunkard is in a morbid condition, and must be treated accordingly. It is probable that a regular mode of living is the most likely to prolong our years, whatever may be that regularity in a com- parative point of view. A sober man, who commits occasional •excesses, is more likely to suffer than another man who gets •drunk every night, provided that these excesses do not differ in regard to the quantit}' or quality of stimulus. In these melan- •choly instances, the excitement is constant, and the indirect <lebility which it may produce, has scarcely time to break down the system, ere it is again wound up to its usual pitch, to use the vulgar expression, “ by a hair of the same hound.” The prin- “cipal attribute of life that renovates, for awhile, its moral and its phj’sical exhaustion is excitability; and a constant excitement is, therefore, indispensable to serve as a fuel to the consuming •fire.—Dr. Millingen. DIGESTION.—AETIEICIAL GASTEIC JUICE. How much gastric juice do you suppo.se there is made and poured into the stomach in twenty-four hours in an ordinary -man ? There are 16 pints. There are used in the same time, of mouth saliva, 3 pints; of bile, 3 pints; of pancreatic saliva, ^ pint; of intestinal juice, ^ pint; in all 23 pints of fluid are poured out into the digestive canal in about 24 liours. About one-sixth part ■of an ordinary sized man! What becomes of it P Why, it goes ill again. During digestion it is constantly being poured out thin, and taken in thicker. It is outward bound—empty; home- ■ward bound—laden with cargo. It leaves home poor, it returns rich. By its chemical qualities it digests the food which it meets; and by its mere quantity it washes it into the blood-vessels. Is then the bile all re-absorbed ? Not all, but 15 parts out of 16 are, and furnish a fuel to the blood, very easily burned, to assist in maintaining animal heat.—Dr. Radclyffe Mall. Dr. Corvisart, a Parisian physician, has introduced a medicine •capable of performing the functions of the digestive organs—in short, an Artificial Gastric Juice, which is a combination of Mepsin, (literall}', the cooking principle), with an acid, probably lactic. It has been proved that the principal element in the Kligestive process is pepsin, which, if slightl}' acidulated, (as with the lactic acid,) will dissolve coagulated albumen. Hence, in ■cases of impaired digestive powers, if pepsin can be introduced,^ •even in very small quantities, into the stomach, at the time of taking food, the operations of nature will be wonderfully facili- tated. M. Boudalt has succeeded in preparing pepsin from the Tennet-bags, (the fourth stomachs of the ruminants,) used iu