The Art of Blnmg. /o' i. 01 tion of meat, and it is easy to conclude that the brown sauce must be stronger. State without the machinery of state, is of all states the woi'st. Mr. Walker relates that he once received a severe frown from a lady, at the head of her table, next to whom he was sitting, because ho offered to take some fish from her, to which she had helped liim, instead of waiting till it could be handed to him by her one servant. The old English habit of talcing wine together affords one of the most pleasing modes of recognition when distant, and one of the prettiest occasions for coquetry when near. There is a well- known lady-killer, who esteems his mode of taking wine to be, of all his manifold attractions, the chief; and, to do him justice, the tact with which he chooses his time, the air with which he gives the invitation, the empressement he contrives to throw into it, the studied carelessness with which he keeps his e}'e on the fair one’s every movement till she is prepared, and the seem- ing timidity of his bow, when he is all the while looking full into her e3'es—all these little graces are inimitable.— (Quarterly Heview. The difficulty of getting a glass of wine in the regular wa}’-, has often exercised the ingenuity of mankind. Mr. Theodore Hook was once observed, during dinner at Hatfield House, nod- ding like a Chinese mandarin in a tea-shop. On being asked the reason, he replied, “ Why, Lady Salisbmy, when no one else asks me to take champagne, I take sherry with the epergne, and bow to the flowers.” The expense of a dinner at a restaurant in Paris, is pretty nearly the same as at an English coffee-house, and greater than at an English club. At the respectable houses, a gentleman may dine for six or seven francs, or augment the expenses to the prices of the Albion or the Clarendon; but, a lai’ge party may be furni.shed at the best restaurant in Paris, the Itoclier de Cancale, for two Napoleons, or 35s. a head, with such a dinner as would be charged in London at five guineas a head.— Metropolitan. When the allied monarchs arrived.in Paris, in 1814, they were compelled to contract with a restaurateur, (Very) for the supply of their table, at the moderate sum of 3000 francs a day, ex- clusive of wine. The following maxims for giving a dinner are translated from Physiologie de Gout:— How is a meal to be regulated iu order to unite all things requisite to the highest pleasures of the table ? I proceed to answer this question.