Hints for the Table. 50 A Medway pike, after feeding on smelts, is a first-rate delicacy; and a well-fed river pike is capital. Pike were formerly very rare, as may be inferred from the fact, that in the latter part of the thirteenth century, Edward I. fixed the value of pike higher than that of fresh salmon, and more than ten times greater than that of the best turbot or cod. They were so rare in the reign of Henry VIII. that a large one was sold for double the price of a house-lamb in Februaiy, and a pickerel, or small pike, for more than a fat capon.—(YarrelVs British Fishes.) This rarity has been attributed to these fish having then been recently introduced into England; but pike were in our markets as early as the reign of Edward I. Almost every angler has his pike story. We remember Alderman Ansley used to relate that during his Mayoralty, a gigantic pike was taken upon his estate in Huntingdonshire, and straightway forwarded to the Mansion House : a party was invited to eat the fish; but his Lord- ship’s kitchen could not furnish a dish long enough to contain it; however, after much search, there was found among the plate of one of the City companies’ halls a silver dish to hold the pike, the bringing in of which by two footmen, and setting the same upon the table, before the Lord Mayor and his guests, was attended with much pomp and circumstance. In illustration of bow much depends upon the dressing of fish, it may be observed, that a stewed carp is really a splendid dish, a boiled carp one of the worst brought to table. Some of the finest and oldest carp are found in the windings of the Spree, in the tavern gardens of Charlottenburg, the great resort of the Sunday strollers from Berlin. Visitors are in the habit of feeding them with bread-crumbs, and collect them together by ringing a bell, at the sound of which shoals of the fish may be seen popping their noses upwards from the water. Perch should be taken from a bright river, or transparent lake; if from a pond, they should he kept in some rapidly run- ning river, till the clear stream has washed away all weedy flavour. When this precaution has not been taken, the fish and its soup are redolent of mud. Perch is so delicate and easy of digestion, that it is particu- larly recommended to those invalids who have weak debilitated stomachs. It is eaten in high perfection in South Holland, in water-souchies, or plain boiled, served with white piquante sauce, and white and brown bread and butter, flanked by a rich and sweetish red wine. Perch arc also excellent fried in batter. The French make the head of the carp the morceau d'honneur, to be given to the highest guest, and the back the next best part. The head and belly of the fresh-water Bream are most esteemed.