15 Theory of the Kitchen. “ C'est la Soupe," says the proverb, “ quifait le Soldat ^‘Ifc is the Soup that makes the Soldier.” Excellent as our troops are in the field, they are very inferior to the French in cookery. The English soldier lays his piece, or ration, of beef at once on the coals, by which means the one and the better half is lost, and the other burnt to a cinder: whereas, six French troopers fling their messes into the same pot, and extract^ a. delicious soup, ten times more nutritious than the simple roti ever could be. Cookery is the soul of festivity at all times, and to all ages. How many marriages have been the consequence of meeting at dinner! How much good fortune has been the result of a good supper! At what moment of our existence are we happier than when at table! There hatred and animosity are lulled to sleep, and pleasure alone reigns. It is at table that an amiable lady or gentleman shines in sallies of wit, where they display the ease and graceful manner with which they perform “ the honours.” Here their wants are satisfied, their minds and bodies invigorated, and themselves qualified for the high delights of love, music, poetry, dancing, and other pleasures. Many people rail against attributing much importance to the pleasures of the table: but, it is not observable that these moralists are more averse than others to the gratification of the palate when opportunity occm'S. — Tide. The Cooking of Meat is thus scientifically illusti'ated in Johnston’s Chemistry of Common Life. A well-cooked piece of meat should be full of its own juice or natural gravy. In o'oasting, therefore, it should be exposed to a quick fire, that the external surface may be made to contract at once, and the albumen to coagulate before the juice has had time to escape from within. And so in boiling. When a piece of beef or mutton is plunged into boiling water, the outer part contracts, the albumen whicli is near- the surface coagulates, and the internal juice is prevented either from escaping into the water by which it is surrounded, or from being diluted and weakened by the admission of water among it. When cut up, therefore, the meat yields much gravy, and is rich in flavour. Hence a beef-steak or a mutton-chop is done quickly, and over a quick fire, that the natural juices may be retained. The Theory of the Kitchen appears trifling, but its practice is extensive. Many persons talk of it, yet know nothing of it beyond a mutton-chop or a beef-steak.— Tide. It is remarkable that the first decisive proof of genius given by Careme (the chef of French cookery), was a sauce for Fast dinners. He began his studies by attending a regular course of