Hints for the Table. 118 1 r In 1836, half of the finest wines in the duke’s cellars were sold hy public auction. The finest cask, the flower, or, as the Germans ; call it, the Braut (Bride) of the cellar, was purchased for the enormous sum of 6100 florins (about 600Z.), by Prince Emile of Hesse. It contained 3^ ohms, about 600 bottles of cabinet 1 Steinberg, at about 24>s. a bottle; this being, probably, the highest ,price ever paid for any wine of the district. One of the finest German wines is one called straw wine, which is the produce of grapes so ripe as to require no pressure; but the juice distils itsell’ through clean wheaten straw, from which it j imbibes its colour. It is a very expensive wine—sixteen shillings per bottle, I The famous Heidelberg Tun stands in a cellar under the castle ! • of that name: it is the largest wine cask in the world, being capable of holding 800 hogsheads (283,000 bottles), which are , less, after all, than the dimensions of the porter vats of a London / brewer. In former days, when the tun was filled, it was usual I to dance on the platform on the top: it has, however, remained ■empty since 1769, nearly 90 years. The Konigstein Tun was !' broken up some time since, having fallen to decay, TEEMUTH,—TOKAY, ETC, I Vermuth, the wermutJi must, or wormwood, is a wine of con- siderable antiquity, Wallenstein is recorded to have ordered provision to be made of vermuth from his estates, of the vintage of 1630, being one of great promise. This luxurious appendage to the table is stiU usual in Austrian Germany, and jl rare elsewhere, “ Imperial Tokay” appears to be nothing more than a costly and sweet luscious wine, which has been extravagantly overrah^d. Dr. Townson, in his Travels in H.ungary, says, “ Tokay is, no ; doubt, a fine wine, but I think no ways adeqxxate to its price; ij there are few of my countrymen, except on account of its scarce- ness, who would not prefer to it good claret or Burgundy, which does not cost one-fourth of the price. Some of the sweetish Spanish wines are, in my opinion, equally good; and, unless it i be very old, it is too sweet for an Englishman’s palate.” When the Emperor of Austria wished to make a present of some Tokay [!■ wine in return for a breed of horses which had been sent to him by the ex-king of Holland, the stock in the imperial royal cellars i was not deemed sufficiently old for the purpose, and 2000 bottles jj of old Tokay were, therefore, procured from Cracau, at the ex- ■1 travagant price of 7 ducats, or 3Z. 5s. 4i7. the bottle; or, for the ( whole present, 6533Z. 6s. 8tZ.! Vin de Chypre is a costly item in the cartes of some of the