LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: 30106 009829226✓ Presented to the University Library, Leeds, by the Warden and Fellows of All Souls’ College, Oxford, r 1926.1 • 1 A < 1 , \ S Y S T ✓ . E M » OF 1 A N. A T 1 o M y. PHYSIOLOGY, 1 1 1 &c. 1 i 1*(CmtM® *■' ©wtiontts Hjall 4- Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21521220_0001Uwitu tfCl* J1:^, 0 ni*o ^ c u ri ' /r/jr/' r/* ' ///r/Zr /// //. /'r//r //' r / '/r / RmTil 'rollpo’e of J’ln’siciaris aT]EdmbtirD'lL mid T,.R, S- - * o' s Y s T EM ' OT A N A T 6 AND PHYSIOLOGY, ' W 1 T H T H E COMPARATIVE ANATOMY O F A N I M A L S. COMPILED FP.OM THE LATEST AND BEST AUTHORS, AND ARRANGED, AS NEARLY'AS THE WORK WOULD ADMIT, IN THE ORDER OF THE L E G T U R E S a DELIVERED IN THE — UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. IN THREE VOLUMES. With a complete Index to each Volume. ' A NEW E D'l T I O N, WITH ADDITIONS, CORRECTIONS, AND NOTES; ILLUSTRATED WITH . TWENTY NEW COPPERPLATES. And an elegantly engraved Head of Dr Al ekander Monro, Senior. Of , ttnamatXdeSSS- VOLUME FIRST.'' EDINBURGH: PRINTED FOR. WILLIAM CREECH; AND SOLD IN LONDON BY G. G. AND J. J. R0BINS9NS, MDCCXCV.I t / \ I s \T O ALEXANDER MONRO, M. D FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY, AND OF THE COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, AND PROFESSOR OF PHYSIC, ANATOMY, AND SURGERY, HE great nnmber and variety of books necef- fary for Students in Anatomy ; many of ivhich had become extremely fcarce and valu- able, rendered, an Anatomical library very expen- five. In order to remove fo great an inconveni- ence, a Gentleman connedled with this Univerfity, whofe great Anatomical knowledge and accuracy fully qualified him for the talk, compiled from the bell Authors the following Syllem, which has alrea- dy gone through two Editions, in the fpace of a very few years. Mr Creech, whofe indefatigable zeal for pro- moting literature, and the interells of this Univerfi- ty, is w'ell known, bought the copy-right of this IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. S I R, Work *VI DEDICATION. Work; and the urgent demand for a new Edi- tion induced him to put each of the volumes under different preffes, led, at the commencement of your Ledlnres, the Students might be difappointed in not having' affidance from this ufeful Compilation. Be- ing unable, from the multiplicity of his bufinefs, to fuperintcnd the Publication, he requefted me to re- vife the Work for the prefs. As I was acquainted with the fubjed, and the Authors whence the felec- lion was made, I readily undertook the talk. t In the firft volume, which contains chiefly the Odeology by the late Profeffor, your illuflrious fa- ther and the founder of the Medical School here, little more was lequilite than to correct fome typo- graphical errors, and to adapt a few phrafes to the idiom of the Englilh language, in its prefent improv- ed date. In the other volumes, where Phyfiology was in- termixed with anatomical defcription, the cafe was widely different. This circumflance, however, hap- pened from no fault of the original Editor or Projec- tor of the Work ; for he had chofen the belt books to feledfrom, and his knowledge and difcrimination in this refped, are fufficiently confpicuous; but thefe works being in foreign languages, and an Englilh book being wanted, unfortunately erroneous tranlla- tions, had been ufed. The Editor, who diredled the choice of the books, could not be fuppofed, amid theDEDICATION. Vll the multifarious and accumulated duties of his office, to attend to the faithfulnefs of the tranflations; and the Book came before the Public therefore in a very imperfed: flate. These defecls I have endeavoured to remedy in this Edition ; and I am not confcious, that any errors have efcaped my notice. Should any, however, be difcovered, 1 triift that your candour w'ill attribute them to their true caufe, viz. the hurry of correding three large oclavo volumes for three prefles, and pre- paring tranflations for two of them in the fpace of a few weeks. The thanks of the Public are juftly due to you for patronifing, and to the Editor for projeding fo ufeful a work. The faults of the former Editions were un- avoidable, from the circumftances above mentioned ; and if, by amending them, I have any way contri- buted to render the w'ork more worthy of your patro- nage, or more ufeful to the attendants at your crowd- ed theatre, I fhall think myfelf highly honoured. I have the Honour to be, With the greateft Refped, S I R, Your moft obedient humble Servant, JOHN ROTHERAM. \V - .V U .i... ■ . Y r •/ , rx*-'"v r y : . . , t . . 4 M ✓. --Vi •• . • * 4 ' 4 C9A ^ . ‘A i’i T , . ■ -i »•; ' M , i ~i ..:i i ■ • _,y - _. • A,* * t". • - •n 'ir.'-. V/-* 4,-r >iv '.v I '■' • • >;..:ij v! i "''i ^ latCwiWi-fcsvn- !• "'■ ’ - • »»»»'■*'*' '* , ,- t f V. • ‘ ■ >■^'•'.' ; * ' ■■ ■' '■• ■■ V’,,. ‘ -vi r.’ r--' ; \ ■ ff: • , ' • * ■ ^ • ' •* • -^1: X* . ' f , i ,;S, i^vr < *• 1*. ^ ■ ►' • ' <» -,-s< • • f xS - ‘ ‘ .,MJ.".(- .-tVj • i ,J j“: • ••*' ' ''t ■ ' '=“1 *' 4 H' A.-’'"... j;.' • rrr>*^ ‘- * • ►,:t'r-'rf; 5.*ADVERTISEMENT TO THIS NEW EDITION, BT THE TUBLISHER. The firft Volume of this work contains the Ofleology of Dr Alexander Monro, fenior, a performance which has been tranflated and publiflied in the moft fplendid form in fo- reign countries. The publilher being in polTef- lion of the beautifully engraved head of the Author, by Balire from the original painting of Ramfay, fo much celebrated by Mr Lavater in his ingenious Book on Phyfiognomy, thought it might not be unacceptable to the public, to be prefented with fo elegant an engraving of the father of the Medical School of Edinburgh. It is therefore given as an embelliflimenc to this new edition^ of the Syftem of Anatomy and Phyhology, which contains fo much of his valuable writings. The words of Lavater, on feeing an impreffion from this very plate, fliall here be added ; and thofe{ 2 ) thofe who knew the man beft, will teflify to the juitnefs of the characfter drawn of Dr Monro. Mr Lavater fays, “ A good, gentle, and peaceable chara6ler,: ** of a fanguine phlegmatic temperament. 1 he “ goodnefs is depicfted in his eyes; the mouth “ breathes only peace; and an amiable ferenity “ is diffufed over the whole countenance. This “ man is incapable of giving offence to v any • “ one, and who could ever fuffer 'himfelf de- “ fignedly to offend him —He loves tranquiU “ lity, order, and fimple elegance. He takes “ a clear view of the fubjecfl he examines ; he “ thinks accurately j his ideas, and his reafon- “ ings, are always equally well followed up: “ his mind rejects all that is falfe or obfcure. f “ He gives with a liberal hand, he forgives “ with a generous heart, and takes delight in “ ferving his fellow creatures^ You may fafely “ depend on what he fays, on what he pro- “ mifes. His fenlibility never degenerates “ info weaknefs; he erteems worth, find it where he may. He is not indifferent to the “ pleafures of life; but fuffers not himfelf to ** be enervited by them. This is not what is ufually denominated a great man; but he “ poffeffcs( 3 ) pofleflcs a much more exalted characfler ^ “ he is the honour of humanity, and of his rank in life.” “ Rcfpetflable perfonage, I know you not; “ I am entirely in the dark concerning you: “ —but you fliall not efcape me in the great “ day which fliall collecfl us all together ; and “ your form, difengaged and purified from “ all earthly imperfedion, fhall appear to me, and firikc my raviflied ey«, in tlie midd of “ myriads.” 0CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME. Page INTRODUCTION, or a Compendious View of the Parts of the Human Bod^. - - xv PART I. Of the Human Bones. Chap. I. Of the Bones in general, - - ^ Chap. II. Of the Skeleton, - - ^2 Sedt. t. Of the Head, - • § I. The Cranium, - • ’ - ib. § 2. Bones of the Face, • _ . iGi Se(Tl. II. Of the Trunk, - - ^37 § I. The Spine, . - ib. § 2. The Pelvis, - i, l66 §■ 3. The Thorax, - - Se£l. III. Of the Superior Extremities, - ^ I. Shoulder, . ^ " ib. § 2. The Arm, - . - 201 § 3. 27j(* Forewarn!, - , 2 06 § 4. T/jf Hand, m _ 212 Sea.X C O N T E' N T S. Tags Se(Sl. IV, Of the Inferior Extremities, - 226 $ I. 'The Thigh, - - 227 § 2. The Leg, _ , - 232 § 3. The Foot, - - 242 Appendix. 0/the Female Melehn, - ■ 256 ■ PART II. ( Defeription of the Human Mufcles. Chap. I. Mufcles of the integuments of the Cranium, 264 Chap. II. Of the mufcles of the Ear, - 265 Chap. III.. Ofthe Mufcles of the Eyc-iids, - 269 Chap. IV. Mufcles of the Eye-ball, - 271 Chap. V. Mufcles of the Nofe, - 273 Chap VI. Mufcles of the Mouth and I,ips, - 274 Chap. VII. Mufcles of the Lower yaw, - 279 CtlAP. VIII. The Mufcles which appear about the an- terior Part of the Nech, - 281 Chap. IX. Mtfcles ftuated between the Lower faw and Os Hyoides, - - 283 Chap X. Mufcles ftuated between the Os Hyoides and Trunk, - - 285 Chap. XI. Mufcles ftuated^ between the Lower faw and Os Hyoides laterally, - 287 Chap. XII. Mufcles ftuated about the Entry to the Fauces, - - 250 Chap. XIII Mufcles ftuated on the pofierior Part of the Pharynx, ~ 292 Chap. XIV. Mufcles ftuated about the Glottis, 294 Chap. XV. Mufcles ftuated on the anterior Part of the Abdomen, - ^ 296 Chap.CONTENTS. xi b 2 PART CiiAr. XVI. Mttfdes about the Male Organs of Gene- ratio Uy - “ 3®^ ^ Chap. XVII. Mujclesof the Anusy - 304 Chap. XVIIl. Mujcles oj the Female Organs of Gene- ration y - - 305 Chap. XIX. Mufclesfituatcd ivithin the Pelvisy 307 CtlAP. XX. Mujcles ftualed -within the Cavity of the Abdomen, - 308 Chap. XXI. Mufcles fiuaied on the anterior Part of the Thorax y - 312 Chap. XXII. Mufcles fituated hetiueen the Ribs and •within the Thorax, - 3 t4 Cl-IAP. XXIII. Mujcles fituated on the anterior Part of the Neck clofe to the Vertebra, - 316 Chap. XXIV. Mufcles fituated on the pojierior Part of the Trunk, < - 317 Chap. XXV. Mtfcles of the Superior Extremities, 329 Caap. XXVI, Mufdes fituated on the Os Humeri, 333 Chap. XXVII. Mujcles fituated on the Cubit or Fore- arm, - . 335 Chap. XXVIil. Mufcles fituated on the Hand chiefly, 342 Chap. XXIX. Mufcles of the Inf •rior Extremities, 349 Chai^ XXX. Mufcles fituated on the Tlngh, • 354 Chap. XXXI. Mufclesftuated on the Leg, - 360 Cpiap. XXXII. Mufcles •which are fituated chiefly on the Foot, - - 367 Of Mufcular Motion, - ~ 07^ !CONTENTS- XU PART PART III. Explanations of the Skeleton and Mufcles. Table I. A front View of the Human Skeletony with fame of the Ligaments and Cartilages which cOnneB the Bones of each othery 397 Table II. The firjl Layer of Mufcles fttuated on the an- terior Part of the whole Bodyy immediately under the common Tegumentsy and tendi- nous F of dee y - 401 Table III. The fecond Layer of Mufcles Ofi the anterior Part of the whole Body, - 404 T able IV. Reprefcnts the right Eye bally the ftx Mufcles which move ity taken out of the Orbity - With the Optic Nerve. 40 7 Table V. A back View of the Human Skeletony with fome of the Ligaments y and Cartilages which eonneEl the Bonesy - 413 Table VI. A back View of the Mufcles which are imme- diately fituated below the common Integu- ments y - ^ - 414 Tabe VII. I he fecond Layer of the Mufcles on the Back Part of the Body, - 416 Table VIII. Tbe third Layer of Mufcles on the poferior Part of the Body, with fome of the Liga- ments and naked Bones, - 420 Table IX. A front View of the Bones of a Female Skeleton y - - 425 Table X. A lateral View of the Bones of a Female Skeleton y - - 427xili CONTENTS. PART IV. An Enumeration of the Cartilages, Ligaments, See. of the Joints. Thofe of the Head, of the Vertebra, of the Sternum and Ribs, of the Superior Extremities, oj the Pelvis and Inferior Extremities, Page 428 43* 43<^ 439 448 PART V. A Deferiptioh of the Common Integuments. Cuticula, Corpus Mucojum, Cutis Vera, Glands of the Skin, Ufes of the Skin, Membrana Adipofa and Fat, The Nails, ’The Hairs, I hefuppo/ed Integuments rf the Antients, Ufe of the Skin and the Nature of Touch, 464 466 467. 471 ib. 472 476 477 479 480 IN- • 1IINTRODUCTION. \ r A Compendious View of the Parts of the Human Body. IntYodiiPilon. human body is compofed of firm and liquid parts, commonly called fol'ids and fiuids. Of the folid parts fome are hard, others foft and flexible. The folid parts are the chief fubjeft of anatomy properly fo called ; by which term, borrowed from the 'Greek, we underfland not only an artful decompofitlon of the parts of the body, but alfo a methodical demonltration and deferip- tion of the feveral parts when difledfed. The hidory of the fluid parts comes into a fyftem of ana- tomy, only occafionally; becaufe it properly belongs to what is called phyfiology^ or the animal economy. Anatomilts ordinarily reduce all the folid parts under certain general clafles, exprelTed by the common or gene- rical names of honey cartilagey ligament, fibre, membrane, ’vejfel, artery, vein, nerve, mufcle, gland, fat, vifeus, or- gan, £3’<r. *. ■ Ihefe terms are anatomical words, which exprefs feve- ral parts that have nearly the fame llru£lure to outward ap- pearance ; * The antients, who fettled a general divifion of the parts of the human body, from the mere outward appearance of the (Irudture, called fome 7s- nitiir orand the reft organical or compounJ,f CofUpendious View of the pearance ; and as they are often mentioned, we fliall here give an explanation of them. / ExpUcaiwt of the general Terms of Anatomy > By Bones, we mean in general the hardeft, moll folid, and mofl: inflexible parts of the human body ; the particu- lar hiltory of which is contained in the defeription which fliall be given of the Dry Bones. A cartilage is a whitifli or pearl coloured fubftance, foft- er than a bone, but harder than any other part, fmooth, polifhed, pliable, and elaftlc. The cartilages {hall be ex- plained with the Dry Bones and Joints. A ligament is a white, fibrous, compa£l: fubftance, more pliable than a cartilage, difficult to be broken or to be torn,^ and yielding but a very little when drawn out with force. The ligaments fhall be explained at full length in the de- feription of the Joints. The name of fibre is given to fmall filaments, which ap- pear to be the moft fimple parts of the body, and which, by their different difpofition and connections, compofe all the other parts. The fibres differ in fubftance, being ei- ther membranous, flefhy, tendinous, or bony ; in direc- tion, being either ftraight, oblique, longitudinal, tranf- verfe, circular, or fpiral j and in fize, being either large, fmall, long, or fhort. By membrane, we underftand a pliable texture of fibres interwoven or difpofed together in the fame plane. They difler in thicknefs, according to the fmallncfs of their fibres' •and number of their planes. Thefe particular planes are termed lamina, and are diftinguilhed into external, inter- nal, middle, &c. The difference of membranes in general depends on that cf the fibres, of which they are compofed. Small por- tionsIiitrol. Patts of the Human Body. xvll tlons of membranes, efpeci.illy when they are very thin, are c^Wcd pe/lic'uhe \ and fonae membranous laminjc are united together by the intervention 6f a particular fubhance, coni- pofed of this fort of pellicles, and called the cellular or fpon- gy fubjlance. Veffeh are tubes, du£ls, or canals, more or lefs flex- ible, compofed of different membranes, the flrata of which are generally termed iun'ice or coats. Some of them are divided into branches, and thefe again into rami and ra- mifications, which gradually diminifh, but flill remain hol- low. The general defign'of the veflels is to contain fluids; from the diverfity of which they^’are diftinguiflted into blood-vefTels, vafa laftea, lymphatica, &c. The laft and fmaliefl extremities of all forts of vefTcls are generally term- ed capillaries^ The blood vejfels are of tWo kinds; one of which re- ceives the blood from the heart, and diftributes it to all the parts of the body, and are named arteries ; the other brings the b'ood from all the parts back to the heart, and are called veins; and fome of thefe have the name of finufes. lire arteries are thicker than the veins, and may be dlf- ilnguiflied by this mark in difle£ted dead bodies ; and in li- ving bodies they are known by a certain beating called the pulfe.\'Vht trunks of the veins lie nearer the furface of the body than the arteries, and are fnrnifhed with valves, that is, with fmall membranous facculi, fixed at different diflances to the fides of their cavities. The openings of thefe valves are broad, and. turned toward the heart •, but their bottoms are turned the contrary way. In fome places thefe valves arc Angle, in others double, triple, &c. By nerves^ anatomlfls mean the white ropes which pro- seed from the cerebrum, cerebellum, and foinal marrow. Vox.. I. c andxviii Compendious View of the Introd. and are fpread over all the parts of the body by filaments and ramifications. Each nervous rope may be confidered as a membranous vcflel, the cavity of which is filled by a great number of membranous longitudinal fepta, and by medullary filaments whn;h lie between the fepta. I are bundles of fibres, called by-anatomifts fibrte motrices, of a reddiflr colour, and of different lengths. The middle portion of the moving fibres is the principal, and differs from the extremities in being red, thick, foft, and capable of contra£Hon. Tliis middle portion of each moving fibre is faid to be flefhy, and forms what is properly called fe/Is. The extre- mities are called tendinous^ and the fubftance formed by them tendons. Glands are clufters or moleculac, difUnguifliable from all the other parts of the body by their form, confidence, tex- ture, and connedlion. They are, in general, compofed of arteries, veins, nerves, and other particular veffels, and of a fubdance which u- nities all thefe together in their different folds, contor- tions, and intertextures, all inveded by a membranous co- vering. The office of glands is to feparate from the mafs of blood, by means of certain fecretory veffels, fluids, which they difeharge, either immediately, or by other veffels term- ed excretory ; and thefe fluids are cither accumulated in particular refervoirs, collected in the common cavities, or forced out of the body. ' Fat and marrow are equivocal terms. By the fird we ge- nerally underdand an oily, feft, white, or yellowiffi ffib- ftance, of different confidences, colle6led between the flein and the mufcles, in the interdices of the mufclcs about the vifeera, &c. and compofed partly of a ccllulous or fpongy fubdance,Parts of the Human Btsdy. Introd. ftbftance, purely membranous, and partly of an oily mat- ter of different thlcknefs. This oily matter is called fat, efpecially when feparattd from the cellulous fubflance, and likewife corpus adspo/utn by anatomifls. Marrow differs from fat only in the finenefs of the mem- branous texture, in the fubtility of the oily matter, and its fituation within the bones. By vifcera, we commonly underftand parts contained in a great cavity, without being conneded to it through . their whole extent or circumference. Such are the fto- mach, inteflines, &c. in the abdomen; and the lungs in the thorax. Organ or infrument is a term given to every part ca- pable of any fundion, whether it be Ample or complex ; and in this fenfe we talk of the organ of fight, of refpi- ration, &c. General Div 'fion of the Human Body. ✓ The Human Body is commonly divided into the head, 'trunk, and extremities. The trunk is again fubdivided into the neck, therax, and abdomen ; and the extremities into fuperior, called the arms, and inferior, called the legs. The antients divided the body into three great cavi- ties, which they termed venters, and into four extremi- ties. They called the head the upper venter, the thorax tihe middle venter, and the abdomen the lower venter. The neck was by fome joined to the'head; by others, to the thorax. The moft natural and plaineft divifion of the body, is- into the head, neck, thorax, abdomen, arms, and legs ; each of which portions may afterwards be fubdivided. Each porcion is to be examined not only with regard to. its furfacc or external conformation, but alfo with regard c Z to • t fIn,trod. XX Compendious Vievs of ihe to Its Internal ftrufture or compofitlon, and to the vifcera or organs which It contains or fuppoits. This Is what gave occafion to the antlents to divide the body into parts containing and parts contained and to fub- divide the containing parts into common and proper. The common containing parts have been named integumeritSy by which they meant chiefly the fkin and fat. External Parts of the Head. The Head, viewed on the outfide, is divided into the hairy fcalp and face. The inner parts of the head are furrounded by the bones of the cranium. The hairy fcalp covers the upper part of the os frontisy I the ofTa parietalia, the os occipilis, and the upper and lower portions of the ofl'a temporum. . The uppermoft part of the hairy fcalp is termed tlie ver- tex or fontanella ; the back part- occiput; the lateral parts, the temples. The vertex is dillinguiihcd from the occiput by contorted hair, and from the temples by the ears. The arteries on each fide of the hairy fcalp are ; Artcria carotis externa, in general ; arteria temporalis ; artcria oc- cipitalis *, arterla angularis, by com.munication ; arteria .frontalis, a branch of the internal carotid. The veins on each fide of the hairy fcalp are : Vena jugularis externa, in general ; vena jugularis externa po- fterior ; vena temporalis ; vena occipitalis ; vena jugularis externa anterior, by communication ; vena jugularis inter- na, by communication. The nerves on each fide of the hairy fcalp are, Nervi fuboccipitales, commonly called the tenth pair from the me- dulla oblongata ; par primum cervicnle ; par fecundum ccr- vicale.Introd, Parts of the Human Bod^ xxl vicale, by communication ramus frontalis of the otbitai> ry or ophthalmic nerve ; nervus fympatheticus minor, cal- led the port to d^ira of the auditory nerve. V The face comprehends all that portion of the furface of the head which lies between the hairy fcalp and the neck, viz. the forehead, eyebrows, palpebrte, eyes, nofe, mouth, chin, cheeks, and ears, / The external parts of the e‘je are: The anterior portion of the globe of the eye, tiffe membrana conjunctiva, tha cornea lucida, caruncula lachrymalis, angles of the palper brae, and the cilia, or hairs of each palpebra. The inter- nal parts are ; the globe of the eye, the iris and pupil, the tunica fclerotica or cornea bpaca, the choroides, arach- noldes, cryftalllne, vitreous humour, aqueous humour, the anterior and poltcrlor chambers, the mufcles, and tht; optic nerve. The external parts of the ear arc : The great concha, the convex fide of this concha, or hinder part of, the ear, the great border, the fold or helix, the concavity, the broad eminence or arrtihelix, the fmall anterior eminence or tragus, the fmall pofterior eminence or antitragus, the lobe or lower extremity of the ear, and the meatus. The external parts of the nofe are; The upper extremi- ty or root of the nofe, the arch or back, the fides of that arch, the tip of the nofe, the ala?, the nares, and the fep- tum narlum. The internal parts are the cavity and bottom of the nares, the convolutions, the maxillary, fphenoidal, frontal, and ethmoidal finufes. The external parts of the mouth are : The lips, one up- per, the other lower, the angles or commiffures cf the lips, the border or edge of each lip, the foffula which runs from the feprum narium to the edge of the upper lip, and thexxli Cotnptndious View of the Introri. the tranfverfe fold which feparates the upper lip from the chin. The internal parts of the mouth are: The palate, the feptum palati, the uvula, the amygdalae, gums, fraena of the lips, the tongue, its apex, roots, fides, and fraenum. The other internal parts of the mouth, eye, nofe, and ear, fuch as the glands, membranes, mufcles, &c. mufl. be re- ferred to the particular deferiptions of thefe parts. 'rht cheeks are the lateral parts of the face, reaching down- ward from the eyes and temples, between the nofe and ears. The’upper prominent part of the cheek is commonly terns- cd mala. The chin is the anterior protuberance, by which the low- er part of the face is terminated, from whence it runs all the way to the neck. This under part of the chin, is termed the bafts; and it is didinguiflied from the throat by a tranfverfe fold, which reaches from ear to ear. In the middle of the chin, there is fometimes a foflula or dc- preffion. The exterior arteries which belong to each fide of the face are : Arteria carotis externa, in general; artcria faci- alis; arteria temporalis; arteria carotis interna, by com- munication. The exterior veins dillributed to each fide of the face are; Vena jugularis externa; vena jugularis interna, by communication; vena facialis ; vena temporalis. The exterior nerves fpread on each fide of the face are : Nervus olfa£l;orius; nervus otbitarius five ophthalmicus^ nervus maxillaris fuperlor; nervus maxillaris inferior; por- tio dura of the auditory nerve; the fccond pair of the ner- vi cervicales. The arteries of the forehead are : Arteria temporalis, ar- teria angularis, which are branches of the external caro- tid ;Introd. Flirts of the Human Body. »iclu tid ; arterla frontalis, which is a branch of the internal ca- rotid. The veins of the forehead are: Vena frontalis; vena temporalis; vena angularis; finus orbitarius. The nerves of the forehead are : Ncrvus orbitarius five ophthalmicus; nervus maxillaris fuperior ; nervus maxilla- ris inferior ; portio dura of the nervus auditorius. The arteries w'hich go to the eye are : Arteria occularis, which is a branch of the internal carotid ; arteria facialis five angularis; arteria maxillaris interna, which are branch* €S of the external carotid. The veins which belong to the eye are: Vena tempora- lis, which is a branch of the pofterior external jugular ; vena frontalis, and vena angularis, which are branches of the vena fafcialis ; finus orbitarius ; vena jugularis interna, by communication. The nerves belonging to the eye are ; Nervus opticus ; nervus motor communis, or the third pair ; nervus troch- learis, or the fourth pair; nervus orbitarius five ophthal- micus ; and nervus maxillaris fuperior, branches of the fifth pair ; nervus motor externus, or the fixth pair ; por- tio dura of the auditory nerve; nervus fympatheticus maxi- mus, by communication. The arteries dilbributed to the nofe are : Arteriac maxil- laris externse; arterix maxillaris internac ; arteria occula- ris; arteria labiorum orbicularis, by communication. The veins belonging to the nofe have their names corre- fponding with thofe of the arteries. The nerves which go to each fide of the nofe are : Ner- vus olfaiStorus; nervus orbitarius five ophthalmicus, both immediately and by communication ; nervus maxillaris fu- perior ; portio dura of the auditory nerve. The arteries which go to the ear are: Arteria tempera* lis,Compendious View of the Intro-d. lis, a branch of the external carotid; arteria auricularls, a branch of the temporalis •, arteria occipitalis, by communi- - cation; arteria vertebralis, by means of the arteria bafila- ris, which is a continuation of it; arteria carotis interna* by communication with the arteria bafilaris. The veins belonging to the ear are : Vena temporalis vena occipitalis ; vena cervicalis; vena jugularis interna, by feveral communications; finus petrofus durse matris. The nerves diftributed to the ear are : Nervus maxillaris inferior, the third branch of the fifth pair ; nervus audito-> rius, the feventh pair; nervus fuboccipitalis, ,the tenth pair by communication ; the fecond cervical pair ; nervus fym- patheticus maximus. “ ! The arteries which go to the mouthy tongue, are : The artery of the chin; arteria coronaria five orbicularis labiorum, both being branches of the external carotid ; ar- teria. maxillaris interna ; arteria palatina, a branch of the maxillaris externa; arteria fublingualis. The veins belonging to each fide of the mouth, tongue, are : Vena maxillaris externa; vena maxillaris interna; venae raninx. All thefe are branches of the external jugu- , lar. Vena jugularis interna, by feveral communications; vena gutturalis fuperior, a branch of the internal jugular. The nerves dillributed to the mouth, tongue, and faliva- vary glands, &c. are : Nervus maxillaris fuperior; nervus maxillaris inferior, both branches of the fifth pair ; portio dura of the auditory nerve; the eighth pair; the ninth pair; the fecond pair of cervical nerves ; nervus fympathe- ticus maximus, by communication. The cheelis on each fide arc furnlflied with arteries and veins from the nearelt ramifications of the temporal and maxillary arteries and veins j and with nerves from the , porti®Pavts oj" the Muttuin Body^ XXV Introd. portio dura of the auditory nerve, and from the fuperior and inferior maxillary nerves. Parts ’Within the Cranium, The Cranium comprehends all that portion of'the head, which reaches from the upper part of the orbit to the up- per and back part of the neck ; at the fides it extends a# low as the palTagcs Ijito the ears. It is lined internally by the dura mater, and divided by a procefs of that membrane into a large upper cavity and a fmall under one. The upper cavity contains the cerebrum, the under one contains the cerebellum and medulla oblon- gata. The arteries of the brain are : Arterite carotldes inter- nsE; arceriae vertebrales.—The arteries of the dura mater are, the arteritc durae matris, medite maximie, &c. Ihe veins of the brain run to the finufes, and thefe end in the venae jugulares Internae. Parts of the Neck in general. The Neck, in general, is divided into tlie anterior part or throat, and pollerior part or nape. The throat begins by an eminence, and terminates by a foffala. The nape ■begins by a foflula, which, as it defeends, is gradually loft. The neck contains the larynx, a part of the trachea arteria, the pharynx, a part of the cefophagus, the mufeu- li cutanei, fterno-maftoidiei, fterno-hyoidrel, thyro-hyoidaei omo-hyoidaei, fplenius complexus, the mufeuU vertebrales, which lie upon the firft feven vertebrae, and a portion of the medulla fpinalis. The arteries which go to the neck are: Arteriae caroti- des externae, and internae; arteriae vertebrales; arteriae cervicales. The viitis belonging to the neck are: Venae jugulares in •VoL. I. d general j2txvi Compendious Vietv of the IntroJ* general; venx jugulates externse, and internae; venae cer- vicales; venx vertebrales. The nerves diftributed to each fide of the neck arc: Portio dura of the auditory nerves; the eighth pair ; ner- vus accelTorius o£favi parisj the ninth pair; nervus fub- occipitalis, or the tenth pair; the feventh cervical pair; nervus fympatheticus maximus. Paris of the horafi. ' By the Thorax we commonly underftand all that part of the body which anfwers to the extent of the fternum, ribs, and vertebrae of the back, both outwardly and in- wardly. The thorax Is divided Into the anterior part, called com- monly the breafly the pollerior part, called the back\ and the lateral parts, called the right and left ftdes. The external parts of the thorax, befides the fkin and membrana adipofa, are principally the mammae, and the mufcles which cover the ribs and fill the fpaces between them. In the mammae we fee the papillae or nipples, and a fmall coloured circle which furrounds them. The mufcles are, the pe<Slovales majores and minores, fubclavii, ferrati majores, ferrati fuperiores pollici, latiflimi dorfi, and vertebrales; and to thefe we may add the cuculares rhomboides and mufcles which cover the fcapula. The internal parts of the thorax are contained in the large cavity of that portion of the trunk which the antients called middle venter y but the moderns name it limply the ccpvity of the brenjl. The cavity is lined by a membrane named pleuruy and divided into two lateral cavities by a membranous feptum named mediaf inumy which is a pro- dudlion or duplicature of the pleura. Thefe parts are the heart, pericardium, trunk of the aorta, great arch of the aorta, beginning of the carotid andIntrod, Paris of the Human Body. ' xxvii and fubclavian arteries, the fuperior portion of the de- fcendwg aorta, the ir.tercoftal arteries, the vena cava fupe- rior, vena azygos, termination of the fubclavian veins, a portion of the afpera a'rteria, and of the ocfophagus ; the du£fus laffeus or thoracicus, the lungs, pulmonary artery, pulmonary veins, &c. The arteries and veins which particularly belong to the thorax are: Arterise and venae thoracicae, fuperiores and inferiores; arterias and venae mammariae, internae and ex- ternac j arterix and venae intercoftales, fuperiores and in- feriores j arterlae and vense fpinales, with the yenal finu- fes of the canal of the fplne. The neries diftributed to the thorax are : ISJervi fvmpa- ihetici medii, or the eighth pair; nervi fympathetlci uni- verfales, commonly called intercojiales; the twelve dorfal pairs j nervi diaphragmatic!; nervi thoracici externa. The cavity of the thorax is terminated downward by the diaphragm, which parts it from the abdomen. Parts of the Abdomen. The Abdomen begins immediately under the thorax, and terminates at the bottom of the pelvis of the olTa inno- minata. Its circumference or outer furface is divided int® regions; of which there are three anterior, viz. the epi- gaftric or fuperior region, the umbilical or middle region, and the hypogaftric, or lower region. There is but one pofterior region, named re^io lumbaris. The epigafric region begins immediately under the ap- pendix enfiformis at ,a fmall fuperficial depreflion called the pit of the flomach, and in adult fubjefts ends above the na- vel at a tranfverfe line fuppofed to bie drawn between the laft falfe ribs on each fide. This region is fubdivided into three parts, epigafrium^ already named; and two lateral regions, termed hypochon- d 2 dria.Compendious Vievs of the Introd. dria. Ths epigaflrium takes in all that fpace which lies be* tween the faife ribs of both Tides, and the hypochondria are the places covered by the faife ribs. The umbilical region begins in adults, above the navel, at the tranfverfe line already mentioned ; and ends below the navel at another tranfverfe line, fuppofed to be drawn parallel to the former, between the two criftae of the ofla ilium. This region is likewife divided into three parts ; one middle, which is properly the regio umbilicalis •, and two lateral, called ilia or the fanks ; and they comprehend the fpace between the faife ribs and upper part of the os ilium on each fide. The hypogafric region is extended downward, from the inferior limit of the umbilical region, and is divided into three parts; one middle, called pubis ; and two lateral, called inguina or the groins. The lumbar region is the pofterior part of the abdomen, and comprehends all that fpace w^hich reaches from the lowed ribs on each fide, and the lad vertebra of the back, to the os facrum and neighbouring parts of the olfa ilium. The lateral parts of this region are termed the loins, but the middle part has no proper name in men. Ladly, the bottom of the abdomen, which anfwers to the pelvis of the Ikeleton, is terminated anteriorly by the pudenda or parts of generation ; and poderiorly by the dunes or buttocks, and anus. The buttocks are feparated by a fofla, which leads to the anus, and each buttock is^ terminated downward by a large fold w’hich didinguifhes it from the red of the thigh. This lumbar region takes in likewife the mufculus qua- dratus lumborum on each fide, the lower portions of the facro-lumbales, of the longiflimi and latidimi dorfi, the multifidus fpinse, &c. TheIntrod. Pi.rts of the Human Body* xxlx The fpace between the anus and the parts of generation is called; and is divided into two equal lateral parts by a very diftindt line, which is longer in males than in females, as we (hall fee in another place. The cavity of the abdomen, formed by the parts already mentioned, and covered by the ikin and membrana adipo- fa, is lined on the infide by a particular membrane, called perltonaum. It Is feparated from the cavity of the thorax by the diaphragm, and terminated below by the mufculi levatores ani. This cavity contains the ftomach and the Inteflines j which are commonly divided into three fmall portions, na- med duodenum, jejunum, and ileum ; and three large, called cacum, (ohn, and return. It contains likcwife^ the mefen- tery, mefocolon, omentum, liver, gall-bladder, fpleen, pancreas, glands of the mefentery, vafa latlea, receptacu- lum chyli, kidneys, renal glands, ureters, bladder, and the internal parts of generation in both fexes. The principal arteries of the abdomen are; Arteriae c- pigaftricas fuperiores, which are the lowed portions of the mammariae internae •, aorta inferior ; arteria cxliaca ; ar- teria mefenterica fuperlor; arteriae renales, called former- ly emulgentes ; arteriae fpermaticae ; arteria mefenterica in- ferior; arteriae lumbares ; arteriae iliacae ; arterix hypoga- dricx; arterix epigadricx inferiores ; artcrix hxmorrhoi- dales; arterix pudicx. The principal veins of the abdomen are ; The inferior portions of the venx mammarix internx ; venx renales ; venx lumbares ; venx fpermaticx ; venx iliacx ; venx hy- pogadricx ; vena mefaraica minor, five hxmorrhoidales ih- ternx ; vena mefaraica major ; vena fplenica; vena port* vcntralis : vena portx hepatica. The principal nerves of the abdomen are : Nervi ftoma- ehici, formed by the extremity of the eighth pair; nervi fympatheticiCtmpendious View of the Introd; fympatheticl maximi, the inferior portion^ the two femi- lunar or plexiform ganglions ; plexus ftomachicus; plexus hepaticus ; plexus fplenicus; plexus renalis; plexus me- fentericus fuperior ; plexus mefentericus inferior ; neryi lumbares ; nervi facri j n?rvi crurales, their origin j nervi feiatid, their origin. Parts of the Upper Extremities, The whole Arm is divided, as In the Ikeleton, into the fhoulder, the arm properly fo called, the fore-arm, and the hand. But to thefe we muft here add the flioulder, the aiilla or arm-pit, the elbow, the fold of the arm, and the hollow of the hand. What is called the Ihoulder, is formed by the flefhy belly of the mufculus deltoides ; and the axilla, by the correfponding edges of the pedloralis major and latif- fimus dorfi. The elbow anfwers to the oJecranum; the fold of the arm is on the fore-fide of the articulation of the os humeri, with the bones of the fore-arm, and the hollow of the hand is in the middle of the palm. The arm, properly fo called, is principally covered, from the fhoulder downward, by the biceps, brachialis, and the triceps. The fore-arm is furnilhed with thofe mufcles which move the radius on the ulna, and the carpus on the fore-arm. The hand has few very confiderable flefhy parts, except the mufcles of the thumb and little finger, the lumbricales and interoflei. The arteries of the upper extremity are : Arterla axilla- ris ; arteria humeralis ; arterite fcapulares j arteria articu- laris; arteria brachialis; arteriae collaterales ; arteria cubi- talis; arteria radialis ; arteria interofleae anterior ; arterix interoflex pofteripres. The fuperficial and deep arches in the palm of the hand. ^ The veim of the upper extremity are c Areolx ve- nofxliitrod. Parts of the Human Bod^> / nofe dorfi manus; vena falvatclla, five auricularis; vena cephalica cubiti, five radialis ; venje cubiti fatellites ; vena kafilica cubiti, five ulnaris j vena mediana, or major ; ve- na mediana cephalica ; vena mediana bafilica ; vena pro- funda cubiti j vena profunda fuperior; venae fatellites arte- rise brachialis; vena brachii cephalica i vena brachii bafili" €a; venae mufculares ; venae fcapulares ; vena axillaris. The nerves of the tipper extrem-ity are : Nervi bra- chiales in general, formed by the laft four cervical and firft dorfal pairs •, nervus fcapularis; nervus articularis} nervus cutaneus : nervus mufculo-cutaneus ; nervus muf- «ularis4 nervus ulnaris; nervus radialis. Parts of the Lower Extreimiies. The Lower Extremities of the wliole body are di- vided, as thofe of the Ikeleton, into tie thigh, leg, and foot. , The thigh begins anteriorly on one fide of the fold of the groin; and pofteriorly, a little alove the lower half of the buttock. It terminates anteriorly at the patella on the knee, and pofteriorly at the poples or ham. It is formed chiefly by the mufcles which fu’round the os femorls, which are themfelves invefted by ;hc fafcia lata, viz. the glutseus maximus, two vaftl, crureus, biceps, triceps, femi- membranofus, femi tendinofus, gracilis internus, gracilis anterior or rc£lus, and fartorius. The leg has but very few mufcles on the fore-part, but great many large ones behind ; where-the gaftrocnemii and foleus, form a kind of belly, called the calf of the leg. The leg begins anteriorly at he knee below the patella, and pofteriorly at the poples ; and It terminates below at the ancles. Be Tides the parts of the fod mentioned in the defcription •f the flteleton, that convex part near its articulation with thexxxli Compendious View of the\ Introd. A the leg is termed the neck of the foot: and the under part, which is the bafis of the whole lower extremity, the foie of the foot. The flelhy parts arc not more confiderable on the foot than on the hand. The arteries of the lower extremity are : Arteria ob- turatrix, a branch of the hypogaftrica; arteria gluttea, a branch of the hypogaftrica *, arteria fciatica, by commu- nication ; arteria pudica, by communication ; arteria clr- cumflexa externa ; arteria circumflexa interna ; arteria va- fta ; arteria cruralis ; arteria poplitea ; arteria tibialis ante- rior j arteria tibialis pofterior; arteria peronsea ; arteria plantaris. The veins of the lower extremity are : Vena plan- taris ; vena parvafaphena j vena magna faphena ; venae ti- \ biales ; venae fibuhres ; vena poplitea ; vena fciatica ; vena glutea j venae femcrales; vena obturatrix, &c. The nerves of tl e lower extremity are : Nervus cru- ralis, formed by a complication of the five lumbares, . efpecially of the hrft four; nervus fciaticus, formed by the ' union of the laft two limbares, and firft three facri; ner- vus fympatheticus maiimus by communication with th«- nervi lumbares and facii; nervus popliteus *, nervus fciati- cus internus, five poplittus internus; nervus fciaticus ex- ternus, live popliteus exiernus i nervus tibialis ; nervus fi- .bulaVis i nervi plantares* \A VoL. I. - A SYSTEM OF ANATOiMY, WITH THI PHYSIOLOGY. PART I. CONTAINING THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BONES. BY THE LATE ALEXANDER MONRO, M. D., and F. R. S Fellow of the Royal College of Phyficians, and ProfelTor of Medicine and Anatomy in the Univerfity of Edinburgh.TO THE STUDENTS OF ^NATOMY IN THR % UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. Gentlemen, ■^HEN this OJleohgy was firfl prinleA in 1726, I did not know that Albinus, Wiuflow, and Palfyn, were to publiih defcriptions of the bones ; otherwife my papers probably would have remained yet undelivered to the printers. I flatter myfelf, however, that this ejfay has been of ufe to the gentlemen who did me the honour to attend my Icftures, by affifting them to under- ftand ipy fenfeand reprefcntation of things in this fundamental part of anatomy ; and that it has poffibly been of more advantage to them than a more complete work from an abler hand, unlefs my demonftrations had been in the order and method of fuch an author. This view of your improvement. Gentlemen, is a prevailing ar- gument with me to caufe this eflay to be reprinted ; and you can- not reafonably blame me, if I Hkewife acknowledge another mo- tive for it, which more particularly relates to mf felf. In a new edition an author has an opportunity of making his works more correft, complete, and confequently more acceptable to the public, who may perhaps be indulgent enough to think this little treatife nc>t altogether ufelefs ; fince more reafoning on the ftrufture and morbid phanomcna of bones is to be found in it, than in the ether writers, who have confined themfelves almoft entirely to the de* feriptive or proper anatomical part of the ojleology. I have here kept in the plan of the former editions, by firft confidtring, in the order that feerned to me moll natural and me- tho'dical, every thing which I thought neceflary to be known con- cerning bones in general ; and, in the fecond place, 1 have de- feribed the feveral bones compofing the llccleton. The bones of adults aie what 1 principally endeavour to de- feribe,; but 1 have added as much of the qfleogenea as 1 think fer- viceable in the piaftlce of phyfic and furgery. That[ 3 3 That little might be omitted of what was formerly done on this fubjeft, I have taken all the afTiftance 1 could fiom books; but have never aflerted any anatomical faftimi their authority, with- out confulting nature, from which all the dcfcriptlons are made : and therefore the quotations from fuch books ferve only to do juf- tice to the authors, who have remarked any thing in the flruc- ture of the parts that was commonly omitted, and to initiate you in the hiftory of anatomy; which I once propofed to make com- plete, fo far as related to this fubjeft: But not being able to pro- cure feveral books, and being fenfible how many more may have never come to my knowledge, I laid afide this defign, of purpofe omitted many I could have inferted, and in fomc places I have changed an older author for a later one who has more fully or clearly deferibed what I treated of. Befide anatomifts, I have al* fo named feveral other authors to confirm my reafoning by prafti- cal cafes ; of which it is not to be fuppofed my own experience could furnifli a fufficient variety. You will readily obferve, that I quote no paflages with a view to criticife or condemn them. This precaution of giving no of- fence, is very neceflary in thofe who are fufficicntly confeious of their being liable to lay themfelvcs open to juft cenfure; and ic prevents occafions of ufelefs wrangling, in vvhich generally both ^parties are lofers, and the public has little advantage. In this treatife I always make ufe of the moft common name of each part, and have put the fynonymous name to be met with in books at the foot of the page, that the reading might be fmooth- cr, and you might confult them at your lelfure to affift you in un- derftanding different authors. The deferiptions and reafonings arc blended, without which I always find young anatomifts art foon difguilcd with authors : Their imaginations cannot follow a long chain of deferiptions, efpccially when they are not taught at the fame time the ufes which the deferibed parts ferve : Their minds muft have fome re- laxation, by a mixture of reafoning, which never miffes to ftrike the fancy agreeably, and raifes a ftrong defire to underftand the principles on which it depends. The phenomena of difeafes are. all deduced in this eflay from A 2 the[ 4 ] the ftrufture of the parts, by way of corollaries and queftions: which fuch an anatomical work confined me to. And this me- thod has otherwife a good cfFc6l : For, when a perfon meets with an ufeful propofition, and is obliged to employ ^ little thought to find out its folution, the impreffion it makes is deeper, and he acquires a fondnefs for it, as being in part his own difcovery. My pupils have frequently affured me, that they could, with very fmall refleftion, trace out the whole reafonings from which my conclu- fions were drawn ; 1 hope that their fucceffors will alfo think this an agreeable manner of being inftrufted. Thofe gentlemen who defired I would add the leAures which I pr»nounce in my college as a commentary upon the text, where the difeafes are mentioned, will, 1 perfuade myfelf, excufe me for not complying with their defiie, when they confider the defign of this Is to be a fchool-book, and how great the difference is be- tween inftrudling youth in private, and pretending to inform the public. Arl.-x.s.v, vol. v. ofMedicalEffays andObfervations,publIfh> ed in this place, Is oneof thefe Icdlures which I gave asacommentary on the paragraph {p, 14.) concerning the different kinds oicaries. In this edition, I have corredfed the miftakes and obfcure paf- fages which I difcovered In the former, and In fome places I have made the defcriptlons more full and exaft, aiming all 1 could to fhun unneceffary mlnutenefs on the one hand, and a blameable in- accuracy on the other. Wliether 1 have hit that jull medium, is what you and the public muft now judge. You have advantageous opportunities In this place of ftudymg all parts of medicine, under the profelTors of its different branches in the Univerfity, a'nd of feeing the practice of pharmacy, furgery, and phyfic, with our furgeon apothecaries, and In the royal inlir- mary, where the difeafed poor arc carefully treated. Thefe your interefl, and,, 1 hope, your inclinations, will lead you, Gentle- men "fo to Improve, as that they become the happy means of your making a confiderable figure in your feveral ftations. Whatever allKtance is in my pow'cr towards fuch a defirable event, fhall be given with the greatelt pleafure by, Your humble fervant, ALEX, MONRO.A SYSTEM I * OF. . A N , A T O M y, W ITH THE PHYSIOLOGY. PART I. OF THE • HUMAN BONES. C H A P. I. Of the BONES in general. THE PERIOSTEUM. Bones are covered by a menibranej named on that ac- count Periosteum (a), which is fo neceflary to them, lliat we muft examine its texture and ufes before we can un- derftand their ftrudlure. '1 he pertojleum, as well as moft other membranes, can be divided into/o^'err of fibres. Ihe exterior layer.?, compofed of the fibres of the mufcles connefted to the bones, vary in their number, lize, and diredion, and confequently occa- fio« (a) Msmbrana circumoHalis, omentum ofTibus impofitum.6 OFTIIEBONES PartU > Hen a very great difference in the thicknefs and ftrength of the perlofteum of different bones, and even of the different parte of the fame bone. The intertial layer is every where nearly of a fimilar flrufture, and has its fibres in the fame dire£lion with thofe of the bone to which they are conti- guous. Ought not then the name periojieum to be applied, ftridlly fpeaking, only to this internal layer, to which the others are joined in an uncertain manner and number ? Some authors [b) endeavour to prove the internal layers of fibres of the periofleum to be derived from the dura ma- ter : For, fay they, fince the membrane covering the fkull is plainly a produ£Hon or continuation of the dura mater, which paffes out between the futures} and lince there are mufcles on the head, as well as in other parts, which might furnifh a periofleum; it is needlefs to affign different ori- gins to membranes which have the fame texture and ufes. They add farther, in proof of this dodlrine, that the pe- riofteum extends itfelf along the ligaments of the articu- lations from one bone to another; and therefore is con- tinued from its origin over all the bones of the body. While anatomifts were fond of the hypothefis of all mem- branes being derived from one or other of the two that cover the brain, a difpute of this kind might be thought of confequence : but now that the hypothefis is negledled as ufe- lefs, it is needlefs to examine the arguments for or againfl it. Except where mufcles, cartilages, or ligaments, are in- ferted into the periofleum, its external furface is connedled'^ to the furrounding parts by thin cellular membranes, which can eafily be llretched confiderably, but fljorten themfclves whenever the firetching force is removed.. When thefe membranes are cut off or broken, they collapfe into fuch a fir.all fpace, that the furface of the periofleum feems fmooth and equal. When (i) Havers, Oftcolog. Nov. dife. I. p. l6-7 Chap. I. IN GENERAL. When we attempt to tear off the per'Bfteum from bones, we fee a great number of white threads produced from the membrane into them ; and, after a fuccefsful inje<fl;ion of the arteries with a red liquor, numerous veffels are not on- ly feen on the periofteum (e), but mod of the fibres fent from the membranes to the bone, fliew themfelves to be veflels entering it, with the injeded liquor in them; and when they are broken, by tearing off the periofteum, the fur- face of the bone is almoft covered with red points. The veins correfponding to thefe arteries are fometimes to be feen in tubjefts that die with their veffels full of blood; tliough fuch numerous ramifications of them, as of the arteries, Can felftom be demonftrated, becaufe few of them naturally contain coloured liquors, and fuch liquors can difficultly be injeded into them. This, however, is fometimes done {d). The great fenlibility of the periofteum in the deep-feated fpecies of paronychia, in exoftofes, nodi, tophi, and-gum- mata, from a lues venerea, or whenever this membrane is in an inflamed ftate, is a fufficient proof that it is well pro-, vided with nerves, though they are perhaps too fmall to be traced upon it; and therefore it is difficult to determine, whether they are fent along with the arteries in the com- mon way, or are derived from the tendinous fibres of the inufcles expanded on the periofteum (e). Velfds alfo pafs through the periofteum to the marrow; of which more hereafter. And frequently mufcles, liga- ments, or cartilages, pierce through the periofteum, to be inferted into the bones. ' \ Tlie (c) Ruyfeh. Epifl. 5. tab. 5. fig. i. a. Epift. §. tab. 9. fig. i, 9. (</) Sue Traite d’Ofteologie,traduit de l*Anglois de Mr. Monro; note in p. 9. {e) See the difpute about the fenfibility ef this and other membranes. In Zimmerman. DifiTert. de irritabilit.—Aft. Getting, vol. a. Haller fur la nature ferffiblc ct irritable.—Whytt’s Fhyfiolpg. eflay a.—Remar. DyTcrt. dc ftingo articular. § a6. 34.8 Part I. OF THE BONES The chief ufes tf the periofteum are : i. To allow the mufcles, when they coiitra<3. or are llretched, to move and Hide eafily upon the bones; the fmooth furface of this membrane preventing any ill efl'e£ls of their fridlion upon each other. 2. To^ keep in due order and to fupport the veflels in thejr paffage to the bones* 3. By being firmly braced on the bones, to 'alfift in fetting limits to their in- creafe, and to check their overgrowth. 4. To ftrengthen the conjundtion of the bones with, their epiphyfes, liga- ments, and cartilages, which are eafily feparated in young creatures, when this membrane is taken away. 5. To af- ford convenient origin and infertion to feveral mufcles which are fixed to this membrane. And laftly. To warn us when any injury is offered to the parts it covers; which being infenfible, might otherwife be deftroyed without our knowledge, or endeavouring to procure a remedy. When the cellular fubftance conriefting the periofteum to the furrounding parts is deftroyed, thefe parts are ,fixed to that membrane, and lofe the Hiding motion they had upon it ; as we fee daily in iffues, or any other tedious fup- purations near a bone.-' When the veffcls which go from the periofteum to the bones arc broken or eroded, a col- leftion of liquor is made between them, which produces a fordid ulcer or rotten bone. Tbis often is the cafe after fra£lures of bones and inflammations of the periofteum, or after fmall pox, meafles, fpotted feVers, and eryfipelas. Do not the diforders of the periofteum, coming rather along with or foon after the cutaneous than other difeafes5 indicate fome fimilarity of ftrufture in the periofteum and fkin ? OF THE COblPO^ITION OF BONES. The bones are the moft hard and folid parts of the bo- dy ; and like all other parts where large veflels do not en- ter,9 Chap. i. IN GENERAL. ter, are generally of a white colour; only in a living crea- ture they are bluifli, which is owing to the blood in the fmall veflTcls under their furface. The lefs therefore and fewer the veflels are, and the thicker and firmer the bony furface covering the veflels is, the bones are whiter. Hence the bones of adults are whiter than thofe of children ; and, in both young and old, the white colour of different bones, or of the feveral parts of the fame bone, is always in pro- portion to their veifels and folidities which circumflances ought to be regarded by furgeons, when they are to judge of the condition of bones laid bare. Bones are compofed of a great many plates (/), each of which Is made up of fibres or firings united by fmaller fi- brils (g); w'hich being irregularly difpofcd, and interwo- ven with the other larger fibres, make a reticular work. This texture is plainly feeii in the bones of foetufes, which have not their parts clofely compacted; and in the bones of adults which have been burnt, long expofed to the weather, or«whofe compofition has been made loofe by dif- eafes.—The chinks which are generally made according to the diredlions of the larger fibres of bones that have un- dergone the adtion of fire or of the weather, fhew the greater ftrength of thefe than of the fibres which connedt them. Numerous accurate obfcrvations of the different times in which exfoliations are made from the fides or ends of fimilar bones, might bid fair to determine what is the pro- , portional force of cohefion in the two forts of fibres. The plates are faid (/j) to be firmly joined to each other by a great fiumber of clavicull, or fmall bony proccffes, which, rifing from the inner plates, pierce through fome, and are fixed into the more external ones. Of thefe nails, B four ' (/) Squamas, braftcae, laminae. Q;) Malpigh. Anat. plant, et oper. pofthum. (t>) Gagliard. Anatom, oflium oov. invent, illuftrat, cap. i. obf. a,10 OF THE BONES four kinds* viz. the perpendicular^ oblique^ headed^ and crooked, have, been defcribed : But in bones fitly prepared, I could only fee numerous irregular procefTes rifing out from the plates (i). Though the exterior part of bones is compofed of firm compaft plates, yet they are all more or lefs cavernous Internally. In fome (e g. middle thin part of the fcapula and os ilium) the folid fides are brought fo near, that little cavity can be feen ; and in others (middle of os humeri, fe- moris, &c.) the cavities are fo large, that fuch bones arc generally efteemed to be hollow or fiftular. But the in- ternal fpongy texture is evident in young animals; and fome of it may be feen to remain in thofe of the greateft age, when bones are cautioully opened, after they have been kept fo long as to be free of the oil they contain, or after being burnt. This fpongy cavernous internal part of bones is generally called their Cancelli, or Lattice-work, and is form- ed in the following manner. The plates are firmly joined about the middle of the bone *, but as tliey are extended towards Its ^nds, the more internal parts feparate from the exterior, and ftretch out their fibres towards the axis of the bone, where they are interwoven with the fibres of other plates that have been fent off in the fame way. See- ing the plates are thus conftantly going off, the folid fides of the bones rnuft become thinner, and the lattice-w'ork mull be thicker and ftronger towards their ends. This is evident in many of them, where the folid fides of their middle are very thick, and the cancelli are fcarce obfer- vable ; whereas, at the ends, where their diameter is great- eft, the folid walls or fides are not thicker than paper, and #he cancelli are numerous, and large enough to fill up the whole fpace left between the fides. The (») Malpigh. Oper. poftham.Chap. I. IN GENERAL. ii The twifting and winding which thefe cancelli make, and the interftices which they leave, differ confiderably in figure, number, and fize ; and therefore form little cells, which are as different, but communicate with each other. Some writers [i) minutely remark thefe different appear- ances of the cancelli, after they begin to feparate from the plates; and from thence diftinguifh them into •wrinkled, perforated, and net-like. The cancelli fuflain the membranous bags of the mar- row which are flretched upon them, and thereby hinder thefe membranous parts from being torn, or removed out of their proper places, In the violent motions and different poftures which the bones are employed in. This fupport which the cancelli afford to the marrow, alfo faves its membranes and veffels, in the lower parts of the bones, from being compreffed by the weight of the marrow above. The deprefllons between the fibres of the external plates of bones appear like fo many furrows on their furface, into each of w'hich the periofteum enters; by which the furface of contaff, confequently the cohefion, between it and the bone, is confiderably jncreafed, and a greater num- ber of veffels is fent from it into the bone than if it was a plain furface. Both on the ridges and furrows, numerous little pits or orifices of canals are to be feen, by which the veffds pafs to and from the bones. After a fuccefsful injection, the arteries cari be traced in their courfe from the pits to the plates and fibres j and, in fawing, cutting, or rafping the bones of living creatures, thefe veffels dlfcover themfelves by the fmall drops of blood which then ooze out from the moft folid part of the bones. But the cleareft demonftration of the intimate diflribution of thefe fmall arteries, is, to obferve the effea: of fuch a 2 tinging (^) C^gliard. Anat, olfium, cap. j. obf. 4. 5. 6. 7,Part r. i2 OF THE BONES tinging fubftance as can retain its colour, uhen fvvallowed, digefted, and mixed with the blood of any living animal, and at the fame time has particles fmall enough to be con- veyed into the veflels of the bones; fuch is rubia tinc- torum, madder-root (/); For we fee the gradual advances which this tindure makes from the periofteum into the more internal parts of the bones, and how univerfilly the diftribution of the liquors is made, the whole bony fub- flance being tinged by it. Whether the time in which this tinged liquor pafles from the outer to the internal plates, till all the plates are made of its colour, and the time which the dlfappearing of the dye, after giving the creature no more of this fort of food, makes us think it takes to re- turn, are the fame in which the natural liquors circulate, i(t uncertain ; becaufe this tinging fubftance may move more ' flowly, or may pafs more quickly than the natural liquors do. The arteries are larger, near each end than at the middle of the large bones that are much moved; becaufe they not « only ferve the bony plates near the ends, but pafs through them to the marrow. As animals advance in age, the arteries of the bones become lefs capacious; as is evident, I. From the bones of adults having lefs blood in them than thofe of children have. 2. From many of them be- coming incapable in old age of admitting the coloured powders ufed in inje£lions, which eafily pafs in youth. And, 3. From the bones of old creatures being more dif- ficultly tinged with madder than thofe of young ones. If authors have not miflaken, tlie arteries of bones have fome- times become very large {m). We may conclude, frorn arteries being accompanied with veins, fo far as we can trace them in every other part of the (/) Philofoph. Tranfaft. 1111111,442. art. 8. num. 443. art. a. num 457. ^rt.4- Mem. de I’acad des fr.iences, I739, 1742* (to) Diemerbrock An^t. lib. 9. cap. I. Mery Hid. de I’acad, dcs fcicnces, 1704.Chap. !• INGENERAL. 13 ^ the body, that there are alfo veins in the bones; and the difappearing of the tinfture of madder, after the bones of living animals are coloured with it, could not be with- out fuch veins to carry it away; nay, the veins of bones can fometimes be injetfled, and then feen (//). The bones of a living animal are fo hifenfible, that they can be cut, rafped, or burnt, without putting the creature to pain, and the nerves dihributed in their fubftance can- not be (hewn by difledfion ; from which it might be infer- red that they have no nerves dihributed'to them : but the general tenor of nature, which bellows nerves to-all other parts fliould prevent our drawing fuch a conclufion. And if fenfibility is a fure proof of nerves entering into the compofition of any part, as it is generally allowed to be, we have fufhcient evidence of nerves here in the bones; for the granulated red flelli which fprouts out from them, after an amputation of a limb, or performing the operation of the trepan, or after an exfoliation, is exquifitely fenfible; and in fome ulcers of bones, where the periolleum was all ft- parated, the patient fulFercd racking pain, if the bone was touched with a rough inllrumcnt ; nor was he free from pain after the bone was perforated (0). The reafon why the nerves of rigid hard bones become infenfibfe, is, that all nerves muft have a confiderable degree of flexibility at the part where an objedl is applied, otherwife they can- not be alFedled by its impreflions. We fee this illuftratcd in a very common analogous cafe, the growth of a new nail; when the former one has fuppurated off, the thin membrane which fir ft appears, is exquifitely fe/ifiblt; but gradually be- comes dull in its fenfation, till it can be cut or fcraped, with- out caufing pain, after it is formed into a hard nail. From what has been faid of the veflels of bones^ it is evi- dent, (n) Sue trad, d’ofleolpg. p. 9. (0) Nicol. Mafla, lib, introd. anat, cap -30.OF THE BONES J4 Part I. dcnt^ that there is a conftant circulation of fluids in every part of them; and that there is a perpetual wafle and re- newal of the particles which compofe the folid fibres of bones, as well a^ of other parts of the body j the addi- tion from the fluids exceeding the wafle during the growth of the bones ; the renewal and wafle keeping nearly equal in adult middle age; and the wafle exceeding the fupply from the liquors in old age ; as is demonflrable from their t weight: for each bone increafes in weight as a perfon ap- proaches to maturity ; continues of nearly the fame weight till old age begins, and then becomes lighter. The fpecific gravity of the folid fides, on the contrary, increafes by age; for then they become more hard, compact, and denfe. In confequence of this, the bones of old people are thin- ner and firmer in their fides, and have larger cavities, than thofe of young perfons. The vafcular texture of bones muft make them fubjedb to obflrudlions, ecchymofes, ulcers, gangrenes, and moft other difeafes with which the fofter parts are afFedded ; and therefore there may be a greater variety of caries than is commonly deferibed (/>). Hence we can account for the following appearances. Hcemorrhagies from fungous flefli rifing out from the moft folid part of a cut bone [q). ^ The regular alternate elevation and fubfiding, or appa- rent pulfation, frequently to be feen in fome of the cells of a carious bone. Cells refembling cancelliy fometlmes’ feen in the part of a bone, which, in a natural ftate, is the moft folid and firm (r). A bone, as a tube, including another bone within it (r). On (/>) Eclin. Medical efTays and obf. vol. 5. art. 25. (y) Medical elTays, vol. 4. art. 21. (r) Ruyfeh. Thef. 8. num. 8. Thcf. IP, num, J76. (j) Idem, ibid.Chap. I. IN GENERAL. On the Internal furface of the folid parts of the bones there are orifices of canals, which pafs outwards through the plates to open into other canals that are in a longitudi- nal dire£lion ; from which other tranfverfe paflages go out to terminate in other longitudinal canals; and this flru£lure is continued through the whole fubftance of bones; both thefe kinds of canals becoming gradually fmaller as they approach the outer furface {t). Thefe canals are befl; feen in a bone burnt till it is white. When it is broken tranfverfely, the orifices of the longitudinal canals are in view; and when we feparate the plates, the tranfverfe ones are to be obferved. Here, however, we are in danger of believing both thefe forts of canals more numerous than they really are ; becaufe the holes made by the procefles connecting the plates of bones have the appearance of the tranfverfe (u), and the paflages for the blood-ve.Tels re- femble the longitudinal canals. I do not know how we are to keep free of error about the tranfverfe canals; but think we may diftinguifli between the two kinds of longitudinal ones : for the pafiages of the veflels are largcfl; near the ex- ternal furface of the bone, and every tranfverfe feClion of them is circular; whereas the longitudinal canals are largeft near the cancelll, and their tranfverfe feCtions ap^ pear to me of a flat oval figure, which may be owing to the different momentum of the fluids conveyed in them.—The ficuation of the larger longitudinal canals, and of the paf- fages of the larger velfels, makes a bone appear more denfe and compact in the middle of its. folid fides, than towards its outer and inner furfaces, where it is fpongy. We fee marrow contained in the larger tranfverfe and longitudinal canals juft now defcribed, and from thence judge that it pafles alfo into the fmaller ones. The drops of oil which w'C difeover with a microfeope every where on the (/) Havers Ofteolog. Nov. p. 43. («) Jilorgagn. Adverf. %. aniinad. 25.i6 Part L OF THE BONES the furface of a recent bone fra£lured tranfverfely, and the oozing of oil through the moll folid bones of a Ikeleton, which renders them greafy and yellow, are a confirmation of the ufe of thefe canals. Of what advantage this diftri- bution of the marrow through the fubllance of bones is, will be mentioned when the nature and ufe of this animal oil is inquired into. _Mofl bones have one or more large oblique canals form- ed through their fides for the paflage of the medullary vef- fels, which are to be deferibed afterwards. Bones expofed to a ftrong fire in chemical veffds, are refolved, in the fam,e manner as the other parts of animals, into phlegmy fplrity volatile falty fetid oil, and a black caput mcriuum. But the proportion of thefe principles varies according to the age, folidities, and other circumftances of bones. Young bones yield the larged proportion of phlegm ; fpongy bones afford mod oil; and folid ones give mod fait and black refiduum. Though this refiduum can fcarce be changed by the force of fire while it is in clofc veffels j yet, wlien it is burnt in an open fire, the tenacious oil, to which it owes its black colour, is forced away, and a wlrite earth is left that has little or no fixed fait in it (v). This earth feems to be the proper condituent folid part of bones, and the other principles give it firmnefs and tena- city : for the quantity of the earth is fo great, that, after all the other principles are feparated from a bone, its for- mer fliape and fize remain (‘Zi') *, but it is very brittle till it is mpidened with water or oil,'when it recovers fome tena- city. The increafe of the proportion of earth in old peoples bones, is one reafon of their being more brittle than thofe of young people. 2 ' Led (u) Later chemifts have difeovered this earth to be calcareous earth turated with phofphoric acid. (w) Havers Oileoloj. Nov. dife. I. p. 3a.IN GENERAL. 17 Olisp. X. Left any imagine the falts and oils of bones, while in a natural ftate, to be of the fame acrid kind with thofe ob- tained from therti by the chemical analyfis, it is to be ob- ferved, that thefe principles may be extracted from bones in the form of a very mild jelly, by boiling them in water. The bones fuftain and defend the other parts of the body. Bones are lined within, as well as covered externally, with a membrane j which is therefore commonly called Pe- riosteum Internum. INTERNAL PERIOSTEUM. The internal periojleum is an extremely fine membrane j nay frequeittly, it has a loofe reticular texture; and there- fore it is compared by fome to the arachnoid coat of the fpinal marrow: fo that we cannot txpedl to divide it into layers as we can divide the external periofteum. We can, however, obferve its procefles entering into the tranfverfe pores of the bones, where probably they are continued to ' form the intermediate canals for the marrow diftributed through the fubftance of the bones; and along with them veflels are fent, as from the external periofteum, into the bone (y). Thefe procefles being of a very delicate tex- ture, the adhefion of this membrane to the bone is fo fmall, that it feparates commonly more eafily from the bone than from the marrow whicli it contains : wherefore one might call it the common membrane of the marrow, rather than by the name it now has. But whether the one or the other defignation ought to be given it, is not worthy a difpute. From the internal furface of the internal periojleum, a great number of thin membranes are produced ; which, pairing acrofs the cavity, unite with others of the fame kind, and form fo many diftimfl: bags, which communicate VoL. I. C vdth (;r) Winllow Expofition anat, des os frais, fe£t, 8», 83.i3 Part I. OF THE BONES with each other; and thefe again are fubdivided into com- municating veficular cells, in which the marrow is con- tained. Hence it is, that the marrow, when hardened, and viewed with a microfeope, appears like a duller of fmall pearls ; and that the hardened marrow of bones, bu- ried long under ground, or laid fome time in water, and then dried, is granulous (z).— This texture is much the fame with what obtains in other cellular parts of the body, where fat is colleded ; only that the cells containing the marrow are fmaller than thofe of the twuca adipofa or ceU lulofa elfewhere ; which probably is owing to their being inclofed in the bones, where they are not fo much ftrctched or extended as in other parts. > t. OF THE MARROW. The Marro’w is the oily part of the blood, feparated by fmall arteries, and depofited in thefe cells. Its colour and confiftence m'ay therefore vary according to the Hate of the veflels, and their dillribution on the membranes of the cells. The marrow, as well as the other fat of the body, che- mically analized^ yields, befides oil and water, a conGder- able proportion of an acid liquor, but no alkali {a). This may be the reafon of its being Icfs putrefeent than the blood or mofl other parts of animals [b); which is a necef- fary quality in a fubflance that is conllantly expofed to a confiderable degree of heat, and is more in a ftagnating condition than the other liquors. BeGdes the arteries, which I mentioned already, (p.'i2.) to be fent from the bones to the marrow, there is at Icaft one artery for each bone ; feveral bones have more, whofe • principal (s) Ruyfeh. Thefaur, 9. num. 2 et Adverf. dec. in. obf. 9. (a) Grutzmakcr DilFcrt. dc oflium medulla.—Hallei element phyfiolog. lib. 4. feft. 4. {h) Pringle Appendix to camp difeafes, exper. 47. \ . 'Chap. I. IN GENERAL. 19 principal ufe is to convey and fecern this oily matter. Af- ter thefe arteries have pierced the folid fide of a bone, they are divided into fevcral branches ; whicli are foon diftributed every where on the internal periofleum, and aftervi'ai^ds fpread their branches inwards on the medullary cells, and outwards through the tables of the bone. The blood which remains after the fecretion of the mar- row is returned by proper veins, which are collcdltd from the membranes into one or more large trunks, to pafs out at the fame holes or paflagcs at which the artery or arteries enter. The general rule of the fmall vefiTcls decreafing in their capacities as animals advance in age, to which many phe- nomena in the animal oeconomy are owing, obtains here: for though the trunks of the medullary vefl’els enlarge as animals turn older, yet the fmall branches become fmaller ; as is evident from injedfions, which cannot be made to pafs near fo far in thefe veflels of adults as of children. Hence the marrow is bloody in children, oily and balmy in middle age, and thin and watery in old people. By experiments made on the marrow when bones of li- ving animals are opened or cut through (c), and from the racking pain with which fuppurations within bones are fre- quently attended, we have fulTicient proof that the mem- branes here are fenfible, and confequently have nerves diftributed to them. Hippocrates (</) might therefore fay juftly, that a wound penetrating into the cavity of a bone may produce a delirium. The veffels of the marrow, wrapt up in one common coat from the periofteum, pafs through the bones by proper canals; the meft confiderable of which are about tite mid- dle of each bone, and are very oblique. Sometimes thefe C 2 vefi'els (f) Du Verney, Memoircs de I’acad. dcs ftlences, 1700. (</) Aphoriftn. § 7. aph. 24. 'OF THE BONES Part 1. 2,0 veflels continue at a little diftance in their paflage, when the canal Is divided by a fmall bony partition or two. hrom the ftru£lure of the contents of the bones, we may judge how thefe parts, as well as others, may be fubjeft to oedema, phlegmon, eryfipelas, feirrhus, See. and may thence be led to a cure of each, before the common confequence, putrefacffion, takes place, which frequently occafions the . lofs of the lirnb, if not of the patient. The marrow is of very confiderable ufe to the bones : / > for by entering their tranfverfe canals, and paffing from them Into the longitudinal ones, it is commilnicated to all • the plates to foften and connect their fibres, whereby they are preferved from becoming too brittle ; as we fee they do , in burnt bones, or thofe long expofed to the air, in people labouring under old age, pox, or feurvy. ‘In all which cafes, the oil is either in too little quantity, or has its na- tural good qualities changed for worfe ones. Befides this advantage which the fubflance of bones has from the marrow, their articulations are faid (e) to receive no lefs benefit frojn it: for it is thought that the marrov/ pafTes into the articular cavities through the holes which are in the bones near the large joints. And as a proof of this it is alledged, that butchers, upon feeing the greater or Idler quantity of marrow in the bones of cows, can tell whether they have travelled far or little before they were flaughtered. When the fnarrow, after having ferved the ufes above mentioned, is reafTumtd into the mafs of blood (as it is con- tinually in common with all other fecreted liquors that have not pnfl'ages formed for conveying them out of the body), it correds the too great acrimony communicated to the faline particles of our fluids by their circulation and heat, in the fame manner' as lixivial falls are blunted by oil in making (e) Joan de Muralto Vade-mecum Anat. cxercit. 5. ^ 3. Havers Qfle'oi log. Nov. dif. 3. p. 170.Chap. I. 21 IN GENERAL. making foap. Hence, in acute difeafes, the marrow, as well as the other fat of^the body, is quickly walled, but mull be immediately fupplied by liquors from the vefl'els; feeing the cells within the bones, which have no afliftance to their contra£lion from the preflure of the atmofphere, cannot collapfe, as the tela cellularis under the Ikin does when the liquor in its cells is abforbed ; the bones there- fore are always full. Since it is the nature of all oil to become thin and rancid when expofed long to heat, and bones have much oil in their firm hard fubllancc, we may know why an ungrate- ful fmell and dark-coloured thin ichor proceed more from corrupted bones than from the other parts of the body ; and we can underftand the reafon of the changes of colour which bones undergo, according to their different degrees of mortification.—Hence likewife we may learn the caufe ^of a fpina ventofa, and of the difficulty of curing all ca- ries of bones proceedjng from an obftru£lion and confe- quent putrefaftion of the marrow •, and of the quick pulfe, thirfl, and heflic paroxyfms, fo often attending thefe dif- eafes. Thefe phenomena alfo teach us the reafon of the fatal prognofis taken from black fetid urine in fevers. Though bones fo far agree in their ftrifdlure and annexed parts, yet we may obferve a confiderable difference among them in their magnitude, figure, fituation, fubftance, connec- tion, ufes, &c. From which authors have taken occafion to dillinguifh them into as many clalfes us they could enumerate of thefe different circumflances. But thefe being obyious to every perfon that looks on bones, I fhall only mention one of them ; which comprehends very near the whole bones of the body, and at the fame time leads as to examine the mofl con- fiderable variety that is to be found in the difpofition of their conftituent parts, and in their ufes. It is this, that fome bones are bnadzx\A Jlaty while others are long and round. 3 ' THEOF THE BONES 4 / THE DIFFERENT CLASSES, &c. OF BONES. The broad bones have thin fides, by the plates being foon and equally fent off to form the lattice-work ; which there- fore is thicker, and nearly of an equal form all through. By this ftrudure they are well adapted to their ufes, of af- fording a large enough furface for che mufcles to rife from and move upon, and of defending fufliciently the parts which they inclofe. The round bones have thick ftrong walls in the middle, and become very thin toward their ends 5 which is owing to very few plates feparating at their middle; where, on that account, the cancelli are fo fine and fmall, that they arc not taken notice of: but fuch bones are faid to have a large refervoir of oil in this place. Towards their ends the lattice-work becomes very thick, and rather more complete than in the other fort of bones. — Thefe round bones ha- ving ftrong forces naturally applied to them, and being otherwife expofed to violent injuries, have need of a cylin- drical figure to refift external preffure, and of a confiderr able quantity of oil to preferve them from becoming too brittle. Befides which, they are advantageoully provided with thick fides towards their middle, where the greateft forces are applied to injure them ; vi'hile their hollownefs increafes their diameter, and confequently their ftrength to re- fift forces applied to break them tranfverfely {f). Thus, for in- ftance, in eftimating the proportional refiftance of two cylindri- cal bones of unequal diameters, but confifting of an equal num- ber of fimilar fibres uniformly difpofed round each, it is plain, 1. That the abfoluce force of thefe two bones is equal, becaufe they confift of equal numbers of fimilar fibres. 2. 'That the abfolute forces of all the fibres in each bone have (/) Galilei Mechanic, dialog. I.23 IN GENERAL. OH()p. I. have the fame effeiR In refifting any power applied to break them, as if the fum of all their forces was united in the refpe£tive centres of the tranfverfe feftions where the frac- tures are to be made. For, by hypothefis, the fibres be- ing uniformly difpofed in each, there is not any fibre in either bone that has not a correfponding fibre ; the fum of both whofe diftances from the axis of revolution (about which all the parts of the bone mull revolve in breaking) is equal to two femi-diameters of the bone : confequently each fibre, and ail the fibres, may be regarded as refifting at the diftance of one femi-diameter or radius from this axis, that is, in the centre. 3. Since the united force of all the fibres is to be regarded as refifting at a diftance from the centre of motion equal to the femidiameter, it follows that the total refiftance of all thefe fibres, or the ftrength of the bone is proportional to its femi-diameter, and confequently to its diameter. I have here taken for an example one of the moft finapic cafes for calculating the proportional forces of bones. But, were it not too foreign to the prefent defign, it might be univerfally demonftrated, that of whatever figure bones are, and in whatever manner their fibres are difpofed, their ftrength mlift always be in a ratio, compounded of the area of their tranfverfe fedfions, or,of their quantity of bony matter, and of the diftance of the centre of gravity of thefe fefUons from the centre of motion or fulcrum, on which the bone is fuppofed to be broken \g). Since, therefore, the ftrength of bones depends on their number of fibres, or quantity of matter, and the largenefs of their diameters, one may conclude, that the part of a bone formerly fradured, and reunited by a callusy muft be ftronger than it was before the fradure happened •, becaufe both (^) See the demonftration of this theorem by Dr Porterfield in the Edin- burgh medical clTays, vol. i. art. 10.2(5 OF THE BONES Fart I joined,to other bones by an immoveable articulation, there are fmullcr ones annexed, which afterv/ards became fcarce diflinguilhable from the fubflance of the bone itfelf. Thefe are called epiphyfes or appefidices («). Some bones have one, others have two, three, or four of thofe appendices annexed by the means of cartilages, wl'.ich are of a confi- derable ihicknefs in children, but' by age become thinner, the ofhfication proceeding fiom the end of the bone on one fide, and from the epiphyfes on the other, till at laft, in adults, the place of their conjuncflion can fcarcely be feen on the external furface ; and it is only fometimes that we can then fee any mink of diu.in£lion in the cancelli [o). Several procclTes [e. g. trbehanters of the thigh, fpine of the fcapula, &c.) have epiphyfes; and procefles frequently rife out from epiphyfes; for example, at the lower end of the femur, ulna, tibia, 5cc. (/>). The epiphyfes are united chiefly to fuch bones as are de- ftined for frequent and violent motion ; and for this pur- pofe they are wifely framed of a larger diameter than the bone they belong to: For, by this means, the furface of contaft between the two bones of any articulation being increafed, their conjundlion becomes firmer, and the mufcles inferted into them a£l with greater force by reafon of their .'axes being further removed from the centre of motion. Thefe advantages might indeed have been obtained by the expanfion of the end of the bone itfelf to a thicknefs equal to that of the cpipliyfosbut then the conftant leparation f)f new plates to form fo wide a cellular llru(flure, muft liave left the folid Tides of the bones fo thin as to yield ea- fily, eitlicr to the aiflion of the mufcles fixed to them and paflTing over them, to the weight feveral of them are obli- geci (/;) Applantatio, addit-amentum, adnafceiitia, adnexum, perone. (o) Winflow, Expcfilion anatomique de corps humaia, traitc ('cs os fees, § ii6. (j>~) Vefal. De human, corp. fabric.a, lib. i, cap. j.I Chap. I. IN GENERAL. 27 ged to fuppoit, or to the application of any other external force. Several anatomiflis [q) though.t tliat the epiphyfes ferve other purpofes; fuch as fecuring the ligaments of the arti- culations which rife out from between the bones'and them ; for, as foon as thefe parts are intimately joined, the liga- ments infinuated betwixt them muft have a much ftronger conne£lIon than they could have to the fmcoth furface of the bones. Such an interception of the ligament between the body of the bone and its epiphyfc is not to be feen j but, the adhefion of the periofteum and ligarnents to bones being always ftronger in proportion to the fimilarity Of their confiftence, and the bones remaining longer foft, or of a fimilar confiftence with ligaments, at thefe places than any where elfe, the .opinion of thefe writers, concerning the ftronger connexion pf the ligaments where the bones and epiphyfes join, is not without fome foundation. Poffibly too, by the fibres of epiphyfes not extending' themfdves fo longitudinally as thofe of the l»nes, thcrOf may be lefs chance of the former running into each other than of the latter. The foftnefs of the ends of bones may be of fome advan- tage in the womb and in parturition; after v/hicli the offifi- cation begins at different points to form epiphyfes, before the ofTification tan extend from the middle to the ends of the bones (r). OF OSSIFICATION. However folid and compafl adult bones are, yet they were once cartilages, membranes, nay, a mere jelly. This •seeds no further proof, than repeated obfervations of em- D 2 bryos (y) Collamb. Dc rc anatomica, lib. i. cap. 2. Faljop. Expof, dc ofll* bus, cap. 14. (r) Haller fludio medic, p. 267,z6 OF THE BONES Parti joined to other bones by an immoveable articulation, there are fmaller ones annexed, which afterwards become fcarce diflinguifliable from the fubftance of the bone itfclf. Thefe are called eptphyfes or appetidices {n). Some bones have one, others have two, three, or four of thofe appendices annexed by the means of cartilages, which are of a confi- derable thicknefs in children, but' by age become thinner, the offification proceeding fiom the end of the bone on one {ide, and from the epiphyfes on the otlier, till at laft, in adults, the place of their conjunflion can fcarcely be feen on the external furface ; and it is only fometimes that we can then fee any mark, of didindlion in the cancel!i (o). Several procefTes ('<■• g. trochanters of the thigh, fp'ine of the fcapula, &c.) have epiphyfes; and procefles frequently rife out from epiphyfes; for example, at the lower end of the femur, ulna, tibia, 2cc. (/>). The epiphyfes are united chiefly to fuch bones as are de- (lined for frequent and violent motion ; and for this pur- pofe they are wifely framed of a larger diameter than the bone they belong to: For, by this means, the furface of contafl between the two bones of any articulation being increafed, their conjun£lion becomes firmer, and the mufcles infertod into them a£l with greater force by reafon of their .‘axes being further removed from the centre of motion. Thefe advantages miglit indeed have been obtained by the expanfion of the end of the bone itfeif to a thicknefs equal to that of the epiphyfes; but then the conflant feparation f)f new plates to form fo wide a cellular llruflure, muft have left the folid fidcs of the bones fo thin as to yield ea- fdy, either to the action of the mufcles fixed to them and paffing over them, to the weight leveral of them are obli- ged (/») Applantatio, aclditamentuni, adnafeentia, adnexum, perone. (e) Winfiow, Expcfition anatomique de corps humaiii, traitc t'es os fees, § ii6. (p) Vcfal. Dc human, corp. fabrica, lib. I, cap.I Chap. I. IN GENERAL. 27 ged to fuppoit, or to the application of any other external force. Several anatomifls (q) thouglit that the eptphyfes ferve other purpofes; fuch as I'ecuring the ligaments of the arti- culations which rife out from between the bones'and them ; for, as foon as thefe parts are intimately joined, the liga- ments infinuated betwixt them muft have a much ftronger conneclion than they could have to the fmcoth furface of the bones. Such an interception of the ligament between the body of the bone and its epiphyfc is not to be feen ; but, the adhefion of the periofteum and ligaments to bones being always ftronger in proportion to the fimilarity of their confiftence, and the bones remaining longer foft, or of a ' fimilar confiftence with ligaments, at thefe places than any where elfe, the .opinion of thefe writers, concerning the ftronger conneclion pf the ligaments where the bones and epiphyfes join, is not without fome foundation. roflibly too, by the fibres of epiphyfes not extending' themfelves fo longitudinally as thofe of the bones, thcrer may be lefs chance of the former running into each other than of the latter. The foftnefs of the ends of bones may be of fome advan- tage in the womb and in parturition; after which the offifi- , cation begins at different points to form epiphyfes, before the offification can extend from the middle to the ends of the bones (r). OF OSSIFICATION. r However folid and compafl adult bones are, yet they were once cartilages, membranes, nay, a mere jelly. This ■seeds no further proof, than repeated obfervations of em- D 2 bryos (y) Colliimb. Dc rc anatomica, lib. i. cap. a. Faljop. Expof. dc ofli- kiis, cap. 14. {r) Haller ^ (ludio medic, p. J67.28 OF THE BONES Part r. bryos when dlflefted : And how much more tender muft the bones be before that time, wlien neither knife nor eye is capable to difeover the leaft rudiments of them ? By de- grees they become more folid, then alTume the natute of griftles, and at lad cHOTify ; the cohelion of their plates and fibres always increafing in proportion to their increafed foliditics; as is evident from the time necefl'ary to un- ravel the texture of bones of peo^e of different ages, or of denfe and of fpongy bones, or of fhe different parts of the fame bone, and from the more tedious exfoliations of thc^ bones of adults than of children. After any part of a bone is fi^ offified, its fibres are extended little more in length at th.it part, though they in- ^creafe there in thicknefs, and though their fofter parts con- tinne to become longer (r). As the folidity of bones increafes, their periofteum more cafily feparates from them. When bones are membranous, the periofteum and they cannot be diftinguifhed ; they ap- pear to be the fame ^fubftance. When they are cartilages, their membrane adheres fo firmly to them, that it is diffi- cult to feparate it from them. Where the bony fibres are rigid, the periofteum is eafily taken off.—Is the fimilarity of ftruiffure and confequent greater attraflion of the mem- brane and fubftance it inejofes, while they are both flexible, the caufe of their greater adhefion ? or is it owing to the veffels that go from the one to the other being then larger't or do both thefe caufes combine to produce this effe£l ? or is the membrane or cartilage, which becomes bone after- wards, to be confidered as the fame fubftance with the per riofteum (/) ? and muft all thefe plates of bones be therefor# faid to be layers of the periofteum hardened {«/) ? The (j) Hale’s Vegetable flatics, p. 293. Du Hamel. Memoires dc I’ac^i. 4es fcienccs, 1742. (/) Memoir'es de/l’acad. des fciences, 1744. (u) Memoires di: I’acad. des fciences, I743-*9 Chap. I. IN GENERAL. The offificatlon of bones depentls prlncipnlly on their reflels being fo difpofed, and of fuch diameters, as to fe- parate a liquor, which may eafily turn into a bony fub- Itance, when it is deprived of its thinner parts ; as feems plain from the obfervarion of the callous matter feparated after fradlures and ulcers, where part of the bone is taken out; For, in thefe cafes, the vefi'els externling themfelves, and the liquors added to them, are gradually formed into granulated fleih; which fills up all the fpace where the bone is taken from, then hardens till it becomes as firm as any other part of the bone. '^Tliis happens frequently, ' even when the ends of the difeafod bone are at a cpnfiderable di- ftance from each other [v). > The induration of bones is alfo greatly affifted by their being expofed, more than any other parts, to the ftrong prelTure of the great weights they fupport, to the violent fontradlion of the mufcles fixed to theiriu and to the force of the parts they contain, which endeavour to make viay for their own further growth. By all this preffing force, the folid fibres and veflels'of bones are thruft clofcr, and fuch particles' of the fluids conveyed in thefe veflels as are fit to be united to the fibres are fooner and more firmly incorporated with them, while the remaining fluids are for- cibly driven out by the veins, to be mixed with the mafs of blood. In confcquence of this, the veffels gradually diminifh as the bones harden. From which again we can underftand one reafon ■why the bones of young animals- fooner re-unite after a frafture than thofe of old, and why cattle that are put too foon to hard labour feldom are of fuch large fize as others of the fame brood who are longer kept from labour. That (v) Hildan. de vuln. gravif.—Med. eflays, vol. I. art. 13. Job a Meckren, obf. 69.—Mem. de I’acad. des fciences, 174a.—Sec a colle^iot of fuch cafes Bochmer de oflium callo.30 OF THE BONES Parti. That the offifying of bones greatly depends on preflure, feems to be evinced from the frequent examples we meet with of other parts turning bony, when long cxpoftd to the prefling force of the furrounding parts, or when th^;y •are fubje£led to the like circumftances by their own. fre- quent and violent conira£lion. Witncfs the bones found frequently near the bafe of the heart in fome old men (y), and in feveral other creatures. Nay, the mufcular fub- Ilance of the heart has been oflified in fuch (z\ and the arteries of old men often become bony. The cartilages of the larynx are generally olTified in adults. In beafts of burden, the cartilages between the vertebrae of the back very often change into complete bones; and, being inti- mately united with the vertebrae, the ‘whole appears on« continued bone: Nor is the perioftcum'exempted from fuch an induration (a). To confirm this argument ftill farther, we may obferve, that bones begin their olTification at the places where they are moft expofed to thefe caufes, viz. in the cylindrical bones, from a middle ring; and in the broad ones, at op near their centre, from one or more dillindl points. The reafon of which is, TTiat thefe parts are continguous to the bellies of the mufcles annexed to the bones, where the fwd- ling of thefe moving powers is greateft. The elFecfs of this may be feen in fome of the bones, as the fcapula and olTa ilium, which are covered with mufcles on each fide; how compa£l: and thin they are in adults, where the bellies of the mufcles were lodged ; whereas in children they are thicker. But this being the middle part of thefe bones, where the greateft number of fibres is, this particular place would (j) Riolan. Comment de oflib. cap. 32—Bartholin. Hill, medic, cent. I. lift. 50. Ibid. cent. 2. hilt. 45. (c) Chefeldcn’s Anatomy, book I. introd.—Garengcot, Hift. <k I’acad. dcs Tciences, 1726. («) Peycr. Ephemerid. German, decur. 2. ann. 7. obferv. joy.IN GENERAL. 3^ Chap. I. would have been much thLker in adults, had not this for- cible caufe been applied, which has not had fuch effe£l:s in children, whofe mufcles have not been much exercifcd.— Befides, if we allow ihat all the parts of a bone are equal- ly increafdd by the conftant fupply of new particles, each fibre, and every particle of a fibre, .endeavours to make way for its own growth, by pufliing the one next to it; and confequently by far the greatefl preflure is oh the mid- dle, to make the particles firm, and therefore to begin their olTification there. Lallly, the pulfation of the me- dullary arteries, which enter the bones near to this middle part, may, as authors have alledged, contribute perhaps fomewhat to this induration. From the elFedbs of preflure only it Is that we can ac* count for the bones of old people having their fides much thinner, yet more denfe and folid, while the cavities are much larger than in thofe of young people; and for the prints of mufcles, veflcls, &c. being fo much more flrong- ly marked on the furfaecs of the former than of the latter, if they belong to people of near the fame condition in life. —Preflure mnll likewife be the caufe which, in people of equal ages, make thefe prints ftronger in the bones of thofe w'ho had much labour and cxercife, than they ard in people who have led an indolent and Ina£llve life. Perhaps both the caufes of ofllfication above mentioned may be aflilled by the nature of the climate people live in, and the food they ufe. Whence, in hot countries, the in- habitants fooner come to tlieir height of ftature than In the northerly cold regions: And thence feems to have ari- fen the common pradblce among the ladles, of making pup- pies drink brandy or fpirit of wine, and of bathing them in thefe liquors, to prevent their growing big. Nay, It has been obferved, that much ufe of fuch fpirits has occaficn- ed IOF THE BONES ^2 Part To cd parts, naturally foftj to petrify in fome, and to offify in other people of no great age From the foregoing account of the ftru«£fure of bones, and of their oflification, we , may underftand the reafons of the following phenomena. , How the natural colour of bones may be changed by fome forts of food (c). Why the bones of fome people are fo long in hardening, and in others never completely indurate. Why, in fuch whofe offification is flow, the bones are generally thicker in proportion to their lengths, efpecially at their ends 5 as in the rickets. How hard firm bones have become foft and pliable by ' iifeafes (</). Why, in fome difeafes, epiphyfes feparate from bones (e), and the ends of fradlured bones come afundcr many years after their fradfures appeared to be cured {/). ., How bones may wafte and dianinifli (g). How bones may become folk! all through, without any appearance of cancelli {h). How nodes, tophi, ^nd exoflofes, happen after the ero- fion, (/;) Littre, Hifloirt de I’acad. de» fciences, 1706. Geoffry, Meia. de I’acad. des fciences, 1706. (/) Philofoph. tranfaft. n' 442. art. 8. n® 443. art.*2. n® 457. art. 4. | Mem. de I’acad. des fciences, 1739, 1742. ’ I (</) Hirtoiie de I’acad. des fciences, 1704.- Man. 1722. Gagliardf, il Anatom. ofCum, sap. a. obferv. 3. Ephem. Germ, deeur. i. ann i. !l obf. 37. et fchol. decur. 2. ann. 7. obfer. 212, 235. dccur. 3. ann. a. obf. 3. ^ Philof. tranf. n° 470. § 3. Ibid. vol. 48. § 4. and 44. j (c) Memoirs de I’acad. des fciences, 1699. Diemerbroek, lib. 9. cap. 19. (■ —Cowper’s Anat. Explic. tab. 96. fig. I. (/) Anfon’s Voyage. (^) Chefeldcn’s Anat. book i. introd. Hill, dc I’acad. des fcienceSj, |’ 1700. j (A) Ruyfeh. Thefaur. 2. arc. 3. thef. 3. loc. I. 5, thef. 9. a’’ a. not. 3. [ Bochmer de callo offinm.Chap^ I. 33 IN GENERAL. fion of the external plates of bones in the lues venerea, fcurvy, rheumatifm, and gout. How bones exfoliate by the rifing of granulated flefli from their furface. How and from what callus is formed after a fracture (/). Why callus appears to be rather the continued fubftance of the periofteum than-of the bone, while it remains foft and flexible; but feems continued with the bone after it oirifies^iJ). Why callus is fenfible while it is foft, but becomes In- ' fenfible when it hardens. What occafions fometimes fuch difficulty In curing frac- tured bones; or why they never reunite, though they are reduced, and all proper means towards a cure are ufed (/). ————Are the bones of women with child more tedious in re-uniting than thofe of other people (?«). Why callufes, after fradures, are fometimes very thick and protuberant. ' What difference there ought to be in the application of bandages to fraclures of the bones of old and of young pa- tients. How bones, remaining long unreduced after a luxation, may have their form fo changed as to make their reduc- tion very difficult, if not impoflible (^/). Whoever is defirous to know in what time and order each bone and its feveral parts begin to afTume a bony na- Vo L. I E ture. (:) Memoires de I’acad. des fdences, 1741.-—Dehtleef de oillum callo, (i) Mem. de I’acad. 1741. (/) Meckren Obferv. medico-chirurg. obf. 71 Ruyflh. Adverf. dec. %. S 1. Obferv. anat.-chir. obf. 4.—Van Swieten in Boerhaave Aphor. § 354. (m) Hildan. centur. 5. obf. 87. ei cent. 6. obf. 68. Philofoph. tranfadr. >»° 494-§2r. (n) Saltiman, Obf. decur. obf 6. Memoires de I’acad. de chirui^c, tom. %. p. 155.——Bochmer Inftit. ofteolog. § 596,Part I, OF THE BONES- 34 ture, let him confult Kerchlngius (9), who gives us the de- lineations of abortions from three days after conception, and, traces the oflification of the bones from three weeks and a month, till the time of the birth: To whom fliould be added Coiterus {p) and Eyflbnius [q). An account of this fubje£l might alfo be collcfted out of Ruyfeh’s works, where fome of the miftakes committed by the former au- thors are corredled ; and feveral more particulars, to make the hiftory of the ofteogenea more accurate, have fince been added by Nefblt (r) and Albinus (j). » I muft refer to the authors now quoted for the more curious part of the human ofteogeny ; not having prepa- rations enough to give fuch a full hiftory of it as is done by them. But I fliall endeavour to explain the more ufe- ful and neceftary part of the ofteogeny, by fubjolning to the defeription of each bone of an adult, its condition In ripe children ; that Is, in fuch as are born at the ordinary time j and fhall point out what parts of each are after- wards joined in form of epiphyfes. This, with the fol- lowing general rules, feem to me fiifficient for underftand- ing as much of this fubje£l as is neceftary in the pracHce of phyfic and furgery. 1. Wherever I mention any parts being cartilaginous, .or their being ftlll feparable from the other parts of the bone to which they belong, I would be underftood to hint, that, about feven or eight years of age, fuch parts are of- fified and united to their proper bones, unlefs when it is faid that they are afterwards formed into epiphyfes. 2. Such as become epiphyfes are generally olTified at fe- ven or eight years of age ; but, being for the moft part • raoiftened ' (0) Anlhropograph. ichnograph. et ofteogenea foetuum. (/>) De ofllbus foetus abortivi. , (j) De ofllbus infant, cognofccncl. et curand. (r) Human ofteogeny explained. (j) leones oflium foetus humani; accedit ofteogene® brevis hiftoria.IN GENERAL. Chap. I. rr.oiftened by fynovia, their external furface is ftlll fome- what cartilaginous, and they are not yet united to their bones. 3. At eighteen or twenty years of age the epiphyfes are entirely ofhfied, and have blended their fibres fo with the body of the bone, as to make them infeparable without vio- > lence. The knowledge of this part of the ofteogeny I think ne- ceflary to prevent dangerous miflakes in the cure of feve- ral difeafes. As for example; Without this knowledge, the reparation of an epiphyfe might be miftaken for a frac- ture or luxation. The interftice of two parts of a bone not yet joined might be judged to be a fiflure. A dia- ftafis, or reparation of fuch disjointed pieces of a bone, might be thought a fraflure.- The protrufion of one piece, or its overlopping any other, could be miftaken for an excrefcence or exoftofis. Such errors about the na- ture of a difeafe would give a perfon very different indica- tions of cure from what he would have if he really under- ftood his patient’s cafe : And very often the k^^owledge of the different inequalities on the furfaces of bones, muft direct us in the execution of what is proper to be done to cure feveral of their difeafes. OF THE CONNECTION OF BONES. Having thus confidcred the bones when fingle, we ought next to fliew the different manner of their con- junftions (/). To exprefs thefe, anatoraifts have contri- ved a great number of technical terms; about the mean- propriety, and claffing of which, there has unluckily been variety of opinions. Some of thefe terms, it is necef- E 2 fary (/) Xui>Ta5(f, cvtiiric, <rufcSo\>i, ofiixia, Compofitio, conncxio, articulii. < tioj conjunflio, nodus, comraifllira, ftruftura, compages.3^ OF THE BONES. , Part I. fary to retain, fince they ferve to exprefs the various cir* cumftances of the articulations, and to underftand the writers on this fubjeft. The AllTlCULA-TIONS are moft commonly divided into three clafl'cs, viz. Symphyfis, Synarthrofis, and Di* arthrofis. I. Symphysis, which properly fignifies the conception or growing together of parts, when ufed to exprefs the articulations of bones, does not feem to comprehend, un- der the meaning generally given to it, any thing relating to the form or motion of the conjoined bones ; but by it mod authors only denote the bones to be conne£led by fome other fubdance ; and as there are different fubdances which % ferve this purpofe, therefore they divide it into the three following fpecies. 1. ^ynchondrofis («), when a cartilage is the conneftlng fubdance : thus the ribs are joined to the dernum ; thus the bodies of the vertebrae are connedled to each other; as are likewife the offa pubis. 2. Synmurefts or fyndefmeftSy when ligaments are the connedling bodies, as they are in all the moveable articula- tions. 2. Syjfarcoftiy when mufcles are dretched from one bone to another, as they mud be where there are moveable joints. II. The fecond clafs of articulations, the SvNARTtyio- sis, which is faid to be the general term by w'hich the im- moveable conjundlion of bones is expreffed, is divided into I h 1 3 3 5 c three kinds. I. The future (a;) Is that articulation where two bones are mutually indented into each other, or as if they w’ere fewed (k) Amphiarthrofis. (w) 'Pdtffl.37 Chap I. IN GENERAL. fewed together; and is formed by the fibres of two bones meeting while they are yet flexible and yielding, and have not come to their full extent of growth; fo that they mu- tually force themfclves into the interflices of each other, till, meeting with fu^i refiftance as they are not able to overcome, they are hopped from fprouting out farther, or are reflefted ; and therefore thefe indentations are very different both in figure and magnitude : thus the bones of the head are joined; thu^ epiphyfes are joined to the V bones, before their full connedtion and union with them. •Under this title of future^ the harmoma of the ancients may be comprehended *, fcarce any unmoved bones being joined by plain furfaces (y). 2. Gomphofts (z) is the fixing one bone into another, as a nail is fixed in a board : thus the teeth are fecured in their fockets. 3. Schindylefts or ploughing (a), when a thin lamella of one bone is received into a long narrow furrow of another : thus the proceflus azygos of the fphenoid, and the nafal procefs of the ethmoid bone, are received by the vomer. III. The third clafs, or Diarthrosis (h), is the arti- culation where the bones are fo loofely connedfed as to allow large motion. This is fubdivided into three kinds. 1. EnarthrofiSy or the ball and focket, when a large head is received into a deep cavity; as the head of the os femo- ris is into the acetabulum coxendicis. 2. Arthrodia^ when a round head is received into a fu- perficial cavity ; as in the articulation of the arm bone and fcapula. Thefe two fpecies of diarthrofis allow motion to all fides. 3. Gin- (y) Vefal. obfenr. Fallop, cxajnen. (s) Conclavatio. . (fl) Keil’s Anat. chap. 5. (4) Araf(pu<ri(f Dcarticulatlo, abarliculati*.Part I. 38 OF THE BONES. 3. Ginglimiis (f), which properly fignifies the hinge of a door or window; in it the parts of the bones mutually receive and are received, and allow of motion two ways: Workmen call it charnal. The gingUmus is generally divided into three kinds; to which fome [d) give the name of contiguous (e), dijlant [f)y and compound [g). The firft kind of ginglimus is when a bone has feveral protuberances and cavities, which anfwer to as many cavi- ties and procefles of the other bone with which it is articu- lated ; as in the conjundion of the femur with the tibia. The fecond fpecies is, when a bone receives another at one end, and is received by the fame bone at the other end ; as in the radius and ulna. The laft fort is, when a bone ’receives another, and is received by a third ; as in the oblique procefles of the ver- tebrae. When I firft mentioned the articulations of bones, I fald there were different opinions concerning the ufe of their technical names; e. g. It has been faid, that fymphyfts fliould be the name for the immoveable articulations, and fynarihrofts Ihould be underflood to be the conjundtion of bones by fome connedling medium Thofe who have taken fymphyfts in the fenfe I did, of its exprefling the con- jundlion of bones with a connedling fubflance, have dif- agreed in their definition of it; fome inferting, and others leaving out, its allowing motion. When they have agreed in their definition, they have not been of the fame mind concerning the fpecies of it: for feveral think the fyffaf* cofts and fyndefmofts applicable to fo many joints which are unlverfally (^) Artlculatio mutua, (i) Baker, Curf. Oflcolog. dcmonft. I. (^) Pioximus. (/) Longus. C?) Compofitus.I Chap* !• I N G E N E R A L. 39 unlverfally allowed to be clafled under the diarthrofis^ that it mull create confufion to name them by any fpecies of the fyinphyfis. Few keep to fuch a general definition of the fynchondrofis as I have done; and whether they deter- mine it to allow no motion, or an obfcure or a manifeft one, they bring themfelves into difficulties, becaufe there are examples of all thefe three kinds. Some again, by too nicely diflinguiffiing obfcure and manifeft motions of bones, have blended the fynarthrojis and diarthrofis; and from thence have branched out the different compound fpecies of articulations that may be formed of them, fo far, that they could find no examples in the body to illuf- trate them by.—It would be tedious to enumerate more of the jarring opinions, and it would be far more fo to give a detail of the arguments ufed by the difputants. It is fufficient for my purpofe that it is underftood in what fenfe I take thefe technical terms; whicfi I do in the fol- lowing manner. When I mention the fymphyfis or fynarthrofis, or any fpecies of them, I fliall always underftand them according to the explication already given of them. But though the preceding account of the diarthrofis, or articulation of moveable bones, has been almoft unlverfally received ; yet as it does not comprehend all the moveable articula- tions of the body, and one of its fpecies does not anfwer to any notion we can have of the cohjunftion of two bones, I muft beg leave to change the definitions and kinds of thefe joints. I would call diarthrofis^ That conjun£Hon of bones where- by they are fitted for motion, being each covered with a fmooth cartilage, connected by one or more common li- gaments, and lubricated with liquor at the conjoined parts: In which definition I have no regard to the quantity of motion which they really do perform j the motion being * often /Part I. 40 OF THE BONES often confined or enlarged by fome other caufc not imme- diately depending on the frame of the two furfaces of the bones forming the particular joint, which then is confi- dered. The firll fpecies of the diarthrofis, viz. the enartkrofiSy or ball and focket, I would define more generally than above, That articulation where a round head of one bone is received into a cavity of another; and confequently, without fome foreign impediment, is capable of motion to all Tides. Examples of this kind are to be feen in the ar- ticulation of the thigh-bone and ofl'a innominata; arm- bone and fcapula ; aftragalus and os naviculare ; magnum of the wrift with the fcaphoides and lunare; firfl bone of the thumb with the fecond, &c. The fecond fort, or the arthrodia^ differing from the cnarthrofis, in the preceding account, only in the cavity^s being more fuperficial, (which makes no effential differ- ence, efpecially that, in the recent fubje£l, cartilages or ligaments fupply the deficiency of bone), ought, in my opinion, to be called with Vefalius (A), that articulation of two bones adapted for motion, where it is not at firfl fight obvious which of the two has the head or cavity, or where they are joined by plain furfaces, or neatly fo ; fuch is the conjumSlion of the clavicle with the fcapula, offa cu- nciformia with the os naviculare, metatarfal bones with the’ offa cuneiformia, &c. From the nature of this fort of joint it is plain, that very great motion cannot be allowed, without the bones going further out of their natural fitua- tion than is convenient or fafe. G'wglimus^ I would reckon that articulation by the form of which the motion of the joined bones mufl be chiefly confined to two diredlions, as hinges of doors are. The firfl fpecies of this is the trochoi'desy when one bone (h) De corp, human, fabrica, lib. I. cap, turnsIN GENERAL. 41 Chap. I. turns on another, as a wheel does on its axis. Thus tlie firrt vertebra of the neck moves on the tooth-like procefs of the fecond. This is the moll; proper kind of ginglimus. The fecond fpecies fhould be efleemed that articulation where feveral prominent and hollow furfaces of two bones move on each other within the fame common ligament 5 as in the knee, &c. The third fort of ginglimus is, when two bones are ar- ticulated to each other at^ different parts, with a diftinfl apparatus of the motory machines at each; fuch is the ar- ticulation of the 03 occipitis with the firft vertebra of the neck; of any two contiguous vertebrae by their oblique proceffes; of the ribs with the bodies of tranfverfe pro- ceffes of the vertebrse; of the radius with the ulna, tibia with the fibula, aflragalus with the calcaneum. Sec. I would entirely throw out what is commonly called the third kind of ginglimus; for in examining the conjun£lion of a bone witli two others, as in the common example of a vertebra joined with the one above and below, the con- nexion of the middle one with each of the other two ought to be confidered feparatdy; otherwife wc niight, with the fame propriety, ellcem the articulations that the long bones, the femur, tibia, humerus, &c. have at their dif- ferent ends, as one articulation ; which is abfurd. If the moveable bones are not conneXed and kept firm by fome ftrong fubllance, they would be luxated at every motion of. the joints; and if their hard rough unequal fur- faces were to play on each other, their motion would not only be dilficult, but the lofs of fubllance from attrition would be great. Therefore ligaments arc made to obviate the fit ft, and cartilages to prevent the other inconveniency. But becaufe ligaments and cartilages turn rigid, inllexible, and rough, unlefs they are kept moift, a fulheient quanti- ty of proper liquors is fupplied for their lubrication, and VoL. 1. F to42 Part. I. Of the bones to preferve them in a flexible ftate. Seeing, then, thefe parts are fo necefTary to the articulations, 1 fliall next con- fidcr their ftru£ture, fituation, and ufes, fo far as they are fubfcrvient to the bones and ihtir motions. OF THE LIGAMENTS. : ■ f; Ligaments (r) are white flexible bodies, thicker and firmer than membranes, and not fo ’hard or firm as cartila- ges, without any remarkable'cavity in their fubftance, difli* cultly flretched, and with little elaflicity ; ferving to conne£l one part to another, or to prevent the parts to which they are fixed from being removed out of that fituation which is ufeful and fafe.- After maceration in water, the ligaments can eafily be divided; and each ligamentous layer appears compofed of fibres, the largeft of which are difpofed in a longitudinal dire£lion. . r. . n The arteries of ligaments are very confpicuous after a ; tolerable injeclion, and the larger trunks of their veins iare j fometimes to be feen full of blood. . Such liga,ments as form the Tides of cavities, have nu- ! merous orifices of their arteries opening upon their inter- i nal furface, which keep it alw.ays moift. If we rub off that rnoifture, and tlien prefs the ligament, we can fee the i liquor oozing out from fmallpores; and we can force thin I liquors inje£led by the arteries into the cavities formed by : ligaments. d Thefe exhalent arteries muft have correfponding abfor- i bents, otherwlfe the cavities would foon be too full of liquor. 1 Ligaments, then, nruft be fubjeeft to the difeafes com- i mon to other parts, where there is a circulation of fluids, t allowance ; (»■) 'Sir/Sto-ftoiy eopulaB, vincula.IN GENERAL. *43 Chap. I. allowance always being made for the fize of vefTels, the na- ture of the fluids, and the firmnefs of the texture of each part. Authors generally fay that ligaments are infenfible; and^ ponfequently it may be inferred, that they have no nerves bellowed on them. But the violent racking pain felt on the leaft motion of a joint labouring under a rheumatifm, the feat of which difeafe fecms often to be in the ligaments, and the infufferable torture occafioned by incifions’of liga- ments, and by a colledlion of acrid matter lin a joint, or by tophi in the gout, would perfuade us that they are a- bundantly fupplicd with nerves. i; ' . The ligaments which conne£l the moveable bones com- monly^ rife from the conjundlion of the epiphyfes of the one bone, and are inferted into the fame place of the other; or, where epiphyfes are not, they come out fron\ the cervix, and beyond the fupercilia of the articulated bones; and after fuch a manner, in both cafes, as to include the articulation in a purfe or bag; with this differ- ence, depending on their different motions, tli|at where the motion is only to be in two direflions, the ligaments are llrongefl; on thofe Tides towards which the bones are not ' moved; and when a greatdvaricty of motions is defigned . •ito be allowed, the ligaments are weaker than in the for- mer fort of articulations, and are nearly of the fame flrength allround. :id}rod} f,. .1 Part of. the capfular ligaments is compoftd of the perio- M’fleum, continued 1 from'one bone to. another, as was obfer- ved p. 6. and their internal layer is continued on the parts l Of the bone or cartilage which thei ligament includes (if), roo Befides jhefe ' Commoni capfular ligaments of the i joints, there art particular ones in feveral places, either for the firmer conncdlion of the articulated bones, or for reftrain- :-:<n£wolI; F 2 ing (^) N^fbit, Ofleogeu.—PhiloC tr».nfa£k. 470. § 6.! OF THE BONES Part I I i ing and confining the motion to fome one fide; fach are ii the crofs and lateral ligaments of the knee, the round one of |: the thigh, &c. j From this account of the ligaments, w'C may conclude, that, catcris paribus, in whatever, articulation the ligaments I are few, long, and weak, the motion, is more free and I quick; but luxations happen frequently; and, on the con- H traty, where the ligaments are numerous, fliort, and ftrong’, f the motion is more confined ; but fuch a joint is lefs ex- t pofed to luxations (/). Whence we may judge how ne- t ceflitry it is to attend to the different ligaments, and the s changes which have been made on them by a luxation, when j it is to be reduced. j Ligaments alfo fupply the place of boties in fevejral cafes i to advantage. Thus tlte parts in the pelvis are more fafe- ly fupported below hy ligaments than tliey could have beeti i by bone.— The ligaments placed in the great holes of the pfia innominata and, between the bones of the fore-arm and leg, afford convenient origin to mufcles.-^Immove- able bones .are firmly coime£led by them ; of which the conjunction of dip os facrum and linnonainatum is an ex- » ample. Tney afford a fockrt for moveable bones to play in, as we fee part of the allragalus does oa the ligament Ifretched from the heel-bone to the fcaphoid. Numerous inconveniences may arife from too long or fnqrr, flroug or weak, lax or rigid ligaments. ■ v:- U' O F T HE C A P. T ! L A G E in Cartil.ages ^m) are folid, fmootb, white, elaftic fub- flances, between the hardnefs of bones and ligaments, and covered with a membrane named perichondrium; which, is of (/) Fabric, ab Aquapend. dc articul. part, utilit.. pars 3. (»;) XsrJ/JO'.IN GENERAL. Chap- L 45 of the fame flru6lnre and ufe to them as the peilolleum is to the bones. Cartilages are compofed of plates, wliich are formed of fibres, difpofed much In the the fame way as thole of bones are; as miglit be reafonably concluded from obferving hones in a cartilaginous ftate before they oflify, and from feeing, on the other hand, fo many, cartilages become bony. This may be Hill further confirmed by the exfoliation which car- tilages are fubjett to as well as bones. The perichondrium of feveral cartilages, for Vxamj^le thofe of the ribs and larynx, has arteries, which can be equally well injetffed with thofe of tlie periofteum; but the velTcls of that membrane in other parts, e. g. the articular cartilages, are fmaller, aud in none of them does injeftion enter deep into the fubftance of the cartilages ; nay, madder, mixed with the food of animals, does not change the colour of cartilages as it does that of bones (rr)J The granulated flefli which rifes from the ends of metacar- pal or metatarfal bones, when the cartilage exfoliates, after a finger'or tde has been taken olF at the firft joint, is very fcnfible; from which the exigence of nerves in cartilages may be inferred. While cartilages are in a natural ftate, it is to be remark- ed, firft. That they fiave no cavity in their middle for mar- row. Secondly, That their outer furface is fofteft, which renders them more flexible. Thirdly, That they do not ap- pear to change their texture near fo much by acids as bones do. And, lalUy, That as tfie fpecific gravity of cartilages is near a tliird Icfs than that of bones; fo the cohefion of their feveral plates is not fo ftrong as in bones : Whence cartilages laid bare in bounds or ulcers, are net only more liable to corrupt, but exfoliate much fooncr than'bones do. Cartilages («) Pbilof. Tranfaa. N 442. art. 8.' N« 443. art. a. N° 457. art. .4. Mtixi. de Vacad, dcs icicnccs, 173P et 1742.—Ddulccf de offiuin calls.46 OF THE BONES PanL ' s CartUages feem to be principally kept from ofTifyingj ei- ther by being fubjedled to alternate motions of flexion and : extenfion, the efFe£ls of which are very cjiflerent from any [ kind of Ample preflure ; or by being conftantly moiftened [o). Thus the cartilages on the articulated ends of the great bones : of the limbs> and the moveable ones placed between the i moving bones in fame articulations, which are obliged to ; fuffer many and difiercnt flexions, and are plentifully ■ moillened, fcarce ever change into bone; while thofe of the ribs and larynx are often ofTified.——The middle angular part of the cartilages of the ribs, wl^ich is conllantly in an alternate ftate of flexion and extenfion, by being moved in i refpiration, is always the laft of becoming bony. In the larynx, the epiglottis, which is oftener bended and more moillened than the other four cartilages, is feldom ofllfied, while the others as feldom efcape it in adults. The cartilages fubfervient to bones are fometimes found on the ends of bones which are joined to no other; but are never wanting on the ends and in the cavities of fuch bones as are defigned for motion (p). Cartilages alfo are interpoftd between fuch other cartilages as cover the heads and cavities of articulated bones; nay, they are alfo placed between immoveable bones. The ufes of cartilages, fo far as they regard bones, are, to allow, by their fmoothnefs, fuch bones as are defigned for motion, to Aide eafily, and without detrition^ while,''by their flexibility, they accommodate themfelves to the feve- ral figures necefl'ary in different motions, and, by their elafticity, they recover their natural pofition and fhape as loon as the preffure is removed. This fpringy force may alio render the motion of the joints more expeditious, and may likewife Icflen the fliocks in running, jumping, 3 (o) Havers Ofleolog. Nov. ni (//■) Cell', dc re medic, lib. 8. cap. I.Chap. I. IN GENERAL. 47 &c.——To thefe cartilages we chiefly owe the fecurity of the moveable articulations; for, without them, the bo- ny fibres would fprout out, and intimately coalefce with the adjoining bone ; whence a true anchylofis mult nccefTa- rily follow; which always happens when the cartilages are eroded by acrid matter, or oflified from want of motion or defeft of (liquor, as is frequently the cafe after wounds of the joints, pviidarthrocace, fcrophula, and fpina ventofa, or from old age, and long Immobility of joints '.q\. Her.ce we may know what the annihilation is, which is faid tp be made of the head of a bone, and of the cavity for lodging it, after an unreduced frafturc I'r). The move- able cartilages interpofed in joints ferve to make the mo- tions both freer and-more fafe than they would othervvife be. Thofe placed on the ends of bones that are not ar- ticulated, as on the fpine of the os ilium, bafe of the fca- pula, &c. ferve to prevent the bony, fibres from growing out too far. Cartilages fometimes ferve as ligaments, ei- ther to faften together bones that are immoveably joined, fuch are the cartilages between the os facrum and ofla i- lium, the ofla pubis, &c. or to conne(ff bones that enjoy manifeft motion, as thofe do which are placed between the bodies of the true vertebrze, &c. --Cartilages very often ^ do the office of bones to greater advantage than thefe laft could; as in the cartilages of the ribs, thofe which fupply . brims to cavities, &c. v t; Too great thicknefs or thinnefs, length or ffiortnef?, hardnefs or fupplenefs, of cartilages/'may ‘therefore caufe great difordcrs in the body. t ' OF (7) Cplumb. dc re anat. Jib. 15.—Deflandes, Hift. dc I'acad. des fciences, —Phil. Tranf. N" ai5.—Ibid. 461. feft. 16. (r) Hildan. dc ichor, et tnelicer. acri Celfi, cap. 5. Ruyfch, Thcf. 8. N® 103.- Saltzman, in Aft. Petropoljt. tom. 3. p. *75,OF THE BONES' Part'I. 48 OF THE S Y N O V I A. The liquor wliich principally ferves to moillen the liga- ments and cartilages of the articulations is fupplicd by glands, which are commonly fituated in the joint, after ^ fuch a manner as to be gently prefled, but not deftroyed by its motion. By thi.l means, when there is the greateft ne- | ceflity for this liquor, that is, when the mod frequent mo- | tions -ar? performed, the greated quantity of it mud be ii feparated. Thefe glands are foft and pappy, but not fri- i able: in fome of the large joints they are of the conglo* ij merate kind, or a great number of fmall glandules are ii wrapt up in one common membrane. Their excretory k du6ls are long, and hang loofe, like fo many fringes, w’ith- in the articulation ; which, by its motion and prefTure, pre- tj vents obdruftions in the body of the gland or its excreto- <j ties, and promotes the return of this liquor, when fit to be ■ take;i up by the abforbent veflTcls, which mud be in the b joints, as well as in the other cavities in the body; and, at the fame time, the prelTure on the excretory dutds hinders a t fupeyfluous unnec«fl'ary fecretion, while the fimbriated dif-d pofifion of thefe excretories does not allow any of the fe-1 creted liquor to be puflied back again by thefe canals to-J wards the glands (r). Very often thefe fountains cf flimy liquor appear onlyji as a net-work of veflels.—Frequently they are almod con-o ccaled by cellul.ir membranes containing the fat—and fome-a limes fmall fimple mucous folliculi may be ften (^). The different joints have thefe organs in different num-J bers and fizes : the conglomerate ones do nor vary much,: efpecially as to fituation, in the fimilar joints of different f bodies; but the others are more uncertain. Upon^ (j) Cowper, Anatom, explicat. tab. 79, lit- E. E. (/) Morgagn. Adverfar. 2. aoimad. 23. ' / »49 Chap. L IN GENERAL. Upon prefling any of thefe glands with the finger, a inucilaginous liquor may be fqueezed out of their excretc- nes, which fomewhat refembles the white of an egg or fe- rum of the blood; but it is,manifeftly fiik to the tafte. It does not coagulate by acids nor by heat, as the ferum does ; but by the latter turns firfl; thinner, and, when evaporated, leaves only a thin fait film. The quantity of this mucilage, conftantly fupplied, mufl be very confiderable, fince we fee what a plentiful trouble- fome difeharge of glary matter follows a wound or ulcer of any joint: of which liquor the mucilage is a confider- able part. The veflels which fupply liquors for making the fecre- tion of this mucilage, and the veins which bring back the blood remaining after the fecretion, may be feen without any preparation; and, after a tolerable injedUon of the ar- teries, the glands are covered with them. In a found ftate, we are not confeious of any fenfibillty in thofe glands: but, in fome cafes which I have feen, when they inflame and fuppurate, the mod racking pain is felt in them; a melancholy, though a fure, proof that they have nervesi Thefe mucilaginous glands are commonly lodged in a cellular fubftance; which is alfo to be obferved in other parts of the bag formed by the ligaments of the ardcula- tion; and which contains a fatty matter, that mull necelfa- rily be attenuated, and forced through the including mem- branes into the, cavity of the joint, by the preffure v.diich it fuffers from the moving bones. If, then, the oil is conveyed from this cellular fubftance; and if the attenuated marrow paflts from the cancelli of the bones by the large pores near their ends, or in their cavities, and fweats through the cartilages there into the articulations; which it may, when afhlted by the conflant VoL, I. G heat50 Part h OF THE BONES heat and a£Hon of the body, more eafily do, than when it'efcapcs through the compafl fubftance of the bones in a fkeletqn: If, I fay, this oil is fent to a joint, and is incor- porated with the mucilage, and with the fine lymph that is conllantly oozirig out at the extremities of the fmall ar- teries dillributed to the ligaments, one of the fittefl. lini- ments imaginable mull be produced; for the mucus di- luted by the lymph contributes greatly to its lubricity, and , the oil preferves it from hardening. How well fuch a mix- ture ferves the purpofe it is defigned for, Boyle («) tells us he experienced in working his air-pump *, for the fucker could be moved with much lefs force after being moiften- ed with water and oil, than when he ufed either of thefe liquors fingly. And I believe every one, at firft view, will allow the diluted mucilage to be much preferable to fimple water. The fynovia (x), as this liquor compofed of oil, mucilage, and lymph, is commonly now called, while in a found ftate, elFeftually preferves all the parts concerned in the ar'Jrulations foft and flexible, and makes them Aide , eafily on each other, by which their mutual detrition and overheating is prevented, in the manner daily pra£tifed in coach and cart wheels by befmearin^ them with greafe and tar. ^ x\fter the liquor of the articulations becomes too thin and unferviceable, by being conllantly pounded and rub- bed between the moving bones, it is reaflumed into the mafs of blood by the abforbent veflels. When the fynovia is not rubbed betwixt the bones, it infpiflates. And fometimcs, when the head of bone has been long out of its cavity, this liquor is faid to fill up the plac'e of the bone, and hinder its redu£lion; or if a joint * continues long unmoved, it is alfo faid to cement the bones, and (w) Phyfico-mechanlc. experim. (k) Mw5«, mucus, axungia.Chap. J. 5* IN GENERAL. and occafion a true anchylofis (y). -If the fynovia be- st comes too acrid, it erodes the cartilages and bones; as fre- quently happens to thofe who labour under the lues ve- nerea, feurvy, fcrpphula, -or fpina ventofa. If this li- quor is feparated in too fmall a quantity, the joint becomes ftilF; and, when with difficulty it is moved, a crackling noife is heard, as people advanced in years frequently ex- perience {z} If the mucilage and lymph are depoGted in too great a quantity, and the abforbent vefTels do not perform their office fufficiently, they may occafion a drop- fy of the joints {a), From this fame caufe alfo the liga- ments are often fo much relaxed, as to make the conjunc- tion of the bones very weak: Thence arife the luxations from an internal caufe, which are eafily reduced, but dif- ficultly cured {b). Frequently, when fuch a fuper- fluous quantity of this liquor is pent up, it becomes very- acrid, and occafions a great train of bad fymptoms j fuch as fwelling and pain of the joints, long finuous ulcers, and fiflulcc, rotten bones, immobility of the joints, mar- cor and atrophia of the whole body, hc£lic fevers, &c. (c). —From a depravity in the blood, or difeafes in the or- gans that furnifh the fynovia of the joints, it may be great- ly changed from its natural (late; it maybe purulent after inflammation, mucous in the white fwellings, gelatinous in the rheumatifm, chalky from the gout, &c.: hence a great variety of diforders in the joints {d). (^) Pare, Chlrurgie, livre 15. chap. 18. et livre 16. chap. 5. ■ (z) Galen, de ufu part. lib. la. cap. a. Fabric, ab Aquapend. de ar- ■ ticul. part, utilitat. pars 5. Bartholin, hift. medic, cent. 3. hill. ir. (a) Hildan. de ichore et melicer. acri Celfi. (4) Hippocrat. de locis in homine, feft. 14. et de articul. (c) Hildan. de ichore et meliceria acti Celfi. (i) See Rciniar, DifTert. de fungo articulor. G 2 CHAP.Part L 52 OF THE SKELETON. CHAP. II. \ Of the S K E L E T O N. ■ THough any dry fubdance may be called Jkeleton, yet, among anatomifts, this word is univerfally under- ftood to fignify the bones of animals conne£l:ed together, after the teguments, mufcles, bowels, glands, nerves, and veflels, are taken away (a). A Ikeleton is faid to be a natural one when the bones are kept together by their own ligaments ; and it is called artificial when the bones arc joined with wire, or any other fubftance which is not part of the creature to which they belonged. Small fubje£ls, and fucli whofe bones are not fully offified, are commonly prepared the firft way; becaufe, were all their parts divided, the niceft artifl could not’ rejoin them, by reafon of their fmallnefs, and of the reparation of their unoflified parts; whereas the bones of large adult ‘ animals are fooneft and moll conveniently cleaned when fingle, and are eafily refliored to and kept in their natural fitiiation. Sometimes the Ikeleton of the fame animal is prepared in both thefe ways; that is, the fmaller bones are kept together by their natural ligaments, and the larger ones are conne£led by wires or fome fuch fubftances. Before we proceed to the divifion and particular defcrip- tion of the Ikeleton, it is to be obferved, that, when the bones are put into their natural fituation, fcarce any one of them is placed in a perpendicular bearing to another; though the fabric compofed of them is fo contrived, that, in an ere£l pofture, a perpendicular line, for their com- mon centre of gravity, falls in the middle of their com- (a) Cadaveris crates. monBONES OF THE HEAD. 53 Chap. II. mon bafe (b). On this account, we can fupport ourfelves as firm as if the axis of all the bones had been a flraight line perpendicular to the horizon; and we have much greater quickncfs, eafe, and ftrength, in feveral of the mod neceflary motions we perform. It is true, indeed, that wherever the bones, on which any part of our body is fuftained, decline from a flraight line, the force required in the mufcles to counterafl the gravity of that part is greater than Was otherwife necefliiry: But then this is ef- fe£lually provided for in fuch places, by the number and ftrength of the mufcles. So long, therefore, as we re- main in the fame pofture, a confiderable number of mufcles muft be in a conftant ftate of contradlion; which we know, both from reafon and experience, muft foon create an un- eafy fcnfation. This we call being weary of one pofure: An inconvenience that we fliould not have had in ftand- ing ereQ, if the bearing of all the bones to each other had been perpendicular; but it is more than compenfated by the advantages above mentioned. The human Ikeleton is generally divided into the Head, the Trunk;, the Superior and the Inferior Extremities. Sect. I. Of the Head. By the Head is meant all that fpheroidal part which is placed above the firft bone of the neck. It there^ fore comprehends the cranimnf and bones of the face. § I. The Cranium, The cranium (r), helmet, or brain-cafe, confifts of fe- veral pieces, which form a vaulted cavity, for lodging and defending (bj Cowper, Anat. of human bodies, explic. of tab. 87. 88. (c) KoK^af, y.uTo^, y.aS'fsr, o-xjpiov, calva, calvaria, ccrcbri galea, theca, et •Ua capitis, tefta capitis, fcutella capitis,OF THE SKELETON. 54 Part I. defending the brain and cerebellum, with their membranes, St vefTels, and nerves. ' The cavity of the cranium is' proportioned to its con- tents. Hence fuch ^ variety of its fize is obfervcd in dif- ferent fubje£ls; and hence it is neither fo broad nor fo deep at its fore-part, in which the anterior lobes of the brain are lodged, ds' it is behind, where the large pofterior lobes of the brain, and the whole cerebellum, are con- tained. The roundifli figure of the Ikull, which makes It more capacious, and better able to defend its contents from ex- ternal injuries, is chiefly owing to the equal prelTure of thefe contained parts as they grow and increafe before it is entirely offified. It is to be obferved, however, that the fides of the cranium are deprefled below a fpherical furface by the firong temporal mufcles, whofe aftion hin- ders here the uniform protrufion of the bones, which is more equally performed in other parts where no fuch large mufcles are. In children whofe mufcles have not a£led much, and confequently have not had'great efleds on the bones, this depreffion is not fo remarkable; and there- fore their heads are much rounder than in adults. Thefe natural caufes, differently difpofed in different people, pro- duce a gre'at variety in the fhapes of fkulls, which is flill in- creafed by the different management of the heads of chil- dren when very young: So that one may know a Turk’s fkull by its globular figure, a German’s by its breadth and flatnefs of the occiput, Dutch and Englifli by their oblong fhapes, See. [d). Two advantages are reaped from this flatnefs of the Tides of the cranium, viz. the enlargement of our fphere of vifion, and more advantageous fituation of our ears for receiving a greater quantity of found, and for being lefs expofed to injuries. I (dj Vcfal. lib. I. c. 5. The5S aap.II. BONES OF THE HEAD. The external furface of the upper part of the cranium is very fmooth and equal, being only covered -with the pe- rlofteum (common to all the bones, but in the fkull diftin- guilhed by the name of pericranium)^ the thin frontal and occipital mufcles, their tendinous aponeurofis, and with the common teguments of the body; while the external furface of its lower part has numerous rifings, depreflions> and holes, which afford convenient origin and infertion to the mufcles that are conne6led to it, and allow fafe palfage for the veffels and nerves that run through anA near it. , The Internal furface of the upper part of the fkull Is commonly fmooth, except where the veffels of the dura mater have made furrows in it, while the bones were foft. - ■ Surgeons fhould be cautious when they trepan here, left in fawing or raifing the bone where fuch furrows are, they wound thefe veffels. In the upper part of the in- ternal furface of feveraL fkulls, there are likewife pics of different magnitudes and figures, which feem to be formed by fome parts of the brain being more luxuriant and pro- < minent than others. In thefe pits, the fkull is fo much thinner than any where elfe, that it is often rendered dia- phanous, the two tables being clofely compared without a diploe; the want of which is fupplied by veffels going from the dura matter into a great many fmall holes ob- fervable in the pits. Thefe veffels are larger, and much more confpicuous than any others that are fent from the dura mater to the fkull; as evidently appears from the . drops of blood they pour out, when the fkull Is raifed from the dura mater in a recent fubjeft; and therefore they may furnifh a fufficient quantity of liquors neceffary to prevent the brittlenefs of this thin part. The knowledge of thefe pits fhould teach furgeons to faw cautioufly and flow- ly through the external table of the fkull, when they are I performingPairt t* OF THE SKELETON. perfAntilng the operation of the trepan; fince, in a patient Vvhofe cranium has thefc pits, the dura mater and brain may be injured, before .the inftrument has pierced near tlie ordinary thicknefs of a table of the fkull. The internal bafe of the fkull is extremely unequal, for lodging the fe- veral.parts and appendices of the brain and cerebellum, and allowing paflage and defence to the velTels and nerves that go into or come out from thefe parts. The bones of the cranium are compofed of two tables* and intermediate cancelli, commonly called their diploe [e). The external table is thickeft; the inner, from its thinnefs and confequent brittlenefs, has got the name of vitrea. Whence we may fee the reafon of thofe mifehievous con- fequences which fo often attend a colleiSlIon of matter in the diploe, either from an external ot internal caufe, be- fore any fign of fuch a colledlion appears in the teguments which cover that part of the fkull where is lodged [f). The diploe has nearly the fame texture and ufes in the fkull with the cancelli in other bones. The diploe of feveral old fubjefts Is fo obliterated, that fcarce any veflige of It can be feen ; neither is it obfervable in fome of the hard craggy bones at the bafe of the fkull. Hence an ufeful caution to furgeons who trufl to the bleeding, want of refiflance, and change of found, as cer- tain marks, in the operation of the trepan, that their in- ftrument has fawed through the firft table, and reached the diploe (g). In other people, the diploe becomes of a monftrous thicknefs, while the tables of the fkull are thin- ner than paper. The cranium confifts of eight bones, fix of which are faid to be proper, and the other two are reckoned com- mon (e) MedituHum, commilTura. (f) Boneti Sepulcliret. anat. lib. I. § I. obf. 96.—103. (g) Bartholia. Anat. reform, lib. 4. cap. 4.BONES OF THE HEAD. Chap. II. 57 mon to it and to the face.—The fix proper are the os fron- tisj two ojfa parietalia, two offa teniporuiriy and the os oceipi- pitis.—The common are the os ethmoides znA fphenoides. The os frontts forms the whole fore-part of the vault; the two ojfa parietaWa form the upper and middle part of it; the ojfa tesnporum compofe the lower part of the fides; the os occipitis makes the whole hinder part, and fome of the bafe ; the os ethmoides is placed in the fore-part of the bafe, and the os fphenoides in the middle of it. THE SUTURE Si The above bones are joined to each other by five fu- tures ; the names of which are the coronal^ lambdoidaf fa~ gittaly and two fquamous. The coronal (/;) future is extended over the head, from within about an inch of the external canthus of one eye, to the like diftance from the other; which being near the place where the ancients wore their vittae, coronse, or gar- lands, this future has thence got its name.—Though the indentations of this future are confpicuoiis in its upper part, yet an inch or more of its end on each fide has none, but is fquamous and fmooth. The lambdeidal (i) future begins fome way below, and farther back than the vertex or crown of the head, whence its two legs are ftretched obliquely downwards and to each fide in form of Greek letter and are now generally faid to extend themfelves to the bafe of the fkull: but formerly anatomifts (k) reckoned the proper lambdoidal future to ter- minate at the fquamous futures ; and what is extended at an angle down from tliat on each fide, where,the Indenta- VoL. I H tion'S (b) Xrcfavaia, Arcualfs, puppis. (i) Laudz, prorz, hypl'yloides. (k) Vcfal. Anat. lib. i. cap. i. '58 Parf I. OF THE SKELETON. tions are lefs confpicuous than in the upper part of the future, they called nditani 'ntum futHra lambdoidh (/). This future is fometimes very irregular, being made up of a great many fmall futures, which furround fo many little bones that are generally larger and n'orc confpicuous on the external furface of the flcull than internally. Thefe bones are, commonly called triquetra or Wormiana : but fome other name ought to be given them, for they are not al- ways of a triangular figure, and older anatomills (w) than Olaus Wormius («) liave deferibed them.—The fpecific virtue which thefe bones were once thought to have in the cure of the epilepfy (0), is not aferibed to them now ; and anatomills generally agree, that thqir formation is owing to a greater than ordinary number of points of offification in the fl<hill, or to the ordinary bones of the cranium not extending their offification far enough or foon enough; in which cafe, the uVioifificd interllice between fuch bones begins a feparate olfification in one or more points; from which the offification is extended to form aS. many dilHncl bones as there were points, that are indented into the large ordinary bones, and into each other. Probably thofe children who have a large opening in this place at their birth, will have the largcfl olfa triquetra. To confirm this account of the formation or thefe little bones, we may remark, that fuch bones are fometime^ feen in other futures, as well as in the lambdoidal (/>) ; and .they I Sre (l) Lambdoides liarmonialis, lambdoides inferior, occipitis corona. ( n>j Eviftach. Otnum examen. Baulun. Thcat. Anat. lib. 3-cap. 5.— Paaw in Ilippocrat. dc vulner. capit. p. JQ. (n) Mufteum, lib. 3. c. 26. (0) Bauhin. et Paaw ibid. Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib. 4.. c. 5.—— Hildan. Epiftol. 65. (^) Sec examples in Vefal. lib- t. cap. 6. fig. 4. Paaw in Hipi)o- crat. de cap. vulu. rBarthoIin. Hill. Anat. cent. i. Hift. 5I. Ruyfeh. Muf. Anat.——Sue Trad, d’ofleolog. p.47.Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 59 are fometimes in one table of the fkull, 4ind not in the other (y). The fagittal future (r) is placed longitudinally in the middle of the upper part of the fkull, and commonly ter- minates at the middle of .the coronal and of the lambdoi- dal futures i between which it is faicl to be placed, as an arrow is between the Itring and the bow.—Howpver, this future is frequently continued through the middle of the 03 frontis down to the root of the nofe ; which, fome (r) fay, happens oftener in women than men \ but others (/) al- ledge, that it is to be met with more frequently in male fkulls than in female : Among the Ikulls which I have ften thus divided, the fem.aie are the moll numerous. Several («) have dqjineated and deferibed the fagittal future, fome- , times dividing the occipital bone, as far down as the great hole through which the medulla fpinalis paflcs. This I nev.er faw. In fome old fculls that are in my pofleffion, there is fcarce a veftige of any of the three futures which I have now deferibed. In other heads, one or two of the futures only difappear; but I never could difeover any reafon for thinking them difpofed in fuch diiTcrent manners in fkulls pf.different flrapes, as fome ancients alledge they are (.v). The fquamous agglutinations^ or falfe futures (y), are , H 2 one (j) Hunald in Mem. de I’acad. desfeienccs, I7J0. (r)'PaWof/Jiif, Eyifiuyvoo-a, Inflar vij-gsE, nervalis, iijftar teli, in- ftar veru, fecundum capitis longitudinem prorepens, conjungens, coluinna- lis, refta, arcuaiis. (x) Riolan. Commcnt.de oflib. cap, 8. (f) Vefal. lib. l. cap. 6. et in epitome. (u) Vefal. lib. i- cap. 5. fig. 3. 4. et in text. cap. 6. —Paaw in Ceif. de re medic, cap. i.-—1—Uaurent. Hifi. Anat. lib. a cap. ifi. (sc) Hippocrat. de Tulnei'. capitis, § i. Galen, de oflib. et de ufii part. lib. 9. cap. 17. (y) AiTiJoftXi), r/ioo-xoXxw^aTa, xpcrcejnxmi. Tcmpofalcs, cofticalcs, meudofa:; harmonialis, commiflurs in ungiiem.OF THE SKELETON. 6o Part I. one on each fide, a little above the ear, of a femicircular figure, formed by the overlapping (like.one fcalc upon an- other) of the upper part of the temporal bones on the lower part of the parietal, where,, in both bones, there are a great many fmall rifings and furrows, which are indent- ed into each other; though thefe inequalities do not ap- pear till the bones are feparated. In fome fkulls, indeed, the indentations here are as confpicuous externally as in other futures (z) ; ^nd what is commonly called the pofte- rior part of this fquamous future, always has the evident fertated form ; and therefore is reckoned by fome {o) a d‘i(lin£l, future, under the name of addi/ametitum pojierius future fquaniofa —I have feen two fquamous futures on the fame templ^, with a femicircular piece pf bone between them {b}. We ought here to remark, tliat the true fquamous fort of future is not confined to the conjundiion of the tempo- ral and parietal bones, but is made ufe of to join all the edges of the bones on which each temporal mufclc is pla- ced {c) •. For the two parts of the fphenoidal future which ' are continued from the anterior end of the common fqua- mous future juft now deferibed, of which one runs per- pendicularly downwards, and the other horizontally for- wards, aird -alfo the lower part of the coronal future alrea- dy taken notice of; may, all be. juftly faid to pertain tp the fquamous future. The manner how, I imagine, this fort of future is formed at thefe places is, that, by the ac- tion of the ftrong temporal mufcles on one fide, and by tlie preffure of. the, braj.u on the other, the bones are made ‘■o Cz) Coli>iiib. de rc anat. lib. I. cap. 4.^—Dionis, Anat. 3. dcinonftrat. ijcs os. , j , *d ' /"ay Albin. de offib. § 54. , ^ ' (bj Sue Trad, d’oflcol. p. 48. , '‘ijVtidX. Anat. lib. 1. cjp. 6.—Winflow, Mcffl.de 1‘acad. desfcicnces, ^72q.BONES OF THE HEAD. 6i Chap. II. fo'thin, that their edges oppofed to each other are not fuf- ficiently thick to flop the extenfion of their fibres in length, and thus to caufe the common ferrated appearance of fu- tures explained in p. 36. ; but the narrow edge of the one bone Aides over the other. The fquamous form is alfo more convenient here ; becaufe fuch thin edges of bones, when accurately applied one to another, have fcarce any rough furface, to obftru£l or hurt the mufclfe in its con- traction; which is ftill further provided for, by the man- ner of laying thefe edges on each other; for, in viewing their outfide, we fee the temporal bone^ covering the fplle- noida! and parietal, and this lall fupporting the fphenoidal, while both mount on the frontal ; From which difpofition. it is evident, that, while the temporal mufcle is contract- ing, which is the only time it prefles ftrongly in its motion on the bones, its. fibres Aide eafily over the external edges. Another advantage of this AruCtufe is, that the whole part is made ftronger by the bones thus fupporting each other. ‘‘The bones of the Acull are joined to thofe of the face, by fcliindylefiS and futures.—The fchindylefis is in the partir tion of the nofe.The futures faid to be common to the cfanlum and face are fi\’'e; viz. the ethmoidal, fphenoidal, tranfverfe, and two' zygomatic.—^—Parts, however, of thefe futures are only at the junCtion of thC bones of the fkull. ethmoidal and fpkenoidal futiires furround the bones of thefe names; and in fome places help to make up other futures, particularly the yy/rfirmoz/x afid tratifverfc ; and in dther parts there is but one future common to thefe two bones. The iranfvsrfe future is extended quite crofs the face, from the external canthus of one orbit to the fame place of the other, by fmking from the cantlius down the outfide of ?Part I. 62 OF THE SKELETON. the orbit to its bottom j -then naoutiting upon its inficle, it is continued by the root of the nofe down the internal part of the other orbit, and rifes up again on its outfide to the other canthus. It may be Iiere remarked, that there are fome interruptions of this future in the courfe 1 have,de- feribed ; for the bones are not every where contiguous, but are fepavated, to leave holes and apertures, as Ihall be men- tioned hereafter. The futures are one on each fide, being fhort and flanting from above obliquely downwards and back- wards, to join a procefs of the cheek bone to one of the temporal bones, which advance towards the face ; fo that the two procelles thus united, form a. fort of bridge or ju- gum, under which .the temporal mufcle pafles, on which account the procefl'es, and future joining them, have been called zygomatic. It mull be obferved, that the Indentations of the futures are not fo .ftrongly marked on the inlide as on the outfide of the cranium ; and fometimes the bones feem to be join- ed by a ftraight line : Nay, in fome Ikulls, the internal fu- face is found entire, while, the futures are ixianifefl; with- out; which may poflibly be owing to the lefs extent of thei' concave than of the convex furface of the cranium, where- by the fibres of the internal fide would be llretched far- ther out at the edges of the bones than the. exterior ones, if they were not refilled. The refinances are, the fibres of the oppofite bone, the parts within the dkiiil, ami the diploe,: the lall of which bein^ the weakell, the moft atl- vanced fibres or ferrae run into it, and leave the contigu- > OU3 edges equal, and more ready to unite; wlitreas the ferrae of tile external table have fpace enough for tiidr ad- mifiion between the .fibres of the oppofite bone, and therefore remain of the indented form, and are lefs liable to the con- cretion whereby the futures are obliterated {d).—By this mechanifm, (d) Hunall. Memoirss de I’acad dcs fciecccs, 1730. f^3 Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. mechanlfm, there is no rifk of the fliarp points of the bones growing inwards* fince the external itrrx of each of the conjoined bones' red upon the internal fmooth-etiged table of the other ; and external forces applietl to thefe parts are ftrongly refifted, becaufoi the futures cannot yield, unlefs the ferrated edges of the one bone, and the plain internal plate of the other, are broken (e). The advantages of the futures of the cranium are,thefe ; i. That this capfula is more eafily formed and extended into-a fpherical figure, than if it had been one continued bone. 2. That the bones which are at fome diftance from each other at birth, might then yield, and allow to the head a ' change of fltape, accommodated to the paflage it is engaged in. Whence, in difficult parturition, the bones of the cranium, inftead of being only brought into contaft, are fometimes made to mount one upon the other. 3. It is alledged, that, through the futures there is a tran- fpiration of fteams from the brain, whicji was the old doc- trine ; or fome communication of the velTels without, and of thofe within the flcull, ilarger here than in any other part of 'ithe cranium, according to fome moderns; and therefore cucuphae, fomentations, cataplafms, cephalic plafters, blitters, are applied^i and iffues are eroded or cut in the head, at thofe places where the futures are longctt in forming, and where the coiine£lion of the bones is after- wards loofett, for the eyre of a phrenitis, mania, invete- rate headach, epilepfy, apoplexy^ and other difeafes of the head, "^flie favourers of-the doctrine jof ^tranfpiration, or communication of velTels at the futures, endeavour to fup- port It by obfervations of perfons fubjecil to headachs which caulfed death, ^from the futures being too clofcly united (f)i 4. jThat .the durai mater may be more firmly ifufpendeU by ‘/j jUf.if <TjI-ji, I:.. I'T-rol ii jt'i'dini ■ ttdi its Mcmpircs dc i’ncacl. des feiences, T72QJ j vd' (// Columb. <le re. anat. lib. i. cap. 5. Verduc. NouvcUc Oflco- logie, chap. 14. Dionis, Anat. 3. dcmonfl. des os.Parti. 64 OF THE SKELETON. its procefles, '^hich infinuate themfelves into this conjunc- tion of the bones; for doing this equally, and where the greateft nccefhty of adhcfion is, the futures are difpofed at nearly equal diftances; and the larger refervoirs of blood, the fmufes, are under or near them. 5. That fractures might be prevented from reaching fo far as they would in a continued bony fubftance. 6. That the connexion at 'the futures being capable of yielding, the bones might be al- lowed to feparate ; which has given great relief to patients from the violent fymptoms which they had before this fe- paration happened [g). And it feems reafonable to be- lieve, that the opening of the futures was of great benefit to feveral others who were rather thought to have been liurt by it (/j) : for the confequences of fuch a force acting upon the brain, as was capable of thrulling the bones afun- der, mult have been fatal, unlefs it had been thus yielded to. Having gone through the general ftrufture of the crani- um, I now proceed to examine each bone of which that brain-cafe confifts, in the order in which I firft named them. OS FRONTIS. The os frontis {i) has its name from its being the only bone of that part of the face we call the forehead, though it reaches a good deal farther. It has fome referablance in fliape to the fhell of the concha bivalvis, commonly called the ccckle: for the greateft part of it is convex externally, and concave internally, with a ferrated circular edge ; while the {gj Ephemerid. Germanic, dec. I. ann. 4. et j.obfery. 33. fljJ Ephemerid. Germ. dec. 3. ann. 9. obf. 330. Ibid. cent. 10. obf. 31. —Vaiider Linden Medicin. phyf. cap. 8. art. 4 $ i6. Hildan. Ob- ferr. cent. i. obf. 1. cent. 2. obf. 7.—Baiihin Theat. Anat. lib. 3. cap. 6. —Pcchlin. Obferv. lib. 3. obf. 39. (i) Uztatti, Bftj'f'.x, Coronale, inverccunduDi, puppis, fenfus coramuniSj (iDoioitis.Chap. rr. BONES OF THE HEAD. 65 the fmaller part has procefTes, and depreflions, which make it of an irregular figure. The external furface of the os frontis is fmooth at its up- per convex part; but feveral procetTes and cavities are ob- fervable below; for at each angle of each orbit, the bone juts out to form four procefles, two internal, and as many cxtetnal; which, from this fituation, may well enough be named angular. Between the internal and external angu- lar procefies on each fide, an arched ridge is extended, on which the eye-brows are placed. Very little above the internal end of each of thefe fuperciliary ridges a protuhe- rance may be remarked, in mofl; ficulls, where there are large cavities, called finuft’s, within the bone; of which hereafter.—Between the internal angular procefies a fmall procefs rifes, which forms a fmall part of the nofe, and thence is named nafah Some obferve a protuberant part on the edge of the bone behind each external angular 'procefs, which they call temporal procefles j but thefe arc inconfiderable. From the unejer part of the fupetci- liary ridges, the frontal bone runs a great way backwards; thefe parts may juftly enough be called orbitar procefles, which, contrary to the reft of this bone, are concave externally, for receiving the globes of the eyes, with their mufcles, fat, &c. In each of the orbitar procefies, behind the middle of the fuperciliary ridges, a cOiifiderablc finuofity is obferved, where the glandula innominata Galeni, or lacrymalis, is lodged. Behind each internal angular procefs, a fmall pit may be remarked, where the cartilaginous pully of the nufculus cbliquus major of the eye is fixed.—Between the two orbitar procefles, there Is a large dlfcontinuation of the bone, in which the cribriform part of the 03 ethmoides is Incafed.——The frontal bone has frequently little ca- verns formed in it where it is joined to the ethmoid bone. ^ I. ■ I —BehindOF THE SKELETON. Part I, 66 —Behind each external angular procefs, the furface of the frontal bone is confiderably depreflVd where part of the tem- poral mufcle is placed. The foramina^ or holes, obfervable on the external fur- face of the frontal bone, are three in each fide. One in each fuperciliary ridge, a little removed from its middle tow-ards the nofe? through which a twig of the ophthal- mic branch of the fifth pair of nerves paffes out of the or- bit, with a fmall artery from the internal carotid, to be aliftributed to the teguments and mufcles of the forehead. -—Thefe veiTels, in fome ilculls, make furrows in the os fronds, efpecially in the bones of children, as has alfo been obferved of another confiderable vefiTel of this bone near its middle and therefore we ought to beware of tfanf- verfe incifions on either fide of the os frontis, which might either open thefe vtflels, or hurt the nerves, while they are yet in part within the bone: for when veflels are thus wounded, it is difficult to ftop the hsemorrhagy, becaufe the adhefion of a part of the artery to the bone hinders its contraction, and confequently ftyptics can have little efFecf j the fides of the furrow keep off compreffing fubftances* from the artery; and we would wifn to fhun cauteries or cfcharotics, becaufe they make the bone carious; and nerves, wdien thus hurt, fometimes produce violent fymp- toms.—^—But to return to the fuperciliary foramina, we mud remark, that often, inftead of a hole, a notch only is to be feen : nay, in fome flculls, fcarce a veftige even of this is left; in others, both hole and notch are obfervable, when the nerve and artery run feparately. Frequently a hole is found on 'one fide, and a notch on the other; at other times we fee two holes, or there is a common hole without, and two MiftinCt entries internally. The reafon of this variety of a hole, notch, depreflion, or fmootlihefs. (/•) Ruyfeh. Muf. Anat. theca D, repofit. 4. 3.Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 67 in the fuperciliary ridge, is the different length and ten- lion of the nerves and veffcls; the fliorter they are, the more they are funk into die bone as it grows.—Near the middle of the infide of each orbit, hard by or in the tranf- verfe future, there is a fmall hole for the paffage of the nafal twig of the firft branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and of a branch of the ophthalmic artery. This hole is fometimes entirely formed in the os ifrontis; in other Ikulls, the fides of it are compofed of this lafl bone and of the os planum. It is commonly known by the name of trbitarium internumy though anterius fliould be added, be- caufe of the next, which is commonly omitted.—This, which may be called orbiiarium internum pojierius^ is fuch another as the former j only fmaller, and about an inch deeper in the orbit; Through it a fmall branch of the ocu- lar artery paffes to the nofe.—Befides thefe fix, there are a great number of fmall hole's obfervable on the outer fur- face of this bone, particularly in tjie two protuberances ;^ove the eye-brows. Moft of them penetrate no further than the finufes, or than the diploe if the finufes are want., ing; though fometimes I have feen this bone fo perforated by a vaft number of thefe fmall holes, that, placed between the eye and a clear light, it appeared like a fieve. In the orbit of the generality of (keletons, we may obferve one, two, or more holes, which allow a paffage to a hog’s briftle through the Ikull. The place, fize, and number of thefe, are however uncertain; they generally ferve for the tranf- miflion of fmall arteries or nerves. The internal furface of the os fiontis is concave, except at the orbitar procelTes, which are convex, to fupport the anterior „lpl)es of the brain. This furface is not fo fmooth as the external; for the larger branches of the arteries of the dur^ mater'make fome furrows in its fidcs and baeje parts. The finuofities from the luxuriant rifings of the I ^6S OF THE SKELETON. Part I. (l) Alorgagn. Adverfcr. 6. auimad. 31. brainy mentioned when d#fcribing the general ft'rufture of ^he cranium, are often very obfervable on its upper part; and its lower and fore parts are marked witl^ the contortions of the anterior lobes of the brain. Through themlddle of this internal furface, where always in children, and foitie- times in old people, the bone is divided, either a ridge ftands out, to which the upper edge of the falx is faftened, or a furrow runs, in which the upper fide of the fuperior longir tudinal finus is lodged; on both thqfe accounts, chirurgical authors juftly forbid the application of the trepan here.— The reafon of this difference in flcnlls is alledged by fomc authors to be this. That in thin fkulls the ridge ftrengthens the bones, and in thick ones there is no occafion for it. To this way of accounting for the phenomenon, it may juftly be ohje'dded, that, generally, very thick fkulls have a large fpine here, and frequently thin oues have only a furrow. Perhaps this variety may be owing to the different times of complete offification of thofe parts in different fubjeGs; for if the two fides of this bone meet before they arrive at their utmoft ex- tent of growth, they unite very firmly, and all their fibres endeaveur to ftretch therhfelves out where there L the leaft refiftance, that is, between the. hemifpheres of the brain. To fupport this reafoning, we may remark, that thofe adults whofe frontal bone Is divided by the fagittal future, never have a ridge in this place. Iirfmediately at the root of this ridge of furrow, there is* a fmall hole, which fomet'imes pierces through the firft table, and, in other fkulls, opens into tht fuperior finus of die ethmoid bone within th'b nofe. In it a little procefs of the falx is lodged; atlda ftuall artery, and forndtimes a TC-in, runs (/^; 'and the fuperior longitudinal finus begins here... This hole, however, is often not entirely proper to the os frontis: for, in feveral fkulls, the lower part is formedChap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 6^ (0) Fall^. Expofit. de ollib. cap. 13. formed in the upper part of the bafe of the crilla galli, wlrich is a procefs of the ethmoid bone (;?/). The os frontis is compofed of two tables^ and an Inter- mediate diploe, as the other bones of the cranium are: It is of a mean thicknefs between the os occipitis and the parietal bones; and is nearly equally denfe throughout, except at the orbitar procefles, where, by the adlion of- the eye on one fide, and prelTure of the lobes of the brain on the other, it is made extremely thin and diaphanous, and the meditullium is entirely obliterated. In this place there is fo weak a defence for the brain, that fencers efteem a pufli in the eye mortal (/?). The diploe is alfo cxhaufted in chat part above t^e eye- brows, where the two tables of the bone feparate, by the external being protruded outwards, tp form two large ca- vities, called Jitius frontales. Thefe are divided by a middle perpendicular -bony partition. Their capaci- ties in the the fame fubjecl are feldom equal; in fome the right, in others the left, is largeft. And in different bones their fize is as inconftant: nay, I have examined fome where they were entirely wanting; which oftener happens in fuch as have a flat forehead, and whofe f.igittal future is continued down to the nofe, than in others (o). In fome fliulls, befides the large perpendicular feptum, fe- veral bony pillars, or fhort partitions, are found in each Cnus: in others thefe are wanting. For the mofi; part theis entire; at other times it is difeontinued, and the two ftntifes communicate. When the finufes are feen in fuch flculls as have the frontal bone divided by the fa- gittal future, the partition dividing thefe ^..cavities is evident- ly compofed of. two plates, which eafily feparate.—Each finus (tt) IngrafT. Comment, in Gaien. dc offib. cap. i. comment. 8. (/>) Ruyfdi. Obferv. Anat.-chir. obferv. 54. Dicnierbroek, Anat. lib. 3. cap. 10. Bonet. Sepulch. Anat, lib. 4. § 3. obferv. 17.7« OF THE SKELETON. Part I, fmus commonly opens by a roundilh fmall hole, at the inner and lower part of the internal angular procefles, into a Cnus formed in the nofe, at the upper and back part of the os un- guis ; near to which tliere are alfo’ fame other fmall finufct of tjjis bone (/>), thg greater part of which open feparately near the feptum narium, and often terminate in the fame common canal with the large ones. » In a natural and found ftate, thefe cavities are of confi- derable advantage; for the organ of fmelling being thus enlarged, the effluvia of odorous bodies more difficultly cfcape it; and their impreffions being more numeraus, arc therefore ftronger, and affedl the organ more. That odo- rous particles may be applied to the membrane of the C- nufes, is evident from the pain felt in this part of the fore- head, when jthe effluvia of volative fpirits, or of ftrong aromatics, are drawn up into the nofe by a quick infpira- tion. Thefe, and the other cavities which open into the nofe, increafe the found of our voice, and render it more melodious, by ferving as fo many vaults to refound the notes. Hence people labouring under a coryza, or ftpp- page of the nofe from any other caufe, when they are by the vulgar, though falfely, faid to fpeak through the nofe, have fuch a difagreeable harfh voice. The liquor fepa- xated in the membrane of thefe finuf^ runs down upon the membrane of the nofe to keep it moifl. From the defeription . of thefe fmufes, it is evident, how ufelefs, nay, how permcipus, it muft be to apply a tre-. pan on this purt ,ojE,;the fkulf : for this inflrument, inftead of piercing into the,, cavity of the cranium, would reach no further than the finufesj or, if the inner table was per- forated, any extravafated blood that happened to be with- in the fkull, would pot be difeharged outwardly, but :Oj£n/‘ nv,,, ' would fall into the finufes, and there llagnate, corrupt, and ftimuhtc _ Isnr. [f,) Cowper in Drake's AhtfirOlioTog. book 3. chap. lo. V7* Chap. II BONES OFT HE HEAD. ftimulate the fenfihle membranes j from which alfo there would be fuch a conftant flow of glairy mucus, as would retard, if not hinder a cure, and Would make the fore de- generate into an incurable fiftula. Befides, as it would be altnoft impoflible in this cafe to prevent the air, pafling through the nofe, from having conftant accefs to the dura mater or brain; fuch a corruption would be brought on thefe parts as would be attended with great danger. Farther, in refpiration, the air rulhing violently into thefe cavities of the os fronds, and pafling through tlie external orifice, whenever it was not well covered and defended, would not only prevent the clofing up of the external orifice, but might otherwife bring on bad confequences (y).—^The mem- brane lining thefe finufes is fo fenfible, that inflammations of it muft create violent torture (r); ‘ and worms, or other infefts crawling there, muft give great' uneafinefs (r). The upper circular part of the os frontis is joined to the oflTa parietalia, from one temple to the other, by the co- ronal future. From the termination of the coronal future to the external angular procelTes, this bone is connefted to the fphenoid by the fphenoidal future. At the external canthi of the eyes, its angular procefles are joined by the tranfverfe future to the ofla malarum, to which it adheres one-third down the outfide of the orbits; whence to the bottom of thefe cavities, and a little upon their internal fides, thefe orbitar prbcefTes are connefted to the fphenoi- dal bone by that fame future.' -In fome few flculls, how- ever, a difcontinuation of thefe two bones appears at the upper part of the long flit, near the bottom of the orbit. —On the infide of each orbit, the drbitar procefs is in- dented (y) Paaw de ofllbus, parfe i. cap. 7, ^Palfyne Anatom, cliir. traite 4. chap. 15.. ' Nbuvelle Oft'eolbgie, partie 2. chap. 3. (r) Fernel Pathalog. lib. 5. cap. 7. Saltzman Decur. obferv. 10. (j) Fernel Patholog. lib. 5. cap 7.——Bartholin. BpUlol. Medic, cent. %, epift. 74.—Hifl.de I’acad. des fcicaccs, 1708 & 1733,7Z OF THE SKELETON. Part I. dented between the cribrifor.-n part of tlie ethmpid bone and the os planum and unguis—The tranfverfe future af- terwards joins the frontal bone to the fuperior nafal pro- cefTes of the ofla maxillarla fuperiora, and to the nafal bones. And, laftly, its nafal procefs is conne£led to the nafal lamella of the ethmoid bone. The frontal bone ferves to defend and fupport the ante- rior lobes of the brain. It forms a confiderable part of the cavities that contain the globes of the eyes, helps to make up the feptum narium, organ of fmelling, &e. From the defcription of the feveral parts, the other ufes of this bone are evident. In a ripe child, the frontal bone is divided through the middle 5 the fuperciliary holes are not formed ; oftezi a fmall round piece of each orbltar procefs, behind the fuper- ciliary ridge, is not oirified ; and there is no finus to be feeii tt’itiiin its fubftance. OSSA P A R I E T A L I A. Each of the two Ofla Parietal i^ (r), or bones ferving as walls to the encephalon, is an Irregular fquare ; its up- per and fore fides being longer than the one behind or be- low. The inferior fide is a concave arch ; the middle part receiving the upper round part of the temporal bone. The angle formed by this upper fide and the fore one, is fa extended, as to have the appearance of a procefs. Tlie external furface pf each os parietale is convex. Upon it, fornewhat below the middle height of the bone, there is a tranfverfe arched ridge, generally of a whiter colour than any other part of the bone ; from which in bones tliat have flrong prints of mufcles, we fee a great many conver- ging furrows, like fo many radii drawn from a circumfe- rence (<) Sopt/fnc, Paiia fyncipitls, verticisj arcu3Ua,.nerrali», cogitation is, ra.< tionis, bregnaatis, njadefaftioues.Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 73 rence towards a centre. From tins ridge of each bone the temporal mufcle rifcs: and, by the prclTure of its fi' res, occafions the furrows juft now mentioned.—B low thefe we obferve, near the femicircular edges, a great many ri- fings and depreflions, which are joined to like inequalitie.s on the infide of the temporal bone, and form the fqua- nious future. The temporal bone may therefore feive here as a buttrefs, to prevent the lower fide of the parietal from ftarting outwards when its upper part is prelTed or ftruck («). Near the upper fidcs of thefe bones, towards the hind part, is a fmall hole in each, through which a vein pafles' from the teguments of the head to the longitudinal finus. Sometimes I have fecn a branch of the temporal artery pafs through this hole, to be diftributed to the upper part of the falx, and to the dura mater at its fides, where it had frequent anaftomofes with the branches of the arteries de- rived from the external carotids, which commonly have the name of the arteries of the dura mattefj and with the branches of the internal carotids which go to the falx.— In feveral ikulls, one of the ofla parietalia has not this hole: In others, there are two in one bone; and in fome, not one in either. Mod frequently this hole is through both tables; at other times the external table only is per- forated.—The knowledge of the courfe of thefe veflels may be of ufc to furgeons wdien they make any incifion near this part of the head ; left, if the veflels are raihly cut near the hole, they fhtink within the fubtfance of the bone, and fp caufe an obrtinatc haemorrhagy, which neither liga- tures nor medicines can flop. On the inner concave fiuface of the parietal bones, we fee a great many deep furrows, difpofed fomewftut like the branches of trees; the furrows arc largeft and deepeft aC VoL. I. K the- in) Hiiiuafd. in Mem. de I’acad . des fcicncesV74 OF THE SKELETON. Part I. the lower edge of each bs parietale, efpecia,lly near its an- terior angle, where a complete canal is fomeiimes formed. They afterwards divide into fmall furrows, in their pro- grefs upwards. -In fome (kulls a large furrow begins at the hole near the upper edge, and divides into branch- es, which join with thofe ^that come upwards; fhewing the communications of the upper and lower veflels of tho dura mater. In thefe furrows we frequently fee pafi'a- ges into the diploe ,*iand fometimes I have obferved canals going off, wdiich allowed a fmall probe to pafs a few inches into the lx>ny fubftance. Some (x) authors tell us, that they have obferved thefe canals piercing the bone towards the oc- ciput.—On the infide of the upper edge of the ofla parieta- lia, there is a large rinuolity, frequently larger in the bone of one fide than of the otlier, v'here the upper part of the falx is faflened, and the fuperior longitudinal films is lotl- ged—Part of the lateral finufcs generally makes a depref- fion near the angle, formed by the lower and pofterior fides of thefe bones; and the pits made by the prominent parts of the brain are to be feen in no part of the Ikull more frequent or more confiderable, than in the internal furface of thefe bones. ^ j The ofla parietalia are the moll equal and fmooth,. and .are among the thinnefh bones of the cranium ; but tliey enjoy the general ftruclures of two tables and diploe tiie completefl. , Thefe bones are joined at their fore-flde to the os frontis by the coronal future; at their long inferior angles, to- the fphenoid bone, by part of the future of this name; at their lower edge, to the ofla temporum, by the fquamous future, and its pofleiior additamentum ; behind, to the os occipitis, or ofl'a triquetra, by the lambdoid future ; and above, to one another, by the fagittal futute. They (x) Covvper. Anatom.cxplic. of tab. 90. fig. a.Chap. ir. BONES OF THE HEAD. 75 They have no particular ufes befides thofe mentioned in the dcfcription of their feveral parts, except what are inclu- ded in the account of the general ftru£lure ofihe cranium. In a child born at the full time, none of the fides of this bone are completed ; and there never is a hole in the oflified part of it near the fagittal future. The large unofllfied ligamentous part of the cranium, obfervable between the parietal bones* and the middle of the divided oS frontis of new-born children, called by the vulgar the open of tlif head, was imagined by the ancients to ferve for the evacuation of the fuperfluous inoifture of the brain : and therefore they named it bregma (y), or tlie fountain; fometimes adding the epithet pulfiliJis, or beat- ing, on account of the pulfation of the brain felt through this flexible ligamento-cartilaginous fubllance. Hence the parietal bones are very frequently called ojfa Ircgmatls. The upper middle part of the head of a child, in a na- tural birth, being what prefents iifclf fiifi; at the os uteri (2), an accoucheur may reach the bregma with his finger, when the os uteri is a little opened. If the bregma Is ftfe'tched, and the pulfation of the brain is felt liirough it, the child is certainly alive : but if it is flirivelled and flac- cid, and without atiy obfervable pulfation in it, there is fome reafon to fufpc£l: the child to be Very weaki or dead. Thofe who pVaclife midwifeVy fliould therefore txamiiie the ftate of the bregma accurately. ‘ All the bregma is ^e'i\t’rally ofiified before feven Velars of age. Several authbi-s' fa) fay, they have otfCryed it unolTified in adults; an'd phyficians, who order the appli- cation of medicines at the''meeting of the dferbnal and fa-. ■ ■ IC 2 ‘ gittal' ' f • , ■ ' ' . • • (y) Pulpitans vertex, folioluiii, folium, triangularis lacuna. (s) Burton’s Midwifery § ji.—Smcllic’s Midwifery, book r. chap. i. § 5. (a) Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib 4. cap. 6.——Dlemerboeck,. Anat. lil/. 9. cap. 6.——Kcrkring Ofteogen. cap. 2.Part I. ^6 OF THE SKELETON. gittal futures, feem^ yet to think that a derivation of noxious humours from th^ encephalon is more eafily procured at this, than at any other part of the (kuH, and that medicme? have a greater cfFcft here than ellewhere in the internal diforders of the ht ad. ' OSSA T E M P O R U M. Ossa Temforum {l>), fo named, fay authors, from tlie hair’s firll becoming gray on the temples, and thus difco- vering peoples ages, are each of them equal and fmooth above, with a very thin femicircular edge; which, from the manner of its conne£l:ion with the neighbouring bones, is diilinguifhed by the name of os fquatnofum.-—- Behind this, the upper part of tlie temporal bone is tl^ieker, and more unequal; and is fometimes deferibed as a diftin^t part, under the name of pars mam'tllaris .(/)•—'—Towards the bafe of the Ikull, the temporal bone appears very irregu- lar and unequal; and this part, inltead of being broad, and pldoed perpendicularly, as the others are, is contradl- ed into an oblong very hard fubflance, extended horizon- tally forwards and inwards, which in its progrefs becomes fmaller, and is commonly called w• . Three external procefles of each temporal bone are ge- nerally deferibed.— The firft, placed at the lower and hmd part of the bone, from its reftmblnncd to a nipple, is called inajloides or mamtllarh, it is not folid ; but within is com- pofed of cancclH, or fiUall cells, which have a communi- cation with the large cavlty^ of the ear, 'the drum ,* ancf therefore founds, being multiplied in this vaulted labyrinth, are increafed before they are applied to the immediate or- .pfinsij . gAIl Kporccpoiv, ycopTeav^ r.oppavt xoKvetSiiy Teinporaliu, pjdofa, mendofa, dura, arctiaiia, tyiupanum, armalia, faxea, parretalia. (c) Albin. de oHib. feft. 26,Chap. ir. BONES OF THE HEAD. 77 gan of hearing. Into the maftoicl procefs the (lerno-nia- ftoideus mufcle is inferted: and to its back part, where the furface is rough, the trachelo-maftoideus and part of the fplenius are fixed. About an inch farther forward, tlie fecond procefs begins to rife out from the bone ; and ha- ving its origin continued oblitjutly downwards and for- wards for fome way, it becomes fmaller, and is ftretched forwards to join \yith the os roalae-, they together forming ,tl\e,,bony jugum, under which the temporal mufcle pafles. Hence this procefs Ik^s been named zygomatic (J). Its up- 1, per edge has the ftrong aponeurofis of the temporal mufcle fixed into it; and its lower part gives rife to a fhare of the maffeter.— The fore-part of the bafe of this procefs is au oblong tubercle, which, in a recent fubjeft, is covered y'ith a fmooth poliflied cartilage, continued from that which lints the cavjty immediately behind this tubercle. •~r-From under the craggy paft of the os temporum, the third procefs (lands out obliquely; forw;\rds. The fliape •of it is generally faid to refemble the ancient Jlylus ferip- torius } and therefore it is called Jlylcidprocefs (c). Some autliofs (f) however contend, ; tliat it ought to be named flehid, front its being, more like a pillar. Several mufclcs have their origin from this procefs, and borrow one half of dieir name from it; as fyiQ-glffuSy JiyIo-f.yoideSy Jlylo- pharyngcus : a ligament of the os hyoides is fometimes fixed to it; and -another is extended from it to the inlide of the. artgle of the lower jaw. This procefs is often, even in adults, not. entirely oflil^ed, but is ligamentous at its root, and is fomttirae.s compofed*of two or three diflincl pieces. Round die root of it, efpecially at the forepart, there ((/) Paris, anfsE offiom temporum, olTa arcualia, paria, jugalia, conjugalia. (f) rpaiy««Ji), gjXa.offJ'i), TTKiiKipov, Os calaminum, fagittale, clavale, acuale calcar capitis. (/) Galen, Deufu part, lib, cap. 4.—Fallop. Obfetvi anat.Part I. 78 OF THE SKELETON. there is a rifing of the os petrofum, which fome authors have efleemed a procefs : and, from the appearance it makes with the ftyliform, have named it vaginalis.—Others again have, under the name of auditory procefs, reckoned among the external proccfles, that femicircular ridge, which run- ning between the root of the maftoid and zygomatic pro- ceflcs, forms the under part of the external meatus audttorius. The JmuoJities or depreffions on the external furface of each temporal bone are thefc : A long fofl'a at the inner and back part of the root of the mammary procefs, where the pollerior head .of the digaftric mufcle has its origin. Immediately before the root of the zygomatic procefs, a confidcrable hollow is left for lodging the crotaphite mufcle—^—Between the zygomatic, auditory, and vaginal proceflcs, a large cavity is formed; through the middle of which, from top to bottom, a fiflure is obfervable, into which part of the ligament that fecures the articulation of the lovA'er jaw with this bone is fixed. The fore-part of the cavity being lined with the fame: cartilage which covers the tubercle before it, receives the condyle of the jaw ; arid in the back-part a fmall fhare of the parotid gland, and a cellular fatty fubftance, are lodged.—At the infide of the root of the ftyloid apophyfe, there is'a thimble-like cavi- ty, where the beginning of the internal jugular v€in, or end of the lateral finus is lodged.—And as the finufes of the two Tides are frequently of unequal fize, fo one of thefe cavities is as often larger than the otlier (g) Round the external meatus auditdrius, feveral finuafities are formed for receiving the cartilages and ligaments of the ear, and for their firm adhefion.j: Tlie holes that^ commonly appear on the outfide of each of thefe bones, and are proper to each of them, are five. -—I'he {£) HunauW. in Mem. de I’acad. des fcienccs, 17 3°- 3Chap.II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 79 The firft, fituated between the zygomatic and maftoid procefles, is the orifice of a large funnel-like canal, which leads to the organ of hearing i and is therefore called wea- tus auditorhis extenms (A).—The fecond gives paflage to the portio dura of the feventh pair of nerves 5 and from its fituation between the mafloid and ftyloid procefles, is called foramnt Jlylo-maflo'ideum (i).-—Some way before, and to the infide of the ftyloid procefs, is'ithe third hole : the canal' from which runs firft upwards, then forwards, and receives into it the interital carotid artery, and the begin- ning of the intercoftal nerve •, where this canal is about to make the turn forwards, one, or fometimes two, very fmall holes go ofF towards the cavity of the ear, called tympa- num : Through thefe Valfalva [k) affirms the proper ar- tery or arteries of that cavity are feiit, On the anterior edge of this bone, near the former, a fourth hole is obfer- ' Table, being the orifice of a canal which runs outwards and backwards, in a horizontal dire£llon, till it terminates in the tympanum. This, in the recent fubjefl:, is conti- nued forward and inward, from the parts which I men- tioned juft now as its orifice in the fkeleton, to the fide of ■the noftrils; being partly cartilaginous, and partly liga- mentous. The whole canal is named her a palato ad eureniy or Eujlachhn tube.—On the external fide of the bony part of this canal, and on the’ top of the chink, in the cavity that receives the condyle, of the lower jaw, is the courfe of the little nerve, called chorda tympaniy and common- ly faid to be reflecSted from the lingual branch of the fifth pair, till it enters the tympanum, to irun acrofs this cavi- ty. The fifth hole is very uncertain, appearing fome- times behind the maftoid procefs; fometimes it is common (A) rio^Mf T»c ajtonf, o»)> TCi'v orav, feneflra aurium. (i) Aquzduflus Fallopit. . . , •p * (t) De aure Inimana, cap. a. § %%. ct tab. 7. fig, i.OF THE SKELETON. Part I. 8o to the temporal and occipital bones; and in feveral fkulls there is no fuch hole. The ufe of it, when found, is for the tranfmiflion of a vein from the external teguments to the lateral finus: But, in fome fubjefts, a branch of the occipital artery pafles through this hole, to ferve the back- part of the dura mater; in others, I have feen two or three fuch holes: but they are oftener w^anting than found. And we may once for all, in general remark, that the largenefs, number, fuuation, and exillence of all fuch holes as for the molt part allow only a paffage for veins from without to the internal receptacles, are very uncertain. The internal furface of the olfa temporum is unequal; the upper circular edge of the fquamous part having nu- merous fmall ridges and furrows for its cohjun£lion with the parietal bones ; and the reft of it is irregularly marked, with the convolutions of the middle part of the brain, and with furrows made by the branches of the arteries of th^ dura mater. From the under part of this internal furface, a larger trailfverfe hard craggy protuberance runs horizontally in- wards and forwards, with a (harp edge above, and two flat lides, one facing obliquely forw'ards and outwards, and the other as much backwards and inwards. To the ridge be- tween thefe two fides, the large lateral proccl's of the du- ra mater is fixed. Sometimes a fmall bone, like the fcfamcld, is found between the fmall end of this petrous procefs and,the fphe- noid bone (/). Towards the back-part of the Infide of the temporal bone, a large deep folia is confpicuous, where the lateral finus lies; and frequently on the top of the petrous ridge, a fur- row may be obfeived, where a fmall finus is filuated. The % (/) Riolan. Comment, de offib. cap. 32. Winflow, Expofition anato. nMflUC de corps liumaui. trait, des os fees, § s66.BONES OF THE HEAD. Chap. ir. 8i The internal proper fcramina of each of thefe bones are, firft, the interival meatus auditorius in the pofterior plain fide <!f the petrous procefs. This hole foon divides into two; one of which is the beginn’ng of the aquedu£t of Fallopius; the other ends in feveral very fmall canals (»;) tliat allow a pafThge to the branches of the portio mollis of the feventh pair of nerves, into the veftibul'e and cochlea* Through it alfo an artery is fent, to be dillributed to the organ of hearing.—The fecond hole, which is. on the ante- rior plain fide of the craggy procefs, gives paflage to a re- fledted branch of the fecond branch of the fifth pair of nerve's, which joins the portio dura of the auditory nerve, ■while it is in the aquedutl («), fmall branches of blood- veffels accompanying the nerves, or pafling through fmal- ler hples near it.—The paflirge^of the cutaneous vein into the lateral finus, or of a branch cf the occipital artery, is feen about the middle of the large fofhi for that finus; and the orifice of the canal of the carotid artery is evident at the under part of the point of the petpous procefs. Befides thefe proper holes of the temporal bones which appear on their external and internal furfaces, t|rere are two others in each fide that are common to this bone, and to the occipital and fphenoidal bones ; which fhall be men,- tioned afterwards in the defeription of thefe bi»nes. The upper round part of tire fquamous bones is thin, but equal; while the low petrous part is thick and ftrong, but irregular and unequal, having the dillindlion of tables and diplce confounded, wiih feveral cavities, procefles, and bones within its fubltance, which are parts of the organ of hearing.' lhat a clear idea may be had of this beautiful, but intricate organ, anatomifts generally choofe to demon- llrate all its parts together. 1 tliink the method good ; and L therefore, (m) Valfalva de aure Humana, cap, 3. § n. (/.') Ibid, cap. 3. § IQ,82 Pan L OF THE SKELETON. therefore, fmce it would be improper to infert a complete treatife on the ear here, I fliall omit the defcription of the parts contained within the os petrofum of the fkeleton. • The temporal bones are joined above to the parietal bones by the fquamous futures and thdr pofterior additamenta : Before, to the fphenoid bone, by the future of that name; to the cheek bones, by the zygomatic futures : Behind, to the occipital bone by the lambdoid future and its addita- jBients; and they are articulated with the lower jaw in the manner which lhall be deferibed when this hone is exami- ned. The purpofes which thefe two bones ferve, are eafily col- lected, from the general ufe of the cranium, and from what has been faid in the defcription of their feveral parts* In an infant, a fmall filTure is to be obferved between the thin upper part and the lower craggy part of each of thefe bones ; which points out the recent union of thefe parts.—Neither maftoid nor flyloid proceffes are yet to be feen.—Inllead of a bony funnel-like external meatus au- dltorius, there is only a fmooth bony ring, within w’hich ijte membrane of the drum is faftened—At the entry of the Eufiiachiart tube, the fide of the tympanum is not comple- ted —A little more outward than the internal audito- ry canal, there is a deep pit, over the upper part of whofc orihee the interior femicircular canal of the ear is ftretch- ed, and fome w'ay below this,, the pofterior femicircular canal alfo manifeftly appears. . ,1' - OS OCCIPITIS. Os OCCIPITIS (o), fo called from its fituation, is convex on the outfide^^and concave internally. Its figure is an ir- regular fquare, or rather rhomboid j of which the angle - above (9) In#v, Bxfilare, proraf, memoria;* pyxidis, fibrofum, nervofunijitunWc. •Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. above Is generally a little rounded; the two lateral angles are more finiflied, but obiufe; and the lower one is ftretched forw'ard in form of a wedge, and thence is calleh by fome the cuneiform procefs.~If one would, however, be very nice in obferving the feveral turns which the edges of the os occipitjs make, five or feven fides, and as many angles of this bone, might be deferibed. • The external furface is convex, except at the cuneiform apophyfe, where It is flatted. At the bafe of this triangu- lar procefs, on each fide of the great hole, but more ad- vanced forwards than the middle of it, the large oblong protuberances, named the condyles, appear, to ferve for the articulation of this bone with the firft vertebra of the neck. The fmooth furface of each of thefe condyloid procefles is longefl; from behind forwards, where, by their oblique fituatlon, they come much nearer to each other than they are at their back-part. Their inner fides are lower than the external, by which they are prevented from Aiding to either fide out of the cavities of the firft verte- bra (/>). In fome fubjedbs, each of thefe plain fmooth furfaces feems to be divided by a fmall rlfing in its middle; and the lower edge of each condyle, next the great fora- men, is difeontinued about the middle, by an intervening notch: Whence fome {q) allcdge, that each of thefe apo- phyfes is made up of two protuberances. Round their root a fmall depreflion and fpongy roughnefs is obferva- ble, where the ligaments for furrounding and fecuring their articulations adhere—Though the motion of the head is performed on the condyles, yet the centre of gra- vity of that globe does not fall between them, but is a good way farther forward ; from whichumeclianifm it is evident, that the mufcles which pull the head back muft be in a conftant ftate of contradion i whiph is ftronger than ^ 2 tll3 {P) Galen. d« ulu part. l!b, la. cap. 7. (?) Diemcrbrock, Anat. Ub. 9, eap. 6.OF THE SKELETON. Part 1. 84 the natural contraaion of the proper flexors, elfe the head would always fall forwards, as it does when a man is a- fleep, or labours under a pally, as well as in infants, where the weight of the head far exceeds the proportional flrengih of thefe mufcles. This feeming difadVantageous fituatiou of the condyles is, however, of lingular ufe, by allowing fufficient fpace for the cavities of the mouth and fauces, and for lodging a fuEcient number of mufcles, which commonly ferve for other ufss; but may at pleafure be dire£led to adt on the head, and then they have an advan- tageous lever to adl with, fo as to be able to fullain a con- fiderable weight, or other force applied, to pull the head back. Somewhat more externally than the condyles, tliere is a fmall rifing and femilunated hollow in each fide, which make part of the holes common to the occipital and pe- trous bones.—Immediately behind this, on each fide, a fcabrous ridge is extended from the middle of the condyle towards the root of the maflold procefs. Into this ridge the mufculus lateralis, commonly afcribed to Fallopius, is inferted.—About the middle of the external convex fur- face, a large arch runs crofs the bone ; froiTi the upper laeral parts of which the occipital mpfcles have their rife ; to its middle the trapezii are attached; and half-way be- tween this and the great hole, a leffer arch is extended. In the })ollows between the middle of thefe arches the com- plex! are inferred; and in the depreEons more external and further forward than thefe, the fplenii are infericdi Eetween the middle of the kiTer arch and the great hole* the little hollpw rriarks of the redfi minores appear-, and on each fi^e of thefe the lldhy infertions of the obliqui fu- p^riores and reifU niajores make deprellious.——Through the middle of i;]ie .tw'0 arches a fmall Earp fpine is placed, ■vj^ch ferves kind of partition between tl\e mufcles85 Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. of different Tides, or rather is owing to the adfion of the mufcles depreffing the bone on each fide of it, while this part is free from their compreffion. Thefe prints of the mufcles of this bone are very ftrong and plain in fome fubjeas, but are not fo diftind in others. All round the great foramen, tliii edges are unecjual, for the firmer .ul- hefion of the ftrong citcular ligament which goes thence to the firft vertebra. One end of each lateral or moderator ligament of the head, is fixed to a rough furface at the fore-part of each condyle, and the perpendicular one is conne£fed to a rough part of the edge of the great hole between the two condyles. Immediately before the con- dyles, two little deprelfions are made in the external fur- face of the cuneiform procefs, for the infertion of the re.Pi anteriores minores mufcles, which are unjuftly aferi- bed to Cowper: And ftill farther forward, near the fphe-. noid bone, are two other fuch depreffions, for the recep- tion of the reiTi anteriores majores. When we confider the fize of the prints of mufcles on the occipital bone, be- fore and behind its condyles, and at the fame time com- pare their diftances from thefe centres of motion of the head, we mull fee how much ftronger the mufcles are which pull the head backwards, than thofe which bend it forward ; and how much greater force the former ac- quire by the long lever they a£t with, than the latter which are inferted fo near the condyles, This great force in the extenfor mufcles is altogether neceffary, that they might not only keep the head from falling forward in an eiedl pofture, but that they might fupport it when we bow forward in the moft neceflary offices of focial life, when the weight of the head comes to a£l at right angles on the verte- bra of the neck, and obtains a long lever to a£l with. On the inner furface of the os occipitis we fee two ridges ; one ftanding perpendiculiirly, the other running horizontal-OF THE SKELETON. Part r. 86 \ ly acrofs the firft. The upper part of the perpendicular limb of the crofs, to which the falx is fixed, is hollowed in the middle, or often on one fide, for the reception of the fuperior longitudinal finus; and the lower part of it has the fmall or third procefs of the dura mater faftened to it, and is fometimes hollowed by the occipital finus. Each fide of the horizontal limb is made liollow by the lateral finufes inclofed in the tranfverfe procefs of the dura ma- ter; the fofla in the right fide being generally a continua- tion of the one made by the longitudinal finus in the per- pendicular limb, and therefore is larger than the left one (;•), ——Round the middle of the crofs there are four large d^preffions, feparated by its limbs; the two upper ones be- ing formed by the back part of the brain, and the two lower ones by the cerebellum. Farther forward than the lad mentioned depreffions, is the lower part of the fof- fa for the lateral finus on each fide. The inner furface of the cuneiform apophyfe is made concave for the recep- tion of the medtllla oblongata, and of the bafilar artery A furrow is made on each fide, near the edges of this pro- cefs, by a finus of the dura mater, which empties itfclf into the lateral finus (j). The holes of this bone are commonly five proper, and two common to it and to the temporal bones. The firft of the proper holes, called foramen magnum (/) from its fize, is immediately behind the wedge-like procefs; and allows a- pafiage to the medulla obldngata, nervi acceflbrii, to the vertebral arteries, and fometimes to the vertebral veins. At each fide of this great hole, near its fore part, and immediately above the condyles, we always find a hole, fometimes twcf,‘ which foon unite again ifito one, that opens I !i3i " externally; - . . 1 . ■ : I . . • . J ' Morgagn. Adverf. anat. 6. animad. I. ' Albin. de otfib. fe^t. 6g. (/) Rachitidis, Medulla: rphialis.87 Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. ■s. externally; through thefe the ninth pair of nerves go out of the Ikull The fourth and fifth holes pierce from be- hind the condyle of each fide into the foflae of the lateral finufes; they ferve for the paflage of the cervical veins to thefe finufes. Often one of thefe holes is wanting, fome- times both, \vhen the veins pafs through the great fora- iiien. Befides thefe five, we frequently meet with other holes near the edges of this bone, for the tranfmiffion of veins; but their number and diameter are very uncertain. The two common foramina are the large irregular holes, one in each fide, between the fides of the cuneiform pro- cefs and the edges of the petrous bones. In a recent fub- je£l, a ftrong membrane runs crofs from one fide to the other of each of thefe holes: in fome heads I have feen this membrane oQlfied, or a bony partition dividing each liole: and in the greater number of adult Ikulls, a fmall fharp.pointed procefs ftands out from *the os petrofum, and there is a more obtufe rlfing in the occipital bone, be- tween which the partition is ftretched. Behind this parti- tion, where the largeft fpace is left, the lateral finus has its palTage ; and before it the eighth pair of nerves and acceflbrius make their exit out of the Ikull; and fome au- thors fay, an artery pafles through tliis hole to be bellow- ed on the dura mater. The occipital bone is among the thickeft of the cranium, though unequally fo; for it .is llronger above, where it has uo other defence than the common teguments, than it is below; for being there prefled by the lobes of the brain and cerebellum on one fide, and by the a6lion of the mufcles on the other, it is fo very thin as to be diaphanous in mtt- ny fkulls: but then thefe mufcles: ward off injuries; and the ridges and fpines, which are frequent here, make it fufliclently ftrong to refill ordinary forces. ^ ■. . " II.. The88 O F T H E S K E L E T O N. Part t The tables and diploe are tolerably diftindl; in this bone, except where it is fo thin as to become diaphanous. The occipital bone is joined above to the ofla parietalia, and to the triquetra, when prefent, by the lambdoid future; —laterally to the temporal' bones, by the additamenta of the lambdoid future—below to the fphenoid bone, by the end of its cuneiform procefs, in the fame way that epiphy- fes and their bones are joined : For in children a ligamen- tous cartilage is interpofed between the occipital and fphe- noid bones, which gradually turns thinner as each of the bones advances, till their fibres at lafl: run into each other; and, about fixteen or eighteen years of age, the union of thefe two bones becomes fo intimate, that a feparation can- not be made v/ithout violence.—The os occipitis is joined by a double articulation to the Crft vertebra of the neck, e.lch condyle being received into a fuperior oblique procefs of that vertebra. What motion is allowed here we fliall confider afterwards, where the vertebrae are deferibed.. The ufes of this bone appear from the preceding defciip- tion, and therefore need not be repeated. An infant, born at the full time, has this bone divided, by unofiified cartilages, into four parts.—The firft of thefe is larger than the other three, is of a triangular fliape, and conftitutes all the part of the bone above the great fora- men. Fiflures generally appear in the upper part and Tides of this triangular bone, when all the cartilage is feparated by maceration ; and fometimes little dillin£f bones are feen towards the edges of it —The fecond and third pieces of this bone are exa£fly alike, and fituated on each fide of the great foramen, from wirich the whole condyles are nearly produced; and they are extended forwards almoft to the fore part of the hole for the ninth pair of nerves.— The fourth piece is the cuneiform procefs, which forms a fmall fliare of the great hole, and of thofe for the ninth pairChapiir. BONES OF THE HEAD. 8(^ pair of nerves and of the condylesbetwixt it and the fphe- noid bone, a cartilage is interpofed. Of the eight bones wdiich belong to the cranlum> there are only two which are not yet defcribed, viz. the ethmo'ii and fphetioid. Thefe we already mentioned, in complai- fance to the generality of writers on this fubjeft, as bones common to the cranium and face, becaufe they enter into the compofition of both -, but the fame reafon might equal- ly be ufed For calling the frontal bone a common one too. I fhall, however, pafs any idle difpute about the propriety of ranging them, and proceed to examine the flru£ture of the bones themfelves, OS ETHMOIDES. Os Ethmoides (?/), or the fteve-lih bone, has got its hame from the great number of fmall holes with which that part of it firll taken notice of is pierced. When this bone is entire, the figure of it is not eafily defcribed; but by a detail of its feveral parts, fome idea may be afforded of the whole ; and therefore I fliall difl.Inguiflr it into the cribriform lamella with its procefs, the nafal lamella, celluLe, and o£a fpougiofa. The thin horizontal lamella is all (except its back-part) ' pierced obliquely by a great number of fmall holes, through which the filaments of the olfactory nerves pafs. In a re- cent fubje£F, thefe holes are fo cloftly lined by the dura mater, that they are much lefs confpicuous than in the fke- leton. From the middle of the internal fide of this plate, a thick procefs rifes upwards; and being higheft at the fore-part, gradually becomes lower as it is extended back- wards. From fome refemblance which this proceft was imagined to.have to a cock’s comb, it h^s been called crijla "VoL* I. iM gal/f («) Cribiiforme, itTtoyyoeiSnc, fpongiforme, cilflatutp, .OF THE SKELETON. Part 1. 90 gain (x). The falx is conneded to its ridge, and to the unperforated part of the cribriform plate. When the crifta is broke, its bafe is fometimes found to be hollow, with its cavity opening into the nofe (y). Immediately before the higheft part of this procefs, is the blind hole of the frontal bone, which, as was formerly remarked, is often in a good meafure formed by a notch in the fore-part of the root of the crifta. From the middle of the outer furface of the cribriform lamella, a thin folid plate is extended downwards and for- w’ards, having the fame common bafe with the crifta galll. Generally it is not exaiftly perpendicular, but is inclined to one fide or other, and therefore divides the cavity of the nofe unequally. Its inclination to one fide, and flexure in the middle, is fometimes fo great, that it_ fills up a large fhare of one of the noftrils, and has been mlftaken for a polypus there. It is thin at its rife, and rather ftill thin- ner in its middle; yet afterwards, towards its lower edge, it becomes thicker, that its conjundHon with the bones and middle cartilage of the nofe might be firmer. At a little diftance from each fide of this external pro- cefs, a cellular and fpongy bony fubftancfe depends from the cribriform plate. The number and figure of the cells in this irregular procefs of each fide, are very uncertain, and not to be reprefented in words; only the cells open into each other, and into the cavity of the nofe : The up- permoft, which are below the aperture of the frontal finuf- es, are formed like funnels. The outer furface of thefe cells is fmooth and plain, where this bone aflifts in compo- fing the orbit; at which place, on each fide, it has got the name of os planum; on the upper edge of which a final! notch or two may fometimes be obfcrved, which go to the formation (*) Verruca pra:dnra, feptum oflis fpongiofi. (ji) Palfyn. Anat, chir, tr. 4. ch. 15.BONES. OF THE FIE AD. 91 Chap. II. formation of the internal orbitar holes; as was remarked in the defcription of the frontal bones. Below the cells of each fide, a thin plate is extended jnv/ards; and then bending down, it becomes thick and of a fpongy texture. This fpongy part is triangular, with a ftraight upper edge placed horizontally, an anterior one flantin’g from above, downwards and forwards, and with a pendulous convex one below. The upper and lower edges terminate in a fliarp point behind. The fide of this pendu- lous fpongy part next to the feptum narium is convex, and its external fide is concave. Thefe two procelTes of the ethmoid bone have got the name of ojfa fporgiofa, or iiir- binata fuperiora^ from their fubllance, figure, and fitua- tion. All the prominences, cavities, and meanders of this eth- moid bone, are covered with a continuation of the mem- brane of the noftrils in a recent fubjeft. Its horizontal cri- briform is lodged between tlie orbitar procefles of the frontal bone, to which it is joined by the ethmoid future, except at the back part, where it is conne£l;ed with the cu- neiform bone by a future common to both thefe bones, though it is generally efteemed part of the fphenoidal Where the ofla plana are contiguous to the frontal bone within the orbit, their conjundlion is reckoned part of the tranfverfe future. Farther forward than the ofla plana, the cells are covered by the ofla unguis: which are not only contiguous to thefe cells, but cannot be feparated from them without breaking the bony fubftance; and therefore, in propriety, thofc bones ought to be demon- ftrated as part of the ethmoid bone.—'. .Below the oflh unguis and plana, thefe cells and olTa fpongiofa are over- lapped by the maxillary bones. The cellular part of each palate bone is contiguous to each os planum, and to the cells backwards. The lower edge of the nafal perpendicular pl^te M2 ISOF THE SKELETON. Part I 92 I Is received into the furrow of the vomer.—Its pofterior edge is joined to the fore-part of the proceflus azygos of the fphenoid bone. Its upper edge joins the nafal procefs of the frontal and nafal bones ; and its anterior one is epn- nefled to the middle cartilage of the nofe. From all which, the ufes of this bone are evident, viz. to fuftain the anterior lobes of the brain; to give paflage to the olfaftory nerves, and attachment to the falx ; to enlarge the organ of fmelling, by allowing the membrane of the nofe a great extent; to ftraighten the paflage of the nir through the nofe, by leaving only a narrow winding canal, on the fenfible membranous fides of which the fub- flances conveyed along with the air mull ftrike; to form part of the orbit of the eyes and feptum narium; while all its parts are fo light as. not to be in hazard of feparating by their weight; and they are fo thin as to form a large fur- face, without occupying much fpace. This brittle fub- flance, however, -is fufficiently protected from external in- , juries by the firm bones which cover it. If this bone is feized on by any corroding matter, we may eafily conceive what defl;ru£lion may enfue. Hence it is, that an oztena is difficult to cure; and that in vio- lent feurvies, or in the lues venerea, the fabric of the nofe, the eyes, and life itfelf are in danger. The fituation of the nafal plate may fhow us how dangerous a fradlure of • the bones of the nofe may be, when made by a force ap- plied to their middle fore-part, of a perfon in whom this nafal plate is perpendicular. The ethmoid bone of ripe children is divided into two by a perpendicular cartilage, which, when offified, is the crifha galli and nafal plate; but its other parts are offified and complete. OS' Chap. II. 93 BONES OF THE HEAD. OS SPHENOIDES. Os SPHENOIDES (z), Or iijedge-lihe bone, fo called be- \ Caufe of its fituation in the middle of the bones of the cra- nium and face, is of fuch an irregular figure, that I know not any thing to which it may be compared, unlefs, per- haps, it bear fome faint refemblance to a bat with its wings extended. When we view the external furface of the os fphenoides,k two or three remarkable procefles from each fide of it may be obfcrved, which are all of them again fubdivided. The firft pair is the two large lateral procefles or wings; the upper part of each of which is called the temporal pro- cefsy becaufe they join with the temporal bones in forming the temples, und the feat for fome fliare of the crotaphite mufcles. That part of the wings which juts out towards the infide, fomewhat lower than the temporal apophyfes, and is fmooth and hollowed, where it makes up part of the orbit, isj thence named orbitar procejfes. Behind the edge feparating thefe two procefles, there is often a fmall groove, made by a branch of the fuperior maxillary nerve, in its paflage to the temporal mufcle. The Iqwefl; and back part of each ^wing, which runs out fliarp to meet the ofTa petrofa, has been ftyled the fpinous procefs : from near tl^e point of which a fharp-pointed procefs is frecjuently produ- ced downwards, commonly called Jlyliform^ that affords ori- gin to the ptery-ftaphylinus externus mufcle. From this ftyloid procefs a very fmall groove is extended along the edge of the bone to the hollow at the root of the internal plate of the following procefles, which forms, part of the Euflachian (z) Cuneiforme, re\vfiopfov, multifopme, paxillum, cribratum palati, cox Igtorii, cavilla, baliUre.94 OF THE SKELETON. Part I. Euftachian tube (a). The fecond pair of external procefles of the cuneiform bone, is the two which Hand out almoft perpendicular to the bafe of the Ikull. Each of them has two plates, and a middle fofla facing backwards; and ihould, to carry on our comparifon, be likened to the legs of a bat; but are commonly faid to refemble the wings of that creature j-and therefore are named pterygoid or aliform {h) procefles. The external plates are broadeft, and the internal are longeft. From each fide of the external plates the pterygoid mufcles take their rife. At the root of each internal plate, a fmall hollow may be remarked, where the mufculus ptery-ftaphilinus internus or circumflexus palati rifes, and fome fhare of the cartilaginous end of the Eufta- chian tube refts; and, at the lower end of the fame plate, is a hook like rifing or procefs, round which the tendon of the lad-named mufcle plays, as on a pulley. From the edge of the external plates fome fmall fharp fpikes Hand out; but their number and bulk are uncertain. To thefe another pair may be added, to wit, the little triangu- lar thin procefs, which comes from each fide of the body of the fphenoid bone, where the pteregoid procefles arc ri- fing from it, and are extended over the lower part of the aperture of the finus as far as to join the ethmoid bone, while their body hangs down Into the nares (c). Befides thefe pair of procefles, there is a fharp,ridge which flands out from the middle of its bafe : Becaufe it wants a fellow, it may be called proccjfus azygos. The lower part of this procefs, where it is received into the vomer, is thick, and often not quite perpendicular, but inclining more to one fide than the other. The fore-part of this procefs, where it (a) Winflow Expof. anatomique du corps humain, traite des os fees, § 233. (i) Navicularcs, ' (c) Albin. Tab, Off. 5. fig. 2. 6. A. A. Berlin. Mem. de I’acad. des feiences, 1744.—Sue, plandic viii. fig. 2, 3,4, 3, 6.Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 9J I From it joins the nafal plate of the os ethmoides, is thin and ftraight. Thefe two parts have been defcribed as* two di- ftindl procefies by fome writers. The depreffions, finuofities, and foflx, on the external furface of this fphenoid bone, may be reckoned up to a great number, viz. Two on the temporal apophyfes, where the crotaphite mufcles lodge—Two on the orbitar procef- fes, to make way for the globes of the eyes Two be- tween the temporal and fpinous procefles, for receiving the temporal bones Two between the plates of the pte- rygoid procefles, where the mufculi pterygoidei interni and ptery-ftaphylini interni are placed—Two between the pterygoid and orbitar procefles, for forming the holes common to this and to the cheek and maxillary bones—■ Two on the lower ends of the allform procefles, which the palate bones enter into Two at the roots of the tem- poral and pterygoid procefles, where the largeft (hare of the external pterygoid mufcles have their rife—Two at the fides of the proceflTus azygos, for forming part of the nofe, &c. What I defcribed under the name of temporal and fpinous procejfes on the outfide of the flcull, are likewlfe feen on its inflde, where they are concave, for receiving part of the brain; and commonly three apophyfes on the internal fur- face of the fphenoid bone are only mentioned. Two rlfing broad from the fore-part of its body, become fmaller as they are extended obliquely backwards. The third Hand- ing on a long tranfverfe bafe, near the back part of the bo- dy of this bone, rifes nearly ereft, and of an equal breadth, terminating often in a little knob on each fide. The three are called clinoid, from fome refemblance which they were thought to have to the fupporters of a bed. Sometimes one or both the anterior cllnoid procefTes are joined to the Cdes of the poftcrior one, or the body of the bone Itfelf. '•OF THE SKELETON. Pan I. From the roots of the anterior clinoid procefles the bone is 'extended on each fide outwards and forwards* till it ends in a fliarp point, which may have the name of the tranfverfc fpinous procefies.—Between, but a little farther back than the two anterior clinoid procefles, we fee a protuberance confiderably fmaller than the pofterior clinoid procefs, but of its fliape. Another procefs from between the tranf- verfe procefles, often forces itfelf forwards into the os eth- moides. Within the flcull, there are two ftmi(Jities in the internal part of each wing of the fphenoid bone, for receiving the middle part of the brain—One between the tranfverfe fpi- nous procefles, for lodging the part of the brain where the crura medullse dblongatae are.——Immediately before the third or middle clinoid procefs, a Angle pit may generally be remarked, from which a foflTa goes out on each fide to the holes through which the optic nerves pafs. The pit is formed by the conjoined optic nerves; and in the folTa thefe nerves are lodged, as they run divided within the Ikull. Between that third protuberance and the, pofterior clinoid procefs, the larger pit for the glandula pituitaria may be remarked. This cavity, becaufe of its refemblance to aTurkifti faddle, is always deferibed under the name of fella lurcicay or ephippium.—On the Tides of the pofterior clinoid procefs a foftir may be remarked, that ftretches up- "wards, then is continued forwards along the fides of the fella turcica, near to the anterior clinoid procefles, where a pit on each fide is made. Thefe folTse point out the courfe of the two internal .carotid arteries, after they have entered the fkull. Befides all thefe, feveral other foflie may be obferved, leading to the feveral holes, and im* printed by the nerves and blood-vefiels. The holes on each fide of the os fphenoides are fix pro- per, and three common. The firft is the round one im* mediately97 Chap. ir. BONES OF THE HEAD. piediately below the anterior'cHnoicl procelTes, for the paf- fage of the optic nerve, and of the branch of the internal carotid artery that is fent to the eye. The fecond is the foramen lacerum, or large flit between the tVanfverfe fpi- nous and orbitar procefl'es: the interior end of which flit is large^; and, as it is extended outwards, it becomes nar- rower. The outer end of it is formed in the os frontis; and therefore this might be reckoned among the'common foramina. Through it the third, fourth, the firtl branch of the fifth, iind the greater Ihare of the fixth pair of nerves, and an artery from the internal carotid, go into the orbit. Sometimes a fmall branch of the external ca- rotid enters near its end, to be diflributed to the dura ma- ter {d); and a vein, fome call it the venous dudt, or Nuck^s aqueducly returns through it to the cavernous finus. The third hole, fituated a little below tire on^ juft now defer!- bed, is called rotundum, from its fliape. It allows paflage to the fecond branch of the fifth pair of nerves, or fupe- riQr maxillary nerve, into the bottom of the orbit. The fourth is the foramen ovale., about half an' inch behind the round hole. Through it the third branch of the fifth pair, or inferior maxillary nerve, goes out ; and fometimes a vein from the dura mater pafles out here (e).—Very near the point of the fpinous procefs is the fifth hole of this bone ; it is fmall and round, for a paflage to the larged artery of the dura mater, which is often accompanied with a vein—The fixth proper hole (/) cannot be well fecn, till the cuneiform bone is feparated from all the other bones of the cranium ; for one end of it is hid by a fmall VoL. I. N protuberance (i/) Wlnflow, Exppfitlon aoatoralque du corps humain, truite dcs arte- ries, § 6o. et de la tete, § a6. (e) Ingrad'. Commentar. in Galen, de odib. lib. i. comment. 8. (/) Vefal. Anat. lib. i. cap. Euftach. tab. 46. fig, 13. & 16. Vidns Vidius, Anat. lib. %, cap. 3. explic.at. tab. 5. Si tab. 6. fig. 8. 9. lit. Q.Part I. OF THE SKELETON. I protuberance of the internal plate of the pterygoid procefs, and by the point of the procefi'us petrofus of the temporal bone. Its canal is extended above the inner plate of the \ pterygoid procefs ; and where it opens into the cavity of the nofe, it is concealed by the thin laminous part of palate-bone. Through it a confiderable branch of the fe- cond branch of the fifth pair of nerves is refleifled.—In the middle of the fella turcica, a fmall hole or two often pierce as far as the cellular fubftance of the bone ; and fometlmes at the Tides of this fella, one or more fmall holes, penetrate into the fphenoidal finufes. Thefe obfervations afforded fome anatomifts (^) an argument of weight in their days in defence of Galen (/a), who aflertcd the defcent of the pituita that way into the finufes below. , Tire firft of the common holes is that unequal fiffure at the fide of the fella turcica, between the extreme point of the os petrofum and the fpinous procefs of the cuneiform bone. This hole only appears after the bones are boiled ; for in a recent fubjciSl its back-part is covered by a thin bony plate that lies over the internal carotid artery, and farther forward it is filled wdth a cartilaginous ligament, under which the cartilaginous part of the Euftachian tube is placed: It was by this paffage that the antients believed the flimy matter M'as conveyed from the emunclory of the brain, the glandula pituitaria, to the fauces. The fe- cond common hole is the large difeontinuation of the ex- ternal fide of the orbit, left between the orbitar pnocelfes of the cuneiform bone, the os maxillare, malse, and pa- lati. In this large hole the fat for lubricating the globe of the eye and temporal mufcles is lodged, and branches of the fuperior maxillary nerve, with fmall arteries from the carotid, \ (£) Joe. Syl. CalumnijB fecundz amolitio.—Laurent. Hid. Anat. lib. ii> queft. II. (A) Galcn.de ufu part. lib. ix. cap. I.99 BONES OF THE HEAD. Cliap. II. carotid, and veins, pafs. The third hole is formed be- tween the bafe of this bone and the root of the orbitar procefs of the palate-bone of each fide. Throui^h this a branch of the external carotid artery, and of the fecond branch of the fifth pair of nerves, are allowed a paflage to the noftrils, and a returning vein accompanies them. Some- times, however, this hole is proper to the palate-bone, being entirely formed out of its fubftance. i Hnder the fella turcica, and fome way farther forwardj but within the fubftance of the fphenoid bone, are two JitwfeSy feparated by a bony plate." Each of them is lined with a membrane, and opens into the upper and back part of each noftril by a round hole, which is at their upper fore-part. This hole is not formed only by tke os fphe- noides, which has an aperture near as large as any tianf- Verfe fe£Iion of the fmus, but alfo by the palate-bones, which are applied to the fore part of thefe finufes, and clofe them up, that hole only excepted which was already mentioned. The two finufes are frequently of unequal dimenfions, and fometimes there is only one large cavity, with an opening into one noftril. Thefe cavities are like- wife laid (i) to be extended fometimes as far back as the .great foramen of the occipital bone. In other fubjedfs . they are not to be found, when the bone is compofed of large cells (^). Some (/) mention a cavity within the' par- tition of the finufes ; but it is fmall. The fphenoidal finufes ferve the fame ufes as the frontal. As this bone is extremely ragged and unequal, fo its fub- ftance is of very different thicknefs, being in fome places diaphanous ; in others it is a middle thicknefs, and its rriid- d!e back part furpafles the greateft flrare of the cranium in thicknefs. Ihe os fphenoides is joined by its wings to the parietal , N 2 * ' bones («) Albin. de oflib. § 39. (i) Vcfel, lib. I. cap. 6. (0 Id. ibid.Part t OF THE SKELETON. 100 bonnes above, to the os frontls and ofla malarum before, to the temporal bones behindby the fore-part of its body and fpinous proceffes, to the frontal and ethmoid bones; by its back-part, behind the two finufes, to the occipital, where it looks like a bone with the epiphyfes taken off, and, as was formerly obferved in the defcrip- tion of the occipital bone, it cannot be feparated without violence in adults; to the palate-bones, by the ends of the pterygoid procefs, and ftiil more by the fore-part of the internal plates of the pterygoid^i^ocefles, and of the finufes;—to the maxillary bones,- bAthe fore-part of the external pterygoid plates;—to the vomer and nafal plate of the os ethmoides, by the proceltus azygos. All thefe conjun£lions, except the laft, which is a fchindylefis, are faid to be by the future proper to this bone ; though it Is at firft fight evident, that feveral other futures, as the .1 tranfverfe, ethmoidal, &c. are confounded with it. We fee now how this bone is joined to all the bones of the cranium, and to mofi; of the upper jaw; and therefore obtained the name of the nvedgf-like bone. The ufes are fo blended with the defeription, as to leave nothing new to be added concerning them. The fphenoidal bone is almoft complete in a foetus of nine months^: only the great alas feparate after maceration from the body of the bone.—The procefTus azygos is very large and hollow ; the thin triangular procell'es are not oflified; the internal furface of the body is unequal and porous; the fiuufes do not appear. Whoever is acquainted with each bone of the cranium, can, without dilEculty, examine them as they Hand united, fo as to know the fliapes, fizes, diftances, &c. of their fe- veral parts, and the forms, capacities, &c. of the cavities formed by them ; which is of great ufe towards under- ftanding the anatomy of the parts contiguous to, contain- edI (w) S(Pt/«y, roandibuU, (».) Lib. 8. <»p. i. Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. tot ed within, or connected to them. Such a review is necef- fary, after confidering each clafs of bones. Thus the or- bits, noftrils, mouth, face, head, fpine, thorax, pelvis, trunk, extremities, and {keleton, ought likewife to be ex- amined. § 2. Bones of the Face. The face is the irregular pile of bones compofnig thd fore and under part of the head, which is divided by authors into the upper and lower maxllU or jaws. The fuperhr maxilla {m) is the common defignation gi- ven to the upper immoveable fliare oF the face ; though, if we would follow Celfus («), we fliould apply the word maxilla to the lower jaw only, and the name ?nala to this Upper jaw. In complaifance to prevailing cullom, I flialf, however, ufe the terms as they are now commonly em- ployed. The fliape of the fuperior jaw cannot eafily be cxprefled ; nor is it necelTary, provided the fliape and fi- tuation of all the bones which compofe it are dcfcribed. It is bounded above by the tranfverfe future, behind by the fore-part of the' fphenoid bone, and below by the mouth. The upper jaw confift* of fix bones on each fide; of a thirteenth bone which has no fellow, placed in the middle ; and of fixteen teeth. The thirteen bones are, two ofia nafi, two ofla unguis, two ofla malarum, two ofTa maxillaria, two ofla palati, two offii fpongiofa inferiora, and the vo- mer. The ojfa naft are placed at the upper part of the nofc; ojfa unguis are at the internal canthi of the orbits ; oJfa mu’- larum form the prominence of the cheeks; ojfa maxillaria formPart 1. X02 OF THE SKELETON. form the fide of the nofe, with the whole lower and fore-part of tlie upper jaw, and the greateft fliare of the roof of the mouth; ojfa palati are fituated at the back part of the palate, noftrils, and orbit; oJJ'a fponghfa are ften in the lower part of the nates; and the vomer helps to fepa- rate thefe two cavities. The bones of the upper jaw are joined to the bones of the fkull by the fchindylefts and futures already defcribed as comnionto the cranium and face, and they are conne£led to td.ch.otXxtvh'j gomphofts and fifteen futures. The gcmphofis is only where the teeth are fixed in their fockets, and the fchhid^lc^n is only where the edges of the vomer are joined to other bones. The futures are generally diltinguifhed by numbers, which Iiave been differently applied ; and therefore I join thofe (o) who prefer the giving names to each, which may be eafily contrived from their fituation, or from the bones which'they connect. The firfl; is the anterior nafal (p), which is ffraight, and placed longitudinally in the middle fore-part of the nofe. The fecond and third are the lateral nafal {q), which are at each fide of the nofe, and almofl parallel to the firfl; future. Each of the tvi^o lacrymal Is almofl; femicircular, and is placed round the lacrymal groove. The fixth and feventh are the internal orbltar : each of which is extended obliquely from the middle of the lower fide of an orbit to the edge of its bafe. The two external orbltars are continued, each from the end of the internal orbitar to the under and fore-part of the cheek. The tenth is the myftachial, which reaches only from the (o) Vander J^inden. Mcdicin. phyfiolog. cap. 13. art. a. § 10.—Rolfinc. Anat. lib. a. cap. 25.—Schenk. Schol. part. feft. ult. par. a. cap. J. (/>) Nafalis rtfta. (?) Nafalis obliqua.Cliap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 103 the lower part of the feptum narium to between the two middle dentes incifores. The longitudinal palate future (r) ftretches from the middle of the foremoll teeth through the middle of all the palate. ' The tranfverfe palate future (j) runs acrofs the palate, near- er the back than the fore part of it. Each of the two palato.maxillary is at the back-part of the fide of each noflrils. The fifteenth is the fpinous, which is in the middle of the lower part of the noftrils. This may perhaps be rather thought a double fcindylefis. The connedlion of the ofla fpongiofa to the fide of each noftril, is fo much by a membrane in young l'ubje£ls, by a fort of hook and afterwards by concretion or union of fubftance in adults, that I did not know well how to rank it : But if any chufes to call it a future, the addition of two tranfverfe nnfalfutures may be made to thofe above named. The futures of the face (formerly called harmom<e) have not fuch confpicuous indentations as thofe of the Ikull ; the bones here not having fubftance enough for form- ing large indentations, and there being lefs necelfity for fecurity againll external injuries, or any internal pro- truding force, than in the cranium. Thefe futures often difappear in old people, by the bones running into each other; which can do little prejudice, becaufe the princi- pal ufe of die bones being fo numerous here, is to allow them to be extended into a pr9per form. It is evident, from the manner of the conjunftion of' thefe bones, that they can have no motion, except in com- mon with the cranium. The purpofes which this pile of bones ferves, will be (hown in the defeription which I am going to give of each pf them. OSSA (r) Laquearis, palataria rcila. (d Arcuata, palatina poflica.Part I, 104 OF THE SKELETON. tilages I OSSA NASI. Ossa nas^, fo named frdiYi their filuation at the root of the nofe, are each of an irregular oblong fquare figure, being broadefl; at their lower end, narrowed a little higher than their middle, and becoming fomewhat larger at tlic top, where they are ragged and thicked, and have a cur-, vature forwards, that their connexion with the frontal hone might be dronger Thcfe bones are convex exter- nally, and thereby better refid any violence from without j and they are concave internally, for enlarging the cavity of the nofe. The lower edge of thefe bones is unequal, and is dretch- cd outwards and backwards, to join the cartilages of the nodrils.—Their anterior fide Is thick, efpecially above, and unequal, that their conjunftion to each other might be ftronger •, and a fmall rifing may be remarked on their in- ner edge, where they are fudained by the feptum narium, —Their poderior fide, at its upper half, has externally a depredion, where it is a little overlapped by the maxillary bones, while its lower half covers thefe bones : By which contrivance, they do not yield eafily to prefliire applied to their fore-part or fides. A fniall bole is frequently to be obferved on their external furface, into which two,, three, or four holes, which appear internally, terminate for the ttanfmifllon of fmall veins : fometimes tire holes go on farther than the cancelli of the bones. ' The nafal bones are firm and folid, with very few cells of cancelli in them ; the thin fubdance of which they con- fid not requiring much marrow. They are joined above to the frontal bone, by the mid- ^ die of the tranfverfe future; behind, fo the maxillary bones, by the lateral nafal futures} below, to the car-BONES OF THE HEAD. Chap. II. 105 tllages of the nofe;—before, to one another, by the anterior nafal future;—internally, to the feptum narlum. The life of thefe bones is to cover and defend the Voot of the nofe. In an infant the nafal bones are proportionally ftiorter, and lefs thick at their upper part, than in an adult; but are Otherwifc complete. OSSA UNGUIS, OR LACRYMALIA. Ossa unguis, or lacrymalia, are fo named, becaufe their figure and magnitude are nearly like thofe of a nail of one’s finger, and becaufe the tears pafs upon them into the nofe. Their external furface is compofed of two fmooth conca- vities and a middle ridge. The deprejfion behind forms a fmall fhare of the orbit for the eye-ball to move on j and the one before is a deep perpendicular canal, or fojfa^ larger above than below, containing part of the lacrymal fac and duft. This is the part that ought to be pierced in the great operation for the fiftula lacrymalis.- This folTa of the bone is cribriform, or has a great number of fmall holes through it, that the filaments for the membrane which lines it, infi- nuating themfelves into thefe holes, might prevent a fepara- tion of the membrane, and fecure the bone in its natural fi- tuation. The ridge between thefe two cavities of the 09 unguis is the proper boundary of the orbit at its internal can- thus 5 and beyond which furgeons Ihould not proceed back- wards In performing operations here The internal or po- fterior furface of this bone confifts of a furrow in the middle of two convexities. The fubjlance of the os unguis is as thin as paper, and very brittle j which is the reafon that thofe bones are often Voj.. f. O wantingio6 OF THE SKELETON. Parti. wanting in flceletons, and need little force to pierce them in living fubjects. ' _ Each of thofe bones is joined, above, to the frontal bone, by part of the tranlverfe future;—behind to the os planum of the ethmoid bone, by the fame future;—before, and be- low, to the maxillary bone, by the lacrymal future. In- ternally, the ofla unguis cover fome of the fmus ethmoidales ; nay, are really continuous with the bony lamellae which make up the fides of thefe cells; fo that they are as much ' part of the ethmoid bone as tlie ofla plana. Thefe unguiform bones compofe the interior internal parts of the orbits, lodge a fhare of the lacrymal fac and du£l, and cover the ethmoid cells. Their fituation and tender fub- flance make a rafli operator in danger-of dedroying a confider-? able fliare of the organ of fmelling, when he is performing the operation of the fiflula lacrymalis ; but when thefe bone§ are hurt, they cafl. off without much difficulty, and confe- quently the wound is foon cured, unlefs the patient labours under a general cacoethes, or there is a predifpofition in the bones to caries ; in which cafe, a large train of bad fymptoms follow, or at bed the cure proves tedious. The bones are fplly formed in a new-born child. OSSA MALARUM. / Ossa Malarum (/) was the name given by Celfus, as was already remarked, to all the upper jaw, but is now appro- priated to the prominent fquarc bones which form the cheek on each fide. Before, their furface is convex and fmooth; backward, it is unequal and concave, for lodging part of the crotaphyte mufcles. The four angles of each of thefe bones have been reckoned procelfes (/) Jiigalia vcl xygomatica, bypopia, fubocularia.BONES OF THE HEAD. Cha’3. ir. O 2 ture i procefTes by fome authors. The one at the external can- thus of the orbit, called the fuperior orhitar procefs, is the longefl; and thickeft. The fecond terminates near the middle of the lower edge of the orbit in a (liarp point, and is named the inferior orhitar procefs. The third, pla- ced near the lower part of the cheek, and thence called - inaxiUary, is the (hot-ttfi:, and neareft to a right angle.—— The fourth, which is called zygomatic, becaule it i3 ex- tended backwards to the zygoma of the temporal bone, ends in a point, and has one'fide ftraight and the other Hoping Between the two orbitar angles there is a con- cave arch, which makes about a third of the external cir- cumference of the orbit, from which a fifth procefs is ex- tended backwards within the orbit, to form near one third of that cavity; and hence it may be called the internal or- bitar procefs.—From the lower edge of each of the ofla malarum, which is between the maxillary and zygomatic piocelTes, the mafleter mufcle takes its origin; and from the exterior part of the zygomatic procefs, the mufculus % diftortor oris rifes j in both which places the furface of the bone is rough. < On the external furface of each cheek bone, one or more fmall holes are commonly found, for the tranfmifiion of fmall nerves or blood-vcfllds from, and fometimes into, tlie orbit.— Ou the internal furface are the-holes for the paflage of the nutritious vefiels of thefe bones. A notch on the outfide of the internal orbitar procefs of each of thefe bones alfifts to form the great flit common to this bone and to the fphe- noid, maxillary, and palate bones. The fubjlance of th.efe bones is, in proportion to their bulk, thick, hard, and folid, with fpme cancelli, ' Each of the oflii malarum is joined, by its fuperior and internal orbitar procell'es, to the os front is, arid to the or- bitar procefs of, the fpliengid bone, by the tranfverfe fu-OF THE SKELETON. Part I. io8 ture; by the edge between the internal and inferior orbitar procefles, to the maxillary bone, by the internal orbitar fu- ture ; by the fide between the maxillary and inferior orbitar procefs, again to the maxillary bone, by the external obitar future; by the zygomatic procefs, to the os temporum, by the zygomatic future. The cheek-bones are entire, and fully ofTified in all their parts* in infants. OSSA MAXILLARIA SUPERIORA. Ossa Maxillaria Superiora are the largeft bones, and «onftitute the far greater part, of the upper jaw, which has appropriated the name of maxillaria to them. The figure of one of them, or of the two when joined, is fo irregular, that words can fcarce give an idea of it. The procejfes of each os maxillare may be reckoned feven. The firft is the long nafal one at Its upper and fore-part, which is broad below, and turns fmaller as it rifes upwards, to make the fide of the nofe. At the root of this a tranfverfe ridge may be obferved within the noftrils, which fupports the fore part of the upper edge of the os fpongiofum inferius. The fecond is produced backwards and outwards, from the root of the nafal procefs, to form the lower fide of the orbit; and therefore may be called orbitar. Tlie edge of this orbitar procefs, and the ridge of the nafal one, which is continued from it, make a confiderable portion of the external circum- ference of the orbit. From the proper orbitar procefs, a very rough triangular furface is extended downwards and out- wards, to be connedbed to the cheekbone; and therefore may be called the molar procefs, from the lowefl; protuberant part of which fome fhare of the mafleter mufcle tahes its rife. Behind the orbitar procefs, a large tuberofity or bulge of the boneChap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 109 bone appears, which is efteemed the fourth procefs. On the Internal part of this we often meet with a ridge, almofl of the fame height with that in the nafal procefs, which runs tranfverfely, and is covered by a fimilar ridge of the palate- bone, on which the back-part of the upper edge of the 09 fponglofum inferius rells. The convex back part of this tuberofity is rough for the origin of part of the external ptery- goid mul’cle {«); and more internal is fcabrous, where the palate and fphenoid bones are joined to it.—That fpongy pro- tuberance (a:) at the lower circumference of this bone, where the fockets for the teeth are formed, is reckoned the fifth. - The fixth is the horizontal plate, which forms the greater part of the bafe of the noftrils, and roof of the mouth : Its upper furface, which belongs to the noftrils, is very fmooth; but the other below is arched and rough, for the ftronger , adhefion of the membrane of the mouth, which is ftretched upon it; and in chewing, fpeaking, &c. might otherwife be liable to be feparated. The feventh rifes like a fpine from, the inner edge of the laft, and forms a fmall part of the par- tition of the noftrils. The deprejjlom in each maxillary bone are, i. A finuofi- ty behind tike orbitar procefs, made by the temporal muf- cle. 2. A pit immediately before the fame procefs, where the origin of the mufculus elevator labiorum communis, and elevator labii fuperioris, with a branch of the fifth pair of nerves, are lodged fecurely. 3. The hollow arch of the palate. 4. The femicircular great notch, or entry to the lower part of the noftiils, between the root of the nafaJ procefs and fpine of the palate plate.—-Below this, the fore part of. the bone is flatted, or fometimes hollowed, by the mufculus depreflbr labii fuperioris. 5. Sockets for the teeth (y): The number of thefe fockets is uncertain; for (») Albin. dc ofllb. § 79, 0) ixnirwi, Alveoli, folTul*, mortaxioh, fracna, loc^i, cave, lo* cnUmcoU. 1lio OF THE SKELE,TON. Part i. for the fame number of teeth is not In all people, and the four farthcft teeth of each fide in each jaw vary greatly in their number of roots; and when the teeth 'of a living perfon fall out or are taken away, the fockets fill up with an cfleous net work, which becomes folid afterwards. 6. The lacrymal folia in the nafal procefs, which aflifts the os unguis to form a paflage for the lacrymal duft. The part of the bone forming this fofla is fo firm and ftrong, that a furgeon can fcarcely perforate it with the ordinary inftru- ments for the fiftula lacrymalis j and therefore ought to a- void it in doing this operation. Immediately on the out- fide of this, there is a finall deprefiion, from which the in- > ferior or lefler oblique mufcle of the eye has its origin (z). 7. The canal on the upper part of the great tuberofity within the orbit, which is almoft a complete hole •, in this a branch of the fuperior maxillary nerve pafles. Befides thefe, the fuperior furface of the great bulge is concave, to receive the under part of the eye. Immediately above the tranfverfe ridge in the nafal procefs, a fmall hollow is formed by the os fpongiofum. In fome fubje£ls, the nkfal procefs has a fmall round pit above the lacrymal du£I, where the little tendon or ligament of the orbicular mufcle of the: eye lids is inferted. It is this tendon, and not the tendon of the larger oblique mufcle of the eye, which there is fome hazard of cutting in the operation of the fiilula lacry- malis. ' The hdes of this bone are two proper and two common, which are always to be found j befides feveral others, whofe magnitude, number, &c. are uncertain. The firlt of the proper is the external orbitar, immediately belov^ the orbit, by w'hich the infra-orbitar branch of the fecond branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and a fmall artery, come out, after having pafled in the canal, at the botton'i / of (as) Winflow, Expofition anatomique des os fees. § 276.ii; Chap. IE BONES OF THE HEAD. of the orbit, defctibecl nurnb. 7. of the clcpreflions. This hole is often double, and that when tire nerve has happen- ed to fplit before it has efcaped from the bone. The fe- cond is the foramen incifivum, jult behind the fore teeth; whii h, at its under part, is one irregular hole common to both the maxillary bones when they are joined ; but, as it afeends, foon divides Into two, three, or fometimes more holes; feme of which open into each noftril. Through them fmall arteries and veins, and a twig of the fccond branch of the fifth pair of nerves, pafs, and make a communication between, or join the lining coats of the nofe and moufh. In fome fubjecls, Steno’s du£l may be traced fome length on the fide of thefe paffages next to the nofe, and fmall orifices may be obferved opening into the mouth. The firft common hole is that which appears'at the inner fide of the back part of the tuberolity and of the fockets of the teeth; and is formed by a fofla in this bone, and a cor- refpopding one in the os palati: through it a nerve, which Is a branch of the fecond branch of the fifth pair, runs to the palate. The other common hole is the great flit in the out- fide of the orbit, deferibed already as the fecond commoa hole of the fphenoid bone. On the nafal procefs holes may be often obferved for the pafTage of vefiels to the fubftance of the bones; and, at the back part of each tuberofity, fevcral foramina are placed, for the tranfmiflion of nerves to the cavity within : but thefe are uncertain. All the body of the maxillary bone Is hollow, and leaves a large ftms like the frontal and fphenoid, which is com- monly, but unjuftly, called antrum Highmorianum (n). ^ When the os maxillare Is fingle, or feparated from all the Other bones of a fkelcton, its antrum appears to have a large («) Gens,OF THE SKELETON. Part I. ri2 and Obferv. vol 5. art. 30, large aperture into the noftrils; but, in a recent fubjeft, it is fo covered at its back-part by the palate-bone, in the middle by the os fpongiofum inferius, before by a ftrong membrane, that one or fometimes two holes, fcarcely fo large as a crow-quill, are only left at the upper part; which, after a fhort winding procefs, open into the nof- trils betwee-n the two olTa fpongiofa. At the bottom of this cavity, we may often obferve fome protuberances, in which the fmall points of the roots of the teeth are con- tained (^). This cavern and the fockets of the teeth arc often divided by the interpofition only of a very thin bony plate, which is liable to be eroded by acrid matter collec- ted in the antrum, or to be broke in drawing a tooth (r). The fymptoms of a colle6lion of matter here naturally led ns to the pra£lice of pulling out the teeth, and piercing through this plate into the antrum, to procure an evacuation of the colle£led matter; by which confiderable fet^fice is fre- quently done {d). The maxillary fmufes have the fame ufes as the frontal and fphenoidal; and the fituatlon of the fmufes is fuch, that the liquor drilling from them, from the cells of the ethmoid and palate bones, and from the lacrymal duds, may always moif- ten all the parts of the membrane of the nares in the diffe- rent fituations of the head. Though the membranes which line the frontal, fphe- noidal, and maxillary fmufes, are continuations of the one •which covers the bones within the nofe; yet they arc much thinner than it is, and have fo much fmaller veffels, that the injedion which makes the membrane of the nofe red all over, fills only fome few velfels of the maxillary fi- nufes, and is fcarcely obferved in the frontal and fphenoi- dal. (i) Highmore, DifquLf. Anat. lib. 3. part. 4. cap. I. (f) Highmore, ibid. {J) Cowper in Drake’s Anthropol. book. 3. chap. 10. -Jdedical EflawiCliap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. ”3 dal. Are not the larger veflels intended for a more plen- tiful fecretion of a vifcid liquor to defend the membrane from the efFefIs of the perflatus which is conftantly through the nofe Are not the .membranes which have the fmall- eft veflels, cateris paribusy the moft fenfible ? Do not ma- ny phenomena of fmelling, inflammations of thefe parts^ megrim, polypi, &c. depend on this ftru£iure of the men- branes ? The fubjlance of the oflii maxillaria Is compa£l and firm, except at the inferior procefl'es, in which the teeth are lodged, where it Is very fpongy. The maxillary bones are joined above, by the upper ends of their nafal procefl'es to the os frontis, by the tranfverfe future ;—at the fides of thefe procefl'es, to the oflir unguis, by the lacrymal futures ; to the nafal bones, by the late- ral nafal futures ; by their orbitar procefl'es, to the cheek- bones, by the external orbitar future; by the internal fides of the internal orbitar procefl'es, to the olTa plana, by part of the ethmoidal future ; by the back part of the tuberofities, to the palate-bones, by the futurse palato- niaxillares;—by the pofterior edges of their palatine lamel- Ite, to the olTa palati, by the tranfverfe palate future ;—by their nafal fpines, to the vomer, by the fpinous future ; by their focket, to, the teeth, by the gomphofis by the in- ternal edge of the palate-plate, to one another, by the lon- gitudinal palate future, on the upper and fore-part of which a furrow is left for receiving the cartilage which forms the partition of the nollrils ;—between the fore pare of the noflrils and mouth, to each other, by the myfta- chial future fomecimes they are connedted to the oflh fpongiofa inferlora, by a plain concretion or union of fub- ftance. Thefe bones form the greater part of the nofe and of the roof of the mouth, and a confiderable fliare of the VoL. I. P orbit/114 Part r. OF THE SKELETON. orbfit. They contain fixteen teeth, give rife to mufcles, tranfminion to nerves, &c. as mentioned in the defcription of their feveral parts. In each of the maxillary bones of a new-born child, the external orbitar procefs is hollow, with remarkable holes in it; there are five fockets for the teeth, of which the two pofterior are very large, and, when divided by a fecond crofs partition, make the number of fockets fix (e). The palate-plate is cribriform about the middle. The great tuberofity is not formed ;—inftead of the antrum, there k only an oblong deprefllon at the fide of the nollrils. OSSA PALATI. Ossa palati are commonly defcribed as two fmall fquarc bones, at the back-part of the palate or roof the mouth, though they are of much greater extent, being continued ' up the back-part of the noftrils to the orbit {/). Each palate- bone may therefore be divided into four parts, the palate fquare-bane, the pterygoid procefs, nafal lamella, and orbitar procefs. The fqunre-hone is unequally concave, for enlarging both the mouth and cavity of the nofe. The upper part of its internal edge rifes^in a fpine, after the fame manner as the palate-plate of the maxillary bone does, to be joined with the vomer. Its anterior edge is unequally ragged, for its firmer connection with the palate procefs of the os maxil- lare. The internal edge is thicker than the reft, and of an equal furface, for its conjunCUon with its fellow of the other fide. Behind, this bone is fomewhat in form of a crefeent, («) Albin. Ofteogen, tab. j. fig. 4J. Ungebav. <Ie dtntit. fecund. jun. § I. (y) Euftach. tab. 47. fig. r. 3. 6. 7. 8. Vidus Vidius, de Anat. lib. a. cap. a. cxplicat. tab. 61 fig. i9.'i^~Winflovr, Memoifes dc I’acad- d«s fciences, I'jxo,Chap. IJ. BONES OF THE HEAD. crefcent, and thick, for the firm conne£lion of the velum pendulum palati; the Internal point being produced back- wards, to afford origin to the pidato-flaphylinus or azy- gos mufcle. This fquare bone is well diftinguiflied from the pt.erygoid procefs by a perpendicular folfa, which applied to fuch another in the maxillary bone, forms a pafTige for the palatine branch of the fifth pair of nerves *, and by another fmall hole behin this, through which a twig of the fame nerve p.ilTes. The piirygoiH practfs is fomewhat triangular, having a broad bafe, and ending fmaller above. The back-part of this procefs has three folTse formed in it; the two lateral receive the ends of the two plates of the fphenoid bone, that arc commonly compared to a bat’s wing •, the middle foffa makes up a part of what is commonly called the fajja ptcrygoidca i the fore-fide of this palatine pterygoid procefs is an irregular concave, where it receives the back-part of the great tuberofity of the maxillary bone. Frequently feveral fmall holes may be obferved in this triangular procefs, parti- cularly one near the middle of its bafe, which a little above communicates with the common and proper holes of this bone already mentioned. The nafal lamella of this bone is extremely thin and brit- tle, and rlfes upwards from the tipper fide of the external edge of the fquare bone, and from the narrow extremity of the pterygoid procefs •, where it is fo weak, and at the fame time fo firmly fixed to the maxillary bone, as to be very liable to be broken in feparating the bones. From the part where the plate rifes, it runs up broad on the infide of the tuberofity of the maxillary bone, to form a confi- derable fliare of the fides of the maxillary finus, and to clofe up the fpace between the fphenoid and the great bulge of the maxillary bone, where there would otherwife be a large flit opening into the noflrils {g). From the middle P 2 internal (») Albin. de effib. § 88.116 Part I. OF THE SKELETON. internal fide of this thin plate, a crofs ridge, placed on fuch another of the maxillary bone, is extended ; on it the back- part of the os fpongiofum inferins refts. Along the outfule of this plate, the perpendicular fofla made by the palate-uervc is obftrvable. At the upper part of this nafal plate, the palate bene di- vides into /wo procejft's, which 1 have already named orlitar ; betvi'een which and the body of the fphenoid bene, that hole is formed which I mentioned as the lall of the holes common to the fphenoid bone. Sometimes this hole is ■wholly formed in the os palati, by a crofs plate going from the one orbitar procefs to the other. A nerve, artery, and vein, belonging to the noftrils, pafs here.—'The anterior of the two orbitar procefles is the larged, and has its fore- part contiguous to the back-part of the maxillary finus, and its upper furface appears in the bottom of the orbit, behind the back-part of the os maxillare and planum. It has cells behind, refembling thofe of the ethmoid bone, to which it is contiguous ; it is placed on the aperture of the finus fphenoidalis, fo as to leave only a round hole at its upper fore-part. The other part of the orbitar procefs is extended along the Internal fide of the upper back-part of the maxillary tuberofity, the bafe of the fphenoid bone, between the root of the procefius azygos and the pterygoid procefs. The palate fquare part of this plate-bone, and its pterygoid procefs, are firm and ftrong, with fome cancelli j but the nafal plate and orbitar procefles are very thin and brittle. The palate-bones are joined to the maxillary, by the fore- edge of the palate fquare bone, by the tranfverfe palate fu- ture : By their thin nafal plates, and part of their or- bitar procefles, to the fame bones, by the palato-maxlllarcs futures:—By their pterygoid procefles, and back-part of the nafal plates, to the alae vefpertilionum, by the fphe- noid Iir7 BONES OF THE HEAD. Chap. II. nold future : By the tranfv'erfe ridges of the nafal pa- lates, to the ofla fpongiofa inferiora, by contafl ; hence there frequently is an intimate union of the fubftance of thefe bones in old fkulls: By the orbitar proceflcs, to the olTa plana and cellula: ethmoidae, by the ethmoid future: -To the body of the fphenoid bone, by the fphenoid fu- ture : By the internal edge of the fquare bones, to each other by the longitudinal palate future;—and by their nafal fpines, to the vomer, by the fpinous future. The palate-bones form part of the palate, ncArils, orbits, and foffie pterygoideae ; and they cover part of the' fmus maxillares, fphenoldales, and ethmoidei. Thefe bones arc very complete in a new-born infant, the nafal plates being then- thicker and ftronger than in adults ; but the orbitar proceflcs have not the ceils which appear in the bones of adults. When we are acquainted with the hlflory of thefe bones, the reafon is evident, why the eyes are fo much affected in ulcers of the palate, as to be often attended with blindnefs, which frequently happens in an ill-managed lues venerea; or why, oii the ether hand, the palate fuffers from an se- gylops {h). OSSA TURBIN AT A. Ossa Turbinata, or fpovg'wfa biferiora^ refemble the fuperior oflii fpongiofa in fliape and fubftance, but have their anterior and upper edges contiguous to the tranfverfe ridges of the nafal proceflcs of the maxillary and palate- bones From their upper ftraight edge, two fmall pro- cefles ftand out: The pofterior, which is the broadell, de- feends to cover fome of the antrum Highmorianum ; the anterior rifes up to join the os unguis, and to make part of the laerymal du£t. Below , (4) Hoffman, in Ephemerid. Germ, cent, i. and %. obf, ijj.OF THE SKELETON. ii8 Parti., Below the fpongy bones already mentioned, there are fometimes two others, one in each noftril, which feem to be a produ£lion‘ of the fides of the maxillary finus turned downwards (/). When this third fort of fpongy bones is found, the middle one of the three in each noftril is, the largeft, and the lowed is the fmalleft.- Befides all thefe, there are often feveral other fmall bones ftanding out into the noftrils, that, from their fliape, might alfo deferve the name of turbinata: but are uncertain in their bulk, fituation, and number (>^). The names of thefe bones fufliciently declare their fpon- gy fubftance, which has no firm external plate covering it. They are joined to the ofla maxillaria, palati, and un- guis, in all fubjefls, by a firm union of fubftance ; and as this often happens in people of no great age, fome au- thors (/) are of opinion, that they Ihould be efteemed part of the palate-bones *, others {m) think, that fince their upper edge is continued by a plate to a part of the os ethmoldes, they ought to be efteemed a part of this bone. Their ufe is, to ftraighten the noftrils, to afford a large furface for extending the organ of finelllng, to cover part of the antra maxillaria, and to alfift in forming the under part of the lacrymal du£bs, the orifices of which into the nofe are concealed by thefe bones. The olTa turbinata are nearly complete in a new-born infant. VOMER. Vomer, or bone refembling a plough-ftiare, is the thir- teenth of the upper jaw, and is without a fellow, forming the lower and back-parts of the partition of the nofe («). The (i) Cowperin Drake’s Anthropolog. book 3. chap. 10. (i) Santorin. Obfervat. Anatomicae, cap. 5. fefl. 9. (l) Id. ib. cap. 5. feft. 7. (m) Hunaulcl, in Memoircs de I’acad. dcs fcicnces, I73°- (n) Columb. dc rc anat. lib. I. cap. 8. Fallop. Obfervat. Anatom.(Chap-II. BONES OF THE HE AD. irp The figure of this bone is an irregular rhomboid. Its Ifides are flat and fmooth. Its poflerior edge appears in an coblique dire£Iion at the back part of the noftrils. The up- fper one is firmly united to the bafe of the fphenoid bone, rand to the nafal plate of the ethmoid ; and, when it can tbe got feparated, is hollow for receiving the proceflus azy- ggos of the fphenoid. The anterior edge has a long furrow i:in it, where the middle cartilage of the nofe enters. The Mower edge is firmly united to the nafal fpines of the max- ilillary and palate bone. Thefe edges of this bone are mucli t thicker than its middle, which is as thin as the thineft paper ; bby which, and the firm union, or conne£liqn this bone has rabove and below, it can very feldom be feparated entire in tadults : but in a child it is much more eafily feparated entire, sand its ftrufture is more diftindly feen 5 wherefore I (hall (examine all its parts in fuch a fubjeff. Its fituation is not always perpendicular, but often inclined aand bended to one fide, as well as the nafal plate of the eth- anoid bone. The vomer is convex at its upper part; and then is idlraight, as it is extended downwards and forwards, where lit is compofed of two plates ; the edges of which have, a ;great number of fmall prbeefTes, difpofed fomewhat like !the teeth of a faw, but more irregularly, and feveral of i’.them are refleded back. Between thefe plates a deep fofla is left, which, as far as to the top of the curvature, is wide land has ftrong fides, for receiving the proceflus azygos of 'the fphenoid bone. Beyond the arch forwards, the fofla i.s gradually narrower and fliallower to the point of the oone, receiving for fome way the nafal lamella ethmoidea ; which, after the ofTification is complete, is fo clofely u* ■nited to the vomer by the little procefles piercing its fub- Mance, as to prevent any feparation ; on which account it has jeen efteemed by fome authors {0) a part of the ethmoid bone. <c) Lieuuud, fiffais aaatomiciues, fcdl, i, l’c»J ethmoije.Part I. OF THE SKELETON. 120 "bone. The nilddle cartilage of the nofe fills up what re- mains of the fofla at its fore-part. The pofttrior edge of the vomer, which appears above the back-part of the pa- late-bones, is broader above; but as it defeends forwards, becomes thinner, though it is ftlll Lolid and firm. The lower edge of this b.)ne, which reds on the nafal fpine of the palate and maxillary bones, has a little furrow on each fide of a fmall middle ridge, anfwering to the fpines of the bones of dillcrent Tides, and the interftices between them. This and the upper edge meet in the pointed fore end of this bone. The body of the vomer has a fmooth and folid furface, but thin fubftance ; and towards its fides, where it is thic- kefi:, fomc cancelli may be obferved when the bone is bro- ken. It is joined above to the fphenoid and ethmoid bones, and to the middle cartilage of the nofe by fchindyleGs: below, to the maxillary and palate bones by the fpinous future. . The vomer divides the noftrils ; enlarges the organ of fmelling, by allowing place for expanding the membrane of the nofe on its Odes ; and fuftains the palate-plates of the maxillary and palate-bones, which otherwife might be in hazard of being prelTed into the noftrils : while the vomer is fecured from fhuffling to one fide or other by the double fchindylefis, by which it is joined to the bones above and below. Thus we have now defcrlbed all the bones which com- pofe the upper jaw, except the teeth, which are fo much like thofe of the lower jaw, that I choofe to make one de- feription ferve for both, in which their differences fliall be remarked, after the fecond part of the face, (i. e.) the lower jaw, is examined j becaufe the ftrudure of the teeth(Cbap.n. BONES OF THE HEAP. 121 I teeth cannot be well underftood, until the cafe In which they are fet is explained. l MAXILLA INFERIOR. Maxilla inferior (/>), the lower ja,w, confifts only of I one moveable bone, and fixteen teeth incafcd in it. This bone, which is fomewhat of the figure of the ' Greek letter v, is fituated at the lower part of the face, fo : as its convex middle part Is forward, and its legs are I ftretched back. It is commonly divided into the chinj fides, and procelTes. The chin is the middle fore-part; I the extent of which to each fide is marked on the exter- nal furface by the holes obfervable there, and internally 1 by the beginning of an oblique ridge. Beyond thefe the j-ftdes appear; and are continued till the bone, by bend- ing upwards, begins to form tht procejfcs. ^ .On the fore-part of the chin^ a tranfverfe ridge ap- ] pears In the middle ; on each fide of which the mufeuli I quadratic or depreflbres, and the levatores labii inferi- I oris, deprefs the bone : And below thefe prints a fmall ri- I fing may be obferved, where the deprelTores commence. • On the back-part of the chin, fometimes three, always 1 two, fmall protuberances appear in the middle. To the 1 uppermoft, when It is feen, the frienum of the tongue is I connefted. From the middle one, the mufeuli genio-glofli I rife; and from the loweft, the genio-hyoidei have their ori- ; gin. Below the lafl, we fee two rough finuofities formed by I the digaftric mufcles. At the lower and fore-part of the external furface of > each ftde of the lower jaw, a fmall eminenefe may be obfer- 1 ved, where the deprelTor lablorum communis rifes. Near the upper edge of the fide a ridge runs lengthwife, to VoL. I.‘ which. (/>) Vwi cixyav, Mandibula, factes.OF THE SKELETON. Part I. 122 which the under-part of the mufculus buccinator is con- ne6led. Internally^ towards the upper edge of each fide another ridge appears, from which the mylo-hyoidei have their origin, and to which the internal membrane of the gums adheres. In the upper edge of both chin and Jides, are a great ma- ny deep pits or fockets, for receiving the roots of the teeth. The number and magnitude of thcfe fockets are various, becaufe of the different number, as well of the teeth them- felves, as of their roots, in different people, Thefe fock- ets in this lower jaw, as well as in the upper one, are lefs deep as old age comes on: when freed from the teeth by any means, they are fome time after filled up with an offeous net-work, which at laft becomes entirely folid, and as Dnooth as any other part of the bone; fo that, in a great many ' old jaws, we cannot obfcrve a veftige of the fockets : but then the jaw becomes lefs, and muck narrower (^r). Hence \Ve may know why the chin and nofe of edentulous people are much nearer than before the teeth were loft; while their lips either fall in towards their mouth, or ftand prominent -forwards. When new teeth are protruded, new fockets are formed (;■). The lower edge of the chin and fides is fmooth and equal, and is commonly called the bafe of the lower jaw.' '^I'he ends of the bafe, where the jaw turns upwards, are called its anglesthe external furface of each of which has feveral inequalities upon it, where the maf- fctcr niufcle is inferted •, as the internal furface alfo has, where the pterygoiJeus internus is inferted, and a ligament extended from the ftyloid procefs of the temporal bone is fixed. The procejfcs are two on each fide. The anterior ftiarp thin coronoid ones have the crotaphite mufcles infer- ted into them. The pofterior proceffes or condyles (j) terminate (y) Vefal. Anat. lib. i, cap. iq. (r) Fallop. Obfcrv. Anat. 0) Articulatorii.Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. 123 terminate in an oblong fmooth head, fupported by a cer- vix. The heads, whofe greatefl; length is tranfvcrfe, and whofe convexity is turned forwards, are tipped with a car- tilage, as the articulated parts of all other moveable bones are. The fore-part of the root and neck of thefe condy- loid procefles are a little hollow and rough where the ex- ternal pteregoid mufcles are infertcd. The holes of the lower jaw are two on each fide ; one at the root of the procefles internally, where a large branch of the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves enters with an artery, and a vein returns. A fmall fliarp procefs fre- quently juts out backwards from the edge at the fore-part of this bole, to which a ligament extended from the tem- poral bone is fixed [t) which favCs the nerve and veflels from being too much preflTcd by the pterygoid mufcles.— From the lower fide of this hole, either a fmall fuperficial canal or furrow defcends, where a branch of the nerve is lodged, in its way to the mylo-hyoideus inufc^ and fub- lingual gland {«). The other hole is external, at the con- fines of the chin, where branches of the nerve and veflels come out. The canal between thefe two holes is formed in fhe middle of the fubftance of the bone, and is pierced by a great number of fmall holes, by which the nerves and blood-veflels of the cancelli and teeth pafs. This canal is continued a little farther than the external hole at the chin, —On account of the veflbls and nerves in the lower jaw, fra£l;ures of it may be attended with dangerous fymptoms. The ftirface of the lower jaw is hard and firm, except at the fpongy fockets, where, however, it is ftrongcr than the upper jaw. Its internal [ubjlance is cellular, without any folid partition between the cancelli in its middle. At the bafe, efpecially of the chin, where t^iis bone is moH 2 expofcfj (t) We'itbrecht. Syncl.efmolog. fig. 3a. i. Cvj Palfya. anat. chirur. traite 5, chap. 6„124 OF THE SKELETON./ Parti. expofed to injuries, the folid Tides of it are thick, compaft, and hard. Ihe lower jaw generally receives the root of fixteen teeth into its fockets, by gomphofts; and its condyloid pro- ceflcs covered with a cartilage, are articulated with the tem- poral bones, in a manner that is not commonly right de- fcribed : for, as was already mentioned in the defcription of the temporal bones, not only the fore-part of the cavity between the zygomatic, auditory, and vaginal procefles, but alfo the adjoining tubercle at the root of the zygomatic procefs of each os temporum, is covered with a fmooth cartilage for this articulation. Here alfo an intermediate moveable cartilage is placed ; which being thin in the mid- dle, and thick at the edges, is concave on both (ides i and is connefted fo firmly by ligaments to each condyle, as to follow the motions of the condyle; and fo loofcly to the temporal bone, as readily to change its fituation from the cavity to the tubercle, and to return again; while the common ligament of the articulation affords fpace enough for fuch a change of place backwards and forwards; but like other ligaments of the joints by ginglimus, is ftrong and fhort at the fides, to confine the lateral morions. When, therefore, the teeth of both jaws coincide, the condyles &re lodged fecurely in the temporal cavities; but their motions to either fides muft be confined both by the firmnefs of the ligaments and the rifing brims which are on each fide of the cavities.—When the jaw is brought di- re£Hy forwards, the condyle and intermediate cartilages defccnd and advance forwards upon the tubercles.—In this fituation, the lateral motions are a little more free than in the former one, from the want of rifing brims to flop the icondyles.—When the fore-teeth of the lower jaw are mo- ved forwards and to a fide, the condyle of the oppofije fide is either .advanced from the cavity to the tubercle, while ■ IBOl^ES OF THE HEAD. Chap. IT. 125 while the condyle of the fame fide remains in the cavity ; or, if both condyles are on the tubercles, when the jaw is moved obliquely to a fide, the condyle of the fide to which the motion is made Hides back from the tubercle to the ca- vity. When the mouth is opened by the defcent of the lower jfiw, the fore-par t of it, where the deprefling mufcles are fixed, is drawn backwards, as well as downwards, while rsfiftance is made to the angles moving backwards by the rnafleter and internal pterygoid mufcles, and at the fame time, the external pterygoid draws the condyles and their moveable cartilages forwards; and therefore, when the mouth is opened, the condyles are carried forwards upon the tubercles, and the axis of motion of the bone is a little above its angles. But in this fituation there is lefs refin- ance, than in any other, to the condyles luxating forwards ; a difeafe which feldom happens, except when people are gaping too wide ; and therefore the common practice of nurfes, who fupport the jaw of infants when they are yawn- ing, is reafonable—In chewing, there is a fucceffion of the motions above deferibed (at). Here a general remark may be made, that wherever moveable cartilages are found in joints, either the articu- lated bones are of fuch a figure, or fo joined and fixed by their ligaments, that little motion would be allowed with- out fuch cartilages •, or elfe fome motions are neceflary to the right ufe of the member, which the form of the arti- culation would not otherwife admit of. This will more fully appear after the other joints with fuch cartilages are deferibed. In a child born to the full time, the lower jaw is com- pofed of two bones, connedbed by a thin cartilage in the •middle of the chin, which gradually oflifies, and the two bones (k) For a more full account of tills articulation, vij. Edinburgh Me- dical Eflays and Obfei-v. vol. 1, art fi. an^vol, ill. art 13.—Memoirs de I’aQad. 'dfs fcicnccs, 1744.Part r. 126 OF THE SKELETON. bones Intimately unite.—In each of thefe bones there are five or fix fockets for teeth, as in the upper jaw. After I have thus deferibe^ the incafement of the teeth ; .the infertion of fo many mufcles of the tongue, and of the os hyoides; the connection of the membrane of the tongue to the maxillary bone, and the motions of this bone ; it is eafy to fee, that the lower jaw mull be a principal inftru- ment in manducation, deglutition, and fpeech. T H E T E E T H. The teeth are the hard white bodies placed in the fock- ets of both jaws. Their number is generally fixteen above and as many below; though fame people have more, others have fewer. The broad thick part of each tooth which appears with- out the focket, is the bafe or body (y).—The fmaller pro- cefles funk into the maxillae, are tlie roots or fangs ; which become gradually fmaller towards the end fartheft from the bafe, or are nearly conical; by which the furface of their fides divides the preflure made on the bafes, to prevent the foft parts, which are ar the fmall points of the fockets, to be hurt by fuch prelTure. At the place where the bafe en^s and the roots begin, there is generally a fmall circular depref- 'm Con, v/hich fome call the neck or collar. ! Without the grums the teeth are covered with no mem'» i- *= 1 Wane, and they are faid to have no proper pcrlolleum j| within the fockets; but that is fupplied by the reflected d membrane of the gums, which after a good inje£lion may i be evidently feen in a young fubje£lr, with the veflels from j/ it penetrating into the fubflance of the teeth ; and it may be difeovered in any tooth recently pulled, by macerating || It in water (2;). The adhefion of this membrane to I thefe ^ t (y) Coren*. (z) Convpei’s Aijat. Explic. tab, ay. fig. 9. lit. E, j(Chap. ir. BONES OF THE HEAD. 127 thefe roots is ftrengthened by the fmall furrows obfcrvable on them. Each tooth is compofed of its cortex or enamel, and an internal bony fubftance. The cortex has no cavity or place for marrow ; and is fo folid and hard, that laws or files can with difficulty make impreffion on it. It is thickefl upon the bafe, and gradually, as the roots turn fmaller, becomes thinner, but not proportionally to the difference of the fize of the bafe and roots. The fibres of this ena- mel are all perpendicular to the internal fubftance ; and are ftraight on the bafe, but at the fides are arched with a con- ve.'c part towards the roots {a); which makes the teeth re- fill the compreflion of any hard body between the jaws, with lefs danger of breaking thefe fibres, than if they had been fituated tranfverfely. The fpongy fockets in which the teeth are placed, likewife ferve better to prevent fuch an Injury than a more folid bafe would have done.—Notwithftanding the great hardnefs of this cortex, it is wafted by manducation. Hence the fliarp edges of fome teeth are blunted and made broad, while the rough furfaces of others are made fmooth and? flat, as people advance in life. The bony part of the teeth has its fibres running ftraight, according to the length of the teeth. When it is expofeft to the air, by the breaking or falling off of the hard cor- tex, Ic foon corrupts. And thence carious teeth are often all hollow within, when a very fmall hole appears only ex- ternally. The teeth have canals formed in their middle, wherein their nerves and blood-veffels are lodged ; which they cer- tainly need, being conftantly wafted by the attrition they are fubje£led to in manducation ; and for their furtlaer growth, not only after they firft appear, but even in adults ; as is evident when a tooth is taken out: for then the oppo- fiti , (a) Havel’s Ofteolog. Nor, dife. i.Part L 125 OF THE SKELETON. fite one becomes longer, and thofe on each fide of the empty focket turn broader; fo that when tlie jaws are brought together, it is fcarcely obfcrvable where the tooth is wanting The vefiels are eafily traced as long as they are in the large canal, but can fcarcely be obferved in their diflribution from that to the fubftance of the teeth of adults. Ruyfch (c) however affirms, that after injedlion he could trace the arteries into the hardell part of the teeth: And Leeuwen- hoek (t/j fufpe£l:ed the fibres of the cortex to be veflels. In children I have frequently injected the veffels of the teeth as far as their bafe ; ,and in fuch as are not entirely'offified, one can with a lucky injection fill fo many veflels as to make both the outfide and infide of the cortical part appear perfectly red. This plentiful fupply ofvelTels muft expofe the teeth to the fame diforders that.attack other vafcular parts ; and fuch teeth as have the greatell number of veffiels muft have the moft numerous chances of being feized wdth thefe difeafes. Every root of each tooth has a dlftin£l carral, with vef- fel and nerves> in it. Thefe canals in the teeth with more than one root, come nearer each other as they approach the bafe of the tooth; and at laft are only feparated by ve- ry thin plates, which, being generally Incomplete, allow a communication of all the canals; and frequently one com- mon cavity only appears within the bafe, in which a pulpy fubftance compofcd of nerves and veflels is lodged.—-The condition therefore of the nerves here bears a ftrong ana- logy to that of the cutaneous nerves which ferve for the fenfation of touching. Tiie entry of the canals for thefe velTcls is a fm?!! hole , placed (B) Ingraf. de tumor, cap. I. p- 24- 25- 26. (c) Thefaur, to. mim. 27. (dJ Arcan. Natur. co.ntinual. epift. p. 3.BONES OF THE HEAD. •Chap. II. 129 jplaced a little to a fide of the extreme point of each root; Ifometimes, efpecially in old people, this hole is entirely cclofed up, and confequently the nerves and blood-veflels are • deftroyed (f). The teeth are feen for a confiderable time in form of mucus ccontained in a membrane; afterwards a thin cortical plate nand fome few ofleous layers appear within the membrane, vwith a large cavity filled with mucus in the middle; and gra- fdually this exterior fliell turns thicker, the cavity decreafes, t the quantity of mucus is leflened, and this induration pro- cceeds till all the body is formed, from which the roots are af” t ter wards produced. In young fubjedls, different ftamina or rudiments of teeth rare to be obferved. Thofe next the gums ordinarily hinder tthe deeper feated ones from making their way out, "while tthefe prevent the former From fending out roots, or from cn- ttering deep into the bony fockets of the jaws; by which they t come to be lefs fixed. Children are feldom born with teeth; but at two years cof age they have twenty; and their number does not in- ccreafe till they are about feven years old; when the teeth tthat firft made their way through the gums are thruft out tby others that have been formed deeper in the jaw, and 1 fome more of the teeth begin to difeover themfelves farther hback in the mouth. About fourteen years of age, fome nmore of the firll; crop are Qied, and the number is increaf- eed. This fhedding of the teeth is of good ufe: for if the ffirll had remained, they would have Hood at a great dif- ttance one from another; becaufe the teeth are too hard i in their outer cruft' to increafe fo fall as the jaws do. IWhereas, both the fecond layer and the teeth that come oout late, meeting, while they are foft, with a confiderable rrefiftance to their growth in length, from thofe fituated up- VoL. 1. K. (^) De la Hire, HifKiire de I’acad. des Iciences, 169^. on130 OF THE SKELETON. Part L on them, ncceflarily come out broad, and fit to make that clofe guard to the mouth (jT) which they now form. The teeth are joined to the fockets by goinploofis, and tlie gums contribute to fix them there; as is evident by the teeth falling out when the gums are any way deftroyed or made too fpongy, as in the fcurvy or falivation: whence fome authors [g) clafs this articulation with the/yffarcofts. The ufes of th-e teeth are to malVicate our aliment, and to alfifl us in the pronunciation of fevtral letters. 'Though the teeth fo far agree in their ftru£lure, yet, be- caufe of fome things wherein they dilFer, they are gene- rally divid^ into three ciafl'es, viz. inciforcs, canini, and molares^' / The Incisores [h] are "the four fore-teeth in each jaw, receiving their name from their office of cutting our ali- ment ; for whicli they are excellently adapted, being each formed into a -Iharp-cutting edge- at their bafe,«by their fore-fide turning inwards there, while they are floped down and hollowed behind (i); fo that they have the form of wedges, aijd therefore their power of affmg mufh be con- fiderably increafed.——Seeing, in the adlion of the incifo- res, a perpendicular compreffion is only neceffary, witliout any lateral motion, they are not fo firmly fixed in their fockets as the other teeth are, each having only one Ihort root; but that is broader from before backwards, than to either fide, to have the greatefl fhrengtli where it is expo- fed to the I'lrongeft force applied to it \k). The incifores of the upper jaw, efpecially the two middle ones (/), are generally broader and longer than thofe of the under jaw. In (f) fgj Drake’s Anthropolog book. 4. chap. 3. fbj ri\a(TiVoif TOfoxei, i;^acnpi(, xT£«f, rofiti;, Riforil, (^iiateriiii, piiini, primores, antcrrtjres, acuti. fjj OXMic-xof. {ij JLettre I'ur roftcologic, aferibed to Du Verney. f/J Duale>.Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. >31 In a neW-born infant, only the outer flicll of the body of thefe teeth is hardened. Afterwards, when the fta- mina of two fets are formed, each has its own focket, thofe neareil to the edge of the gums being placed more for- ward, and the others are lodged farther back within the jaw- boner. Canini (m), from the refemblance to dogs tulks, are one an each Gde of the incifores in each jaw. The two in the upper jaw are called eye-teeth, from the communication of nerves which is faid to be between them and the eyes. The two in the lower jaw are xiTKvncA cmgular or wike-teeth, becaufe they fupport the angles of the mouth. The canini are broader, longer,- and llronger, than the incifores Their bafes are formed into a fharp-edge^ as the incifores are; only that the edge rifes into a point at the middle. Each of them has generally but one long root, though fometimes they have two («,). TluTroots are crook- ed towards the end. The canini of the upper jaw are lar- ger, longer, and with more crooked roots, than thofe of the under Jaw. The form of their bafe is fit both for piercing and cutting, and the long crooked root of each makes it fe- cure in the focket. The canini of a child are in much the fame condition the incifores are. The Deni'es Molares, or Grinders [o), which have got their name bccaufe they grind our food, are generally five in each fide of each jaw, in all twenty. Their bafes are broader, more fcabrous, and with a thinner cortical fubftance, than the other teeth. They have alfo more roots; and as thefe roots generally divaricate from each o- ther, the partitions of the fockets between them bear a R 2 large (ot) KovoJoyrff, Riibrii, fraflolii, collaterals, coliimcllares.'* (n) Fauchard, Chirurgien dentifte, chap, i, ^ (o) .MuXira,, yo/ijoi, yKXTu;, ^;arr')tr, MiixilJarcs, mcnfales, da- vales, buccarimi. /132 OF THE SKELETON. Parti. hrge fhare of the great preffure they fufFer, and hinder it from a£ling on their points (/>). The bafe of the firft grinder has an edge pointed in the middle, on its outfide, refembling the canini; from which it Hopes inwards till it, rifes again into a point.—It has gene- ncrally but one root, which fometimes is long and crooked at its point. The fecond dens molaris has two points on its bafe, rifing nearly equally on its out and infide. It has two roots, ei- ther feparate or run together, but Ihorter than the root of the firft. Thefe two anterior grinders are much fmaller than the three that are placed farther back in the mouth. The third and fourth are very broad in their bales, with four or five point? ftanding out; and they have three or more roots. The fifth, commonly called dens fapienth (y), from its coming through the gums later than the other grinders, has four points on its bafe, which is not fo large as the bafe of the third and fourth, and its roots are lefs nume- rous. The incifores of the upper jaw being broader than thofe of the lower jaw, make the fuperior grinders to be placed fo much farther back than the lower ones, that, when they are brought together, by (hutting the mouth, the points of the grinders of the one jaw enter into the depre- fions of the oppolite grinders, and they are all equally ap- plied to each other, notwithftanding the inequality of their furface. The numerous roots of the dentes molares prevent their loofening by the lateral preflure they fuffer in grinding; and as the fockets in the upper jaw are more fpongy, and the (y>) Lettre fur I’orteologie. ^oifpovis'tjptCt pccvr»ptC) .O'ptyovot, ScnFiis, intcllcflus, fcrontini, artatcni corrplentes, gsnuini, moderatarcs.*33 Chap. II. BONES OF THE HEAD. the teeth are more liable, by their fituation, tja fall out (r), the grinders there have more numerous and more fepara- ted roots than in the lower jaw (r). The number, however, of the roots of the teeth of both jaws is very uncertain ; fometimes they are more, fometimes fewer ; frequently fe- veral roots are joined together; at other times they are all diftinft. The difpofitlon of fuch as are diftinfl; is alfo va- ^•ious; for in fome the roots ftand out flraight, in others they feparate, and in others again they are crooked inwards. When the roots are united, we can ftill diftinguifli them, by remarking the number of fmall holes at their points, which determine the number of roots each tooth ought to be reckoned to have. At the time of birth, only two dentes molares in each jaw have begun to olTify; and that at little more than the bafe, which has feveral fharp points Handing out from it. The temporaneous grinders are placed more dlredlly upon the internal fet than the other two clafles are: fometimes there is a piece of the bone of the jaws between the two fets; in other children, the two fets have no bone interpofed be- tween them. From what has been faid, the anfwers to the following queries may be given. Why are children fubjeft to falivation, fever, convulfion, vomiting, purging, &c. when their teeth are breeding or cutting the gums ? Why in children do the dentes inciforcs firft cut the gums, the canini next, and molares lafl; ? AVhy do children flied their teeth ? ^ Why have thefe temporaneous teeth generally no roots, or Very fmall ones ? Why have thefe firft teeth fometimes roots, and that more , (/•) Galen de oflib. cap. 5. (j) Fauchard. Chirurg. dent, chap. I. IParr I. O F -T H E SKELETON. 134- more frequently in teeth pulled’ by art than in thofe which are hied by nature (/). Why do thefc roots frequently come outwards through the gums ? Whence comes butter or buck teeth ? How do theje teeth fometimes go into the natural row with the others, after pulling a rotten tooth near them ? How have fome people got two rows of teeth in one or both jaws (^^) ? Why do liie teeth of old people loofen, and then drop out entire ? V/hence arife the new fets of teeth which feveral old peo-' pie pbtain [x) ? Why are not the gums of toothlefs old people torn by the hard fockets in chewing ? Why are the teeth infenfible when flightly filed or rafped ? How come they to be fenfible of heat or cold, to be fet on edge by acids, or to give an uneafy fenfation when gritty or fandy fubftances are rubbed between them ? Why does a perfon who has a pained tooth imagine it longer than any otlier ? What is the reafon of fome pcrfons dying convulfed, upon rafping or filing down an overgrown tooth (j) ? blow do the teeth break ami moulder away without any naia in fome people, and not in others ? What parts are aiTcOfed in the toothach What are the chufes of the toothach ? hlay worms be reclomed among thefe caufes (z) ? Why are the dentes molnrcs mod fubjedl to that difeafe ? In (<) Fauchard, QIiiruri;ien-dcntifte, p. 7. ^ (u^ Blaf. Comment, ad Veiling. Syntagm. cap, i, 3, /'xj HotTman. ir. Van. Horc. Microcofm. p. 38. /'yj B.irthol'n. Anat. reformat, lib. 4. cap. 12. ,''2^ Jacob, in Aift. Hafn. vol. 5. obf. 107. Pechlin. Obferv. Medic. lib. 2. obf. 36.—Birtho'.im Hid. Medic, cent. 3. hid. 96.*35 BONES OF THE HEAD. Chap. II. In w'hat different manners ought the fevcral clalTes of teeth to be extraded when fiich an operation is ntccfl‘,iry Whence proceeds the violent obffinate hemorrhagy which foinetimes attends tlie drawing of teeth (a) ? Why is it more difficult and dangerous to draw the eye- teeth than any other ? What makes it impoflible frequently to draw grinder's without bringing a^ay part of the jaw-bone with them, or breaking the fangs ? Why do ^ecth foon replaced, after being extradlcd become again fixed in the fockets (^) ? According to ,the divifion made of the fkeleton, we ffiould now proceed to the delcription of the trunk of the body. But we muff; firff confider a bone which camiot well be faid to belong to either the head or the trank; nor is it immediately joined to any other, and therefore Is very fel- dom preferved with ficeletons. However, it is generally de- fcrlbed by authors after the bones' of the face. In obetiience, therefore, to the prevailing metliod, I fliall next examine the ffrudlure of the 'OS H Y O I D E S. The os hyoldes (r), is fituat^d' horizontally between the root of the tongue and the larynx. It is properly enough named hyoides, from the rtfcmblance it bears to the Greek letter u •, and may, for a clearer demonftration of its ffruc* ture, be diffinguiffied into its cornua, and appendices. 'rhe (a) Pare, livre 6. chap. 2. Rolfine, lib. 2. cap 27. & 30 Moebii k'undam. Mctiicin. cap. 9. Ephemerid. German, dec. i. ann. 3. obf. 319. Fauchard, Chirurg.-dentifte, tom. i. chap. 23. obferv. 7. (bj De la Motte Chirurgie, tom. i. chap. 4. obf. 2.—Fauchard, Chirur- gien-dentille. tom. x. chap. 29. (cj Hypfyloides, lambdoides, srafccrarii Os gutturis, os iiiv guae, os morfus Adami, aflcflbr, os laude, bicorne.Part I. OF THE SKELETON. 1 The body is the middle broad part, convex before and hol- low behind. The convex fore-part is divided into two by a ridge, into the middle of which the mylo-hyoidei, and into the Tides the Itylo-hyoidei, mufcles are inferted. Above the ridge, the bone is horizontal; but pitted in the middle by the infertion of the two genio-hyoidei mufcles, and a lit- tle hollowed more laterally by the bafio-gloffi. Below the ridge*, it is convex; but a little flatted in the middle by the fterno hyoidei, and pitted more externally by the coraco-hy- ' oidei.— The concavity behind faces backwards and down-- ■wards to receive the thyroid cartilage, when the larynx and the os hyoides are pulled towards each other by the adUon of , the fterno-hyoldei and hyo-thyroidei mufcles; and to its upper edge, the ligamentous membranes of the epiglottis, tongue^ and thyroid cartilage, are fixed. The cornua of the (a?) os hyoides are ftretched back- wards from each fide of' its body, where often a finall fur-i row points out the former feparatlon; for in young fub- jedls, the body and cornua are not one continued fub- Ifance, as they come afterwards to be in adults. Thefe cornua are not always ftraight, nor of an equal length; their two plain furfaces ftantj obliquely floping from above outwards and downwards.—Into the external, the cerato- I gloflis is inferted above, and the thyro-hyoideus mufcle be- low ; and to the one behind, the ligamentous membrane of the tongue and larynx adheres. Each of the cornua be- comes gradually fmaller aS it is extended from the bafe; ' but ends in a round tubercle, from which a moveable car- tilage ftands out, which is, connetSled to the upper procefs of the cartilago thyroidea. Where the body of the os hyoides joins on each fide with its cornua, a fmall ttyliform procefs, called appendix (^), « rifes fd) Crura, latera, infcriora. (cj Crura fupcriora, latera fuperiora, olFa graniniformia.Chap. li. B0N£S of the HEAD. 137 fifes upwards and backwards, into which the mufculi ftylo- hyoidei alteri, and part of the hyo-glo.fli mufcles, are fixed. From each of therri a ligament is fomefimes extended to the ftyloid procefles of the terriporal bones, to keep the os hyoides from being drawn too mucli forwards or downwards. The part of this ligament next to thefe procefleS fonietimes forms into feveral cartilages, which afterwards ofTify in old people. Ruyfch (/) faysj tliat he has feeil this offification continued as far up as the ftyloid procefles, which were therefore join- ed to the os hyoides by anchylofis. The fuhjlance of the os hyoides is cellhlar; blit covered with a firm external plate, which is of fufflcient ftrertgth fo , bear the aftions of fo maiiy mufcles as are inferted into it. It is not articulated \<’ith any bone of the body, except by means of the mufdeS and ligaments already nlentioned. The ufe of the os hyoides, is to ferve as a folid lever for the tnufcles to ad: with, in raifing or depreflTing the tongue and larynx, or in enlarging and dimiiiiihing the capacity of the fauces. ' At birth, this bone is in a cartilaginous ftate; excepting a rrhall point of bone in the middle of its body, and in each of the cornua.—The appendices frequently remain cartilaginous tnany years; Sect. II. Of the TRUNK. , '“T^HE Trunk confifts of the fpine^ pelvis^ and tho* -*• rax, ^ I. Tke S P i NE. The fpirie (g) is the long piles of bOnes extended ftoni the condyles of the occipilt to the end Of the rump. It fome- VoL. I. S what (/) Adverf. Anat. dec. 3. § 9. (^) vaT»» «y.«v3'cc, hfx Tergum hominis Gatioa.Part I. 133 OF THE SKELETON. what refemhles two unequal pyramids joined in a common bafe. It is not, however, ftraight j for its upper part being drawn backwards by ftrong mufcles, it gradually advances forwards, to fupport the cefophagus, veflels of the head, &c. Then it turns backwards, to make room enough for the heart and lungs. It is next bent forwards, to fupport the vifcera of the abdomen. It afterwards turns backwards, for the en- largement of the pelvis. And, lallly, it is reflected forwards, for fuftaining the lowed great gut. The fpine is commonly divided Into true and falfe vertebra; the former condituting the lon^ upper pyramid, which has its bafe below; while the falfe vertebrae make the diorter lower pyramid, whofe bafe is above. TRUE VERTEBRA. The true vertebrae'(/j) are the twenty-four upper bones of the fpine, on which tlie feveral motions of the trunk of our bodies are performed; from which ufe they have judly got their name. Each of thefe vertebrae Is compofed of its body and pro- celTes. The body Is the thick fpongy fore-part, which is convex before, concave backwards, horizontal and plain in mod of them above and below. Numerous fmall holes, efpe- cially on the fore and back part of their furface, give paf- fage to their vedels, and allow the ligaments to enter their fubdance. The edges of the body of each vertebra are covered, efpeclally at the fore-part, with a ring of bone firmer and more folid than the fubdance of the body any where elfe. Thefe rings feem to be joined to the verte- brae In the form of epiphyfes, but are alledged by fome (4) Srfffflif rfofiyyc!, Spondyli, ofla orbiculata, ofla vertebrata, verticula.139 Chap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. feme authors (/) to be the ligaments oHified. They are of great ufe in preventing the fpongy bodies from being broken in the motions of the trunk. Between the bodies of each two adjoining vertebrtc, a fubftance between the nature of ligament and cartilage is interpofed; which feems to confift of concentrical curved fibres, when it is cut horizonally; but when it is divi- ded perpendicularly, the fibres appear oblique and decuf- fating each other (k) The outer part of the invertebral ligaments is the moll folid and hard, and they gradually become fofter till they are almoft in the form of a glairy^ liquor in the centre; and therefore thefe fubftances were not improperly called mucous ligaments by the antients (/)• The external fibrous part of each is capable of being great- ly extended, and of being comprefled into a very fmall fpace, while the middle fluid part is incompreffible, or nearly fo; and the parts of this ligament between the cir- cumference and centre approach in their properties to each other, in proportion to their more folid or more fluid tex- ture. The middle point is therefore a fulcrum or pivot, on which the motion of a ball and focket may be made, with fuch a gradual yielding of the fubftance of the ligament, in whatever diredflon our fpines are moved, as faves the body from violent fliocks, and their dangerous confequen- ces (m). This ligamento-cartilaginous fubftance is firm- ly fixed to the horizontal furfaces of the bodies of the ver- tebrae, to conne£l them; in which it is alTifted by a ftrong membranous ligament, which lines all their concave fur- face, and by a ftill ftronger ligament that covers all their anterior convex furface. S 2 We (;) Fallop. Obfervat. Anat. (i) Blancardi Anat. reform, cap. 32.—Weitbrecht, Syndcfmolog. feft. 4. § 15- (/) Galen, Dc ufu part. lib. 12. cap. 16. {_>«) Medical eflays and obferv. vol. J. art. 38.We may lay it down as a general rule, notwithflanding foine exceptions, That the bodies of the verttbne are fmall- er, and more folid above; but, as they defcend, they appear larger and more fpongy; and that the cartilages between them are thick, and the furrounding ligaments flrong, in proportion to the fize of the vertebrse, and to the quantity of motion they perform: by which difpofition, the greater weight is fupported on the broadell bell fecured bafc, and the middle of our body is allowed a large and fecure morion. From each fide of the body of each vertebra, a bony bridj. q is produced backwards, and to one fide: from the pofterior end of which one flanting prqccfs rifes, and another defcends', the fmooth, and what is generally the flattell, fide ©f each of thefe four proceflcs, which are called the oblique (;;), is cover- ed witli a fmooth cartilage j and the two lower ones of each vertebra are fitted to, and articulated with, the two upper ‘or afcending oblique procefles of the vertebra below, having their articular ligaments fixed into the rough line round theif edges. From between the oblique procefles of each fide, the ver- tebra is (Iretched out laterally into a procefs that is named tratifoerfe. From the back-part of the roots of the two oblique and of the tranfverfe procefs of each fide, a broad oblique bony plate is extended backwards; where thefe meet, the feventh pro- cefs of the vertebrre takes it rife, and ftands out back- wards: this being generally fliarp pointed and narrow-edged, it has therefore been called fpinal procefs; from which this whole chain of bones has got its name. Befides the common ligament which lines all the inter- nal furface of the fpinal procefles, as well as of the bodies, particular ligaments conne£l the bony biidges and procefles of the contiguous vertebrae together. («) Artieulatorii, tbinimi. TheChap. II, BONES OF THE TRUNK. i.\x The fubftance of the procefles is confiderably ftronger and firmer, and has a thicker external plate, than the bodies of the vertebrse thernfelves. The feven prosejfe^ form a -concavity at their fore-part, which, joined to the one at the back-part of the bodies, makes a great hole *, and the holes of all the vertebrae form a long large conduit (o), for continuing the fpinal marrow, -In the upper and lower edge of each lateral bridge, there is a notch. Thefe are fo adapted to each other in the contiguous vertebrae, as to form a round hole in each fide between each two vertebrae, through which the nerves that proceed from the fpinal marrow and its blood-veflels pafs. The arikulatiotis, then, of thefe true vertebrae are plain- ly double : for their bodies are joined by the intervening cartilage above defcribed *, and their oblique procefles, be- ing tipped with cartilages, are fo conne£led by their liga- ments as to allow a fmall degree Df motion on every fide. Hence it is evident, that their centre of motion is altered in different pofitions of the trunk: for, when we bow for- wards, the upper moved part bears entirely on the bodies of the vertebrae; if we bend back, the oblique procefles fupport the weight; if we recline to one fide, we reft upon the oblique procefles of ihat fide and part of the bodies; if we ftand ereiSt, all the bodies and oblique procefles have their fliare in our fupport. Hence it follows, i. That becaufe the joints of which the fpine is compofed are fo numerous, the fpinal marrowy nerves, blood-veflels, &c. are not liable to fuch comprel- fion and over-ftretching in the motion of the trunk of the body as they would otherwife be, fince feveral vertebrae muft be concerned in every motion of the fpine ; and there- fore a very fmall curvature is made at the conjunction of any (o) Ufa (TiiiXNV,OF THE SKELETON. 142 Part I. any two vertebra (/>). 2. That an ered pofture is the fa- red and firmed, becaufe the furface of contact of the ful- cra is larged, and the weight is mod ‘perpendicular to them (y). 3. That the mufcles which move the fpine aft with greater force in bringing the trunk into an ere£l: podure than in drawing it to any other: For in bending forwards, backwards, or to a fide, the mufcles which perform any of thefe aftions are nearer the centre of motion ; confe- quently the lever with which they a£l is (horter than when the centre of motion is on the part of the vertebra, oppo- fite to that where thefe mufcles are inferred ; which is the cafe in raifing the trunk. This is extremely necedary; fince, in the defle£lIons of the fpine from a perpendicular bearing, the weight of the body foon inclines it in the di- redlion we choofe *, whereas, in raifing us ere£l, this great weight mud be more than countera£l:ed. 4. In calculating the force exerted by the mufcles which move the fpine, we fhould always make allowance for the a£lion of the carti- lages between the vertebrae, which, in every motion from an ere£l podure, mud be dretched on one fide, and com- prefled on the other, to both which they refid; whereas, in raifing the trunk, thefe cartilages aflid by their fpringy ' force (r). 5. We are hence naturally led into the reafon of our height of dature increafing in the morning, and dimlnlfliing at night (j) : for the intermediate cartilages of the vertebrae being prefsed all day long by the weight of our body, become more compa£l and thin in the evening; but, when they are relieved from this prefsure in the night, they again expand themfelves to their former thick- neis: and feeing the bulk of any part mud vary according to (p) Galen, de ufu part. lib. 12. cap. 12. (q) Poaw de olTib. part. 2. cap. 2. (r) Borelli de motu animal, pars I. fchol. ad propof. 58, Parent, Hifloirc de I’acad. des fciences, 1702. (tj Wafle, Philofoph. Tranfadt. ouipb. 383. art. i.Chap.II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. M3 to the different diftenfion or repletion of the vefsels com- pofing it, we may underftand how we become taller after a plentiful meal, and decreafe after fading or evacuations (/)• 6. From the different articulations of the bodies and ob- blique procefses of the vertebrx, and the different ftrength of the ligaments, it is plain, that they are formed fo as to allow much larger motiou forwards than backwards j this laft being of much lefs ufe, and might be dangerous, by over-ftretching the large blffcd-vefsels that are contiguous to the bodies of the vertebr3e («)• 7* The intervertebral cartilages fhrivelling as they become more folid by age, is the caufe why old people generally bow forwards, and can- not raife their bodies to fuch an erect poflure as they had in their youth. The ufes of the true vertebrae are, to give us an eredt pof- ture ; to allow fufficient and fecure motion to the head, neck, and trunk of the body; and to fupport and defend the bowels and other foft parts. ' At the ordinary time of birth, each vertebra confifls of three bony pieces, conne£ted by cartilages; to wit, the bo- dy, which is not fully offified; and a long crooked bone on ■ each fide, on which we fee a fmall fhare of the bony bridge, the oblique procefses complete, the beginning tranfverfe procefses, and the oblique plate, but' no fpinal procefses: fo that the teguments are in no danger of being hurt by the (harp ends of fhefe fpinal procefses, while a child is in its bended poflure in the womb, nor while it is fqueezed in the birth. From this general mechanifm of the fpine, an account is eafily deduced of all the different preternatural curvatures of which the fpine is capable : For if one or more vertebrae, or their cartilages, are of unequal thicknefs in oppofitc fidcs, ftj Abbe Fontenu. Hiftoire de I’acad. des fdencei:, I74J. (uj Galen, de ufu part. lib. i, cap. i6.M4 O F T H E S K E L E T O n/ Part I; Tidesi tlie fplne miift be reclined over to the thinner fide; which now fuftaining the greateft ftiare of the weight, muft (till be more comprefsed, confequently hindered from ex- tending itfelfin proportion to the other fide, which, being too much freed of its burden, has liberty to enjoy a luxu- riant growth. The caufes, on which »fuch an inequality of thicknefs in different fides of the vertebras depends, may vary. For euhcr it may be owing to an over-diflenfion " of the vefsels of one fide, and from thence a preternatural increafe of the thicknefs of that part: or, which is more commonly the cafe, it may proceed from an obftruftion of the vefsels, by which the application of proper nourifii- ment to the bony fubftance is hindered; whether that ob- ftruftion depends on the faulty difpofition of the vefsels or ■ fluids^ or if it is produced by an unequal mechanical pref- fure occafioned by a paralytic weaknefs of the mufcles and ligaments, or by a fpafmodic over-a£fion of the mufcles on any fide of the fpine, or by people continuing long, or putting themfelves frequently, into any pofture declining from the ereft one: In all thefe cafes one common efFe6l follows, to wit, the vertebrae, or their cartilages, or both, turn thick on that fide where the vefsels are free, and re- main thin on the other fide w^here thefe vefsels are Rraighten- cd or ob(lru£led>—Whenever any morbid curvature is thus made, a fecond turn, but in an oppofite diredlion to the for- mer, muft be formed; both becaufe the mufcles on the convex fide of the fpine being flrctchedi muft have a ftrong- er natural contra61ion to draw the parts to w^hich their ends are fixed, and becaufe the patient makes efforts to keep the centre of gravity of the body perpendicular to its bafe, that the mufcles may be relieved from a conftant violent con-* tra£Hle ftate, w'hich always creates uneafinefs and pain. Whence once we underftand how thefe crooked fpines are produced, there is little difficulty in forming a juft prog- nofis;Chap. II. M5 BONES OF THE HEAD. uofis, and a proper method of cure may be eafiJy contrived, which mufl; vary as to the internal medicines, according to the different caufes on which the difeafe depends : But one general indication mufl be purfued by furgeons •, which is, to countera£f the bending force, by increafing the com- prcffion on the convex part^f the curvature, and dlminifliing it on the concave fide. The manner of executing which in particular cafes mufl be different, and requires a very accurate examination of the circumflances both of the difeafe and pa- tient. In many fuch cafes I have found fome fimple diredlions, as to poftures in which the patient’s body fhould be kept, of very great advantage. Though the true vertebrae agree in the general ftruc- ture which I have hitherto deferibed ; yet, becaufe of ftve- fal fpecialties proper to a particular number, they are commonly divided into three claffes, viz. cervicaly dorfaly and lumbar. The CERVICAL (at) are the feven uppermofl vertebrae ; which are diflinguiflied from the reft by thefe marks.—— Their bodies are fmaller and more folid than any others ; and flatted on the fore-part, to make way for the cCfopha- gus; or rather this flat figure is owing to the preffure of that pipe, and to the adlion of the longi colli and anterior re£li mufcles. They are alfo flat behind, where fmall pro- eeffes rife, to which the Internal ligaments are fixed. The upper furface of the body of each vertebra is made hollow, by a flanting thin procefs which is raifed on each fide : The lower furface is alfo hollowed, but in a different manner for here the pofterior edge is raifed a little, and the anterior one is confiderably produced.—Hence vet fee how the car- tilages between thofe bones are. firmly connefted, and their articulations are fecure. VoL. I. T The (») CoHi,146 OF THE SKELETON. Part I. % The cartilages between thefc vertebrae are thick, efpecial- ly at their fore-part; which is one reafon why the vertebrae advance forward as they defcend, and have larger motion. The oblique proccfles of thefe bones of the neck more jullly defeirv'e that name than thofe of any other vertebrae. They art fituated Wanting; the upper ones having their fmoo.th and almoft fiat furfaces facing obliquely backwards and upwards, while the inferior oblique proceffes have thefe lurfaces facing obliquely forwards and downwards. The tranfvcrfe proceffes of thefe vertebrae are framed in a different manner from thofe of any other bones of the fpine; For, befides the common tranfvcrfe procefs rifmg from between the oblique proceffes of each fide, there is a fecohd one tliat comes out from the fide of the body of each vertebra j and thefe two proceffes, after leaving a cir- cular hole for the paffage of the cervical artery and vein, unite, and are confiderably hollowed at their upper part, with rifing fides, ,to proteft the netwes that pafs in the hollow ; and at lafl each fide terminates in an obtufe point, for the in- fertion of mufcles. The fpinal proceffes of thefe cervical bones ftand nearly ffraight backwards, are fliorter than thofe of any other ver- tebrse, and are forked or double at their ends ; and hence allow a more convenient infertion to mufcles. The thick cartilag-es between the bodies of thefe cervical vertebrae, the obliquity of their oblique proceffes, and the fliortnefs and horizontal fituatlon of their fpinal procefles, all confpire to allow them large motion. The holes between the bony crofs bridges, for the paffage of the nerves from the fpinal marrow, have their largefl fhare formed in the loweft of the two vertebrae, to which they are common. So far mofl: of the cervical vertebrae agree ; but they haveBONES OF THE TRUNK. >47 Chap. II. have fome particular dKTerences, which oblige us to confider -them feparateJy. The firft, from its ufe of fupporting the liead, has the name of atlas (y); and is alfo called epijirophea from the motion it performs on the fecond. The atlas, confrary to all the other vertebrae of the fpine, ^ has no body; but, inftead of it, there is a bony arch. In the convex fore-part of this arch a fmall riling appears, where the mufcull longl colli are inferted ; and, on eacli fide of this protuberance, a fmall cavity may be obferved, where the re£li interni minores take their rife. The upper and lower parts of the arch are rough and unequal, where the ligaments that connect this vertebra to the ms occipitis, and to the fecond vertebra, are fixed.——The back-part of the arch is concave, fmooth, and covered with a- cartilage, in a recent fubje£I, to receive the tooth- like projcefs of the fecond vertebra. In a firft vertebra, from which the fecond has been feparated, this, hollow makes the palFage for the fpinal marrow -to feem much larger than it really is : On each fide of It a fmall rough fmuofity may be remarked, where the ligaments going to the fides of the tooth-like procefs of the following verte- bra are faflened ; and on each fide a fmall rough protube- rance and depreffion is obfervable, where the traufverfe liga- ment, which fecures the tooth-like procefs in tlie finuofity, is fixed, and hinders that procefs from injuring the medulla fpinals in the fledlions of the head. ' The atlas has as little fpinal procefs as body; but Inflcad of it, there is a large bony arch, that the mufcles which pafs over this vertebra at that place might not be hurt in extending the head. On the back and upper part of this arch there are two deprelTions, where the re£ti poftici mi- nores take their rife; and at the lower part ar^ two other T 2 finuofities, Cy) I-148 OF THE SKELETON. Part I. finuofities, into wliich the ligaments that conned this bone to the following one are fixed. The fuperior oblique procefs of ‘ this atlas are large, oblong, hollow, and more horizontal than in any other vertebra They rife more in their external than inter- nal brim ; by which their articulations with the condyloid proctlTcs of the os occipitis are firmer Under the ex- ternal edge of each of thefe oblique procefles is the foffa, or deep open channel, in which the vertebral arteries make the circular turn, as they are about to enter the great fo- ramen of the occipital bone, and where the tenth pair of nerves go out.——In feveral bodies I have feen this fofla covered with bone.- Fhe inferior oblique proceffes, extending from within outwards and downwards, are large, concave, and circular. So that this vertebra, contrary to the other fix, receives the bones with which it is articulated^ both above and below. The tranfverfe procefles here are not much hollowed oy forked; but are longer and lai^r than thofe of any other vertebra of the neck, from the origin and infertion of fe- veral mufcles ; of which thofe that ferve to move this ver- tebra on the fecond have a confiderable lever to ad with, becaufe of the diftance of their infertion from the axis of revolution. The hole for the fpinal marrow is larger in this than in any other vertebra, not only on account of the marrow being larged here, but alfo to prevent its being hurt by the motions of this vertebra on the fecond one. Tins large hole, and the long tranfverfe procefles, make this the broadeft vertebra of the neck. The condyles of the os occipitis move forwards and back- wards in the fuperior oblique proceflTes of this vertebra ; but from the figure of the bones forming thefe joints, it appears,BONES O F THE TRUNK. j Chap. ir. 149 appears, that very little motion cart here be allowed to ei- ther fide ; and there mud be ftill lefs circular motion. In new born children this vertebra has only the two la- teral pieces ofhfied ; the arch, which it has at its fore-pait indead of a body, being cartilaginous. The fecond vertebra colli is called dentaia, from the footh-like procefs on the upper part of its body. Some au- thors call it epiflrophea ; but improperly, fince this defignatiou is only applicable to the fird, which moves on this as on an axis. The body of this vertebra is fomewhat of a pyranndal figure, being large, and produced downwards, efpecially at its fore-fide, to enter Into a hollow of the vertebra be- low ; while the upper part has a fquare procefs, with a fmall point danding out from ir, This It is that is imagin- ed to refemble a tooth (z), and has given name to the ver- tebra.—The fide of this procefs, on which the hollow of the anterior arch of the fird vertebra plays, is convex, fmooth, and covered with a cartnlage ; and it is of the fame form behind, for the ligament, which is extended tranf- verfely from One rough protuberance of the fird vertebra, to the other, and is cartilaginous in the middle, to move on it.—A ligament likewife goes out in an oblique tranf- ' verfe diredbion, from each fide of the procefius dentatus, ' to be fixed at its other end to the fird vertebra, and to the occipital bone ; and another ligament rifes up from near the point of the procefs to the os occipitis. The fuperior oblique procefles of this vertebra dentata are large, circular, very nearly in an horizontal pofition, and flightly convex, to be adapted to the inferior oblique pro- cefles of the fird vertebra.—A moveable cartilage is faid by 'fome authors to be interpofed between thefe oblique pro- CcflTes of the fird and fecond vertebra j but I could never find Conoidcs, pyrenoides, odonto'ul<^.O^F THE SKELETON. Part I. find it.. The Inferior oblique procefTes of thif5 vertebra dentata anfwer exa6lly to the defcription given of thofe common to all the cervical vertebnc. The tranfverfe procefles of the vertebra dentata are fliort, very little hollowed at their upper part, and not forked at their ends ; and the canals through which the cervical ar- teries pafs are reflected outwards about the middle fub- ftance of each procefs ; fo that the courfe of thefe vefiels may be directed towards the tranfverfe procefles of the firft vertebra. Had this curvature of the arteries been made in a part fo moveable as the neck is, while they were not de- fended by a bone, and fixed to that bone, fcarce a motion could have been performed without the utmoft hazard of comprefTion, and a flop put to the courfe of the liquids, with all its train of bad confequences. Hence we obferve this fame mechanifm feveral times ufed, when there is any occafion for a fudden curvature of a large artery. This is the third remarkable inftance we have feen of it. The firfl was the pafTage of the carotids through the temr poral bones *, and the fecond was that lately defcribed in the vertebral arteries, turning round the oblique procefles of the firfl vertebra, to come at the great hole of the occipital fcone. The fpinal procefs of this vertebra dentata is thick, ftrong, and fliort, to give fufficient origin to the mufculi re£U majores. and obliqui inferlores, and to prevent the contuflon of thefe and other mufcles in pulling the head back. , This fecond vertebra' confifls, at the birth, of four bony pieces: For, befides the three which I have already men- tioned as common to all the vertebrte, the tooth-lIke pro- cefs of this bone is begun at this time to be offifled in its middle, and is joined as an appendix to the body of the bone.—Left this appendix be bent or difplaced, nurfes out to keep the heads of new born children from falling tooChap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. r'si too far backwards, by ftay-bands, or fome fuch means, till the mufcloe attain ftrength fuflicient to prevent that dange- rous motion. When we are acquainted with the ftru£Iure and articula.- tions of the firft and fecond vertebrte, and know exadtly the ftrength and connexion of their ligaments, there is no difficulty in underftanding the motions that arc performed upon, or by, the firft; though this fubjeO: was formerly matter of hot difpute among fome of the greateft anato- mifts (a). It is not my purpofe at prefent to entec into a detail of the reafons advanced by either party ; hut to ex- plain the fa£l, as any one may fee it, who w'lll remove the mufcles, which, in a recent fubjedf, hinder the view of thefe two joints, and then w'ill turn the head into all the ‘different pofitions of which it is capable. The head may then be feen to move forwards and backwards on the firft verte- » bra, as was already f.iid, while the atlas performs the clr- cumgyratio upon the fecond vertebra: the inferior obHque procelTes of the firft vertebra fluiffling eafily in a circular motion on the fuperior oblique procefles of the’fccond, and its body or anterior arch having a rotation on the tooth- like procefs, by which the perpendicular ligament that is fent from the point of the tooth-like procefs to the occipi- tal bone is twifted, while the lateral ligaments that fix the proceffus dentatus to the fides of the firft vert(;bra, and to the os occipitis, are very differently affo£led ; for the one upon the fide towards which the face is turned by the clr- cumgyraiio is much ftiortened and lax, while the oppofite one is ftretched and made tenfe, and, yielding at laft no more, prevents the head from turning any farther round on the axis. So that thefe lateral ligaments are the proper moderators of the circumgyratio of the head here ; which muft be larger or fmaller, as thefe ligaments are weaker or («) See £u(lach. 4c inotu capitis.352 Part I. OF THE SKELETON. or ftronger, longer or fliorter, and more or lefs capable of being ftretched. Befides the revolution on this axis, tlie firft vertebra can move a fmall way to either fide; but is prevented from moving backwards of forwards by its an- terior arch, and by the crofs ligament, wdiich are both clofely applied to the tooth-Uke procefs. Motion forwards here would have been of very bad confequence, as it w-ould have brought the beginning of the fpinal marrow upon the point of the tooth-like procefs. The rotatory motion of the head is of great ufe to us on many accounts, by allowing us to apply quickly the or- gans of the fenfes to objecTs : And the axis of rotation was altogether proper to be at this place ; for, if it had been at a greater dlllance from the head, the weight of the head, if it had at any time been removed from a perpendicular bear- ing to the fmall very moveable joint, and thereby had ac- quired a long lever, w'culd have broken the ligaments at every turn inconfiderately performed, or thefe ligaments mud; have been formed much ftronger, and confequently Could not liave been connected to fuch fnvill bones. Neither could this circular motion be performed on the firft vertebra without danger, becaufe the immoveable part of the medulla oblongata is fo near, as, at each large turn, the beginning the fpinal marrow would have been in danger of being twifted, and of fuffering by tlie cornpreftion this vi'buld have made on its tender fibrils. It is neced’ury to obferve, that the lateral or moderator iisraments confined fo much the motion of the firft verte-, O bra upon the fecond, that though this joint may ferve us on feveral occafions, yet we are often obliged to turn our faces farther round than could be done by this joint alone, without the greateft danger of twilling the fpinal marrow- too much, and alfo of luxating the oblique proceffes: therefore, in large turns of this kindj- the rotation is af- fiftedChap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. ^53 filled by all the vertebrce of the neck and loins; and i£ this is not fufficient, we employ mod of the joints of the lower extremities. This combination of a great many joints towards the performance of one’ motion, is alfo to be obferved in feveral other parts of the body; notwith- ftanding fuch motion being generally fald to be performed by fome fingle joint alone. The third vertebra of the neck is by fome csWed axis j but this name is applied to it with much lefs reafon than to the fecond. This third, and the three below, have no- thing particular in their ftru£lure, but all their parts come under the general defeription formerly given, each of them being larger as they defeend. The feventh (b) vertebra of the neck is near to the form of thofe of the back, having the upper and lower f^rfaces of its body lefs hollow than the others: The oblique pro- cefses are more perpendicular; neither fpinal nor tranf- verfe procefses are forked. This feventh and the fixth ver- tebra of the neck have the hole in each of their tranfverfe procefses more frequently divided by a fmall crofs bridge, that goes between the cervical vein and artery, than any of the other vertebrae. Tlie twelve Dorsal (r) niay be dlftlnguified from the o- ther vertebrae of the fpine by the following marks. Their bodies are of a middle f ze, between thofe of the neck and loins :—they are more convex before than either of the other two forts ; and are flatted laterally by the preffure of the ribs, which are inferted into fmall cavities formed in their Tides, This flatnefs of their Tides, which makes the figure of thefe vertebrae almofl an half oval, is of good ufe ; as it aflbrds a firm aftict|lation to the ribs, allows the trachea arterla to divide at a fmall angle, and : VoL. I. U the (6) Atlas quibufdam, maxima, magna vertebra, prominens. (f) fUTcfffiiVf y«ri', \nroTfv.x'^>^v, antifterni, peftoris. trrg!-OF THE SKELETON. Part I. *54 The the other large veffels to run fecurc from the a£lion of the vital organs. Their bodies are more concave behind than any of the other two clafles.—Their upper and lower furfaces are horizontal. The cartilages interpofed between the bodies of thefe vcr- tebrre are thinner than in any other of the true vertebra:; and contribute to the concavity of the fpine in the thorax, by being thinnefl at their fore-part. The oblique procefles are placed almoll perpendicularly; the upper ones flanting but a little forwards, and the lower ones flanting as much backwards. Their convexity or concavity is not fo remarkable as to require particular no- tice. Between the oblique procefits of oppofite fides, feve- ral fliarp procefles ftand out from the upper and lower parts of the plates which join to form the fpinal procefles; into thefe fltarp procefles, (Ircng ligaments are fixed for connedling the vertebrae. The tranfverfe procefles of the dorfal vertebrae are long, thicker at their ends than in the middle, and turned oblique- ly backwards ; which may be owing to the preflure of the ribs, the tubercles of which are inferted into a deprefllon near the end of thefe procefles. The fpinal procefles are long, fmall-pointed, and flo- plng downwards and backwards: from their upper and back-part a ridge rifes, which is received by a fmall chan- nel in the fore-part of the fpinal procefs Immediately above, which is here connected to it by a ligament. The conduit of the fpinal marrow^ is here more circular, but, correfponding to the fize of that cord, is fmaller than In anjr of the other vertebra;; and a larger fltare of the holes in the bony bridges, for the tranfmiflaon of the nerves, is formed in the vetebra above than in the one % below.155 Chap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. U 2 The The conne£llon of the dorfal rertebrte to the ribs, the thinnefs of their cartilages, the ere£l fituation of the oblique procefles, the length, hoping, and connection of the fpinal procefles, all contribute to reftrain thefe vertebrte from much motion, which might difturb the aCtions of the heart and lungs ; and in confequence of the little motion allowed here, the intervertebral cartilages fooner flirivel, by becoming more folid ; and therefore the firfl; remarkable curvature of the fplne obferved, as people advance to old age, is in the leaft ftretched vertebrae of the back ; or old people firll be- come round fliouldcred. The bodies of the four uppermoft dorfal vertebrae deviate from the rule of the vertebrae becoming larger as they defeend : for the firfl; of the four is the largeft, and the other three below gradually become fmaller, to allow the trachea and large velTels to divide at fmaller angles. The two uppermofl. vertebrte of the back, inftead of being very prominent forwards, are flatted by the aClion of the muf- culi longi colli and reCli majores. The proportional fize of the two little deprefiions in the body of each vertebra for receiving the heads of the ribs, feems to vary in the following manner ; the deprelfion.ou the upper edge of each vertebra decreafes as far down as the fourth, and after that increafes. The tranfverfe procefles are longer in each lower verte- bra to the feventh or eighth,' with their fmooth furfaces, for the tubercles of the ribs, facing gradually more down- wards ; but afterwards, as they defeend, they become fliort- er, and the fmooth furfaces are direCled more up- wards. The fpinous procefTes of the vertebra; of the back become ! gradually longer and more flanting, from the firfl; as far down as the eighth or ninth vertebra i from which they manifellly turn fhorter and more ereCt.156 Part I. OF THE SKELETON. The hrft (d) vertebra, befides an oblong hollow in its lower edge, that affifts in forming the cavity wherein the fecond rib is received, has the whole cavity for the head of the firft rib formed in it. The fecond has the name of axillary (r), without any thing particular in its llruflure. The eleventh (y) often has the whole cavity for the ele- venth nb in its body, and wants the fmooth furface on each tranfverfe procefs. The twelfth (g) always receives the whole head of the laft rib, and has no fmooth furfaces of its tranfverfe pro- ceflcs, which are very ihort The fmooth furfaces of its inferior oblique prpcefTes face outwards as the lumbar do.-*—And we may fay in general, that the upper vertebrce of the back lofe gradually their refemblance to thofe of the neck, and the lower ones come nearer to the figure of the lumbar. The articulation of the vertebra of the back with the ribs, fliall be more particularly confidered after the ribs are defcribed. Only it may be proper now to remark, that the ligaments which ferve that articulation tilhll in connedling the vertebrtr. The lowefi: order of the true vertebrae -is the himlar (/j), which are five bones, that may be dihinguiflied from any others by thefe marks: i. Their bodies, though of a cir- cular form at their fore-part, are fomewhat oblong from one fide to the other; which may be occafioned by the preffure of the large yeflels, the aorta and cava, and of the vifcera. The epiphyfes on their edges are larger *, and therefore the upper and lower furfaces of their bodies are more concave than in the vertebrae of the back. 2. The • cartilages (</) Aofia, Guttiiralis. (0 .M«cr,v«Ai3TV. (S') Affijrrf, in neutram partem inclinaos. (jt) Ata^uarvf, Praccingens. (/■) Otra’wr, Rcaunb lu’mbotiimi*57 Chap.II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. cartilages between thefe vcrtebrx are much the tliickefl of any, and render the fpine convex within the abdomen, b/ their greatefl; thicknefs being at their fore-part. 3. The oblique procefl'es are ftrong and deep; thole in oppofitc lides being almoft placed in parallel planes •, the fuperior, which are concave, facing inwards, and the convex inferior ones facing outwards: And therefore each of thefe verte- brae receives the one above it, and is received by the one below; which is not fo evident in the other two clafles al- ready deforibed. 4. Their tranfverfe procefl'es are fmall, long, and almoR erc£l:, for allowing large motion to each bone, and fafficient infertion to mufcles, and for fupporting and defending the internal parts. 5. Between the roots of the fuperior oblique and tranfverfe procefl'es a fmall protu- berance may be obferved, where fome of the mufcles that raife the trunk of the body are inferted. 6. Their fpinal procefl'es are ftrong, ftraight, and horizontal, with broad flat fides, and a narrow edge above and below j tins laft: being deprelfed on each fide by mufcles. And at the root of thefe edges, we fee rough furfaces for fixing the liga- ments. 7. The canal for the numerous cords called cauda equina^ into which the fpinal marrow divides, is rather larger in thefe bones than what contains that marrow in the vertebra: of the back. 8. The holes for the palTage of the nerves are more equally formed out of both the contigu- ous vertebrae than in the other clafl'es ; the upper one fur* nilhes, however, the larger fliare of eaeh hole. The thick cartilages between thefe lumbar vertebr^, their deep oblique procefl'es, and their ere£l fpinal procefl'es, arc 'all fit for allowing large motion : though it is not fo great as what is performed in the neck •, which appears from com- paring the arches which the head deferibes when moving on the neck or the loins only. The lumbar vertebrte, as they defeend, have their oblique procefl'esOF THE SKELETON. 158 Part L proceffes at a greater diftance from each other, and facing more backwards and forwards. Both tranfverfe and fpinal procefles of the middlemof!; vertebrse of the loins are longeft and thickefl ; in the ver- tebrae above and below, they are lefs : So that thefe procefles of the firll (/) and fifth (^) are the leaft, to prevent their firiking on the ribs or oflh ilium, or their bruifing the muf- cles in the motions of the fpine. The epiphyfes round the edges of the bodies of the lum- bar vertebrce are moll raifed in the two loweft ; which con- fequently make them appear hollower in the middle than the others are. The body of the fifth vertebra is rather thinner than that of the fourth. The fpinal procefs of this fifth is fmall- er, and the oblique procefles face more backwards and for- wards than in any other lumbar vertebra. • After confidering the finuflure of the particular ver- tebras, and their mutual connetHoft, we may obferve a fe- licitous care taken that they fhall not be disjoined without great difficulty. For, befides being connedled by ftrong li- gaments proportioned to the forces which are to be refill- ed, their bodies either enter fo into each other as to pre- vent their being difplaced any way, as in the vertebrae of the neck; or they are propped on all fides, as thofe of the back are by the ribs; or their furfaces of contatl are fo broad, as to render the feparation almofl impradicable, as in the loins : while the depth and articulation of the ob- lique procefles are exadlly proportioned to the quantity of motion which the other parts of the bones allow, or the mufcles can perform. Yet as thefe oblique procefles are fir.all, and therefore not capable of fo fecure a conjun£lion as the larger bodies, they may fooner yield to a disjoining force j (<{) Acr;^t»,irr{j Fnlciens. R,cnalis.Chap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. 159 force; but then their dlflocation is not of near fo bad confe- quence as the reparation of the bodies would be : for by the oblique procelTes being didocated, the mufcles, liga- ments, and fpinal marrow, are indeed ftretchcd ; but this marrow mufl; be comprcffed, or entirely dellroycd, when the body of the vertebra is removed out of its place. THE FALSE VERTEBRiE. The False Vertebra compofe the under pyramid of the fpine. They are dlllinguifhed from the bones already defcribed juftly enough by this epithet of falfe ; becaufe, though each bone into which they can be divided in young people refembUs the true vertebrae in figure, yet none of them contribute to the motion of the trunk of the body; they being intimately united to each other in adults, except at their lower part, where they are moveable ; whence they are commonly divided into two bones, os facrum, and os coccygis- Os Sacrum {/), Is fo called, from being ofiered in fa- crifice by the antlents, or rather becaufe of its largenefs in rcfpe£l of the other vertebrae This bone is of an irre.* gular triangular fhape, broad above, narrow below; con- vex, behind, for the advantageous origin of the mufcles that move the fpine and thigh backwards ; and concave before, for enlarging the cavity of the pelvis. Four tranfverfe lines, of a colour different from the reft of the bone which are feen on its fore part, are the marks of divifion of the five different bones of which It confifts in young perfons. The fore-part of the os facrum, analogous to tHe bodies of the true vertebrae, is fmooth and flat, to allow a larger fpacd for the contained bowels, without any danger of hurting (1) hpov, jKtXKf, Hlppocrat. ur9<rsrovXi)A3», Orlbaf. La- tum, asclunium, daviutn.i6o OF THE SKELETON. Part I. hurting them ; or this flat figure may be owing to the equal- pretTure of thefs bowels, particularly of the ha gut I’he back-pa-rt of it is almoR araight, without fo large a cavity as the vertebrae have 5 becaufe the fpinal marrow, now fe- parated into the cauda equina, is fmall The bridges be- tween the bodies and procefles of this bone are much thicker^ and in proportion fliorter, than in the former clafs of bones. The ilrength of thefe crofs bridges is very remarkable in the three upper bones, and is well proportioned to the Incum- bent w'eight of the trunk of the body, which thefe bridges fuRaln in a tranfverfe, confequently an unfavourable, fitua- tion, when the body is ere£l. There are only two oblique procefles of the os facrum j one aanding out on each fide from the upper part of the lira bone.—Their plain eredl furfaces face backwards, and are articulated with the inferior oblique procefles of the laa vertebra of the loins, to which each of thefe procefles is connedled by a flrong ligament, which rifes fiom a fca- brous cavity round their roots, where mucilaginous glands are alfo lodged.—Inflead of the other oblique procefles of this bone, four rough tubercles are to be feen on each fide of its furface behind, from which the mufculus facer has its origin. The tranfverfe procefles here are all grown togctlier in- to c.ie large flrong oblong procefs on each fide; which, fo far as it anfwers to the firfl three bones, is very thick, and divided into two irregular cavities by a long perpendi- cular ridge.—The foremofl of the two cavities has com- monly a thin cartilaginous Ikin covering it in the recent fubjeil, and is adapted to the -unequal protuberance of the os ilium ; and a flrong ligament conneifls the circumfe- rence of thefe furfaces of the two bones.—The cavity be- hind Is divided by a tranfverfe ridge into two, where flrong. ligamentousi6i BONES OF THE TRUNK. Chap. II. } ligamentous firings that go from this bone to the os ilium, with a cellular fubftance containing mucus, are lodged. The tranfvcrfe procefles of the two laft bones of the os fa- crum are much fmaller than the former.—At their back-part near their edge, a knob and oblong flat furfacc give rife to two llrong ligaments which are extended to the os ifehium •, an^i are therefore called facrofciatic. The fpinal procefles of the three uppermofl bones of the os facrum appear fliort, Iharp, and almoft ere£l, while the two lower ones are open behind ; and fometimes a little, knob is to be feen on the fourth, though generally it is bi- furcated, without the two legs meeting into a fpine •, in, which condition alfo the firfl; is often to be feen ; and fometimes none of them meet, but leave a fituis, or rather fofla, inftead of a canal [m).—The mufculus latiflimus and longilTimus dorfi, facro-lumbalis, and glutaeus maximus, have part of their ori- gins from thefe fpinal procefles. The canal between the bodies and procefles of this bone, for the cauda equina, is triangular; and becomes fmaller, as the cauda alfo does, as it defeends. Below the third bone, this paflage is no-more a complete bony canal, but is open be- hind ; and is only there defended by a flrong ligamentous membrane ftretched over it, wdiich, with the mufcles that co- ver it, and that are-very prominent on each fide, is a fulFicicnt defence for the bundle of nerves within. At the root of each oblique procefs of this bone, the notch is confpicuous ; by which, and another fimilar one in the laft vertebra of the loins, a paflage is left for the twenty- fourth fpinal nerve ; and in viewing the 03 facrum, either before or behind, four large holes appear in each fide, in much the fame height as where the mr,rks of the union of Its feveral bones remain. Some of the largeft nerves of the body pafs through the anterior holes; and fuperficial grooves. VoL. I. X fm) Verheyen, Anat. trail. 5. cap. 9,- -Sue Trad, d’ofteol. p. 127.Part I. \6^ OF THE SKELETON. gtoovcs, running outwards from them in different direc- tions> fhew the courfe of thefe nerves.-^ From the inter- vals of thefe grooves, the pyriformis mufde chiefly rifes. “* The holes in'the bacK-part of the bone are covered by membranes which allow finall nerves to pafs through them, •—— fhe two uppermpfl: of thefe holes, efpecially on the fore-fide, are the larged ; and as the bone defeends, the holes turn fmaller. Sometimes a notch is only formed at the lower part in each fide of this bone ; and in other fub- jeds there is a hole common to it and the os coccygis, through which the twenty-ninth pair of fpinal nerves pafTes ; and frequently a bony bridge is formed on the back part of each fide by q procefs fent up from the back*part of the os coccygis, and joined to the little knobs which the lad bone of the os facrum has indead of a fpinal procefs. Un- der this bridge or jugum, the twenty-ninth pair of fpinal nerves runs in its courfe to the common holes jud now de- feribed. The upper part of the body of the fird bone refembles the vertebrae of the loins ; but the fmall fifth bone is ob- long tranfverfely, and hollow in the middle of its lower fur- face. The fubdance of the os facrum is very fpongy, without any confuler-ible folid external plates, and is lighter pro- portionally to its bulk tlian any other bone in the body ; but it is fecured from injuries by the thick mufcles that co- ver it behind, and by the drong ligamentous membranes that clofely adhere to it.— .^s this is one of the mod remark- able Indanccs of this fort of defence aflbrded a foft weak bone, we may make the general obfervation : That w’herever we meet with fuch a bone, one or other, or both thefe defences, ■are udd ; the fird to ward od injuries and the fccond to keep tiie fubdance of the bone from yielding too eafily. ThisChap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. 9 This bone is articulated above to the laft vertebra of the Joins, in the manner that the lumbar vertebra: are joined ; and therefore the fame motions may be performed here. • The articulation of the loWer-part of the os facrum to the os coccygis, feems well enough a'dapted for allowing con- flderable motion to this lad bone, were it not much confi- ned by llgamehtsi Laterally, the os facrum is joined to the ofTa ilium by an immoveable fynchondrolis, or what almoft deferves the name of a future; For the cartilagi- nous cruft on the furface of the bones is very thin; and both their furfaces are fo fcabrous and unequal, as to be indented into each other ; which makes fuch a drong coti- nedtion, that great force is required to feparate them, after all the mufcles and ligaments are cut.—Frequently the two bones grow together in old fubjedts. The lifts of the os facrum are, to ferve as the common bafe and fupport of the trunk of the body, to guard the nerves proceeding from the end of the fpinal marrow, to defend the back-part of the pelvis, and td afford fufficient origin to the mufcles which move the trunk and thigh. The bones that compofe the os facrum of infants, have their bodies feparated from each ocher by a thick cartilage ; and, in the fame manner as the true vertebra:, each of them confids of a body and two lateral plates, connedted together by cartilages j the ends of the plates feldom being contiguous behind. Os CoceVGis («), or rumf-hone^ is that triangular chain of bones depending from the os facrum; each bone beco- ming fmaller as they defeend, till the laft ends almoft in a point. The os coccygis,is convex behind, and concave before; from which crooked pyramidal figure, which was thouglit to rcfcmble a cuckow’s beak, it has got its name. X 2 This (fi) opc(, Cauda- os, fpdndylium os cuciili.OF THE SKELETON. Ji64 Parti This bone confifls of four pieces in people of middle age : —In children, almofh the whole of it is cartilage : In old fub- jeiEIs, all the bones are united, and become frequently one continued bone with the os facrum. The higheft of the four bones is tlie largefl, with fhoul- tlers extended farther to each Tide than the end of the os facrum; which enlargement fhould, in my opinion, ferve as a dillinguiniing mark to fix the limits of either bone *, and therefore fliould take away all difpute about reckoning the number of bones, of wliich one or other of thefe two parts of the falfe vertebrae is compofed ; which difpute muft ftill be kept up, as long as the numbering five or fix bones in the os facrum depends upon the uncertain accident of this broad fliouldered little bone being united to or fepara- ted from it.—The upper furface of this bone is a little hol- low. From the back of that bulbous part, called its ihoulders, a procefs often rifes up on each fide, to join with the bifurcated fpine of the fourth and fifth bones of the os facrum, to form the bony bridge mentioned iir the deferip- tion of the os facrum.—Sometimes thefe flioulders are join- ed to the fidcs of the fifth bone of the os fiicrum, to form the hole in each fide coinmon to thefe two bones, for the paffage of the twenty-ninth pair of fpinal nerves.—Immedi- ately below the fltoulders of the os coccygis, a notch may be remarked on each fide, where the tliirtieth pair of the fpiiKil nerves pafles. The lower end of this bone itf formed ii^ a fmall head,, which very often is hollow in the midille*-^ Tlie three lower bones gradually become fmaller, and are fpongy j but are drengthened by a drong ligament which covers and connttfls thern. 1 heir ends, by which they ;v,re articulated, are formed in the fame manner as thofe o^ the firft bone are. d3etween each of tliefe four bor.es of young fubjedls a cartilageChap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. 165 cartilage is interpofed; therefore their articulation is ana- logous to that of the bodies of the vertebrje of the neck; For, as has been above remarked, the lower end of the os facrum, and of each of the three fuperior bones of the os coccygis, has a fmall depreflion in the middle ; and the upper part of a}l the bones of the os cdccygis is a little con- cave, and confequently the interpofed cartilages are thickeft in the middle, to fill up both cavities ; by which they con- neft the bones more firmly.—When the cartilages offify, the upper end of each bone is formed into a cavity, exadliy adap- ted to the protuberant lower end of the bone immediately a- bove.—From this fort of articulation, it is evident, that, un- lefs when thefe bones grow together^ all of them are capable of motion; of which the firft and fecond, efpeclally this laft, enjoys the largeft fliare. The lower end of the fourth bone terminates in a rougli point, to which a cartilage is appended. To the fides of thefe bones of the os coccygis, the coccygsci % ' mufcles (0), and part of the levatores ani, and of the glutaei maxim'i, are fixed. The fubllance of thefe bones is very fpongy, and in chil- dren cartilaginous •, there being only a part of the firft bone oflified in a new born infant, Since therefore the intcfti- num re£l;um of children is not fo firmly fuppoVted as it is in adults, this may be one reafon why they are more fubje(ff to a procidentia ani than old people {'p). Frorn the defcription of this bone, we fee how little it refembles the vertebrae ; fmce it feldom has procefl'es, ne- ver has any cavity for, the fpinal marrOw, nor holes for the pafPage of nerves. Its connexion hinders it from being moved to either fide ; and its motion backwards and for- \ wards (0) Douglas, Myograph, chap. 40. Euftach. tab. 36. No 45. 20. (/>) Spigcl. dc humani corp-fabyic. Ub. 2. cap. 22. —Paaw dgollib. par. *. cap. 3.OF THE SKELETON. Part I. 166 wards Is much confined : yet, 2(s its ligaments can be ftretch- ed by a confiderable force, it is of great advantage in the excretion of the faeces alvinse, and much more in child- bearing, tliat this bone fhould remain moveable; and the right management of it, in delivering women, may be of great benefit to them (y). The mobility of the os coccy- gis diminifiiing as people advance in age, efpecially when its ligaments and cartilages have not been kept flexible by being ftretched, is probably one reafon why the women, who are old maids before they marry, have generally diffi- cult parturition. The os coccygis ferves to fuftain the inteftinum re£lum ; and, in order to perform this office more effedlually, it is made to turn with a curve forwards; by which alfo tike bone itfelf, as well as the mufcles and teguments, is pre- ferved from any injury w'hen we fit with our body reclined back. § 2. 0/ the Pelvis. The fecond part of the trunk of the flceleton, vizi the pelvis, is the cylindrical cavity at the lower part of the ab- domen formed by the os faefum, os coccygis, and ofla in- iiominata ; \f'hich lafl therefore fall now in courfe to be ex- amined. OSSA I N N O M I N A T A. Though the narhe of offa himm'mata (r) contributes no- thing to the knowledge of their fituation, flriuSture, or of- fice ; yet they have been fo long univerfally known by it, that there is no occafion for changing it. Uhey are two large broad bones, which form the fore-part and fides of rhe (q) Pa.iw', ibid. Devfer.ter, Opeiat. chirurg. cf.p. 27. Cr) Sarro conjunfla.Chap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. l6^ the pelvis, and the lower part of the Tides of the abdomen. In children, each of thefe bones is evidently divided into three ; which'are afterwards fo intimately united, that fcarce the leaft mark of their former feparation remains ; They are neverthelefs defcribed as confifling each of three bones, to wit, the os ilium, ifchium, and pubis; which I fliall firft defcribe feparately, and then fhall confider what is common to any two of them, or to all the three. Os ILIUM (s), or hauvch-bof:e, is fituated higheft of.the three, and reaches as far down as one third of the great cavity into which the head of the thigh-bone is received. The external fide of this bone is unequally convex, and is called its dorfum ;—the internal concave furface is by fomc authors (but improperly) named its c^a. d'he femicircu- lar edge at the higheft part of this bone, which is tipped with a cartilage in the recent fubjeft, is named the fpine^ into which the external or defcending oblique mufcle of the abdomen is inferted ; and from it the internal amend- ing oblique, and the tranfverfe mufcles of the belly, with the glutaeus maximus, quadratus lumborum, and latifiimus dorfi, have their origin. Some writers {t) are of opinion, that it is only the tendinous cruft of all thefe mufcles, and not a cartilage, as is commonly alledged, that covers this bony edge. The ends of the fpine being more prominent than the futface of the bone below them, are therefore; reckoned proceftes From the anterior fpinal procefs, (he fartorius and fafcialis mufcles have their rife, and ^he outer end of the doubled tendon of the external oblique mufcle of the abdomen, commonly called Fallopius'^ or Poupart's ligament, is fixed to it. The infide of the pofte- rior fpinal procefs, and of part of the fpine forward from that,. (j) Aayovov Xfvfay, Scaphium, lumbarc, cluniiinfi, claviiim, anemias. (0 Winflow, Expofition anatomique du corps humain. traitu des os frais f168 OF THE SKELETON. Part I- that, is made flat and rough where the facro-lumbalis and longHTimus dorfi rife; and to its outfide are fixed liga- ments extended to the os facrum and tranfverfe procefles of the fifth and fourth vertebrae of the loins (w) Below the anterior fpinal procefs another protuberance ftands out, .which by its fituation may be diftinguiflied from the for- mer, by adding the epitliet of inferior^ where the mufculus redlus tibiae has its origin (.v).—Between thefe two anterior procelTes the bone is hollowed where the beginning of the fartorius mufcle is lodged. Below the pofterior fpinal procefs, a fecond protuberance of the edge of this bone is in like manner obfervable, which is clofely applied to the , os facrum. Under this lall procefs a eonfiderable large niche is obfervable in the os ilium ; between the fides of which and the ftrong ligament that is ftretched over from the os facrum to the fliarp pointed procefs of the os ifehium of the recent fubjetfl, a large hole is formed, through which the mufculus pyriformis, the great fciatic nerve, and the poflerior crural veflels, pafs, and are .prote£led from compfelfion. The external broad fide, or dorfum of the os ilium, is a little hollow towards the fore-part; farther back, it’ is as much raifed ; then is connderably concave; and, laftly, it is convex. Thefe inequalities are occafioned by the ac- tions of the mufclcs that are fituated on this furface. From behind the uppermoft of the two anterior fpinal pro- ceflTes, in fuch bones as are ftrongly marked by the muf- cles, a femicircuhir ridge is extended to the hollow paflage of the fciatic nerve. Between the fpine and this ridge, the gluteus medius takes its rife. Immediately from above the lowed of the anterior fpinal procefles, a fecond ridge is ftretched to the niche. Between this and tlie former ridge, (i/) Weitbrecht, Synclefmbl^. fcifV. 4. § 39, 40. 46. 47. rjc) B4kcr, Cui’f. Orteolog. demonftr. 3.BONES OF TH^: TRUNK. Chap. II. 169 ridge, the gluticus minimus has its origin On the out- fide of the pofterior fpinal proceffes, the dorfum of the os ilium is flat and rough, where part of the mufculus glutfc- us m.iximus and pyriformis rlfcS. The lowefl; part of this bone is the thickeft, and is formed into a large cavity with high brims, to aflifl; in c'ompofing the great acetabulum ; which fliall be cdnfidered, after all the three bones that con- ftitute the os innominatiim are defcribed. The internal furface of the os ilium is concave in its broadefl; fore-part, where the internal iliac mufcle has its origin, and where fome fliare of the inteftimim ilium and co- lon is lodged. From this large hollow, a fmall finuofity is continued obliquely forwards, at the infide of the anterior inferior fpinal procefs, where part of the pfoas and iliacus mufcles, with the crural veflels and nerves, pafs.—The large concavity is bounded below by a fliarp ridge, which runs from behind forwards; and, being continued with fuch an- other ridge of the os pubis^ forms a line of partition between the abdomen and pelvis. Into this ridge the broad tendon I of the pfoas parvus is inferred. ' All the infernal furface of the 6s ilium, behind this ridge, is very unequal: For the upper part is flat, but fpon^y, where the facro-lumbalis and longiflimus dorfi- rife. Lov/sr down, there^ is a tranfveffe ridge from which ligaments go out to the os facrum. — Immediately below this ridge, the rough unequal cavities and promi- nences are placed, which arc exadlly adapted to thofe de- fcribed on the fide of the os facrum. In the fame man- ner, the upper part of this rough furface is porous, for the firmer adhefion of the ligamentous cellular fubftance; while the lower part is more folid, and covered with a thin cartilaginous fldn, for its immoveable articulation with the os facrum. From all the circumference of this large unequal furface, ligaments are extended to the os VoL. 1. Y facrum,170 ' OF T n't: SKELETON. Part L fiicrum, to fecure more firmly the conjundllon of thefe bones. The paffages of the medullary veflels are very confpicuous, both in the dorfum and cofta of many ofla ilium j but in others they are inconfiderable. The pofterior and lower parts of thefe bones are thick ; but they are generally exceedingly thin and compa£t at their mid- dle, where they are expofed to the a£lions of the mufculi glutsei and iliacus internus, and to the preflure of the bowels contained in the belly—The fubftance of the ofla ilium is moftly cellular, except a thin external table. In a ripe child, the fpine of the 'os ilium is cartilagi- nous ; and is afterwards joined to the bone, ,in form of an epiphyfe.— The large lower end of this bone is not com- pletely offifitd. Os Ischium (y), or hip-bone, is of a middle bulk between the two other parts of the os innominatum, is fituated lo'weft of the»|hree, and is of a very irregular figure. Its extent might be marked by a horizontal line drawn near through the middle of the acetabulum ; for the upper bulbous part of this bone forms rather lefs than the lower half of that great cavity, and the fmall leg of it rifes to much the fame height on the other fide of the great hole common to this bone and the os pubis. From the upper thick part of the os ifchium, a (harp pro- ccfs, called by fome authors fpinous, ftands out backwards, from which chiefly the-mufculus coccygseus and fuperior gemellus, and part of the levator ani, rife ; and the ante- rior or internal facrofciatic ligament is fixed to it. Between the upper part of this ligament and the bones, it was for- merly obferved that the pyriform mufcle, the pofterior crural veflels, and the fciatic nerve, pafs out of the pelvis. — Im- ^yj Coxa?, coxcndicls, pyxU,Chap.ir. BONES OF THE TRUNK. 171 if- —Immediately below this procefs, a fimiofity is formed ' for the tendon of the mufculus obturator internus. In a recent fubjeft this part of the bone, which fcrves as a pul> ley on which the obturator mufcle plays, is covered with a ligamentous cartilage, that, by two or three fmall ridges, points out the interftices of the fibres in the* tendon of this mufcle.—The outer furface of the bone at the root of this fpinous procefs is made hollow by the pyriformis or iliacus externus mufcle. Below the finuofity for the obturator mufcle, is the great knob or tuberofity, covered w'ith cartilage or tendon (s). The upper part of the tuberofity gives rife to the in- ferior gemellus mufcle. To i ridge at the infide of this the external or pofterior facrofciatic ligament is fo fixed, that between it, the internal ligament, and the finuofity of the os ifchium, a paflage is left for the internal obturator ‘ mufcle. ^The upper thick fmooth part of the tuher^ called by fome its dorfum, has two oblique impreffions on it. The inner one gives origin to the long head of the bi- ceps flexor tibiae, and feminervofus mufcles; and the fe- mimembranofus rifes from the exterior one,-, which reaches higher and nearer the acetabulum than the other The low'er, thinner, more fcabrous part of the knob which bends forwards, is alfo marked with two flat furfaces j whereof the internal is what we lean upon in fitting, and the external gives rife to the larged hdt^d of the triceps adduftor femoris. Between the external margin of the tu- berofity and the great hole of the os innominatum, there i-r is frequently an obtufe ridge extended down from the ace- tabulum, which gives origin to tlie quadratus femoris- — As the tuber advances forwards, it becomes fmaller, and is rough, for the origin of the mufculus tranfverfalis and ^ eredlor penis.--The fmall leg of it, w’hich mounts upw'ards ■Y 2 to (a) Wyiflq^w, Erpofit. Anat. dcs os frais, § 9#,172 OF THE SKELETON. ^ Parti, % to join file os pubis, is rough and prominent at its edge, where the two lower heads of the triceps or quadriceps adduftor femorls take their rife. The upper and back-part of the os ifchium Is broad and , thick; but its lower and fore-part is narrower and thin- fubftance is of the flru£lure common to broad bones. The os ilium and pubis of the fame fide are the only bones ■which are contiguous to the os ifchium. The part of the os ifchium, -wLich forms the acetabulum, the fpinous procefs, the great tuber, and the recun'ed leg, are^all cartilaginous at birth.—The tuber, with part of the leg or procefs above it, becomes an epiphyfe before this bone is fully formed. ^ The Os Pubis (a), fiare-boncy is the lead of the three parts of the os irmoininatum, and is placed at the upper fore-part of it. The thick largeft part of this bone is employed in forming the acetabulum; from w'hich be- coming much fmallcr, it is flretched inwards to its fellow of the other fide, where it again grows larger, and fends a fmall branch dowmvards to join the end of the fmall leg of ' the os ifchium. The upper fore-part of each os pubis is tuberous and rough where the mufculus re£lus and py- ramidalis are inferted. From this a ridge is extended.along the upper edge of the bone, in a continued line with fuch another of the os ilium, which divides the abdomen and pelvis. The ligament of Fallopius is fixed to the internal end of this ridge, and the fmooth hollo\v below it is made by the pfoas and iliacus internus mufcles palTing with the anterior crural vcffels and nerves behind the ligament.— Some way below the former ridge, another is extended from the tuberous part of the os pubis dowmwards and outwards («) Pcilinis, pepis, ppcllbundum, fenellratum.173 Chap. n. BONES O F THE TRUNK. outwards towards the acetabulum j between thefe two ridges the bone is hollow and fmooth, for lodging the head of the peclineus mufcle. Immediately,below, where the lower ridge is to take the turn downwards, a winding niche is made, which is comprehended m the great fora- rnen’of a fkeleton; but is formed into a hole by a fubtend- ed ligament in the recent fubjtcR, for the paffige of the pofterior crural nerve, an artery, and a vein. The inter- nal end of the os pubis is rough and unequal, for the firm- er adhefion ' of the thick ligamentous cartilage that con- neefts it to its fellow of the other fide: The procefs which goes down from that to the os ifclnum Is broad and rough before, where the gracilis and upper heads of the 'triceps, or rather quadriceps, addudlor femorla have their ori- gin. The fubftance of the os pubis is the fame as of other broad bones. Only a part of the large pnd of this bone is oflified, and the whole leg is cartilaginous, in a child born at the full time. Between the os Ifchium and pubis a very large irregular ' hole is left, which, from its refemblance to a door or fiiield, has been called thproides. This hole is all, except • the niche for the pofterior crural nerve, filled up, in a re- cent fubjedl, with a ftrong ligamentous membrane, that adheres very firmly to its circumference. From this mem-? brane chiefly the two obturator mufclcs, external and in- ternal, take their rife. The great defign of this hole, be- fides rendering the bone lighter, is to allow a ftrong enough origin to the obturator mufcles, and fufllcicnt fpace for lodging their bellies, that there may be no dan- ger of difturbing the funftions of the contained vifeera of the pelvis by the a£lions of the Internal, nor of the exter- nal being bruifed.by the thigh bone, efpecially by its lefley ^rochariter,I 174 OF THE SKELETON. Parti. trochanter, m the motions of the thigh Inwards: Both which inconveniencies muft have happened, had the olTa innominata been complete here, and of fufficient thicknefs and ftrength to ferve as the fixed point of thefe mufcles. Tlie bowels fomeiimes make their way through the niche for. the veffels, at the upper part of this thyroid hole ; and this caufes a hernia in this place [b). In the external furface of the olTa innominata, near the outfide of the great hole, a large deep cavity is formed by all the three bones conjunclly : For the os pubis conflitutes about one fifth, the os ilium makes fomething lefs than two fifths, and the os ifehium as much more than two fifths. The brims of this cavity are very high, and are ftill much more enlarged by the ligamentous cartilage, with which they are tipped in a recent fubjedf. From this form of the cavity it has been called acetabulum; and for a diftinguifliing character the name of the bone that con- rtitutes the largeft fliare of it is added', therefore acetabu- lum ojfis ifchii (c) is the name this cavity commonly bears. Round the bafe of the fupercilia the bone is rough and un- equal, where the capfular ligament of the articulation is fixed. The brims at the upper and back part of the ace- tabulum are much larger and higher than any where clfe; which is very neceflary to prevent the head of the femur from flipping out of its cavity at this place, where the whole weight of the body bears upon it, and confequently would otherwife be in perpetual danger of thrufling it out. As thefe brims are extended downwards and forwards, they become lefs; and at their internal lower part a breach is made in them ; from the one fide of which to the other, a ligament is placed in the recent fubje£l; under which a large hole is left, which contains a fatty cellular fubftance and veflels. The reafon of which appearance has afforded matter (//) Memoires dc I’acad. de chirurgic, tom I, p. 7O9. &c. [c) CoxaCj coxcndicTs.Chap.IT. BONES OF THE TRUNK. '75 matter of debate. To me it feems evidently contrived for allowing a larger motion to the thigh inwards: For if the bony brims had been here continued, the neck of die thigh-bone mufl have ftruck upon them when the thighs were brought acrofs each other ; which, in a large flrong motion this way, would have endangered the neck of the one bone, or brim of the other. Then the veflTels which are diftributed to the joint may fafely enter at the finuofity in the bottom of the breach; which being, however, lar- ger than is neceflary for that purpofe, allows' the larger mucilaginous gland of the joint to efcape below the liga- ment, when the head- of the thigh-rbone is in hazard of prefTmg too much upon it in the motions of the thigh out- wards {d). Befides this difference in the height of the brims, the acetabulum is otherwife unequal; for the lower internal part of it is depreffed below the cartilaginous fur- face of the upper part, and is not covered with cartilage; into the upper part of this particular depreffion, where it is deepell and of a /emilunar form, the ligament of the thigh-bone, commonly, though improperly, called the round one, is inferted ; while, in its more fuperficial low'er part, the large mucilaginous gland of this joint is lodged. The greatell part of this feparate deprelTion is formed in the os ifchium. ' From what has been faid of the condition of the three ' bones compofing this acetabulum in new born children, it muft be evident that a confiderable part of this cavity is car- tilaginous in them. The oJa innominata are joined at their back-part to each fide of the os facrum by a fort of future, with a very thin intervening cartilage, which ferves as fo much glue to ce- , ment thofe bones together ; and flrong ligaments go from 'he (</) Petit. Mcmoircs de I’acatl. dcsfcienccs, I7aj.^76 Part I* OF THE SKELETON. {£) Ludov. m Ephitn. German, dec. l. _ann. 3. obf. 255. i the circurnference of this unequal furface, to connect them more firmly. The olTa innominata are conne£ted together at their fore-part by the ligamentous cartilage interpofecl between the two ofla pubis. Thefe bones can therefore have no motion in a natural ftate, except what is common to the trunk of the body, or to the os fiicrum, But it has been difputed, whether or not they loofcn fo much from each other, and from the os facrum, in child-birth, by the flow of mucus to the pelvis, and by the throes of labour, as that the ofiTa pubis recede from each other, and thereby . allow the paflage between the bones to be enlarged. Seve- ral obfervations (e) flicw that this relaxation fometimes happens: But thofe who had frequently opportunities of difleiSling the bodies of women who died immediately after being delivered of children, teach us to beware of regarding this as the common effect of child-birth j for they found fuch a relaxation in very few of the bodies which tliey examined (/)• Confidering the great weight that is fupported in oUr e- re£t pollure, by the articulation of the ofla innominata with the os facrum,' there is great reafon to think, that if the con- glutinated furfaces of thefe bones were once feparated, (with- out which the ofla pubis cannot fliuffle on each other), the ligaments would be violently flretched, if not -torn : from v hence many diforders would arife (g)* Each os innominatum affords a focket (the acetabulum) for the thigh-bones to m'ove in ; and the trunk of the bo- dy rolls here fo much on the heads of the thigh-bones, as to allow the mofl confpicuous motions of the trunk, which are commonly thought to be performed by the bones of the (e) Bauch'm. Theat. anat, lib. I. cap. 49—SpJgcl. Anat. lib. a. c. 14.— Rician. Anthropog. lib. 6. cap. 12.—Diemerbrock, Anat. lib. 9. cap. 16. (/) Hildan. cpill. cent. obf. 46.—Dionis Sixieme demonftrat. dcsos.— Morgagn. Adverf. 3. animad. 15.Chap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. ly the fpitic. This articulation is to be more fully defcribed after the oflii femoris are examined. The pelvis, then, has a large open above where it is con- tinued with the abdomen ; is Itrongly fenced by bones on the fides, back and fote-part j and appears with a wide opening belowi in the Ikeleton; but, in a recent fubjeft, a confiderable part of the opening is filled by the facrofciatic ligaments, pyriform, internal obturator, levatores ani, ge- mini, and coccygaei mufcles, which fupport and prote£l the contained parts better than bones could have done; fo that fpace is only left at the lowefl; part of it, for the large excretories, the vefica urinaria, intellinum rectum, and in females, the uterus, to difeharge themfelves. § 3. Bones of the Thorax. The Thorax, (i6), or chejl, which is the only part of the trunk of the body that we have not yet defcribed, reaches from below the neck to the belly ; and, by means of the bones that guard it, , is formed into a large cavity: The figure of it is fomewhat conoidal:. but its upper fmal- Icr end is not finilhed, being left open for the paflage of the wind-pipte, gullet, and large blood velTels ; and its low- er part or bafe, has no bones, and is fhorter before than behind ; fo that, to carry on our comparifon, it appears like an oblique lection of the conoid. Befides which, we ought alfo to remark, that the lower part of this cavity is narrower than feme way above (1); and that the middle of its back'part is confiderably diniinilhed by the bones Handing forwards into it. The bones which form the thorax are the twelve dorfal vertebrse behind, the ribs on the fides, and the llernum be- fore. VoL. I. Z The {h) Pe£tus caflum. (;) AJbin. deoflib. §169. 1Part OF THE SKELETON. The vertebrae have already been dcfcribed as part of the fpine; and therefore are now to be palTed. T H E R I B S. The Ribs, or (^), (as if they were or guards, to thofe principal organs of the animal machine, the heart and lungs), are the long crooked bones placed at the fide of the cheft, in an oblique dire£tion downwards in refpeft of the back-bone.—Their number is generally twelve on each fide j though frequently eleven or thirteen have been found {/).—-Sometimes the ribs are found preternaturally conjoin- ed or divided [m). The ribs are all concave internally ; where they are alfo made fmooth by the a£Hon of the contained parts, which, on this account, are in no danger of being hurt by them 5 and they are convex externally, that they tnight refill that part of the prefiure of the atmofpKere which is not balan- ced by the air within the lungs during injp'iration. The ends of the ribs next the vertebra: are rounder than they are after thefe bones have advanced forwards, when they become flatter and broader, and have an upper and lower edge; each of which is made rough by the afilion of the intercoflal mufcles inferted into them. Thefe mufcles, be- ing all of nearly equal force, and equally ftretched in the interftices of the ribs, prevent the broken ends of thefe bones, in a fradlure, from being removed far out of their natural place, to interrupt the motion of the vital organs. —The upper edge of the ribs is more obtufe and rounder than tlie lower, which is depreflTed on its internal fide by a (i) nKtvpcUf sriptrcpycc, irs'a3’«i. ^ (/) Riolan. Comment, de oITibus, cap. 19.—Marchetti, cap. 9. Cowpc* Explicat. tab. 93, and 94. Morgagn. Adverf. Anat. (?n) Sue, Trad, d’ofleoloj. p. 14*.Chap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. 179 a long foflfa, for lodging the intercoftal veflels and nerves ; on each fide of M'hich there is a ridge, to which the inter' coital mufcles are fixed. The fofla is not obfervablc, how- ever, at either end of the ribs ; for, at the pollerior or root, the vellels have not yet reached the ribs *, and, at the fore- end, they arc fplit away into branches, to ferve the parts between the ribs: Which plainly teaches furgeons one r;a- fon of the greater fafety of performing the operation of the empyema towards the fides of the thorax, than either near the back or the breafl. At the pollerior end (n) of each rib, a^little head is formed, which is divided by a middle ridge into two plain or hollow furfaccs; the lowell of which is the broadell and deepell in moll of them. The two plains are joined to the bodies of two different vertebrae, and the ridge for- ces itfelf into the intervening cartilage A little way from this head, we find on the external furface, a fmall cavity, where mucilaginous glands are lodged ; and round the head, the bone appears fpongy, where the capfular liga- ment of the articulation is fixed. Immediately beyond this a flatted tubercle rifes, with a fmall cavity at, and roughnefs about, its root, for the articulation of the rib wkh the tranfverfe procefs of the lowell of the two verte- brae, with the bodies of which the head of the rib is join- ed. Advancing farther on this epcternal furface, we ob- ferve in moll of the ribs another fmaller tubercle. Into which ligaments conne£ling the ribs to each other, and to the tranfverfe procefTes of the vertebrae and portions of the longiffimus dorfi, are inferted.—Beyond this the ribs ar? made flat by the facro-lumballs mufcle, which is inferted into the part of this flat furface farthell from the fpine, where each rib makes a confiderable curve, called by fome ife angle.—Then the rib begins to turn broad, and conti- Z nues (s) Kujrtoy, R^nilu?.-OF THE SKELETON. Parti., (9) Havei.c, Odcolog. Nov. dife. 5. p. 389. i8o nues fo' to its anterior end (o), which is hol’ow and fpon- py, for'the reception of, and firm coalition with, the car- tilage that runs thence to be infertcd into the (hernum, or to be joined with fome other cartilage In adults, the cavity at this end of the ribs is generally fmooth and poliflied on its furface ; by which the articulation of the cartilage wi:h it has the appearance of being defigned for motion, but it has none. The fubjlance of the ribs is fpongy, cellular, and only covered with a very thin external lamellated furface, which increafes ih thicknefs and Ilrength as it approaches the ver- tebrae. To the fore-end of each rib a long, broad, and ftrong cartilage is fixed, and reaches thence to the fternum, or is joined to the cartilage of the next rib. 'I'his courfe, how- ever, is not in a ftraight line with the rib : for the carti- lages generally make a confiderable curve, the concave part of which is upwards ; therefore, at their infertion into the fternum, they make an obtufe angle above, and an acute one below.—*—Thefe cartilages are of fuch a length as ne- ver to allow the ribs to come to a right angle with the fpine ; but they keep them fituated fo obliquely as to make the angle very confiderably obtufe, above, till a force ex- ceeding the elafticity of the cartilage is applied.—Thefe car- tilages, as all others, arc firmer and harder internally than they are ©n their external furface ; and fometimes in old people, all their tniddle fubftance becomes bony, while a thin cartilaginous lamella appears externally (p). The of- fification, however, begins frequently at the external fur- face.—The greateft alternate motions of the cartilages being made at their great curvature, that part remains frequently cartilaginous after all the reS: is oflified (q). (o) nx«T», Palmuli. (/>) Vefal. lib. a. cap. 19.Chap.II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. i8i The ribs then are artimlated at each end, of which the one behind is doubly joined to the vertebrae ; for the head is received into the cavities of two bodies of tlie vertebra?, and the larger tubercle is received into the depreflion in tlie tranfverfe procefs of the lower vertebra. When w'c examine the double articulation, we muft immediately fee that no other motion can be allowed here than upwards and downwards; fince the tranfverfe procefs hinders the rib to be thvuft hack ; the refiftance on the other fide of the flernum prevents the ribs coming forward; and each of the two joints, with the other parts attached, oppofe its turning round. But then it is likewife as evident, that even the motion upwards and downtyards can be but fmall in any one rib at the articulation itfelf. But as the ribs advance forwards, tlie difiance from their center of motion increafing, the motion muft be larger ; and it would be very confpicuous at their anterior ends, w'ere they not re- fifted there by the cartilages, wliich yield fo little, that the principal motion is performed by the middle part of the ribs, which turns outwards and upwards, and occafions the twift remarkable in'the long ribs at the place near their fore- .end w’here they are moft refifted (r). ^ Hitherto I have laid down the ftruffure and coune£lion / which moft of the ribs enjoy, as belonging to all of them ; but muft now confider the fpecialities wdierein any of them differ from the general defeription given, or from each o- ther. In viewing the ribs from above downwards, their figure is ftill ftraighter; the uppermoft being the moft crooked of any Their obliquity in refpedb of the fpine increafes as they defeend; fo that though their diftances from each other is very little different at their back-part, yet at their fore- ends the diftances betw'een the lower ones • muft increafe. —In (r) Winflow, Mempires de I’acad. des fciences, 1730.OF THE SKELETON. Panl. 182 In confequence, too, of this increafed obliquity of the lower ribs, each of their cartilages makes a greater curve in its progrefs from the rib towards the fternum ; and the tubercles, that are articulated to the tranfverfe procefles of the vertebrae, have their fmooth furfaces gradually facing more upwards The ribs becoming thus more oblique, while the fternum advances forwards in its dcfcent, makes the diftance between the fternum and the anterior end of the lower ribs greater than between the fternum and the ribs above; confequently the cartilages of thofe ribs that are joinejd to the breafl-bone are longer in the lower than in the higher ones. Thefe cartilages are placed nearer to each other as the ribs defcend, which occafions the curva- ture of the eartllages to be greater. The length of the ribs increafes from the firfl and up- permoft rib, as far down as the 'feventh ; and from that to the twelfth, it gradually dimiuifhes. The fuperior of the two plain, or rather hollow furfaces, by which the ribs are articulated to the bodies of the vertebrae, gradu- ally increafe from the firfl to the fourth rib, and is di- ininlfhed after that in each lower nb.—The dillance of their angles from the heacfs always increafes as they de- fcend to the ninth, becaufe of the greater breadth of the facrp- lumbalis mufcle (j-). The ribs are commonly divided into true and falfe. The true (t) coftje are the feven upper ones of each fide, whofe cartilages are all gradually longer as the ribs defcend, and are joined to the breaft-bone: fo that, being prefled conflantly between two bone's, they are flatted at both ends; and are thicker, harder, and more liable to offify, than the other cartilages that are not fubjeft to fo much pref- fure. Thefe ribs include the heart and lungs : and therefore are the proper or true custodes of life. The (j) Winflow, Expofition anatomiqiic des os fees, §64^. (/) rnis-/a/, Germans, legitim«.Chap.ir. BONES OF THE TRUNK. 183 The five inferior ribs of each fide arc the falfe or ba- Jiard («), whofe cartilages do not reach to the fternum ; and therefore, wanting the refiftance at their fore-part, they are there pointed; and on this account, having lefs preflure, their fubftance is fofter The cartilages of tliefe falfe ribs are fiiorter as the ribs defcend.—To all thefe five ribs the circular edge of the diaphragm is connedled : and its fibres, inftead of being ftretched immediately tranf- verfely, and fo running perpendicular to the ribs, are pref- fed fo as to be often, efpecially in exfpiration, parallel to the plane in which the ribs lie: Nay, one may judge by the attachments which thefe fibres have fo frequently to the fides of the thorax a confiderable way above where their extremities are inferted into the ribs, and by the fituation of the vifcera always to be obferved in a dead fubjedl laid fupine, that there is conftantly a large concavity formed on each fide by the diaphragm within thefe baftard ribs, in which the ftomach, liver, fpleen, &c. are contained 5 which being only reckoned among the vifcera naturalia, have o'cca- fioned the name of bajiard cujlodes to thefe bones. Hence, in fimple fradlures of the falfe ribs, without fe- ver, the ftomach ought to be kept moderately filled with food, left the pendulous ribs falling inwards, fliould there- by increafe the pain, cough, &c. (x).—^—Hence likewife we may learn how to judge better of the feat of feveral difeafes, and to do the operation of the empyema, and fome others, with more fafety than we can do if we follow the common diredlions. The eight upper ribs were formerly (y) clalTed into pairs, with particular names to each two *, to wit, the crooied, tlie /aid, (u) Mctx3-axa/, y^ovSfot^oc, ax«v3-o«, x7fKf, foyi, Adultrinar, rptinx, ille- gitinix. (*) Hippocrat. dcarticulo, §51. Par^, lib. 15. cap. ii. O') Laurent. Hift. Anat. lib. 2. cap. 29 Paaw, de ofnbu<>, par? ■?. esp-. a.Parf I. OF THE SKELETON. 184 JoUd, the pectoral^ tlie iujified: But ihefe names arc of fo little ufe, that they are now generally neglecled. The firft rib of each fide is fo fituated, that the flat fides are above and below, while one edge is placed inwards and the other outwards, or nearly fo: therefore fufficient fpace is left above it for the fubclavian veflels and mufcles; and the broad concave furf^ace- is oppofed to the lungs. But then, in confequence of this fituation, the channel for the intercoftal veflels is not to 'be found ; and the edges are differently formed from all the other, except the fecond ; the lower one being rounded, and the other fharp. . The head of this rib is not divided into two plain furfaces by a middle ridge, becaufe it is only articulated with the firlt vertebra of the thorax. Its cartilage is oflified in a- dults, and is united to tl>e fternum at right angles. This fnfl; rib frequently has a ridge rifing near the middle of its poflevior edge, where one of the heads of the fcale- iius mufcles rifes. Farther forward it is flatted, or fometimes deprefled by the clavicle. '•The fifth, fixth, and feventh, or rather the fixth, fc- vcnth, eighth, and fonjetimes the fifth, fixth, feventh^ eighth, and ninth ribs, have their cartilages at leaft contigu- ous ; and they are frequently joined to each other by crofs cartilages ; and mofh commonly the cartilages of the eighth, ninth, and tenth, are connected to the former and to each o- ther by firm ligaments. , The eleventh, and fometimes the tenth rib, has no tu- bercle for its articulation with the tranfverfe procefs of the vertebra, to which it is only loofcly fixed by ligaments. The fofla in its lower edge is not fo deep as in tlrffe upper ribs, bccaufe the veflels run more towards the intcrflice between the ribs. Its fore-end is fmaller than its body, and its fliort fmall cartilage is but loofely connetSIcd to t.he cartilage of the rib -above. TheChap. ir. BONES OF THE TRUNK. 185 The twelfth rib is the fhorteft and ftraighteft. Its head is only articulated with the lad vertebra of the tho- rax 5 therefore is not divided into two furfaces. 1 his rib is not joined to the tranfverfe procefs of the verte- bra ; and therefore has no tpbercle, being often pulled necelTanly inwards by the diaphragm, which an articulation with the tranfverfe procefs would not have allowed. I'he folia is not found at its under edge, becaufe the vef- fcls run below it. The fore-part of this rib is fmallcr than its middle, and has only a very fmall pointed cartilage fixed to it. To its whole internal fide the diaphragm is conne£led. The motions and ufes of the ribs fhall be more particularly treated of after the defeription of the (lernum. The heads and tubercles of the ribs of a new-born child have cartilages on them ; part of which becomes afterwards thin epiphyfes. The bodies of the ribs encroach gra- dually after birth upon the cartilages ; fo that the latter are proportionally Ihorter, wh^ compared to the ribs, in adults than invchildren. Here I cannot help remarking the wife Providence of our Creator, in preferring us from perifiiing as foon as we come into the word. The end of the bones of the limbs remain in a cartilaginous ftate after birth, and are many years before they are entirely united to the main body of their feveral bones ; whereas the condytes of the occipital bone, and of the lower jaw, are true original procefles, and ofiified before birth ; and the heads and tubercles of the ribs are nearly in the fame condition : and therefore the weight of the large head is firmly fupported ; the a£lions of fucking, fwallowlng, refpiration, &c. which are'indif- penfably neceffary for us as foon as we come into the world, are performed without danger of feparating the parts of the bones that are mod prelTed on In thefe motions : Wheieas, had thefe procefies of the head, jaw, and ribs, VoL. I. A a beenPart I. i86 OF THE S KELETON. X been epiphyfes at birth, children muft have been expofed to danger of dying by fuch a reparation ; the immediate confe- quences of which would be the comprefTion of the -beginning of the fpinal marrow, or want of food, or a flop put to refpiration. ‘THE STERN U M. The fternum (2), or breaft-bonc, is the broad flat bone, , or pile of bones, at the fore part of the thorax. The num- ber of bones into which this flrould be divided, has occa- fioned debates among anatomifls, who have confidered it in fubjedls of different ages. In adults of a middle age, it is compofcd of three bones, which eafily feparate after the cartilages connecting them aire deftroyed. The two low- er bones are frequently found intimately united ; and very often, in old people, the fternum is a continued bony ful> fiance from one end to the other ; though we ftill obferve two, fomelimes three, tranfverfe lines on its furface j which arc marks of the former divlfions. When we confidej- the fternum as one bone, we find it broadeft and thickefl above, and becoming fmaller as it defeends. The internal furface of this bone is fomewhat hollowed for enlarging the thorax : but the convexity on the external furface is not fo confpicuous, becaufe the fides are prefted outwards by the true ribs ; the round heads of whofe cartilages are received into feven fmooth pits formed in each fide of the fternum, and are kept firm there by ftrong ligaments, which on the external furface have a particular radiated texture (a). The cartilaginous fibres frequently thruft themfelves into the bony fubftance of the fternum, and are joined by a fort of future. Ihe pits at the upper-part of the fternum are at the greateft dif- tance (e) Ospcfloris, tnfiforme, feutum coidU. Ruyfeh, Catalog. Rar. fig. 9.aiap. II. BONES OF THE TRUNK. 187 tance one from another, and, as they defccnd, are nearer •, .fo that the two loweft are contiguous. The fubjlaiice of the breall bone is cellular, wiph a very tliin external plate, efpecially on its internal furface, where we may frequently obferve a cartilaginous cruft fpread over it {b).—On both furfaces, however, a ftrong ligamentous membrane is clofely braced ; and the cells of this bone are fo fm:dl, that a coiifiderable quantity of ofleous fibres muft be employed in the compofition of it. Whence, with the defence which the mufclesgive it, and the moveable fupport it has from the cartilages, it is fulficiently fecured from being broken : for it is ftrong by its quantity of bone, its parts are kept together by ligaments ; and it yields enough to elude conGderably any violence offered (r). So far may be faid of this bone in general; but the three bones, of which, according to the common account, it is compofed in adults, arg each to be examined. The firjly all agree, is fomewhat of the figure pf a heart, as it is commonly painted ; only it does not terminate in a fliarp point This is the itppermoft thickeft part of the fternum. i The upper middle part of this firft bone, where it is thickeft, is hollowed, to ittake place for the trachea arte- ria , though this cavity [d) is principally formed by the • bone being raifed on each fide of it, partly by the clavicles thrufting it inwards, and partly by the fterno-maftoidei mufcles pulling it upwards. On the outfide of each tu- bercle there is an oblong cavity, that, in viewing it tranf- verfely from before backwards, appears a little convex Into thefe glenae, the ends of the clavicle are received.— Immediately below thefe, the fides of this bone begin to A a 2 tun; (i) Jac. Sylv. in Galen ileoffibtis, it, («) Scnac, in Memoir*^ de I’acad. des feience#, 1734, ^ * (V) Xyayi), Jugulwm, fi»4 tula fupcrivi'. ' /OF THE SKELETON. ' Tart I. ?88 turn thinner ; and in each a fuperficial cavity or a rough furface is to be feen, where the firft ribs are received or joined to the aernum. In the fide of the under end of this firft bone, the half of the pit for the fecond rib on each fide is formed The upper part of the furface be- hind is covered with a ftrong ligament, which fecures the clavicles; and is afterwards to be more particulatly taken no- tice of. The fecond or middle divifion of this bone is much long- er, narrower, and thinner, than the firft ; but excepting that it is a little narrower above than below, it is nearly equal all over in its dimenfiens of breadth or thicknefs. —- In the fides of it are complete pits for the third, fourth, fifth, and fixth ribs', and an half of the pits for the fecond and feventh ; the lines, which are marks of the former divifion of this bone, being extended from the mid- dle of the pits of one fide to the middle of the correfpond- ing pits of the other fide. Near its middle an unoflified part of .the bone is fometimes found ; which, freed of the ligamentous menibrane or cartilage that fills it, is defcribtd as a hole : and in this place, for the moft part, we may obferve a tranfverfe line, which has made authors divide this bone into two.—When the cartilage between this and the firft bone is not oftified, a manifeft motion of this upon the firft may be obferved in refpiratlon, or in raifing the fternum, by pulling the ribs upwards, or diftending the lungs with air in a recent fubje£l. The third bone is much lefs than the other tw'o, and has only one half of the pit for the feventh rib formed in it; wherefore it might be reckoned only an appendix of the fternum.——In young fubjects it is aUvays cartilaginous, and is better known by the name of cariilago xiphoides or enffortnis [e) than any other ; though the antients often called (0 Clypealis, gladialis, mucronata, malum granatum, feutum fiomachi* epiglottalis, cultralisj medium "''uis, feutiformis, cnficulata.Chap. IL BONES OF THE TRUNK. 189 called the whole fternum enjtformecomparing the two firll bones to the handle, and this appendix to the blade of a fword. This third bone is fcldom of the fame figure, magnitude, or fituation, in any two fubjedls; for fomc- times it is a plain triangular bone, with one of the angles below, and perpendicular to the middle of the upper fide, by which it is connedled to the fccond bone In other people the point is turned to one fide, or obliquely for- wards or backwards. Frequently it is all nearly of an equal breadth, and in feveral fubjedls it is bifurcated ; whence fome writers give it the name of furcella or furcula inferior ; or elfe it is unolTified in the middle In the greatcll number of adults it is offified, aud tipped with a cartilage ; in fome, one half of it is cartilaginous ; and in others, it is all in a cartilaginous flate. Generally feveral oblique ligaments, fixed at one end to the cartilages of the' ribs, and by the other to the outer furface of the xiphoid bone, connect it firmly to thofe cartilages {f). So many different ways this fmall bone may be formed without any inconvenience: But then fome of thefe pofi- tlons may be fo diredled, as to bring on a great train of ill confequences; particularly when the lower end is offified, and is too much turned outw’ards or inwards (^), or when the conjundlion of this appendix with the fecond bone is too weak {h). The fternum is joined by cartilages to the feven upper ribs unlefs when the firft coalefces with it in an intimate union of fubftance ; and its unequal cavity on each fide of its up- per end is fitted for the ends of the clavicles. The (y) Weitbrecht, Syndefmolog. p. Iir., (a) Rolfinc. Diflcrt. Anat. lib. 2. cap. 41. Paaw dc ofiib. pars j, cap. 3. & pars 3. cap. 3. Codronchi dc prolapfu cartilagin. mucronat. {b) P4aw.de oflib. pars i.eap. 3. & pars. 3. cap. 3.—Borrich. Aft. Hafn vol. 5. ob. 79.—Donet. .Sepulchrct. Anat. tom. 2. lib. 3. § j. Append, ad, •bf. 8. et ibid. § 7- obf. 19.lyo OF THE SKELETON. Parti. The fternum moft frequently has four fmall round bones, furrouiided with cartilage, in children born at the full time ; the uppermoft of thefe, which is the firft bone, be- ing the largeft. —rwo or three other very fmall' bony points are likewife to be feen in feveral children Tlie number of bones increafes for fome years, and then diminifli- es, but uncertainly, till they are at laft united into thofe a- bove defcribcd of an adult. The ufes of this bone are, to afford oi igin and infertion to feveral mufcles *, to fuftain the mediaflinum: to defend the vital organs, the heart and lungs, at the fore-part; and lallly, by ferving as a moveable fulcrum of the ribs^ to affifl confiderably in refpiration : which adion, fo far as it depends on the motion of tlie bones, we are now at liberty to explain. When the ribs that are connedled by their cartilages to the flernum, or to the cartilages of the true ribs, are ac- ted upon by the intercoflal niufdes, they mufl all be pulled from the oblique pofition which their cartilages kept them in, nearer to right angles with the vertebitc and flernum, becaufe the firft or uppermoft rib is by much the moft fix- -td.of .any ; and the cartilages making a greater refiftance to raifing the anterior ends of the ribs, their large arched middle parts turn outwards as well as upwards. -The fternum, prefled ftrongly on both fidcs by the cartilages of the ribs, is pufhed forwards, and that at its feveral parts, in proportion to the length and motion of its fupporters the ribs ; chat is, moft at its lower end— The fternum and the cartilages, thus ralfcd forwards, muft draw the diaphragm conne<5led to them : confequently fo faf ftretch it, and bring it nearer to a plane. The power that raifes this bone and the cartilages, fi:ices them fufficiently to make them refift the adion of the diaphragm, whofe fibres con- trad at il.e fame time, and thruft the vifeera of rfie abdo- men(Chap. II. ♦ BONES OF THE TRUNK. rpi men downwards. The arched part of the ribs being tlius moved outwards, their anterior ends and the dernum being advanced forwards, and the diaphragm being brought nearer to a plain furface, inftcad of being greatly convex on each fide within each cavity of the thorax, it is evident how confidcrably the cavity, of which the nine or ten up- per ribs are the fides, mud be widened, and -made deeper and longer. While this is doing in the upper r&s, the lower ones wdiofe cartilages are not joined to the fternum or to other cartilages, move very differently, though they confpire to the fame intention, the enlargement of the tho» rax: for having no fixed point to which their anterior ends are faflened, and the diaphragm being inferted into them at the place where it runs nearly flraight upwards from its origin at the vertebrae, thefe ribs are drawn downwards by this flrong mufcle, and by the mufcles of the abdomen, which at this time refifl the ftretching force of the bowels ; while the intcrcoftal mufcles are pulling them in the contrary dire£lion, to wit, upwards. The efl'e<T there- fore, of either of thefe powers, which are antagonifls to each other, is very little, as to moving the ribs eitlier up or down ; but the mufcles of the abdomen, puflied at this time outwards by the vifeera, carry thefe ribs along with them. Thus the thorax is not only not allowed to be fliortened, but is really widened at its lower part, to affifl in making fufficient fpace for the due diJlsntion of the lungs. As foon as the action of thefe feveral mufcles ceafes, the claftic cartilages, extending themfclves to their natural fi- tuation, deprefs the upper ribs, and the fternum fubfides ; the diaphragm is thruft up by the vifeera abdominalia, and the oblique and traxifverfe mufcles of the belly ferve to draw the inferior ribs inwards at the fame time. By thefe192 OF THE SKELETON. ' Part I. thefe caufes, the cavity of the breaft is dlminiflied in all its dimenfions. Though the motions above defcribed of the ribs and fternurrij efpecially of the latter bone, are fo fmall in the mild refpiration of a healthy perfon, that we can fcarce obferve them; yet they are manifeft whenever we defignedly increafe our refpiration, or are obliged to do it after exercife, and in feveral difcafes. UTHORS are muck dividad in their opinions about the number of bones of which each fuperior extremi- ty (/) fhould be faid to confift ; fome defcribing the clavi- cle and fcapula as part of it, others clafling thefe two bones with thofe of the thorax: But fince mofl quadrupeds have no clavicles, and the human thorax can perform its func- tions right when the fcapula is taken away (I), while it is impolTible for us to have the right ufe of our arms without thefe bones, I mull think that they belong to the fuperior extremities. Each of the fuperior extremities may be divided into the Ihoulder, arm, fore-arm and hand. Clavicula, or collar bone (/), is the long crooked bone, in figure like an Italic /, placed almoft horizontally between SECT. III. OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. $ I. Bones of the Shoulder. The Shoulder confiilsof the f/awV/^rand fcapula. C L AV I C U L A. ft) Kivxa, yt/**, ixputtirff, £niita, adnata, explantata membra, artus. (i) Philofoph. Tranfaft. numb. 449. § 5. ij) Osjugulaic, juguluia, furcula, ligula, clavis, humci'us q.uibufdam.Glupj II. SUPERIOR EXTRE;MITIES. 193 between tlie upper lateral part of the fternum and what is commonly called the top of the fhoulder ; which, as a clavis or beam, it beats off from the trunk of the body. The clavicle, as well as other long round bones, is larger at its two ends than in the middle. The end next to the fternunri {m) is triangular : The angle behind is confider- ably protruded, to form a fliarp ridge, to which the tranf- verfe ligament^ extended from one clavicle to the other, is fixed (w). The fide oppofite to this is fomewhat round- ed. The middle of this protuberant end is as irregularly hollowed as the cavity in the fternum for receiving it is raifed : but, in a recent fubje£l, the irregular concavities of both are fupplied by a moveable cartilage*, which is not only much more clofely connetfted every where by liga- ments to the circumference of the articulation than thofe of the lower jaw arc, but it grows to the two bones at both its internal and external end ; its fubftance at the external end being foft, but Very ftrong, and refembling the intervertebral cartilages (0). From this' internal end, the clavicle, for about two fifths of its length, is bended obliquely forwards and down- wards. On the upper and fore-part of this curvature a fmall ridge is feen, with a plain rough furface before it 5 vvhence the mufculus fterno-hyoideus and fterno-maftoi-. deus have in part their origin. Near the lower angle a fmall plain furface is often to be remarked, where the firft nb and this bone are contiguous (/>), and are connec- ted by a firm ligament (q). From this a rough plain fur- VoL. I. B b face (w) napar^ayif. (n) Riolan. Encheirid. anat. lib. 6. cap. Wiritlow, Expof. Anat, desosfrais, § 248 Weitbrecht. Aft. Petropolit. tom. 4. p. 2..j. et Syndcfmolog.feft. a. I. § 3. (0) Wfitbtccht. Syndcfmolog. feft. 2.1. § 6. {/>) Dionis, Sixienie demonft. dcs os- (?) Weitbrecht. SyndefmoJog. feft. 2. I. § 7.Part I. 194 OF THE SKEL'ETON. face is extended outwards, where the pe£loral mufcle has part of its origin. Behind, the bone is made flat and rough by the infertion of the larger fliare of the fubclavian mufcle. After the clavicle begins to be bent backwards, it is round : but it foon after becomes broad and thin ; which fliape it retains to its external end. Along the ex- ternal concavity, a rough fmuoiity runs, from which fome part of the deltoid mufcle takes its rife ; oppofite to this, on the convex, edge, a fcabrous ridge gives infertion to a fhare of the cucullaris mufcle. The upper furface of the clavicle is here flat ; but the lower is hollow, for lod- ging the beginning of the mufculus fubclavlus ; and to- wards its back-part a tubercle rifes to which, and to a roughnefs near it, the ftrong fhort thick ligament, connec- ting this bone to the coracoid procefs of the fcapula, is fixed. The external end [r) of this bone is horizontally oblong, fmooth, doping at the pofleribr fide, and tipped in a recent fubject with a cartilage, for its articulation with the acro- mion fcapulae. Round this the bone is fpongy, for the firmer conne£lion of the ligaments. The medullary arteries having their direfflon obliquely outwards, enter the clavicles by one or more fmall pafTages in the middle of their back-part. The fuhjjance of this bone is the fame as of the other round long bones. The triangular unequal Interior end of each clavicle has the cartilage above deferibed interpofed between it and the irregular cavity of the flernum. The ligaments which furround this articulation to fecure it, are fo fliort and flrong, that little motion can be allowed any way ; and the ftrong ligament that is ftretched acrofs the upper furcula of the fternum, from the pofterior prominent angle of the (r) Era^if. oneChap.II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 195 I one clavicle to the fame place of the other clavicle, ferves to keep each of thefe bones more firmly in their place. By the affiftance, however, of the moveable intervening cartilage, the clavicle can, at this joint, be railed or de- prefled, and moved backwards and forwards fo much as that the external end, which is at a great diflance from that axis, enjoys very confpicuous motions. The articulation of the exterior end of the clavicle fliall be confidersd after the def- cription of the fcapula. 4. The clavicles of infants are not deficient In any of their parts ; nor have they any epiphyfes at their extremities joined afterwards to their bodies, as mod other fuch long bones have, which preferve them from being bent too much, and from the danger of any unoflified parts being fe- parated by the force which pulls the arms forwards. The ufes of the clavicles are, to keep the fcapulse, and confequently all the fuperlor extremities, from falling in and forward upon the thorax ; by which, as in mod qua- drupeds, the motions of the arms M'ould be much con- fined, and the bread made too narrow. The clavicles like- wife afford origin to feveral mufcles, and a defence to large veffels. From the fituation, figure, and ufe of the clavicles, it is evident that they are much expofed to frailures ; and their broken parts mud generally pafs each other ^ and that they are difficultly kept in their place afterwards. SCAPULA. Scapula, or Jljoulder-blaJe (i), is the triangular bone fituated on the outfide of the ribs j with its longed fide, called its bafe, towards the fpinal procefiTes of the vertebrae ; B b 2 and fs) nfiOTTxaroi, lafivarm, Latitudo humeri, fceptiUum Tcl fcutulum oper. turn, fpatula, ala, humerus, clypeus, feutum thoracis. fOF THE SKELETON. 196 - Part I. and with the angle at the upper part of this fide about three inches, and the lower angle at a greater diilance, from thtfe procefles. The back-part of the fcapula has no- thing but the tliin ends of the ferratus anticus major and fubfcapularis mufcles between it and the ribs : But as this bone advances forwards, its diftance from the ribs incrcafes. Iheuppepor (horter fide, called xiw: fuptrior cofta^ of the fcapula, is nearly horizontal, and parallel with the feeond rib. The lower fide, whicJi is named the inferior cof.a^ is extended obliquely from the third to the eighth rib. The 'fituation of this bone, here dcf-.ribed, is when people are fitting or (landing in a date of ina(Sli\ity, and allov.’ing the members to remain in the mod natural eafy poflure. The inferior angle of the fcapula is very acute ; the upper one is near to a right angle •, and what is called the anterior does not deferve the name, for the two Tides do not meet to form an angle. The body of this bone is concave to- wards the ribsV «ind convex behind, where it has the name of dorftim (/)• Three procelTeS' are generally reckoned to proceed from the fcapula, d he firil is the large fpine that riles from its convex furface behind, and divides it une- qually. The feeond procefs Rands out from the fore part of the upper fide : and, from its imaginary refemblar.ee to a crow’s beak, is named coracoidcs (u). The third proceis Is the whole thick bulbous fore-part of tbe bone. After thus naming the fcveral conllitucnt parts of the fcapula, the particular defeription will be more eafily under- ftood. The bafe, which is tipped with cartilage in a young fub- je£l, is not all ftraight: for above the fpine it runs obli- quely forwards to the fuperior angle, that here it might jiot be too protuberant backwards, and fo bruife the muf- cles (<) Xt^UVIC/V^ («) Anchoroides, figmoides, digitalis, ancidroides.197 Chap.ll. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. the cles and teguments. Into the oblique fpace the niufculus pntitntiaj is inferted. At the root of the fpine, on the back-part of the bafe, a triangular plain furface is formed by the preflure of the lower fibres of the trapezius. Be- low this the edge of the fcapula is fcabrous and rough, for the infertion of the ferratus major anticus and rhomboid mufcles. T.ie back-part of the inferior angle is made fmooth by the latillimus dorfi pafiing over it. This mufcle alfo alters the direction of the inferior cofta fome way forwards from this angle : and fo far it is flatted behind by the origin of the teres major. As the inferior cofta advances forward, it is of confiderable thicknefs, it ft flightly hollowed and made fmooth behind by the teres minor, while it has a foiTa formed into it below by part of the fubfcapularis ; and between the two a ridge with a fniall depreffien appears, where the longus extenfor cubiti has its origin. The fuperior colta is very thin : and near its fore-part there is a femilunar niche, from one end of which to the, other a ligament is ftretched ; and fometimes the bone is continued to form one, or fometimes two, holes for the paflage of the fcapular blood-veflels and nerves. Imme- diately behind this femilunar cavity the coraco-hycid mufcle has its rife From the niche to the termination of the fofla for the teres minor, the fcapula is narrower than any where elfe, and fupports the third f)rocefs. This part has the name of cervix. The whole dorfum of the fcapula is always fald to be convex ; but, by reafon of the raifed edges that furround it, it is divided into two cavities by the fpine, which is ftretched from behind forwards, much nearer to the fup- nor than to the inferior cofta. The cavity above the fpine is really concave where the fupra-fpinatus mufcle is lodged; while the furface of this bone below the fpine, on whichPart I. OF THE SKELETON. 198 the infra-fplnatus mufcle is placed, is convex, except a fofla that runs at the fide of the inferior cofta. The internal or anterior furface of this bone is hollow, except in the part above the fpine, which is convex. The fubfcapularis mufcle is extended over this furface, where it forms feveral ridges and intermediate depreffions, commonly n-ii(laken for prints of the ribs ; they point out the interllices of the bundles of fibres of which the fubfcapularis mufcle is compofed (,v). The fpine (y) rlfes fmall at tlie bafe of the fcapula, and becomes higher and broader as it advances forwards.—— — On the fides it is unequally hollowed and crooked, by the aclions of the adjacent mufcles. Its ridge (z)is divided into two rough flat furfaces : Into the upper one, the tra- pezius, mufcle is inferted ; and the lower one has part of the deltoid fixed to it. The end of the fpine, called a~ cromlcn (a), or top of the fhoulder, is broad and flat, and is fometimes only joined to the fpine by a cartilage [b).—— The anterior edge of the acromion is flat, fmooth, and co- vered with a cartilage, for its articulation with the external end of the clavicle ; and it is hollowed below, to allow a paflTage to the infra and fupra fpinati mufcles, and free mo- tion to the os humeri. The coracoid (c) procefs is crooked, with its point incli- ning forwards; fo that a hollow is left at the lower fide of its root, for the pafl'age of the infra fcapularis mufcle. —The end of this procefs is marked with three plain furfaces. Into the internal, the ferratus minor anticus is inferted: I (x) Winflow, in Memoires de I’acad. dcs fciences, 1722. ^xccTwv, Einincntia fcapularum. (z) Ptergium, crifta. (a) ayKvpoii^nCj y.ofcc*o(ii>i(y Acrotnii OS, fummus araius, roflnim porciiium, procefTus digitalis. (^) Sue, Trad, d’oftcol. p. 160. (f) ’A^Kv^oiiStKj enyfiouitt^j RotbiformLs.Chap. II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 199 The inferted: from the external, one head of the biceps flexor cubiti rifes; and from the lower one, the coraco-brachialis has its origin. At the upper part of the root of this pro- cefs, immediately before the femilunar cavity, a fmooth tu- bercle appears, where a ligament from the clavicle is fixed. From all the external fide of this coracoid apophyfe, a broad ligament goes out, which becomes narrower where it is fixed to the acromion. The fliarp pain, violent in- flammation, and tedious cure of contufions in this part, are probably owing to thefe tendons and ligaments being hurt. From the cervix fcapulte the third procefs is produced. The fore-part of this is formed into a glenoid cavity (J), which is of the fhape of the longitudinal fedlion of an egg, being broad below and narrow above. Bet\veen the brims of this hollow and the fore-part of the root of tli^e fpine, a large finuofity is left for the tranfmilfion of the fu- pra and infra fpinati mufcles ; and on the upper part of thefe brims we may remark a fmooth furface, where the fecond head of the biceps flexor cubiti has its origin. The root of the fupercilia is rough all round, for the firmer adhe- fion of the capfular ligament of the articulation, and of the cartilage which is placed on thefe brims, w’here it is thick, but becomes very thin as it is continued towards the middle of the cavity, which it lines all over. The medullary veflels enter the fcapula near the bafe of the fpine. The fuhjlance of the fcapula, as in all other broad flat bones, is cellular, but of an unequal thicknefs : for the neck and third procefs are thick and ftrong ; the inferior cofta, and fpine, and coracoid procefs, are of a middle thick- nefs ; and the body is fo preffed by the mufebs, as to be- come thin and diaphanous. (dj n,e«3X5ruMf.200 OF THE SKELETON. Part I. 1 he fcapula anJ clavicle are joinedh'^ plain furfaces, tip- ped with cartilage {e); by which neither bone is allowed any confiderablc motion, being tightly tied down by the common capfular ligament, and by a very ftrong one which proceeds fropi the coracoid procefs ; but divides into two before it is fixed into the clavicle, with I'uch a direction, as can either allow this bone to have a fmall rotation, in which its pollerior edge turns more backwards, while the anterior one rifes farther forwards j or it can yield to the fore-part of the fcapula moving downwards, while the back-part of it Is drawn upwards ;• in both which cafes, the oblong fmooth articulated furfaces of the clavicle and fcapula are not in the fame plane, but Hand a little tranf- verfely, or acrofs each other, and thereby preferve this joint from luxations, to which it would be fubjedT: if either of the bones was to move on the other perpendicularly up and down wdthout any rotation.-—= Sometimes a move- able ligamentous cartilage is found in this joint; and fome- times fuch a cartilage is only interpofed at the anterior half of it: and in fome old fubjedfs I have found a fefa- moid bone here {f)> The fcapula is connedfed to the head,' os hyoides, vertebrae, ribs, and arm-bone, by mufcles, that have one end faftened to thefe bones, and the other to the fcapula, which can move it upwards, downwards^ back- wards, or forwards ; by the quick fuccefiion of thefe mo- tians, its whole body is carried in a circle. But being alfo often mo^'ed' as upon an axis perpendicular to its plane, its circumference turns in a circle whofe centre this axis is ig)- Whichever of thefe motions it performs, it always carries the outer end of the clavicle and the arm along with it. The glenoid cavity of this bone receives the os humeri, (;) Acromion, ItIf, Claufun. (y) Jac. Sylv. Ifagog. Anat. lib. i. cap. i. Sec Winflow, Mcmoircs de I’acad. dcs fcicnccs, I7J6.Chap.II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. lol \ humeri, which plays in it as a ball in a focket, as will be more fully explained hereafter. The ufe of the fcapula is, to ferve as a fulcrum to the arm ; and, by altering its pofition on different occafions, to allow always the head of the os humeri a right-fituated, focket to move in : and thereby to affift and to enlarge greatly the motions of the fuperior extremity, and to afford the mufcles which rife from it more advantageous a£l:ions, by altering their dire£lion to the bone which they are to move. This bone alfo ferves to defend the back part of the thorax, and is often employed to fuftain weights, or to refill forces, too great for the arm to bear. The bafe, acromion, coracoid procefs, and head of the fcapula, are all in a cartilaginous ftate at birth ; and the three firft are joined as epiphyfes ; while the head, with the glenoid cavity, is not formed into a difl;in£l feparate bone, but is gradually produced by the oflification of the body of this bone being continued forwards. , t ! § 2. The Arm. The Arm has only one bone, belt known by the Latin name of os humeri {h) j which is long, round, and nearly ftraight. The upper end of this bone (r) is formed in a large round fmooth head, whofe middle point is not in a ftraight line with the axis of the bone, but Hands obliquely back- wards from it. The extent of the head is diftinguiftied by a circular foffa furrounding its bafe, where the head is United to the bone, and the capfular ligament of the joint is fixed. Below the fore-part of its bafe, two tubercles ftand out: The fmalkft one, which is fituated moft to the Vol. I. C c infide, (i) AKpoua, uKttiti, Os brachii, •rmi, adjutorlum, parTum, brachium, «wma brachii. (i) Acroevlium,202 OF THE SKELETON. Part I. infide, has the tendon of the fubfcapularls mufcle inferted into it The larger more external protuberance is di- vided, at its upper part, into three fmooth plain furfaces ; into the anterior of which, the mufculus fupra-fpinatus ; into the middle or largeft, the infra-fpinatus ; and into the one behind, the teres minor, is inferted.—Between thefe two tubercles, exactly in the fore-part of the bone, a deep long fofla is formed, for lodging the tendinous head of the bi- ceps flexor cubiti; 'which, after paffing, in a manner pe- culiar to itfelf, through the cavity of the articulation, is tied down by a tendinous Iheath extended acrofs the folTa} in which, and in the neighbouring tubercles, are feveral remarkable holes, wliich are penetrated by the tendinous/ and ligamentous fibres, and by veflels. On each fide of this fofla, as it defeends in the os humeri, a rough ridge, gently flatted in the middle, runs from the roots of the tubercles. Tire tendon of the pe£loral mufcle is fixed into the anterior of thefe ridges, and the latiffimus dorfi and teres major are inferted into the internal one. A little behind the lower end of this laft, another rough ridge may be obfeivcd, wdiere the coraco-brachialis is inferred. From the back-part of the root of the large 11 tubercle a ridge alfo is continued, from which the brevis extenfor cu* biti rifes. This bone is flatted on the infide, about its mid- dle, by the belly of the biceps flexor cubiti. In the middle of this plain furface, the entry of the medullary artery is feen flanting obliquely downwards. At the fore* fide of this plane the bone rifes in a fort of a ridge, which is rough, and often has a great many fmall holes in it, where the tendon of the ftrong deltoid mufcle is inferted ; on each fide of which the bone is fmooth and flat, where the brachlus in- ternus rifes. The exterior of thefe two flat furfaces is the largell; behind it a fuperficial fpiral channel, formed by the mufcular nerve and the veflels that accompany It, runs fromChnp.ir. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 203 from behind forwards and downwards. The body of the os humeri is flatted behind by the extenfors of the fore-arm. Near the lower end of this bone, a large fliarp ridge is extended on its outfide, from which the niufculus fpinator radii longus, and the longed head of the extcnfor carpi radialis, rife. Oppofite to this, there is another fmall ridge to which the aponeurotic tendon, that gives origin to the fibres of the internal and external brachial muffles, is fixed ; and from a little deprclfion on the fore-fide of it, the pronator radii teres rifes. ' The body of the os humeri becomes gradually broader towards the lower end, where it has feveral procefles; at the roots of which there is a cavity before and another be- hind {k). The anterior is divided by a ridge into two ; the external, which is the lead, receives the end of the radius; and the internal receives the .coronoid procefs of the ulna in the flexions of the fore arm, while the pode<i rior deep triangular cavity lodges the olecranon in the extenfions of that limb. The bone between thefe twp cavities is prelTed fo thin by the procefles of the ulna, to appear diaphanous in feveral fubjedls. The fides of the poderior cavity are dretched out into two procefles, one on each fide : Thefe are called condyles; from each of ■Vvhich a drong ligament goes out to the bones of the fore- arm. The external condyle, which has an oblique direc- tion alfo forwards in refpe£l: of the internal, when the arm is in the mod natural podure (/), is equally broad,* and has an obtufe fmooth head rifing from it forwards. From the rough part of the condyle, the inferior heads of the bicor- nis, the extenfor digitorum communis, extenfor carpi ul- narls, anconieus, and fome part of the fpinator radii bre- vis, take their rife ; and on the fmooth head the upper end of the radius plays. Immediately on the out-fide of C c 2 this, (/) Window, Memoircs de I’acad, des fcicnccs, 1722.,^ BayfuSii;,OF THE SKELETON. PartL 204 this, a finuofity is made by the (horter head of the bi- cornis mufcle, upon which the mufcular nerve is placed. The internal condyle is more pointed and protuberant than the external, to give origin to fome part pf the flexor car- pi radialis, pronator radii teres, palmaris longus, flexor digitorum fublimis, and flexor carpi ulnaris. Between the two condyles, Is the trochlea or pulley ; which confifts of two lateral protuberances, and a middle ca- vity, that are fmooth and covered with cartilage. When the fore-arm is extended, the tendon of the internal brachiseus mufcle is lodged in the fore-part of the ca- vity of this pulley. The external protuberance, •\vhich is lefs than the other, has a fharp edge behind ; but forwards, this ridge is obtufe, and oply feparated from the little head, already defcribed, by a fmall fofla, in which the joined edges of the ulna and radius move. The internal protuberance ,6f the pulley is largeft and higheft; and therefore, in the motions of the ulna upon If, that bone ■would be inclined outwards, were it not fupported by. the radius on that fide. Between this Internal protuberance and condyle, a finuofity may be remarked, where the ulnar nerve paflTes. The fuhjlance and the Internal ftrudilure of the os hume- ri is the fame, and difpofed in the fame way, as in other long bones. The round head at the upper end of this bone is ariicu.^ latcd with the glenoid cavity of the fcapula ; which being fuperficial, and having long ligaments, allows the arm a free and extenfive motion. Thefe ligaments are, how- ever, confiderably ftrong* For befides the common cap- fular one, the tendons of the mufcles perform the office, and have been defcribed under the name of ligaments. Then the acromion and coracoid procefs, with the ftrong broad ligaments ftretched between them, fecure the articu- lationChap. II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 205 lation above, where the greatefl: and moft frequent force is applied to thruft the head of the bone out of its place. It is true, that there is not near fo flrong a defence at the lower part of the articulation ^ but, in the ordinary podures of the arm, that is, fo long as it is at an acpte angle with the trunk of the body, there cannot be any force applied at this place to occafioii a luxation, fince the joint is protefted fo well above. The motions which the arm enjoys by this articulation are to every fide ; and by the fucceflion of thefe different motions, a circle may be defcribed. Befides which, the bone performs a fmall rotation round its own axis. But though this can be performed with the round head in all pofitions •, yet as thefe vary, the effefts upon the body of the bone are very different: For if the middle of the head is the centre of rotation, as it Is 'when the arm hangs dowri by the fide, the body of the bone is only moved forwards and backwards; becaufe the axis of motion of the head is nearly at right angles with the length of the bone (m); whereas, when the arm is raifed to right angles with the trunk of the body, the centre of motion, and the axis of the bone, come to be of the fame flraight line ; and there- fore the body of the os humeri performs the fame motion with its head. Though the m.otions of the arm feem to be cxtenfive, yet the larger fhare of them depends on the motions of the fcapula. The lower end of the os humeri is articulated with the bone of the fore-arm, and carries them with it In all its motions, but ferves as a bafe on which they perform the motions peculiar to themfelves ; as fhall be defcribed afterwards. Both the ends of this bone are cartilaginous in a new- born infant; and the large head with the two tubercles, and (w) Hlppocrat. de «rticul. § i,2o6 OF THE SKELETON. Part r. and the trochlea with the two condyles, become epiphyfes before* they are united to the body of the bone. § 3. Tie Fore-Arm. The fore-arm («) confifts of two long bones, the u/tia and radius i whofe fituation, in refpedl of each other, is oblique in the iealt draining or mod natural podurc ; that is, the ulna is not diredtly behind, nor on the outfide of the radius, but in a middle fituation between thefe two, and the radius erodes it. The fituation, however, of thefe bones, and of all the other bones of the fuperior extremi- ty that are not yet deferibed, is frequently altered : and therefore, to fhun repetitions, I defire it may now be re- marked, that, in the remaining account of the fuperior ex- tremity, I underdand by the term of pojierior^ that part w’hich Is in the fame dire£lion with the back of the hand : by anterior^ that anfwering to the palm ; by internal, that on the fame fide with the thumb; by external, the fide neared to the little finger; fuppofing the hand always to be in a middle pofition between the pronation and fupina- tion. U.L N A. Ulna (e), fo named from its being ufed as a meafure. Is the longed of the two bones of the fore arm, and fituated on the outfide of the radius. At the upper end of the ulna are two procedes. The poderior is the larged, and formed like a hook, whofe concave furface moves upon the pulley of the os humeri, and is called olecration (y>), or top of the cubit. The con- vex («) Cubitus, lacertus. (ej Cubitus, riovnx‘0'>y docile majus, canna, vcl arundo majoi, et inferior brachii. (/«) Aj'UfJv, Gibber cubitus, additamentum necatumlChap. II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 207 vex back-part of it is rough and fcabrous, where the lon- gus, brevis, and brachiseus externus, are inferted. The olecranon makes it unneceflary that the tendojis of tlie ex- tenfor mufcles fliould pafs over the end of the os humeri j which would have been of ill confequence in the great flex- ions of this joint, or when any confiderable force is appli- ed to this part (5'). The anterior procefs is not fo large, nor does it reach fo high, as the one behind; but is fliarp- er at its end, and therefore is named coronaid. Between thefe two proceffes, a large femicircular or figmoid conca- vity is left; the furface of which on each fide of a middle rifing, is llanting, and cxaflly adapted to the pulley of the bone of the arm Acrofs the middle of it, there is a fmall finuofity for lodging mucilaginous glands ; where, as well as in a fmall hollow on the Internal fide of it, the car- tilage that lines the reft of its furface is wanting. Round the brims of this concavity the bone is rough, where the capfular ligament of the joint is implanted. Immediate- ly below the olecranon, on the back-part of the ulna, a flat triangular fpongy furface appears, on which we com- monly lean At the internal fide of this, there is a lar- ger hollow furface, where the mufculus ancomeus is lod- ged ; and the ridge at the infide of'this gfves rife to the mufculus fupinator radii brevis.——Between the top of the ridge and the coronoid procefs is the femilunated fmooth cavity, lined with cartilage; in which, and in a ligament ex- tended from the one to the other end of this cavity, the roundhead of the radius plays. Immediately below it, a rough hollow gives lodging to mucilaginous glands. Be- low the root of the coronoid procefs, this bone is fcabrous and unequal, where the brachiaeiis internus is inferted On the outfide of that, we obferve a fmooth concavity, where (?) W inflow, Expofltion anatomique du corps humain, traite dcs os fees, . § 973.203 OF THE SKELETON. Parti. ■where the beginning of the flexor digitorum profundus fprouts out. The body of the ulna is triangular—The internal angle, is very (harp where the ligament that conneds the two bones is fixed : The Tides which make this angle are flat and rough, by the ddion and adhefion of the many muf- cles which are fituated here. At the diftance of one-third of the length of the ulna from the top, in its fore-part, the pafTage of the rhedullary vcflels may be feen flanc- ing upwards. The external fide of this bone is fmooth, fomewhat convex, and the angles at each edge of it are blunted by the prelTure of the mufclts equally difpofed about them. As this bone defeends, it becomes gradually fmaller ; fo that its lower end terminates in a little head, Handing on a fmall neck. Towards the fore but outer part of which ' laft, an oblique ridge runs, that gives rife to the pronator radii quadratus. The head is round, fmooth, and cover- ed with a cartilage on its internal fide, to be received into the femilunar cavity of the radius; while a ftyloid procefs (r) rifes from its outfide, to which is fixed a ftrong liga- ment that is extended to the os cuneiforme and pifiform: of the wrift. ’ Between the back-part of that internal fmooth fide and this procefs, a finuofity is left for the ten- don of the extenfor carpi ulnaris. On the fore-part of the root oP^^e procefs, fuch another depreflion may be remarked for the palTage of the ulnar artery and nerve. The end- of the bone is fmooth, and covered with a carti- lage. Between It and the bones of the wrift, a doubly concave moveable cartilage is interpofed ; which is a con- tinuation of the cartilage that covers the lower end of the radius, and is conneded loofely to the root of the ftyloid pro- cefs, and to the rough cavity there ; in which mucilaginous glands are lodged. ^The (r) Tpafohin', Malleolus externus.Chap. II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. aep / The ulna is articulated abave with the lower end of the os humeri, where thefe bones have depreflions and protu- berances correfponding to each other, fo as to allow an eafy and fecure extenfion of the fore-arm to almoft a Itraight line with the aririj and flexion to a very acute an- gle ; but, by the flanting pofition of the pulley, the lower part of the fore-arm is turned outwards in the extenfion, and inw'ards in the flexion (r) } and a ver^fmall kind of rotation is likewife allowed in all pofitions, efpecially when the ligaments are mofl relaxed by the fore arm being in a middle degree of flexion. The ulna is alfo articulated with the radius dud carpus, in a manner to be related af- terwards. RADIUS. Radius {t), fo called from its Imagined rcfemblance to a fpoke of a wheel or to a weaver’s beam, is the bone placed at the infide of the fore-arm. Its upper end is formed into a circular little head, which is hollowed for an articulation with the tubercle at the fide of the pulley of the os hume- ri ; and the half of the round circumference of the head next to the ulna is fmooth, and covered with a cartilage, in order to be received into the femilunated cavity of that bone. Below the head, the radius is much fmaller; therefore this part, w'hich is made round by the adlion of the fupinator radii brevis, is named its cervix At the external root of this neck, a tuberous 'procefs rifes ; into the outer part of w'hich the biceps flexor cubiti is in- fcrted. From this a ridge runs downwards and inwards, where the fupinator radii brevis is inferted ; and a little be- low, and behind this ridge, there is a rough fcabrous furface, where the pronator radii teres is fixed. The body of the radius is not ftraight, but convex on VoL. I. D d (i) Winflow, Mcmoiies de I’acad. dcs fciences, 1722. (/) Ktfxif, n-ajiccTTn^iov, Tocile minus, canna njinvr, arundo minor.Part I. OF THE SKELETON. 210 \ its internal and pollerlor furfaces j where it is alfo made round by the equal preffure of the circumjacent mufcles, particularly of the extenfors of the thumb ; but the fur- faces next to the ulna are flatted and rough, for the ori- gin of the mufcles of the hand ; and both terminate in a common fharp fpine, to which the ftrong ligament ex- tended between the two bones of the fore-arm is fixed. A little below the beginning of the plain furface, on its fore-part, where the flexor mUfcle of the lad joint of the thumb takes its origin, the paflage of the medullary veflels is feen flanting upwards. The radius becomes broader and flatter towards the lower end, efpecially on its fore-part, where its pronator quadratus mufcle is fituated. The lower end of the radius is larger than the fuperior; though not in fiich a difproportion as the upper end of the ulna is larger than its lower end— Its back-part has a flat ftrong ridge in the middle, and foflae on each fide. In a fmall groove, immediately on the outfide of the ridge, the tendon of the extenfor tertii internodii pollicis plays. In a large one beyond this, the tendons of tlie in- dicator and of the common extenfor mufcles- of the fingers pafs. Contiguous to the ulna there is a fmall depreflion made by the extenfor minimi digit!. On the infide of the ridge there is a broad depreflion, which feems again fubdivided, where the two tendons of the bicornis, or ex- tenfor carpi radialis, aie lodged. The internal fide of this end of the radius is alfo hollowed by the extenfors of the firfl and fecond joint of the thumb; immediately above which a little rough furface Ihews where the fupinator ra- dii longus is inferted. The ridges at the fides of the grooves, in which the tendons play, have an annular liga- ment fixed to them, by which the feveral (heaths for the tendons are formed. The fore-part of this end of the ra- dius is alfo deprefled, where the flexors of the fingers and flexorChap.ir. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2it (•v) Wcitbrccht. Syndefmolog. fig. to, ii. flexor carpi radialis pafs. The external fide is formed into a fcmilunated fmooth cavity, lined with a cartilage, for receiving the 16wer end of the ulna. The loweft part. of the radius is formed into an oblong cavity ; in the middle of which is a fmal' tranfverfe rifing, gently hollow- ed, for lodging mucilaginous glands ; while the rifing it- f.lf is infinuated into the conjunftion of the two bones of the wrifi; that are received into the cavity.—The internal fide of this articulation is fenced by a remarkable proccfs («) of the radius, from which a ligament going out to the wrill, as the flyloid proccfs of the ulna with its ligana.ent, guard it on the outfide. The ends of both the bones of the fore-arm being thick- er than the middle, there is a confiderable diflance between the bodies of thcfe bones ; in the larger part of which a flrong tendinous, but thin ligament, is extended, to give a large enough furface for the origin of the numerous fibres of the mufcles fituated here, that are fo much funk ' ■» - tween the bones as to be protefted from injuries, to which they would otherwife be expofed. But this ligaonent is wanting near the upper end of the fore-arm, where the fupinator radii brevis, and flexor digltorum profundus, are immediately connefled (x). Both ends of the bones of the fore-arm are firfl; cartilages, and then epiphyfes, in children. As the head of the radius receives the tubercle of the os humeri, it is not only bended and extended along with the ulna, but may bp moved round its axis in any pofition ; and, that this motion round its axis may be fufliclently large, the ligament of the articulation is extended, further down than ordinary, on the neck of this bone, before it is connefled to it; and it is very thin at its upper and lower D d 2 part, (u) Malleolus internus, proceflus (lyloidcs.Part OF "TIIE SKELETON. 212 part, but makes a firm ring in the middle. This bone is alfo joined to the ulna by a double articulation : for above, a tubercle of the radius plays in a focket of the ulna ; whilft below, the radius gives the focket, and the ulna the tubercle. But then the motion performed in thefe two is very different: for, at the upper end, the radius does no more than turn round its axis ; while, at the lower end, it moves in a fort of cycloid upon the round part of the ul- na ; and as the hand is articulated and firmly conneAed here with the radius, they mull move together When the palm is turned uppermofl, the radius is faid to perform the fupinaiion : when the back of the hand is above, it is faid to be prone. But then the quicknefs and large extent of thefe two motions are affifted by the ulna, which, as was before obferved, can move with a kind of fmall rota- tion on the fioping fides of the pulley. This lateral mo- tion, though very inconfiderable in the joint itfelf, is con- fpjcuous at the lower end of fuch a long bone ; and the ftrong ligament conne£ling this lower end to the carpus, makes the hand more readily obey thefe motions. When we defign a large circular turn of our hand, we increafe it by the rotation of the os humeri, and fometimes employ the fpine and inferior extremities to make thefe motions of pro- nation or fupination of the hand large enough. \ § 4. ^he Hand. The hand (y) comprehends all from the joint of the vvrill to the points of the fingers. Its back-part is convex, for greater firmnefs and ftrength ; and it is concave before, for containing more furely and conveniently fuch bodies as we take hold of. One half of the hand has an obfcure ntot'^on ' I 0) , Summa mapus. ^ ‘ .Chap. II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 213 motion in comparifon of what the other has, ami fcrves as a bafe to the moveable half; which can be extended back very little farther than to a flraight line with the fore-arm, but can be confid^srably bent forwards. As the bone^ that compofe the hand are of different fhapes and ufes, while feveral of them that are contiguous agree in fome general charafters ; the hand is, on this account, com- monly divided into carpus, metacarpus, and fingers; among which laft the thumb is reckoned, CARPUS. The carpus (2) is compofed of eiglit fmall fpongy bones, fituated at the upper part of the hand. I fhall defcribe each of thefe bones, under a proper name taken from their figure (a); becaufe the method of ranging them by num- bers leaves anatomifts too much at liberty to debate very idly, which ought to be preferred to the firfl number; or, W'hat is worfe, feveral, without explaining th&-order they obferve, apply the fame numbers differently, and fo con- found their readers. But, that the defeription of thefe bones may be in the fame order as they are found in the generality of anatomical books, I fhall begin with the range of bones that are concerned in the moveable joint of the wrift, or are connefted to the fore-arm, and fhall afterwards confider the four that fupport the, thumb and offa metacarpi of the fingers. The eight bones of the carpds are, Os fcaphoides, lunare, cuneiforme, pififorme, trapezium, trapezoides, magnum, un- ciforme. ~ The fcaphoides is fituated mofl internally of thofe that are articulated with the fSre-arm.—- The Jimare imme- diately {z) Krf/f. Bratlilale, piima palms pars, rafetta. (a) Lyfcr, Cult. Anat. lib. 5. cap. %.OF THE SKELETON. 214 Part I. diately on the outfide of the former. The cuveiforme is placed hill more externally, but does not reach fo high up as the other two. Th^pijifarwe hands forwards in the palm from the cuneiforme. T.he trapezium is the firh of the fecond row, and is fituated between the fcaphoides and hrh joint of the thumb. The trapezoides is immediately on the outfide of the trapezium.The os vw^Tium is hill more external. The unciforme is farther to the fide of the little finger. Os fcaphoides [b) is the largefi: of the eiglit, excepting one. It is convex above, concave and oblong below: from which fmall refemblance to a boat, it has got its name. Its fmooth convex furface is divided by a rough middle fcha, which runs obliquely crofs it. The upper largeh divifion is articulated with the radius. The common ligament of the joint of the wrih is fixed into the fofla ; and the lower divifion is joined to the trapezium and trapezoides. The concavity receives more than an half of the round head of the os magnum. The external fide of this hollow is formed into a femllunar plane, to be articulated with the following bone. The internal, poflerior, and anterior edges are rough, for fixing the ligaments that connect it to the fur- rounding bones. Os lutiare (c) has a fmooth convex upper furface, by which it is articulated with the radius. The internal fide, which gives jiame to the bone, is in the form of a cref- cent, and is joined with the feaphoid j the lower furface is hollow, for receiving part of the head of the os mag- num. On the outfide of this cavity is another fmooth, but narrow, oblong finuofity, for receiving the upper end of the os unciforme: on the outfide of which a fmall con- vexity is found, for its connection with the os cuneiforme. Between the great convexity above, and the firft deep in- 2 , ferior I fl>) KoTv^.oti^f{, Kflvlcularc, (f) Lunatutn.Chap.II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 21- ferior cavity, there is a rough fofla, in which the circular liga> merit of the joint of the wrifl; is fixed. Os cuneifonne [d) is broader above, and towards the back of the hand, than it is below and forwards ; which gives it the refemblance of a wedge. The fuperlor flightly con- vex furface is included in the joint of the wrift, being op- pofed to tlie lower end of the ulna Below this the cunei- form bone has a rough fofla, wherein the ligament of the articulation of the wrift is fixed. On the internal fide of this bone, where it is contiguous to the os lunare, it is fmooth and flightly concave. Its lower furface, where it is contiguous to the os unciforme, is oblong, fomewhat fpi- ral, and concave. Near the middle of its anterior furface a circular plane appears, where the os pififorme is fuftain- ed. Os pl/lforms {e) is almoft fpherical, except one circular plane, or flightly hollow furface, which is covered with cartilage for its motion on the cuneiform bone, from which its whole rough body is prominent forw^ards into the palm ; having the rendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and a liga’ inent from the ftyloid procefs of the ulna, fixed to its up- per part; the tranfverfe ligament of the wrift is conneded to Its internal fide, ligaments extended to the unciform bone, and to the os metacarpi of the little finger, are at- tached to its lower part; the abdudor minimi digiti has Its origin from its fore-part; and, at the internal fide of it, a fmall depreflion is formed, for the palTage of the ulnar nerve.' Trapezium (/) has four unequal fides and angles in its back.part, from which it has got its name Above its furface is fmooth, flightly hollowed, and femicircular,' for its con)undion with the os fcaphoides.- Its external fide (JJ Triquetrum. {cj Cartilaginofum, fubrotundum, reftum, {/) Os cubiforme, trapezoides, muitangulum, majus.OF THE SKELETON. 2i6 Part t. fs an oblong concave fquare, for receiving the following bone. The inferior furface is formed into a pulley; the two protuberant fides of which are external and internal. On this pulley the firft bone of the thumb is moved. At the external fide of the external protuberance*, a fmall oblong fmooth furface is formed by the os metacarpi indi- cts. The fore-part of the trapezium is prominent in the palmj and near to the external fide has a finuofity in ir^ where the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is lodged ; on the ligamentous (heath of which the tendon of the flexor tertii internodii pollicis plays: And (till more externally the bone is fcabrous, where the tranfverfe ligament of the wrifl; is connetled, the abduclor and flexor primi internodii pollicis have their origin, and ligaments go out to the firft tione of the thumb. Os trapezoides {g), fo called from the irregular quadran- gular figure of its back part, is the fmalleft bone of the wrifl; except the pififorme. The figure of it is an irregu- lar cube. It has a fmall hollow furface above, by which ' it joins the fcaphoides; a long convex one internally, where it is contiguous to the trapezium ; a fmall external one, for its conjun£tion wdth the os magnum; and an in*^ ferior convex furface, the edges of which are, however, fo raifed before and behind, that a fort of pulley is formed, w'here it fuftains the os metacarpi indicis. Os magnum {.h), fo called becaufe it is the largeft bone of the carpus, is oblong, having four quadrangular fides, with a round upper end, and a triangular plain one below. The round head is divided by a fmall rifing, oppofite to the conne<flion of the os fcaphoides and lunare, which to- gether form the cavity for receiving it. On the infide a fhort'plain furface joins the os magnum to the trapezoides.’ On the outfidc is a long narrow concave furface, where it b {g) Trapezium, multangnlum minus. {h) Maximum, capitatum.Chap. ir. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 217 is contiguous to the os.unciforme. The lower end, which fuftains the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, is trian- gular, nightly hollowed, and farther advanced on the in- ternal fide than on the external, having a confiderable oblong deprefiion made on the advanced infide by the me- tacarpal bone of the fore-finger; and generally there is a fmall mark of the os metacarpi digiti annularis on its ex- ternal fide. Os unaforme (i) has got its name from a thin broad pro- cefs that Hands out from it forwards into the, palm, and is hollow on its infide, for affording paffage to the tendons of the flexors of the fingers. To this procefs alfo the tranfverfc ligament is fixed that binds down and defends thefe tendons •, and the flexor and abduclor mufcles of the little finger have part of their origin from it. The upper plain furface is fmall, convex, and joined with the os lu- nare : The internal fide is long, and flightly convex, adapt- ed to the contiguous os magnum. The external furface is oblique, and irregularly convex, to be articulated with the cuneiform bone. The lower end is divided into cwo concave furfaces ; the external is joined with the metacar- pal bone of the little finger; and the internal one is fitted to the metacarpal bone of the ring-finger. In the defcriptlon of the preceding eight bones, I have only mentioned thofe plain furfaces covered with cartilage, by which they are articulated to each other, or to fome other bones, except in fome few cafes, where fomething extraordinary was to be obferved ; and I have defignedly omitted the other rough furfaces, left, by crowding too many words in the defeription of fuch fmall bones, the whole fliould be unintelligible. But thefe fcabrous parts of the bones may eafily be underftood'after mentioning their figure, if it is obferved, that they are generally found on- VoL. I. E e ]y («) Cuneiformc.Part I. "OF THE SKELETON. 2l8 ly towards the back or palm of the hand; that they arc all plain, larger behind than before ; and that they receive the different ligaments, by which they arc either conneded to neighbouring bones or to one another ; for thefe ligaments cover all the bones, and are fo accurately applied to them, that at firft view the whole carpus of a recent fubjed, appears ©ne fmooth bone [k). , As the furfaces of thefe bones arc larged behind, the? figure of the whole conjoined muft be convex there, and concave before; which concavity is dill more increafed by the os pififorme, and procefs of the os unciforme, dand- ^ ing forwards on one fide, as the trapezium does on the other : And the bones are fccurely kept in this form by the broad drong tranfverfe ligament conneded to thofc parts of them that dand prominent into the palm of the hand. The convexity behind renders the whole fabric dronger, where it is mod expofed to injuries , and the large anterior hollow is necedary for a fafe paflage to the numerous veffels, nerves, and tendons of the fingers. The ftihjlance of thefe bones is fpongy and cellular, but drong in refped of their bulk. The three fird bones of the carpus make an oblong head, by which they are articulated with the cavity at the lower ends of the bones of the fore-arm, fo as to allow motion on all fides \ and by a quick fucceflion of thefe mo tions, they may be moved in a circle. But as the joint is oblong, and therefore the two dimenfions are unequal, no motion is allowed to the carpus round its axis, except what it has in the pronation and fupination along with the radius. -The articulation of the fird three bones of the fuperior row, w'ith the bones of the inferior, is fuch as allows of motion, efpecially backwards and forwards ^ to (k) Galen. De iifa part. lib. a. cap. 8. For a- particular deferiptioD of ligaments, fee Wcitbrecht. Syndefmolog. p. ——68.Chap. ir. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 219 to the fecurity and eafinefs of which, the reception of the os magnum into the cavity formed by the fcapholdes and lunare confiderably contributes: And the greateft number of the mufcles that ferve for the motion of the wrlft on the radius, being inferted beyond the conjun£Hon of the firfl; row of bones with the fecond, a£f equally on this ar- ticulation as they do on fiie former ; but the joint formed* with the radius being the moll eafily moved, the firft elFefl of thefe mufcles is on it; and the fecond row of the car- pus is only moved afterwards. By this means a larger mo- tion of the wrifl is allowed than otherwife it could have had fafely: for if as large motion had been given to one joint, the angle of flexion would have been very acute, and the ligaments mufl have been longer than was con- fiftent with the lirmnefs and fecurity of the joint. The other articulations of the bones here being by nearly plain furfaces, fcarcely allow of any more motion, becaufe of the ftrong connedting ligaments, than to yield a little, and fp elude the force of any external power ; and to render the back of the wrifl a little more flat, or the palm more hol- low, on proper occaflons. The articulations of the thumb and metacarpal bones fhall be e.xamined afterwards. The ufes of’the carpus are to ferve as a bafe to the luind, to protedl its tendons, and to afford it a free large motion. All the bones of Uie carpus are in a cartilaginous date at the time of birth. On account of the many tendons that pafs upon the lower end of the fore-arm and the carpus, and of the numerous ligaments of thefe tendons and of the bones, which have lubricating liquors fupplied to them, the pain of fprains here is acute, the parts take a long time to recover their tone, and their fwellings are very obflinate.Part I, OF THE SKELETON. 220 metacarpus. FIetacarpus {1) confifts of four bones which fuflain the fingers. Each bone is long and round, with its ends larger than its body. The upper end, which fome call the bafe, ' is flat and oblong, without any confiderablc head or cavity ; but it is however fomewhat hollowed, for the articulation with the carpus: It is made flat and fmooth on the fides where thefe bones are contiguous to each other. Their bodies are flatted on their back-part by the tendons of the extenfors of the fingers. The anterior furface of thefe bodies is a little concave, efpeciidly in their middle \ along which a fliarp ridge Hands out, feparating the mufculi interolTei placed on each fide of thefe bones, which are there made ‘flat and plain by thefe mufcles. Their lower ends are raifed into large oblong fmooth heads, whofe greatefl extent is forwards from the axis of the bone. At the fore-part of each fide of the root of each of thefe heads, one or two tubercles Hand out, ‘ for fixing the ligaments that go from one metacarpal bone to ano- ther, to preferve them from being drawn afunder : Rouhd the heads a rough ring may be remarked, for the capfular ligaments of the firH joints of the fingers to be fixed to; and both fides of thefe heads are flat, by prefling on each o- ther. The fuhjlance of the metacarpal bones is the fame with that of all long bones. At the time of birth, thefe bones are cartilaginous at both ends, which afterwards become epiphyfes. The* metacarpal bones are jained above to the ofla carpi and to each other by nearly plain furfaces. Thefe connec- tions (1) Kriif, BTii&off KfSnfOYf xTtvioi'i Poflbrachiale, pedtus, pal- I ijia, peften.22f Chap.'ll. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES, tions are not fit for large motions. The articulation of their round heads at the lower ends widi the cavities of the firfl: bones of the fingers, is to be taken notice of here- after. The concavity on the fore-part of thefe metacarpal bones, and the placing their bales on the arched carpus, caufe them to form a hollow in the palm of the hand, which is often ufeful to us. The fpaces between them lodge mufcles, and their fmall motion makes them fit fupport- ers for the fingers to play on. Though the ofla metacarpi fo far agree, yet they may be diftlnguiOied from each other by the following marks. The os mctacarpi iiidkis is generally the longed. Its bafe, which is articulated with the os trapezoldes, is hol- low in the middle. The fmall ridge on the internal fide of this oblong cavity is fmaller than the one oppofite to it, and is made flat on the fide by the trapezium. The exte- rior ridge is alfo fmooth, and flat on its outfide, for its conjmillion with the os magnum; immediately below which a femicircular fmooth flat furface fhews the articulation of this to the fecond metacarpal bone. The back-part of this bafe is flatted where the long head of the extenfor carpi radialis is inferred, and its fore part is prominent where the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is fixed. The external fide of the body of this bone is more hollowed by the a£lion of mufcles than the internal. The tubercle at the internal root of its head is^ larger than the external. Its bafe is fo firmly fixed to the bone it is conneifled with, that it has no motion. ' Os metacarpi medii digiti is generally the fecond in length but often it is as long as the former ; fu^iietimes it is long- er i and it frequently appears only to equal the firfl: by the os magnum being farther advanced downwards than any other bone of the wrifl;. Its bafe is a broad fuperficial ca- , - vity,222 OF THE SKELETON. Part L vitjr, flanting outwards: the internal pofterior angle of which is fo prominent, as to have the appearance of a pro- ' cefs. The internal fids of this bafe is made plain in the fame way as the external fide of the former bone, while its external fide has two hollow circular furfaces, for joining the third metacarpal bone; and between thefe furfaces there is a rough foffa, for the adhelion of a ligament, and lodging mucilaginous glands. The fliortcr head of the bi- cornis is inferted into the back-part of this bafe. The two Cdes of this bone are. almofl; equally flatted; only the ridge on the fore-part of the body inclines outwards. The tuber- cles at the fore-part of the root of the head are equal. The motion of this bone is very little more that than of the for- mer ; and therefore thefe two firmly refill bodies prefTed a- gainfl; them by the thumb or fingers, or both. metaca/pi digiil atwularts is fhorter than the fecond metacarpal bone. Its bafe is femicircular and convex, for its> conjumftion with the os unciforme. On its internal fide are two fmopth convexities, and a 'middle folia, adapted to •he fecond metacarpal bone. The external fide has a tri- angular fmooth concave furface to join it w’ith the fourth •f>ne. The anterior ridge of its body is fituated more to the cut than to the infide The tubercles near the head are e^. qual The motion of this third metacarpal bone is greater than the motion of the fecond. Os i\utacarpi wtnimi digiti is the fmalleft and fharpefV, Its bafe is irregularly convex, and rifes flanting outwards, —Its internal fide is exadlly adapted to the third metacar- pal bone, —The external has no fmooth furface, becaufe it is not contiguous to any other bone; but it is prorriinent where the extenfor carpi ulnaris is inferted. As this me- tacarpal bone is furnifhed witlr a proper moving muftle, has the plained articulation, is mod loofely connefted and lead confined, it not only enjoys a much larger motion th?^ 2 , anyChap.II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 223 any of the reft, but draws the third bone with it, when the palm of the hand is to be made hollow by its advancement forwards, and by the prominence of the thumb oppofite to it. THUMB AND FINGERS. The thumb and four fingers are each compofed of three long bones. / The Thumb (w) is fituated obliquely in refpetl: of the fingers, neither oppofite diredlly to them, nor in the fame plane with them. AH its bones are much thicker and ftronger in proportion to their length, than the bones of-the fingers are: Which are extremely neceflary, fince the thumb , countera£Is all the fingers. The firft bone of the thumb has its bafe adapted to the double pulley of the trapezium : For, in veiwing it from one fide to the other, it appears convex in the middle ; but when confidered from behind forwards, it is- concave there. The edge at the fore-part of this bafe is produced far- ther than any other part; and round the back-part of the bafe a rough fofla may be feen, for the connedlion of the ligaments of this joint. The body and head of this bone are of the fame ftiape as the olTa metacarpi; only that the body is fliorter, the head flatter, and the tubercles at the fore-part of its root larger. The articulation of the upper end of this bone is uncom- mon : For, though it has protuberances and depreffions adapted to the double pulley of the trapezium ; yet it en- joys a circular motion, as the jplnts do where a round head of the one plays in the orbicular focket of another; only (w) AyT>x*'h Magnus digitus, promanus.22i( OF THE SKELETOt^. Part I. only it Is fomewhat more confined, and lefs expeditious, but ftronger and more fecure than fuch joints generally are. This bone in children in the fame ftate with the meta- carpal bones. The fecond bone of the thumb has a large bafe formed into an oblong cavity, whofe greateft length is from one fide to the other. Round it feveral tubercles may be re- marked, for the infertion of ligaments. Its body is con- vex, or a half-round behind •, but fliit before, for lodging the tendon of the long flexor of the thumb, which is tied down by ligamentous flieaths that are fixed on each fide to the angle at the edge of this flat furiace. The lower end of this 'fecond bone has two lateral^ round protuberances, and a middle cavity, whofe greateft extent of fmooth furface is forwards. The articulation and motion of the upper end of this fe- cond bone is as Angular as that of the former.-:—For its ca- vity being joined to the round head of the firft bone, it would feem to enjoy motion in all directions; yet, becaufe of the ftrength of its lateral ligaments, oblong figure of the joint itfelf, and mobility of the firft joint, it only allows flexion and extenfion ; and thefe are generally much confin- ed. The third bone of the thumb is the fmalleft, with a large bafe, whofe greateft extent is from one fide to the other. This bafe is formed into two cavities and a middle pro- tuberance, to be adapted to the pulley of the former bone. Its body is rounded behind *, but is flatter than in the former bone for fuftaining the nail..—It is flat and rough before, by the infertion of the, flexor tertii internodii. This bone becomes gradually fmaller, till near the lower end, where it is a little enlarged, and has an oval fcabrous edge. TheChap. II. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 225 The motion of this third bone is confined to flexion and extenfion. The orderly dlfpofitlon of the bones of the fingers in- to three rows, has made them generally obtain the name of three phalanges (n). All of them have half-round convex furfaces, covered with an aponeurofis, formed by tlie tendons of the extenfors, lumbricales, and interofTei, and placed directly backwards, for their greater flrength j and their flat concave part is forwards, for taking hold more furely, and for lodging the tendons of the flexor mufcles.—— The ligaments for keeping down thefe'tendons are fixed to the angles that are between the convex and concave fides. The bones of the firfl; phalanx (0) of the fingers anfwer to the defeription of the fecond bone of the thumb; only that the cavity in their bafe is not fo oblong ; nor is their motion on the metacarpal bone/ fo much confined : For they can be moved laterally or circularly ; but have no rota- tion, or a very fmall degree of it, round their axis. Both the ends of this firll phalanx are in a cartilaginous ■ftate at the birth ; and the upper one is afterwards afiixed in form of an epiphyfe. The fecond bone (/») of the fingers has its bafe formed into two lateral caviti<?s, and a middle protuberance ; while the lower end has two lateral protuberances and a middle cavity ; therefore it is joined at both ends in the fame mannetj which none of the bones of the thumb are. This bone is in the fame condition with the former in children. ' •» The third bone (<7) differs nothing from the defeription of the third bone of the thumb, excepting in the general VoL. I. F f dif- («) Scytalldi, intcrnodla, fcuticula, agmuia, acies, coiidyli artkuli. njlUXClJuXOI. I'd) K>yiTW.»(, (y) MsTPdfPVituXM,Part I OF THE SKELETON. 22(5 diftinguifliing marks ; and therefore the fecond and third phalanx of the fingers enjoy only flexion and extenfion. The upper end of this third phalanx is a cartilage in a ripe child ; and is only an epiphyfe after, till the full growth of the body. All the difference of the phalanges of the feyeral fingers confills iri their magnitude. The bones of the middle finger (r) being the longed and larged,—thofe of the fore- finger (j) come next to that in thicknefs, but not in length, for thofe of the ring-finger (/) are a little longer. The little finger («) has the fmalled bones. Which difpofitlon is the bed contrivance for holding the larged bodies ; becaufe the longed fingers are applied to the middle larged periphery of fuch fubdances as are of a fpherical figure (,v). The ufes of all the parts of our fuperior extremities are fo evident in the common a<SUons of life, that it is need- lefs to enumerate them here ; and therefore I (hall proceed to the lad part of the fkeleton. Only, led I fhould feem to have forgot the fmall bones at the joints of the hand, I defire now to refer to the defcription of them, under the common title of Jefamoid bonesy which I have placed after the bones of the feet. S E C T. IV. ' OF THE INFERIOR EXl’REMITIES. The Ini-erior Extremities depend from the ace- tabula of the offa innominata; and are commonly divided into three parts, viz. the thigh, leg, and foot. § It The (f) K«Ta5ruys)V, a-fecxt\o(, Infamis, impudicos, verpus, famofus, obfeoenus, (,) ArxT/icffr, Indicator, demonrfrativus, falutaris. t (f) 'txTpixoey Tfotpa/itripf Annylaris, medicus, cyr* dis digitus. (u) Muok)/, oTiMc, Auricularis, minimus. (*■) Galen, d(^u^■u pwt, lib. i. cap. 24.tchap. ir. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 227 § I. ^he Thigh. The thigh (^) has only one bone; which is the longefi; In the whole body, and the largeft and (Irongefl; of any of the cylindrical bones. The fituation of it is not perpendicular; for the lower end Is Inclined confiderably inwards ; fo that thti knees are almofl: contiguous, while tliere is a confiderable dillance between the thigh-bones above; which is of great ufe, fince fuflicient fpace is thereby left for the external parts of generation, the two great clOacie of urine and faeces, and for the large thick mufcles that move the thigh inwards. At the fame time this fituati*^ of the thigh bones renders our progreffion quicker, furer, ftraighter, and In lefs room ; for, had the knees been at a greater diftance from each other, we mull have been obliged to deferibe fome part of a circle with the trunk of our body in ma- king a long Ilep ; and when one leg was raifed from the ground, our centre of gravity would have been too far from the bafe of the other, and we Ihould confequently have been in danger of falling ; fo that our fteps would neither have been ftraight nor firm, nor would it have been poflible to walk in a narrow path, had our thigh-bones been otherwife placed. In confequence, however, of the weight of the body bearing fo obliquely on the joint of the knee by this fituation of the thigh-bones, weak ricketty children become inn-knee’d. The upper end of the thigh-bone is not continued In a ftraight line with the body of it, but is fet off obliquely in- wards and upwards, whereby the diftance here between thefe two bones at their upper part is confiderably increa- fed. This end is formed into a large fmooth round head (z), which is the greater portion of a fphere unequal- ly divided Towards its lower internal part a round F f 2 rough (ji) Ml),Of, Femen, coxa, agis, anchse o$, cru5, femur. (a) Vertebnim,22S - OF THE SKELETON. Parti. I rough fpongy pit is obfervable, where the ftrong ligament, commonly, but unjuftly, called the roiwd oiiCy is fixed, to be extended from thence to the lower internal part of the receiving cavity, where it is confiderably broader than near to the head of the thigh-bone The fmall part be low the head, called the cefvix, of the os femoris, has a great many large holes, into which the fibres of the ftrong liga- ment, continued from the capfular, enter, and are there- by firmly united to it j and round the root of the neck, where it rifes from the bones, a rough ridge is found, wh .re the capfular ligament of the articulation itfelf is con- nedled. Below the back-part of this root, ' the large un- equal protuberance, called trochatiier major {a), ftands out; the external convex part of which is diftinguilhed into three different furfaces : whereof the one on the fore-part is fca- brous and rough, for the infertion of the glulscus mini- mus 5 the fuperior one' is fmooth, and has the glutseus me- dius inferted into it; and the one behind is made flat and fmooth, by the tendon of the glutasus maximus^paffing over it. The upper edge of this procefs is fliarp and pointed at its back-part, where the glutaeus medius is fixed ; but for- wards it is more obtufe, and has two fuperficial pits form- ed in it : Into the fuperior of thefe the pyriformis is im- planted ; and the obturator internus and gemini are fixed into the lower one. From the hindrnoft prominent part of this great trochanter, a rough ridge runs backwards and downwards, into which the quadratus is inferted. In the deep hollow, at the internal upper fide of this ridge, the obturator externus is implanted. More internally, a co- noid procefs, called trochanter minor (b), rifes for the in- fertion of the mufculus pfoas and iliacus internus ; and the pedlineus is implanted into a rough hollow below its inter- nal • (a) rxurof, Rotator natls, malum granatum tcRiculol-um. (A) Rotator minor. ■ ,Chap. II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 229 nal root. The mufcles inferted into thofe two procefTes being the principal inftvuments of the rotatory motion of the thigh, have occafioned the name of trochaniers to be given to thofe procefles. Flie tendons that are fixed into or pafs over the great trschantelTy caufe bruifes, by falls on this part, to be attended with great pain and weaknefs of the limb, which generally remain long. The body of the os femoris is convex on the fore part, and made hollow b'fchind, by, the action of the mufcles that move it and the leg, and for the conveniency of fitting, without bearing too much on thefe mufcles *, and probably the weight of the legs depending from the thighs in that pofture contributes to this curvature. The fore-part of the thigh-bone is a little flatted above by the beginning of the crurceus mufcle, as it is alfo below by the fame mufclc and the rectus.; Its external furface is likewife made flat below by the vaftus externus, where it is feparated from tlie former by an obtufe ridge. The vaftus internus de- prefles a little the lower part of the Internal furface The pofterior concave furface has a ridge rifing in its middle, commonly called litiea afpera^ into M’hich the triceps Is in- ferted, and the ftiort head of the biceps flexor tibiae rifes from it. At the upper part of it the medullary veflels en- ter by a fmall hole that runs obliquely upwards. little above which there is a rough fofla or two, where the ten- don of the glutrcus maximus is fixed The lower end of the linea afpera divides into two, w'hich defeend towards each fide The two vafti mufcles have part o’f their ori- gin from thefe ridges ; and the long tendon of the triceps is fixed to the internal, by a part of the fafeia aponeuro- tica of the thigh. Near the beginning of the internal ridge, there is a difeontinuation of the ridge, where the crural artery pafles through the aponturofis.' Between hefe two rough' lines, the bone is made flat by the large blood- \233 Pan I. OF THE SKELETON. blood-veiTels and nerves which pafs upon it; and near tho end of each of thefe ridges, a fiuall fmooth protuberance may often be rerr.arked, w^hcre the two heads of the exter- nal gahrocnemius mufcle take their rife, and where fefamoid bones are fometimes found (c); and from the fore-part of the internal tubercle a flrong ligament is extended to the in- fide of the tibia. The lower end of the os femoris is larger than any other part of It, and is formed into a great protuberance on^ each Cdes, called its condyles; between which a confiderable ca- vity is found, efpecially at the back-part, In vduch the cru- ral vcffels and nerves lie immeiTed in fat. The internal condyle is longer than the external, which mull happen from the oblique poGtion of this bone, to give lefs obli- quity to the leg. Each of thefe procefies feem to be divi- ded Into its plain fmooth furface. The mark of diviGon on the external is a notch, and on the internal a fmall protuberance. The fore-part of this divIGon, on which the rotula moves, is formed like a pulley, the external Gde of which is higheft. Behind, there are tavo oblong large Leads, w'hofe greatefl extent is backvrards, for the motion of the tibia: and from the rough cavity between them, but near to the bafe of the internal condyle, the ftrong liga- ment, commonly called the crofs one, has its rife. A little above which a protuberance gives infertion to the tendon of the triceps. The condyles, both on the outer and inner fide of the knee, are made ilat by the mufcles palTing along them. On the back-part of the internal, a Gight depref- fion is made by the tendons of the gracilis and fartorius; and on the external fuch another is for.med by the biceps flexor cruris ; behind which a deep fofia is to be obferved, where the poplitxus mufcle has its origin. From the tu- bercle immediately before this cavity, a ftrong ligament goes V (c) Vcfal. lib. I. cap. jS. & 3c.Chap. II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 231 goes out to the upper part of the fibula.—Round this lower end of the thigh-bone, large holes are found, into which the ligaments for the fecurity of the joint are fixed, and blood- vellels pafs to the internal fubftance of the bone. All the procelTcs of the femur are cartilaginous in new-born children; and afterwards become fmall apophyfes, with large cpiphyfes. The thigh-bone being articulated above 'with the aceta- bulum of the oflii innominata, which affords its round head a fecure and extenfive play, can be moved to every fide ; but is reftrained in its motion outwards by the high brims of'the cavity, and by the round ligament; for other- wife the head of the bone would have been fretjuently thruff out at the breach of the brims on the infide, which allows the thigh to move confiderably inwards. The body of this bone enjoys little or no rotatory motion, though the head mofl commonly moves round its own axis; becaufe 'the oblique progrefs of the neck and head from the bone is fuch, that the rotatory motion of the head can only bring the body of the bone forwards and backwards. Nor is the head, as in the arm, ever capable of being brought to a flraight dire£Uon with its body ; fo far liowever, as the head can move within the cavity back- wards and forwards, the reft of the bone may have a partial rotation. When the thigh-bone refills the adlions of its mufcles more than the trunk of the body can then do, as in {landing, thefe mufcles have their effecl on the trunk, caufing it to bend forward, raifing it up, inclining it to the one or the other fide, twilling it obliquely, &c. for which the rolling of the acetabula of the offa innominata on the round heads of the thigh-bones is well fitted.- The os femoris is articulated below to the tibia and rotula in the manner afterwards to be defcrlbed. The nearnefs of th? fmall negk to the round head of the23^ OF THE SKELETON. Parti. the thigh bone, and its upper end being covered with very thick mufcles, make greater difhcully in diftinguifiiing be- tween a luxation and fradure here, than in any other part of the body. § 2. T/:e Leg. The leg (d) is compofed, according to the common ac- count, of two bones, tibia and jihula^ though it feems to have a very good title to a third, the rotula; which bears a flrong analogy to the olecranon of the ulna, and moves, always with the other two, TIBIA. Tibia {e\ fo called from its refemblance to an old mufi- cal pipe or flute,' is the long thick triangular bone, fituated at the internal part of the leg, and continued*in alinoft a, ' ftraight Hne from the thigh bone. The upper end of the tibia is large, bulbous, and fpon- gy, and is divided into two cavities by a rough irregular protuberance (f), v.^hich is hollow at its mofl prominent part, as w'ell as before and behind. The anterior of the two ligaments that compofe the great crofs one is inferted into the middle cavity, and the dtpreflion behind receives the poflerlor ligament.- The two broad cavities at the fides of this protuberance are npt equal: for the internal is oblong and deep, to receive the internal condyle of the thigh-bone 5 while the external is more fuperficial and rounder, for the external condyle.- In each of thefc two cavities of a recent fubjeft, a femilunar cartilage is placed, {jf) Crus, tibia. (f) n-.oicv»/<jjv, uvTixirx/tiiov, Focilc majus, arundo major, canna major, canna domcuica cruris. Aixfva-ii, Tuber, tubcrculum.Chap.II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 233 placed, which is thick at its convex edge, and becomes gradually thinrfer towards the concave or interior edge. The middle of each of thefe cartilages is broad, and the ends of them turn narrower and thinner as they approach the middle protuberance of the tibia. The thick convex edge of each cartilage is conne£ted to the capfular and other ligaments of the articulation : but fo near to their rife from the tibia, that the cartilages are not allowed to change place far ; while the narrow ends of the cartilages becoming almofl; ligaments, are fixed at the infertion of the ftrong crdfs ligament into the tibia, and feem to have their fubftance united with it •, therefore a circular hole is left between each cartilage and the ligament, in which the mod prominent convex part of each condyle of the thigh-bone moves. The circumference of thefe cavities is rough and unequal, for the firm* connexion of the liga- ments of the joint. Immediately below the edge at its back-part, two rough flatted protuberances ftand out; in- to the internal, the tendon of the femimembranofus muf- de is inferred ; and a part of the crofs ligament is fixed to the externali On the outfide of this lafl tubercle, a finooth flightly-hollowed fiirface is formed by the adfion of the poplitceus mufcle. / Below the fore-part of the upper end of the tibia, a con- fiderable rough protuberance (g) rifes, to which the ftro;ig tendinous ligament of the rotula is fixed. On the internal fide of this, there is a broad fcabrous flightly-hol- lowed furface, ' to .which the internal long ligament of the joint, the aponeurofis of the vaftus internus, and the ten- dons of the feminervofus, gracilis, and fartorius, are fix- ed. The Icweft part of this furface is therefore the place where the tibia oUght to' be fawn through in an amputa- tion, fo as not to have too long and troublefome a flump, VoL. I. ^ g tind (j) A»tikh!^(ov, Anterior tuber.OF THE SKELETON. 234 Part I. and at the fame tirde to preferve its motions, by faring the proper mufcles. Below the external edge of the upper end of the tibia, there is a flat circular furface, covered in a recent fubje£l with cartilage, for the articulation of the fibula; between which and the anterior knob, a rough hollow affords origins to the tibialis anticus, and, extenfor digitorum longus. From this fmooth flat furface, a ridge runs obliquely downwards and inwards, to give rife to part of the folaeus, tibialis pofticus, and flexor digitorum lon- gus, and infcrtion to the aponeurofis of the femimembra* nofus which covers the poplitaeus, and to fome of the ex- ternal fibres of this laft-named mufcle. At the infide of this ridge an oblique plain furface is left, where the great- eft p:^rt of the mufculus poplitaeus ia.inferted. The remain- ing body of the tibia is triangular. The anterior angle is very fliarp, and is commonly called the /pine or Jhin {h). This ridge is not ftraight; but turns firft inwards, then , outwards, and laftly inwards again. The plain internal fide is fmooth and equal, being little fubje£led to the ac- tions of mufcles ; but the external fide is hollowed above by the tibialis anticus, and below by the extenfor digito- rum longus and extenfor pollicis longus. The two angles behind thefe fides are rounded by the action of the mufcles; the pofterior fide comprehended between them is not fo broad as thofe already mentioned, but is more oblique and flatted by the a£tion of the tibialis pofticus and flexor digi- torum longus.—A little above the middle of the bone, the internal angle terminates, and the bone is made round by the preflure of the mufculus foJteus. Near to this the paf- fage of the medullary velfels is feen flanting obliquely down- wards. The lower end of the tibia is hollowed, fo as to occafion a fmall protuberance to rife in the middle. The internal fide (h) Spina, ccrea, Unca piima tibiar, angulus acutus.Chap.II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 235 fide of this cavity, which is fmooth, and in a recent fub- je(R is covered with cartilage, is produced into a confider- able procefj, commonly named malleolus internus (/); the point of which is divided by a notch, and from it liga- ments are ifent out to the foot. We ought to obferve here, that this internal malleolus is fituated more forwards than the internal condyle of the upper end of this bone ; which is neceflary to be remembered in reducing a fra£Iure of the leg {h). The external fide of this end of the tibia has a rough irregular femilunar cavity formed in it for recei- ving the lower end of the fibula. The poflerior fide has two lateral grooves, and a fmall middle protuberance. In the internal depreflion, the tendons of the mufculus tibia- lis pofticus and flexor digitorum longus are lodged; and - in the external, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis plays. > From the middle protuberance, ligamentous flieaths go out, for tying down thefe tendons. The articulations and motions of the tibia fiiall be explain- ed, after all the three bones of the leg are defcribed. Both the ends of the tibia are cartilages at birth, and be- come afterwards epiphyfes. FIBULA. FinuLA (/), is the fmall long hope, placed on the out- fide of the leg, oppofite to the external angle of the tibia ; the fhape of it is irregularly triangular. The head- of the fibula has a fuperficial circular cavity formed on its Infide, which, in a recent fubjedl, is covered with a cartilage*, and it is fo clofely conne£led to the tibia by ligaments, as to allow only a fmall motion backwards G g 2 and (»■) Jjiufoy, Tt(T(r»f, Talus, claviciila, clavilla interior, clavilla donieflica. (i) Window, Expofition anatomique dci os fees, § 8<»j. (/) Perotie, focile minus, arundo minor, eanna minor' cru' ris, fura, radius.236 Part I. OF THE SKELETON. and forwards. This liead Is protuberant and rough on its outfide, where a ftrong round ligament and the mufculus bi- ceps are inferred ; and, below the back-part of its internal fide, a tubercle may be remarked, that gives rife to the Rrong tendinous part of the folteus mufcle. Tlte body of this bone is a little crooked inwards and backwards: whicli figure is owing to the adlions of die mufcles ; but is ftill farther increafed by nurfes, who often hold children carelefsly by the*legs. The flrarpelt angle of the fibula is forwards ; on each fide of which the bone is « confiderably, but unequally, deprelTed by the, bellies of the feveral mufcles that rife from or a£t upon it ; and in old people, thefe mufcles make diftinfl finuofities for them- felves. The external furface of the fibula is deprefled obr liquely from above downwards and backwards by the, two peronaei. Its internal furface is unequally divided into two narrow longitudinal planes, by an oblique ridge extended from the upper part of the anterior angle, to join with the lower end of the internal angle. To this ridge-the liga- ment ftretched between the two bones of the leg is connec- ted. The anterior of the two planes is very narrow above, where the extenfor longus digitorum and extenfor longus pollicis arife from it ; but is broader below, where it has the print of the nonus Vefalii. The pofterior plane is broad and hollow’, giving origin to the larger fhare of the tibialis pollicus. The internal angle of this bone'has a ten- dinous membrane fixed to it, from which fome fibres of the flexor digitorum longus take their rife. The pofteri- or furface'of the fibula is the plainefl and fmoothefl ; but is made flat above by the folaeus, and is hollowed below by the flexor pollicis longus. In- tlie middle of tliis furface, the canal for the medullary veflels may be ieen flanting down- wards. I have taken particular notice of the entry and direction ■(Chap.II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 237 • (of the medullary vefTels of the large bones of the extreml- I ties (/«); becaufe in feveral chirurgical cafes, a furgeon • who is ignorant of their fituation and courfe, may do mif- I chief to his patient. Thus, for example, if thefe veflcls are opened very near their entry into tlie bone, or while they are in the oblique paflage through it, an obftiuate hoemorrhagy may enfue : For the arteries being connedled to the bony paflage, ftyptics, and other like corrugators, are applyed in vain ; comprefiing inltruments can do no fervice, and ligatures cannot be employed. There feems to be a particular defigh in the contrivance of thefe canals; thofe in the os humeri, tibia, and fibula running oblique- ly downwards from their external entry ; whereas in the radius, ulna, and os femoris, they flant upwards, whereby the arteries and nerves which are fent into thefe three lafl bones mull fuffer a confiderable reflexion before they come ’■at the cancelli. The reafon of this dlverfity may perhaps be, that the arteries, which are fo fmall ■w'ithin the bones as to have no ftrong contractile propelling force in their coats, and where they are not allifled by the a£lion of any moving neighbouring organ, fhould have, at lead in their palTage through the bone, a favourable defeent for their li- quids : which, it is evident, they have in the defeending oblique'pafliiges formed for them in the lirfl: clafs of bones, to wit, the os humeri, tibia, and fibula, which are gene- rally depending ; and they alfo mod frequently acquire the like advantage in the radius, ulna, and os femoris ; becaufe the hand, in the mod natural podure, is higher than the elbow : And w^hen we fit or lie, the lower end of the thigh- comes to be at lead raifed as high as the upper end. In danding and walking, or when the arms are moved, the blood mud indeed afeend as it pafles through the bones of the fore-arm and thigh ; but the prefTurc of the mufrles, ’ ' then (m) Havers, Ofteolog. Nov. dif. I. p. 59,•238 OF THE SKELETON. Parti. then in a£lion on the veflels, before they enter the bones, is fufficient to compenfate the difadvantage of their courfe. This reafoning feems to be dill enforced, by obferving, that this paflage is always nearer the upper than the lower ends of thefe bones. Fhe lower end of the fibula is extended into a fpongy oblong head ; on the Infide of which is a convex, irregu- lar, and frequently a fcabrous, furface, that is received by the external hollow of the tibia, and fo firmly joined to it by a very thin intermediate cartilage and ftrong ligaments, that it fcarcc can move. Below this the fibula is flretched out into a fmooth coronoid procefs, covered with cartilage on its internal fide, and is there contiguous to the outfidc of the firft bone of the foot, the aftragalus, to fecure the articulation. This procefs, named malleolus, externus, be- ing Gtuated farther back than the internal malleolus, and in an oblique diredion, obliges us naturally to turn the fore-part of the foot outwards (w). At the lower inter- nal part of this procefs, a fpongy cavity for mucilaginous glands may be remarked; from its point ligaments are ex- tended to the aftragalus, os calcis, and os naviculare, bones of the foot; and from its infide fhort ftrong ones go out- to the,aftragalus. On the back part of it a finuofity is inade by the tendons of the peronaei mufcles. When the ligament extended over thefe tendons from the one fide of ihe depreflion to the other is broken, flretched too much, or made weak by a fprain, the tendons frequently ftart forwards to the outfide of the fibula. The- conjunction of the upper end of the fibula with the tibia is by plain furfaCes tipped with cartilage; and at its lower end the cartilage feems to glue the two bones toge- ther ; not, however, fo firmly in young people, but that the motion at the other end of fuch a long radius is very obfervable. (n) Window, Mem. de I’acad. des feicnces, 174*.239 Chap.II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. obfervable. In old fubje£ls I have often feen the two bones of the leg grown together at their lower ends. The principal ufe of this bone is to afford origin and In- fertion to mufcles; the diredion of which may be a little altered on proper occafions, by its upper part flmffling backwards and forwards. It Ilkewlfe helps to make the articulation of the foot more fecure and firm. The ends of the tibia and fibula being larger than their middle, a fpace is here left, which is filled up with fneh another liga- ment as I have defcrlbed extended between the bones of the fore-arm; and which is alfo difeontinued at its upper part, where the tibialis antlcus immediately, adheres to the folxus and tibialis pofticus ; but every where elfe it gives origin to mufcular fibres (o). Both the ends of this bone are cartilaginous in a ripe child, and affuine the form of appendices before they are united to its body. R O T U L A. Rotula (/>) is the fmall flat bone fituated at the fore- part of the joint of the knee. Its fhape refembles the common figure of the heart with its point downwards. The anterior convex fujface of the rotula is pierced by a great number of holes, into which fibres of the flrong li- , gament, that is fpread over it, enter. Behind, its furface is fmooth, covered' with cartilage, and divided by a middle convex ridge into two cavities, of which the external is largeft ; and both are exadly adapted to the pulley of the os femoris, on which they are placed in the mod ordinary undraining poftures of the leg^: but w'hen the leg is much and («) Wcitbrecht, Syndefmolog. p. 156. (p) f^v\xKpif, v.oyxpi, esrjy'OvaTif, TtKImirft,-), Patella, mola, genu, feutitorme os, cartilaginofura, ditciformc, oculus genu.243 OF- THE SKELETON. Parti. and when the leg is fully extended, the rotula rlfes higher in its upper part than the pulley of the thigh-bone.— ■ Tlic plain fmooth furface is furrounded by a rough prominent edge, to \<^hich the capfular ligament adheres : Below, the point of the bone is fcabrous, where the flrong tendinous ligament from the tubercle of the tibia is fixed. The upper horizontal part of this bone is flatted and unequal, where the tendons of the extenfors of the leg are inferted. ' . The fubflance of the rotula is cellular, with very thin external firm plates; but then thefe cells are fo fmall, and fuch a quantity of bone is employed in their formation, that fcarce any bone of its bulk is fo flrong. Befides, it is covered all over with a thick ligament, (as it was obferved ' that this fort of-bones generally is), to connedl its fub- «f Bance, and is moveable to one fide or other: therefore it is fufficientiy flrong to refift the ordinary actions of the ..large mufclcs that are inferred into it, or any common external force applied to it; while a fixed procefs, fuch as the olecranon, would not have been fufficient to bear the whole weight of cur bodies, which frequently falls on it, and would ha\"e hindered the rotatory motion of the leg. Notwithllanding thefe precautions to preferve this bone from fuch injuries, yet I have feen a tranfverfc fradture in it, when, by the report of the patient, and of the people about him, and by the want of /welling, difcolouring, or other mark of bntife or coutufion, it was plain the bone was broken by the violent Braining efi’ort of the mufcles (y). The ugh my patient recovered the ufe of the joint of the knee, yet I think it reafonable-to believe, that this fort of fradlure is commonly attended with dilhculty of motion after the broken parts of the rotula are reunited ; becaufe the callous nratter probably extends itfelf into the cavity of the joint, where it cither grows to foine of the parts, or makes ' fuch * . * (q) See Rufyeh. Oblerv. anat, chirurg. obf. 3.Chaj). II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 241 fuch an inequality on the furface of this bone, as does not allow it to perform the necelTary motions on the condyles of the femur (r). At the ordinary time of birth, the rotula is entirely cartila- ginous, and fcarcely aflumes a bony nature fo foon as moft cpiphyfes do. Tlie parts which conftitute the joint of the knee being now defcribed, let us examine what are its motions, and how^they are performed. The two principal motions are flexion and extenfion. In the former of thefe^ the leg may be brought to a very acute angle with the thigh, by the con- dyles of the thigh-bones being round and made fmboth far backwards. In performing this, the rotula is pulled down by the tibia. When the leg is to be extended, the rotula is drawn upwards, eonfequently the tibia forwards, by the extenfor mufcles; which, by means of the protuberant joint, and of this thick bone w'ith its ligament, ^have the chord, with which they adl, fixed to the tibia at a confiderable angle, acl, on that account, with advantage ; but they are reftrained from pulling the leg farther than to a ftralght line with the thigh, by the pofterior part of the crofs li- gament, that the body might be fupported by a firm per- pendicular colurrm : For at this time the thigh and leg are as little moveable in a rotatory way, or to either fide, as if they werei one continued bone. But when the joint is a little bent, the rotula is not tightly braced, and the poflerior ligament is relaxed ; therefore this bone may be moved a little to either fide, or with a fmall rotation in the fuperficial cavities of the tibia; which is done by the motion of the external cavity backwards and forwards, the internal ferving as a fort of axis (r). Seeing, then, one part of the crofs ligament is fituated perpendicularly, VoL. I. II h and (r) Pare, liv. 15. 32. (r) Winflow, Expofition anatomique tlu corps humaln. traite ies os fees S 976.Part I. 242 OF THE SKELETON. and the pofterior part is ftretched obliquely from the In- ternal condyle of the thigh outwards, that pofterior part of the crofs ligament prevents the leg from being turned at all inwards ; but it could not'hinder It from turning out- wards almofl; round, was not that motion confined by the lateral ligaments of this joint, which can yield little. This rotation of the leg outwards is of good advantage to,us in crofling our legs, and turning our feet outwards, on feve- ral neceflary occafions ; though It is altogether fit this mo- tion (hould not be very large, to prevent frequent luxa- tions here.—While all thefe motions are performing, tlie part of the tibia that moves Immediately on the condyles is only fo much of it as is within the cartilaginous ring, which by the thicknefs on their outfides make the cavities of the tibia more horizontal j by raifing their external fide where the furface of the tibia Hants downwards. By this means the motions of this joint are more equal and Heady than otherwife they would have been. The cartilages being ca- pable of changing a little their fituation, are fit for doing this good office In the different motions and pollures of the limb, and likewife contribute to make the motions larger and On account of the very large furface of the bones form- ing the joint of the knee, and the many ftrong ligaments, connedling them, luxations feldom liappen here. But thefe very ligaments, the aponeurofis paffing over this joint, and the quantity of fat and mucilaginous glands neceffary for lubricating it, make it more fubje£l: to white fwellings, drop- fies, and fuch other diforders, than any other joint of the body. § 3. ^he FOOT. The'foot Is divided, as well as the hand. Into three parts, viz. torJuSf metatarfus^ and toes : In the defcnption243 Chap.II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. of which, the feveral furfaces fliall be named, according to their natural fituation, viz. the broad upper part of the foot fliall be called fuperior ; the foie, inferior ; the fide oh which die great toe is, internal; and the other e^iternal. TARSUS. The tarfus (/) confifts of feven fpongy bones ; to wit, the aftragalus, os calcis, naviculare, cuboides, cuneiforme exter- num, cuneiforme medium, and cuneiforme mternum. The ajlragalus is the uppermofl; of thefe bones. The es calcis is below the aftragalus, and is confiderably pro- minent backwards beyond the other bones, to form the heel. The os naviculare is in the middle of the internal fide of the tarfus. The os cuboides is the moft external of the row of four bones at its fore-part. The os cuneiforme externum is placed at the infide of the cuboid——The cu- neiforme medium is between the external and internal cunei- form bones ; and the internal cuneiform is put at the internal fide of the foot. That the defcription of thefe bones may not be immo- derately fwelled with repetition, I defire, once for all, to obferve. That wherever a ridge is mentioned, without a particular ufe aftigned, a ligament is underftood to be fixed to it j or where a fpongy rough cavity, depreftion, or fofib, is remarked, without naming its ufe, a ligament is inferted, and mucilaginous glands are lodged : for fuch will occur in the detail, of each of thefe bones. Afragalus. The upper part of the aftragalus {it) is formed into'a large fmooth head (,v), which is ftightly hol- lowed in the middle ; and therefore refembles a fuperficial pulley, by which it is fitted to the lower end of the tibia. The internal fide of this head is flat and fmooth, to H h 2 play (/) Rafletta, V (u) 'A<rrf>!, Talus, ballift* os, inalleolns, chaib, quatrio, os tefTarsr, da. viculse, undformc. (xJ T’xftTo;.244 OF THE skeleton. Part T. play on the internal malleolus. The external fule has alfo fuch a furface, but larger, for its articulation with the ex- ternal malleolus. Round the bafe of this head there is a rough folTa ; and immediately before the head, as alfo below' its internal fmoolh furface, we find a confiderable rough cavity. The lower furface of the afiragalus is divided by an ir- regular deep rough folhi; which at its internal end is nar- row, but gradually widens as it llretches obliquely out- wards and forwards. The fnrooth furface, covered with cartilage, behind this fofla, is large, oblong, extended in the fame oblique fituation with the fofla, and concave for its conjun6Uon with the os calcis. The back-part of the edge of this cavity is produced into two ftiarp-pointed rough procelTes ; between which is a depreflion made by the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus.—^The lower fur- face before the folTa is convex, and compofed of three dlf- tin£t fmooth planes.—-The long one behind, and the ex- terior or fliortefl:, are articulated with the heel-bone ; while the internal, which is the mofl; convex of the three, refts and moves upon a cartilaginous ligament, that is conti- nued from the calcaneum to the os fcapholdes. Without which ligament the aftragalus could not be fullained ; but would be prefled out of its place by the great weight it fupports, and the other bones of the tarfus would be fepa- rated. Nor would a bone be fit here, becaufe it mufl; have been thicker than could conveniently be allowed ; otherwife it would break, and w'ould not prove fuch an eafy bending bafe, to leflen the fliock which is given to the body in leaping, running, &c. The fore-part of this bone is formed into a convex ob- long fmooth head, called by fome its procefsy which is re- ceived by the os naviculare. Ropnd the root of this head, efpeciallyChap, II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 245 efpecially on the upper furface, a rough fofla may be re- niaikecl, 1 The aftragalus is articulated above to the tibia and fibu- hi, which together form one cavity. Though in this iirti- culation the bones have prominences and cavities, fo fmall as might allow motions in all directions, yet the flexion and extenfion are the mofl: conllderable, the other motions be- ing confined by the malleoli, and, by the ftrong ligaments which go out from the points pf thefe proceiTes, to the a- ftragalus and os calcis. When the foot is bent, fo far as it commonly is when we ftand, no lateral or rotatory motion is allowed in this joint; for then the head of the qftragalus is funk deep between the malleoli, and the liga- ments are tenfe ; but when the foot is extended, the aflra- galus can move a little to either fide, and with a fmall ro- tation. By this contrivance the foot is firm, when the weight of the body is to be fupported on it; and when a foot is raifed, we are at liberty to direCt it more exaCUy to the place we intend next to ftep upon. The aftragalus is joined below to the os calcis ; and before to the os navlcu- lare, in the rnanner to be explained when thefe bones are de- feribed. A confiderable (bare of this bone is oflified in a new-born Infant. Calcaneum (w) is the largeft bone of the feven. Be- hind, it is formed into a large knob, commoly called the h(el: the furface of which is rough behind, where the ten- do Achillls Is iqferted ; and above that part it is hollow and fpongy. Farther forwards, on the upper furface of the calcaneum, there is an irregular oblong fmooth convexity^ adapted to the concavity at the back-part of the aftragalus: and beyond this a narrow folTa is feen, which divides it from two fmall concave fmooth furfaces, that are joined to (w) Os calcis, irreftK, calcar pedis..24^ OF THE SKELETON. Part I. to the fore-part of the aflragalus.—Behind the pofterior of thefe fmooth furfaces, which is the largeft, a fmall fmuo- fity is made by the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus j at the fore-part of which a fmall rough protuberance ap- pears, that gives rife to the mufculus extenfor digitorum brevis. The external fide of this bone is fiat, with a fuperficial fofla running horizontally, in which the tendon of the, muf- culus peronaeus longus is lodged. The Internal fide of the heel-bone is hollowed, for lodging the origin of the mafia cornea Jac. Sylvii, and for the fafe palTage of tendons, nerves, and arteries. Under the fide of the internal fmooth concavity, a particular groove is made by the ten- don of the flexor polJicis longus ; and from the thin pro- tuberance of this internal fide the cartilaginous ligament that fupports the aftragalus, goes out to the os naviculare; on which ligament, and on the edge of this bone to which it is fixed, the groove is formed for the tendon of the flexor digitorum profundus. The lower furface of this bone is prefied flat at the back- part, by the weight of our bodies; and immediately before this plane, there are two tubercles, 'from the Internal of which the mufculus abdu£tor pollicis, flexor digitorum fub- limis, as alfo part of the aponeurofis plantaris, and of the abdudtor minimi digiti, have their origin j' and the other part of the abdu£lor minimi digiti and aponeurofis plantaris rifes from the external. Before thefe protuberances this bone is concave, for lodging the flexor mufcles ; and at its fore-part we may obferve a rough depreflfion, from which, -and a tubercle behind it, the ligament goes out that prevents this bone from being feparated from the os cuboides. The fore-part of the os calcis is formed into an oblong pulley-like fmooth furface, which is circular at its upper externalChap.II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 247 external end but is pointed below. The fmooth furface is fitted to the os cubpides. Though the furfaces by which the aftragalus and os cal- cis are articulated, feem fit enough for motion 5 yet the very ftrong ligaments by which thefe bones are connected, prevent much motion, and render this principal part of our . bafe, which refts on the ground, firm. A large fliare of the heel-bone is ofTified at the ordinary time of birth, and the large knob appears afterwards in form of an epiphyfe. Os naviculare (y), is fomewhat circular It Is form- ed into an oblong concavity behind, for receiving the ante,i' rior head of the aftragalus. On the upper furface there is a rough fofla. Below, the os naviculare is very un- equal and rough ; but hollow for the fafety of the mufcles. — On its infide a large knob rifes out, from which the abdudlor pollicis takes in part its origin, the tendon of the tibialis pofticus is inferted into it, and to it two remarkable ligaments are fixed *, the firft is the ftrong one, formerly mentioned which fupports the aftragalus ; the fecond is ftretched from this bone obliquely crofs the foot, to the metatarfal bones of the middle toe, and of the toe next to the little one.—On the outfide of the os naviculare there is a femicircular ‘fmooth furface, where it is joined to tlie os cuboides. The fore-part of this bone is all covered with cartilage, and is divided into three fmooth planes, fitted to the three ofla cuneiformia. ^ The os naviculare and aftragalus are joined as a ball and focket; and-the naviculare moves in all dire£Hons in turn- ing the toes inwards, or in laifing or deprefiing either fide of the foot, though the motions are greatly .reftrained by the ligaments which connc£l this to the other bones of the tarfus. (^) SnKfeii/'rf, Os cynjbjs.Fatt T. \ 245 OF THE SKELETON. tarfus. A weaknefs of thefe ligaments caufes fometimes an unnatural turn of the fore-part of the foot inwards. The os naviculape is wholly cartilaginous in a new-born infant. ‘ Os cuboidei (z) is a very irregular cube Behind, it is formed into an oblong unequal concavity, adapted to the fore-part of the os cakis. On its internal fide, there is a frnall femicircular fmooth cavity, to join the os naviculare. Immediately before’ which, an oblong fmooth plane is '.made by the os cuneiforme externum. Below this the bone is hollow and rough.- On the internal fide of the lower furface a round protuberance and fofTa are found, where the inufeulus adductor pollicis has its origin. On the ex-= ternal fide of this fame furface, there is a round knob, co- vered with cartilage ; immediately before which a fmooth fofia may be obferved, in which the tendon of the pero- nxus primus runs obliquely crofs the foot; and on the knob the thin flat cartilage proper to this mufcle plays; in place of which fometimes a bone is found : More external- ly than the knob, a rough hollow is made, for the ftrong ligaments ftretched between this bone and the os calcis. — Before, the furface of the os cuboides is flat, fmooth, and flightly divided into two planes, for fuftainlng the os mctatarfi of the little toe, and of the toe next to it. The form of the back-part of the os cuboides, and the li- gaments connecling the joint with os calcis, both concur in allowing little motion in this part. The oflfification of this bone is fcarcely began at the birth. Os cuneiforme exiernum {a)f if we regard its fituatiqn or medium by its bulk, is much of the fhape of a wedge, be- ing. (z) Uohunopifov, Cubiforme, quadratum, grandinofutn varium telTarif tnultiforme. (fl) Chalcoidcum extemura*Chap II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. ing broad and flat above, with long fides running oblique- ly downwards, and terminating in a fliarp edge. The up- per furface of. this bone is an oblong fquare. The one be- hind is nearly a triangle, but not complete at the inferior angle, and is joined to the os naviculare. The external flde is an oblong fquare divided as it were by a diagonal } the upper half of it is fmooth, for its conjundion with the os cuboides: The other is a fcabrous hollow,^ and in its fuperior anterior angle a fmall fmooth imprelTion is made by the os metatarfl of the toe next to the little one. The internal fide of this bone is alfo quadrangular, with the fore-part of its edge made flat and fmooth by the os metatarfl of the toe next to the great one, and the back-part is alfo flat and fmooth where the os-euneiforme medium is contiguous to it. The fore-part of this bone is an oblong triangle, for fuS;aining the os metatarfl of the middle toe; Os cuneiforme medium, or mlmm^tn, is ftill more exa£Ily the fliape of a wedge than tlie former. Its fipper part is fquare ;—its internal fiile has a flat fmooth furface above and behind, for its conjundtion with the following bone; with a fmall rough fofla below ; and a confiderable fliare of it is rough and hollow. The external fide is fmooth and a little hollowed, where it is contiguous to the lafl; defcrib- ed bone;——Behind, this bone is triangular, where it is arti- culated with the os naviculare ; and it is alfo triangular at its fore-part, where it is contiguous to the os metatarfl of the tot? next to the great one. Os cuneiforme^ maximum^ or internum, differs from the two former in its fituation, which is more oblique than theirs. Befides, its broad thick part is placed below, t and the fmall thin point is above and outwards ; while its under broad furface is concave, for allowing a fafe pafliige to the flexor of the great toe. The furface of this os cu- VoL.I. I i ueiformeOF THE SKELETON. Parti 150 neiforme behind, where it is joined to the os naviculare, is hollow, fmooth, and of a circular figure below, but pointed above. The external fide confifts of two fmooth and flat furfaces, whofe dire£lion is nearly at right angles with each other. With the poflerior, that runs obliquely from below forwards and upwards, the os cuneiforme mi- nimum is joined ; and with the anterior, whofe dire£lion is longitudinal, ' the os metatarfi of the toe next to the great one is connefted. The fore-part of this bone is femi- lunar, but flat and fmooth, for fuftaining the os metatarfi of the great toe. The internal fide is fcabrous, with two re- markable tubercles below, from which the mufculus abduc- tor poUicis rifes, and the tibialis anticus is inferted into its upper part. The three cuneiform bones are all fo fecured by ligaments, that very little motion is allowed in any of them, and they are cartilaginous in a fcetus of nine months. The feven bones of the tarfus^ when joined, are con- vex above, and leave a concavity below, for lodging fafely the feverul mufcles, tendons, velTels, and nerves, that lie in the foie of the foot. In the recent fubjed, their upper and lower furfaces are covered with llrong ligaments, which adhere firmly to them ; and all the bones are fo tightly conne£led by thefe and the other ligaments, which are fix- ed to the rough ridges and foflie mentioned in the proceed- ing defcription of the particular bones, that notwithfland- ing the many furfaces covered with cartilage, fome of which are of the form of the very moveable articulations, no more motion is here' allowed, than only to prevent too great a fhock of the fabric of the body in walking, leap- ing, &c. by falling on too folid a bafe ; which, if it was one continued bone, would likewife be much more liable to be broken ; and, in order to make our foot accommo- date itfelf to the furfaces we tread on, by becoming more or(Chap. II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 251 (or lefs hollow, or by raifing or deprelTing either fide of iit, as might be judged by what was faid of the particular 1 bones. Sprains occafion here, as in the wrill, great pain and ob- i ftinate tumours, which too often caufe carious bones. METATARSUS. Metatarsus (o) is compofed of five bones, which, in I their general charafters, agree with the metacarpal bones ; but may be diflinguUhed from them by the following marks: i. They are longer, thicker, and ftronger. 2. Their anterior round ends are not fo broad, and are lefs in proportion to their bafes. 3. Their bodies are fharper above and flatter on their fides, with their inferior ridge inclined more to the outfide- 4. The tubercles at the lower part of the round head are larger. The firft or internal metatarfal bone is eafily diftinguifhed from the reft by its thicknefs. The one next to it is the longeft, and with its fliarp edge almoft perpendicular. The others are fhorter and more oblique, as their fituation is more external. Which general remarks, with the defcrlptiori I am now to give of each, may teach us to diftinguiih them from each other. Os metatarji pollkis is by far the thickeft and ftrongeft, as having much the greateft weight to fuftain. Its bafe is oblong, irregularly concave, and of a femilunar figure, to be adapted to the os cuneiforme maximum. The inferior edge of this bafe is a little prominent and rough, where the tendon of the peronasus primus mufcle is inferted. On its outfide an oblique circular depreflTion is made by the fecond metatarfal bone. Its round head has generally I i 2 on (a) STuS-or. xiiter, Plant*, planum, folium, peftus, precordi- um, pedhifculum.152 Part I. OF THE SKELETON. on its fore-part a middle ridge, and two oblong cavities, for the ofla fefamoidea ; and on the external fide a depreflion is made by the following bone. Os metatarft of the fecond toe, is the longell-of the five, with a triangular bafe fupported by the os cuneiforme me- dium and the external fide produced into a procefs ; the end of which is an oblique fmooth plane, joined to the os cuneiforme externum. Near the internal edge of the bafe, this bone ha.s two fmall deprelfions, made by the os cuneiforme maximum, between which is a rough cavity. ——Farther forwards we may obferve a fmooth protuberance, which is joined to the foregoing bone. On the outfide of the bafe are two oblong fmooth furfaces, for its articulation with the following bone ; the fuperior fmooth furface being extended longitudinally, and the inferior perpendicularly ; •between which there is a rough folTa. Os metaiarfi of the middle toe, is the fecond in length.——— Its bafe, fupported by the os cuneiforme externum, is trian-: gular, but flanting outwards, where it ends in a fltarp- pointed little procefs ; and the angle below is not comple- ted. The internal fide of this bafe is adapted to the 'preceding bone j and the external fide has alfo two fmooth furfaces covered with cartilage, but of a different figure ; for the up- per one is concave, and being round behind, turns fmaller as it advances forwards ; and the lower furface is little, fmooth, convex, and very near the edge of the bafe. Os metatarft of the fourth toe, is near as long as the for- mer, with a triangular flanting bafe joined to the os cu- boides, and made round at its external angle ; having one ' hollow fmooth furface on the outfide, where it is preffed upon by the following bone ; and two on the internal fide, correfponding to the former bone ; behind which is a long narrow furface imprefled by the os cuneiforme externurti. Oi \Chap. IT. IN F E R10 R E X T R E MI T,I e's. 253 Of metatarft of the little toe, is the fliorteft, fituated with its two flat fides above and below, and with the ridges late- rally The bafe of it, part of which refts on the os cu- boides, is very large, tuberous, and produced into a long- pointed proccfs externally, where part of the abdudfor mini- mi digiti is fixed ; and into its upper part the peronajus fc- cundus is inferted. Its infule has a flat conoidal furface, where it is contiguous to the preceding bone. When we ftand, the fore-ends of thefe metatarfal bones, 'and the os calcis, are our only fupporters •, and therefore it is neceflary That they fliould be ftrong, and lliould' have tt confined motion. TOES. The bones of the toes are nearly fimilar to thofe of the thumb and fingers; particularly the two of the great, toe are precifely formed as the two lafl; of the thumb; only their pofition, in refpe£l of the other toes, is .not oblique; and they are porportionally 'much flronger, becaufe they are fubjeded to a greater force ; for they fuftain the force with which our bodies are puflied forwards by the foot be- hind at every ftep we make; and on them principally the weight of the body is fupported, when we are raifed on our tip-toes. The three bones in each of the other four toes, compa- red to thofe of the fingers, diflbr from them in thefe par- ticulars. They are lefs and fmaller in proportion to their lengths : Tlieir bafes are much larger than their anterior ends: Their bodies are more narrow above than below, and flatter on the fides. The firfl: phalanx is proportionally much longer than the bones of the fecond and third, which are verv fliort. ^ Of the four, the toe next to the great one has the largeft bones in all dimenfions, and more externally the toes are lefsOF THE SKELETON. 254 Part I. the I lefs. The little toe, and frequently that next to it, have the fecond and third bones intimately united into one ; which may be owing to their little motion, and the great preflure they are fubjedb to. i The toes are of great ufe to us in walking ; for, when the foie is raifed, they bring our body, with its centre of gravity, perpendicular to the advanced foot. The bones of the metatarsus and toes, are in the fame condition in children as thofe of the metacarpus and fingers. ' ' f ' The only bones now remaining to complete the defcrip- tlon of tire fkeletonj are the fmall ones which are found at the joints of the fingers and toes, and in fome other parts, called OSSA SESAMOIDEA. These are of very dilFerent figures and fizes, though they are generally faid to refemble the feed of the fefa- They feem to me nothing elfe than the liga- ments of the articulations, or the firm tendons of ftrong mufcles, or both, become bony by the comprefllon which they fufter. Thus the fefamoid bones at the beginning of the gaftrocnemii mufcles, are evidently compofed of the tendinous fibres only^ Thefe, at the firft joint of the great toe, are as plainly the fame continued fubfiance with the ligaments and the tendons of the addu£lor, flexor, bre- vis, and abducflor. That which is fometimes double at the fecond joint of that toe is part of the capfular ligament; and if we enumerate the other fefamoid bones that are at any time found, we may obferve all of them formed in this manner Their number, figure, fituation, and mag- nitude, are fo uncertain, that it were in vain to infill onChap. II. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 255 the differences of each; and therefore I (hall only in general remark, 1. That wherever the tendons and ligaments are firm- eft, the a£lions of the mufcles ftrongeft, and the com- preffion greateft, there fiich bones are moft commonly found. 2. That, caieris paribus, the older the fubje£l is in which they are fought, their number is greater, and their fize larger. 3. The more labour any perfon is inured to, he has, ceteris paribus, the moft numerous and largeft olTa fefamoi- dea. However, as the two at the firft joint of the great toe are much larger than any other, are early formed, and are feldom wanting in an adult, we may judge, that be- fides the more forcible caufe of their formation, there fliould alfo be fome particular advantage neceffary at this place, rather than elfewhere; which may poffibly be, to allow the flexor mufcles to fend their tendons along this joint, fecure from corapreffion in the hollow between the two oblong fefamoid bones ; while by removing thefc tendons from the centre of motion, and giving them the advantage of an angle at their infertion, the force of the mufcle is Increafed; and therefore the great fuperin- cumbent weight of our body in progreflion is more eafdy raifed.fj ( 25^ 5 The APPENDIX. K Marks of a FEMALE Skeleton^ 1 TO finifli the defcnptiori of the bones, is gerferally toi contlude the oftcology: but, that no part of the fubjedl may be left untouched, I think it necelTary to fub- join the diftingullhing marks of the Male and Female Ike- letons ; and I have chofen to illuflrate them principally iti the latter; becaufe women having a more delicate confti- tution, and aflbrding lodging and nourilhment to their ten- der foetufes till they have fufFicient ftrength and firmnefs to bear the injuries of the atmofphere, and contaifl of other more folid fubftances, their bones are frequently in- complete, and always of a make in forne parts of the body different from thofe of the robufl: male ; which agree to the defeription already given, unlefs where the proper fpe- cialifies of the female were particularly remarked which could not be done in all places where they occur, without perplexing the order of this treatife : Therefore I choofe rather to fum them up here by way of appendix. The caufes of the following I’pecialities of the female bones may be reduced to thefe three : i. *A weak lax conftitution. 2. A fedentary una£llve life, increafing that conllitution. 3. A proper frame for being mothers. The bones of women are fmaller in proportion to their length than thofe of men; becaufe the force of their mufcles is not fo great, nor is fuch ftrong external force applied to them to prevent thch ftretchiog out in length.FEMALE SKELETON. 257 The VoL. I. K k App. The depreJftonSy ride^es, fcahrous furfuces, and other in- equalities made by the mufcleSy are not fo confpicuous in them; becaufe their mtifcles are neither fo thick nor ftrong, nor fo much employed, as to make fo ftrong prints on their bones. The os frontis is more frequently divided by a conti- nuation of the fagittal future ; which depends on the firft and fecond general caufes alTigned above for the fpecial- ties in tli,eir bones, as will appear after refledling on the ac- count given formerly of the middle internal fpine of this bone. Their clavicles are lefs crooked ; becaufe their arms have been lefs forcibly pulled forwards ; which, in our European ■women, efpecially thofe of diftindiion, is more hindered by their garb. Their Jlernum is more raifed by long cartilages belo'W, that the thorax might be there widened in fome proportion to what it is fliortened by the preffure upon the diaphragm when they are with child. The defedl of hone, or the, hole, in the middle of the Jlcrnunty is ofteneft found in them ; to allow the paffage of the mammary veflels, fay fome. But, in my opinion, this is owing to a lax conftitution, by which the oflification is not fo foon completed as in men, where the adlion of the folids is vigorous, and the circulation of the fluids is brifk : for a much fmaller hole might have ferved this purpofe ; and the branches of the Intarnal mammary veflels which are fent to the external parts of the thorax, do not pafs here, but between the cartilages of the ribs, before tiiefe are joined to the fternuni. ‘ The cartilago xiphotdeSy is oftener bifurcated in women than in men, for the reafon afligned in the preceding paragraph, viz. a lefs forcible power of oftification.258 OF THE BONES. Part j The fuperior cartilages of the ribs foonet ofGfy, to fupport tlie weight of the mammae. The middle cartilages are more flat and broad by the weight of the breafts. The inferior cartilages are longer, for enlarging the '' cheft. Weak women, who have borne many children when young, often have the vertehrs of their back bent forwards, ' and their Jlermtm depreffed, or become round-fliouldered and flat-breafled (i), by the preflure and weight of the im- pregnated uterus, and by the ftrong a£lion of the abdominal mufcles. The os facrum is broader, and turned much more back-, wards, for enlarging the pelvis. The os coccygis is more moveable, and much lefs bent for- wards, to facilitate the birth. The o^a ilium are more hollow, and more refle61;ed out- wards, and confequently further removed from each other, in order to widen the lower part of their abdomen, and for the better fupport of the impregnated uterus. The ridge on the upper part of the os pubis is larger in fuch women as have borne children, being extended by the ftrong action of the mufcuH re£H abdominis. The cartilage between the two ofla pubis efpecially in women who have borne children, is thicker than in men, by which the pelvis is more capacious in females^ The conjoined fur faces of the offi pubis and of the ofpi innominata and Jacrum, are lefs, the angle under the fym- phyfts of the offapubis, is mqch larger, and the arches formed below and behind by the offa ilium and ifchium are wider, which, with the ftraighter os facrum^ and more diftant /«- bera ifchiiy leave a larger paflage for the exclufion of the child in birth. {b) Chefelden, Anatomy, book I.cliay. l.^FEMALE SKELETON. 257 The great hSeroJity of the ojpi ifchiufn Is flatter In women than In men, becaufe It Is more prelTed upon In the fedentary life which females enjoy. In confequence of tlie pehis of women being wider, the articulations of their thigh-bones muft be farther removed from each other ; and therefore a larger fpace Is left for the procreation and bitth of children (c)} which diftance of the thighs may be one reafon why women in running flauflle more from one fide to the other than men, to preferve the centre of gravity of their bodies front falling too far to a fide of the joint of the thigh that fupports them when the other is railed, which would endanger their tumbling to the ground. (c) Alblii. be ofiib. § 339. K k a \ AA I SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. PART II. < CONTAINING A DESCRIPTION OF THE HUMAN MUSCLES, Chiefly as they appear on Dissection. Together with their feveral Uses, and the Synonyma of the bcfl Authors. > By JOHN INNES. T O 'ALEXANDER MONRO, M.D, Professor of Anatomy and Medicine in the Univerfity of Edinburgh. SIR, Having been repeatedly folicited, for feveral years paft, by many of your Pupils, to publifli a fliort Defeription of the Mufcles as they appear upon Difledlion of the Human body, I have at laft ventured to comply with their requeft. Your anxie- ty to promote the Science of Anatomy, and to encourage every thing that, may be ufeful to the gentlemen who attend your Theatre, was the principal motive which induced me to under- take this taflv. I have no knowledge of the fubjeft but what I derived from you. If, therefore, this Treatife, which you have never feen till I now prefent it to you, fliould communicate any t advantage to the gentlemen under your care, it is to you alone they are indebted for the obligation. I am. Sir, with refpeft, gratitude, and efteein, your much obliged and very humble fei- vant, ErriNBUJiGH, 7 J776. i JOHN INNES, P R E-( 26l > 'preface. QE VERAL full and accurate defer!ptions of the mufcles have af- ready been publiflied. But their fize and prolixity have ren- dered them of lefs value to the dilTeftor than the fmall treatife of Dr Douglas, which was firft publiflied about the beginning of this century; and fince that time has undergone various impreflions, without receiving any improvement, excepting the addition of the fynonyma from Albinus. It is therefore prefumed, that a limple and concife defeription of the mufcles, which fliould contain all the improvements of the moderns, is ftill wanting. To clafs the mufcles according to their ufes, may do very well in I a large work, or in deferibing their compound adlions : But this me- thod can never anfwer the purpofes of dilTedlion. To remedy this inconvenience, the mufcles in the following Treatife are deferibed chiefly as they appear in dilTecfting the human body. The deferibing ofthe mufcles according to their origins and infer- tions prevents much circumlocution. This is the method purfued by Dr Douglas; and wherever his deferiptions feemed tolerably ac- curate, they have been followed with little alteration. But Dr Douglas’s book is peculiarly defeftivfe =with regard to the mufcles of the abdomen, back, and neck: in deferibing thefe, therefore the method of Albinus has been preferred. Thofe who have not opportunity, or are averfe from undergo- ing the labour of diflefting, may deiive conlidcrable advantages fiom comparing the deferiptions now given with the beautiful and corredl tables of Albinus; and, to facilitate ftill more the ftudy of thefe intricate organs, I have caufed eight of Albinus’s tables to- be publiflied, with concife explanations, on a fmall fcale adapted for the pocket. - i For the benefit of thofe who wifli to examine the hiftory of the mufcles more minutely, the fynonyma of the beft authors are added ; and, for the fake of brevity, the compound adion of the mufcles, I and the origin and infertion of feveral inconflderable fibres, are o- mitted. The reader will obferve, that in general, the mufcles of one fide only are deferibed; becaufe all the mufcles of the body, with veiy few exceptions, have con’efpondent ones on the oppofite fide. AA fliort Account of the AUTHORj And of his WRITINGS. R JbHN Innes, author of the following Treatife, was borri at Callart, an obfcure village in the Highlands of Scot-i land. He came to Edinburgh at an early period of life, where he obtained the patronage and proteftion of Dr Alexander Monro, Profeffor of Anatomy ; who inftrudted him in the knowledge of the human bodyj and in the art of difleftion. When he was about the age of eighteen years, Dr Monro appointed him difledtor to the anatomical theatre. The fundtions of this important and difficult office, he continued to perform with much reputation for flear twen* But his abilities were ndt confined to the dexterity of diifedting the molt minute parts of the human frame. He defcribed the various ' organs with eafe and with pertpicuity. This happy talent attradted the notice of the Undents; and, at their felicitation, and by the ap- probation of Dr Monro, he opened an evening couife of anatomical demonftrationS. The number of pupils who annually attended thefe demonftra^' tions afforded the beft evidence of his abilities, and of the advantages derived from his labours. During his laft courfe, he was attended by near two hundred Undents. For fome time before his deathj he was troubled vvith an affec- tion of tlie lungs, which terminated in a phthifis pulmonalis, and proved fatal to him on the lath of January 1777. On the 15th of the fame month, the follo\wng account of him ap- peared in the public papers : “ Mr John Innes, at an early period of life, had been educated in the diffedting art: He made a rapid progrefs in his profeffion ; and his genius and induftry were rewarded with the pi ivilege of giving private ledturcs for his own emolument. The utility of his leffons was foon perceived. Numbers of ftudents refqrted to ty years. / i him V2«3 ACCOUNT OF THE AUTHOR. him for inftrudtion; and all of them acknowledged the advan- tages they had received. At that ftage of life when men are moft capable of benefiting themfelves, and of being ufefiil to the public, death hurried him out of the world. He has given two fmall fpecimens of what was to be expedted from his anatomical Ikill. In the courfe of laft year, he publilhed a lliort defcription i of the Human Mufcles as they appear on difledlion, together with their feveral ufes, aiid the fynonyma of the belt authors. The merit of this work was univerfally acknowledged. Some months I after, he publiflied, as a vade mecum for ftudents, eight anatomical tables, containing the principal parts of the ikeleton and mufcles reprefented in the layge tables pf Albinus, with accurate explana- tions. Thefe are all the monuments he has left, by which the public are to judge of his ability. To his numerous friends and ac- quaintance, it is unneceflary to mention the warmth of his heart, of ' the integrity of his difpofitiqn.” ADVERTISEMENT.' •rxURING the illnefs of which Mr Innes died, he put into my ^ hands the firft edition of his Defcription of the Mufcles, with a few, chiefly verbal, corredtions of it. On perufing that work lately, at the requeft of the Bookfeller, I have found it neceflfary to make a very confiderable number of al- terations in what relates to the defcription, as well as to the ufes, of the Mufcles. Sept. ■> 1777- i A L B X. M O N R Q. - C H2A p.( 264 ) CHAP. I. \ ■ ^ Muscles ^ the Teguments of the Cranium. r- * The fkln that covers the cranium is moved by a Gngle broad digaftric mufcle, and one fmall pair. I. OcciPiTo Frontalis, Arifes flefliy from the tranfverfe protuberant ridge near the middle of the os occipitis laterally, where it joins with the temporal bone ; and tendinous from the reft of that ridge backwards, oppofite to the lateral Gnus; it arifes af- ter the fame manner on the other fide : From thence it comes ftraight forwards, by a broad thin tendon, which co- vers the upper part of the cranium at each fide, as law down as the attollens aurem, to which it is conne£led, as alfo to the zygoma, and covers a part of the aponeuroGs of the temporal mufcles; when it comes as far forwards as near the hair of the front, it becomes flefliy, and defeends with ftraight flbres. Ltferted into the orbicularis palpebrarum of each fide, and into the ficin of the eye-brows, fending down a flefhy flip be- tween them, as far as the comprelTor naris and levator labii fuperioris alaeque nafi. life. Pulls the fldn of the head backwards; raifes the eye- brows upwards; and, at the fame time, it draws up and wrinkles the fkln of the forehead. EpicraniuSy Albinus. ’ Frtntalis et occipitalisf Winflow. 2. Cor-Chap. II. O F T H E E A R. 26^ 2. CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII. Ar'ifcs flefliy from the internal angular procefs of the os frontis, above the joining of the os nafi, and nafU procefs of the fuperior maxillary bone ; from thence it runs outwards, and a little upwards. Inferted into the inner and inferior flefliy part of the occl- pito-frontalis mufcle, where it joins with the orbicularis palpebrarum, and extends outwards as far as the middle of the fuperciliary ridge. life. To draw the eye^brow of that fide towards the other, and make it projeift over the inner canthus of the eye : When both add, they pull down the fldn of the fore- head, and make it wrinkle, particularly between the eye- brows. JSIufculus Superciliii Winflow. Mufculus Frontalis verus^ feu Corrugator, Douglas, CHAP. II. \ 0/ M U S C L E s of E A r1 npHE mufcles of the ear may be divided into three claf- fes, viz. the common, proper, and internal. The common move the whole ear ; the proper only affedl the par- ticular parts to which they are conneaed ; and the internal, the fmall bones within the tympanum. The common mufcles are, I. Attollens Aurem, Arfes thm, broad, and tendinous, from the tendon of VoL. I. T. 1 ^266 OF THE MUSCLES. Part II. the occipito-frontalis, from which it is almoft infepa- rable, where it covers the aponeurofis of the temporal mufcle. In/'eried into the upper part of the ear, oppofite to the an- tihelix. To draw the ear upwards, and make the parts into which it is inferted tenfe. Superior aurisy Winflow. 2. Anterior Auris, Arijes thin and membranous near the pollerior part of the I zygoma. Inferted into a fmall eminence on the back of the helix, op- pofite to the concha. Ufe. To draw this eminence a little forwards and up- wards. Q. Retrahentes Auris, •f * jir Arifey fometimes by three, but always by two diftimSl fmall mufcles, from the external and pofterior part of the root of the maftoid procefs, immediately above the infertion of the fterno-cleido-maftoid mufcle. Inferted into that part of the back of the ear which Is oppofite to the feptum that divides the fcapha and concha. Ufe. To draw the ear back, and flretch the concha. Tojlerior aur'tsy Winflow. The proper mufcles are, I. ^Helicis Major, Arifes from the upper and acute part of the helix anteri- orly. Inferted into its cartilage a little above the tragus. Vfe.Chap. ir. OF THE EAR. 267 I Ufe> To deprefs that part from which it arifes a little downwards and forwards. 2. H E LI c I s Minor, Arifes from the inferior and anterior part of the helix. luferted into the crus of the helix, near the fiflure In the \ cartilage oppofite to the concha. Ufe. To contradl; the fiffure. 3. Tragicusj Arifes from the middle and outer part of the concha, at the root of the tragus, along which it runs. Inferted into the point of the tragus. Ufe, Pulls the point of the tragus a little forwards. 4. Antitragicus, ' Arifes from the internal part of the cartilage that fupports the antitragus ; and, running upwards is Inferted into the tip of the antitragus, as far as the infe- rior part of the antihelix, where there is a fiflure in the car- tilage. Uje. Turns the tip of the antitragus a little outwards, and deprelTes the extremity of the antihelix towards it. 5. Transversus Auris, Arifes from the prominent part of the concha on the dorfum of the ear; the fibres not fo flefhy as in the for- mer. Inferted oppofite to the outer fide of the antihelix. Ufe. Draws the parts to which it is connedted towards each other, and ftretches the fcapha and concha. The mulcles of the Internal ear are three : I. Laxator Tympani, Arifes by a fmaU begining from the extremity of the L 1 2 fpinousOF THE MUSCLES 26S Part. II. fpinous pTocefs of the fphenoid bone, behind the entry of the artery of the dura mater ; then runs backwards, and a little upwards, along with the nerve called chorda tympdm, in a filTure of the os temporis near the foffa that lodges the condyle of the lower jaw. Inferted into the long procefs of the malleus, within the tympanum, where it refts upon the edge of the fiflure be- tween the pars fquamofa and petrofa. Ufe, To draw the malleus obliquely forwards towards its origin, and confequently the membrana tympani; by which means that membrane is made lefs concave, or is relaxed. Externus mallei, Albinus. Anterior mallei, Winllow, Obliquus auris, Douglas. 2. Tensor Tympani, Arifcs by a very fmall beginning, from the cartilagi- nous extremity of the Euftachian tube, juft where it be- gins to be covered by the pars petrofa, and fpinous procefs of the fphenoid bone, near the entry of the artery of the dura mater; from thence running backwards near the of- feous part of the Euftachian tube, it forms a very diftin£l flefliy belly, below a thin ofleous plate, between the pars fquamofa and labyrinth ; and fends off a flender tendon, M'hich makes a turn into the tympanum along with the nerve called chorda tympani, Inferted into the pofterior part of the handle of the mal- leus, a little lower than the root of its long procefs. Ufe. To pull the malleus and membrana tympani inwards towards the pars petrofa, by which the membrane is made more concave and tenfe. internus mallei, Winfiow. Internus auris, Douglas. 3. Stapedius, Arifes, by a fmall fldhy belly, from a little cavern in theChap. III. OF THE EYE-LIDS. I the pars petrofa, near the cells of the maftoid procefs^ be- fore the inferior part of the pafliige for the portio dura oi the auditory nerve ; its tendon pafles ftraight through a fmall round hole in the fame cavern, enters the anterior part of the tympanum, and is Inferted into the pofterior part of the head of the ftapes. Ufe. To draw the ftapes obliquely upwards towards the cavern, by which the pofterior part of its bafe is moved in.- wards, and the anterior part outwards. MujculusJlapedis, Window. Stapidieiis^ Douglas. CHAP. III. Of the Muscles of the Eye-lids. The palpebrae or eye-lids, have one mufcle common to both, and the upper eye-lid one proper to itfelf. I. Orbicularis Palpebrarum. ArifeSy by a number of fleftiy fibres, from the outer edge of the orbitar procefs of the fuperior maxillary bone, and from a tendon near the inner angle of the eye; thefe run a little downwards', then outwards, over the up- per part of the cheek, below the orbit, covering the under eye-lid, and furround the external angle, being loofely conne£Ied only to the Ikin and fat: run over the fupercUiary ridge of the os frontis, towards the inner can- thus, w'here they intermix w'ith thofe of the occipito fron- talis and corrugator fupercilii; then covering the upper eye- lid, they defeend to the inner angle oppofite to the inferior origin of this mufcle, firmly adhering to the internal an- gular\ Part II. J70 O F T H E M U S C L E S. gular procefs of the os frontis, and to the fhort round ten- don which ferves to fix the palpebrse and mufcular fibres a- rifing from it. Inferted^ by the (hort round tendon, into the nafal procefs of the fuperior maxillary bone, covering the anterior and up- per part of the lachrymal fac which tendon can be eafily felt at the inner canthus of the eye. Ufe. To fliut the eye, by drawing both lids clofe together, the fibres contrafting from the outer angle towards the inner, prefs the eye-ball, fqueeze the lachrymal gland, and convey the tears towards the pundla lachrymalia. The dliaris of fome authors is only a part of this muf- clc covering the cartilages of the eye-lids, called cilia or iarfi. There is often a fmall flefhy flip which runs down from the outer and inferior part of this mufcle above the zygomaticus minor, and joins with the levator labii fuperioris alxque nafi. 2. Levator Palpebrje Superioris, Jrifes from the upper part of the foramen opticum of the fphenoid bone, through which the optic nerve paffes, a- bove the levator oculi, near the trochlearis mufcle. Infected^ by a broad thin tendon, into the cartilage that fupports the upper eye-hd, named tarfus. Ufe, To open the eye, by drawing the eye-lid upwards j which it doercompletely, by being fixed to the tarfus, pulling it below the eye-brow, and within the orbit. Jperiem palpebravi redus, Douglas. CHAP.<Ghnp.lV. OF THE EYE-BALL. 57I; \ C II A P. IV. t '■ Muscles of the Eye-Ball. The mufcles which move the globe of the eye arc fix, viz, Fourfraight and two oblique. The four ftraight mufcles very much refemble each other; all Arifing by a narrow beginning, a little tendinous and flelhy, from the bottom of the orbit around the foramen opticum of the fpenoid hone, where the optic nerve enters, fo that they may be taken out adhering to this nerve; and all having ftrong flelhy bellies. Inferted at the fore-part of the globe of the eye into the an^ terior part of the tunica fclerotica, and under the tunica ad- nata, at oppofite Tides, which indicates both their names and Ufe; fo that they fcarcely require any further defcription, but - to name them fingly. I. Levator OcuLr, Arifes from the upper part of the foramen opticum of the fphenoid bone, below the -levator palpebrae fuperioris ; and runs forwards to be Inferted into the fuperior and fore-part of the tunica fclero- tica, by a broad thin tendon. Ufe. To laife up the globe of the eye. Attellens, Albinus. Elevator, Douglas. a. Ds-!i7i: Part II* OF THE MUSCLES 2. Depressor Oculi, Arifes from tne inferior part of the foramen opticum* hiferted oppofite to the former. Ufe. To pull the globe of the eye down. DepnmenSj Albinus. 3. Adductor Oculi, ? ArifeSy as the former, between the obliquus fbperlor and depreflbr, being, from its fituatlon, the fhortefl. Inferted oppofite to the inner angle, IJfe^ To turn the eye towards the nofe^ 4. Abductor Oculi, Arifes from the bony partition between the foramen opti- cum and lacerum, being the longefl from its fituation j and is Inferted into the globe oppofite to the outer canthus, Ufe. To move the globe outwards. The oblique mufcics are two : OBLiquus Superior, Trochlearis,- ArifeSi like the (Iraight mufcles, from the edge of the fora- men opticum at the bottom of the orbit, between the levator and adduffor occuU; from thence runs ftraight along the pars plana of the ethmoid bone to the upper part of the or- bit, where a cartilaginous trochlea Is fixed to the infide of the internal angular procefs of the os frontis, through which its tendon pafles, and runs a little downwards and outwards, In- clofed in a loofe membranous flieath. Infertedy by a broad thin tendon. Into the tunica fclero„ lica, about half way between the infertion of the attollens oculi and optic nerVe. Ufeehap^V. OF THE NOSE. 273 Ufe. To roll the globe of the eye, and turn the pupil downwards and outwards, fo that the upper fide of the globe is turned inwardsj and the inferior part to the outfide of the orbit, and the whole globe drawn forwards towards the inner canthus. ^ Obli^uus tnajoTy Winflowi 2. O B L I Q_u us Inferior, ArifeSy by a narrow beginning, from the outer edge o£ the orbitar procefs of the fuperior maxillary bone, near its jun£lure with the os unguis y and running obliquely out- wards, Is Inferted into the fclerotica, in the fpace between the ab- dudior and Optic nerve, by a broad thin tendon. Ufe.' To draw the globe of the eye forwards, inwards, and downwards; and, contrary to the fuperior, to turn the pupil upwards, towards the inner extremity of the eye- brow ; at the fame time, the external part of the globe is turned towards the inferior fide, arid the iriternal rolls towards the upper part. Obliquus minory Winllow; CHAP. V. / Of the Muscle of the Nose. '' I ^HERE is only one mufclft on each fide that can be cal- -*■ led proper to the nofe, though it is affected by feveral mufcles of the face. . , ' Compressor Naris, Arifesy by a narrow beginning, from the root of^the ala riafi external!yj where part of the levator labii fuperiorls I* M m' al2eq,ue274 OF THE MUSCLES Part II aloeque nafi Is conne£ted to it •, it fpreads into a number of thin feparate fibres, which run up along the cartilage in an oblique manner towards the dorfum of the, nofe, where it joins with its fellow, and is Inferted flightly into the anterior extremity of the os nafi and nafal procefs of the fuperior maxillary bone, where it meets with feme of the fibres defeending from the occipito- frontalis mufcle. Vfe. To cortiprefs the ala towards the feptum nafi, parti- cularly when we want to fmell acutely j but, if the fibres of the frontal mufcle, which adhere to it, aft, the upper part of this thin mufcle affifts to pull the ala outwards. It alfo corrugates the flein of the nofe, and affifts in expreffing cer- tain paffions. Kirtaus, vel nafalis^ Douglas. , CHAP. VI. I Muscles of the Mouth and Lips. The mouth has nine pair of mufcles, which are inferted into the lips, and a common one formed by the termi- nation of thefe, viz. three flicw, three ie/oty, ^vettouinvardsy and the common mufcle furrounds the mouth. \ The three above arc, I. Levator Anguli Oris, Arlfesy thin and fieffiy, from the hollow of the fuperior maxillaryChap. Vr. OF THE MOUTH AND LIPS. 27; maxillary bone, between the root of the focket of the firfl; dens molaris and the foramen infra-orbitarium. Inferted \nto the angle of the mouth and under lip, where it joins with its antagonill. Ufe. To draw the corner of the mouth upwards, and make that part of the cheek oppofite to the chin prominent, as In fmiling. Elevator labientm commtnils, Douglas. Canlnus, WInllow. 2. Lev-itor Labii Superioris AL^quE Nasi, Arifes by two difUnft origins; the firft broad and flefliy, from the external part of the orbitar procefs of the fupe- rior maxillary bone which forms the lower part of the or- bit, immediately above the foramen infra orbitarium; the fecond portion arifes from the nafal procefs of the fuperior maxillary bone, where it joins the os frontls at the inner canthus, defeending along the edge of the groove for the lacrymal fac. The firfl and fhortefh portion is Inferted into the upper lip and obicularis labiorum; the fecond and longed, into the upper lip and outer part of the ala nafi. UJe. To ralfe the upper lip towards the orbit, and a little outwards the fecond portion ferves to draw the fkin of the nofe upwards and outwards, by which the noftril is dilated. Elevator labii fuperizris proprius, Douglas, Jncifivus lateralisy Firft portion ; Pyramidalis^ Second por- tion ; Winflow. \ 3. Depressor Labii Superioris Alxqije Nasi, , Arifes, thin and flefliy, from the os maxillare fuperlus* immediately above the joining of the gums with the two Mm2 dentesOF THE MtJSeLES Part II. dentes inclfivi, and the dens caninus: from thence it runs up under part of the levator labii fuperioris aljcque nafi. Jnferted into the upper lip and root of the ala nafi. life. To draw the upper lip and ala nafi downward^ and backwards. Deprejfor aU najiy Albinus, Inciflvus medinSy Winflow. Deprejfor labii fuperioris propritiSy Douglas. The three below are, I. Depressor Angui^i Oris, ArifeSi broad and flefhy, from the lower edge of the maxiU la inferior, at the fide of the chin, being firmly connedled to that part of the platyfma myoides, which runs over the maxilla to the angle of the mouth, to the depreflbr labii in-: ferioris within, and to the fkin and fat without, gradually turning narrower ; and is Inferted into the angle of the mouth, joining with the zyr gomaticus major and levator anguli oris. To pull down the corner of the mouth. Triangularisy Winflow. Deprejfor Inbisrum communisy Douglas. 2. Depressor Labii Inferioris, ArifeSy broad and flelhy, intermixed with fat, from the inferior part of the lower jaw next the chin; runs obliquely upwards ; and is Injerted into the edge of the under lip, extends along one half of the lip, and is loft in its red part. Ufe. To pull the under lip and the fldn of the fide of the chin downwards, and a little outwards. ^tadraiusy Winflow. Deprejfor labii inferioris propriusy Douglas. 3;s CChap. VI. OF THE MOUTH AND LIPS. 277 ✓ 3. Levator Labh Inferioris, Arifcs, from the lower jaw, at the roots of the alveoli of itwo dentes incifivi and of the canlnus; is Inferted into the under lip and flf’in of the phin. Ufe, To pull the parts into which it is inferted upwards. Levator mentis Albinus. Inaftvus hiferiory Window. « ' ^levator labii inferioris profnuSj Douglas. The three outward are> I. Buccinator, ArifeSy tendinous and flelhy, from the lower jaw, as far back as the lad dens molaris and fore-part of the root of the coronold procefs ; flejhy from the upper jaw, between the laft dens molaris and pterygoid procefs of the fphenoid bone; from the extremity of which it arifeS| tendinous, be- ing continued between both jaws to the conftri6l:or pharyngis Superior, with which it joins ; frpm thence proceeding with ftraight fibres, and adhering clofe to the membrane that lines the mouth, it is Inferted into the angle of the mouth within the orbicularis oris. Ufe. To draw the angle of the mouth backwards and Out- wards, and to contradl its cavity, by prefling the cheek in- w’ards, by which the food is thruft between the teeth. RetraHor anguli oris, Albinus. , 2. Zygomaticus Major, Arifes, flefhy, from the os mal?e, near the zygomatic fu- ture. Inferted into the angle of the mouth, appearing to be loft in the depreffor anguli oris and orbicularis oris.OF THE MUSCLES ■ Part II. life. To draw the corner of the mouth and under lip to- wards the origin of the mufcle, and make the cheek promi- nent, as in laughing. Zy^omaticujj Douglas. 3. Zycomaticus Minor, Arifes from the upper prominent part of the os malte above the origin of the former mufcle ; and, defcending obliquely downwards and forwards. Is Inferted Into the upper lip, near the corner of the mouth, along with the levator anguli oris. Ufe. To draw the corner of the mouth obliquely out- wards, and upwards, towards the external canthus of the eye. The common mufcle is the Orbicularis Oris. This miufcle is, in a great meafure, formed by the muf- cles that move the lips ; the fibres of the fuperior defcend- ing, thofe of the inferior afeending, and, decufFating each, ether about the corner of the mouth, run along the lip to join tlrofe of the oppofite fide, fo that the flefliy fibres appear ’ to furround the mouth like a fphin£ter. Ufe. To fhut the mouth, by contra<fting and drawing both lips together, and to counteract all the mufcles that af- fift In forming it. Sphincier labloritm^ Douglas. ' Semi orbicularisy Winflow. CotjJlriclor oris, Cowper. There is another fmall mufcle defcribed by Alblnus, which he calls Nafalis labii ft/perioris; but it feems to be only fome fibres of the former connected to the' feptum nafi. C H A'^-iChnp. VII. OF THE LOWER JAW. C II A P. VIL ' Muscles o/" ihe Lower Jaw. The lower jaw has four "pair of mufcles for its eleva- tion or lateral motions, viz. two, which are feen on t’the fide of the face, and two concealed by the ar\gle of the ijaw. c. I. Temporalis, Arifes, flelhy, from a femicircular ridge of the lower aand lateral part of the parietal bone, from all the pars ffquamofa of the temporal bone, from the external an- ggular procefs of the os frontls, from the temporal procefs cof the fphenoid bone, and fcom an aponeurofis which ccovers it; from thefe different origins the fibres defeend Hike radii towards the jugum, under which they pafs; sand are Inferted, by a ftrong tendon, into the upper part of the ccoronoid procefs of the lower jaw; in the duplicature of twhich tendon this procefs is inclofed as in a fiieath, being (Continued down all its fore-part to near the laft dens mo- Haris. Ufe. To pull the lower jaw upwards, and prefs it a- fgainft the upper, at the fame time drawing it a little back- twards. N. B. This mufcle is covered by a tendinous membrane, (called its oponeurofsy which arlfes from the bones that give (origin to the upper and femicircular part of the mufcle ; andOF THE MUSCLES Part IL - and defc’ending over it, is infertcd into all the jugunn, and the adjoining part of the os frontis. The ufe of this membrane is to give room for the origin of a greater number of llelhy fibres, to fortify the mufcle in its a£lion, and to ferve as a defence to it. Crotaphlte mujde^ Window. 2. MASSETERy Arifesy by ftrong, tendinous, and flefliy fibres, which' run in different dire£lions, from the fuperior maxillary bone, where it joins the os malse, and from the inferior and anterior part of the 2ygoma, its whole length, as far back as the tubercle tjefore the focket for the condyle of the lower jaw; the external fibres llanting backwards, and! the internal forwards.- Inferted into the angle of the lower jaw,’ and from that up- wards to near the fop of its coronoid procefs. Ufe. To pull the lower to the upper jaw, and by means of its oblique deculTation,' a little forwards and backwards. 3. Pterygoipeus Internus, Artfesy tendinous and flefhy, from the inner and upper part of the internal plate of the pterygoid procefs, filling, all the fpace between the two plates; and from the pterygoid procefs of the os palati between thefe plates. Inferted\x\\.o the angle of the lower jaw internally. Ufe. To draw the jaw upwards, and obliquely towards the oppofitc fide. Pterygoideus majory Win flow.- 4. Pterygoideus Externus, i ArifeSy from the outer fide of the external plate of the pterygoid procefs of the fphenoid bone, from part of the tuberofifyChap. VIII. 28* OF THE NECK. tuberofity of the os maxillare adjoining to it, and from the root of the temporal procefs of the fphenoid bone. Infcrted into a cavity in the neck of the condyloid procefs of the lower jaw ; fome of its fibres are inferted into the liga- ment that connedls the moveable cartilage and that procefs to each other. Ufe. To pull the lower jaw forwards, and to the oppofitc fide ; and to pull the ligament from the joint, that it may not be pinched during thefe motions : when both external pterygoid mufcles a£l:, the fore teeth of the under jaw are pufiied forwards beyond thofe of the upper jawi Pterygoideus inlnofy Winflow; CHAP. VIII; The Muscles uohkh appear about the anterior part of the ( Neck. On the fide of the neck are two mufcles dr layers. 1. Musculus Cdtaneus, VULGO Platysma Myoides, Arifest by a number of flender feparate flefhy fibres, from the cellular fubltance that covers the upper parts of the del- toid and pedtoral mufcles ; in their alfcent, they all unite to form a thin mufcle, which runs obliquely/upwards along the fide of the neck, adhering to the fkin; Inferted into the lower jaw, between Its angle and the origin of the deprefior anguli oris, to which it is firmly VoL< I. N n connedled282 OF THE MUSCLES Partll. CHAP. connected, and but flightly to the {kin that covers the inferior part of the mafleter mufcle and parotid glands. Ufe. To aflift the depreflbr anguli oris in drawing the fldn of the cheek downwards ; and when the mouth is (hut, it draws all that part of the (kin, to which it is conne£fed, be- low the lower jaw, upwards. Platyfma myoides^ Galen. Mufculus cutaneusy Winflow. ^uadratus gena, vel Lattfflmus colli^ Douglas. LatiJJimus colli, Albinus. • a. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus, Arifes, by two dlftindt origins; the anterior, tendinous and a little flefliy, from the top of the fternum near its jundlion with the clavicle ; the pofterior, flefhy, from the upper and anterior part of the clavicle ; both unite a little above the anterior articulation of the clavicle, to form one mufcle, which runs obliquely upwards and outwards, to be Injerted, by a thick ftrong tendon, into the maftoid procefs, which it furrounds; and, gradually turning thinner, is inferted as far back as the lambdoid future. Ufe. To turn the head to one fide, and bend it for- wards. Sterno-majloideus and Chide majloidein, Albinus. Majloideus, Douglas.Chnp. IX. 283 OF THE OS HYOIDES. CHAP. IX. Muscles fuuated between the Lower Jaw and O s H Y O I D E S. * are four layers before, and two mufcles at the fide. — I The four layers are, « 1. Digastricus, jirifesy by a flefliy belly, intermixed with tendinous fibres, from the fofla at the root of the maftold procefs of the tem- poral bone, and foon becomes tendinous ; runs downwards and forwards : the tendon pafles generally through the ftylo- hyoideus mufcle; then it is fixed by a ligament to the os hyoldes : and, having received from that bone an addition of tendinous and mufcular fibres, runs obliquely forwards, turns fiefhy again, and is x Infertedh'j its anterior belly, into a rough finuofity at the inferior and anterior edge of that part of the lower jaw called the chin. Ufe. To open the mouth, by pulling the lower jaw down- wards, and backwards ; and, when the jaws are fliut, to raife the larynx, and confequently the pharynx, upwards, as in deglutition. Biventer ma.-villie inferioris, Albinus. , 2. Mylo-EIyoideus, ArifeSf flefliy, from all the infidc of the lower jaw, be- N n 2 tweeu /aS4 OF THE MUSCLES Part II. tween the lad dens molarls and the middle of the chin, where it joins with its fellow. Inferted into the lower edge of the bafis of the os hyoides, and joins with its fellow. U/e.^ To pull the os hyoides forwards, upwards^ and to a fide. •• \ 3. Genio-Hvoideus, ^riJeSy tendinous, from a rough protuberance in the mid* die of the lower jaw internally, or on infide of the ehin. Inferted into the bafis of the os hyoides. UTe. To draw this bone forwards to the chin, 4. Genio-Hyo-Glossus, ^ Arifesy tendinous, from a rough protuberance in the fide of the middle of the lower jaw ; hts fibres rpn, like a fan, forwards, upwards, and backwards ; and are Inferted into the tip, middle, and root of the tongue, and bafeof the os hyoides, near its cornu. Ufe. According to the dire£l;ion of its fibres, to draw the tip of the tongue backwards into the mouth, the middle down- wards, . and to render its dorfum concave; to draw its rooj: and os hyoides forwards, and to thruft the tongue out of the mouth. ' ‘ The two mufcles at the fide are, I. Hyo-Glossus, ArfeSy broad and flefliy, from the bafe, cornu, and ap- pendix of the os hyoides ; the fibres run upwards and out- wards, to be Inferted into the fide of the tongue, near the ftylo-gloflus. Ufe. To the pull tongue inwards and downw'ards. Bnfio-cerato-chondro-gloffuSy Albinus. Cerato-glojfusy Douglas. i. Lin»aSj Chap. X. OF THE OS HYOIDES; I 2. Lingualis, AnfeSy from the root of the tong«e laterally; runs forwards between the hyo-gloflus and genio-gloflus, to be Inferted into the tip of the tongue, along with part of the ftylo-gloflus. Ufe. To contra»Sl the fubftance of the tongue^ and bring it backwards. C H A P. X. ^ Moscles Jtluated between the'Oi Hyoides (ind Trunj?:. These may be divided into two layers. .The firft layer confifts of two mufcles. I. Sterno-Hyoideus. Arifesy thin and flefhy, from the cartilaginous extremity «f the firft rib, the upper and inner part of the fternum, and from the clavicle where it joins with the fternum Inferted into the bafe of the os hyoides. Ufe. To pull the os Hyoides downwards, 2. Omo-Hyoidefs, ' Ar'ifesy broad, thin, and flelhy, from the fupcrior cofta of the fcapula, near the femilunar nitch, and from the liga- ment that runs acrofs it ; whence afcending obliquely, it be- comes tendinous below the fterno-cleido-maftoid nvufijle ; and growing flefliy again, is Inferted into the bafe of the os hyoides, between Its cornu and the infertlon of the fterno-hyoides.OF THE MUSCLES Part ir. 236 CHAP. Ufe. To pull the os hyoides obliquely downwards. Coraco-hyoideusy Albinus and Douglas. The fecond layer confills of three mufdes. . I. Sterno-thyroideus, ArifeSy flefliy, from the whole edge of the uppermofl: bone of the (lernum internally, oppofite to the cartilage of the firfl rib, from which it receives a fmall part of its ori- gin. i~ Inferted into the furface of the rough line at the external , part of the inferior edge of the thyroid cartilage. Ufe, To draw the larynx downwards. , 2. Thyreo-Hyoideus, Arifes from the rough line, oppofite to the former. Inferted into part of the bafes, and almofl; all the cornu of the os hyoides. Ufe, To pull the os hyoides downwards, or the thyroid cartilage upwards. I^hyro-hyo 'ideus vel Hyo~thyroideus, Win flow. 3. CricO'Thyroideus, Arifes from the fide and fore-part of the cricoid cartilage, running obliquely upwards. Inferted by two portions; the firft, into the lower part of the thyroid cartilage ; the fecond into its inferior cor- nu. Ufe. To pull forwards and deprefs the thyroid, or to ele- vate and draw backwards the cricoid cartilage.Chap. XI. OF THE OS HYOIDES. 287 CHAP. XI. Muscles fituaied let een the Lower Jaw and Os Hyoibes laterally. - # They are five in number. Three proceed from the ftyloid procefs of. the temporal bone, from which they have half of their names; and two from the pterygoid procefs of the fphenoid bone. * The three from the ftyloid procefs are, I. Stylo-Glossus, Artfes, tendinous and flefliy, from the ftyloid procefs, and from a ligament that connedbs that procefs to the angle of the lower jaw. Inferted into the root of the tongue, runs along its fide, and is Infenfibly loft near its tip. Ufe. To draw the tongue laterally and backwards. 2. Sttlo-Hyoiueus, Arlfcshy around tendon, from the middle and Inferior part of the ftyloid procefs. Inferted into the os hyoldes at the jundfion of the bafe and cornu. , Ufe. To pull the os hyoldes to one fide, and a little up- wards. N. B. Its fleftiy belly Is generally perforated by the tendon of the digaftric mufcle, on one or both fides. ThereOF THE muscles Fart Hi tU There is often another accompanying it, called fi^lo-hyotdeui alter j and has the fame origin, infertion, and ufe. 3. STYLO-PHARYNGtus, Anfes^ flefliy, from the root of the ftyloid procefs. into the Hde of the pharynx and back-part of the thyroid cartilage. Ufe» To dilate and raife the pharynx and thyroid cartilage upwards. The two from the pterygoid procefs are# I. CiRCUMFLExus, or Tenscr Palati, Arifes from the fpinous procefs of the fphenoid bone,’ behind the foramen ovale, which tranfmits the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves j from the Euftachian tube, not far from its ofTeous part: it then runs down along the pterygoideus internus, palTes over the hook of the internal plate of the pterygoid procefs by a roUnd tendon, which foon fpreads into a broad membrane. Inferted into the velum pendulum palali, and the femi- lanar edge of the os palati, and extends as far as the fu- ture which joins the two bones. Generally fome of its pof- terior fibres join with the conftri£lor pharyngis fuperior, and palato-pharyngcus. Ufe. To ftretch the velum, to draw it downwards, and s to a fide towards the hook. It has little effc£f upon the tube, being chiefly connefted to its olfeous part. Circtw^exus palati, Albinus. Sphem-falpingo-jlaphylhiusy feu Staphylinus exiernus, Win^ flow. Mujculus tnlx novusy Valfalva; \z\ Palato-falpingeuSy Dou- glas^ 2; LevAtoKChap.xr. OF THE OS HYOIDES. \oL. I. O 0 t\Vo - 2. Levator Palati, ArifeSi tendinous and flefhy, from the extremity of the pars petrofa of the temporal bone, where It Is perforated by the Euftachlan tube, and alfo from the membranous part of the fame tube. Itiferted Into the whole length of the velum pendulum palatl, as far as the root of the uvula, and unites with Its fellow. U/e. To draw the velum upwards and backwards, fo as to fhut the pafl'age from the fauces into the mouth and nufe. Levator palathmollist Alblnus. Petro-falplugOr/laphylinuS) vel SalpingoJiaphyUnus internuSf vulgo, Window. ' . Salpingo-Jiaphylinus, Valfalva. Pterigo-Jlaphylinus extertiuSy vulgo, Douglas. _ Spheno-JJaphylinuSy Cowper. Previous to the defcriptlon of the mufcles fituated about the paflage into the throat, it will be neceflary to mention the principal parts to which they are connefted. Upon looking into any perfoids mouth, when wide , opened, we fee a foft curtain hanging from the palate bones, named velum pendulum palati. In the middle of which •<ve likewife obferve a papilla projedling from the velum, na- med uvuluy or pop of the throat. From each fide of th? u- vula, at its root, two arches, or columns, are fent dywn j the anterior to the root of the tongue, the pofterior to the pharynx. Between thefe arches, on each fide, the cellu- lar glands called amygctaU, or almonds of tl>e ears, are fitua- ted. The common opening behind the anterior arch rpay be named fauces, or top of the throat, from which there are fix paflages, viz. two upwards, being one to each noftril :290 OF THE MUSCLES Part IL two at the Tides, or one to each ear, called the Eujachian tubes : two downwards; the anterior is the paflage through the glottis and larynx, into the trachea, which terminates in the lungs ; the pofterior is the larged, na- med pharynx, or to^ of the oejophagus, which leads to the domach. ■ C H A P. XII. Muscles fituated about the entry to the Fauces. There are two on each fide, and a Tingle one in the middle. The two on each fide are, I. Constrictor Isthmi Faucium, ' ’ Arifs, by a flender beginning, from the fide of the tongue, near its root; from thence running upwards within the anterior arch, before the amygdala ; it is inferted into the middle of the velum pendulum palati, at the root of the uvula anteriorly, being connedted with its fellow, and with the beginning of the palato pharyn- geus. Ufe. Draws the, velum toward the root of the tongue, which it raifes at the Time time, and, with its fellow, con- trafts the paflage between the two arches, by which it fliuts the opening into the fauces. Glojfofaphylinus, Winflow and Douglas. 2. Palato-Pharyng^us. Arifes, by a broad beginning, from the middle of the velumChap. xir. 291 OF THE FAUCES. 1 velum pendulum palati, at the root of the uvula poftcriorly, : and from the tendinous expanfion of the circumflexus palati. ' The fibres are collecfled within the pollerior arch behind the . amygdalae, and run backwards to the top and lateral part of the pharynx, where the fibres are fcattered, and mix with I thofe of the ftylo-pharyngeus» Infertcd into the edge of the upper and back-part of the I thyreoid cartilage ; fome of its fibres being loft between the ; membrane of the pharynx,’ and the two inferior conftric- tors. Ufe. Draws'the uvula and velum downwards and back- wards; and at the fame time pulls the thyroid cartilage and .pharynx upwards, and Ihortens it; with the conftri£lor fupe- rior and tongue, it aflifts in fliutting the paflage into the nof- trils; and, in fwallowing, it thruftsthe food from the fauces into the pharynx. Thyro-JiaphylintiSy Douglas. Thyro-phar^ngo-JlaphylitiuSy Winflow. Salpingo Pharyngeus of Albinus is compofed of a few fibres of this mufcle, which Arife from the anterior and lower part of the cartilaginous extremity of the Euftachian tube ; and are Inferted into the inner part of the laft'mentioned muf- cle. \ Ufe. To afllft the former, and to dilate the mouth of the tube. The one in the middle is tire Azygos U v u l Arifesy flefliy, from the extremity of the future which joins the palate-bones ; runs down the whole length of the 0 0 2 velum /GF THE MUSCLES 2^2 Part II. velum and uvula, refembling a fmall earth-worm, and ad- hering to the tendons of the circumflex!, into the tip of the uvula. Ufe. Raifes the uvula upwards and forwards, and fliort? ens it. ^ Palato-/laphylinus^ Douglas. Siaphylintis, or Epijaphylimis, Winflow. CHAP. XIII. Muscles fttuated on the pojlerior part of the Pharynx. o F thefe there are three pair. I. Constrictor Pharyngis Inferior, Arife: from the fide of the thyroid cartilage, near the attachment of the fterno-hyoideus and thyrea-hyoldeus mufcles; and from the cricoid cartilage, near the crico- thyroideus. This mufcle is the largeft of the three ; and is lufcr^ted into the while line, where it joins wdth its fel- low ; the fuperior fibres running obliquely upwards, co- vering nearly one half of the middle conftriclor, and termi- nating in a point; the inferior fibr.es run more tranfverfely, and Cover the beginning of the cefophagus. Ufe. To comprefs that part of the pharynx which it covers, and to raife it with the larynx a little upwards. ’Ihyro-pharyvgeuSy Crico-pharyngeuS) Douglas. t / 2, CoN=Cliap. XIII. 293 O F THE PH AR YNX. 2. Constrictor Pi-iaryngis Medius, Arlfes from the appendix of the os hyoldes, from the cor- nu of that bone, and from the ligament which conneds it to the thyroid cartilage ; the fibres of the fuperior part running obliquely upwards, and, covering a confiderable part of the fuperior conflridor, terminate in a point. Inferted into the middle of the cuneiform procefs of the os oc.cipitls, before the foramen magnum, and joined to its fel- low at a white line in the middle back-part of the pharynjf. The fibres at the middle part run more tranfverfely than thofe above or below. Ufe. To comprefs that part of the pharynx whjch it covers, and to draw it and t»he os hyoldes upwards. Hp-pharyngeuSf Syndefmo pharyngcus, Douglas. 3. Constrictor Pharyngis Superior, ArifeSi above, from the cuneiform procefs of the os oc- cipitis, before the foramen magnum, near the holes where the ninth pair of nerves pafles out; lower down, from the pterygoid procefs of the fphenoid bone ; from the upper and under jaw, near the roots ojF the laft dentes molares; and be- tween the jaws, it is continued with the buccinator rhufcle ; and with fome fibres from the root of the tongue, and from the palate. Inferted into a white line in the middle of the pharynx, where it joins with its fellow, and is covered by the conftric- tor medius. ' Ufe. To comprefs the upper part of the pharynx, and. draw it forwards and upwards. ' Cephalo pharyngeus, Pterygopharyngeus, Mylo-pharyngeus, Clojfo-pharyngetisf Douglas. ^ CHAP.OF THE MUSCLES Part». CHAP. XIV. Muscles fituated about llo£ Glottis. % They confiH generally of four pair of fmall mufcles, anct a fingle one. I, Crico-aryt^noideus Posticus, * • Arifes.^ flefliy, from the back-part of the cricoid cartilage, and is Inferted into the pofterior part of the bafe of the arytenoid cahilage. life. To open the rima glottidis a little, and, by pulling back-the arytenoid cartilage,, to ftretch the ligament fo as to make it tenfe. 2. Crico-Artt^noideus Lateralis, Ari/es, flefliy, from the cricoid cartilage, laterally, where it is covered by part of the thyroid, and is Inferted into the fide of the bafe of the arytenoid cartilage near the former. life. To open the rima glottidis, by pulling the ligaments from each other. 3. Thyreo-Arytaenoideus, # Arifes from the under and back-part of the middle of the Ihyroid cartilage ; and, running backwards and a little up- wards, along the fide of the glottis, is Inferted into the arytenoid cartilage, higher up and farther forwards than the crico-aryta:noideus lateralis, Ufe. V,Chap. XIV. OF THE GLOTTIS. 295 life. To pull the arytenoid cartilage forwards nearer to the middle of the thyroid, and confequently to fliorten and relax the ligament of the larynx or glottis vera. 4. Aryt^noideus Obliquus, Anfes from the bafc of one arytenoid cartilage ; and, crof- fing its fellow, is Inferted near the tip of the other arytenoid cartilage. life. When both a£l, they pull the arytenoid cartilag"€S towards each other. N. B. One of thefe is very often wanting. Arytanoideus mitior^ Douglas. The fingle mufcle is the Aryt.’enoideus TraksversUs. , Arifes from the fide of one arytenoid cartilage, from near Its articulation with the cricoid to near its tip. The fibres run ftralght acrofs, and are Inferted, in the fame manner, into the other arytenoid cartilage. life. To fliut the rima glottldls, by bringing thefe two cartilages, with the ligaments, nearer one another. Arytaneideuj major, Douglas. I Befides thefe, there are a few feparate mufcular fibres on each fide ; which, from their general dire£tion, arc named, , I. Tiiyreo-Epiglottideue. Arifes, by a few pale feparated fibres, from the thyroid cartilage ; and is Inferted into the epiglottis laterally. life. To draw th© epiglottis obliquely downwards, or, when296 Part IL OF THE MUSCLES when both aO;, direftly downwards ; and, at the fame time, it expands that foft cartilage. 2. Arytjeno-Epiglottideus, > Arifes^ by a number of fmall fibres, from the lateral and tipper part of the arytenoid cartilage; and, running along the outer fide of the external rima, is ^ hiferted into the epiglottis along with the former. Ufe. To pull that fide of the epiglottis towards the ex- ternal rima j or, when both act, to pull it clofe upon the glottis. It is counteradfed by the elallicity of the epiglottis. . CHAP. XV. Muscles fUuaied on the anterior part of the Abdomen. They confill of three broad layers on each fide of the' belly ; always a long one, and generally alfo a flrort one, on each fide of the linea alba. The three layers are, I. Obliquus DescendenS ExteRnus, JriftSy by eight heads, from the lower edges of an equal number of. inferior ribs, at a little diftance from their car- tilages : it always Intermixes, in a ferrated manner, with portions of tlie ferratus major anticus; and generally co- lieres to the pcftoralis major, intercoftals, and latilTimus dorfi : which lafl covers the edge of a portion of it e.xtend-Chap. XV OF THE ABDOMEN. 297 ed from the laft rib to the fpine of the os ilium. From thefe origins the fibres run down obliquely forwards, and terminate in a thin broad tendon, whofe fibres are continued in the fame diredfion. Inferted into the whole length of the llnea alba * ; be- comes thicker towards the lower part of the abdomen, and is perforated in the middle by the umbilicus f. On the outfide of the re£lus mufcle, the tendon of the external ob- lique appears whiter than elfewhere, by Its being there- connected with the tendons of the internal oblique and tranfverfe mufclcs j fo that this part has been called linea fcmihmarisy from its curved fliape. The under part of the tendon divides into two columns, which leaves an oval fpace between them, named the ring | of the external ob- lique mufcle, for the pafiage of the fpermatic cord in the male, or round ligament of the womb; The anterior fuperior column paffcs over the cartilage between the ofla pubis, and is fixed to the oppofite os pubis j the other Is fixed to the os pubis of the fame fide. It is alfo inferted, tendinous and flefliy, into the middle of the fpine of the ilium. VoL. I. P p From * The liiiea alia IS, formed by the tendinous fibres of the two •blique and- tranfverfe mufcles, interlaced with thofe of the oppofite fide, the whole way from the cartilage enfiformjs to the os pubis; fo that fome anatomifts think they fiiould be called three digaftric mufcles, with a broad middle ten- don and two fiefiiy bellies. f The umiilicus was originally the paflage for the vefiels that cenncfled the foetus to the fecundines; and is really a hole through tlie teguments and tendons, filled up only by a tellular fubftance, and covered within by the peritoneum, ^ The ring of the external oblique mufcle is made fomewhat circular, by a thin tendinous or rough cellular fubfiance, whkh helps to fill it up; and though a few mufcular fibres of the internal are feparated, yet the IVridture in hernix only happens in the tendon of the external. IOF THE MUSCLES Part ir. 298 From that part, which is named its atitenor fuperior fpi- nous procefs^ it is ftretched tendinous to the os pubis, and is named Pouparfs or Fallopius^ ligament *. From this ligament it fends a tendinous layer, which is loll in the mem- branous fafcia of the thigh. ' Ufe. Supports and comprefles the peritonasum and ab» domen ; alhlls the evacuations of faeces and urine, and like- wife in the exclufion of the foetus ; thrufts the diaphragm upwards, and draws down the ribs In expiration •, bends the body obliquely when the ribs are fixed, and raifes the pelvis obliquely. Obliquus efcieruus abdominis, Albinus. Obliquus defeendens, Douglas. 2. OBLr<2.uus Ascendens Internus, Arifes from the fpine of the ilium, the whole length be- tween the pollerior and fuperior anterior fpinous procefs ; from the os facrum and the three undermoft lumbar ver- tebrae, by a tendon common to it and to the ferratus polli- cus inferior mufclc; from Poupart’s ligament, at the mid- dle of which it fends off the beginning of the cremaller rnufcle ; and the fpermatic cord in the male, or round li- gament of the womb in the female^ palTes under its thin edge, except a few detached fibres. Inferied into the cartilago enfiformis, into the cartilages of the feventh, and thofe of all the falfe ribs; but, at the upper part, it is extremely thin, refembllng a cellular mem- brane, • Poupart's ot Fallopius's ligament is the inferior part of the tendon of the externus obliquus, extending from tire anterior fuperior fpinous procefs of the ilium to the os pubis, where it is thiokeft in order to ftrengthen the inferior part of the abdomen : here it is not inferted into any bone, but pafles over the blood vefTcIs of the inferior extremity ; and in women, from the greater fize of the pelvis, it is longer and loofer, by which they are more fubjeft to crural hernicE ; but, by the fi*e of the fpermatic cord, men are more liable to the inguinal.OF'THE ABDOMEN. Chap. XV. branc, and only becomes flefliy at the cartilage of the tenth rib. Here^ its tendon divides into two layers*; the ante- rior layer, with a great portion of the inferior part of the pofterior layer, joins the tendon of the external oblique, and runs over the re£lus to be inferted into the whole length of the linea alba. The pofterior layer joins the ten- don of the tranfverfalis mufcle as low as half-way between the umbilicus and os pubis; but, below this place, only a few fibres of the pofterior layer are feen, and the reft of it paffes before the redbus mufcle, and is inferted into the li- nea alba ; fo that the whole tendon of the external oblique inuicle, wdth the anterior layer of the internal oblique, paftes before the redlus mufcle; and the whole pofterior layer of the Internal oblique, together with the whole ten- don of the tranfverfalis mufcle, excepting at the inferior part,’pafs behind the redfus, and are inferted into the linea alba. At its undermoft part it is inferted into the fore- part of the os pubis. U/e. To affift the former; but it bends the trunk in the reverfe diredllon. Obllquus internus abdominis, Albinus and Wlnflow. Obliquus ajcmdeus, Douglas. 3. Transversalis, Arifes tendinous, but foon becoming flefhy, from the inner or back part of the cartilages of the feven lower ribs, P p 2 where / • To obtain a proper view of the tvVb layers of the tendon of the inter- nal oblique mufcles, both the oblique mufcles Ihould be raifed as far' for- wards as their joiqing near the linea femilunaris; then the tendon before the reflus muft be cut parallel to tlie linea alba, and turned outwards as far as the outer edge of the re^flus ; by which the whole of the reflus is brought into view, and the tendons are preferved. But Douglas direfls to cut the pofterior layer of the internal oblique, where it joins with the tranfvarfa- lis : by this method the reflus is laid bare ; but the ftruflure of the tendir Slops (heath, which iriclofes it, is deftroyed.300 Part II. OF THE MUSCLES where feme of its fibres are continued with thofe of the diaphragm and the intercoftal mufcles; by a ^^road thin tendon, connefted ,to the tranfverfe procefles of the laft vertebra of the back and the four fuperior vertebra of the loins t flefhy, from the whole fpine of the os ilium inter- nally, and from the tendon of the external oblique mufcle, where it intermixes with fome fibres of the internal ob- lique. Inferted into the cartilago enfiformis, and into the whole length of the linea alba, excepting its lowermoll part. Ufe. To fupport and comprefs the abdominal bowels; and it is fo particularly well adaped for the latter purpofe, that it might be called the proper conJlriElor of the abdomen. ^ranjverfiis abdominis, Albinus. The long mufcle in the middle is named. Rectus Abdominis. Arifes, by two heads, from the ligament of the cartilage which joins the two ofla pubis to each other; runs up- wards the whole length of, and parallel to, the linea alba, growing broader and chinner as it afeends. Inferted into the cartilages of the three inferior true ribs, and often intermixed with fome fibres of the pe£loral muf- cle. It is generally divided by three tendinous interfedlions; the firft is at the umbilicus, the fecond where it runs over the cartilage of the feventh rib, and the third in the middle between thefe; and there is commonly a half In- terfe£lion below the umbilicus: Thefe interfe<rkions feldom penetrate through the whole thicknefs of the mufcle; they adhere firmly to the anterior part of the (heath, but very (lightly to the pofterior layer. Ufe. To comprefs the fore-part, but more particularly theV Chap.XVI. OF THE GENITALS. 301 the lower part of the belly *, to bend the trunk forwards, or to raife the pelvis. By its tendinous*interfedlions, it is enabled ta contraft at any of the intermediate fpaces; and, by Its connexion with the tendons of the other mufcles, it is prevented from changing place, and from rifing into a prominent form when in a61:ion. The fliort mufcle 'in the middle* is named Pv RAMIDALrS. j^rifes along with the redus 5 and, running upwards within the fame llieath, Is ' Inferted, by an acijte termination, near half-way between the os pubis and umbilicus, into the linea alba and inner edge of the re£lus mufcle. As it is frequently wanting in both fides, without any inconveniency, its Ufe feems to be, to affift the inferior part of the re^lus. C H A P. XVI. Muscles about the Male Organs of Generation. ^ I 'HE tef teles are fald to have a thin mufcle cornmo;| to both, and one proper to each. The fuppofed common mufcle is called the D A R T O S, This appears to bei. no more than a condenfatlon of the cellular membrane lining the ferotum; yet the fkln here isPart II. 302 OF THE MUSCLES is capable of being corrugated and relaxed in a greater de- gree than in other places. The mufcle proper to each tefticlc is the I .Cremaster, Arifes from the Internal oblique, where a few fibres of that mufcle intermix with the tranfverfalis, near the junc- tion of the os ilium and pubis, over which part it pafles, after having pierced the ring of the extern us obliquus ; and then it defcends upon the fpermatic cord. , Inferted into the tunica vaginalis of the tefticle, upon which it fpreads, and is infenfibly loft. Ufe. To fufpend arid draw up the tefticle, and to com- prefs it in the a£l of coition. The penis has three pair of mufcles, 1. Erector Penis, Artfes, tendinous and fleftiy, from the tuberofity of the os ifchium, and runs upwards, embracing the whole crus of the penis. Inferted into the ftrong tendinous membrane that covers the corpora cavernofa penis, near as far up as the union of thefe bodies. Ufe. To comprefs the crura penis, by which the blood is pufhed from it into the fore-part of the corpora cavernofa; and the penis is by that means more completely dlftended. The ere£tores feem likewife to keep the penis in its proper diredfion. Ijcb'io-cavernfus, Winflow. 2. Accelerator Urin.I2, feu Ejaculator Seminis, Arifes^ fleftiy, from the fphindter ani and membranous part of the virethra; and tendinous froin the crus, nearly as farChap. XVI. O F TIIE G E NIT A L S. 303 far forwards as the beginning of the corpus cavernofuni penis; the inferior fibres run more tranfverfdy, and the fuperior defcend In an oblique dire£Hon. Jnferted Into a line in the middle of the bulb, where it joins with its fellow, by which the bulb is completely in- clofed. Vfe. To drive the urine or femen forwards; and, by grafping the bulb of the urethra, to pufli the blood to- wards its corpus cavernofum and the glans, by which they are diftended. Bulbo-cavermfus, Wiiiflow. 3. Transversus P e r I n e I, Arifes from the tough fatty membrane tliat covers the tuberofity of the os ifchium; from thence it runs tranf- verfdy inwards, and is Inferted into the accelerator urinx, and into that part of the fphindter ani which covers the bulb. JJfe. To dilate the bulb, and draw the perineum and verge of the anus a little outwards and backwards. Tratifverfalis urethra Tranjverjus periue'ty Albinus. I,evator parvusy feu externus, Douglas. There is often a fourth mufcle, named Transversus Perinei Alter. Arifes behind the former, runs more obliquely forwards, and is Inferted into that part, of the accelerator urinae which covers the anterior part of the bulb of the urethra, life. To aflift the former. Inferiorprojlate, Winflow. , Tranfverfusperinei altery Alblnus. CHAP.OF TPIE MUSCLES Part II. \ I CHAP. XVII. Muscles oJ^tlje A n u HE atius has a Cngle mufcle, and one pair; The fingle mufde ia Sphincter A n i. Arifes from the fkin and fat that furround the verge of the anus on both Tides, near as far out as the tuber of the bs ifchium ; the fibres are gradually colle6ted into an oval form, and furround the extremity of the re£lum. Inferted^ before, by a narrow point, into the perineum,' acceleratores urince, and tranfverfi perinei; behind, by an acute termination, into the extremity of the os coc- cygls. Ufe. Shuts the paflage through the anus Into the redum i pulls down the bulb of the urethra, by which it affifts in eje£ling the urine and femen. SphinBer externusy Albinus and Douglas. SpBinBer cutancUSy Winflow. N. B. The fphinfter internus of Albinus and Douglas Is only that part of the circular fibres of the mufcular coat of the rcclum, which furrounds its extremity; Levator Ani. Arifes from the os pubis within the pelvis, as far up as the upper edge of the foramen thyroideum, and joining of '' theI Chap. XVIII. OF THE GENITALS. 305^ • the os pubis with the os ifchium from the thin tendinous membrane that covers the^ obturator internus and coccy- geus mufcles ; from the fpinous procefs of- the os ifchium ; pnd its fibres run down like rays from a circumference to a centre. Infertcd\x\to the fphln£ler ani, acceleratores urinae, and an- terior part of the two lafl: bones of the coccygis ; furrounds the extremity of the re£lum, neck of the bladder, proilate gland, and part of the veficulte feminales; fo that its fibres behind and below the os coccygis joining it with its fellow, they together very much refemble the fhape of a funnel. IJfe. To draw the reftum upwards after the evacuation of the faeces, and to afl'ifl; in flmtting it; to fuftain the con- tents of the pelvis, and to help in eje£Hng the femen, urine, and contents of the return ; and, perhaps, by prelfing up- on the veins, to contribute greatly to the ereftion of the penisw C H A P. XVIII. Muscles of the Fetnale Organs of Generation. KE clitoris has one pair. Erector Clitoridis, vdrifes from the crus of the os ifchium internally, and in its afeent covers the crus of the clitoris as far up as the os pubis. VoL. I. Q,.*! Inf cried i3o6. of the muscles Partll. Inferted into the upper part of the crus and body of the clitoris. Ufe. Draws the clitoris downwards and backwards; and may ferve to make the body of the clitoris more tenfe, by fqueezing the blood into it from its crus. Firji mujcle of the clitoris, Douglas. ' Tlie vagina has one pair, ' Sphincter Vagin te. Arifes from the fphinfter ani, and from the pofterior fide of the vagina, near the perineum : from thence it runs up the fide of the vagina, near its external orifice, oppo- fite to the nymphse, and covers the corpus cavernofum vaginx. Inferted into the crus and body, or union of the crura clitoridis. Uje. Contradls the moutli of the vagina, and comprelfes its .corpus cavernofum. CoTifriHor cunni, Albinus. Second tnufcle of the clitoris, Douglas. \ The perineum has one pair, Tuans VERSUS Ferine i. Arifes, as in the male, from the fatty cellular membrane which covers the tuberofity of the os ifchlum. Inferted into the upper part of the fphinfter ani, and into a white hardifh tough fubftance in the perineum, between the lower part of the pudendum'and anus. Ufe. To fuflain and keep ilie perineum in its proper place. The anus, as in die mule, has a fingle mufcle, and one pciir* SphincterChap. XIX. 3®7 OF THE PELVIS. Sphincter Ani, Arlfes, as in the male, from the Ikin and fat furrohnding the extremity of the re£lum. Inferted, above, into the white tough fubflance of the pe- rineum ; and below, into the point of the os coccygis. Ufe. To fhut the paflage into the reftum ; and, by pull- ing down the perineum, to alTift in contrading the mouth of the vagina. v Levator Ani, Arifes, as in the male, within the pelvis, and defcends a- ‘ long the inferior part of the vagina and redtum. Inferted into the perineum, fphindler ani, extremity of the vagina, and redlum. Ufe. To raife the extremity of the redlum upwards, to contradl the inferior part of the redlum, and to alfift in con- tradling and fupporting the vagina ; and, perhaps, by preffing on the veins, to contribute to the diftention of the cells of the clitoris and corpus cavernofum of the vagina. , - CHAP. XIX. Muscles fituated ivithin the Pelvis. C3f thefe there are two pair. I. Obturator Internus, Arifes from more than one half of the internal circum- ference of the foramen thyroideum, formed by the os pubis and ifchium : its infide is covered by a portion of the leva- Q^q 2 tor3o8 Part II OF THE MUSCLES or ani; and appears to be divided into a number of fafcl- culi, wl\ich unite and form a roundifli tendon, that palTes out of the pelvis, between the pofterior facro ifchiatic li- gament and tuberofity of the os ifchium ; where it pafles over the capfular ligament of the thigh-bone, it is inclofed as in a flieath, by thegtmini mufcles. Itij'ertehy by a round tendon, into the large pit at the root of the trochanter major. Ufe. To roll the os femoris obliquely outwards. Marfupialis, fcu Obturator mternus, Douglas. \ N. B. The infcrtion of this mufcle fimuld not be profe- cuted, until the mufcles of the thigh, to which it belongs, are diflecled. Vid, Chap, xxix. '2. C o c c Y G E u s, ArifeSy tendinous and flelhy, from the fpinous procefs of the os ifchium, and covers the infide of the pofterior facro- ifchiatic ligament; from this narrow beginning, it gradually increafes, to form a thin fleOiy bell^, interfperfed with ten- dinous fibres. Inferted into the extremity of the os facrum, and near the whole length of the os coccygis laterally. Ufe- To fupport and move the os coccygis forwards, and to tie it more firmly to the facrum. ■ -• CHAP. XX. Musclesftluated within the Cavity'of the Abdomen. THESE confift of a fingle mufcle, and four pair. \ Diaphragms. This broad thin mufcle, which makes a complete feptura between the thorax and abdomen, is concave below and conve309 CSiap. XX. OF THE ABDOMEN. convex above ; the middle of it on each fide reaching as high within the thorax of the flccleton as the fourth rib ; it is com- monly divided into two portions. I. The fuperior or Greater Mufcle of the Diaphragm, Anfes^ by difliniTt flelhy fibres, from the cartilago enfi- formis, from the cartilages of the feventh, and of all the inferior ribs on both lides. The fibres from the cartilago enliformis, and from the feventh and eighth ribs, run ob- liquely upwards and backwards ; from the ninth and .tenth, tranfverfely inwards and upwards; and from the eleventh andT twelfth, obliquely upwards. From thefe different origins the fibres run, like radii from the circumference to the centre of a circle ; and are lufertedxnto a cordiform tendon, of a confiderable breadth, which is fituated in the middle of‘the diaphragm, and^in which, therefore, the fibres from oppofite fides are interlaced. Towards the right fide the tendon is perforated, by a tri- angular hole, for the paflage ot the vena cava iiiferior ; and to the upper convex part of it the pericardium and mediafti- num are conneifled. 2. The inferior, Leffer mufcle, or Appendix of the D I A H R A G M, Arifest from the fecond, third, and fourth lumbar verte- brae, by eight heads ; of which two in the middle, com- monly called its crura, are the longeft, and begin tendinous. Between the crura, the aorta and thoracic duct pafs ; and, on the outfide of thefe, the 'great fympathetic nerves and branches of the vena azygos perforate the fliortcr heads, riie mufcular fibres run obliquely upwards and forwards, and form in the middle two.flcfliy columns, which dccuffate and leave an oval fpace between them for the paffage of the oefo- phagus and eighth pair of nerves. Infertcd,310 OF THE MUSCLES Part II. Injerted^ by ftrong flelhy fibres, into the poftcrior part of the middle tendon. Ufe. The diaphragm is the principal agent in refpira- tion, particularly in infpiration : for when it is in action, the fibres, from their different attachments, endeavour to bring themfelves into a plane towards the middle tendon, by which the cavity of the thorax is enlarged, particularly at the fides, wliere the lungs are chiefly fituated and as the lungs muft always be contiguous to the infide of the thorax and upper fide of the diaphragm, the air ruflies in- to them, in ortler to fill up the increafed fpace. This rauf- cle is affilled by the two rows of intercoftals, which elevate the ribs, and the cavity of the thorax is more enlarged. In time of violent exercife, or whatever caufe drives the blood v^lth unufnal celerity towards the lungs, the pectoral muf- cles, the ferrati antici majores, the ferrati poftici fuperjo- res, and fcaleni mufcles, are brought into atflion. And in laborious infpiration, the mufcles which arife from the up- per part of the thorax, when the parts into which they are inferted, are fixed, lilcewife alfift. In exfpiration, the dia- phragm is relaxed and puflied up by the preffure of the abdominal mufcles upon the vifeera of the abdomen ; and at the fame time that they nrefs it upwards, they alfo, to- gether with the fterno-collales and ferrati pofiici inferiories, pull down the ribs, and are afftlted in a powerful manner by the elafticity of the cartilages that join the ribs to the fternum ; by which the cavity of the thorax is diminiflied, and the air fuddenly pulhed out of the lungs : and, in laborious exfpiration, the qaadrati lumborum, facro-lum- bales, and longiffimi' dorfi, concur in pulling down the ribs. The four pair are, f I. QjJ A-3” OF THE ABDOMEN. Chap. XX. I I. Qv adratus Lumborum, Arlfesy fomewhat broad, tendinous and flefliy, from the pofterior part of the fpine of the os ilium. Infertcd into the tranfverfe procefles of all the vertebrae of the loins, into the lail rib near the fpine, and by a fmall ten- don into the fide of the laft vertebra of the back. Ufe. To move the loins to one fide, pull down the laft rib, and, when both a£l, to bend the loins forwards, ^/adratus, feu Lumbarts extermiSy Winflow. 2. Psoas Parvus, AnfeSy flelhy, from the fides of the two upper vertebrae of the loins, and fends off a fmall long tendon, which ends thin and flat, and if In/eried into the brim of the pelvis, at the junction of the os ilium and pubis. Ufe. To affift the pfoas magnus in, bending the loins for- wards ; and, in certain pofitions, to affift in raifing the pel- vis. iV. B. This mufcle is very often wanting. ' 3. Psoas- Magnus, AnfeSy flefhy, from the fide of the body, and tranfverfe procefs of the laft vertebra of the back; and, in the fame manner, from all thofe of the loins, by as many diftin£k flips. Injertedy tendinous, into the trochanter minor of the os femoris ; and flefliy into that bone, a little below the fame trochanter. Ufe. To bend the thigh forwards ; or, when the inferior extremity is fixed, to affift in bending the body, Pfeas, feu Lumharis internusy Winflow. . I L I a C U SPart II. OF THE MUSCLES 312 4. Iliacus Internus, * ^rifes, fleftiy, from the tranfverfe procefs of the lafi; vertebra of the loins, from all the inner lip of the fpine of the os ilium, from the edge of that bone between its ante- rior fuperior fpinous procefs and the acetabulum, and from moll of the hollow p-art of the ilium. It joins with the pfoas magnus, where it begins to become tendinous i and is hiferted along with it. Ufe. To alTifl; the pfoas in bending the thigh, and to bring it dire£ily forwards. N. B. The infertion of the two laft mufcles (hould not be profecuted till the mufcles of the thigh are differed. CHAP. XXL \ Muscles fttuated on the Anterior Part of the Thorax. These may be divided Into two layers. The hrfl layer confifts of one mufcle, named Pectoralis Major, Arifes^ from the cartilaginous.extremities of the fifth and fixth ribs, where it always Intermixes with the external oblique mufcle of the abdomen; from almoft the whole length of the fternum, and from near half of the anterior part of the clavicle: the fibres run towards the axilla in a t folding manner. Inferted, by two broad tendons, which crofs each otherI Ghap. XXI. OF THE THORAX. 3x3 at the upper and inner part of the os humeri, above the infertion ” of the deltoid mufcle, and outer fide of the grcov.e for lodging the tendon of the long head of the bi- ceps. ( U/e. To move the arm forwards, and obliquely upwards, towards the llernum. Pecloralis, Albinusi The fecond layer confifts of three mufcles : I. SuBCLAVIUS, u^ri/es tendinous from the cartilage that joins the firH rib,, to the fternum. I/iferted, after becoming flefliy, into the inferior part of the clavicle, which it occupies from within an inch or fo of the llerhum, as far outwards as to its connedlion, by liga- rnent, yt^ith the coracoid procefs of the fcapula. Ufe, To pull the clavicle downwards and forwards. I 2. Pectora.lis Minor, Arifes, tendinous and flefliy, from the upper edge of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, near where they join with their cartilages. Inferied, tendinous, into the coracoid procefs of the fca- pula ; but foon grows flefliy and broad. Ufe. To bring the fcapula forwards and downwards, or to raife the ribs upwards. Serratus anticus, Albinus. ' Serratus minor anthusy Douglas. 3. Serratus Magnus, Arifes from the nine fuperlor ribs, by an equal number of flefliy digllations, refembling the teeth of a faw. Infertedy flefliy, into the whole bafe of the fcapula in- ternally, between the infertion of the rhomboid and the VoL. I. R r origin314 . OF THE MUSCLES Part II. origin of the fubfcapularis mufcles, being folded about the two angles of the fcapula. To move the fcapula forwards j and, when the fcji- pula is forcibly raifed, to draw upwards the ribs. Serratus major anticusy Douglas. CHAP. XXII. Muscles fituated between the Ribsjand ivith'm the Thorax. T^ETWEEN the ribs, on each fide, tliere are eleven ^ -double rows of mufcles, which are therefore named intercoflals. Thel^ decuflate each other like the ftrokes of the letter X. 1.Intercostales Extern i, Ar'ife from the inferior acute edge of each fuperior rib, and run obliquely forwards, the whole length from the fpine to near the joining of the ribs with their cartilages *, from which, to the flernum, there is only a thin membrane cover- ing the internal intercoftals. Inferted into the upper obtufe edge of each inferior rib, as far back as the fpine, into which the pofterlor portion is fixed. 2. Intercgstales Intern I, Arije in the fame manner as the external: but they be- gin at the flernum, and run obliquely backwards, as far as the angle of the rib ; and from that to the fpine they arc wanting. Inferted in the fame manner as the external. Vft.Chap. XXII. 3'5 OF THE THORAX. life By means of thefe mufclcs, the ribs are equally rai- fed upwards during infpiration. Their fibres being oblique, : give them a greater power of bringing the ribs near each I other, than could be performed by llraight ones. But, by the obliquity of the fibres, they are almoll brought conti- ! guous: and as the fixed points of the ribs are before and I behind, if the external had been continued forwards to the Ifternum, and the internal backwards to the fpine. It would lhave hindered their motion, which is greateft in the middle, I though the obliquity of the ribs renders it lefs perceptible ; ;and, inftead of raifing the fibres fixed to the flernum and I fpine, would have deprtlTed the ribs. ' N. B. The portions of the external intercoflals which arlfe I from the tranfverfe procefTes of the vertebrae where the ribs tare fixed to them, and other portions that pals over one rib .and terminate in the next below it, Albinus calls Levatores ccojhrum longtores et breviores. The portions of the internal that pafs over one rib, and are iinferted into the next below it, are by Douglas called, Cojla^ t rum depreJJ'ores proprii Coivperit. Thefe portions of both rows affifl; in raifing the ribs in the {fame manner as the reft of the intercoftais. Supra coJJaleSy and Infra cojiales, Winflow. The mufcles within the> thorax are one pair, viz. Triangularis, or Sternocostalis, Arifes^ flcfhy, and a little tendinous, from all the length of tthe cartilago enfiformis laterally, and from the edge of the I'lower half of the middle bone of the fternum, from whence jits fibres afeend obliquely upwards and outwards. Inferted, generally by three triangular terminations, into tthe lower edge of the cartilages of the third,, fourth, and ffifth ribs, near where thefe join with the ribs. r 2 ' lTf(,•OF THE MUSCLES Part II. 3i5 Uje. To deprefs thefe 'cartilages, and the extremities, of the ribs ; and confequently to affiR in contraaing the ^cavity of the thorax, ' This mufcle often varies ; and is fometimes inferted into the cartilage of the fecond rib, fometimes into the cartilage of the fixth rib. ,4.. CHAP. XXIII. Muscles Jduatedon the Anterior Part of the'^ECn clofe to the VERTKBKiE. These confift of one layer formed by four mufcles. I. Longus Colli, Arifesy tendinous and flefhy, from the bodies of the three vertebrae of the back laterally; and from the tranfverfe procefs of the third, fourth, fifth, and fixth vertebrae of the neck, near their roots. Inferted into the fore-part of the bodies of all the verte- brx of the neck, by as many fmall tendons, which are co- vered with flefh. Ufe. To bend the neck gradually forwards, and to one fide. 2. PiECTUs Capitis Internus Major, Arifesy from the anterior points of the tranfverfe procefles of the third, fourth, fifth, and fixth vertebrae of the neck^ by four dlRimft beginnings. Inferted into the cuneiform procefs of the os occipitis, a little before the condyloid procefs.I Chap. XXIII. OF THE N ECX. Ufe. To bend the head forwards. Jieclus' anterior longus, Window. VI 3. Rectus Capitis Internus Minor, Arifesy flefliy, from the fore-part of the body of the firft vertebra of the neck, oppofite to the fuperlor oblique pro- cefs. Inferted near the root of the condyloid procefs of the os occipitis, under, and a little farther outwards than the for- mer mufcle. Ufe. To bend the head forwards, Re^us anterior brevisy Window. Arifesy delhy, from the anterior part of the point of the tranfverfe procefs of the firft vertebra of the neck. ' Inferted into the os occipitis, oppodte to the foramen ftylo- Tnaftoideum of the temporal bone. Ufe. To bend the head a little to one fide. Tranfverfalis anticus primusy Windovv. HESE may be divided into four layers, and a Gngfe The firfl; layer confifts of two mufcles, which cover al- mofl; the whole pofterlor part of the trunk. 4. Rectus Capitis Lateralis, . / CHAP. XXIV. Muscles fituated on the Pojlerior Part of the Trunk. pair. / X. Tra>OF THE MUSCLES 31S Part II. I. Trapezius feu Cucularis, Arifest by a ftrong round tendon, from the lower part of the protuberance in the middle of the os occipitis be- hind ; and, by a thin membranous tendon, which covers part of the fplenius and complexus mufcles, from the rough curved line that extends from the. protuberance to- wards the mafloid procefs of the temporal bone •, runs down along the nape of the neck ; where it feems to arife from j » its fellow, and covers the fpinous proctlTes of the fuperior vertebrae of the neck; but rifes from the fpinous procefles of the two inferior, and from the fpinous procefles of all the vertebrae of the back ; adhering, tendinous, to its fellow, the whole length of its origin. Inferted, flelhy, into the pofterior half of the clavicle ; ten- dinous and flefhy, into the acromion, and into almoft all the fpine of the fcapula. I Ufe. Moves the fcapula according to the three different di- rections of its fibres ; for the upper defeending fibres draw it obliquely upwards, the middle tranfverfe ftralght fibres draw it directly backwards, and the Inferior afeending fibres draw it obliquely downw’ards and backwards. N. B. Where it is infeparably united to its fellow in the nape of the neck, it is named Ligamentum Nucha or Co//i. ■ ( ^ ' 2. Latissimus'Dorsi, Anfest by a broad thin tendon, from the pofterior part of the fpine of the os ilium, from all the fpinous proceffies of the os facrum and vertebrae of the loins, and from the feven inferior ones ot the vertebree of the back •, alfo, ten- dinous and flefhy, from the extremities of the three or four inferior ribs, a. little beyond their cartilages, by a^ many dlftinft flips. The inferior fibres afeend obliquely, and the fuperior run tranfvcrfely, over the inferior angle ofChap. XXIV. OF TtlE TRUNK. 319 of the fcapula, towards the axilla, where they are all collec- ted, twilled, and folded. Infit'ted, by a llrong thin tendon, into the inner edge of the groove for lodging the Rendon of the long head of the biceps. Ufe, To pull the arm backwards and downwards, and to roll the os humeri. N. B. The infertioh of this mufcle fliould not be profe- cuted till the mufcles of the os humeri, to which it belongs, are difle£led. The fecond layer confifts of three pair, two on the back, and one on the neck. On the back. I. Serratus Posticus Iis’ferior, . Jrlfes, by a broad thin tendon, in common with that of the latillimus dorfi, from the fpinal procefles of the two in» fcrior vcrtebrre of the back, and from the three fuperior ver- tebrse of the loins. Inferted into the lower edges of the four inferior ribs, at a a little diftance from their cartilages, by as many dillindt flefliy lips. Ufe. To deprefs the ribs into which it is inferted. 2. Rhomdoideus. This mufcle is divided into two portions. I. Rhomboideus major, arifcs, tendinous, from the fpindua procefles of the five fuperior vertcbrce of the back. Inferted into all the bafis of the fcapula below its fpine. Ufe. To draw the fcapula obliquely upwards, anddiredly inwards. 2. Rhomboldetis minor, arifes, tendinous, from the fpi- nous-320 OF THE MUSCLES Part IL nous procefles of the three inferior vertebrae of the neck, and from the ligamentum nuchae. Inferted into the bafe of the fcapula, oppofite to its fpine. Ufe. To aflift the former^ On the neck, 3* SPLENiuS, t Artfes^ tendinous, from the four fuperior fpinous procef^ fes of the vertebrae of the back ; tendinous and fleftiy, from the five inferior of the neck, and adheres firmly to the liga- mentum nuchae. At the third vertebra of the neck, the fplenii recede from each other, fo that part of the complexus mufcle is feen. Inferted, by as many tendons, into the five fuperior tranf- verfe procefles of the vertebrae of the neck ; and tendinous and fldhy, into the pofterior part of the maftoid procefs, and into the os occipitis, where it joins with the root of that Ufe. To bring the head and upper vertebrae of the neck backwards laterally ; and, when both a£l, 'to pull the head dire£Uy backwards. N. B. Albinus divides this mufcle into two ; viz. That portion which arifes from the five inferior fpinous procefles of the neck, and is inferted into the maftoid procefs and os occipitis, he calls Splenitis Capitis : and that portion which arifes from the third, and fourth of the back, and is inferted into the five fuperior tranfverfe procefles of the neck, is cal- led by him Splenitis Colli.. The Angle pair, Serratus Superior Posticus, Arifes, by a broad thin tendon, from the fpinoOs pro- celTe»OF T H E T RUN K. 32 i Chap. XXIV. cefles of the three laft vertebroe of the neck, and the two uppermoft of the back. Inferted into the fecomi, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, by as many flefhy flips. Ufe.'To elevate the ribs, and dilate the thorax. The third layer confifls of three pair on the back, and three on the neck. Thofe on the back are, I. Spinalis Dorsi, Arifes from the fpinous procelTes of the two uppermoft vertebree of the loins, and the three inferior of the back by as many tendons. Inferted into the fpinous prbeefTes of the nine uppermoft vertebrae of the back, except the firft, by as many tendons. life. To ereft and fix the vertebra, and to^ aUift in rai- fing the fpine. 2. Longissimus Dorsi, Arifes, tendinous without, and flefliy within, from the fide, and all the fpinous procefles of the os facrum : from tlie pofterior fpine of the os ilium j from all the fpinous procefles; and from the roots of the tranfvcrfe procefles- of the vertebrae of the loins. Inferted into all the tranfverfe procefles of the vertebrze of the back, chiefly by fmall double tendons ; alfo by a tendinous and flefhy flip, into the lower edge qf all the ribs, except the two inferior, at a little diftance from their tubercles. Ufe. To extend the vertebrae, and to raife and keep the trunk of the body ere£l:. N. B. From the upper part of this mufcle there runs up VoL. I. S f aPart. II. 32Z OF THE MUSCLES a round flefliy portion which joins with the ccrvicalis de- fcendens. 3. S A C R O-L U M B A L I S, Arifes^ in common with the longiffimus dorfi. Inferted into all the ribs, where they begin to be curved forwards, by as many long and thin tendons ; and, From the upper part of the fix or eight lower ribs, arife as many bundles of thin flefhy fibres, which foon terminate in the inner-fide of this mufcle, and are named Mufeuli ad Sacra-luvibalem Accejjoriu life. To pull theiribs down, and aflift to ereft the trunk of the body. N. B. There is a flefliy flip which runs from the upper part of this mufcle into the fourth, fifth, and fixth tranf- verfe procefles of the vertebra; of the neck, by three dif- tinil: tendons: it is named Ccrvicalis Defeendens; and its ufe is to turn the neck obliquely backwards, and to one fide. On the neck are, i'. C o M r L E X u s, Arifes from the tranfverfe procefi’es of the feven fuperior vertebrse of the back, and four inferior of the neck, by as many diftimSl tendinous origins i in Its afeent it receives a flefliy flip from the fpinous procefs of the firft vertebra pf the back: From thefe 'different origins it runs upwards, and is every where intermixed with tendinous fibres. Infertedt tendinous and flefliy, into the inferior edge of the protuberance in the middle of the os occipitis, and in- to a part of the curved line that runs forwards from that protuberance. Ufe. 'I'o draw the head backwards, and to one fide; and, when both acb, to draw the head diredlly backwards. ' ’ N. B.323 Chap. XXIV. OF THE TRUNK. N. B. The long portion of this mufcle that is fituated next the fpinoue proccfl'es, lies more loofe, and has a roundilh tendon in the middle of it; for which reafon Al- binus calls it Bivrenter ceruich. • 2. Track elo-Mastoideus, Arifes from the tranfverfe procelTes of the three upper- moll vertLbrse of the back, and from the five lowermoll of the neck, where it is conne£led to the tranfverfalis ccr- vlcis, by as many thin tendons, which unhe into a belly, and run up under the fplenius. Inferted Into the middle of the poflerior fide of the ma- Iloid procefs, by a thin tendon. Ufe. To afiifl; the complexus; but it pulls the head more to a fide. Complexus minor, feu Majloideus laterulls, WInflow. Tracbelomajloideus, feu Capitis par tertmm FallopUy Douglas. 3. Levator Scapulae, Arifes, tendinous and flefliy, from the tranfverfe pro- ceffes of the five fupcrior vertebrae of the neck, by as many diftin£l flips, which foon unite to form a mufcle that runs downwards and outwards. Inferted, flefliy, into the fuperior angle of the fcapula. Ufe. To pull the fcapula upwards, and»a little for. • wards. Angularis, vel Levator proprius, Winflow. ^levator feu Altfcuius patient'ue, Douglas. The fourth layer conlifts of two pair on the back, two on the pollerior^ part of the neck, four fmall pair fituated immediately below the poflerior part of the occiput, and three on the fide of the neck. S f 2 OnPart II. 324 .OF THE MUSCLES On the back are, I. SeMI-SPI N ALIS DorsI, Arifes, from the tranfverfe proccrffes of the feventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth vertebrx of the back, by as many diflincf tendons, which foon grow flefliy, and then become tendinous again; and ate Iiifertedf into the fpinous procefTes of all the vertebrae of the back above the eighth, and- into the two lowermoll of 'the neck, by as many tendons. Ufe. To extend the fpine obliquely backwards. Sei77t-/pinalis externus, feu ’Tranfverfo fpinalis dorft, j Winflow. 2i Mdltifidus Spi nje. Arifes from the fide and fpinous procefTes of the os fa- crum, and from the poflerior part of the os ilium, where it joins with the facrum ; from all the oblique and tranf- verfe procefTes of the vertebite of the loins ; from all the tranfverfe proccfles of the vertebrae of the back, and from thofe of the neck, except the three firft, by as many dif- tinct tendons, which foon grow flefliy, run in an oblique dire£lion ; and are Jnferiedy bj^ diftincf tendons, into all the fpinous pro- cefl'es of the vertebrae of the loins, of the back, and of the neck, except the firfl:. Ufe. When the difleient portions of this mufeie a£l on one fide, they extend the back obliquely, or move it late- rally -, but if they acl together on both fides, they extend the vertebrae backwards. ‘Tranf-nerfo-fpinalis lumborwrif veterib. Sarer. SettJi fpinalis intemus, five "1 ranfverfofp'malts dorfi.Chap. XXIV. O F T H E T R U N K. 325 Semi-fpinalh, five Tran/verfo-fpi/iahs coUi, Pars interna^ Winflqw ' fZ*ranfverfalis lumborum, vulgo Sacer. Tranjverjalis dorji^ Tl ranfverfalis colli., Douglas. Oa the poderlor part of the neck are, I. Semt-Spinai.is Colli, ArifeSy from the tranfverfe procefles of tlie uppermoft fix vertebrae of the back, by as many dlllin£l tendons, z~. fcending obliquely under the complexus. Inferted into the fpinous procefles of all the vertebrae of the neck, except the fir ft and the laft. Ufe. To extend the neck obliquely backwarks. Semifpinallsy five ‘Tranfuerfe-fpinalis coUij Winflow. Spinalis cerviciSy Albinus. Spinalis, Douglas, 2. Transversalis Colli, Arifes from the tranfverfe procefles of the five upper- moft vertebrae of the back, by as many tendinous and flefhy origins; runs between the trachelo-maftoideus, and fplenius coili and cervicahs defcendens. Inferted into the tranfverfe procefles of all the cervical vertebrae, except the firft and the laft. Ufe. To turn the neck obliquely backward, and a little to one fide Below the pofterior part of the occiput are, I. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major, Arifes, flelhy, from the external part of the fpinous procefs of the fecond vertebra of the neck ; and grows broader326 OF THE MUSCLES Part If. broader in its afcenr, which is not flraight, but obliquely outwards. Infertedy tendinous and flelhy, into the os occipitls, near the re£lus capitis lateralis, and the infertion of the obli- quus capitis fuperior. Uft. To pull the head backwards, and to affift a little in Its rotation. \ ' RcSlus majory Window and Douglas. 2. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor, Arifesy by a narrow beginning, clofe to its fellow, from a little portuberance in the middle of the back part of the firft vertebra of the neck, its outer edge being covered by the reddus major. Infertedy fomewhat broad, into the fides of a dimple in the os occipitis, near its foramen magnum. TJfe. To alTift the re£lus major in moving the head back- wards. Obl'iquus minory Window and Douglas. 'a 3. O B LI Q^u US Capitis Superior, % Arifes from the tranfverfe procefs of the firft vertebra of the neck. '' Infertedy tendinous and flefliy, into the os occipitis be- hind the back-part of the maftoid procefs of the temporal bone, and under the infertion of the complexus mufcle, Ufe. To diaw the head backwards. Obliquus majory Windo-w’. Oblicfius Jttperiory Douglas. 4. O B L 1CLU us,Capitis Inferior, Arifes, defhy, from the fpinous procefs ofthe fecond vertebra of the neck, its whole length; and, forming a thick fiefliy belly, is hfertedChap. XXIV. OF THE TRUNK. 327 Inferted into the tranfverfe procefs of the firfl; vertebra of the neck. Ufe. To give a rotatory motion to the head. On the fide of the neck are, 1. Scalenus Anticus, Arifes, from the fourth, fifth, and fixth tranfverfe pro- cefles of the firfl vertebra of the neck, by as many ten- dons. Inferted, tendinous and flefhy, into the upper fide of the firfl rib. near its cartilage. Scalenus prior, Albinus. Anterior portion of thefirjl fcalenus, Winflow. Firjl fcalenus, Douglas. 2. Scalenus Med.ius, * Arifes^ from all the tranfverfe procefTes' of the vertcbrx of the neck, by as many flong tendons i the ^ nerves to the fuperior extremity pafs between it and the former. Inferted into the upper and outer part of the firfl rib, from its root, to within the ditlance of an inch from its cartilage. Pojlerior portion of the firjl fcalenus, Winflow. Second fcalenus, Douglas. 3. Scalenus Posticus, Arifes, from the fifth and fixth tranfverfe procefTes of the vertebrae of the neck. Inferted into the upper edge of tlie fecond rib, not far from the fpine. Pojlerior portion of the fecond fcalenus, Winflow. Third fcalenus, Douglas. Ufeoi the three fcaleni: To bend the neck to one fide; or.Part II. 328 OF THE MUSCLES or, when the neck is fixed, to elevate the ribs, and to di- late the thorax. , There are a number of fmall mufcles fituated between the fpinous and tranfverfe procefles of contiguous verte- brae j which are accordingly named, I. Interspinales Colli, The fpace between the fpinous procefles of the vertebrae of the neck, moll of which are bifurcated, is filled up with flefhy portions ; which Ar'ife, double, from the fpinous procefs of the inferior vertebrae of the neck; and afcend to be Infertcdy in the fame manner, into the fpinous procefs of the fuperior vertebra. They are five in number. Ufe. To draw thefe procefles nearer to each other. \ 2. InTERTRAN SVERSALES CoLLI. They begin from the tranfverfe procefs of the firll verte- bra of the back, and fill up the fpaces between the tranf- verfe procefles of the vertebrie of the neck, which are like- wife bifurcated ; and, confequently, there are fix diftinfl double mufcles, which Arife from the inferior tranfverfe procefs of each verte- bra of the neck, and firfi of the back, and are Inferted into the fuperior tranfverfe procefles. Ufe. To draw thefe procefles towards each other, and turn the neck a little to one fide. 3, 4, 5. Interspinales Dorsi et Lumborum, and the ' Intertransversai.es Dorsi, Are rather fmall tendons than mufcles, ferving to con- ned the fpinal and tranfverfe procefles. 6. Inter329 Chap. XXV. ' OF THE EXTREMITIES. 6. Intertransversales Lumborum, Are four diftinft fmall bundles of flelh, which fill up the fpaces between the tranfverfe procefies of the vertebra: of the loinSj and ferve to draw them towards each other. CHAP. XXV. m Muscles of the Superior Extremities. These may be.divided into the mufcles that are fituated on the fcapula, on the os humeri, on the cubit or fore- arm, and on the hand. Mufcles fituated on the fcapula. Thefe are called w///I7ej of os humeri; and are three behind, one along its inferior coda, two before, and one beneath it. Behind are, I. SUPRASPINATUS, Arifes, flefhy, from all that part of the bafe of the fcapula that is above its fpine ; alfo from the fplne and fuperior cof- ta j paffes under the acromion, and adheres to the capfular ligament of the os humeri. Inferted, tendinous, into that part of the large protuberance on the head of the os humeri that is next the groove for lodging the tendon of the long head of the biceps. Ufe. To raife the arm upwards; and, at the fame time, to pull the capfular ligament from between the bones, tlu.t it may not be pinched. VoL. I. T t 2. In-OF THE MUSCLES Fart II. 33* 2. Infraspinatus, ArifeSy flefhy, from all that part of the bafe of the fca- pula that Is between its fpine and inferior angle ; from the fpiue as far as the cervix of the fcapula. The fibres afcend and defcend obliquely towards a tendon in the middle of the mufcle, which runs forwards, and adheres to the capfular li- gament. 'lujcrtedy by a thick and fliort tendon, into the upper and middle part of the large protuberance on the head of the os humeri. Ufe. To roll the humerus outwards ; to affift in raifing, and in fupporting it when railed ; and to pull the ligament from between the bones. iSI. B. Thefe two mufcles are covered with a tendinous membrane, from which a number of their flefhy fibres arife. It ferves befides to tlrengthen their aclions, and keeps them from fwelling too much outwardly when in action. 3. Teres Minor, Artfesy flefhy, from all the round edge of the inferior cofta of the fcapula, and runs forwards along the inferior edge of the infrafpinatus mufcle, and adheres to the liga- ment. Itifertedy tendinous, into the back-part of the large protu- berance on the head of the .os humeri, a little behind and below the termination of the lafl named mufcles. Ufe. To roll the humerus outwards ; to draw the hume- rus backwards; and to prevent the ligament from being pinched between the bones. Along the inferior cofla of the fcapula is, Teres331 Chap. XXV. OF THE SCAPULA. Teres Major, Arifes, flefliy, from the inferior angle of the fcapula, and from all that portion of its inferior cofta that is rough and thicker than the reil:; its flefhy fibres are continued over part of the infrafpinatus mufcle, to which they firmly adhere. Inferted, by a broad, fliorr, and thin tendon, into the ridge at the inner fide of the groove for lodging the tendon of the long head of the biceps, along with the latillimus dorfi. Ufc. To roll the humerus inwards, and to draw it back- wards and downwards. / The two before the fcapula are, I. Deltoides, Arifes, flefliy, from all the pofterior part of the clavicle that the pe£loralis major does not polTefs; tendinous and flefliy, from the acromion, and lower margin of abnoft the w'hole fpine of the fcapula oppofite to the infertion of the cucullaris mufcle : from thefe origins it runs in three, diffe- rent dire£tions, 1. e. from the clavicle outwards and down- wards ; from the fpine of the fcapula outwards, forwards, ' and downwards; and from the acromion ftraighc downwards ; and is compofed of a number of fafciculi, which form a (Irong flefliy mufcle that covers the anterior part of the joint of the os humeri. ' Inferted, tendinous, into a rough protuberance in the outer fide of the os humeri, near its middle, where the fibres of this mufcle intermix with fome part of the bracliialis ex- ternus. life. To pull the arm dire£Uy outwards and upwards, and a little forwards or backwards, according to the different di* regions of its fibres. T t 5 a. C 0-OF THE MUSCLES Part II. 332 2. C O R A C 0-B R A C H I A L 1 S, Arifes, tendinous and flefliy, from the fore-part of the coracoid procefs of the fcapula; adhering, in its defcent, to the fhort head of the biceps. Inferted^ tendinous and flefhy, about the middle of the in- ternal part of the os humeri, near the origin of the third head of the triceps, called hrachlalis externus^ where it fends down a thin tendinous expanfion to the internal condyle of the os humeri. Ufe. To raife the arm upwards and forwards. N. B. There paffes a nerve through this mufcle, called Mujculo cutaneus. The one beneath the fcapula is, SUBSCAPULARIS, Arifes, llefliy, from all the bafe of the fcapula Internally, and from its fuperior and inferior coflte, being compofed of a number of tendinous and flelhy fafciculi, which make prints on the bone; they all join together, fill up the hollow of the fcapula, and pafs over the joint adhering to the,capfular liga- ment. Infertedy tendinous, into the upper part of the internal pro- tuberance at the head of the os humeri. Ufe. To roll the humerus inwards, and to draw it to the fide of the body ; and to prevent the capfular ligament from being pinched. CHAP.333 Chap. XXVI. OF THE O'S HUMERI. CHAP. XXVI. Muscles Jituated on the Os Humeri. \ 'These are called Mufcles of the Cubit or Fore-arm. They confift of two before, and two behind. \ Before are, I. Biceps Flexor Cubiti, Arlfes^ by two heads. The firfl and outermoll, called longus, begins tendinous from the upper edge of the gle- noid cavity of the fcapula; pafles over the head of the os humeri within the joint; and, in its defcent without the joint, is inclofcd in a groove near the head of the os hume- ri, by a membranous ligament that proceeds from the cap- fular ligament and adjacent tendons. The fecond, or in- ncrmoll head, called brevis, arifes, tendinous and flelhy, from the coracoid prpcefs of the fcapula, in common with the coraco-brachialis mufcle. A little below the middle of the fore-part of os humeri, thefe heads unite. ^ Inferted, by a Itrong roundilh temlon, into the tubercle of the upper end of the radius internally. Ufe. To turn the hand fupine, aud to bend the fore- arm. N B. At the bending of the elbow, where it begins to grow tendinous, it fends off an aponeurofis, which covers allPart II. 334 OF THE MUSCLES all the mufcles on the infide of the fore-arm, and joins with another tendinous membrane, which is fent off from the trl- ceps extenfor cubiti, and covers all the mufcles on the outfide of the fore-arm, and a number of the fibres, from oppofite fibres, decuflate eacli other. It ferves to ftrengthen the muf- cles, by keeping them from fwelllng too much outwardly, when in a£Hon ; and a number of their flefhy fibres tVke their origin from it. Biceps brachii, Alblnus. Coraco'radialis, feu biceps ^ Win flow. ^ Biceps-internusy Douglas. 2. B R A‘C H I A L I S INTERN US, Arifesy flefhy, from the middle of the os humeri, at each fide of the infertlon of the deltoid mufcle, covering all the inferior and fore-part of this bone, runs over the joint, and adheres firmly to the ligament. Infertedy by a flrong fhort tendon, into the coronoid pro- cefs of the ulna. Ufe. To bend the fore-arm, and to prevent the capfular ligament of the joint from being pinched. Brachialisy Winflow. I Behind are, I. Triceps Extensor Cubiti, ArifeSy by three heads ; the firft, called longusy fojne what broad and tendinous, from the inferior cofla of the fcapu- la, near its cervix. The fecond head called brevisy arifes by an acute, tendinous, and flefliy beginning, from the back-part of the os humeri, and a little below its head, out- wardly. The third, called braehinlis exiernuSy arifes by an acute beginning, from the back-part of the os humeri. Thefe three heads unite lower than the infertlon of the te- resChap. XXVir. OF THE FORE-ARM. 335 res major, and cover the whole pofterlor part of the hume- rus, from which they receive addition in their defcent. Inferted into the upper and external part of the procefs of tlie ulna, called olecranon^ and partly into the condyles of the os humeri, adhering firmly to the ligament. Ufe. To extend the fore-arm. Anconeus //w/ir, Anconeus externus and Anconeus inters nus, Winflow. Biceps externus, and Brachialis externus, Douglas, q. Anconeus, ■ w Arifes, tendinous, from the pofterior part of the external condyle of the os humeri; it foon grows flelhy, and is con- tinued from the third head of the triceps. Injerted, tlelhy, and thin, into a ridge on the outer and pofterior edge of the ulna, being continued fome way below the olecranon, and covered with a tendinous membrane. Ufe. To affift in extending the fore-arm. Anconeus minor, Winflow. Anconeus, vel Cubitalis Riolani, Douglas. • C II A P. XXVII. Muscles fituated on the Cubit or Fore-Arm* *. *'T~'HESE may be divided into three clafles j firf, flex- ors and extenfors of the whole hand; fecond, flex- ors • In the following defeription, the arm is fuppofi*d to hang by the fide with the palm turned forwards ; fo that the radius and thumb arc upon its puter fide, and the ulna and little finger upon its inner fide ; whereas, when the mufcles are deferibed in the lefs draining pofture of pronation, as has been generally done by authors, the outmoft confufion is neceflarily in- troduced in the application of the terms outer and inner, from the decuffation . «f the radius and ulna.33^ OF THE MUSCLES ’ Part II. ors and extenfors of the fingers ; and third, fuplnators and pronators, or thofe that roll the radius on the ulna. / Firfi clafs confifts of three flexors, and three extenfors. Flexors : I. Palmaris Longos, Arifes, tendinous, from the internal condyle of the os hu- meri, foon grows flefliy, and after a fhort progrefs, fends off a long flender tendon. ^ Inferted into the ligamentum carpi annulare, and into a tendinous membrane that is expanded on the palm of the hand, named aponeurojis palmaris ; which, above, begins at the tranf- verfe or annular ligament of the wrift, and, below, is fixed to, the roots of the fingers. Ufe. To bend the hand, and to ftretch the membrane that is expanded on the palm. Ulnaris gracilis, Winflow. N. B. This mufcle is fometimes wanting *, but the apo- neurofis palmaris is always to be found, and a fmall mufcle named Palmaris Brevis, Arlfes from the ligamentum carpi annulare, and ten- dinous membrane that is expanded on the palm of the hand. Inferted, by fmall bundles of flefhy fibres, into the flcin and fat that covers the abduftor minimi digiti, and into the os pififorme. IJfe. To aflifl: in contracting the palm of the hand. Palmaris cuianeus, Winflow. 2. Flexor /I lOiap. XXVII. OF THE FORE-ARM. ‘ J37 2. Flexor Carpi Radialis, ArifeSt tendinous and flefhy, from the internal condyle (of the os humeri, and from the anterior part of the upper tend of the ulna, where it firmly adheres to the pronator 1 radii teres. Infertedf by a llat tendon, into the fore and upper part of the metacarpal bone that fuftaiiis the fore finger, after 1 running through a fofla in the os trapezium. Ufe. To bend the hand, and to affift in its pronation. Raclldlis inicrnus, AlbinUs and Winflow. 3. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris'," I ArifcSy tendinous, from the internal condyle of the os 1 humeri. It has likewife a fmall flefhy beginning from the (outer fide of the olecranon; between which and the con- (dyle the ulnar nerve pafles to the fore-arm ; and a number (of its flefhy fibres arife from the tendinous membrane 1 which covers the fore-arm. Infertedy by a fliort ftfong tendon, into the os pififorme ; rat a little diftance from its infertion, a fmall ligament is fent (ofF to the metacarpal bone that fuftains the little finger. Ufe. To affift the former in bending the arm. . Ulnaris internus, Albinus and Winflow. E.xtenfors are, I. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior, ' Arifes, broad, thin, and flefliy, immediately below the Ifupinator radii longus, from the lower part of'the exter- [ inal ridge of the os humeri, above its external condyle. Injertcd, by a round tendon, into the pofterior and up- fper part of the metacarpal bone that fuftains the fore- I finger. VcL. I. U u ■ ' - Ufe. . IPart IT. OF THE MUSCLES 335 life. To extend and bring the hand backwards. Radialis externus longkr, iVlblnus. Raclialis externus primus^ Winflow. 2. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior, Arifest tendinous, from the external condyle of the os humeri, and from the ligament that connefts the radius to it, and runs along the outfide of the radius. In/erted, by a round tendon, into the upper and back part of the metacarpal bone that fuftains the middle finger. life. To afiill the lad-mentioned mufcle. ' Radialis externus brevior, Alblnus. Radialisfecundus, Winflow. 3, Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, Arijes, tendinous, from the external condyle of the os humeri-, and, in'its prdgrefs, flefliy from the middle of the ulna, where it pafles over the ulna. Its round tendon is inclo'fed by a membranous Iheath, in a groove which is fituated at the extremity of the ulna. ‘In/erted, by its round tendon, into the pofterior and up- per part of the metacarpal bone that fuftains the little- linger. Ufe. To aflift the former in extending the hand. Ulnaris externus, Albinus and Winflow. Second Clafs. The flexors and fxtenfors of the four fingers are lw<f long, and one fmall flexor to each finger, and one exten- for. I. Flexor Sublimis" Perforatus, Anfr, tendinous and flethy, from the internal condyle of the os humeri; tendinous from the coronoid procefs of theHi ap. XXVni. O F T H E F O R E-A R M. 339 the ulna, near the edge of the cavity that receives the head of the radius; flefliy from the tubercle of the radius; and membranous and flefliy from the middle of the fore-part of the radius, where the flexor pollicis longus arifes. Its flefliy belly fends off four round tendons before it pafles under the ligament of the wrid. Inferted into the anterior and upper part of the fecond bone of each finger, being, near the extremity of the firfl; bone, divided for the pafTige of the perforans. Ufe. To bend the fecond joint or phalanx of the firtgers. Sublimits, Albinus. PerforatuSy Douglas. * 2. FjLExoK Profundus Perforans, AnfeSy flefliy, from the external fide, and upper part of the ulna, for fome way downwards, and from a large fliare of the interoflTeous ligament. It fplits into four ten- dons, a little before it pafles under the ligamentum car- pi anulare ; and thefe pafs through the flits in the ten- dons of the flexor fublimis. i Inferted into the fore and upper part of the third or lad bone of all the four fingers. Ufe. To bend the laft joint of the fingers. ProfunduSy Albinus. Perforansy Douglas. I The four fmall flexors are named Lumbricales. Arifcy thin and flefliy, from the outfide of the tendons* of the flexor profundus, a little above the lower edge of the ligamentum carpi annulare. ^ Infertedy by long flender tendons, into the outer fides of - U u 2 theOF THE MUSCLES 34® Part II. the broad tendons of the interoflei mufcles, about the mld- • die of the fir ft joint. ^ Ufe. To increafe the flexion of the fingers while the long flexors arc in full adlion. Extenfors are, Extensor Digitqrum Communis, j^rtfssy by an acute, tendinous, and flefhy beginning, from the external condyle of the os humeri, where it ad- heres to the fupinator radii brevis. Befoi;e it palTes under the ligamentum carpi annulare externum, it fplits into four tendons ; fome of which may be divided into feveral fmal- ler: and about the fore-part of the metacarpal bones they yemit tendinous filaments to each other, Inferted into the pofterior part of all the bones'of the four fingers, by a tendinous expanfion. Ufe. To extend all the joints of the fingers. Third Clafsy Confifts of four mufcles, viz. two fttpinaiors, and two pronators. Supinators are, I. Supinator Radii Longus, ArifeSi by an acute and flefliy origin, from the exteinal ■ ridge of the os humeri, above the external condyle, near as far up as the middle of that bone. • Inferted into the outer-fide of the inferior extremity of the radius. Ufe. To roll the radius outwards, and confequently the palm of the hand upwards. Supinatut341 Cliap. KXVII. O F T K E F O R E-A R M. Supinator longus, AlbinuSj Winflow, and Douglas. 2. SuPINATOmRADIlBREVIS, Arifes, tendinous, from the external condyle of the oj humeri; tendinous and flefliy, from the external and up* per part of the ulna, and adheres firmly to the ligament that joins thefe two bones, Inferteil into the head, neck, and tubercle of the ra- dius, near the infertion of the biceps, and ridge running from that downwards and outwards. Ufe. To roll the radius outwards, and fo bring the hand fupine. Pronators are, I. P R O N A TO R R A D I I T E R E S, Arifesy flelhy, from the internal condyle of the os hu- meri, and tendinous from the coronoid procefs of the ulna. Inferted, thin, tendinous, and flefliy, into the middle of the pofterior part of the radius. Ufe. To roll the radius, together with the hand, in- wards. 2. Pronator Radii Qju a d r a t u s, • ArifeSy broad, tendinous, and flelhy, from the lower and inner part of the ulna; the fibres run tranfverfely, t® be Inferted into the lower and anterior part of the radios, oppofite to its origin. Ufe. To tprn the radius, together with the hand, ia- y^artls, CHAP.34l« Part II. OF THE MUSCLES n CHAP. XXVIII. Muscles fttuaied on H a n b chiefly, ^"I^HESE may be divided into four citifies, viz. muf- cles of the thitmh^ fo/e fingery Ittfle-flngery and me- tacarpal bones, Mufcles of the Thumb. Thefe confifl: of three flexors^ three extenjorsy one ab- duSloKy and one addiiclor. I Flexors are, 1. Flexor LongusPollicis Manus, Arifesy by an acute flefliy beginning, from the upper part of the radius, immediately below its tubercle, and is continued down for fome fpace on the fore-part of this bone. It has likewife generally another origin from the internal condyle of the os humeri, which forms a diflincl flefliy flip that terminates near the upper part of the origin from the radius. Injerted into the lad joint of the thumb, after having paired its tendon under the ligament of the wrift. Ufe. To bend the laft joint of the thumb. Flexor tertii internoduy Douglas. I 2. Flexor Brevis Pollicis Manus, ✓ from the os trapezoides, magnum, and unciformc >. - oiChap. XXVIII. OF THE HAND. 343 2. Ex- of the carpus, and Is divided Into two portions by the ten- don of the flexor pollicis longus. Inferted into the ofla fefamoidea and firfl bone of the thumb. Ufe. To bend the firfl; joint of the thumb. Flexorfecundi internodii^ Douglas. Flexor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, or Opponens Pollicis, ArifeSf flefliy, from the os trapezium and llganientuni carpi annulare, lying under the abduflor pollicis. Infertedy tendinous and flefliy, into the under and ante- rior part of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Ufe. To bring the thumb inwards, oppofite to the other fingers. Flexor prltni intermdiiy Douglas. Extenfors are, I. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis Manus, ' ArtfeSy flefliy, from the middle and poflerior part of the ulna, immediately below the infertion of the anconseus mufcle, from the poflerior part of the middle of ra- dius, and from the interoflTcous ligament. lufertedy generally by two tendons, into the os trape- zium, and upper back-part of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and often joins with the abdutflor pollicis. Ufe. To extend the metacarpal bone of the thumb out-* wardly. AhduBor longus pollicis manuSy Albinus. , , Extenfor priml intertiodiiy Douglas.OF THE MUSCLES Fa»t IL 344 0 2. Extensor Primi internodi i, / ^ Arifes, flefliy, from the pofterior part of the ulna near the former mufcle, and from the interofleous ligament. Infertedi tendinous, into the pofterior part of the firft bone of the thumb; and part of it may be traced as far as the fecond bone, Uf?. To extend the firft bone of the thumb obliquely outwards. Extenfor minor poUicis maims^ Albinus. . This and the preceding mufcle is called Extenfor poUicir primus^ Winllow. Extenfor fecundt interiiodii, Douglas. j. Extensor Secundt Internodti, Arifes^ by an acute, tendinous, and fleftiy beginning, from the middle back-part of the ulna, and from the interofleous ligarnent; its tendon runs through a fmall groove at the inner and back part of the lower end of the radius. Jnferted into the laft bone of the thumb. Vje. To extend the laft joint of the thumb obliquely backwards. Extenfor major potlicis maimsy AFoinu^. Extenfor pollicis fectinduSy Winflow. Extenfor tertii intermdiiy Douglas. ' Abductor Pollicis Manus, ArlfeSy by a broad tendinous and flefliy beginning, from the ligamentum carpi annulare, and from the ds tra- pezium. Infertedy tendinous. Into the outer fide of the root of the firft bone of the thumb. Ufc. To draw the thumb from the fingers. N. B .Chap. XXVIII. OF THE HAND. 34^ Little X X VOL. I. N. B, Albinus names the inner portion of this mufcle Ahduclor brevis alter. Abduclor, ’Bkemr Riolani, Douglas. \ AdductorPoi. Licis Manus, Arifes, flefhy, from almdll the whole length of the meta- carpal bone that fuftains the middle finger; from thence its fibres arecolledled together. Jnferted, tendinous, into the inner part of the root of the firft bone. ' Ufe. To pull the thumb towards the fingers. AdduElor ad minimum digitum, Douglas. Fore-finger: Indicator, Arifes, by an acute flefliy beginning, from the middle of the pofterior part of the ulna ; its tendon'pafles under the fame ligament with the extenfor digitorum communis, with part of which it is Inferted into the pofterior part of the fore-finger. Extenfor fecundi internodii indicis prepriuSy vulgo indicatory Douglas. Abductor Indicis Manus, ArifeSy from the os trapezium, and from the fuperior part and inner fide of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Inferted, by a fiiort tendon, into the outer and back-part of the firft bone of the fore-finger. life. To bring the fore-finger towards the thumb. Semi-interoJfeuSy Winflow.OF THE MUSCLES 346 Part IL Little finger: Abductor Minimi Digiti Manus, Arifes^ fleftiy, from the os plfiforme, and from that part of the ligamentum carpi annulare next it. Infertedy tendinous, into the inner fide of the upper end of the firft bone of the little finger. Ufe. To draw this finger from the reft. Hypothenar minory Winflow. Estenfor tertii internodii minimi digitiy Douglas. Adductor Metacarpi Minimi Digiti Manus, ArifeSy flelliy, from the thin edge of the os unciforme, and from that part of the ligament of the wrifl; next it. Infertedy tendinous, into the inner fide and anterior part of the metacarpal bone of this finger. Ufe. To bend and bring the metacarpal bone of this finger to'Jt'ards the reft. Metnearpusy Winflow. Elexor primt internodii minimi digitiy Douglas. Flexor Parvus Minimi Digiti, ArifeSy flefliy, from the outer fide of the os unciforme, and from the ligament of the wrift which joins with that bone. Inferted, by a roundifh tendon, into the inner and anterior part of the upper end of the firft bone of this finger. Ufe. To bend the little finger, and alfift the addu£tor. Abductor minimi digiti, Hypothenar Riolatiiy Douglas. Between the metacarpal bones, there are four internal and three external mufcles named interojfci. InterolTeiChap. XXVIII. OF THE HAND. 347 Interoflei interni : I. Prior Indicis, ArifeSy tendinous and flefliy, from the upper and outer part of the metacarpal bone that fudains the fore-finger. Inferted into the outfide of that part of the tendinous ex- panfion from the extenfor digitorum communis, which co- vers the pofterior part of the fore-finger. Ufe. To draw the fore-finger Inwards towards the thumb, and extend it obliquely. Extenfor tertii internodn indicts^ Douglas. 2. Posterior Indicis, Arifes, tendinous and fidliy, from the root and inner p^rt of the metacarpal bone that fuftains the fore-finger. Inferted into the inner fide of the tendinous expanfion which is fent off from the extenfor digitorum communis along the pofterior part of the fore-finger. life. To extend the fore-finger obliquely, and to draw it outwards. Firjl iniereffcus^ Douglas. 3. Prior Annularis, \ ArifeSf from the root of the outfide of the metacarpal bone that fuftains the ring-finger. Inferted into the outfide of the tendinous expanfion of the extenfor digitorum communis which covers the ring-finger. life. To extend and pull the ring-finger towards the thumb. Fourth interojfeusy Douglas. 4. Interosseus Auuicularis, Arifes from the root and outer fide of the metacarpal bone of the little finger; and is Inferted X X 2348 OF THE MUSCLES Fart II, Inferted Infcried Into the outfide of the tendinous expanfion of the extenfor digitorum communis, which covers the pofterior part of the little finger. Ufe. To extend and draw the little finger outwards. ^ixth httercJfeuSf Douglas. \ » Interoflei externi, feu bicipites : I. Prior Medii, j^rifes, by two origins, from the roots of the metacarpal bones that fuftain the fore snd middle fingers externally, and next each other : Runs along the outfide of the middle finger ; and, being confpicuous on both fides of the hand, is Inferted into the outfide of the tendinous expanfion from the extenfor digitorum communis, which covers the pollerior part of the middle finger. Ufe. To extend, and to draw the middle finger inwards. Second interoJfeuSy Douglas, 2. Posterior Medii, Jlrifes, by two origins, from the roots of the metacarpal bones, next each other, that fuftain the middle and ring- > fingers. Inferted into the infide of the tendinous expanfion from the extenfor digitorum communis, which runs along the pofteri- or part of the middle-finger. Ufe. To extend and draw the middle-finger outwards. Ihird interoJftuSf Douglas. 3. P o's T E R10 r Annularis, j^rifes, by two origins, from the roots of the metacar- pal bones that fuftain the ring and little fingers next each other.Chap. XXIX OF THE TH I G H. 349 Infcrted into the infuie of the tendindus expanfion of the extenfor digitorum communis, which runs along the pofterior part of the ring*finger. Ufe. To extend and draw the ring-finger inwards, Fyth inieroJfeuSi Douglas. N. B. The internal interoflei are only confpicuous on the palm of the hand ; but the external are apparent on both the palm and back of the hand. CHAP. XXIX. Muscles of the Infertor Extremities. ^T^HESE may be divided into the mufcles Jituated on the ouiftde of the pelvis, on the thigh, on the leg, and on the foot. Mufcles on the outfide of the pelvis, which are called mufcles of tire thigh. Thefe are compofed of one layer before and three layers be- hind. The layer before confifts of five mufcles : 1. Psoas Magnus. . . r -i i T , Wheieweredelcnbed.p.-Ji I. &: atz. 2. IliacusInternus. \ ^ 3. Pectinalis, Arifes, broad and flefliy, from the upper and anterior part of the os pubis or pedinis, immediately above the foramen thyroideum. Inferted into the anterior and upper-part of the linea af- peraPartTl. 3SO OF THE MUSCLES pera of the os femori?, a little below the trochanter minor, hy aflat and fliort tendon. Ufe. To bring the thigh upwards, and inwards, and to give it a degree of rotation outwards. PeSHneus, Albinus. 4. Triceps Adductor Femori s, Under this appellation are comprehended three diftinfib mufcles ; 1. Adductor Longus Femori s, ArifeSy by a ftrong roundilh tendon^ from the upper and interior part of the os pubis, and ligament of its fynchondrofis, on the inner fide of the peftinalis. Inferttdy tendinous, near the middle of the pofterior part of the linea afpera, being continued for fome way down. AdduSior femorls primus^ Douglas. Triceps minus, Winflow. 2. Adductor Brevis Femoris, Arifes, tendinous from the os pubis near its joining with the oppofite os pubis below and behind the former. Infertcd, tendinous and flefliy, into the inner and upper part of the linea afpera, from a little below the trochanter minor, to the beginning of the infcrtion of the addudlor longus. Adduclorfemorlsftcundus, Douglas., Triceps fecundus, Winflow. ' 3. Adductor Magnus Femoris, Arifes, a little lower down than the former, near the fymphafis of the ofla pubis; tendinous and flefliy, from the tuberofity of the os ifclijum ; the fibres run outwards and downwards* Injected^35« Chap.XXIX. OF THE THIGH. Infertedy Into almofl the whole length of the linea afpe* ra ; into a ridge above the internal condyle of the os femo- rls; and, by a roundifh long tendon, into the upper part of that condyle, a little above which the femoral artery takes a fpinal turn towards the ham, pafling between this mufcle and the bone. Ufe of thefe three mufcles or triceps. To bring the thigh Inwards and upwards, according to the different di- redions of their fibres; and, in fome degree, to roll the thigh outwards. AdduElor femoris, tertlus^ and, AdluB'jrfemoris quartus^ Douglas. Triceps tertiusy Winflow. / 5. Obturator Externus. * Arifes, flelhy, from the lower fore-part of the os pubis, and fore.part of the inner crus of the ifchium; furrounds the foramen thyroideum ; a number of its fibres, arifing from the membrane which fills up that foramen, are col- leded like rays towards a centre, and pafs outwards a- round the root of the back-part of the cervix of the os fe- moris. Inferted, by a ftrong tendon, into the cavity at the in- ner and back-part of the root of the trochanter major, adhering in its courfe to the capfular ligament of the thigh- bone. Ufe. To roll the tlilgh-borie obliquely outwards, and to prevent the capfular ligament from being pinched. Behind are, Firjl l.aysr. Gluteus Maximus, Arifes, flefliy, from the pofterior pait of the fpine of the osOF THE MUSCLES 35i Part II. os ilium, a little higher up than the joining of the ilium with the os facrum, from the whole external fide of the os facrum, below the pofterior fpinous procefs of the os ilium ; from the pofterior facro-Ifchiatic ligament, over which part of the inferior edge of this mufcle hangs In a folded manner; from the os coccygis. All the flefliy fibres run obliquely forwards, and a little downwards, to .form a thick broad mufcle, which is divided into a number of ftrong fafciculi. The upper part of it covers almoft the whole of the trochanter major, between which and the tendon of this mufcle there is a large burfa mucofa, and where It is infe- parably joined to the broad tendon of the ienfer 'vagina jemoris. Ififertedf by a ftrong, thick, and broad tendon into the upper and outer part of the linea afpera, which is con- tinued from the trochanter major, for fome w'ay down- wards. life. T.o extend the thigh, by pulling it diredly back-* wards, and a little outwards. Gluteus magnus, Albinus. Gluteus rnapr^ Cow'per. / - Second Layer. Gluteus M EDI us, J^rfes, fteHiyi from the anterior fuperior fpinous procefs of the os ilium, and from all the outer edge of the fpme of the ilium, except its pofterior part, w'here it arifes from the dorfum of that bone. Inferted, by a broad tendon. Into the outer and pofterior part of the trochanter major. Uje. To draw the thigh-bone outwards, and a little back- wards; to roll the thigh-bone outwards, cfpecially when it ij bended. - N. Bi.Chap. XXIX. OF THE THIGH. 353 iY. B. The anterior and upper part of this mufcle is co- vered by a tendinous membrane, from which a numbef' of its fleOiy fibres arife, and which joins with the broad ten- dons of the gluteus maximus, tenfor vaginre femoris, and latifiimus dorfi. Third Layer conftjls of four Mufcles. I. G I. u T E tj s Minimus, ArifeSy flefliy, from a ridge that is continued from the fuperior anterior fpinous procefs of the os ilium, and from the' middle of the dorfum of that bone as far back as its great niche. Infvrted, by a ftrong tendon, iiito the fore aijd upper part of the trochanter major. ' Ufe. To alfift the former in pulling the thigh outwards and backwards, and in rolling it. Gluteus minors Albinus. 2. P Y R t F 0 R M I S, ArifeL within the pelvis, by three tendinous and llefhy Urlgtns, frorh the fecond, third, and fourth pieces of the os facrum ; from thence growing gradually narrower,, it pafles out of the pelvis along with the p’ofterior crural nerve, below the niche in the pofterlor part of the os ilium, where it receives a few flefhy fibres. Inferted, by a roundiOi tendon, into the upper part of ' the cavity at the inner fide of the root of the trochanter major. IJfc. To move the thigh a little upwards, and roll it out- ti'ards. PyriformiSf feu iliacus externus, Douglas . ^.Gemini, Arifes, by two dlfiimfl origins; the fuperior from the VoL.' I. Y y fpinousPart n. 354 OF THE MUSCLES fpinous procefs, and the Infeidor from the tuberofity of the os ifchium; alfo, from the poflerior facro-ifchiatlc li- gament. They are both united by a tendinous and flelhy membrane, and form a purfe for the tendon of the obtu- rator internus mufcle, which was formerly deferibed. In/ertedf tendinous and flefliy, Into the cavity at the iii- ' ner fide of the root of the trochanter major, on each fide of the tendon of the obturator internus, to which they firmly adhere. XJ/e. To roll the thigh outwards, and to preferve the tendon of the obturator Internus from being hurt by the hardnefs of that part of the ifchium over which it palTes ; alfo, to hinder it from ftarting out of its place, while the mufcle is in aftion. Gemelliy Winfiow. 4. QjJ ADRATUS Fe MORIS, , Arifes^ tendinous and flefliy,/from the outfide of the tu- berefity of the os ifchium; and, running tranfverfely, is Inferted, flefliy, into a rough ridge, continued from the root of the large trochanter to the root of the fmall one. To roll the thigh outwards. Ill' ...i-iL.' ..XI. I C H A p. XXX. t «; Muscles Jituated on the Thigh. These are called mufclcs of the leg\ and confift of one^ on the outfide \ HvOi on the in fide: four, before ; and fouYy behind. PreviousChap. XXX. ON THE THIGH. 355 Prevlous to the clefcriptlon of the mufcles that are fitua- ted on the thigh and leg, it is neceflary to take notice of a broad tendinous fafcia or flieath, which is fent oft from t!ie back and from the tendons of the glutei and adjacent mufcles. It is a ftrong thick membrane on the outfide of the thigh and leg; but, towards the infide of both, it gradually turns thinner, and has rather the appearance of cellular fubftance, than a tendinous membrane. A little below the trochanter major, it is firmly fixed to the linea afpera; and, farther down, to that part of the head of the tibia that is next the fibula *, where it fends off the tendinous ex- panfion along the outfide of the leg. It ferves to ftrengthen the a£Hon of the mufcles, by keeping them .firm in their proper places while in adlion, particularly the tendons that pafs over the joints, where this membrane is thickeft;; and it gives origin to a number of the fleftiy fibres of the mufcles. On the outfide is, - • I Tensor Vagina Femoris, ■ArifeSy by a narrow tendinous, and fleftiy beginning, from the external part of the anterior fuperior fpinous procefs of the os ilium. 'injertedy a little below the ^ trochanter major, into the inner fide of the membranous fafcia which covers the out- fide of the thigli. ’ Ufe^ To ftretch the membranous fafcia, to airift; in the abduflion of the thigh, and fomewhat in its rotation in- wards.. . Mufculus fafcia lata^ Winflow. y V % On35^ OF THE MUSCLES Part II. On the infide are, I. Sartorius, ArifeSy tendinous, from the anterior fuperior fplnous procefs of the os ilium, loon grows flelhy, runs down for fome fpace upon the redfus, and going obliquely inwards, iCpalTes over the vaftus internes, and about the middle of the os femoris, over part of the triceps, it runs down farther between the tendon of the abdudlor rnagnus and that of the gracilis mufde. Injsriedy by a broad and thin tendon, into the inner fide of the tibia, near tlie inferior part of its tubercle. Ufe. To bend the leg obliquely inwards, or to bring one leg acrofs the other. 2. Gracilis, AriJeSy by a thin tendon, from the os pubis near the fymphyfi^ of thefe two bones: foon grows flefliy; and, defeending by the infide of the thigh, is Injertedy tendinous, into the tibia under the fartorius. U/t’'. To aflill the fartorius. Gracilis intertiusy five ReHus intertsus, Winflow. Before are, I. Rectus, , \ Arifesy fldhy, from the inferior anterior fpinous pro- cefs of the 03 ilium, and tendinous from the dorfum of the ilium, a little above the acetabulum; runs down over the anterior part of the cervix of the os femoris, the fibres not being ftraight, but running down like the plumage of a feather obliquely outwards and inwards, fro.m a tendon in the middle.iQiap. XXX. ON THE THIGH. 357 Infertedy tendinous, into the upper part of the patella, from which a thin tendon runs down, on the fore part of this bone, to terminate in a thick ftrong ligament, which is fent off from the inferior part of the patella, and infer- ted into the tubercle of the tibia. life. To extend the leg, and in a powerful manner, by the intervention of the patella, like a pully. Rs^uSy five Gmrilis anteriory Winflow. 2. Vastus Externus, ArifeSy broad, tendinous and flefliy, from the root of the trochanter major, and upper part of the linea afpera, its origin being continued from near the infertion of the gluteus minimus, the whole length of the linea afpera, by flefliy fibres which run obliquely forwards to a middle ten- don, where they terminate. Inferted into a large fliare of the upper part of the pa- tella; and part of it ends in an aponeurofis, which’is con- tinued down to the leg, and in its palTage is firmly fi.xed to the head of the tibia. Ufe. To extend the leg. 3. Vastus Internus, JinfeSy tendinous and flefhy from between the fore-part of the os femoris and root of the trochanter minpr, and from almofl all the infide of the linea afpera, by fibres running obliquely forwards and downwards. Infertedy tendinous, into the upper and infide of the patella, continuing flefliy lower than the vaflus externus Part of it likewife ends in an aponeurofis continued down to' the leg, and fixed in its pafTage to the upper part of the tibia. Ufe. To extend the leg, 4* C R u-Part It. 3S3 OF THE MUSCLES 4, Cruralis, Arifesy flefhy, from between the two trochanters of tiie os femoris, but nearer the minor, and firmly adhering to mofl of the fore-part of the os femoris, and connefled to both vafti mufcles. Ittferiedy tendinous, into the upper part of the patella, behind the reiSlus. y Ufe. To afllft in the extenfion of the leg. Cruralisy Albinus. iV. B. Thefe four mufcles beforsy being inferted into the patella, have the fame eflFecl upon the leg, as if they were immediately! inferted into it, by means of the llrong ten- don, or rather ligament, which is fent olF from the infe- rior part of the patella to the tibia. Behind are. 1. Semite NDiNosus, ArifeSy tendinous and flefhy, in common with the long head of the biceps, from the pofterior part of the tubero- fity of the os ifehium; and fending down a long roundifh tendon, which ends flat, is Inferted into the infide of the ridge of the tibia, a little 'below its tubercle. Ufe. To bend the leg backwards and a little inwards. Scmliicrvofusy Winflow and Douglas.' w 2. Semimembranosus, ArifeSy tendinous from the upper and pofterior part of the tuberoiity of the os ifehium, fends down a broad flat tendon, which ends in a flefliy belly, and, in its defeent, runs at firft on the fore-part of ,the biceps, and, lower, be- tween it and the femitendinofus. Infertcdy <'Chap. XXX. ON THE' THIGH. 359 Inferted, tendinous, into the inner and back part of the head of the tibia. -life. To bend the leg, and bring it directly backwards. N. B, The two laft form what is called the inner ham~ firing. 3, Biceps Flexor Cruris, jdrifes^ by two diftinifl: heads. The firfl, called longus, arifes, in common with the femitendinofus, from the upper and pofterior part of the tuberofity of the os ifehium. The fecond, called brevis', arifes from the linea afpera, a little below the termination of the gluteus rnaximus, by a flefhy acute beginning, which foon grows broader as it defeends to join with the firfl head, a little above the external con- dyle of the os femoris. Inferted, by a ftrong' tendon, into the upper part of the head of the fibula. Ufe. To bend the leg. Biceps cruris, Albinus. . Biceps, Window and Douglas. N. B. This mufcle forms what is called the outer hunt' firing; and between it and the inner, the nervus popliteus, and arteria and vena poplltea, are fituated. 4. Popliteus, Arifes, by a round tendon, from the lower and back part of the external condyle of the os femoris then runs over the ligament that involves the joint, firmly adhering to it, and part of the femilunar cartilage. As it runs over the joint, it becomes flefliy, and the fibres run obliquely inwards, being covered with a thin tendinous membrane. Inferted, broad, thin, and flefliy, into a ridge at the up- per and Internal edge of the tibia, a little below its head. Uje. To aflift in bending the leg, and to prevent the cap- ■ ^ fular' OF THE MUSCLES Part II. 360 fular ligament from being pinched. After the leg is bent, this mufcle ferves to roll it inwards. CHAP. XXXI. Muscles ftuated on the L e g. ^ ^ ^IIESE are called Mufdes of the Foot ; and may be di- vided into two clajps, viz. Fxtenfors and Flexors oC the Foot. 2. Common Extenjors and Flexors of the Foesi F'lrjl Clafs, I / Extenfofs. Thcfe confiil; of three-: 1. Gastrocnemius Externu 5y/eu G emellus, Jrlfest by two di(lin£t heads. The firfl; head arifes from the upper and back part of the internal condyle of the os femoris, and from that bone, a little above its condyle, by two dillinfl tendinous origins. The fecond head arifes ten- dinous from the upper and back part of the external con- dyle of the os femoris. A little below the joint, their flefliy bellies unite in a middle tendon ; and, below the » middle of tlie tibia, it fends off a broad thin tendon, which joins a little above the extremity of the tibia with the ten- don of the follow'irrg. 2. S o 1, E u s, Gastrocnemius Internus, drtfes by two origins. The firfl is from the upper and back part of the head of the fibula, continuing to receive rnanj^OF THE LEG. Chap. xxxr. 361 many of its flefliy fibres from the pofterlor part of that bone for fome fpace below its head. The other origin be- gins from the pollerior and upper part of the middle of the tibia 5 and runs Inwards along the inferior edge of the popliteus towards the inner part' of the tibia, from which it receives flefliy fibres for fome way dovyn. The flefli of this mufcle, covered by the tendon of the gemellus, runs down near as fai as the extremity of the tibia; a little a- bove which the tendons of both gaftrocnemii unite, and form a ftrong round chord, which is called tendo Achillis, Infertedy into the upper and poftenor part of the os cal- cis \ by the projeftion of which the tendo Achillis is at a confiderable dillance from the tibia. _Ufe. To extend the foot, by bringing it backwards and downwards. ' Gemellus and Soleus, Albinus. Gaflroctiemii and Soleus, Winflow. Extenfor tarji furalis, vel Extenjor magnus, Douglas. 3. Plantaris, ■Arifes, thin and flefliy, from the upper and back part of the root of the external condyle of the os femoris, near l;he inferior extremity of that bone, adhering to the ligament that involves the joint in its defcent. Ic pafles along the fecond origin of the foleus, and under the gemellus, whtjre it fends off a long, flender, thin tendon, which comes from between the great extenfors, i)vhere they join tendons; then runs down by the infide of the tendo Achillis. Inferted into the infide of the pollerior part of the os calcis, below the tendo Achillis. life. To aflill the former, and to pull the capfular liga- ment of rhe knee from between the bones. It feems like- wife to aflill in rolling the foot inwards. •Tibialis gracUis, vulgo Plantaris, Winflow. Extenfor tarft minor, vulgo Plantaris, Douglas. VOL. I. Z z N.B.Part ir. 362 ' OF THE MUSCLES M B. This mufcle has been fometimes found wanting on both fides. Flexors: Thefe confift of four; two that belong to the tibia, and two to the fibula. I. Tibialis Amtic us, Arifes, tendinous and flefliy, from the middle of that procefs of the tibia, to which the fibula is connefted a- bove; then it runs down flelhy on the outfide of the ti- bia j from which, and the upper-part of the interofleous ligament, it receives a number of difUnfl flefliy fibres; near the extremity of the tibia, it fends off a ftrong round ten- don, which paflTes under part of the ligamentum tarfi an- nulare near the malleolus internus. Infertedy tendinous, into the in fide of the os cunelforme ' internum, and pofterior end of the metatarfal bone that fuftains the great toe. Ufe. To bend the foot, by drawing It upwards, and, at the fame time, to turn the toes inwards. 2. Tibialis Posticus, ArtfeSi by a narrow flefliy beginning, from the fore -and upper part of the tibia, juft under the procefs which joins it to the fibula; then p illing through a perforation in the upper part of the interolTcous ligament, it continues its o- rigin from the back part of the fibula next the tibia, and from near one half of the upper-part of the laft named bone; as alfo, from the interofleous ligament, the fibres running towards a middle tendon, which fends off a round one lliat pafles in a groove behind the malleolus internus. InferteiChap. XXXI. 3^3 OF THE LEG. ^Inferted^ tendinous, into the upper and inner part of the os naviculare, being further continued to the os cuneifor- me internum and medium; befides, it gives fome tendinous filaments to the os calcis, os cuboides, and to the root of the metatarfal bone that fuftains the middle toe. Ufe. To extend the foot, and to turn the toes inwards. 3. Peroneus Longus, ' ■^rifes, tendinous and flefiiy, from the fore-part of the head of the perone, or fibula, the fibres running ftraight down; alfo from the upper and external part of the fibu- la, where it begins to rife into a round edge; as alfo, from the hollow between that and its anterior edge, as far down as to reach within a hand’s breath of the ankle, by num- ber of flefhy fibres, which run outw^ards towards a tendon, that fends off a long round one, which palTes through a channel at the outer ankle, in the back-part of the infe- rior extremity of the fibula-; then, being relledfed to the finuofity of the os calcis, it runs along a groove in the os cuboides, above the mufcles in the foie of the foot. Inferted, tendinous, into the oufide of the root of the metatarfal bone that fuftains the great toe, and by fome tendinous fibres in the os cuneiforme internum. Ufe, To move the foot outwards, and to extend it a little. Peroneus maxinius, vulgo Peroneus pofleriory Winflow. Peroneus primusi feu Pojhcus, Douglas.’ 4. Peroneus Brevis, ' Arifesy by an acute flefhy beginning, from above the middle of the external part of the fibula; from the outer fide of the anterior fpine of this bone; as alfo, from its round edge externally, the fibres running obliquely out- wards towards a tendon on its external fide; it fen^ls off a Z z 2 roundOF THE MUSCLES Part II. 3*54 round tendon which pafles through the groove at the out- er ankle, being there included under the fame ligament with that of the preceding mufcle ; and a little’ farther, it runs through a particular one of its'own. ^ Jnferted, tendinous, into the root and external part of the metatarfal bone that fuftains the little toe. Ufe. To affift the former in pulling the foot outwards, and extending it a little. Peroneus medius, vulgo Peroneus antlcus^ Win flow. Peroneusfecuiidus^ feu Douglas. Second Clafs. Connhon Extenfors. I Thefe confifl of two. I. Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis, Arife: tendinous and flelhy, from the upper and outer, part of the head of the tibia, and from the head of the fi- bula where it joins with the tibia, and from the interofle- ous ligament; alfo from the tendinous fafcia, which co- vers the upper and outfide of the leg by a number of flefhy fibres; and tendinous and flefliy, from the anterior fpinc of the fibula, almoft its whole length, where it is infepa- rable from the peroneus tertius. It fplits into four round tendons, under the ligamentum tarfi annulare. Inferted, by a flat tendon, into the root of the firfl. joint of each of the four fmall toes; and is expanded over t^ie upper fide of the toes, as far as the root of the laft joint. Ufe. To extend all the joints of the four fmall toes- Jlxtcnfor longus, Douglas. N, B. A portion of this mufcle, which ^rifeStOF THE LEG. 365 Chap. XXXI. Inferted Arifes^ from the middle of the fibula, continues down to near its inferior extremity, and fends its fleftiy fibres for- wards to a tendon, which pafles under the annular liga- ment, and is Inferted into the root of the metatarfal bone that fuftains the little toe: it is called by Albinus Peroneus tertius; and by others, the Nonas Vefalii. life. To aflift in bending the foot. 2. Extensor Brevis Digii*orum Pedis. I Arijesy flefhy and tendinous, from the fore and upper .part of the os calcls*; and foon forms a flefiiy belly, divi- fible into four portions, which fends off an equal number of tendons that pafs over the upper part of the foot,"* under the tendons of the former. Infertedy by four flender tendons, into the tendinous ex- panfion from the extenfor lorigus, which covers the fmall toes, except the little one ; alfo into the tendinous expan- fion from the extenfor pollicis that covers the upper part of the great toe. life. To extend the toes. Extenfor brevis, Douglas. Flexors. Thefe may be reckoned three. ! I, Flexor Brevis Digitorum Pedis, Sudli- Mis Perforatus, Arlfes, by a narrow flefiiy beginning, from the Inferior and pofterior part of a protuberanee of the os calcis, be- tween the abdudors of the great and little toes ; foon forms a thick flefiiy belly, which fends off four tendons that fplit for the paffage of the flexor longus.366 OF THE MUSCLES Part II. Itiferted Itiferted into the fecond phalanx of the four lefler toes. The tendon of the little toe is often wanting. life. To bend the {econd joint of the roes. Perforatusy feu Sublimisy Douglas, 0 2. Flexor Longus Digitorum Pedis, Pro-^ FUNDUS, Per F ORAN s, Arifes, by an acute tendon, which foon becomes flefhy, from the back part of the tibia, fome way below its head, near the entry of the medullary artery ; which beginning, is continued dow'n the inner edge of this bone by fhort flefliy fibres, ending in its tendon ; alfo by tendinous and flefhy fibres, from the outer edge cf the tibia; and be- tween fins double order of fibres the tibialis pofiicus muf- cle lies inclofed. Having palTed under two annular liga- ments, it thefi pafles through a Cnuofity at the infide of the os calcis; and, about the middle of the foie of the foot, divides into four tendons, which pafs through the flits of- the perforatus ; and, juft before its divifion, it receives a confiderable tendon from that of the flexor pollicis longus. Itiferted into the extremity of the laft joint of the four lefllr toes. Ufe. To bend the laft joint of the toe^. This niufcle is aflifted by the Flexor Digitorum Accessorius, feu M a s s a Carnea Jacobii Sylvii. Arfes, by a thin fldhy origin, from moft part of the fi- nuofity at the infide of the os calcis, which is continued forwards, for fome fpace on the fame bone; alfo by a thin tendinous beginning, from before the tubeiofity of the oa calcis externaily j and, foon becoming all flefhy, isI Chnp.XXXI. OF THE LEG. 367 Inferted into the tendon of the flexor longus, juft at its divifion into four tendons. JJfe. To aflift the flexor longus. 3. Lumbricale^s Pedis, jdy'ifey by four tendinous and flefliy beginnings, from the tendon of the flexor profundus, juft before its diviflon, near the infertion of the mafia carnea. Inferted, by four flender tendons, into the infide of the firft joint of the four lefTer toes, and are loft in the tendi- nous expanfion that is fent from the extenfors to cover the upper part of the toes. Ufe. To increafe the flexion of the toes, and to draw them inwards. CHAP. XXXII. ' Muscles ’which are chiefly fituated on F o 0 T. I / ^ I ^HESE may be divided into the mufcles of the great toe, of tire little toe, and of the metatarjal hones. I Mufcles of the great toe. .. Thefe are five; 1. Extensor Proprius Pollicis Pedis, ■trifles, by an acute, tendinous, and flefliy beginning, fome way below the head and anterior part of the fibula, along which it runs to near its lower extremity, connetfted to^68 OF THE MUSCLES Part II. Infertedy to it by a number of flefliy fibres, which defcend obliquely towards a tendon, Injerted^ tendinous, into the pofterior part of the firft and laft joint of the great toe. Ufe. To extend the great toe. Extenfor knguSy Douglas 2. Flexor LongusPolliCis Pedis, Arifesy by an acute, tendinous, and flefhy beginning, from the pofterior part of the fibula, fome way below its head, being continued down the fame bone, almoft to its inferior extremity, by a double order of oblique flefhy fi- bres ; its tendon pafles under an annular ligament at the inner ankle. Inferted into the laft joint of the great toe, and generally fends a fmall tendon to the os calcis. Ufe» To bend the laft joint of this toe« Flexor longuSy Douglas. ^ 3. Flexor Brevis Pollicis Pedis, ArifeSy tendinous, from the under and fore-part of the os calcis, where it joins with the os cuboides, from the os cuneiforme externum, and is infeparably united with the abdu£tor and adduftor pollicis. Inferted into the external os fefamoideum and root of the firft joint of the great toe. Ufe. To bend the firft joint. 4. Abductor Pollicis Pedis, • ArifeSy flefliy, from the infide of the root of the protu- berance of the os calcis, where it forms the heel; and ten- dinous from the fame bone, where it joins with the os na- viculafe.Infe tied VoL. I. 3 A Chap. XXXII. ' OF THE FOOT. 3^9 Inferted^ tendinous, into the^ internal os fcfamoldeum, and root of the firft joint of the great toe. Ufa. To pull the great toe from the reft. thenar. Window. 5. Adductor Pollicis Pedis, Arifes, by a long thin tendon, from the os calcis, from the os cuboides, from the os- cunelforme externum, and from the root of the metatarfal bone of the fecond toe.' V I r Inferted into the external os fefamoideum, and root of the metatarfal bone of the great toe. life. To bring this toe nearer the reft. Antithenar, Winflow. Mufcles of the little toe. , . ' ✓ \ Thefe, befides the common eictenfors and flexors, afP two, viz. I ' I. Adductor Minimi,Digiti Pedis. Arifes, tendinous and flefhy, from the femicircular edge of a cavity on the inferior part of the protuberance of the os calcis, and from the root of the metatarfal bone of the li'ttle toe. Inferted into the root of the firft joint of the little toe ex- ternally'. Ufe. To draw the little toe outwards from the reft. Parathenar major^ and Metaiarjensy Winflow. 2. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digi’ti PeIjis, Arifes, tendinous, from the os' cuboides, near the ful- cus or furrow for lodging the tendon of the peroneus lon- ->gus ; flefliy from the outfide of the metatarfal bone that fuftains this toe, below' its protuberant part.I Inferted, OF THE ^MUSCLES Part II. 37a Inferted into the anterior- extremity of the metatarfal bone, and root of the firft joint of this toe. ’ Ufe. To bend this toe ' Paraihenar\ minory Window. . . ’ Mufcles from'the metatarfal bones. ’ - Thefe are four external and three internal interolTeiy and one mufcle which is common to all the metatarfal bones. Interojffei Pedis externiy Bicipites* ' . I • I Abductor IndicisPedis, ArifeSy tendinous aftd fle(liy, by two origins, from the root of the infide of the metatarfal bone> ^-the fore toe, from the outfide of the root of the metatarfal bone of the great toe, and from the os cuneiforme internum. ^ Inferted, tendinous, into thd infide of the root of the hrft joint of the fore toe. Ufe. To pull the fore toe inwards from the reft of the fmall toes. 2. Abductor InBicis Pedis, Arifes, tendinous and flefliy, from the roots of the me- tatarfal bones of the fore and fecond toe. t Inferted, tendinous into the outfide of the root of the flrft joint of the fore toe. Ufe. To pull the fore toe outwards towards thcTeft. I ' r 3. Adductor Medii Digiti Pedis, Arifes, tendinous and flelhy, from the roots of the meta- taVfjd bones of the fecond and third toes.The 3 A 2 I Chap. XXXII. OF THE FOOT. 371 infertedy tendinous, into the outfide of the root of the firft joint of the fecond toe. Ufe. To pull the fecond toe outwards. 4. Adductor Tert-ii Digiti Pedis. ArifeSy tendinous and flediy, from the roots of fhe me- tatarfal bones of thd third and little toe. Inferted, tendinous, into the outfide of the root of the firft joint of the third toe. Ufs. To pull the third toe outwards. , ■ • Jnterojfd Pedis interni. 1. Abdu,ctor Medii Digiti Pedis, Arifes, tendinous and flelhy, from the infide of the root of the metatarfal bone of the middle toe internally. Infertedy tendinous, into the infide of the root of the firft joint of the middle toe. ' Ufe. To pull the middle toe inwards. 2. Abductor Tertii Digiti Pbdis, • I ArifeSy tendinous and flefliy, from the infide and infe* rior part of the root of the metatarfiil bone of the third toe, ' _ , Inferted tendinous, into the Infide of the root of the firft joint of the third toe inwards. Ufe. To pull the third toe inwards. 3. Abductor Minimi Digiti Pedis, ArifeSy tendinous and flefliy, from the infide of the root of the metatarfal bone of the little toe. « Infertedy tendinous, into the infide of the root of the firft joint of the little toe. t//f. To pull the little toe inwards. \37i 6f, the muscles, &c, ' -PartlL The mufcle which brings the extremities of the metatarful ' bones towards each other, is named ' Transversal IS Pedis. Arlfes^ tendinous, from the under part of the anterior extremity of the metatarfal bone of the great toe, and froiii the internal os fefamoideum of the firfl? joint, adhering x» the adduftor pollicis. ” Infert'edy tendinous, into the under and'outer part of the anterior extremity of the metatarfal bone of the little- toe, and ligament of the next toe. Ufe. To contradl the foot, by bringing the great toe and the two outermoft toes nearer each other. N,'B. The mufcles Ctuated on the' foie of the foot are covered by a ftrong tendinous aponeurofis, which is ex- tended from the os calcis tO the firft joints of all the tOes, and ferves to, preferve the fubjacent patts from- being com-j prefled in Handing and walking.( 373 ) o V MUSCULAR MOTION. , s Motion in the human body i3^ not performed by , one individual organ. In every animal and' vege- table fibre, even in hair, feathers, membranes, the cellu- lar texture, and in the humid mufcular fibre, in flrort, in animal and vegetable gluten, there is a contra£Vde or elaftic power, which preferves the fibre in its natural (late, pre- venting it'from being too much extended, and reftoring it again to its proper dimenfions, w^en the ftretching power is removed. This power never ceafes endeavouring to bring the elementary particles into the clofeft conta£l that the mechanifm of the part can admit. It continues even many days after death •, fo that fibres of a divided mufclc contrail: towards each extremity, leaving a wide gap in the middle. An artery, when cut, lihewife contrails itfelf in length. , This force may be called vis mortua, becaufe it conti- nues to be efficacious after death, and is different from the powers of life. In the living animal, indeed, it is foine- what brifker; for, both from cold and fear, the fkin trembles, grows harder,-and has-its papillse ereited ; and along with this hardnefs it contrails itfelf in length. A- gain, the cellular fibres are animated with this perpe- tual nifus to fhorten, always endeavouring to contrail themfelves. Hence, when the Ikin or any other mem- bran^SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. Partir. 374 brane is extended, as foon as the caufe of extenfion is taken off, it returns by a gentle effort to its former fhort- nefs. But it even fomevvhat refills the attempt to perpetual diftenfion ; and by a gentle, but continual, approach of its elements to pne another, it propells the contained fat, or wa- ter, or othey bodies accidentally introduced into it. The fame power alfo fee ms to limit the excretion of vapour; for the fibres an'd plates of the cellular texture being preternatu- rally relaxed, an immenfe quantity, either of fat or of watery humour, is depofited in that texture. And this de- bility feeras to be the principal caufe of a dropfy, The fame caufe being always efficacious, and at work in the heart, joints, and every where throughout the body of the embyro, brings into nearer conta£l the arteries, auricles, and ventricles; produces flexures; and contrafls the heart into the form qf a cone. The fame caufe, by an unknown or hidden power, feems to form the fliape of mod parts of .the human body ; and while it expels the gluten received into the cells, it brings the terreftrial particles nearer to one another, and gives the proper folidity, curvature, and fituation, to,the different parts. It is the nature of this power to adl continually by gentle but uninterrupted efforts. It is common for it alfo to be ex-, cited by poifons, in every membrane, fibre, and in the cellular texture but never by cutting or punefluring with a .fharp indrument. Thefe are the known properties of the red piufcular fibre. The flru£lure of this fibre, then, it is now neceffary for us to confidcr. By tlie'name of nuifcular or moving fibres in the human body, we call bundles of reddifh coloured threads, which perform all the motions vifible in the human body. When many of thefe fibres are colle£led together, and appear more evidently red, they are called a mufde. The ex- treme fimplicity ‘of the texture in thefe parts has been the caufi?OF MUSCULAR MOTION. 375 PartU. caufe of the obfcurlty in underftanding how a fraall fofc portion of flefli, can produce fuch ftrong and ample mo- tions as we fee in man, and more efpecially in the crufta- Cfous infefts. t In every mufcle we meet with long foft threads of fibreSy fomewhat elaftic, or extenfible, and almoft conftantly dif- pofed parallel with each other; and thefe,’'being furround- ed with a good deal of cellular fubllafrce, are by that fallened together into little bundles, called lacertitli; which \ are again tied together into larger bundles, by a more loofe cellular net-work, that contains fome fat; and between thefe we conftantly perceive membranous partitions and ftripes of the cellular fubftance removing them farther from .each other, till at laft a number of them combined together, either parallel or inclined, are furrounded with a more thin and denfe cellular membrane, continuous with that of their partitions; and this being again furrounded by a thicker plate of the cellular fubftance, parts the whole bundle from the adjacent flefti, and gives it the denomina- tionl of a fttigle or entire mufcle. In every one of thefe threads there appears a lefler feries of filaments, which, by oblique extremities, are cemented to others of the fame kind, forming together a large fibre *. The generality of the ipufclts but more efpecially tliofe which are inferted into the bones, have other fibres fixed to them; but thefe arc condenfed into a more flendcr,- hard, and fhining fubftance, of a filver colour, which has the name of tendon. When the tendinous fibres expand into a broad flat furface, they form what is called an apo- * Swammerdam, Lyonet, arid Roefcl, have elegantly painted the appear- ance of the mufcular fibres in frogs,^and other animals, which Lceuwcnhocck' Cowper, and Muyfs, -have (hewn in man. But their firufture is more par- ticularly deferibed and delineated in a fmall work by Profchalka, Dc OT/j'fi//<?n,publi(l)edat Vienna 1778.Part II. 37<5 SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. neurojii. The cellular texture which covers the whole .ten- don, is called its vagina or peath^ and refembles the coat of a mufcle. That flefhy fibres truly change into fuch as aire tendinous, fays Dr Haller, is evident from comparing a foetus, _iil which there are few tendons, with a child of fome years growth, in which there are many more ; and both with an adult, in which there are the greateft number. But Dr Wrilberg obferves, in oppofition to this, that many ten- dons are found in a foetus, ,which could not aflume this na- ture by mufcular a£tion ; as the tendo Achillis, aponeuro- fis plantaris, centrum diaphragmatis, &c. Befides, in va- rious parts pf the body there are tendons found without correfponding mufcles. ' Mufcles which are not inferted into any of the bones, have commonly no tendons, as the fphin£lers and mufcu- lar membranes of the vifeeta and veflels. But thofe com- monly end in long tendons, which arc required to pafs round the joints and heads of the bones, to be inferted in thofe extremities which are more moveable. In a foetus the mufcles are evidently inferted into the periofteum only; but in adults, where the periofteum is more clofely joined W'ith the bone itfelf, the tendons, being confufed with the periofteum, pafs together with that even into the foveolx of the bone. The tendinous .fibres, indeed, often lie in a ftraight Une ■with the flefhy ones, and are as it were a continuation of them. But in many parts of the body the flefhy fibres are obliquely inclined to* the tendon, and adhere to it *, and the tendon itfelf grows thicker in its progrefs by continual- ly receiving new fibres. This is.called a tendinous mufcle* Other tendons He in the middle between two plates of fibres, which are inferted on each fide of the tendon at angles obtufe downward i and tliis is caile<l a pennated mufcle*377 OF MUSCULAR MOTION. Part II. mttfcle. There are inftances of numerous tendons, pennated in different places, formed into one mufcle. There are alfo other methods by which the tendinous fibres are joined with the flefhy ones. Within the cellular tunic that furrounds the fibres, the arteries and veins, running In company with each other, are fubdivided into net-works. From the fmaller of thefe veffels a vapour is exhaled into the thinner, and the fat is transfufed Into the thicker, cellular fubflance •, from whence again they are both abforbed by the lymphatic veffels ; which can be diflIn£Uy feen both on the furface and in the fub- ftance of the mufcles. ' The nerves of the mufcles are flill more evident. They are commonly very large ; and enter by fo many branches, that fome anatomlfls have confidered the mufcular fibres as formed by them. Several arguments are now offered a- gainft this opinion : one of the ftrongefl is, that mufcles in the limbs of animals do not flirlnk, although the nerves entering thefe mufcles have been cut through for a confi- derable length of time. (See Monro's Ohfervations on the Nervous Syjlem). The nerves enter the mufcles in a way fomewhat fimilar with that of the arteries and veins; but it Is impoffible to trace them a great way among the flefliy fibres, for they at length depofite their harder covering, and become foft, and difappear before they can be traced to their terminations. The fabric of the leafl fibres, which are fuppofed to be the elementary particles of a mufcle, being invefligated by the mlcrofcope in man and other animals, is found to be fimilar to that of the larger fibres, and they are all joined together by the intermediate cellular fubflance. The fur- face of thefe fibres, however, puts on a curious waved or zigzag appearance, as was formerly mentioned. This un- dulated appearance Profchafka thinks is nothing elfe than VoL. I. 2 B impreflions378 SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. Part ir. impreflions made by the veflels and cellular fubllance and perhaps by the nerv^es: but Dr Monro, in the work above quoted, has defcribed and delineated a fimilar appearance in the tendons and nerves ; and is of opinion, that they are to be confidered as folds or joints, ferving to accom- modate the parts to the different Hates of flexion and ex* tenfion. In proof of this, he finds, that thofe parts wdiich appear thus in their relaxed ftate, lofe it when they are much flretched. With regard to the nature of the ultimate moving fibres, there have been many difputes. Some anatomiils think them folid ; others, hollow, formed of a ferics of veffels or rhomboidal chains communicating with each other: Some, again, have been of opinion, that they are full of a kind of down or wooHy fubftance, &c. It may be afked. Whether they are hollow ? whether they are continued from the arteries ? or whether the dif- ference between mufcular and tendinous fibres, lies in the latter being rendered more denfe, and beat cloffer together by an expulfion of the fluids ? That thefe are not probable, appears from the minutenefs of the fibres, which are found lefs than the red-blood globules, and from the whitenefs of a mufcle after the blood is waflied out of it; to which add the phyfiological reafons, after mentioned, (p. 385.) And, in general, more ftrength may be expedled from a folid fibre. The flrufture of the tendons and aponeurofes agrees in fome refpefls with, but differs in others from, that of the mufcles. We obferve their fibres regularly difpcfed, and feparated by cellular fubHance and blood-velTels *, and with- out doubt they have lymphatics and nerves: but the ten- dinous fibres are clofler together than thofe of the mufcles, the cellular fubftance which feparates them is finer, their red veffels are fewer in number, and the nerves cannot be traced, without difficulty, into their fubftance. ItOF MUSCULAR MOTION. iPart IL 379 It has been doubted whether the. fibres of tendons are a I continuation of the moving fibres, or of a different nature. Many, both antients and moderns, have embraced the firft I opinion, others the fecond ; but if we confider that the ! tendinous fibres are not irritable, have no contraction, that they differ little from thofe which conflitute the ligaments, and that they degenerate fometimes into a fubflance truly cellular, we would be inclined to adopt the latter opinion. According to Ur Haller, a mufcle therefore is endowed at lead with a threefold force. Firft the vis mortua^ in common to it with other animal fibres. Another, which he has called the vii infita, and which has different phe- nomena from the former*. It is more peculiar to life ; and though it may continue for a few hours after death yet it difappears much fobner than the former. Again, in moft cafes, it acls by alternate ofcillations ; fo that, be- ing driven hither and thither, it fometimes conrraCfs the mufcle towards the middle j fometimes again it extends the mufcle from the middle towards the extremities, and fome- times alfo it has a reiterated motion. Moreover, it is ma- nifetlly quicker, and performs the greateft motions*. It is excited both by the pricking with a (harp Inftrument, and in the hollow mufcles by inflated air, by water, and every kind of acrimony, but moft powerfully of all by a torrent of eleClrical matter. Laftly, it is peculiar to the mufcular fibre, and is found in no other part of the human body with the qualities above mentioned. But we muft give a more particular explication of Its phenomena. It is natural to every mufcle to fhorten itfelf, by drawing the extremities towards its belly or middle. But to difeovev the moving power of a mufcle from the fabric which we have deferibed, it will be of ufe to confider the appearances obfervable in the mufcular contrablion. Every mufcle then 3 L 2 becomes * .See obfcrvati»ns on this fubjett in the fubfequent pages of this Chapter.380 Part II. SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. becomes fborter and broader in its adlion. But this con- tradUon of its length is various; in fome more, in others Icfs; and is very confiderable in foine of the fphincters, infomuch that they appear to be contradled more than one third of their extent. The inteftines are exceedingly tenacious of their vis in- fita, as they continue to contradl themfelves long after they are taken out of the body, and even after they are cold ; and the heart is even more tenacious of this principle than the inteftines, as is evident in a young chicken, and in cold animals. Different mufcles are beft excited into adlion by different ftimuli; as the bladder by urine, the heart by the blood, and the inteftines by air. Though the nerves are removed, or the connedfion, made by them between the mufcles and the brain, cut off, the mufcles lofe but little of their irritable nature. It appears alfo from the example of polypi and other infeefs, that the fame irritable difpofi- tion extends very widely through the animal fibres. In many of thefe creatures, neither brain nor nerves can be traced, yet they are exceedingly affedted by ftimulus. Laft- ly, we perceive this vis infita in vegetables, many of which expand and contradt their flowers and leaves according to the different ftates of the atmofphere; and fome plants exert fudden and violent motions from ftimuli externally applied, appearing little inferior in this refpcdl to animals. This vis infita does not depend upon weight, attradlion, or elafticity ; for it is feated in a foft fibre, and vanifhes as the fibre grows hard. That the caufe of motion is conveyed through the nerves into the mufcles, is certain from the experiments made on the brain and nerves. For the nerve alone has feeling ; this alone carries the commands of the foul; and of thefe commands there is neither intimation nor perception in that part, whole uerve is either tied or cut, or which has no_ nerve.Part ir. 381 OF MUSCULAR MOTION. nerve. Moreover, on irritating the nerve or fpinal mar- row, even in an animal that has been dead for fome time, the inufcle or mufcles which have nervous branches from thofe parts are mofl: vehemently convulfed. When the nerve of any mufcle is cut or tied, or the bafis of the fpi- nal narrow comprefled, or that part of the brain from •whence the nerve has its origin, the mufcle becomes para- 'lytic, and languillies, and cannot by any force be recalled into an a£l:ion fimilar to the vital one. But if the ligature be taken off from the nerve, the force by which the mufcle is put into a£lion is again recovered. The nerve being ir- ritated below the place where it is cut, the mufcle to which that nerve goes is contrafted. This appears from nume- rous experiments, efpecially thofe made on the phrenic and recurrent nerves. This force, called vis fiervea, is not the lame with the vis infita. The former comes to the mufcle from without: whereas the other refides conftantly in the mufcl6 itfclf. The nervous power ceafes when life is deftroyed ; the other appears, from certain experiments, to remain for fome time after death: it is alfo fupprefled by tying a ligature upon the nerve, by hurting the brain, or by taking opium. The vis infita fuffers nothing from all thefe circumftances ; it remains after the nerve is tied : it continues in the in- tellines though they be taken out of the body and cut in pieces: it appears with great ftrength in fuch animals as are deftitute of brain ; that part of the body is moved which has no feeling ; and the parts of the body feel which are without motion. The will excites and removes the I nervous power, but has no power over the vis infita. In the motiort of the mufcles, whether owing to the vis infita or the vis nervea^ the fibres are contracted towards the middle of their belly, and recede from one another outwards; they are alfo diverfified with various tranfverfe wrinkles»Part II. 382 SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. wrinkles: the whole mufcle alfo becomes fliorter, and draws its extremities towards the middle j hence it draws to- wards each ocher thofe parts with which it was connected : the mufcle alfo fwells by its contraction, becoming hard at tlie fame time, and as it were increafes its circumference on every fide. Haller has never obferved it to turn pale. Whether on the whole it is increafed in bulk, or acquires more in breadth than it lofes in length, is dilhcult to be known. It draws after it the tendons, which are obfe- quious to its motions, though of themfelves neither move- able nor irritable. The whole mufcle is alfo capable of be- ing moved at once, or only a' part of it; if one extremity }g fixed to an immoveable part, that only is moved which is capable of yielding. « If it be demanded, Whether the arteries conduce any thing to mufcular motion ? and whether the palfy of the lower limbs after a ligature upon the aorta, be not an ar- gument of this opinion ? w^e anfwer, No farther than as they conduce to the found ftate of the mufcle, or to the confervation of the mutual fbruffure and habit of the parts, which they fupply with vapour, fat, &c.: for the irritation of an artery does not affedl or convulfe the mufcle to which it belongs; nor does a ligature on it caufe a palfy, unlefs after a confiderable time, when the mufcles begin to be de- llroyed by a gangrene. Moreover, it is impracticable to explain the motion of peculiar mufcles from a caufe deri- ved with an equal force from the heart to all parts of the body. Laitly the influence of the will is confined to the nerves, without reliding in the arteries or other folid parts of the body. but the dire£t manner by which the nerves excite motion in the mufcles, is fo obfeure, that we may almofl; for ever defpair of its difcovcry. ! he opinion, that the nervous veficlcs fwell by a quicker flux of the nervous fpirits, is in- ^ conlillentOF MUSCULAR MOTIOJ^. 383 Part II. confiflient with anatomical truth, which demonftrates the lead vifible fibres to be cylindrical, and in no part veficu- lar; it is lilcewife repugnant to the celerity with which mufcular motion is performed ; and it feems to be com- pletely refuted by the well-known faff, that the bulk of a mufcle is rather diminilhed than increafed during its, ac- tion. Aeain, the inflation of rhomboidal chains in the fibres is equally repugnant to the celerity of mufcular mo- tion, and to anatomy; they would alfo occafion an Im- menfe wafte of ftrength, and after all render the mufcle but little fliorter. The nerves want that irritable nature which is obferved in the mufcular fibre, Finally, it is by no means demonflrable, that the fibres, from fo few nerves, can be fo numerous, or diflributcd in fo many dilFerent tranfverfe direflions, with refpedl to the mufcular threads, as thofe hypothefes require to be allowed. A complication of the nerves round the extremities of fibres, fo as to con- traft them by their eladlcity, is founded upon a falfe druc- ture of the mufeula.r fibre, fuppofing the nerves to be di- dributed, where filaments of the cellular fubdance only can be demondrated. _ Moreover, the phenomena of ani- mals, which, having neitlier brain nor nerves, are yet very apt for motion, apparently demondrate the intrinfic fabric of the mufcles to be fuflicient for their motion, without other affidance from the nerves. Other explanations, de- rived from fpherules of air in the blood, are founded on a falfe hypothefis, for the blood contains no eladic air. (See article Refpiration). The animal fpirits are not of the na- ture of an eledlric torrent. If we may add any thing to thefe phenomena, we may fuppofe the nervous fluid to be of a dimulating nature, by which means it forces the elementary particles of the mul- cular fibre to approach nearer to each other. The motive caufe which occafions the influx of the animal fpirits into the384 Part IL SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. the mufcle fo as to excite it into action, feems not to be the foul, but a law derived immediately from God. For ani- mals newly born, or newly transformed, without any at- tempt, or exercife, know how to execute compound mo- tions, very difficultly to be defined by calculation j whereas the foul knows not how to perform any actions until flie lias learnt, by making experiments, the methods of per- forming them. A mufcle then is contracted when in a given time it receives more of the nervous fluid, whether that be occafioned by the will, or by fome irritating caufe ftrifing in the brain, or applied to the nerve. But though w'e may fuppofe the foul to be the caufe of the nervous motion, we cannot do the fame with regard to that arifing from the vis infita. The heart and intef- tines, and alfo the organs of generation, are governed by a vis infita, and by flimuli. Thefe powers do not arife from the will; nor are they lelTened, or excited, or fup- prefied, or changed by it. No cufliom nor art can make thefe organs fubjecl to the will, which have their motions from a vis infita; nor can they be made to obey the com- mands of the foul, like attendants on voluntary motion. It is fo certain that motion is produced by the body alone, that we cannot even fufpecl any motion to arife from a fpi- ritual caufe, befides that which w’e fee is occafioned by the will; and, even in that motion wdiich is occafioned by the will, a flimulus will cccafion the greateft exertions, when the mind is very unwilling. There feems to be this difference between the mufcles o- beying the will, and thofe which are governed by a vis infi- ta ; namely, that the latter, being more irritable, are very eafily excited into motion by a gentle flimulus; as for in- ftance, the heart and intellines; which organs are mod manifeflly, and greatly, and conftantly, irritable. On the other hand, the mufcles, which obey the will, are neither endowedPart ir. 3S5 OF MUSCULAR MOTION. endowetl with fo great nor fo durable a power of this kind. Hence they either (land in need of the power of the will, or of a ftronger ftimulus *, when they are excited by a fti- mulus, they are animated to motion againfl the will. Thus it happens, that in apoplexies the mufcles which obey the M'ill languiOi, and become paralytic, as being diftitute or ^11 influx from the brain; while the vital mufcles, having no occafion for the operation of the brain, continue to be excited into contra£Hon by their ftimuli, independent of the will, as the heart by the blood, and the inteftines by the air and aliments. The ftrength of the mufcles is very conflderable in all perfons, but more efpecially phrenetic and robufl; men; fmce frequently, with the ufe of a few mufcles only, they •will raife a weight equal to, or much greater than, that of the whole human body. In a healthy man, very flen- der mufcles fuflice to lift 200 or 300 pounds. The mufcles of the back will even fuflain 3000. Notwithftand- ing this, we fee, that much the greater part of the force or power exerted by a mufcle is always loft without pro- ducing any vlfible efFe£l:. For all the mufcles are infertecl nearer the point or centre of motion, than the weights they are applied to; and therefore their aftlon is weaker, in the fame proportion as they move a fhorter part of the lever than that to which the weight is applied. Moreover, in moft of the bones, efpecially thofe of the limbs, the muf- cles are inferted at very acute angles ; whence again the cfFc£l which a mufcle exerts in aAion is proportionally lefs as the fine of the angle intercepted between the bone and the mufcle is lefs than the whole fine. Again, the half of all mufcular force is loft, becaufc a mufcle, like an extend- ed cord, exerts as much force at its fixed as at its moving extremity. Befides, many of tlie mufcles are feated in the angle of two bones; and when the joint is bent, the mufcle You L 3'C becomes386 Part ir. SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. becomes alfo bent *, confequent’y a quantity of force muft be firO; applied to ftretch the mufcle, before the mufcle can aO: on the bone in which it is inferted. Many of them pafs over feveral joints, each of which t!\ey bend in fome degree, whereby a lefs part of their remaining force goes to bend the joint to wliich they are particularly deftined- Ihe flefliy fibres themfelvts of the mufcles frequently in- tercept angles wuth the tendon in which they terminate; w ence their force is diminifiied in proportion to the fine of the angle of their infertion. Finally, the mufcles move their oppoferl weights with the greateft velocity and expe- dition, fo as not only to overcome the equilibrium, but likewife to add a confiderable celerity to the weight. All thefe Ioffes of pow’er being computed, make it evi- dent, that the force exerted by mufcles in their contraction, is exceeding great, and almoll beyond any mechanical com- putation. . The effeCt is fcarce one-fixtieth of the whole force exerted by the mufcle, and yet only a fmall number of thefe mufcles, weighing but a few pounds, are able not only to raife fome thoufands of pounds, but alfo with a confiderable celerity. Nor is this to be reputed any defeCl of wifdom in the Creator : For all thofe lofies of power were necelTary for ^ jull fymmetry or proportion of the parts, and for various motions and celerities in different direftions. But we may, however, conclude from hence, that the affion of the nervous or animal fluid is very power- ful, fince, in aii engine fo fuull, it can exert a force equal to fome thoufand pounds for a confiderable time, even for many days together; nor does this feem to be otherwife ex- , .plicahle, than by the incredible celerity by which the influx of this fluid obeys the command of the will. But how or whence it acquires fuch a velocity, is not in our power to fay ; it is fufficient that we know the jaws of its motion, are fuchjPart II. OF MUSCULAR MOTION. 387 fiich, that a given a£lion of the will produces a new and determinate celerity in the nervous fluid. There are various means by which the motions of the mufdes are rendered more fafe, certain, and eafy. The Inrgc long mufcles, by which the greater motions of flexure are performed, being included in tendinous capfules or ca- fes, drawn and tightened by other mufcles, are thus fecu- red and (Irengchened ; and thus the mufcle, in a ftate of con- trafiron, remains prefled againft the bone ail the time that the limb is bent, and confequently avoids a confidera'ble lofs of its power. The long tendons, which are incurvated or extended over joints in their motion, are received and con- fined by peculiar ligaments, which retain them within their fiippery channels; and in thefe flieaths a particular liquor is feparated for the lubricating of the tendons. Nature makes a fimilar provifion for thofe mufcles which perfo- rate others in their courfe. In other parts, the tendons are either carried rouml certain -eminences of the bone, in order that they may be inferred at greater angles into the bone which they move ; or elfe they are inferted into an- other bone, from whence a different tendon defeends un_ der a larger'angle into the bone to be moved. In other parts, the mufcles which are derived from convenient fi- tuations, have their tendons carried round in a contrary diredlion by nature, fo that they pafs into the part to be moved as it were round a pulley. Nature has likewife fur- rounded the mufcles on all (ides with a confiderabie quan- tity of fat, which is fpread alfo between 'their bundles of fibres, and alfo between the fmall fibres themfelves : w.hich fat, being prefled out by the turgefcence of the mufcles and fibres, renders them fofc, flexible, fiippery, and fit for motion. Moreover, the power and adfion of one mufcle is deter- mined by the co-operations or oppofitions of others, which . 3 C 2 ferve388 SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. Part II ferve either to hold firm fome part from whence the mufcle arifes, or to bend it together with the mufcle, or elfc to change its action from the perpendicular to the diagonal, by concurring to aflill its force at the fame time. Remote mufcles often aflin; each other, the fuperior mufcles keep- ing the bone, whence the inferior acllng mufcles arife, firm and fteady. Therefore, the a£fion of no one mufcle can be underftood from confidering it alone ; but all the others, which are either inferted into the mufcle itfelf, or into any of the parts to which the mufcle adheres, mult likewife be brought into the confideratiem. By thefe mufcles, varloufly confpiring and oppoflng each other, are performed walking, flanding^ flexion, exten- lion, deglutition, and all the other geftures and offices of the feveral parts in the living body., But the mufcles Have likewife fome common a£tions, by which they are of ufe to the whole animal. They haften the return of the venous blood, by prefling it out both from the veins of the mufcles themfelves, and from the veins which lie be- tween them ; for the blood in thefe vefTels, diftributed be* tween the turgid bundles of a contradted mufcle, is, by the valves, determined towards the heart: they likewife return the fat to the blood; and fhake, grind, or con- denfe the arterial blood, and return it quicker to the lungs j they contribute in a great degree to the fecretions and excretions : Again, in the liver, mefentery, womb, See. they promote the courfe of the contained blood, bile, and other juices, fo as to leflen the danger of their flagnation : they ferve alfo to increafe the ftrength of the llomach, by adding their own ftrength to it, whereby digeftion is pro- moted j infomuch that all fedentary and inaftive courfes of life are contrary to nature,, and pave the way to difeafes from a ftagnation of the humours, or from a corruption or crudity of the aliments* The large mufcles, wTich are generallyPart II. OF MUSCULAR MOTION. 3^9 generally placed round any of the cavities of the body, pro- pel the blood contained in that cavity, and prefs it towards the heart. By too much exercife or a£lion, the raufcles themfelves grow hard and tendinous on all fidcs; they ren- der the parts upon which they are incumbent, cartilaginous, or elfe change thofe which are membranous into a bony nature; they increafe the roughnefs, protuberances, and procelTes, of the bones which lie next to them, and exca- vate their flat parts; they dilate the cells of the diploe, and incurvatc the bones. , ' The mufcle which the ftimulus has ceafed to irritate, or for the action of which the mind has no occafion, is re- laxed, and grows foft; its wrinkles grow plain ; its fibres are rendered longer, receding from the middle towards the fixed extremities; and its fwelling falls. Whatever is the caufe of additional contradUon is then taken away ; but the vis Infita remains. It may be afked, What becomes of the fpirit that is fent from the brain ? A part of it perhaps exhales; a part of it may be fufpecled to adhere to the fi- bre ; and thus it happens that the mufcles grow ftrong with exercife, and their brawny parts become thicker. “ The three noted clafTes of animal powers, elaJHcityy irritabilityy and feiiftbility, Dr Wrifberg obferves, have been and are yet too much confounded, although it is no difficult talk to diftinguifh thefe afFedtions from one ano- ther. The elaflicity and cohefion of the fibres, which in different degrees, are found in every part of the body, was fully known to Bellini, Baglivi, Stahl, Pacchioni, Juncker &c. That power, known to Stahl’s followers under the appellation of tone, has no fimilarity to irritability, fenfil bility, and what is called vital power. It either alone per- forms the various a£lions of the animal and vegetable bo- dy, or adds ftrength and vigour to them: the former is mauifell in the motion of the ribs and cartilages ; and the latterSYSTEM OF ANATOMY. Part ir. 39^ latter in the conflruaion of the uterus, veflels, and mem- branes. It by no means depends on the vital powers, but may endure long after death ; it is not completely deftroy- ed even by putrefaftion. During life it is diminifhed by various caufes, and again rellored by feveral remedies. Ir- ritability, which Haller thought exUled in the fibres of the mufcles alone, and which indeed was known by name, but not in reality to Gliflbn, is a kind of animal power, un- known to earlier anatomifts, and is different from that power which Hippocrates calls It is proved, from the experiments of Lups, Haller, Fontana, Hoffman, and feveral others, to differ from elaflicity in its rife, duration, feat, caufes, effefts, and phenomena. We fliall add a few remarks: 1. It is mofl pov/erful in the mufcular fibres of the whole body, but not equ illy difperfed through all; more power- ful in the heart, mufcles of refplration, and inteflines, but becomes gradually weaker among the voluntary mufcles ; and it exifls -perhaps, in a fmall degree, in the velfcls and membranes, as appears from the doubts offered by AVhyte, De Flaen, Van Doeveren, &c. which Haller and the learn- ed Cigna have anfwered. 2. The phenomena of irritability, and the irritations themfelves by which thefe phenomena are produced, are not always the fame: In fome paits we conftantly perceive a manifefl irritability produced by every irritation, as is the cafe 4n almoft all the mufcles. in many other parts yop fee the greatefl inconftancy and very irregular effects> varying difl'erently, at different times, being fometimes in- creafed and fometimes diminifhed, at one time yielding to, and at another refifling the irritations: all which is evident .in the fidn, vifeera, vtffels, and iris. , 3. Tlie learned pathologi.ls Eller, Tiflbt, and Gerhard, ^have long ago acknowledged the great ufe of the cloiftrine ofPart ir. 391 OF MUSCULAR MOTION. of irriiabllity. It would be of mucli importance to know the remedies, which particularly conduce to excite irrita* bility, when it is languid, or to diminifh it when it is too great. Opium, and the other narcotics, camphor, can- tharides, acrid poifons, bark, the ele£lric fliofk fliew a clear influx of animal fpirits in the produdlion of irritabi- lity. 4. That It is dlfl'erent from the fentient faculty, and therefore by no means depends upon the nerves, appears partly from other reafons, and partly from tlie irritability of vegetables. Though T even willr to take into account fome phenomena of the dionsca mufcipula, according to Ellis’s obfervations, or of the hedyfarum or the antherx of certain other plants, I would be averfe to compare this contractile power of fome parts of vegetables with irritabi- lity, for the internal tremor of the conllltuent parts, which makes the particular character of irritability, is wanting in all vegetables; we fee contraftion and motion alone, which are alfo obfervable in other elaflic bodies, where we fup- pofe no irritability to exift. The fentient faculty, depend- ing folely upon the nerves, although it has been regarded as one and the fame thing with Irritability, has been more ftrongly oppofed by Haller’s opponents, De Haen, Whyte, Le Cat, Gerhard, 8cc. than irritability itfelf. The fenfi- bility of the parts is to be refen'ed both to the various quantity of the nerves, their fituation and (late, according to Haller’s and Cadell’s experiments, and to the various violence of irritation', and the nature of the irritating- or O offending body; for fome parts are frequently much af- fe£led at one time and lefs at another, and Haller thinks that fome of them may fometlmes be altogether infenfiblc. I fliall not repeat what has been often offered on the opi- nion, that a greater pain having preceded, abforbs a lefs pain follo-w'ing; thus we do not feel the tafte of a drop of wine if we have taken a very fmall quantity of redlificd alcoholPartlL 392 SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. » alcohol upon the tongue a little before. It cannot how- ever be denied, that in inflammatory difeafes, affedions of the mind, and other caufes, it may happen, that hurt parts Jnay feel, which, under any other condition, feem infen- fible. The vital power of certain learned men of later times, as Vanden Bos, Bikker, Gaubius, Albinus, & c feems rather compounded of all the animal powers com- prehended together; which opinion, except in fome mi- nutiae, the great Boethaave and Simpfon have more exa6l- ly adopted.’* % As the do£Irine delivered above, concerning the exlfl;- ence of a vis injita diflerent from the vis tiervea, has been the caufe of confiderable debate, and is at prefcnt called in queftlon by feveral anatoinifts, particularly by Dr Monro, ■we think it necelTary to "give a few objections as dated in his Obfervatlons on the Nervous Syftem. The chief expe- riment, fays the Doftor, which feems to have led Dr Hal- ler to this opinion, is the well-known one, that the heart and other mufcles, after being detached from the brain, continue to aCl fpontaneoufly, or by llimuli may be roufed into action for a confiderable length of time •, and when it ■cannot be alledged, fays Dr Haller, that the nervous fluid is by the mind or otherwife impelled into the mufcle. That in this inflance, we cannot comprehend by what power the nervous fluid or energy can be put In motio*, muil:, perhaps, be granted : But has Dr Haller given a, better explanation of the manner in which his fuppofed vis infita becomes active If it be as difficult to point out the caufe of the a£Hon of the vis inlita as that of the aClion of the vis nervea, the ad- mifflon of chat new power, inllead of relieving, would add to our perplexity. ^Ve Ihould then have admitted, that two caufes, of a j • different nature, were capable of producing exadtly the fame efled}393 Part IL , OF MUSCULAR MOTION. cfFeftj which is not in general agreeable to the laws of nature. We Ihould find other confequences arife from fuch an hypothefis, which tend to weaken the credibility of it. tor inftance, if in a found animal the vis nervea alone pro- duces the contradfion of the mufclcs, we will afk, what purpofe the vis infita ferves ? If both operate, are we to fuppofe that the vis nervea, impelled by the mind or living principle, gives the order, which the vis infita executes; and that the nerves are the internuntii; and fo admit two wife agents employed in every the moft fimple a£Iion ? But inftead of fpeculating farther, let us learn the effedls of experiments, and endeavour from thefe to draw plain con- clufions. 1. When I poured a folution of opium in water under the fkin of the leg of a frog, the mufcles, to the furface bf which it was applied, were very foon deprived of the power of contrablion. In like manner, when I poured , this folution into the cavity of the heart, by opening the vena cava, the heart was almoft inftantly deprived of its power of motion, whether the experiment was performed bn it fixed in its place, or cut out of the body. 2. I opened the thorax of a living frog, and then tied br cut its aorta, fo as to put a flop to the circulation of its blood. I then opened the vena cava, and poured the folution of opium into the heart ; and found, not only that this organ was inftantly deprived of its powers of ablion, but that in a few minutes the moft diftant rrrufcles of the limbs were extremely weakened. Yet this weaknefs was not owing to the want of circulation; for the frog could jump about for more than an hour after the heart was cut cut. In the firft of thefe two experiments, we obferve the fup- VoL. I. 2 ^ pofed394 SYSTEM OF ANATOMY. PartIL pofed vis infita deftroyed by the opium ; in the latter, the vis nervea ; for it is evident that the limbs were affeffed by the fympathy of the brain, and of the nervous fyftem in gene- ral, with the nerves of the heart. 3. When the nerve of any mufcle is firft divided by a tranfverfe feftion, and then burnt with a hot iron, or punc- tured with a needle, the mufcle in which it terminates con- trafts violently, exactly in the fame manner as when the ir- ritation is applied to the fibres of the mufcle. But when the hot iron, or needle, is confined to the nerve. Dr Hal- ler himfelf muft have admitted, that the vis nervea, and not the vis infita, was excited. But here I would afk two queftions. F'rrjl^ Whether we do not as well underlland how the vis nervea is excited when irritation is applied to the mufcle as when it is*applied to the trunk of the nerve, the impel- ling power of the mind feeming to be equally wanting in both cafes ? Secondly^ If it appears that irritation applied to the trunk of a nerve excites the vis nervea, why fhould we doubt that it can equally well excite it when applied to the fmall and very fenfiblc branches dnd terminations of the nerve in the mufcle ^ As, therefore, it appears that the fuppofed vis infita is deftroyed or excited by the fame means as the vis nervea; nay, that when, by the application of opium to the heart of a frog, after the aorta is cut, and the circulation inter- rupted, we have deftroyed the vis infita, the vis nervea is fo much extinguifhed, that the animal cannot a£f with the diftant mufcles of the limbs; and that tliefe afterward grow very torpid, or lofe much of their fuppofed vis infita *, it feems clearly to follow, that there is no juft ground for fuppofing that any other principle produces the contradlion of a mufcle, s \ AA SYSTEM OF ANATOMY, WITH THE PHYSIOLOGY. — — PART TIL i- CONTAINING EIGHT ANATOMICAL TABLES OF THE -HUMAN BODY; Exhibiting the Principal Parts of the SKELETON and MUSCLES REPRESENTED IN THE LARGE TABLES of ALBINUS.'< r TO WHICH ARE ADDED, CONCISE EXPLANATIONS. By JOHN INNES. WITH THE addition OF TWO TABLES AND EXPLANATIONS, EXHIBITING The DIFFERENCES between the MALE and FEMALE BONES of the PELVIS.TO THE MEDICAL SOCIETY. Gentlemen, i I Embrace this opportunity of exprcfUng my gratitude for the many favours I have received from you, both in your col- Itftive and individual capacity; but I am unwilling to offend* cither by encomiums on the utility of your inllitution, or by ex- hibiting the private friendfhips with which I have been honoured by many of your number. In compliance with your felicitations, I lately publiflied a fhort Defeription of the Human Mufcles, which has been fortunate enough to receive your approbation. It was, however, your o- pinion, that a fet of Tables would render the deferiptiona ftill more perfeft and ufeful. 1 have, therefore, caufed the following plates to be engraved ; and 1 hope they will not altogether dif- appolnt your expeftations. The Tables of Alblnus, though accurate and complete, arc not, perhaps, on account of their fize, the prolixity of the deferiptions, and the number of references, fo fully fuited to the purpofes of private difTeftion as could be wifhed. To remedy this inconvenience, I have copied eight of Albinus’s tables on a fmaller fcale. Two of them contain a fore and back view of the flceleton ; and the otlver fix are reprefentatlons of the mufcles. To each plate I have prefixed an explanation ; and I have a- Toided, as much as was confillent with perfpiculty, loading the figures with an unnecefTary quantity of referring letters. For this purpofe,’ I have all along made ufe of one alphabet only. To prevent the defacing of the mufcles, and to enable the lear- ner to diltinguifh them without the affiftance of references, the figuies are only lettered on one fide. If this little woik be of ufe in facilitating your anatomical ftu- dies, it will give the greateft pleafure to, Gentlemen, Your very much obliged humble fervant, and Fellow-member, JOHN IN N E S.'Iab. I.EXPLANATIONS \ OF THE SKELETON and MUSCLES, AS RFPRESENTED IN THE TABLES. TABLE I. figure reprefents a front view of the hu- man fkeleton, with fome of the ligaments and cartilages, which conned; the bones to each other. Head and Neck. Of Os fronds. k, Os parietale. Between a and b, part of the coronal future. The pars fquamofa of the temporal bone. Between b and r, the fquamous future. Below the pars fquamofa, the zygoma ; and, lower down above f, the maftoid procefs, Between the pars fquamofa and the cavity, which contains the eye-ball, called orbity the temporal procefs of the fphenoid bone is feen. 3 Os398 EXPLANATIONS OF THE Part IIL d, Os malse. Above o', a portion of the tranfverfe future. e, Os maxillare fuperius, with the eight teeth of the right fide. The nafal procefs of the fuperior maxillary bone has the os nafi joined, by the lateral nafal future, to its in- fide *, and at the outfide, within the orbit, the os un- guis. The olTa nafi joined to each other*before, by the ante- rior nafal future. fy Os maxillare inferius with fixteen teeth; the four ante- rior named inciforeSy the two corner ones caniniy and the five pollerior on each fide molares. Oppofite to fy the angle of the lower jaw; above /, the condyloid procefs, by which the jaw is conne6led to the temporal bone, at the root. of the zygoma ; and behind the os malae, the coronoid procefs. gy The feven cervical vertebrae, with their intermediate car- tilages. Oppofite to gy their tranfverfe proceffes. I Trunk. Oy Sternum. Oy its middle piece, to which one half of the cartilage that conne£ts the fecond rib, the whole of the carti- lages of the third, fourth, fifth, fixth, and one half of the feventh, are fixed. Above Oy the full or upper triangular piece, to which the clavicle and one half of the cartilage that conne£ls the fecond rib are fixed. I Below ay the extremity, or third piece of the fternum, named ccivtilago enjifortnisy to which one half of the cartilage that connedls the feventh rib is fixed. , hf The feventh, or lafl; true rib. r. TheSKELETON AND MUSCLES. 399 Tab. I. c, The twelfth, or laft of the five falfe ribs. df The five lumbar vertebrje, vvith theirintermedlate carti- lages. Oppofite to d, their tranfverfe procefles. e, The os facrum, with its five divifions. fy Os innominatum, divided into gy Os ilium, hy Os pubis, », Os ifchium. Oppofite to i, the foramen thyroideum. Superior Extremity. rt. The clavicle fixed before, to the firft piece of the fter- num, and outwards to the acromion of the fcapula. by The fcapula. Above b, the cervix of the fcapula. Oppofite to it, the inferior coda •, and below the outward extremity of the clavicle, the fuperior cofta, and co- racoid procefa, are feen. Cy The os humeri. The upper end of it, which is conne£led to the cavity of the fcapula, named glemidy below the acromion, is named its head or ball; on each fide of which is feen a tubercle, named external and internal; and between thefe, a groove for lodging the long head of the bi- ceps flexor cubitl. d, The internal condyle. e, The external condyle. Between d and e, the trochlea, upon which the ulna moves. f, The radius. The upper end, which moves on the external condyle of the os humeri, is named its head; below that, the tu- bercle400 EXPLANATIONS OF THE Part IIL berclc for the infertion of the biceps flexor cubiti, and between thefe the cervijt. The inferior end of it is connefled to the carpus. gy Ulna. The upper end of it forms the coronoid procefs for thd infertion of the brachialis mufcle. The inferior end has a procefs named Jiyloidy which b connefted to the carpus by a ligament.’ h, The carpus, formed of eight bones. ' iy Metacarpal bone of the thumb. iy The metacarpal bones of the four fingers. /, The two joints of the thumb. rriyThe three joints or phalanges of the fore-finger ; and the fame are feen in each of the other three. Inferior Extremity^ /Jr, Os femoris. The upper end of it is named its head or ball, which is lodged in a deep focket of the os innominatum, na-‘ med acetabulum^ Between the head and trochanter major, the cervix. b, Trochanter major. Cy Trochanter minor. d, Internal condyle. Cy External condyle. fy Patella. The place where it moves upon the os femoris, is hamed trochlea. gy Tibia. ' Between the tibia and the condyles of the os femoris, the femilunar carti|ages are feen ; and below the joint, the* tubercle of the tibia. hy Fibula. iy Malleolus internus. by Mai-I'AB.tlTab. II. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. 401 h, Malleolus externus. /, Os calds. Between / and ot, the other fix bones of the tarfus. vty Metatarfal bones of the four toes. «, The three joints, or phalanges, of the four toes. 0, Metatarfal bone of the great toe. p, The two joints of the great toe. I TABLE II. ''T^HIS Table reprefents the firft Layer of Mufcles fituated on the anterior part of the whole body, immediately under the common Integuments and tendinous Fafciae. \ Muscles Jituated on the Head and Neck. The anterior flefliy belly of the occipito-frontalis fituated on the os frontis. Above rt, the tendinous aponeurofis of the occipito- frontalis, covering the upper part of the parietal bones. h, Attollens aurem. Under it, the tendinous apoi^eurofis covering the tem- poral mufcle. Anterior auris between c and tlie. ear. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Its tendon is feeri at the inner canthus, fixed to the nafal procefs of the fuperior maxillary bone. Levator labii fuperioris alseque nafi. Seen divided into two portions running down along the fide of the nofe; and on the outfide of it, the levator anguli oris. VoL. I. 3 E Nest402 Part III. EXPLANATIONS OF THE % Next this, the Zygomaticus minor. Farther outwards, Zygomaticus major. On the ala and tip of the nofe, the Compreflbr naris. d, DeprefTor anguli oris. And beneath it, a portion of the depreflbr labii infc- rioris. e, Orbicularis oris. fi Platyfma-myoides. ‘ ✓ Behind /, the fterno-cleido-malloidaeus is feen through the platyfma-myoides. ' Trunk. - c, Pefloralis major. The upper part of it is covered by the origin of the plas- ty fma-myoides. bf Serratus magnus. The other portions refemble this. f, Latiflimus dorfi. d, Obliquus externus defcendens. «, Linea femilunaris. fy Linea alba. Belowyj umbilicus. ' Between e and f, the re£lus abdominis; and, at the in* ferlor part of the liiiea alba, oppofite to g, the pyra- midales appear through the tendons of the oblique mufcles. g, Ring of the external oblique mufcle ; with the fperma- tic chord, pafling through it^ and covered by the cre- maftcr mufcle. ' • S W r E- /Tab. II, SKELETON AND MUSCLES 403 Superior Extremity. M, Deltoldes. Above the clavicle, a portion of the trapezius is feen. b, Biceps flexor cubiti. At the bending of the arm are feen its tendon going to- . wards the radius; and the part, from which the ten- dinous aponeurofis that covers the fore-arm, is cut ofF. On the infide of the biceps, part of the triceps extenfor cubiti; and on the outflde, part of the brachialis in- ternus. t, Supinator radii longus. d, Pronator teres. e, Palmaris longus. fy Palmaris brevis. , On the palm of tTie hand, the aponeurofis palmaris is feen extended from the annular ligament at the wrift, to the roots of tl>.e metacarpal bones of the four fingers. gy Flexor carpi radialis. h, Part of the flexor fublimis perforatus. 7, Infertion of the flexor carpi ulnaris,. ky Abdudtor pollicis. Inferior Extremity. Tenfor vaginae femoris, the vagina or tendinous fafeia being cut oflF, On the outfide of it a portion of the glutaeus maximus. by Part of the iliacus intern us. On the infide of it, between b and c, part of the pfoas magnus. ' Cy Pe£tinalis. ^ dy Triceps longus. Cy Gracilis. fy Sartorius. 3 E 2 gy Re6fusEXPLANATION OF THE Part III. 404 g, Re£lus cruris. Its tendon is feen infened into the patella, from which a ftrong tendon is fent to be fixed to the tubercle of the tibia. Vaftus externus. i, Vaftus internus. K", Tibialis anticus. /, .Peronaeus longus. Ofi the outfide of it, a portion of the folaeus. w, Extcnfor longus digitorum pedis, with the peronaeus tertltis, and extenfor proprius pollicis pedis. «, Gaftrocnemius externus, feu Gemellus. 0, Solaeus. p, Ligamentum tarfi annulare. q, Abdudlor pollicic pedis. ■^Tr.,1.11 .... I .j- TABLE III. Table reprefents the fecond Layer of Muf- cles on the anterior Part of the whole Body. Muscles fitnated on the Head and Neck. a, Corrugator fupercilii. hi Temporalis. c, Mafleter. </, Levator anguli oris. e. Buccinator. f. Orbicularis oris. Oppofite to the right ala nafi, the portion of this mufcle which Albinus names Nafalis labii fuperioris. gi DeprcflbrN ^ \ TAB. lEL J).Xl£.krf Scnl|>*I Tab. III. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. 40S gy Depreflbr labii inferioris. h, Sterno-cleido-maftoidjeus, which is Seen below, arifing from the fternum and clavide, by two heads. i, Sterno hyoidaeus. On the outfide of it, the Omo-hyoidaeus. Further out, a portion of the Hyo-thyroidaeus, ky Levator fcapulae. Trunk. Oy Subclavius. by Peftoralis minor.' Cy Serratus magnus. dy Re£lus abdominis, divided into feveral flefhy portions by its tendinous interfe£tions. ty Pyramidalis. fy Obliquus afeendens internus. , gy Spermatic cord, with the origin of the cremafter mufcle. Superior, Extremity. Oy Biceps flexor cubiti. by Short head of the biceps. Beneath the upper part of it, a portion of the coraco- brachialis. ^ Beneath the under part, a portion of the brachialis in- ternus. Cy Long head of the biceps. » At the bending of the arm, the tendon of the biceps, and the place where the tendinous aponeurofis was cut from it, are feen. dy Extenfor carpi radialis longior. BeneathEXPLANATION OF THE 4o6 Part III. Beneath it a portion of the Extenfor carpi radialis brevior. e, Flexor fublimis perforatus. f, Infertion of the extenfor carpi ulnaris. g, Extenfors of the thumb. Opponcns pollicis. On the inffde of it, a portion of the Flexor pollicis brevis. f. Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis manus, after palTing through the flexor brevis pollicis manus. kf Abduftor minimi digiti manus. /, Flexor parvus minimi digiti manus. Ligamtntum carpi annulare. Inferior Extremity. a, Iliacus internus. Between a and b, part of the pfoas magnus. bf Peftinalis. f. Triceps longus. d, Gracilis. e, Re6lus cruris cut off near its origin. Tendon of the re6tus erurls jcut off above the patella, from which a ftrong tendon is fent to be infcrted into a tubercle of the tibia. I g, Portion of the glutaeus medius On the infide of it, part of the glutjeus minimus. b, Vaftus internus. i, V.afl;us externus. ' i, Crurjeus. /, Infertion of the biceps flexor cruris into the fibula. m, Tendons of the gracilis and femitendinofus inferted into the tibia. «, Solieus. 9, Pcronaeus longus. /», ExtenforTjVb . w. DJUitar t Sculp*SKELETON AND MUSCLES. 407 Tab. IV. /», Extenfor longus digitorum, with the peronseus tertius on the outfide, and extenfor pollicis proprius on the infide. Solaeus. r, Flexor longus digitorum. /, Tendons of the tibialis pofticus and flexor longus digi- torum pedis. Flexor brevis digitorum pedis. TABLE IV. Fig, I. N / '^T^HIS Figure reprefents the right Eye-ball, the fix Mufcles which move it, taken out of the orbit, with the Optic Nerve. fl. The eye-ball. if Optic nerve. Cf Mufculus trochlearis, feu obliquus fuperior. d, The trochlea, Cr pully, with a piece of the os frontis, through which the tendon of the mufcle pafles to- wards the eye ball. 6f Obliquus inferior, with a piece of the fuperior maxillary bone, from whence it arifes. f, Levator oculi. gf Depreflbr oculi. hf Addu£l:or oculi. », Abdudlor oculi. IEXPLANATIONS OF THE 'Part III. 4o3 Fig. 2. Reprefents the anterior Part of the Cartilage of the fight Ear, with its proper Mufcles. a, Helicis major. by Helicis minor. Cy Tragicus. . iy Antitragicus. Tranfverfus aurls, vld» Tab. vili. f g. 3. Fig- 3- Reprefents the third Layer of Mufcles, with fome of the Ligaments, Cartilages, and naked Bones on the anterior Part of the whole Body. fly Depreflbr labli fuperioris alaeque nafi. , ' by Orbicularis oris, after moft of the mufcles, which are fixed to it, and aflift to form it, have been taken away. Cy Buccinator. * i Above Cy part of the pterygoidjeus externus is feen pair- ing behind the coronoid procefs of the lower jaw. dy Levator labii inferioris. Cy Sterno thyroidaeus. Immediately above, and feemingly the continuation of it, the Hyo-thyroidajus. fy Scalenus anticus. . Contiguous to it, on the infide, the Scalenu.® medius. Above it, a portion of the Trachelo-maftoidccus. Between the fcalenus anticus, and fterno-thyroideus, and hyo-thyroidieus, the Rectusab. IV. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. Reftus capitis anterius major, and Longus colli. T R u N K. a, Third row of external intercoftal mufcles. The reft appear in the fame manner between the other ribs. bf Third row of internal intereoftal mufcles. The reft appear between the other ribs. c, Tranfverfalis abdominis. dy The place from which the inferior part of the tendon of the tranfverfalis, that paffes before the re£lus and py- ramidalis mufcles, is cut off. Between thefe portions of each fide, the peritonaeum is laid bare, and the ligaments of the bladder which were formerly the umbilical arteries and urachus. Between this portion and the os pubis, the fpermatic cord is feen cut. ty The inferior edge of the upper part of the tendon of the tranfverfalis, which pafles behind the retfus, and im- mediately adheres to the peritonzeum. fy The anterior lamella of the internal oblique, which joined the tendon of the external to pafs over the re£lus. Between f and s^, the pofterior lamella of the internal oblique, joining with the tendon of the tranfverfalis, to pafs behind the re£lus. gy The place at the linea alba, from which the tendon of the external oblique, and anterior lamella of the in- ternal, were cut olT. At gy Umbilicus. Superior Extremity. a, Subfcapularis. by Teres minor. VoL. I. Cy Coraco-Part III. • EXPLANATIONS OF THE 410 c, Coraco-brachialis. The part from which the fliort head of the biceps flexor cubiti was cut off from it, is feen at its upper end. d, Brachialis internus. ' e, Brachialis cxternus, or third head of the triceps, f, Extenfor carpi radialis longior. and with it t he extcnfor carpi radialis brevior. Both thefe are diftin£lly feen in the right hand. Between the tendon of the brachialis internus and ex- tenfor radialis, the Supinator radii brevis is feen. g, Flexor longus pollicis manus, with the flelhy portion of ' it which arifes from the internal condyle of the os humeri. Flexor profundus perforans, which fplits into four ten- dons, .which pafs under the ligamentum .carpi annu- lare. 7, Pronator quadratus. ' k, Adduftor minimi digiti manus. /, One of the lumbricales. The other three appear in the fame manner, along the tendons of the flexor profundus. Behind thefe, the internal interoflei are feen. Inferior Extremity. a, Glutaeus minimus. h, Iliacus internus. On the infide of it, between b and c, the pfoas magnus, Cy Obturator externus. d) Adduftor brevis'femoris. e, Adductor magnus femoris. fy Gracilis which is Seen ir.ferted into the infide of (he head of the tibia. gy The fhort head of the biceps flexor cruris. hy Petonaeus411 Tab. IV. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. hi Peronseus longus, t, Peronaeus brevis. Between thefe two peronaei and tibia, the tibialis pofticus is feen. k, Tendon of the tibialis pofticus, covering the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum pedis. /, Extenfor brevis digitorum pedis. Fi^. 4. Reprefents the Lavatores Ani cut off from the Bones before, with their conneiSlion to the Extremity of the Redtim, and Bulb of the Urethra. a, The urethra and its corpus cavernofum cut off. b, Bulb of the urethra. f, The circular fibres which furround the verge of the anus j* by fome named Jphin&er internus. d, The anterior edge of the levator ani, cut off from the os pubis, and fide of the pelvis. 5- Reprefents the anterior part of the Sphinder Ani, and Bulb of the Urethra. a. The urethra, and its corpus cavernofum cut. by Bulb of the'urethra.' Cy Left half of the fphinder ani, running obliquely up- wards, to join with the right half. iy The acute portion, which is inferted into the perineum. 3 F 2 Fig. 6.412 EXPLANATIONS OF THE Partin. Fig. 6. Reprefents the Corpora Cavernofa of the Penis, Cor- pus Cavernofiim Urethrae, Acceleratores Urinae, Tranfverfdles and Eredores Penis. a. Corpus cavernofum penis cut. b, Urethra, and its corpus cavernofum cut. " I ** f, Erc£Ior penis covering the crus. d, Tranfverfalis penis. e, Accelerator urinae. Tranfverfalis penis alter, running along the inhde of the left ere£tor. TABLE V. Epresents a Back View of the Human Ske- leton, with fome of the Ligaments and Carti- lages which connedl the Bones. Head and Neck:. a, Os parietale, joined to its fellow by the fagittal future. b The os occipitis, joined to the parietal bones by the lambdoid future, which is between a and b. r, Os malte. . ' df Maxilla inferior, with a view of the teeth of both jaws from belrind. e. The feven cervical vertebrx. Trunk. The feventh or lad true rib. ^ i, The twelfth or lad rib. Cf The/ D.l ^culp *SKELETON AND MUSCLES. Tab. V. 413 by The c, The five lumbar vertebrae. d. Os facrum, e. Os coccygis. I f, Os innominatum, divided into g Os ilium. h, Os pubisi. 7, Os ifchium. Superior Extremity. My The clavicle, joined outwards to the acromion of the fcapula. b, The fcapula. Cy Os humeri. d, Internal condyle. ^ ly External condyle. fy Radius. gy Ulna, its upper end, named olecranon; and near the wrift, its ftyloid procefs. • hy The eight'bones of the carpus. The metatarfal bone of the thumb. liy The metatarfal bone of the four fingers. ly The two joints of the thumb. »w,Ths three joints or phalanges of the four fingers. Inferior Extremity. My Os femoris. by Trochanter major, and at the infide of it the cerviY. Cy Trochanter minor. ' dy Internal condyle. / €y External condyle. fy Tibia. gy Fibula. hy Malleolus internus, i, Malleolus externus.414 EXPLANATIONS OF THE Part III. ly The feven bones of the tarfus. /, The metatarfus. nty The joints or phalanges of the toes. TABLE VI. Represents a Back View of the Mufcles which are immediately lituated below the common Integuments. Head and Neck. ' v «x. Part of the occipito-frontalis mufcle, with its aponeu- roGs. hy Attollens aurem. Cy Anterior auris. dy Retrahentes auris. Trunk. Oy Trapezius, feu cucularis. * ' by Its tendinous edge joining with its fellow in the nape of the neck, which is called ligamentuin nucha feu colli. Cy The flelhy belly of the latiflimus dorfi. dy The tendon of the latiflimus dorfl, which arifes in com- mon with the ferratus pofticus inferior. ty Part of tire obliquus externus abdominis. Superior Extremity. ay Deltoides. by Infrafpinatus, with a portion of the teres minor and major below it. Cy Tricepsr Aj^. w OLiinxx Scoi^*4ii 'Tab. VI. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. Triceps extenfor cubiti. Its tendon is feen inferred into the head of the ulna, cal-* led olecranon ; and, on the infide of it, the anconteus. d, Extenfor carpi radialis longior, covered by a portion of the fupinator radii longus; and, under it, a portion of the extenfor carpi radialis brevior. e, Extenfor digitorum communis manus, which fplits into four tendons, and pafs with the indicator, under the ligamentum carpi annulare externum, at the extremi- ties of the metacarpal bone, under ligaments proper to themfelves; and are loft in a broad tendon, which covers the back of the four fingers. f, Extenfor offis metacarpi pollicis manus. g, Extenfor priml internodii pollicis manus. h, Extenfor fecundi internodii pollicis manus. Extenfor carpi ulnaris. k, Part of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Under it, part of the Flexor profundus perforatus. And on the infide, part of the Flexor fublimus perforatus, which are more diftin£Uy feen on the right fore-arm. Likewife, on the right hand, are feen part of the abduftor pollicis manus, abducftor minimi dlgici manus, and the aponeurofis palmaris. Inferior Extremitt. <7, Glutaeus maximus. b, Part of the glutseus medlus. c, Part of the tcnfor vaginae femoris. dy Vaftus externus. e, The long head of the biceps flexor cruris i And beneath it, fy Part of the fhort head. gy Semi-I 416 EXPLANATIONS OF THE Part III. g, Semitendinofus: And beneath it, on each fide, A portion of the femimcmbranofus is feen, /j, Gracilis. On the outfide of it, A portion of the addudfor magnus is fecn. f, A fmall part of the vaftus internus, k, Gaftrocnemius externus, feu gemellus; And within its outer head, A portion of the plantaris. ' ' /, Solaeus feu gaftrocnemius internus. m, Tendo Achillis, with the plantaris. w, Peronxus longus. % p, Peronaeus brevis; between it and the tendo Achillis, a portion of the flexor longus digitorum pedis. />, Tendons of the extenfor longus digitorum pedis, with the peronaeus tertius pafling under the ligamentum tarfi annulare; and the flexor brevis digitorum pedis is feen beneath them. >»• f, Abduflor minimi digiti pedis; and above it the tendons of the peronseus longus and brevis, palTing under pro- / per ligaments of their own. TABLE VII. / 13 Epresents the fecond Layer of the Mufcles on the Back-part of the Body. • Head and Neck. , 0, Temporalis; its tendon is feen paflTing below the zygo- ma. b, Maf-T AJi. VIL . DX>ty«r* Settlp*'Tab. VII. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. 417 by Mafleter. ' Cy Splcnius capitis et colli. dy Portion of the complexus. e, Levator fcapulcc, feu mufculus patientlx. t Trunk, Oy Rhomboicles major. by Rhomboides minor; And immediately above it, the upper edge of the ferratus pofticus fuperior is feen. /, The ferratus pofticus fuperior on the right fide. dy Serratus pofticus inferior. By Part of the fpinalls dorfi. fy Part of the longifllmus dorfi. gy Part of the facro lumbalis. hy Serratus magnus. iy The broad tendon, by which the latiftimus dorfi begins, and from which the tendon of the ferratus pofticus in- ferior is infeparable. b, Part of the obliquus internus afcendens abdominis. /, The fphinfter ani, fixed to the point of the os coccygis ; at the fide of which the coccygaeus, and a portion of the levator ani, are feen ; and lower down, oppofite to Iy part of the tranfverfalis penis. Superior Extremity. a, Supra-fpinatus. by Infra-fpinatus. Cy Teres minor. > dy Teres major. ' Cy Triceps extenfor cubiti. y, Its head called longus. gy The brevis: And, VoL. I. 3 G hy A4t8 EXPLANATIONS OF THE Part IIT. A fmall portion of the third head, named brachialis ex- ternus. i, The tendon of the triceps, inferted into the olecranon. k, Part of the brachialis internus. /, Anconseus, which feems to be continued from that part 'of the brachialis externus immediately above it. w, Extenfor carpi radialis longior; and beneath if, the bre- vlor: both are feen at the wrill, inferted into the me- tacarpal bones of .the fore and middle fingers. «, Flexor carpi ulnaris. 0, Part of the fupinator radii brevis. p, Extenfor offis metacarpi pollicis manus. (], Extenfor primi internodii pollicis manus. r, Extenfor fecundi internodii pollicis manus. ff Indicator, inferted into the root of the firft joint of the fore-finger. r, One of the three external interoflei manus. The other two are diftin£lly feen without letters. Uy One of the tendons of the extenfors of the fingers cut; and the fame is feen in each of the other three fingers, joining with the tendons and aponeurofes of the inter- oflei and lumbricales, and fpread upon the back of the ‘ fingers. N. B. On the right h/nd, part of the flexors of the fingers, the abdudlor pollicis and minimi digiti, are ^ feen. Inferior Extremity. ' a, Gluticus medius. l>, Pyriformis. c, The two mufcles called geminiy between which the ten- don and fleftiy belly of the obturator internus pafles over the tuberofity of the os ifehium, arc feen within theTjib. VII. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. 419 the pelvis, partly covered by the coccygaeus and leva- tor ani. Quadratus femorls. e, Vadus externus. . ' f, f. Parts of the triceps magnus. gy Long head of the triceps flexor cruris, and beneath it part of the fhort head is feen. h, Semitendinofus, and beneath it parts of the femi-mem- branofus are feen on each fide of it. i, Gracilis. k, A fmall portion of the vaftus internus. /, Poplitaeus. m, The flefhy belly of the plantaris j and its long flender tendon is feen palling over the infide of the folaeus. «, Solaeus. 0, The place where the tendon of tlie gemellus was cut olF; but the flelh of the folaeus runs farther down." Tendo Achillis, with the plantaris. q, Pcronaeus longus, paflTing ?t the outer ankle to the folc of the foot; beneath it, the peronaeus brevis to the root of the metatarfal bone of the little toe; and, be- tween it and the tendo Achillis, a portion of the flex- or longus digitorum pedis. r. Tendons of the extenfor longus digitorum pedis, with the peronaeus tertius; and beneath thefe, the extenfqr brevis digitorum pedis. ^ _,y, Flexor brevis minimi dlgiti pedis. 3 G 2 TABLEEXPLANATIONS OF THE Part III. 420 TABLE Vili. Fig. I. I T^EpRESENTS the third Layer of Mufcles on the poderior Part of the Body, with fome of the LU gaments and naked Bones. Muscles on the ^ Id e a d and Neck. rt, Part of the buccinator. hi Complexus. Cy Trachelo-maftoidseus; on the outfide of it, the tranfver? falis colli. d, Scalenus medius. Cy Scalenus pofticus. Trunk. a, Spinalis dorfi ; and beneath it, the multifidus fpins. i>y Longiflimus dorfi, which fends off a flefliy flip to the trachelo-malloidseus. Cy Sacro lunibalis, with the cervicalis defeendens fent off «. from it along the fide of the neck, and outfide of the tranfverfalis colli. d, Semifpinalis dorfi. e, Tranfverfalis abdominis. N. B. The fpaces between the fpinous proceffes of the vertebrae have mufcular fafciculi between them, parti- cularly thofe of the neck; and are named interfpwa- Its colliy dorjty and luinborutn; but thofe of the back feem to be tendinous and ligamentous. S u- /Dl^xr.aes SctHlTab. VIII. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. 421’ Superior Extremitt. fly Teres major. by Part of the coraco-brachialis. Cy Part of the brachialis internus. d, The third head of the triceps extenfor cubiti, called brachialis extcrnusy after the longus and brevis have been cut off. ty Extenfor radialls longior. fy Extenfor radialis brevior. , g, Part of the flexor profundus perforans. h, Supinator radii brevis. i, Part of the adduflor pollicis manus. iy One of the three external interoflei; the other two may be eafily diftinguiflied without letters. 4 Tendons of the extenfors of the fingers, joining with thofa of the lumbricales and interoflei, which form a tendinous expanflon on the back of the four fingers. N. B. On the right hand, part of the flexors of the fingers and thumb, part of the adduftor pollicis, and the whole of the addudlor minimi digiti, are feen. Inferior Extremity. Ay Glutaeus minimus. by Obturator internus 5 its flefhy belly is feen within the pelvis. , Beneath by the tendon of the obturator externus. - Cy Scmimembranofus. dy The fliort head of the biceps flexor cruris. Cy Triceps magnus. fy Gracilis. In the ham, the origins of the two heads of the gaftro- cnemius externus and plantaris arc feen. gy Poplitaeus. hy Tibialis pofticus. iy FlexorPart III. 422 EXPLANATIONS OF THE I /, Flexor longus digitorum pedis. hi Flexor pollicis longus. /, Peronoeus longus, running down to be inferted Into th^ metatarfal bone of the little toe. Beneath it, the peronceus brevis, paflihg to the foie pf the foot. »«, Extenfor brevis digitorum pedis. Part of the flexor longus digitorum pedis. Fi^, 2. Reprefents the fourth layer of Mufcles on the pofterior , part of the neck. a, Reftus capitis pofticus major. bi Re£Iu3 capitis pofticus minor. c, Obliquus capitis fuperior. Obliquus capitis inferior. e, Scalenus medius. y, Part of the multifidus fpinx, covered by the femifplnalis colli. Between the fplnous procefles of the vertebrae, the inter- fpinales colli are feen double j becaufe thefe procefle* are bifurcated. , Between the tranfverfe procelTes, the pofterior row of the intertranfverfales colli is feen. 3- Reprefents a portion of the pofterior part of the carti- lage of the ear, to ftiew, a, Tranfverfus auris, t Situated on the parts oppofite to the antihelix and fcapha* , Ft's< 4‘‘Tab.VIir. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. 423 Fi^. 4. Reprefents an Outline of the Bafe of the Os Occipitis, and infideof the Lower Jaw; with a view of the Mufcles which furround the back Part of the Larynx and Pharynx. The upper part of the mambrane of the pharynx. l>, The trachea, cut. (7, The cefophagus, cut. ri',\The inner tranfverfe fibres of the cefophagus, laid bare. e, The outer fibres defcending obliquely backwards. f, Con(lri£lor inferior pharyngis. g, Conftriftor medius pharyngis. A, The cornu of the os hyoideus. i, Conftriftor fuperior pharyngis. k, The part of it which joins with the buccinator. /, Stylo-pharyngaeus. Fi^. 5. Reprefents an Outline of the Infide of the Os. Pubis, Os Ifchium, and Back of the Os Coccygis, after the Os Sacrum and Ligaments have been taken away with a pofterior view of the Levatores Ani, and Extremity of the Redlum, refembling the fliape of a funnel. > a, The anterior portion of the levator ani, viewed on its infide within the pelvis, aiiling from the os pubis and upper part of the foramen thyroiclaeum. b, Its origin froni the fpinous procefs of die os ifchium. Cy The pofterior part feen on its outer fide. d, ItsPart IIP EXPLANATIONS OF THE </, Its infertlon into the os coccygis, below which the flelhy fibres are continued with its felloyr. /, The circular flefliy fibres furrounding the extremity of ^ the re£lum, which authors name fphincler internus ftni. #77, The anus. Fi^. 6. Reprefents an Outline of the Back of the Os Coccygis ‘and pofterior Part of the Sphinder Ani. Oj The infertion of the fphinder ani into the extremity of the os coccygis ; to which, from by The anus, ' The fibres meet from each fide, in angles ; which are more acute as they point upwards. Fi^. 7. Reprefents the firft Layer of Mufcles on the Sole of the Foot, after the Aponeurofis Plantaris has been taken away. a, Abdudor polllcis pedis. lb, Abdudor minimi digiti pedis. c, Flexor brevis digitorum pedis, which fpllts into four tendons, that are perforated by the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum pedis. Between thefe tendons the lumbricales are feen. d, Tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. And beneath It, the flexor pollicis brevis. r, Tranfverfalis pedis.Tab IX. U.XiBAry .<‘rnli>5Tab. VIII. SKELETON AND MUSCLES. 42? Fig. 8. Reprefents the fecond Layer of Mufcles on the Sole of the Foot, after the Abdndlor Pollicis Pedis, and Abdudlor Minimi Digiti Pedis, and the Flexor Brevis Digitorum Pedis,' have been taken away. Tendon of the flexor longus digitorum pedis. bby Flexor acceflbrius, feu maflTa carnea Jacobi Sylvii. eccc^ The four lumbricales arifing from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. ddy Tendon of the flexor pollicis longus; which, in its pro- grefs, joins the tendon of the flexor longus digi- torum pedis. e. Tendon of the tibialis anticus. f. Tendon of the peronaeus longus. hf Flexor pollicis brevis, with a portion of the abdu£l:or pollicis, on the infide of the great toe. On the outfide of z, is the addudfor pollicis. k. Flexor brevis minimi digiti pedis. /, A ligament which fupports the bones of the tarfus. Before /, two of the interoflei are feen. my Tranfverfalis pedis. Epresents a front view of the Bones of the ^ Pelvis in a Female Skeleton. A, The five vertebrae of the loins. B, The os facrum. gy Tendon of the peronaeus brevis. T A B L E . IX. VoL. I. C, ThePart III. 426 EXPLANATIONS OF THE ' C, The os coccygis. DD, The offa ilium. EE, The ofla ifchium. F, The offa pubis. * GG, The foramina magna. KH, The acctabula. mil, The brim of the pelvis, or that circumference of its s cavity which is defcnbed, at the Tides by the inferior ' parts of the offa ilium, and at the fore and back parts by the fuperior parts of the offa pubis and facrum. / • In this table, befides the general ftrufture and figure of the feveral bones, the dimenfions of the brim of the pel- vis, and the diftance between the under parts of the offa ifchium, are particularly to be attended to; from which it will appear, that the cavity of the brim is wider from fide to fide than from the back to the fore part; but that the Tides below are in the contrary proportion. In general, the brim of the female pelvis meafures about five inches and a quarter from fide to fide, and four inches and a quarter from the back to the fore part, there being likewife the fame diftance between the inferior parts of the offa ifchium. All thefe meafures, however, muft be underftood to be taken from the Ikeleton; for, in the living fubjetSl:, the cavity of the pelvis is confiderably di- miniflied by the integuments and contents. / TABLE