(Blasgow Ipresente&Digitized by tlie Internet Arcliive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21471848_0002LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. PIANO, BROADWOOD'S GRAND—(JVow^wpieee to Vol. I.) PIANO, ERARD'S GRAND—(2;Vore«sf)iece to Vol. II.) To face page BEDSTEAD, WALNUT-TREE Vol. I. 86 BREAD-MAKING MACHINE, DR. DAUGLISH'S „ 153 BREAKFAST-SERVICE OF SILVER , 160 CRADLE, THE ROYAL , 295 CHINA, A GROUP OF DRESDEN 450 DITTO DITTO 450 FAN, A FRENCH Vol. II. 32 FAN, A ROYAL 32 FLOWER-STAND OF SILVER Vot,. I. 512 JEWEL-CASE, THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA'S Vol. II. 401 JEWEL-CASE, HER MAJESTY'S 401 LACE-MAKING „ 110 DITTO „ 110 LAMP, A FRENCH MODERATOR, WITH CANDLE BRANCHES 121 MANTELPIECE OF OAK-CARVING Vol. I. 296 STOVE, CARR AND ROBERTSON'S „ 498 STOVE, THE NAUTILUS „ 498 TEA-SERVICE, A CALIFORNIAN GILT Vol. IL 482 GLASGOW UNIVZnSiTY LiBRARYTHE HOUSEHOLD ENCYCLOPJ^DIA. GRA GRATE. See Ash Pit and Fieeplack. GRATEFUL PUDDING. Take lib of flour, and as much white bread grated; next beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs with a pint of new milk, into which stir the bread, flour, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, the same of currants, | lb. of sugar, and a little beaten ginger. Mix these ingredients well together, and either boil or bake the pudding. GRATIN. Cut i lb. of fillet of veal into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, a few mushrooms, parsley, shallots (chopped small), salt, pepper, and spices; stir them up with a wooden spoon, and when the meat has been on the fire about a quarter of an hour take the drain off the butter, mince the veal, &c., very small, and put it into a mortar, w;ith fifteen fowl or game livers, well washed, dried, parboiled, and all the bitter parts taken out, and pound them, adding at times as much panado as you have meat. Boil some calf's udder, trim and remove all the skin when cold, put in about one- third of the quantity of meat, and pound them together, adding one at a time three yolks and three whole eggs ; season with salt, pepper, and spices. When well pounded set it by in an earthen pan for use. • GRAVEL and Stone. A fit of the gravel is atteTided with a fixed acute pain in the loins; the thigh on the affected side is benumbed ; there is also nausea and vomiting, and some- times a slight suppression of urine ; and, as the irritating matter removes from the kidney down into the urethra, it sometimes produces such pain as to bring on faintings and convulsive fits. The symptoms of gravel often resemble those of inflammation of the kidneys ; but the reddish, brown sand deposition, or very fine powder of the same colour, seen in the urine on becoming cold, will show the difference. VOL. II. GRA When stones are formed in the kidneys or bladder all attempts hitherto to dissolve them have proved ineffectual, and the disease in males is only to be radically cured by the opera- tion of lithotrity or lithotomy. In females, however, stones of moderate size, as well as ex- traneous substances that have accidentally escaped from the urethra into the bladder, have been extracted therefrom by means of dilating the passage with a bougie. When the preference is given to a palliative mode of treatment instead of the operation, lithontriptics, that is, such medicines as have the supposed power of dissolving stones formed in the urinary organs, must be used to prevent the further increase of calculous matter, among which the fixed alkali appears to be the most powerful, used either in its caustic or mild state ; e.g., take solution of potass, from 20 to 30 drops three times a day in a tea-cupful of veal broth. The dose may be somewhat gradu- ally increased beyond this extent. Take car- bonate of soda, from 1 scruple to i drachm, twice or thrice a day. Or, take aerated potass, 2 drachms, twice a day, dissolved in half a pint of veal broth or distilled water, to which a tea- spoonful of brandy may be added, should it prove cold to the stomach ; or, in the event of much irritation of the urinary passages, a few drops of opium may be added, and discontinued when the pain ceases. Or, take soap pills, 10 grains for a dose night and morning; or, lima water, 1 pint daily, mixed with milk; or, soda water, i pint two or three times a day. In the acute fit of the gravel, where inflam- mation of the kidneys comes on, or is to be apprehended, bleeding, according to the age of the patient, should be early adopted, after which he should be put into a warm bath, and when taken out, flannel cloths wrung out BGRA C 2 ] GEA of an infiieion of emollient herbs, or bladders filled with warm water, should be immediately and constantly applied over the parts; also, emollient and anodyne clysters may he fre- quently injected until the irritation be re- moved :—Take compound decoction of mallows, or of linseed infusion, l2ozs.; olive oil, ^oz.; thicture of opium, CO drops. Make a clyster. A grain of opium may also be taken every six hours. In endeavouring to correct the secretion of urine in gravelly complaints, which is an object of primary importance, the patient should drink copiously of aqueous fluids which are known to possess diuretic virtues. Spring or soft water is preferable to pump water. Hence the Seltzer and Buxton waters have not unfrequently been used with much benefit in diseases of the urinary organs , and many have been relieved by using the garden leek prepared as follows:—Take a handful of the roots or fibrous parts of the leek, with a few sprigs of fennel, and boil them in two quarts of water over a gentle fire until one-half be evaporated; pour off and strain the remainder, of which the patient may drink a pint a day. GRAVIES AND SAUCES, INGRE- I),IENTS FOR. Browning for made dishes: Put into a saucepan 1 lb. of good brown sugar, stir it constantly over a slow fire, and boil it till it is as thick as treacle, and resembles it in colour; take the pan off the fire, stir it for a minute or two, and pour in very slowly a quart of boiling water, stirring constantly; put it again on the fire, and boil it a little ; pour it into a bowl, and when cold bottle it. This browning will keep good for a year, and very little of it serves for colouring soups, gravies, or sauces. To clarify butter. Put the butter, cut into slices, into a nicely cleaned brass pan, and stir it gently till dissolved. When it boils draw the pan to the side of the fire, skim it, and let it boil gently a second time, and if any scum again rises take it off; let it settle for two or three minutes, and strain it gently through a sieve which has a piece of muslin laid in it. Fresh beef suet, picked free from skin and sinews, is dissolved in the same manner. It is then strained through muslin into small jars, and when cold covered with bladder; or it may be strained into cold water, and the cake when cold wiped dry, folded in white paper, and kept in a linen bag. Beef suet will keep fresh for some time if finely chopped, dredged with flour, and kept in white bags in a cool place. Beef and mutton drippings are clarified exactly in the manner butter is done, and each kept in a separate jar. To melt hog's lard put it into ajar placed in a pot of water or water bath, strain it into clean bladders or small jars, and cover them with paper. Thus prepared it will keep a good length of time, and is the best thing for frying fish in. To fry parsley wash it, pick it clean, and put it into fresh cold water; take it out, and then throw it into boiling lard or dripping, when it will instantly become crisp. It is then taken out with a slice. GRAVIES AND SAUCES, OBSERVA- TIONS ON. It is of as much importance that the cook should kno^v how to make a boat of good gravy for poultry, ^c, as it is that it should be sent up of the proper complexion and nicely frothed. We shall endeavour to introduce to her all the materials that give flavour in sauce, which is the essence of soup, and intended to contain more relish in a tea- spoonful than the former does in a table-spoonful. VVe hope to deserve as much praise from the economist as we do from the bon vivant, as we have taken great pains to introduce to him the methods of making substitutes for those ingi-e- dients which are always expensive, and often not to be had at all. Many of these cheap articles are as savoury and as salutary as the dearer ones, and those who have lai-ge families and limited incomes will no doubt be glad to avail themselves of them. A great deal of the elegance of cookery depends upon the accompaniments to each disla being appropriate and well adapted to it. It will be to very little purpose that we have taken so much pains to teach how to manage roasts and boils if a cook cannot, or will not, make the several sauces that are usually sent up with them. We have, therefore, endeavom-ed to give the plainest directions how to produce, with the least trouble and expense possible, all the various compositions the English kitchen affords, and hope to present such a wholesome and palatable vai'iety as will suit all tastes and all pockets, so that the cook may give satisfac- tion in all families. Let your sauces each display a decided character. Send up j'^our plain sauces (oyster, lobster, &c.) as pure as possible. They should only taste of the materials from which they take their name. The imagination of most cooks is so incessantly on the hunt for a relish, that they seem to think they cannot make sauce sufficiently savoury without putting into it everything that ever was eaten, and supposing eveiy addition made must be an improvement, they frequently over- power the natural flavour of iheix plain sauces by overloading them with salt, spices, &c.; but remember these will be deteriorated by any addition save only just salt enough to awaken the palate.GEA [ 3 ] GRA On the contrary, of compound sauces the ingredients should be so nicely proportioned that no one be predominant, so that from the equal union of the combined flavours such a fine mixture is produced, that its very novelty cannot fail of being acceptable to the persevering gourmand, if it had not pretensions to a perma- nent place at his table. An ingenious cook will form as endless a variety of these compositions as a musician with his seven notes, or a painter with his colours : no part of her business offers so fair and frequent an opportunity to display her ability. Spices, herbs, &c., are often very absurdly and injudi- ciously jumbled together. Why have clove and allspice, or mace and nutmeg in the same sauce? or marjoram, thyme, and savory? or onions, leeks, eschalots, and garlic? One will very well supply the place of the other, and the frugal cook may save something considerable by attending to this, to the advantage of her employers and her own time and trouble. GRAVY. Take 3 lbs. of beefsteaks, two rabbits, excepting the heads and breasts, a knuckle of veal, five carrots, six onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, a bunch of parsley, and scallions; put all these into a stewpan, with two ladlesful of broth, and set them over a good fire to reduce; then cover the stove, and let the stewpan stand over it until the meat begins to give out the gravy and adheres slightly. The jelly at the bottom of the stewpan ought to be nearly black, and when that is the case take it from the stove, let it stand for ten minutes, and then fill up the stewpan with good broth or water: if the latter not so large a quantity. Let it simmer for three hours, skim, and season it well. If water is used instead of broth the gravy must be strained before it is used. GRAVY, or Rich Cullis. Cut into slices some lean beef, veal, and mutton, and cover the bottom of the saucepan with the veal; then put in a few slices of salt pork, next a layer of beef, add a few onions sliced, the red part of one or two carrots, a little mace, two or three cloves, some whole pepper, two or three bay leaves, and above that the mutton. Cover the pan closely, set it on a slow fire, and when the meat is a fine brown mix quite smooth a small quantity of flour in water; stir it in, and then add as much boiling water as will cover the meat well, and a little salt; cover the pan closely, let it stew an hour and a half, strain, and keep it for use. It will continue good for eight or ten days. GRAVY FOR BOILED MEAT may be made with parings and trimmings, or pour from a quart to half a pint of the liquor in which tlie meat was boiled into the dish with it, and pierce the inferior of the joint with a sharp skewer. GRAVY, CLEAR. Slice some beef thinly, broil a part of it over a very clear quick fire just enough to give colour to the gravy, but do not dress it; put that and the raw meat into a very nicely tinned stewpan, with a couple of onions, one or two cloves, whole black pepper, berries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it two or three times; then cover it, and let it simmer till quite strong. GRAVY D'ETOUFFADE. Take a leg of beef, and lard it with fat ham, a few cloves of garlic, and the same number of cloves; put half a dozen large onions into a stewpan, with the beef, six or eight berries of allspice, a little nutmeg, half a bottle of Madeira wine, and some consomme; boil over a large fire until reduced to a jelly, then place your stewpan over a stove, and cover it with hot ashes; leave it for some time, and when it is of a dark colour, without being either bitter or burnt, moisten it with broth, and add some veal or fowl trimmings. When the whole is sufficiently done strain it through a cloth, set it on the edge of the stove, take off the fat, add two or three ladlesful of Espagnole to it, and reduce it to the proper consistence. GRAVY, ESSENCE OF HAM FOR. Pick off all the bits of meat from a ham bone, pound them, break the bone, and put all into a saucepan together, with nearly half a pint of water and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer gently for some time, stirring it occasionally; then add a pint of good beef gravy and some pepper, and continue to simmer till it is well flavoured with the herbs ; strain, and keep it for improving rich gravies and sauces of all descriptions. GRAA^Y FOR A FOWL WITHOUT MEAT. Nicely wash the feet of a fowl, and cut them and the neck into small pieces ■; sim- mer them with a little browned bread, a slice of onion, a bit of parsley, thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard in a quarter of a pint of water till they are reduced to half; take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it; then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom catsup. GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. Take a basin, and put into it a glass of table beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut pickle or mushroom catsup ; cut an onion into slices, flour them, and fry them in apiece of butter until they are brown; then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer (covered) for twenty minutes ; strain it off for use, and when it is cold take off the fat. GRAVY, PETITS PATfiS OF. Roll some puff paste to a proper thickness, and cut itGRA r 4 ] GEE into round pieces with a circular paste cutter; lay half thfiir number in small moulds or tins, and put on each a ball of godiveau proportioned to the size of the petits j)ates; cover them with the remaining pieces, dorez, and bake them. When done open them, cut the godiveau into pieces, and pour into each some good gravy, in which are mushrooms cut into dice. This, however, must not be done until the feiits pates are to be sent to table. GRAVY FOR ROAST MEAT. About a quarter of an hour before the meat is taken from the fire put a common dish, with a tea- spoonful of salt in it, under the meat. When it has all run into the dish remove it, baste and froth the meat, and pour the gravy into the dish on which the roast is to be served. GRAVY OF ROOTS. Roast some onions and parsnips on hot ashes, clean and slice them into a stewpan, and when they give out a yellowish brown -juice moisten them with a glass of clear vegetable broth; boil them with a little salt, an onion, and a clove for a quarter of an hour ; then rub the gravy through a cloth or a sieve, and set it by for use. GRAVY SOUP. Take a leg of beef, and •well wash and soak it; break the bone, and put it into a saucepan, with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced (and fried to a nice brown, taking great care that they are not burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty of black pepper. Stew till the soup is as rich as you wish it to be, and then take out the meat. When it is cold take off the fat, heat the soup with vermicelli, the nicest part of a head of celery boiled and cut into pieces, Cayenne, and a little salt. Carrot may be added, with turnip cut into small pieces, and boiled with spinach and endive ; or the herbs without the vermicelli, or vermicelli only ; add also a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom catsup. A French roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. GRAVY, THICKENING FOR. Yor white thickening put 4 ozs. of fresh butter into a stew- pan over a clear fire. When it is melted stir in gradually with a wooden spoon eight table- spoonsful of flour till quite smooth, then put it into an earthen pan, and tie it over to keep. It should not be darker than cream. For brown thickening only six table-spoonsful of flour should be used with 4 ozs. of fresh butter. It should be made over a strong fire, and gradually browned lightly. If it burns or has dark specks it will make the sauce bitter. The usual proportion of thickening for gravy is from a table spoonful to a quart. GRAVY FOR VENISON. The best gravy for venison is made of the trimmings of the joint itself; but if these cannot be spared cut up a scrag of mutton, and broil the pieces till they are brown ; put them into a stewpan with a quart of boiling water, cover it closely, and simmer for an hour; then uncover the pan, and suffer the liquor to be reduced to three quarters of a pint; strain it through a hair sieve, take off the fat, season it with salt, and send the gi'avy to table. It may be coloured with a little browning. GREASE SPOTS. (See Appakel and Boards). To remove them from linen take a lump of magnesia, wet it, and rub the spots well with it. After awhile brush it off, when the spots will be found to be removed. To remove them from silJ( place a little pipe- clay or French chalk, finely powdered, upon a piece of writing paper, lay the greased part of the silk upon this powder, sprinkle some more of the powder upon the greased part, cover over it another piece of writing paper, and then iron it with a laundress's flat iron moderately heated. Magnesia answers as well as the French chalk. To remove them from ivool, first soak the wool in tepid water for an hour, and then take it out and wring it. Secondly, to every pound of wool dissolve l^^oz. of soap in one quart of boiling water; then add five quarts of water of a heat which the hand can just bear, plunge in it the washed wool, and let it soak half an hour. Thirdly, prepare a wash like the preceding, but entirely of boiling water, and soak the wool in it for about the same time. To avoid entangling the wool it must not be worked about in the water. When cold wash it in clear water, and a soft bright wool will bo obtained, free from grease and other impurities. The following are some general notes on the same subject:— Grease spots may be removed from woollen cloths by placing two or three folds of blotting paper over the spotted part, and holding a hot iron upon it until the paper has absorbed all the grease; but the following preparation will remove them effectually. The balls, which will keep any length of time, should be made up, and always kept ready in the house. Dry i lb. of fullers' earth so that it shall fall into powder, which moisten well with lemon juice; then add I" oz. of pearlash finely pulverised, and work up the whole into a thick paste ; roll this paste into small balls, which must be set in the sun, or at a little distance from the fire, to dry. When used the spots on the cloth should be moistened with warm water, and well rubbed with one of the balls. Put the cloth in the sun to dry, wash out the substance of the ball with cold water, or, if not in great quantity, brush it out. It will be found to have absorbed all the grease.[ 3 ] The lump of magnesia or the balls of fullers' earth will remove grease from silk; but a much safer specific, as regards preserving the colour, is the following, which may likewise- be used for woollen, and even for linen articles, though not so good for these latter as the expungents specially recommended for them :—Reduce to an im- palpable powder 1 oz. of French chalk and 5 ozs. of very fine pipeclay; mix them well together, and add to them 2 ozs. of spirit of wine. Work the mi.Kture into a paste, and then form it into rolls about the length and size of a finger. Let these rolls dry, and they will be fit for use. They are to be applied to the silk in the same manner as fullers' earth balls are applied to woollen cloths, and then washed out with cold water. These rolls will also remove grease spots from any kind of stuffs without injury to the colour. GREEN BEANS FOR WINTER USE, Boil salt and water to make a strong pickle, string the beans, put them in a tight wooden firkin, and sprinkle thenj with salt as they go in. When the pickle is cold pour it on, and put on a weight to keep the beans under. They will keep in a cellar till the next spring, They should soak several hours in cold water before thev are boiled. GREEN CURRANT WINE. The currants must be full grown, but not yet beginning to redden. Strip them from the stems, weigh them, and to every 3 lbs. allow a gallon of soft water; mash them well, and proceed exactly the same as for GoosEBERHT Champagne, except that you may use the best light-coloured brown sugar instead of loaf. Instead of bottling it, as soon as it has done fermenting you may, when- ever the hissing is over, put in the bung tightly, and let the wine remain in the cask. In six months it will be fit for drinking. GREEN CUSTARD. _ Put in a marble or white-ware mortar a sufficient quantity of fresh spinach till you have extracted as much green juice as will fill a half-pint tumbler or two common-sized wine-glasses; mix this quantity of spinach juice with a quart of rich unskimmed milk, and J lb. of loaf sugar broken very small ; flavour it with a wine-glass of peach water, or with the yellow rind of two large lemons grated off on some of the largest lumps of the sugar, or for the flavouring you may use a vanilla bean, or a handful of bitter almonds or peach kernels, boiled a long time in half a pint of milk, which must then be strained and mixed with the other milk. Beat eight eggs, or the yolks only of sixteen, till very light; mix them with the milk, &c. (first straining the beaten eggs), and having stirred the whole very hard, pour it into a white-ware pitcher, and set it in a pot rather more than hfilf full of boiling wa^er j place jt on a stove or a bed of hot coals on the hearth, stir it to the bottom, and Watch it continually till it has almost come to a boil. When very near boiling take it off the fire immediately, for if it quite boils it will curdle. Set it away to get cold. When lukewarm it will be an improvement to stir into it two table-spoonsful or more of rose water. Cover the bottom of a large glass bowl or a deep dish with slices of sponge cake or Naples biscuit; then put on green sweetmeats, such as preserved goose- berries, greengages, green grapes, or green citron melon. When the custard is quite cold pour it on, and fill up the bowl with it. If made as above this will be found both delicious and ornamental for a dessert or supper table. GREEN FRITTERS are made the same as Sweetmeat Fritters, but coloured by the juice of spinach, extracted by pounding it in a mortar. GREEN SAUCE. Mix together a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries ; then add sugar and a bit of butter. Boil them up. GREENGAGE JAM. Rub ripe green- gages through a large hair sieve, and put them into a preserving pan; then to I lb. of pulp add 1 lb. of sifted sugar, after which boil to a proper thickness, skinj it clean, and put it into small pots. GREENGAGES: To Candy. When finished in the syrup [see Greengages: To Preserve) put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water to take off the syrup that hangs about it; then put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and do some moi-e on the sieve. Have ready some sifted double-refined sugar, sift this all over every part of the fruit till it is perfectly white, set it on the shallow end of a sieve in a lightly warm oven, and turn ■ it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully. GREENGAGES: To Preserve. You must choose the largest when they begin to soften. Split without paring them, and having previously weighed an equal quantity of sugar, strew a part of it over them, and blanch the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next day pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar very gently for six or eight minutes ; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till plear, taking off any scum that rises ; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels upon it. GREENGAGES, COMPOTE OF. Take greengages, prick thena with a pin, and set them on the fire in a pan of cold water till they are softened ; then take then; ofiF, and let them cool in the same water. When that is done take the highest degree of clarified sugar, putG RE L " J GRU your greengages into it, and set them again on a very slow fire to make them throw off their ■water and turn green. During this second opera- tion you must cover your pan with a tin plate, that the steam may not escape, after which take them out and dress them in vour dishes. GREENHOUGHS TINCTURE FOR THE TEETH. Bitter almonds, 1 oz.; Brazil chips, 1 drachm; orris root, 1 drachm ; cochi- neal, i drachm; salt of sorrel, ^ drachm ; alum, ^drachm; spirit of wine, 1 pint; spirit of scurvy grass, 2 drachms. Mix, let them soak for a week, and strain through blotting paper. GREENS : To Boil. After skimming the pot that the bacon has been boiled in put in the cabbage sprouts, and let them boil till the stalks are tender. All greens are best boiled in a net. Spinach cooks in a few minutes. Some persons prefer it when boiled in salt and water. You should have drawn butter or bard eggs to eat with it when done in this way GREGORY'S POWDER. Sometimes called Gregorys mixture. Mix together thoroughly 4 ozs. of magnesia, \ oz. of ginger in powder, and ] oz. of rhubarb in powder. Mild aperient dose, from 1 scruple to ^ drachm. GRIDDLE CAKE. See Indi.^n Cop.k. GRILL SAUCE. Into half a pint of beet gravy put 1 oz. of fresh butter and a table- spoonful of flour, and after having rubbed them well together add a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup, two tea-spoonsful of lemon juice, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, the same quantity of miuced capers, half a tea-spoonful of black pepper, a quarter of the rind of a lemon pared thinly, a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy, and either a little shallot wine or a small piece of minced shallot, with a little chilli vinegar or a few grains of Cayenne. Simmer all these for a few minutes, pour a little of the sauce over the grill, and send the rest up separately. GRINGLE CAKE. Take two cupsful of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, one table-spoonful of wine or brandy, milk and rose water, a tea- spoonful of saleratus, and then add sufficient flour to make it stiff enough to roll. Stamping is an improvement. GRIPES. See Colic. GRISKIN : To Duess. Put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it boil; then take it up, and lay it in a Dutch oven, where it will be done in a^few minixtes. You may stuff it with sage and onions. Rub butter and flour over it before it is put down to the fire. A griskin of 7 lbs. or 8 lbs. will take an hour and a half to roast in the common way. GROAT CAUDLE. [See Caudle.) Make a nice gi-uel of groats, with lemon zest and cinnamon ; add a glass of brandy or wine, and sweeten with sugar. A little almond paste may be dissolved in it, or add sliced almonds and citron, or currants. For the patient the less wine or brandy the better; but for visitors put in as much as they like, or the person who makes it will be no good nurse. GROATS or Grits. See Gruel. GROUND IVY {Glechonia hederacea). Ground ivy has a peculiarly strong odour, and is of a bitter and slightly aromatic taste. Its leaves contain an essential oil destitute of smell. This plant was formerly held in great estima- tion, and supposed to possess eminent medicinal virtues, but which are not confirmed by later experience. In obstinate coughs it is still a favourite remedy with the poor, who probably experience its good effects by persevering in its use and abstaining from animal food. The leaves thrown into the vat with ale clarify it and give it a flavour. It was generally used for this purpose till the reign of Henry VIII., about which period hops were substituted. Hence it was called ale-hoof and tun-hoof. Ale thus prepared is often drunk as an antiscorbutic. An infusion of the leaves is commonly taken as tea, and proves slightly tonic, expectorant, and aperient. The expressed juice mixed with a little wine, and applied morning and evening, destroys the white specks upon horses' eyes. GROUSE OR MOORFOWL PUDDING. Having skinned the grouse, cut them up as for carving, and season them slightly with salt and pepper. Have ready a sufficient quantity of paste made in the proportion of 1 lb. of fresh butter to 2lbs. of sifted flour; roll it out thickly, and line a pudding mould with it, which must first be buttered, reserving sufficient paste for the lid ; then put in the pieces of grouse, and place between each layer a layer of small mushrooms, or of fresh oysters cut small. Next pour in a little water (about half a pint), and add a piece of fresh butter lolled in flour; then cover it with the remaining paste, pressing it down very closely round the edge. Dip a strong clean cloth into boiling water, dredge it with flour, and tie it tightly over the mould or pudding basin; put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it three hours or more according to size. GROUSE, ROASTED. Grouse should have their heads twisted under the wing They must be roasted like fowls, but not be over- done. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish and bread sauce. The sauce for wild fowl may be used instead of common gravy. GRUEL. To make groat gruel properly the proportion should be a table-spoonful of " Embden groats " to a quart of water. It is not necessary to mix the groats with cold water as in the case of oatmeal, but, haying thrown them together, keep stirring until it simmers,GUM GUA C 7 J and then occasionally, to prevent its sticking to the bottom of the saucepan, for three quarters of an hour. It should then be strained through a fine sieve. More or less of the groats may be used in proportion to the thickness desired, but the above is the quantity generally used. Milk Gruel. Take half a tumbler of thick gruel, and the same quantity of new milk, both lukewarm; mix together, and let the patient drink it. This, where the debility is extreme, will sustain the powers of nature when nothing else can be taken. Oatmeal Groel. If it be required thick mix well together by degrees in a pint basin two table-spoonsful of oatmeal with three of cold water; if thin, only one spoonful of oat- meal. Put in a saucepan a pint of boiling water, add this by degrees to the oatmeal, mix as above directed, return it to the saucepan, let it boil five minutes, stirring it all the time to prevent burning, skim, and strain it through a hair sieve. A little wine, sugar, or salt may be added, according to the patient's wish. Plain gruel of this receipt is one of the best breakfasts and suppers that we can recom- mend to the rational epicure, and is the most comfortable soother of an irritable stomach that we know, being particularly acceptable to it after a hard day's work of intemperate feasting, when the addition of i oz. of butter and a tea-spoonful of Epsom salts will give it an aperient quality, which will assist the principal viscera to get rid of their burden. GUAIACUM, or Lignum Vit/k Tree {Guai- acum officinale). The wood of this species is of equal utility in the mechanical arts and in medicine, being so heavy as to sink when immersed in water. It is chiefly employed in the West Indies for the wheels and cogs of sugar-mills, and is also frequently formed into mortars, bowls, and other utensils. The wood, gum, and bark are all employed in medicine, though the first two are chiefly used in Europe. Gum guaiacum is of a fxiable nature, of a deep greenish colour, but sometimes of a reddish hue, and has a pungent acrid taste. There is another spontaneous exudation obtained from the bark of this tree, which is called native gum : it is imported in small, irregular, semi-pellucid pieces, and is much purer than that extracted by incision. The general virtues of guaiacum are those of a warm aromatic medicine ; it strengthens the stomach and other viscera, and greatly promotes the discharges of uiine and perspiration. Hence it is of especial service in cutaneous eruptions, and disorders arising from obstructions of the excretory glands. In rheumatic and other pains unattended with fever the liberal use of gum guaiacum has often afforded considerable relief. It is likewise a good laxative, and furnishes a more active medicine than either the wood or bark of this tree. Gum guaiacum, when dissolved in rum, or combined with water by means of mucilage or the yolk of an egg, or in the form of a tincture or elixir, has been found useful in chronic rheumatism, or even in such wandering pains of the stomach or other parts of the body as could be attributed to the retrocedent gout, in which cases a small table-spoonful of the emulsion may be taken three or four times a day. GUDGEONS : To Choose. Gudgeons are chosen by the same rules as other fish. They are caught in running streams, come in about Midsummer, and remain five or six months. GUDGEONS: To Dress. These fish are most commonly fried. Scale, empty, and wipe them clean without washing them, flour them, and put them into a good friture of lard or butter. GUDGEONS AU COURT BOUILLON. Empty and wash the fish, then boil them in a court bouillon of equal quantities of wine and maigre broth; add salt, pepper, and a few artichoke bottoms. When done I'educe the liquor, and serve them hot. GUDGEONS, STEWED. Scale, empty, and wipe the gudgeons clean without washing them; then take the dish upon which you serve, and put into it some butter, with parsley, green onions, mushrooms, a couple of shallots, thyme, a bay leaf, and basil, all cut finely ; add salt and pepper, place the gudgeons on this, seasoning them over and under, and moistening the whole with a glass of red wine ; cover the dish, and set it over a brisk fire till the sauce is almost consumed. They will not require more than a quarter of an hour to cook. You may dress smelts in the same manner; but they must be neither scaled nor emptied, but only wiped clean. GUINEA FOWLS: To Dress. Guinea fowls have very much the flavour of pheasants, and are cooked in the same manner. GUM ARABIC, or Gum Acacia, is the produce of a tree known as Mimosa Nilotica. Gum arabic exerts no medical action on the living system, but is a simple demulcent, serving to lubricate abraded surfaces, and involve acrid matters in the primm vim. It is scarcely ever given in the solid form, unless to sheath the fauces, and allay the tickling and irritation which occasion the cough in catarrh and pul- monary consumption, in which case a piece of it is allowed to dissolve slowly in the mouth. It is chiefly used in the state of mucilage, which is ordered to be made thus, and is called[ 8 ] GUN GUM l)y the London College mucilage of acacia:— Take of acacia gum powdered, 4 ozs.; boiling water, ^ pint. Rub the gum with the water until it incoi-porates into a mucilage. Gum arable and Senegal are used extensively for various purposes in the arts. They are also used by the Moors as food, and are, as a vegetable production, very nutritive. GUM PASTE. [See Cement, Gdm.) Take a common-sized tea-cupful of cold soft water, and dissolve in it a large tea-spoonful of the best and cleanest powdered gum arable. When the gum is entirely melted stir in by degrees a table-spoonful of fine wheat flour, carefully pressing out all the lumps, and making it as smooth as possible ; keep it closely covered in a cool place. If after a few days it should appear mouldy on the top, remove the surface, and the paste beneath will still be lit for use. This is a good cement for artificial flowers, and for ornamental pasteboard work. GUMBO, CHICKEN. Cut up a young fowl as if for a fricassee, put into a stewpan a large table-spoonful of fresh butter mixed with a tea-spoonful of flour, and an onion finely minced; brown them over the fire, and then add a quart of water and the pieces of chicken, with a quarter of a peck of okras, first sliced thinly, and then chopped, and a salt-spoonful of salt; cover the pan, and let the whole stew together till the okras are entirely dissolved, and the fowl thoroughly done. If it is a very young chicken do not put it in at first, as half an hour will be sufficient to cook it. Serve it up hot in a deep dish. GUMS. There are various afl'ections of these. Gum-boils usually arise from violent pains in the teeth. They are to be treated with discu- tients, like other inflammatory tumours ; but if these fail, or the disorder be neglected, it is apt to produce a fistula. A gargle prepared of an infusion of sage, camomile, and elder flowers boiled in milk and water, may with advantage be frequently held in the mouth, and the remaining herbs sewn up in a bag and applied to the cheek ; or a half-roasted fig held within the mouth to the part affected sometimes affords great relief. When the softness of the tumour evinces that the matter is properly suppurated it should without delay be opened by the lancet, to prevent the matter from lodging there, eroding the bone, and causing a fistula or caries. After this, operation is performed the matter should be gently pressed out with the fingers, and the mouth frequently washed with lukewarm port wine and water; but when the ulcer has penetrated to a considerable depth it will be necessary to inject the last-mentioned mixture with a syringe, and compress the part affected by a proper external bandage. If the affection assumes a fistulous appearance, and has callous edges, it may even then be cured by injecting the compound tincture of aloes, and continuing it for some time. Should, however,, all these remedies prove inetfectual, the fistula must be laid open by incision, and the caries removed by medicines or caustics. Gams frequently become spongy and separate from the teeth. This is often occasioned by a tartarous kind of crust which is formed about them, and on the separation of which the gums return to their pristine state. To promote this favourable change they should occasionally, though gently, be rubbed with a mixture con- sisting of four parts of an infusion of roses, and one part of the tincture of myrrh. Another disorder incident to human gums is the scurvy, which frequently breaks out on them, while it does not appear on any other part of the body. Indeed, when a scorbutic complaint attacks the whole system the first symptom is a putrid state of the gums. In such case a rigid diet, consisting chiefly of ripe fruit and mucilaginous vegetables, will be the best cor- rective. Externally, a fine powder, prepared of three parts of double-refined sugar and one part of burnt alum, may be employed for rub- bing them two or three times a day, because sugar is an excellent antiseptic even as an article of diet. Livid gums generally proceed from the blood stagnating there, which is owing to a fault in the circulation. The method of preventing and correcting this defect is to rub the gums carefully every morning with a linen cloth a little rough, and to pick them from time to time, but very gently, with the point of a golden or ivory toothpick, to make them bleed a little ; for this must be done, else the rubbing with the linen cloth will not have force enough to restore the circulation in the part. But in picking the gums to make them bleed you must take care not to do it where the teeth are joined to the gum, but only in the middle of its breadth, at some distance from the teeth. GUN COTTON. If clean carded cotton be immersed for two or three minutes in a larg€ quantity of the sti'ongest nitric acid, sp. gr. 1 52, then well washed in water, and dried bi the heat of a water bath, it will be convertec into gun cotton. The following, however, is th« best process for making it:—Mix two parts ol nitiic acid, sp. gr. I'o, and one part of oil oi vitriol, sp. gr. 1845; immerse clean and dry carded cotton in the mixture for two minutes; then take it out, press it (to remove adhering acid), wash it in a current of water until all fre« acid is removed, and dry it by the heat of c water bath. Gun cotton thus prepared is highly explosive,HAA [ 9 J GUR igniting at a temperature a little above 21 •2' Fahrenheit. It is supposed to consist of the elements of the cotton, together with, those of nitric acid, but an accurate analysis of it has not yet been made. ■ Collodion is made by dissolving 30 grains of gun cotton in 1 oz. of strong sulphuric ether. It requires to stand for a day to complete the union. This forms the best of applications to wounds. When the bleeding has ceased bring the lips of the wound closely together, and apply over it the collodion by means of a camel's hair brush. It excludes the air, and is not removed by washing. GURNETS : To Broil. Having cut off their heads, dip them in melted butter with salt, and broil them, but not over too fierce a fire. Serve them either with plain anchovy sauce, or a sauce made as follows:—Put some fresh butter, a little flour, and a leek into a saucepan, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; moisten with vinegar and water, add a couple of anchovies, and keep it on the fire, shaking constantly till the fish are done. Dish them, and pour the sauce over. GUTTA PERCHA is a purely Malay name, gutta in that language meaning gum, and percha (pronounced pertsha) is the name of the tree producing it. It is therefore, literally, " percha gum." The tree is known to botanists as Isonandra gutta. This substance, when fresh and pure, is of a dirty white colour, and of a greasy feel, with a peculiar leathery smell. It is not affected by boiling alcohol, but dissolves readily in boiling spirits of turpentine, and also in naphtha and coal tar. A good cement for luting bottles and other purposes is formed by boiling together two parts of gutta, one part of coal tar, and one part of resin. When required for use it can always be made plastic by putting the pot con- taining it over the fire for a few minutes. The gutta itself is highly inflammable: a strip cut ofl' takes light, and burns with a bright flame, emitting sparks, and dropping a black residuum in the manner of sealing-wax, which m its combustion it very much resembles. But the great peculiarity of this substance, and that which makes it so eminently useful for many purposes, is the effect of boiling water upon it. When immersed for a few minutes in water above 150" Fahrenheit it becomes soft and plastic, so as to be capable of being moulded to any required shape or form, which it retains upon cooling. If a strip of it be cut off and plunged into boiling water it contracts in size, both in length and breadth. It is this plasticity when plunged into boiling water that has allowed of its being applied to so many useful purposes, and which first induced some Malays to fabricate it into whips, which were brought into town, and led to its further notice. The natives have subsequently ex- tended their manufactures to buckets, basins, jugs, shoes, traces, vessels for cooling wines, and several other domestic uses; but the number of patents lately taken out for the manufacture of the article in England proves how much attention it has already attracted, and how extensively useful it is likely to become. Of all the purposes, however, to which it may be adapted, none is so valuable as its appli- cability to the practice of surgery. Here it becomes one of the most useful auxiliaries to that branch of the healing art which of all is the least conjectural. Its easy plasticity, and power of i-etaining any shape given to it when cool, at once pointed it out as suitable for the manufacture of bougies, and many advantages- have been found in the use of this substance. It also answers very well for the tubes of syringes, which are always getting out of order when made of caoutchouc. Its utility in fracture of the lower jaw must at once strike any surgeon. So well does it mould itself to every sinuosity that it is more like giving the patient a new bone than a mere support. A man lately brought into a hospital, who had his lower jaw broken by the kick of a horse, and which was so severe as to cause hemorrhage from the ears, smashing the bone into several fragments, was able to eat and speak three days after the accident, and felt so well with his gutta splint that be insisted on leaving the hospital within ten days. Among the various applications of gutta percha are thread, cord, tubular staves, diving bands, constables' staves, sticks, whips, ink- stands, medallions, shields, water buckets, stereotype plates, and almost every other de- scription of article, both useful and ornamental. The first articles of use made of gutta percha in this country were laid before the Society of Arts in 1844, and consisted of a lathe band, a short length of pipe, and a bottle- case, and from the period mentioned to July 11th, in 1848, between 600 and 700 tons had been imported for the Gutta Percha Company. From twenty to sixty tons are now regularly imported every month. GYMNASTICS. See Exercise and Spine (Distorted). GYPSUM. See Plaster of Paris. H HAARLEM CAKES. Sift into a pan three pints of flour, warm in a saucepan a pint of milk, and cut up in it ^ lb. of fresh butter.HAB HAB [ 10 1 When the batter is soft enough to mix. with the milk stir them well together, and remove the saucepan from the fire; beat three eggs till very light, and mix them with the milk and butter after they have cooled; then make a hole in the middle of the flour, pour in the mixture, and two large table-spoonsful of strong fresh yeast. With a spoon mix the flour into the liquid till the whole is thoroughly incorporated, then cover the pan with a thick woollen cloth, and set it near the fire to rise. It should be light in about five hours, perhaps sooner. When quite light mix in a tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in a very little warm water, divide the dough into long oval cakes or rolls, and knead each separately; sprinkle an iron baking pan with flour, put in the cakes, cover the pan, and Jet it stand half an hour before baking. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven. Eat them fi'esh with butter. They are excellent tea-cakes. Of course they must be mixed in the forenoon. HABERDINE is dried salt cod. See Cod. HABITS. As these form the chief pre- disposition to the diseases with which we ai'e concerned, it is essential to the preventive part of this work that the more important of them should be here considered. We first advert to that disposition which is observable from almost the earliest periods of infancj' to attempt, by all possible means, the gratificatiop of every want, and the removal of every present suffering. Although this principle, which is inherent in our very nature, and is in the beginning provided for by instinctive motions, is evidently intended for the preserva- tion of life, yet, under the want or perversion of the means of practical instraction, it becomes the source of the greater number of physical evils which affect mankind. Attentive observa- tion will also show that the usual modes of early education among civilised nations are more instrumental in the production of moral evil than even a state of ruder nature. In the former state the wants of infancy and childhood are satisfied as soon as expressed, and even anticipated and prevented. A similar conduct is observed with regard to those slight sufferings which are incidental to the frail state of humanity. Under both these situations, instead of being taught patience by reasonable denial, it usually happens that the child is gratified precisely in proportion to the violence of its importunity, or else bribed intp acquiescence by some compromise of sensual indulgence. Thus he learns to consider present enjoyment as the end of his existence, and, concluding that the world was made for his pleasure, is averse to the torture of instruction, ftnd hates those who contradict or oppose him. 1"p this criminal indulgence of innate pro- pensities during childhood may chiefly be traced those vicious habits which afterwards " grow with our growth, and strengthen with our strength," are the bane of all social virtues, and unfit us alike for present and future happiness. Among the lower orders of society, although the general principles are precisely similar to those which have been thus described, these processes in some degree differ, con- formably to the difference of the conditions of life. The child is, indeed, brought up more hardily; but he soon discovers that he can disobey with impunity, and that, in spite of repeated positive denials, he can always, by querulousness, passion, or persevering impor tunity, ultimately gain his purpose. In no rank of life is there, in general, much choice as to the means, provided the end be obtained. If tl^ child cry it must be quieted. If benefit is to bo procured at the expense of incon- venience, however trifling, either the good must be absolutely relinquished, or acquiescence must be gained by some assurance or promise, which the very next moment the child discovers to be S: falsehood. From this representation, which the nature of the medical profession affords a thousand opportunities of verifying, it appears that the usual habits of civilised society place the earliest period of human life in a worse situation, with regard to the common principles of virtue, than those of the untutored savage. The immediate cause of these errors is obvious. The parent and nurse act, with regard to the child, precisely in conformity to their own habits. Accustomed rarely to look for the regulation of their conduct beyond the feelings of the present moment, they apply the same rule to that being whom Providence has trusted to their care. They perceive that he is afflicted by the exertions of due authority, and the expressions of his afflictions are intolerable to them. All, there- fore, which they are anxious to accomplish is their own immediate ease, and it is not till too late that they discover (if their ignorance or selfishness will ever permit them to discover) that by their conduct they have defeated their o^^'n purpose, and rendered inveterate those very evils which they strove to shun. Human life consists of a series of irritations, and Providence has so ordered that scarcely any earthly good is to be acquired without labour and suffering. As also, on one hand, the good itself is enhanced by the difiiculty with which it is attained, so, on the other hand, there are few pains, whether of body or mind, which are not, within certain limits, alleviated by continuance and repetitions. Hence no one, probably, enjoys true pleasure but he who has e.xperienced pain, and moderate evils are scarcelyHAD HAG [ n ] felt by those who have been habituated to greater. On tlie contrary, men who are nurtured in habits of self-indulgence not only bear with impatience those inconveniences which are common to the rest of mankind, but possess an acuteness of perception which con- verts indifferent impressions into actual suffer- ing. But even in those cases in which indolence and an assiduous escape from the common pains and irritations of life have been carried to a much less extent than that just mentioned, they naturally lead to a state of the system in- compatible with happiness or comfort. The predisposition being thus created, every- thing that can concur to the eventual torment of the unhappy being through the greater part of the course of life ison principle carefully supei'- added. Towards this end the first step is the dereliction of bodily exercise, so that when the youth, who during boyhood had derived his chief pleasure from every variety of muscular exertion, commences that occupation which is to form the business of his future life, the exer- cise of his body by means of its own muscles almost wholly ceases. Hence at the commencement of adult age occur in males indigestion, headache, and various affections of the brain ; and at a more advanced period gout, dropsy, and all those complaints which are called bilious. These maladies, with the exception of gout, fall still more heavily on the female sex, who, from the reputed diseases of civilised society, are at an earlier period of life subjected to physical restraint. Hence, even while children, they are confined to long sitting in schools or under governesses, and during the intervals of study are relinquishing all those exercises in which boys for a considerable time afterwards freely indulge. HACHEE SAUCE. Blanch and mince a spoonful of mushroom, a spoonful of shallots, and about a third of minced parsley; put it into three ladlesful of Espagnole and as much consomme, and two spoonsful of vinegar and pepper; boil and skim; minoe one or two spoonsful of capers, add the butter of one or two anchovies, and work it well. It should not be boiled after the capers are put in. HADDOCK, DRIED. Take the eyes, gills, and entrails from the fish, with any blood that may settle in them; wipe them perfectly dry, and salt them ; let them lie twenty-four hours, then run a string through the eyes, and hang them up in a dry place. HADDOCK, FINDHORN (Imitation of). Let the fish be well cleaned, and laid in salt for two hours; let the water drain from them, and then wet them with pyroligneous acid. They may be split or not. Then hang them in a dry situation for a day or two, or longer if you please. When broiled they have the flavour of the Findhorn haddock, and will keep sweet for a long time. HADDOCKS : To Boil. Fill a fish kettle with cold spring water, to which add plenty of salt, and put the haddocks into this over the fire. As soon as they begin to boil salt them well, and set them by the fire to simmer. When done drain them thoroughly from the water, dish them, and serve them with Dutch sauce. HADDOCKS : To Broil. Take the skins from the number of haddocks you intend to dress, and toss up the fish in some egg beaten with pepper and salt; take them out and bread them; then, having dipped them in clarified butter, bread them a second time, and broil them to a nice colour over a moderate fire. Be sure both sides are done equally. Serve them with a good sauce Italienne. HADDOCKS, ABERDEEN. Split the had- docks, lay them on a dresser or board, and dredge them over with very finely powdered salt; lay over them a smooth board, and put weights equally upon it; let them repose two or three hours, and then hang them up to dry. After they are a little hardened they may be smoked with juniper, birch, or stable litter. If wanted for immediate use they are broiled before the fire very slowly, first di'ied at a distance, or upon a hanging jack or gridiron. Send them to table in a napkin. HADDOCKS, RIZZARD. Take out the gills of haddocks of from 1 lb. to 2 lbs. weight, rub a little salt in the breast bone and the neck, lay them in a heap upon a dresser, and leave them for an hour or two; wipe them, run a wooden spit through the eyes, and hang them, in the air, but not damp. Too many ought not to be done at a time, as they do not keep well over three or four days, which also depends on the season ; but if a little sugar is added they will probably keep a long time. Broil them very nicely at a distance over a good fire, put them on a hot dish, open them, split the bone, and put several pieces of nice fresh butter into each; turn them that they may be equally buttered, and serve very hot. They are nice for supper or breakfast dishes, and if well done have a taste that is very grateful. HADDOCKS, SAUCE OF. Make a sauce of the heads and fins, with pepper, salt, onions, or chives, and parsley; strain the liquor, and when it cools, if the fish are large, cut them in junks, roll them in flour, put them into the sauce, and dredge a little flour over; add some pieces of butter and a few sprigs of parsley; cover the whole closely, and shake it often and gently. It will take from five to fifteen minutes to cook, according to the thickness of the fish. The hard roe will take the whole time, but tha soft roe and liver only half.HAI II AD HADDOCKS THE SCOTCH WAY. If boiled they are previously salted, and the head and skin taken off. They are also broiled, and served with cold butter ; or fried, after being boned and cut into pieces, and then done over with egg and crumbs of bread strewed upon them. In this manner they resemble soles. Some split them down the middle, rub them with butter, and roast them in a Dutch oven. HEMORRHAGE, or Hemorrhage. See Bleeding. HAGGIS, SCOTCH (1). Blanch and chop finely the heart and lights of a calf or sheep, to which add 1 lb. of beef suet well shred. Take the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream, beaten cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, half a pint of sweet wine, 1 lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, flour to give the whole a proper consistence, the yolks of three eggs, salt, and some sheep's chitterlings cut in slips. Having mixed all these, put them into a sheep's bag or stomach well cleaned, tie it up tightly, and let it boil three hours. HAGGIS, SCOTCH (2). Make the bag properly clean, parboil the draught, boil the liver well so that it may grate, dry oatmeal before the fire, mince the draught and a tolerably large piece of beef very small, grate about half the liver, mince plenty of suet and some onions small, and mix the whole well together with a handful or two of the dried meal; spread them out a little, and season them properly with salt and different spices, taking any of the scraps that may be left, and some of the water in which the draught was boiled, and make about a quart of good stock of it; then put all the haggis meat into the bag together with the broth, and sew it up, taking care that the wind is previously expelled. If the bag is thin put it intcJ a cloth. A large haggis will take two hours at least. HAIR. This beauteous gift of nature is ofttimes so carelessly arranged as to prove a disfigurement, instead of an embellishment,' to the female form. We will, therefore, draw atten- tion to the most simple and correct mode of disposing and ornamenting the tresses. To effect this purpose we must allude to the ancient Greek women, whose method of arrang- ing the hair presents a striking contrast to all modem innovations of bad taste. This style of coiffure, designated by the French as dia Grecqiie, is the most simple, appropriate, and graceful that can adorn a woman's head. W^hat can be more beauteous in its simplicity than to see the glossy hair parted in the centre of the brow, drawn in a curved line across either side of the temples over the ears, then twisted into a knot, which extends to the nape of the neck ? When a more elaborate toilet was required the daughters of Greece entwined either fillets of ribbon, or wreaths of leaves of the ivy or vine, around their brows, or twisted strings of pearls or jewels in the knot of hair. This elegant method displayed alike the luxuriance of " nature's covering" and the formation of the head, neither concealing the shape of the latter, nor rendering it apparently out of proportion, by increasing its natural dimensions with bows and plaits. What can be moi-e inelegant and ungraceful than a mass of hair brought down low on either side of the cheek, and rendered as stubborn as possible by factitious aids, such as frizzing or gum, the hair at the back of the head being braided into wide plaits, and caused to stand from the head ? Add to this, in the evening attire, a towering plume of waving feathers, a massive tiara, large bunch of flowers, or wreath of full-blown damask roses. All must admit this style of coiffure to be as unbecoming as inelegant, for the beauty of the head and tresses is alike annihilated, the form of the first being hidden and enlarged, the exquisite softness of the last destroyed. As regards the style in which the tresses are confined, we think that a woman is fully justified in following the dictates of her own free will and good taste, instead of adhering to those of custom and fashion; and we un- hesitatingly afiirm that a female cannot either display better taste or judgment than in arranging her locks with neatness, simplicity, and elegance; and these three essential points in adornment are combined in the coiffure d. la Orecque. In France all women> from the descendant of a race of kings to the offspring of une dame de la halle, alike pay scrupulous attention to the neatness of the hair; and we wish those of our readers who are acquainted with French habits to recall to their recollection the smooth glossy tresses of the high-bora lady, the shining locks of the maitresse de mayazin, la demoiselle de houtique, la femme de chambre, la fille de Vauherge, la grisette, et lapoissarde; and although the hair of the first may be en- circled by a bandeau of sparkling diamonds, the second by un joli bonnet hrode, the third un- adorned by the hand of art, whilst the tresses of the last four are surmounted by caps of thick muslin, and then say if the coiffure of each of these women is not alike distinguished for neatness, simplicity, and good taste. Many of our fair countrywomen have a strong predilection for curls and ringlets, and the latter mode of wearing the hair is becoming to the ex- tremely juvenile, provided the tresses be un- sullied by oil or pomade ; for what can be more uupleasant in appearance, or uncleanly in reality, than a cluster of pendent curls saturated with unctuous matter? The occasional use of an[ 13 ] HAI HAT emollient to the hair may be requisite, hut when it is applied it should be used with a niggard hand ; for, however powerful the perfume may be that is amalgamated with the preparation, the odour of the greasy substance will predominate more or less : thus ladies who indulge in the habitual use of oils and pomades should invariably wear their tresses en bandeau lisse. We must be allowed to give a few words of advice to such of our fair readers as arrange their hair in ringlets, or, as our neighbours term it, d VAnglaise. Their tresses should not be allowed to flutter unrestrained, being agitated by every passing breeze and movement of the head, but should be confined by gathering them under, and loop- ing them behind the ear. For evening attire a white Camellia Japonica and buds might be placed advantageously amidst the " wavy locks," if they be of a raven hue ; if of a lighter shade a blush or pink rose might be substituted. We have felt surprise and regret that bodkins or pins are not more generally used in this country as ornaments for the hair, and we know not a more simply elegant coiffure than the national one of Ceylon. All its women, whether of high or low degree, draw their locks from off their brows, and twist them into a knot at the back of their head, the hair being maintained in form by tortoiseshell, silver, or golden pins. Two of these pins, somewhat the shape of an arrow, are inserted into the centre of the knot in a transverse direction, and one pin with a flat, semicircular head is placed on each side of the knot close to the head. Words will not convey an adequate idea of the exquisite effect produced by this style of ornamenting the head, which is as simple as elegant. These pins do not assimilate in the most remote degree with the bodkins used either by the Eussian, Swiss, or Italian peasantry, and are equally dissimilar to those worn by the Chinese ; and in no part of the globe in which we have been have we seen anything resembling them in form or beauty. The Cingalese pins are made either of carved tortoiseshell lined with silver (the glitter- ing of the white metal in the interstices of the perforations contrasting finely with the dark shell), of silver richly worked in chasing or filigree, or of embossed gold studded with precious stones. The tortoiseshell and silver pins vary in price from five rix dollars (7s. 6d.) to thirty rix dollars (£2 5s.). These are worn by the females in their ordinary attire, the golden pins being only used in full dress by the wives and daughters of the moodliars, or chiefs. These are extremely costly, their value being estimated by the weight of metal, perfection of workman- ship, and beauty of the gems wherewith the bodkins are studded. The Kandian ruby is con eidered by the natives of the island as the most valuable precious stone, and when these rubies are free from defects, either of colour or form, the wealthy Cingalese will give enormous prices for them. We knew a chief's wife whose four hair ornaments, studded with these gems, cost 3500 rix dollars. Starch should never be used in the laundiying of nightcaps, for it rubs out and makes the hair dusty. For the following notes on the general management of the hair we are indebted to a writer in "The Magazine of Domestic Economy:"—The first thing neces- sary to preserve the hair is general health of body, obtained by keeping the skin in perfect order. If the stomach be habitually over- loaded with food, over-excited by intemperance, especially of diet and strong drink, or weakened by sympathy with the skin in a relaxed and unhealthy state, there is always a tendency in the hair to drop off. The body must, therefore, be brought into a condition of the most healthy action. This is the first point. The next is to keep the hair itself in proper order. The epidermal scales of the skin of the head are permitted to accumulate in some individuals until they are difficult to remove. They are known by the name of scurf. When the head perspires freely this scurf is soon saturated with the perspired matter, which, sojourning near the roots of the hair, weakens its energy, and at times it will come off abundantly in the brush or comb. The skin of the head must, therefore, be kept perfectly clean, and in a state of proper tone. To effect this a brush should be used, thrice a day if possible, which is strong, not too close, and will penetrate through the hair to the skin. This application of the brush, on rising in the morning, should last fully half an hour, and if the hair belong to a lady, and be very thick and long, a quarter of an hour more should be devoted to brushing it, making in all three quarters of an hour. On dressing for dinner the brush should be applied to the head during five or six minutes, and for about ten minutes at night. It is often serviceable to rub into the hair in the morning, before the brush is applied, either hair powder or bran—it is almost immaterial which, though we think the first preferable. By either the removal of the scurf will be facilitated ; but the substance employed must be well brushed out. When the scurf is very tenacious, and the hair has been neglected, it may be removed by the following means:—The yolks of two eggs are beaten up with the juice of a lemon, and the mixture well rubbed into the hair, using a great deal of friction with the finger upon the skin of the head. The mixture is then washed off with abundance of lukewarm soft water, and the hair dried by a process we shall presently describe.HAI [ 14 J HAI A lady's long hair may be instantly dried by submitting it to the vapour of benzoin, ina- properly called a gum, but in reality a balsam, and usually known by the name of " gum benjamin." The lady should recline on a chaise lonrjue or a sofa, with her long hair hanging over the end. A pan containing two or three pieces of ignited charcoal is then placed under it, and a little powdered benzoin sprinkled upon the lighted fuel. The thick smoke which rises, and is strongly impregnated with benzoic acid combined with carbonic acid, rapidly absorbs the moisture in the hair, which should be previously well wiped with towels, so as to be as free from wet as possible, and in a few seconds the hair is perfectly dry, beautifully perfumed, and ready for the operation of the brush. This operation should never be neglected except in cases of illness, as the omission of the brushing of a single morning will leave an accumulation of scurf. Nightcaps are very injurious. By heating the head and keeping it at a feverish temperature, and by shutting out the air, they weaken the hair, and arouse a tendency to fall off, which is greatly aggravated if the body be in an abnormal condition, either from specific disease or from general neglect of the skin. Instead of night- caps, ladies, to keep their hair properly together during their repose, should wear a net over the hair, with meshes sufficiently large to permit the insertion of the tip of the finger. Men, whose hair is short, need no night- caps ; but with regard to the practice of sleep- ing with the head bare we must make an observation. It may serve as a caution to persons of uncleanly habits, and, under the same circumstances, is equally applicable to individuals of the other sex. If the hair is left unbrushed, so as to produce an accumulation of scurf, this soon becomes saturated with the natural exudation from the body called perspi- ration. Like all exhalations of animal matter, this is extremely poisonous. The head rubbing upon the pillow leaves upon it a portion of this scurf, which, if touched by the face when the pores are excited by the warmth of the bed, will cause absorption of some of the poisonous matter. The result will be pimples, often of a disgusting appearance. If the hair be kept perfectly clean and free from scurf, and brushed during ten minutes before going to bed, no evil arises from the cause just indicated. The ordinary comb is a necessary adjunct of the brush : it serves to disentangle and set the hair in proper form. The small-tooth comb is not needed except vermin exist, all other purposes being much better obtained by the brush, if of proper manufacture. When we say " vermin," although these are seldom found except in the heads of children who are not properly kept clean, or in those of the filthiest among the very lowest classes of the community, it may possibly happen that some casual circum- stance may bring vermin into the heads of the most cleanly. In such a case the small-tooth comb would be found of use; but the most effective mode of destroying them is to dissolve ten grains of bichloride of mercuiy (corrosive sublimate) in half a pint of distilled water, and wet the hair well with the solution. This lotion, however, must be used with caution, as it is a deadly poison if taken into the stomach. The hair of children should be as carefully cleansed as that of adults. Girls under twelve years of age should not be allowed to wear long hair, the premature growth of which, before the strength of body is developed, tends, with other causes, to impair the constitution, and con- sequently is detrimental to the future growth of the hair. When the hair of the head has been allowed to grow very long without cutting, the sepai'ate hairs are frequently observed to become thinner in substance. When this is the case the hairs break very readily. If at this time any single hair be examined by means of a microscope, it will be found split at the extremity into several divisions. This shows that it has grown beyond its strength. An inch or two, or the end of all the hair on the head, if very long, should be cut off, and the same thing, but in a less degree, repeated every two months until the strength of the hair is restored. By such a practice, com- bined with the use of the brush, and due care of the skin of the body, the hair may be made to grow to any length without losing its strength. Fineness and siikiness of the hair are esteemed as beautiful; but fineness must not be confounded with weakness. The hair, how- ever fine, of a healthy person, is as strong as if it were coarse ; but the thinness of substance of the hair, from ill-health of body or overgrowth, shows a want of strength and a tendency to break. One cannot be mistaken for the other. The use of oils and pomatums is often very advantageous. Besides the oil constituting the colouring principle, a white concrete oil exists in the hair, to which it communicates gloss and suppleness. The secretion of this oil is greater in some individuals than in others. Persons in whom it is the most abundantly secreted are generally much freer from scurf; they have less difficulty in cleansing their hair, which is always fine and silky ; and it will be found that they generally enjoy better health. They may almost dispense with the use of any unctuous substance. Nevertheless a little is necessary at times. Coarse hair requires more than fine, however healthy the possessor, for he has a lesat 15 ] HAI HAI secretion of the concrete oil. Individuals who perspire much from the head, or have abundance of scurf, and such as are of delicate health, require the use of oil or pomatum. The best manner of applying either is to keep a soft hair brush for this purpose, and, having the oil or melted pomatum on the palm of the hand, to impregnate with it the brush, which is then to be applied to the hair. When enough has been communicated to this the hard hair brush must be applied. The oil or pomatum should be put to the hair either in the morning, after the head has been cleansed with the brush, or during the operations of the toilet before dinner. Previously to brushing the hair at bedtime it should be well rubbed with a piece of flannel kept for the purpose, in order to extract the grease, which it will do effectually. In applying greasy substances to the hair we must strongly recommend that not more be used than is necessary to give it a gloss without making it appear greasy ; for, although a little oil nourishes the hair and assists its growth, an excess produces quite a contrary effect. This is so true, that nature secretes in very minute portions the concrete oil we have mentioned, which is considerably less in quantity than the oil that constitutes the colouring principle. .From this circumstance, and the admitted fact that the Creator has admirably adapted, in organised beings, as in every other part of his creation, each substance to meet the neces- sity for which he made it, we may reasonably infer that a sparing supply of unctuous matter is best adapted for the improvement of the hair. There are various perfumed unguents, poma- tums, and oils in use for this purpose. We might give recipes for more than a hundred had we either space or inclination to do so. We have observed that the white concrete oil obtained by analysis from the hair is not unlike spermaceti in appearance, and that it contains a more than usual pi'oportion of stearine, and less of oleine, the two principles of fat. Experiments have been made with difficulty upon this oil, which can be obtained only in very minute quantities; but by means of careful examination the fact we have stated appears undoubted. We have, therefore, attempted to use for the hair an unguent of spermaceti combined with other substances, and so prepared that it shall be softer than pomatum, but more concrete than oil. This preparation, when on the palm of the hand, is in an instant melted, and becomes a thin oil. In consequence of the success that has invariably attended its use we here give the recipe for its preparation :—Into a very clean and well-tinned stewpan put a pint of very fresh oil of sweet almonds; set it over a slow fire, and gradually melt in it Ijoz. of spermaceti and 2 ozs. of very fresh hog's lard. The heat must be barely sufficient to melt these substances, for a high temperature would make the oil rancid in a few days. When the whole is melted pour it into a china or earthenware basin, and when almost cold stir into it whatever essential oils will communicate the perfume you prefer; then put it into pomatum pots, and as soon as it is quite cold tie the paper over the pots. This unguent would be still better if oil of ben were substituted for oil of sweet almonds, and purified beef marrow for hog's lard ; but the oil of ben, which never becomes rancid, is by far the most expensive. The beef marrow is purified by gently boiling a quantity of it in water until the fatty part floats upon the liquid. This is then allowed to cool, and the purified matter removed. Alcoholic preparations may be sometimes applied with beneficial effect to the hair when an additional stimulus is required. Hair washes containing no spirit are useless. The spirituous liquid should be applied at night before going to bed, and after having wsei oil or pomatum during the day, the remains of which it will remove. The hair must be well wetted with the preparation, and then brushed until it is quite dry. Perhaps the best of these nostrums is honey water. HAIR : To Promote. (See Baldness.) The most celebrated compound for this purpose is Dupiiytren's pomade, which is thus made :— Beef marrow, 6 ozs.; nervine balsam, 2 ozs.; Peruvian balsam, 2 ozs.; oil of almonds, 1* oz.; extract of cantharides, 16 grains. Melt the marrow and nervine balsam with the oil, strain, add the balsam of Peru, and lastly the extract, dissolved in 1 drachm of rectified spirit. Nervine balsam is made by melting together 4 ozs. each of beef marrow and oil of maco, and adding 2 drachms of balsam of tolu, and I drachm each of oil of cloves and camphor, dis- solved in ^ oz. of rectified spirit. M. Guibourt says that no better than the following can be used :—Beef marrow, 1 oz.; nervine balsam, 1 oz.; rose oil, 1 drachm ; ex- ti'act of cantharides (dissolved in spirit), 6 grains. These pomades should be rubbed on the scalp once or twice a day for some weeks. If any sore- ness is produced they should be less frequently applied. HAIR BRUSHES are best, because most lasting, when made of dark or black bristles. If chosen for the whiteness and delicate appear- ance of their bristles, durability is sacrificed to obtain a better appearance. Hair brushes a-re best cleaned by means of a little common wash- ing soda dissolved in cold water. Hot water and soap both tend to soften the bristles. Never[ 16 ] HAL HAl rub the bristles in washing the brushes, but merely move the brush to and fro in the water until it is clean ; then rinse it in cold water, shake out as much of the water as you can by waving the brush, and then hang it up to dry. HAIR DYE. The best is known to French hair-dressers as pommade de jeunnesse, and is very effective in changing grey hairs to a dark colour. It is made by mixing thoroughly a small quantity of pearl-white (subnitrate of bismuth) with any common pomatum, and brush- ing a little daily into the hair. It is said to make the hair dark, and certainly would do no harm. Dr. Willich, who was opposed to all cosmetic applications to the hair, says that the hair will assume a darker colour by having it cut closely, and passing a leaden comb through it every morning and evening. HAIR POWDER, a barbaric compound, still applied sometimes to the heads of livery servants, and to prevent chafing in infants, is nothing but starch ground very finely and sifted. To give it a perfume, and form what is called by perfumers violet hair powder, mix together powdered orris root, 2 ozs. ; essence of hergamot, 1-Joz.; powdered musk, 1 grain. Rub these thoroughly together, and then do the same after adding 3 lbs. of powdered starch. HAIR, STIFFENING. (See Bandeline.) The following is employed by some London perfumers :—Finest picked gum tragacanth re- duced to a coarse powder, 1 oz.; rose water, 1 pint. Put them into a wide-mouthed vessel, and shake them together daily for two or three days; then strain with gentle pressure through fine linen or cambric. If required to be coloured infuse cochineal in the water employed before making the mucilage. Another form is —linseed (not bruised), a tea-spoonful; water, ^ pint. Boil for five minutes, and strain. Pommade Collante for False Curls. Melt together in an earthen pipkin 24 ozs. of fine Burgundy pitch and 8 ozs. of white wax, and add 1 oz. of pomatum. Remove from the fire, and add 4 ozs. of brandy or other spirit; replace it on the fire till it boils slightly, then strain through linen, adding hergamot or other perfume, and cast it into moulds. HAIR, SUPERFLUOUS. See Depilatory. HAKE : To Dress. Hake is cooked after the manner of cod, to which it is very inferior. HALIBUT. The best mode of preparing this fish is to fillet it, and if for eating imme- diately, to dredge it with flour, or else cover it with bread crumbs, after anointing it with a little melted butter or fat, or yolk of egg, and fry it of a light brown. It requires very little dressing, and is done almost immediately. It would be flavom-less if too much done. If any fillets are to ue kept cold let them be fried with- out flour or bread crumbs. The cold fillets are excellent when dressed in any of the modes directed for Cold Soles and Mackerel. Cold halibut may likewise form a very agreeable dish by the following process :—Cut potatoes into thin slices, and boil them very rapidly in salted water. When thoroughly done drain the water from them, and when they are quite dry mash them to a paste. Drain also and mash your cold halibut, which mix with the mashed potatoes, together with some chopped parsley, some pepper and salt, and some clarified butter. When tbe whole is incorporated and worked into a paste make it into small cakes, and fry these brown in clarified fat or butter; or else put the paste, made without parsley, into a buttered pan or baking dish, and set it on a stand close before the fire until the upper surface of it is brown. Halibut partakes somewhat of the flavour of the turbot, and grows to an enormous size, being sometimes caught weighing more than ] cwt. ; the best size is, however, from 20 lbs. to 40 lbs., as if much larger it is coarse. The most esteemed parts are the flakes over the fins and the pickings about the head; but on account of its great bulk it is commonly cut up and sold in collops, or in pieces of a few pounds weight, at a very reasonable rate. A small one cut in thin slices and crimped is very good eating. HALIBUT : To Boil. Take a small halibut, or what you require from a large fish ; put it into a fish kettle with the back of the fish undermost, and cover it with cold water, in which a handful of salt and a piece of saltpetre the size of a hazel nut have been dissolved. When it begins to boil skim it carefully, and then let it just simmer till it is done. It will require nearly half an hour to boil 4 lbs. of fish. Drain it, and garnish with horse- radish or parsley. Egg sauce or plain melted butter is served with it. HALIBUT : To Collop. Cut the fish into nice cutlets of about an inch thick, and fry them ; then put them into a broth made of the bones, four onions, a stick of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs, boiled together for half an hour. Strain this broth, thicken it, and stew the fish for half an hour, adding salt, pepper, a gi'ating of nutmeg, pounded mace, a spoonful of soy or fish sauce, and half that quantity of lemon juice, with a little shred lemon-peel. Or, the collops may be fried in batter, or with beaten eggs and crumbs of bread. Or, if made into cutlets, cut quite thin, and fried in sweet oil, without egg and bread crumbs, they are very good if eaten with sauce d la Tartare. HALIBUT, STEWED. Cut the fish intoHAM [ 17 ] HAM pieces about four inches square, of course omitting the bone. Season it slightly with salt, and let it rest for half an hour; then take it out of the salt, put it into a large deep dish, and strew over it a mixture of Cayenne pepper, ground white ginger, and grated nutmeg; lay among it some small pieces of fresh butter rolled in a grated cracker, and add half a pint of vinegar—tarragon vinegar if you have it. Place the dish in a slow oven, and let the halibut cook till thoroughly done, basting it frequently with the liquid. When nearly done add a large table-spoonful or more of capers or pickled nasturtiums. HAM: To Bake. Unless when too salt, from not being sufficiently soaked, a ham (particularly a young and fresh one) eats much better baked than boiled, and remains longer good. The safer plan is to lay it in plenty of cold water overnight; the following day soak it for an hour or more in warm water, wash it delicately clean, trim off smoothly all the rusty parts, and lay it, with the rind downwards, in a coarse paste rolled to about an inch thick; moisten the edges, draw, pinch them together, and fold them over on the upper side of the ham, taking care to close them so that no gravy can escape. Send it to a well-heated, but not fierce oven. A very small ham will require three hours' baking, and a large one five. The crust and the skin must be removed while hot. When part only of a ham is dressed this mode is far better than boiling it. HAM : To Bon,. Soak the ham according to its age for twelve or twenty-four hours; put it into a large saucepanful of cold water, and if a small one let it simmer for two hours, and then boil an hour and a half. When done pull off the skin, rub it over with the yolk of egg, strew bread crumbs over, and brown it before the fire or with a salamander. HAM : To CAiiVE. This may be cut three ways ; but the most common method is to begin in the middle by taking long slices in the direction of a to h, from the centre through the thick fat. This brings you to the prime at once, and by cutting a small hole on the top of the ham at c, and taking thence thin circular slices, the gravy is preserved, and the meat kept moist. The best and most economical way is to begin VOL. u. at the hock end, and proceed onwards. When used for pies ham should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. HAM : To Choose. In choosing a ham run a knife into it at the knuckle. If it comes out clean and smells sweet the ham is good ; but if, on the contrary, the blade of the knife is smeared and smells rank, it is not good. HAM : To Dress. If a ham has hung for a length of time put it into water for a night, and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stones sprinkled with water, two or three days to mellow, covering it with a heavy tub to keep any vermin from it. Wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water; let it simmer four, five, or six hours, according to its size. When done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water; take off the skin, and strew it all over with bread raspings. Garnish with carrot. Preserve the skin as whole as possible to keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. HAM : To Roast. Take off the skin, and soak the hani in lukewarm water two or three hours; put it into a pan, pour over it a bottle of white wine, and let it steep ten or twelve minutes. When spitted lay four or five sheets over the fat side, pour the wine into a pan, and baste the ham all the time it is roasting. As soon as it is done take off the paper, and dredge it well with crumbled bread and parsley; brown the ham before a brisk fire, and if it is to be served hot garnish with raspings of bread ; if cold, ynth. parsley. Lord Blaney, in his " Travels in Spain," speaks rapturously of a ham boiled in cham- pagne. HAM A LA BRAISE. Having taken the rind from a well-flavoured ham, soak it in cold water, and tie it into a proper shape ; take slices of ham and beef, beat and season them with spice and sweet herbs shred small, lay them in a saucepan, with onions, carrots, parsnips, sliced parsley, and scallions; put the ham on this, the fat side uppermost; cover it with slices of bacon, beef, roots, and herbs, as under ; put on the lid, close it tightly, and let it stand for twelve hours with fire above and below. Set it by till cool, untie, and strew bread crumbs on it. Pass a salamander over to brown it. If it be served hot pour on it the following ragout:—Toss up veal sweetbreads, livers of fowls, cocks' combs, mushrooms, and truffles in a little melted bacon ; then put in a little gravy, and simmer them for half an hour ; take off the fat, and add veal and ham cullis. HAM AND EGGS. Poach eggs, and then take two or three sHces of boiled ham; mince them finely with a gherkin, a little onion, some parsley, pepper, and salt. Stew the whole18 HAM HAM a quarter of an hour, serve up tlie sauce when it half boils, put the eggs into a dish, squeeze over them the juice of half a Seville orange or lemon, and pour the sauce upon them. HAM, ESSENCE OF. Take 3 lbs. or 4 lbs. of lean ham, cut it into pieces about an inch thick, and lay them in a stewpan with slices of carrots, parsnips, and three or four onions. Let them stew till they stick to the pan, but take care they do not burn; then by degrees pour in some good veal gravy, a few fresh mushrooms cut in pieces (or mushroom powder), truffles, morels, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust of bread; cover it closely, and simmer till pretty thick ; then strain it off for use. HAM A LA GELPaE. Take a fine-coloured, well-flavoured ham, trim it properly, cutting the large bone in the middle, take off the skin, and pare away a great part of the fat; then soak it in cold water for twelve hours if a young ham, but double that time if an old one, changing the water frequently. That period having expired, wrap it in a napkin, and put it into a braising-pan or a large saucepanful of water, with or without spices and herbs. Let it boil pretty fast at first; then keep it boiling gently for five or si.x; hours; then push in a lardiug- pin, and if it comes out easily the ham is sufficiently done ; let it stand till lukewarm, lay it in a deep dish, and cover it with a board, on which place about 15 lbs. When cold take off the napkin, trim it again carefully, and trace on the fat whatever ornament you may think proper; cover it all over with jelly, put it into the oven, or pass a salamander over it, not within eight or ten inches from it. Dish it, surround it with pieces of jelly, and place a rosette or palm branch of it on the top of the ham. HAM GRAVY. Take a deep saucepan, put into it a piece of fresh butter, several slices of ham, about six pieces of veal the size of a walnut, and two or three carrots cut in small pieces. Set these over a slow fire, and let them stand till they give out their juices, and the ham and veal become crisp and stick; then put in a little stock, and let it boil. In an hour's time add a glass of white wine, and leave it a quarter of an hour, when it will be suffi- ciently done ; take off every particle of fat, strain it into a pan, and set it by for use. HAM, GREEN. Rub your pork well with common salt, and let it lie all night; then make a pickle of brine as follows :—Take 2 lbs. of common salt, 1 lb. of bay salt, '2 ozs. of salt- petre, 1 oz. of sal prunella, and 1 lb. of brown sugar; pound them well, boil them in five pints of water, and when cold put in the ham. Let it lie on the rind side three days; then turn it every day for a fortnight, when it may he taken out and hung up. This pickle is equally good for tongues or raised beef. HAM LOAF. Soak a fine ham in cold water for one or two days according to age; then put it into a saucepan just large enough to hold it, with no more water than will cover it, and a pint of white wine; let it boil, skimming it carefully till done. When cold take out the hock, the under bones, and the skin ; pare away some of the fat, and trim it to an oval form as much as possible. Make a farce with the parings of the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs minced and pounded. Take a pan the size you wish to have your loaf, lay all over the inside a pretty firm paste, and then, having cut your ham into thin slices, place alternate layers of it and the farce in the pan until it is quite full; put a crust over the top, which must unite with that in which the ham is ; turn it over on a baking plate, flour it, and put it into a very hot oven for an hour and a half or two hours, according to its size. Serve it cold. HAM IN MARCHPANE. Take Bibs, of marchpane paste, knead it up with 1 lb. of loaf sugar to whiten it (and the longer you work them together the whiter it becomes), and cut it in two parts, one about 5 lbs. weight, and the other about 8 lbs. Put the latter aside; then take cinnamon, cloves, and bole armenia, of each ^ oz., pounded very finely; mi.t them with the largest portion, and add to it a sufficient quantity of red sandal to give it the fine colour of boiled ham. The whole being well mi.'ced, work it up in the form of a ham ; make several incisions in it witli a knife, in which insert very thin pieces of the white paste to represent veins of fat in the lean, and then close these places with your hands. Roll the white paste to about two or three inches thick, and having moistened the surface of your red paste with water, cover it with the white paste in imitation of the fat, taking care to make it thinner towards the knuclde and sides (as in real ham) than at the higher parts; then boil ^ lb. of chocolate in about a quarter of a pint of water, stirring constantly till it is tolerably thick ; dip a hair pencil into it, and do the ham over with it several times until it forms a kind of crust like a rind: this may be covered with crushed macaroons to resemble the rasped bread with which a boiled ham is generally covered. The chocolate must be kept warm whilst the latter operation is being performed, as otherwise it will become quite hard. The flavour is greatly improved by adding vanilla to the chocolate. HAM AU NATUREL. Take a fine large ham, and trim it in the following manner:— Take off the rind and every particle of yellowHAM HAM [ 19 1 that may be on the fat; take off also the end bone, cut the knuckle, soak the ham, and cook it as directed for Ham a la Gelee. When sufficiently done untie the napkin and take out the bone ; then tie it again, lay it in a deep dish, and let it cool; trim it, and do it over with raspings. Serve it on a napkin. HAM OMELET. Take a slice of boiled ham, mince it as small as possible, and mix it with a dozen eggs beaten with a little veal gravy. Fry it, keeping it of an equal thickness, in the usual manner. HAM PATTIES. Chop small about 6 ozs. of the lean of veal i-eady dressed, and half the quantity of ham; put them into a stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, the same quantity of veal stock, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, some Cayenne pepper and salt, a spoonful of essence of ham, and lemon juice. Stir the whole over the fire some time, and then make patties as before directed. The white meat of the breasts of chickens or fowls may be substituted for the veal. HAM PIE (I). Bone a fine ham, and trim it properly, taking care to cut off all the yellow fat; soak it accordirjg to its age. and then braise it on slices of beef, 1 lb. of bacon beaten in a mortar, the same quantity of lard and butter, and plenty of sweet herbs, roots, and whole pepper. When about three parts done take it out and let it cool; then make a thick raised crust, put the ham into it, with all the braise except the beef and herbs, and a large glass of brandy; bake it for an hour, and serve it cool. HAM PIE (a). Having soaked and boiled a small ham, and taken out the bone, trim the ham nicely so as to make it a good shape, and of the bone and trimmings make a rich gravy by stewing tbem in a saucepan with a little water, carefully skimming off the fat. Make a sufficient quantity of forcemeat out of cold roast chicken or veal, minced suet, grated bread crumbs, butter, pepper, chopped sweet marjoram or tarragon, and grated lemon-peel, adding the lemon juice and some beaten egg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. You may add some chopped oysters. Having made a standing crust, allowing to -2 lbs. of flour ^ lb. of butter and 1 lb. of minced suet, wetted to a paste with boiling water, put in the ham, moistening it with gravy, and fill in all the vacancies with the forcemeat, having a layer of forcemeat at the top and bottom ; then put on the lid, pinching the edges together so as to close them well; brush the paste all over with beaten yolk of egg, and then put on the ornamental flowers and leaves that have been cut out of the dough. Bake it three or four hours. It may be eaten warm, but is generally preferred cold. It keeps well if carefully secluded from the air. HAM, POTTED (1). Take lib. of cold, boiled, lean ham, and pound it to a fine paste with ^ lb. of the fat or some fresh butter ; season it to your taste with mace, allspice, pepper, and nutmeg, all in powder; press it into potting dishes, pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a cold place. HAM, POTTED (2). Take some cold ham, slice it, and mince it small, fat and lean together; then pound it in a mortar, seasoning it as you proceed with Cayenne pepper and powdered mace and nutmeg ; then fill with it a large deep pan, and set it in an oven for half an hour. Afterwards pack it down hard in a stone jar, and fill up the jar with lard; cover it closely, and paste a thick paper over the jar. If sufficiently seasoned it will keep well in winter, and is convenient for sandwiches or on the tea-table. A jar of this will be found useful to travellers in remote places. HAM, RAGOUT OF. Toss up a few slices of ham in a saucepan, and make a sauce of red wine, white pepper, a macaroon, cinnamon, and sugar, all pounded. Put the ham to this, squeeze in the juice of an orange, and serve it up. HAM ROASTED WITH MADEIRA. Take a fine Westphalia or Bayonne ham, para and trim it of as round a form as possible, take off the end bone, and remove the rind from the knuckle ; then lay the ham on a gridiron over the fire till you can take it up with ease, soak it if necessary, and put it into a pan, with slices of carrots and onions, thyme, bay leaves, and coriander; pour a bottle of Madeira or Xtres upon it, cover it with a clean cloth, close the pan as tightly as possible, and let it remain twenty-four hours ; then wrap the ham in a very thick paper, fasten it with paste so that it may be completely inclosed, tie it on a spiit, and put it to roast for three hours; then make a small hole in the paper, and pour in, by means of a funnel, the Madeira wine; paste paper over the hole, and let it roast another hour. When done take off the paper carefully, so that none of the gravy may escape, mix it with some reduced Espagnole, glaze the ham, and serve it. HAM ROLL. Make a farce with some ham fat and sweet herbs chopped very finely, and cut several thin slices of ready-boiled or roasted Westphalia ham. Have ready some French-roll dough, take a piece of it, flatten it with your hand to the size you want it, lay a slice of ham on it so as to cover it, spread some farce over the ham, and on that a piece of dough flattened as before; then ham, farce, and dough again, and so on alternately till the roll is as large as you wish it to be; cover the whole with dough, and bake it in a moderate oven. Do not cut it till cold. HAM SAUCE. When a ham is almost doneHAM HAN [ 20 ] pick all the meat that remains from the bone, leaving out any rusty part; beat the meat and the boue to a mash with a rolling-pin, and put it into a saucepan, with three spoonsful of gravy ; set it over a slow fii-e, and keep stirring it all the time to prevent its sticking to the bottom. When it has been on some time put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of veal gravy ; cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs strain off the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. HAM AND SPINACH. Take a ham dressed as directed for Ham au Natorel, put it on a sheet of paper, place it in a saucepan sufficiently large for it to go in with ease, and simmer it for two hours with the following in- gredients :—Two carrots, two onions, garlic, bay leaves, thyme, and parsley (all shred very smRll, and previously warmed up in butter), a bottle of white wine, and a spoonful of consomme. When these are half done strain the liquor over your ham, cover the saucepan, put fire on the lid, and let it simmer as above mentioned. When done glaze it several times lightly. Take some very green spinach tossed up in butter, with salt, nutmeg, mignonette, two spoonsful of reduced Espagnole, and a little of the ham liquor; lay the spinach thus prepared on a large dish, drain the ham, and slide it on the dish gently ; put a paper as usual round the knuckle, and serve it. HAM TOAST (l). Cut some crumb of bread into thin slices; then take au equal number of thin slices of ham, beat them well with a rolling-pin, and then soak them in warm water for about two hours ; take them out, dry them well, and put them into a saucepan, with a little bacon, a slice of veai, and half a glass of stock; let them boil for half an hour, and then add half a glass of veal blond. Fry your bread to a nice colour in some lard ; place it on a dish, and on each piece lay a slice of the ham ; then pour sauce over them. Take particular care to cut the ham as nearly as possible the size and shape of the bread. HAM TOAST (2). Grate a sufficiency of the lean of cold ham; mix some beaten yolk of egg with a little cream, and thicken it with grated ham; then put the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, and let it simmer awhile. Have ready some slices of bread nicely toasted (all the crust being pared off) and well buttered, spread them over thickly with the ham mixture, and send them to table warm. HAM WESTPHALIA. Rub your ham well with 4 ozs. of pounded saltpetre, and let it lie till the next day. Boil a quart of the strongest s'ale beer with bay salt, common salt, and brown sugar, of each i lb.; pour it whilst hot on the ham, rubbing it all over thoroughly; rub it in the same manner twice every day for a fortnight, turning it once a day. At the end of that time take out your ham, and hang it pi-etty high in the chimney, with a fire made of sawdust and horse litter (fresh every night), for three days and as many nights, after which hang them over a baker's oven, or any other dry place where there is smoke from a wood fire. Be sure you fill the hock bone with salt. HAM, YORKSHIRE. Beat the hams well, and mix half a peck of salt, 3 ozs. of saltpetre, ij- oz. of sal prunella, and 5 lbs. of coarse salt. Having rubbed the hams thoroughly with this, put them into a pan or tub, and lay what remains of the mixture over them. After lying three days hang them up; then put as much water to the pickle as will cover the hams, adding salt thereto till it will bear an egg; then boil and sti'ain it off. Next morning put your hams into the pickle, and keep them down, so that they may be thoroughly covered. After lying a fortnight take them out, rub them with bran, and dry them. This is the way to cure three hams, therefore to do only one the ingredients must be proportionably less. HAMBURG PICKLE. Take six gallons of soft water, 2 lbs. of common sugar, 6 lbs. of salt, and 4 ozs. of saltpetre ; boil all these together, strain the pickle, and when cold put in the beef, mutton, pork, or tongues. Keep the meat well covered with bi'ine, and in ten days it will be fit for use, or it may remain two mouths. The pickle should be boiled every six weeks, and well skimmed. This pickle will keep good nine months. All meat for boiling should be well washed and drained pi-eviously to putting into pickle. The meat will eat better and keep much longer. HAMELIN'S MASTIC CEMENT. This is an excellent waterproof cement for plastering outside walls. Mix together 50 parts of silicious sand, 50 parts of limy marl or any finely ground calcareous stone, such as that of Bath or Port- land, and 8 parts of litharge. When required for use grind this mixture up with linseed oil to the consistence of thick paint. Apply it to the wall by means of a brush, and before apply- ing it paint the wall over with linseed oil. The wall should be dry, and the cemeut put on in dry weather. HANDS may usually be kept from becoming rough by never exercising them in dirty work, never exposing them too long in the air when it is very cold, aiad dabbling as little as possible in very cold water or in soap water, but always washing in tepid water in which a little bran is mixed. It is necessary in some cases to take opening ruedicine to carry off the acrid salts of the blood, adopting also the use of soma[ 21 ] HAN HAN sweetened drink, such as the water of wild poppies, which is prepared by boiling gently for two or three minutes a pod or two of the flowers in a pint of water. Having shown how this inconvenience may be avoided the next point is to remedy it when it appears; and the best way to effect this is to wrap the hands up, on going to bed, in linen cloth done over with a little yolk of egg, or they may be rubbed with the following oint- ment :—Cream and deer's or goose grease, of each i oz ; white wax sufficient to make it stiff after melting over a slow fire. The hands must be smeared with this every night, and washed in the morning in tepid water with a little white wine in it. In some habits the hands assume the appear- ance of seal-skin, which deformity proceeds from a great dryness of the skin, and a sharp humour supplied by the cutaneous vessels, which spreads itself all over the surface of the hand, fretting the texture of the skin, and raising it up into little scales, which produce inequalities like those of a file or grater. Others have the skins of their hands chapped, that is to say, full of little chinks and crevices, in which, as in so many fuiTows, is heaped up a thick matter, which renders them so much the more deformed that no paste, whether dry or moist, is capable of taking it out. These chinks proceed commonly from neglecting to dry the hands after they have been wet, which is fre- quently the case with children. Bleachers of linen, and persons who follow similar occupa- tions, are very liable to the evil in this shape. The means of preventing the last two de- formities aie to shun carefully that which we have stated to be the cause of them, and to correct them the foilov/ing liniment will be found efficacious in most cases :—Melt } lb. of fine white wax with 1 oz. of the oil of St. John's wort, and apply this to the hands as often as you conveniently can, persevering for several weeks until the disease is cured. See Chapped Hands. The best remedy for clammy hands is to rub over them powdered dry club moss. Fruit and ink stains may be taken out by im- mersing the hands in water slightly acidulated with oxalic acid, or to which a little pearlash or chloride of lime has been added, observing after- wards to well rinse them in clean water, and not to touch them with soap for some hours, as any alkaline matter will bring back the stains, after their apparent removal by all the above sub- stances, except the last. The use of a little chloride of lime and warm water, or Gowlapd's lotion, will impart a delicate whitenfess to the skin; but the former should be only occa- sionally used, and should be well \vashed off with a little clean water to remove its odour. The use of a little sand or powdered pumice stone with the soap will generally remove the roughness of the skin frequently induced by exposure to cold. HANGING. 1. When a person is found suspended the cord must be instantly cut. The suspended body being gently taken down, every ligature ought to be removed, the head should be supported in an erect posture, and turned towards the left side. 2. Air must be blown upon the face, which should also be sprinkled with cold water. The gullet ought to be stimulated by a feather moistened with oil, and vinegar be applied to the nostrils, while the regions of the heart and throat are gently compressed. Further, the patient ought to be wrapped in warm flannel, or placed between feather beds, and a bladder, filled with tepid water applied to the pit of the stomach: the whole body may also be fomented, or immersed in the lukewarm bath. 3. Moderate friction with warm flannel, to be gradually increased on the left side. 4. The shower bath combined with friction. 5. Stimulating clysters, consisting of salt water and oil. None of these remedies, however, must be resorted to where the blood appears to be determined towards the heart and head. 6. As soon as the first symptoms of resuscita- tion become evident the blowing of air into the nostrils, and aspersion of cold water on the face, ought to be continued. Next, clysters con- sisting of a strong solution of emetic tartar ought to be administered, and the sugillations, or injured parts, be fomented with wine in which camomile flowers have been infused. Lastly, when the ability of swallowing is restored, the patient should take frequent draughts of vinegar diluted with cold water, and mild, cooling laxatives. HANOVER PUDDING. Cut up i lb. of fresh butter in half a pint of milk; set them over the fire till the butter is soft enough to mix thoroughly with the milk ; then take it off, and let it stand till lukewarm. Have ready four well-beaten eggs, and stir them hard into the butter and milk ; then add very gradually 1 lb. of sifted flour, and, lastly, stir in two large table-spoonsful of strong fresh yeast. Beat the whole very hard, cover the pan, and let it stand near the fire for three hours, or till the mixture is quite light. Have ready i lb. of Zante currants, picked, washed, and dried, or i lb. of fine raisins, seeded and cut in half. Dredge the fruit thickl}' with flour to prevent its sink- ing ; then mix it gradually into the pudding, with two large table-spoonsful of sugar, a tea spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a salt- spoonful of saleratus, or a small tea-spoonful of[ 2-2 ] II A 11 HAR bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a very little lukewarm water; stir the whole very hard, transfer it to a deep tin pan well buttered, and bake it thoroughly. Before it goes to table turn it out on a dish, and serve it up warm with any sort of nice sweet sauce. HARDNESS OF WATER. The "hardness" of water, as it is commonly teimed, is caused by some salt of lime which it contains. This is usually the sulphate of lime. Now, when soap is used in such water a double decomposition takes place ; the sulphuric acid of the sulphate of lime unites with the soda of the soap, and the fat of the soap unites with the lime of the sul- phate. This combination of fat and lime is in- soluble in the water, floating about in it in the form of curds, whereas the soap of soda is soluble in water, and will combine with the grease and dirt on the articles to which it is applied. To the salts of lime in the water the crust which lines long-used boilers and tea-kettles is owing. Those salts are kept dissolved in the water by the carbonic acid gas which it con- tains. This gas being driven off by heat, the calcareous salts fall from the water on to the sides and bottoms of the boilers and kettles, and the deposit soon hardens, like some limy cements, into a rock-like crust. When these salts of lime are very abundant in the waters of a spring, they so rapidly en- crust wood and other substances thrown into them as to have obtained the name of petrify- ing waters, because it was popularly believed that the waters turned all bodies into stone. The truth is that the calcareous or limy im- pregnation is kept dissolved in the water by an excessive quantity of carbonic acid gas which it contains. The gas escapes upon the exposure to the air, and the calcareous matter then separates from the water, and covers any solid body plunged beneath it. Such petrifying springs are in this country at Mat- lock, in Derbyshire; Knaresborough, in York- shire ; and Coton, in Cambridgeshire ; and on the continent at Auvergne and elsewhere. Water containing much calcareous matter is very objectionable for brewing and tea-making. It combines with the extractive matters of the malt and tea, rendering them insoluble. A little carbonate of soda added to the water prevents this by decomposing the sulphate of lime, the usual cause of hardness in water, and then the lime separates from the water.—(Johnson's Chemistry of the World.) HARE. This animal should be kept five or six days, or even a week, before it is dressed, as the flesh then becomes dark and soft; but when fresh killed it is stiff and pale. Of an old hare the opening of the lip is wider than that of a young cue. The latter may likewise be distin- guished by the ears being tender and pliable, and the claws smooth and shai-p, whereas iu an old one the former are dry and tough, and the latter blunt. As soon as the cook receives the hare she should take out the liver, &c., wipe it well, put iu a little pepper, and hang it up. When wanted for di-essing cut off the legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back, and draw it over the hind legs, leaving the tail whole ; then draw the skin over the back, and slip out the legs ; cut it from the neck and head, skin the ears, and leave them on ; clean the vent, cut the sinews under the hind legs, bring them forward, run a skewer through one hind leg, the body, and the other hind leg. Do the same with the fore legs, lay the head rather back, and put a skewer in at the mouth, through the back of the head, and between the shoulders; put in the stuffing, and tie it round with a string, passing it over the legs to keep them in their places. The hare is then ready for roasting. HARE . To Boil. Take a marrow bone with a good deal of beef on it, a piece of bacon, find a hare ; put them into some salt and water, and then boil. When the hare is nearly done take it out; bruise some peas, and boil them in the broth ; take out the bone of beef, put in the hare, and boil again till the peas are done ; then strain, and put the pui'ee aside ; lay the hare in a dish, pour the puree over it, and serve. HARE : To Carve. Insert the point of the knife under the shoulder in the direction a, and then cut all down the rump in the line a b. Do the same on the other side, by which process the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, as e d, which with the legs is most esteemed. Cut the shoulder off circularly as a e g, lay the pieces on the dish as they are taken off, and then help the company, giving some stuffing and gravy to each. If the hare is old it cannot be thus divided ; therefore in that case put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the joint, which must be hit, and not broken by fores.HAR HAR When the legs are separated a fine collop will be found on each side of the back; then divide the latter into as many pieces as you think proper, and take off the shoulders, which are commonly called the sportsman's pieces, and with many obtain the preference. After helping all round cut off the head, put the knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them; then place the point of the knife in the centre, and part the head in two. The ears and brains may then be helped to those who choose them. HARE : To Fry. When a hare is skinned lay it on a gridiron till hot through, and then quarter and fry it to a nice colour in lard. Soak some toasted bread in beef stock and white wine, with pounded ginger and cloves ; strain it, add a little verjuice, and serve up the hare with butter, sugar, mustard, and lemon juice. Gar- nish the dish with greens and sliced lemon HARE: To Stew. Lard and stuff a hare, and put it into a stewpan, with two quarts of good gravy, one of port wine, a lemon sliced, a bundle of sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and half a dozen cloves; cover it closely, and let it stew over a slow fire till three parts done ; then take it out, and place it in a dish. Mix together bread crumbs, sweet herbs shred small, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and strew these over the hare. HARE : To Truss Having cut off the four legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back and draw it over the hind legs ; leave the tail whole, draw the skin over the back, and slip out the fore legs; cut the skin off the neck and head, but take care to leave the ears on, and mind to skin them. Take out the liver, lights, &c., end be sure to draw the gut out of the vent. Cut the sinews that lie under the hind legs, bring them up to the fore legs, put a skewer through the hind leg, then through the tore leg under the joint, run it through the body, and do the same on the oth«r side Put another ekewer through the thick part of the hind legs and body, place the head between the shoulders, and run a skewer through to keep it in its place; put a skewer in each ear to make them stand erect, and tie a string round the middle of the body over the legs to keep them in their place. HARE, BOUDIN OF. To make this dish the fillets must only be used. Take away all the nerves and sinews, and then pound the meat; rub it through a quenelle sieve, roll it up, and set it aside. Proceed in the same manner with a calf's udder. Soak the crumb of a small loaf in broth, and when soft squeeze . out all the moisture; pound the bread, and rub it through a quenelle sieve; then take equal portions of these articles, pound them together, and mix with them eome dried sweet herbs in powder, a little spice, salt, and pepper; then, according to the quantity of farce you have, put three or four y6lks and one white of egg, so as to make it easy to work up; flour the table, put the farce on it, roll it into the boudin, and poach it in boiling water like the quenelles ; dip it in butter, bread it, and about a quarter of an hour before serving broil it over a moderate fire; pass a salamander over to colour it, and serve it quite dry. It may also be served without poaching, in which case it must be glazed and laid on a fumet of game. If you have not a calf's udder to pound with it fresh butter is a good substitute ; take care, however, to use double the quantity of it. HARE ALA BOURGEOISE. Skin and cut a hare m pieces, and lard them with large lar- dons rolled in parsley, scallions, garlic (all shred finely), aud salt; stew them with half a glass of brandy and 2 ozs. of butter over a slow fire. When nearly done, and the sauce partly con- sumed, pour in the blood, having preserved it for that pui-pose, keep it on the fire till this is quite hot, but not boiling; then take out the hare, and lay the pieces on a dish so closely that they may look like one; let it stand till cool, and then serve. HARE A LA BROCHE. Your bare being properly prepared for dressing, set it on a hot stove to make the meat rather firm before you lard it. When you remove it from the stove dip your hand in the blood, and pass it over the back and legs; then lard to the end of the legs, leaving about an inch between the loin and the leg; then roast it (an hour is sufficient), and serve it with the following sauce :—Mince the liver very small whilst raw, and give it a few turns in a little butter, with a few shallots, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, a tea- epoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, and two of broth. Stir this sauce till it boils, and add salt and pepper; then reduce it to nearly half, and rub it lightly through a sieve into a tureen. HARE CAKE. Take equal quantities of hare's liver, lean ham, and rasped bacon ; prepare the farce as directed for Farcing, add the blood and the juice of a clove of garlic, and cover a mould or stewpan of a proper size with slices of bacon; put in about two inches of farce, cut long, large fillets of cooked bacon, truffles, pistachios, or almonds, and lay them all one way over the farce ; or, if sweets are liked, fillets of dates or fine prunes may be put in instead of truffles; put in more farce, cover as above, and so continue to fill the mould. The fillets may all be laid one way. Cover it over with slices of lard, and put on the cover of the mould ; set it upon an oven leaf, that the bottom may not take too soon, and leave it from three11A R HAB [ 24 ] to four hours baking according to its size; press it down, and leave it in the mould. When to be used heat it, turn it upon the dish, and take the lard off carefully. Garnish it with red currant jelly, or cover it with an aspic of red ox-heel jelly seasoned with port wine and sugar. All kinds of poultry, game, venison, and fish cakes are made as above. HAKE CAKE IN JELLY. Bone a hare, take all the sinews from the meat, and then pound it with an equal quantity of beef; add mushrooms, shallots (garlic if you please), sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, pickled cucumber, bacon cut into dice, and two or three eggs. Mix all these together. Line a mould with thin slices of bacon, put in the hare, &.C., cover it with bacon, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cold turn it out, place it on a dish, and pour over it a jelly made as follows ;—Take 1^ lb. of scrag of veal, a slice of ham, two or three cloves, sweet herbs, a carrot or two, shallots, two bay leaves, and 1 oz. of isinglass ; stew these in some beef broth till reduced to a jelly, and add some lemon juice, strained first through a sieve, and then through a jelly bag. When cold pour it over the cake, and serve. HARE AU CHEVREUIL. Take a fine hare, skin it, and cut off the head and shoulders ; beat it flat, and carefully cut the skin from the back and most prominent parts of the rump, which places lard with small pieces of fat bacon previously soaked in vinegar and water, with carrots, onions, parsley, bay leaves, garlic, whole pepper, and salt. Let the hare remain in this for two days, then spit it, and baste it well while roasting. When done place it on a dish, and set it in the oven while you glaze the larded parts. Reduce two spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and five or six spoonsful of plain sauce, and when it boils mix in a little glaze, a piece of butter, and the juice of half a lemon ; pour this sauce round the hare, and serve it. HARE EN CIVET. Make a roux, in which put rather more butter than usual. When about three parts done put in some pieces of streaked bacon, give them a few turns, and then add the hare cut in pieces. When they have been in a little while pour on them a bottle of white or red wine, or a glass of vinegar, some stock or water, a small quantity only of salt, as the bacon ought to impart a little saltness, pepper, two bay leaves, parsley, scallions, and mush- rooms. Take care that the meat floats in the liquor, and set it over a large fire, that it may reduce quickly to three quarters of its original quantity. Have ready some small onions, peeled and lightly fried in a little butter, and put them into the civet when nearly done. In about twenty or twenty-five minutes take it off, and keep it warm in hot ashes till it is wanted for table. HARE, COLLARED. Bone a hare, wine it well, and sprinkle it with port or white wine, and a little gai'lic vinegar. Make a farce of the liver and lights with bacon, and spread it upon the hare; roll it up, with the head look- ing back, which must not be boned ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with bacon, put in a little fine ale or as much stock, bruise the bones, and add carrots, turnips, onions, parsley, sweet herbs, and spices ; simmer slowly for two houi's, reduce part of the braise to glaze, and to make the sauce add the blood. HARE EN DAUBE. Put a boned hare into a braising-pan, with salt, pepper, carrots, onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, equal quantities of broth and white wine, the bones of the hare, half a knuckle of veal, and thin slices of bacon, having lined the pan previously with the same. Braise it over a small fire for an hour and a half; then take it out, and strain the liquor; reduce, and serve it over the hare. This dish may also be served cold with jelly. HARE, FILLETS OF (with Anchovies"). Cut the fillets from one or two hares, and lard them with anchovies soaked in water and in slips for the purpose ; simmer the fillets between two dishes for about half an hour, with butter, pepper, and half a dozen shallots. When done place them on a dish, but keep them hot; put to the shallots a little cuUis, a table-spoonful of verjuice, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; keep this on the fire till tolerably thick, pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve them. HARE, FILLETS OF (Larded). When the hare is skinned run the knife along the back- bone from the shoulder to the leg, and remove the fillets; lai'd them with bacon, and form them according to your taste. Put some slices of bacon into a saucepan, also some slices of onions and carrots, and a little thyme and bay leaf; lay the fillets on this, add a little consomme, and stew them about three quarters of an hour. Having covered them with buttered paper, close the stewpan, and put fire on the lid. When done glaze them. Serve them on cucumbers d la creme, a poivrade, or anything else you choose. HARE, FILLETS OP (Sautks). Take ten fillets of hare, cut them into slices, flatten them with a knife, trim them to as round a shape as you can, and as each piece is done put it into a tossing-pan; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; add a little melted butter, and put your pan over a fierce fire, moving it about to prevent the pieces from sticking. As soon as one side is done turn and do the other, then put them in a dish, take out the butter, but not the gravy, from the pan, and put to it a glass of white wine and four ladlesful of Espagnole; reduce them - to half, and then[ 25 ] HAR HAR strain over the fillets. Take care to drain the fillets from their gravy, so that the sauce may not be too clear. It ought properly to adhere to them. HARE HARICOT. Prepare a hare as for roasting, cut it in pieces, which put into a sauce- pan lined with streaked bacon; add turnips, salt, peppei", sweet herbs, and half a pint of good stock, or boiling water only. Let it stand closely covered over a small fire, and when nearly done throw in about thirty pieces of fried bread; skim off the fat, put it in a hot dish, and squeeze lemon juice over it. HARE, HASHED. Skin and stuff a hare, tie some thin slices of bacon over, and spit it; set it before the fire, and half roast it; then take it up, cut it in pieces, and having made some good beef gravy, put in the hare. Sim- mer it for two hours; then add a glass and -a half of port wine, let it stand a little while longer over the fire, and serve it with cuiTant jelly- HARE HOTCHPOTCH. Cut a hare in pieces, and put them into a jug, with a lettuce, cucumbers, turnips, and celery. Put a little spice into it. It is only serviceable for an old hare that will require five hours' boiling. HARE, JUGGED. Having skinned a hare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and divide the back into three pieces; rub them well with fat bacon, and put them into a stewpan, with the trim- mings, allspice, mace, whole pepper, a small clove of garlic, two bay leaves, three onions, parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, a quart of veal stock, and three gills of port wine. Simmer the whole till three parts done; take out the shoulders, legs, and back ; put them into another stewpan, strain the liquor to them, add a little flour and butter, and stew them till quite done ; take off the fat, season with Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice, and serve the whole in a deep dish. HARE LOAF.. Make a farce in the same manner as for Haee (Boudin of), with the addition of the liver pounded and rubbed through a quenelle sieve. Take a mould of the size you wish to have the loaf, line this completely with thin slices of-bacon, and then put in the farce. Have ready a saucepan with boiling water, put the mould into it, but do not let the water come within an inch of the top of it; lay thin slices of bacon over the hare, cover the sauce- pan, and put on the lid. Let the water simmer, and in about an hour see if it is sufficiently done; if so, take it from the mould, glaze, and serve it with a fumet of game sauce. If you think proper make a hole in the top, into which put the kidneys of the hare, previously dressed in a litile champagne. HARE, MOCK. Cut out what the French cclW the Jilet, and the Scotch and English the side of a sirloin of beef; let it be done with a sliarp knife, that it may not be ragged ; steep it in port wine or red vinegar, cut it open, and farce with" a hare farce. Make it into the shape of a hare, roast it upon a bird spit, and let the fire be brisk, but not fierce ; baste with a bruised clove of garlic put in to the wine and vinegar, and afterwards with butter and a little mace; take up the gravy that is in the dripping-pan, work it well with melted butter, and put it into the dish. Serve it with any of the venison sauces. This is much tenderer and better than most liRrG9 HARE WITH OLIVES. The hare being skinned, cut it in pieces, and lard the legs and fillets with small lardons ; braise the pieces, but when about three parts done take them out, and put them into a saucepan ; then take the gravy of the hare mixed with the blood of a chicken, soak liver in it, pound, and then add it, with the gravy and fifty olives, previously soaked and scalded, to the hare. Set it on a slow fire until the olives are tender, put the whole into a dish, squeeze lemon juice over, and serve very hot. HARE PIE. Cut a hare in pieces, and season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; put them into a jug with | lb. of butter, cover it closely, and set it in a large saucepan of boiling water. In the meantime make a forcemeat with } lb. of scraped bacon, two onions, a glass of red wine, the crumb of a small loaf, a little sweet marjoram, and a liver minced small; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and mix the whole to- gether with the yolks of three eggs. Make a raised crust, at the bottom of which lay some of the forcemeat, and then some of the hare ; put forcemeat on them, and so on till the hare is all in ; add the gravy from the hare, cover the pie, and bake it for an hour and a half. HARE, POTTED. Skin and wash a hare perfectly clean, cut it in pieces, and put them into a jar, with butter, pepper, salt, mace, and herbs if you choose ; tie it over, and set it in the oven with the bread. When done take the meat from the bones, and pound it with the fat which comes from the gravy to a fine paste; press it down closely in pots, and cover it with clarified butter. HARE, RAGOUT OF. Skin and take all the bones from a hare that has hung some days, leaving the head untouched ; lay it open on the table, strew pepper and salt, and spread a good forcemeat over; roll it up close to the head, tie it up, and stew it in a clear braise, which must be reduced to half the quantity; add half a bottle of port wine, and stew till the hare is done ; then take it out, and put to the liquor a little plain sauce. Reduce the whole to a proper con- sistence, add truffles, tnorels, mushrooms, cocks'HAR [ 26 ] HAR combs, fat livers, forcemeat balls, and artichoke bottoms. A little lemou juice may be added. Serve tbe hare with this sauce. HARE, ROASTED. When the hare is trussed and stuffed cover it with thin slices of bacon, tie them on, and baste with dripping. Some persons prefer stale beer. Likewise add an anchovy, a glass of red wine, and an egg to the stuffing. [Serve the hare with gravy and melted butter. HARE EN SALMIS. Take a cold roasted hare, and chop it into small pieces ; cut a large onion into dice, and fry it of a good colour in butter, with a bay leaf; add about two spoons- ful of flour, and when it is well mixed with the butter put in a quart of gravy, set it on the fire, and keep stirring till it boils; then put in the hare, and set the saucepan by the side of the fire to simmer for another half an hour. When done squeeze in the juice of a lemon and a small quantity of Cayenne, and serve it. HARE AU SANG. Skin and parboil a hare, take off the skin, cut off" all the meat, and mince it very small ; cut some pork leaf into dice, and slice some onions; mix these together, and toss them up over the fire. When the leaf begins to melt pour on it a pint of pig, lamb, or calf's blood; put in the minced hare, and set this on the fire. When the whole is of a tolerable consistence place two cauls open on the table, laya large slice of bacon on them, jnit in the hare, &c., cover it with another large slice of bacon, gather up the cauls, and form the mass as nearly as possible to the resemblance of a hare; tie it up and bake it. When done clear away the fat, and serve it. HARE, SAUCE FOR (1). Take a quarter of a pint of claret or port wine, the same quantity of plain mutton gravy, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly; boil up, and send it to table. HARE, SAUCE FOR (2) Put some cur- rant jelly into a stewpan, and when it is melted pour it into a sauce boat. Some persons prefer sending it to table without melting it. H ARE SOUP (1). Take an old hare, cut it in pieces, and put thereto 1| lb. of lean beef, two or three shank bones of mutton, a slice of lean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, over which pour two quarts of boiling water. Cover the jug into which these are put with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water ; simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces, strain off the liquor, and give it one boil with an anchovy cut small, adding a spoonful of soy, a little Cayenne, salt, and a few forcemeat balls fried brown. It should be served in the tureen- HARE SOUP (2). Take a large hare, cut it in pieces, and put them into an earthen vessel, with three blades of mace, two large onions, a little salt, a red herring, six large morels, a pint of port wine, and three quarts of water; bake the whole three hours in a quick oven, and then strain oif the liquor into a stew- pan. Previously to this boil 4ozs. of French barley, and put it into the liquor; scald the liver, and rub it through a cullender with a wooden spoon; put it into the soup, and set it over the fire; keep it stirring till it is about to boil, and then take it off immediately: put some crisped bread into the tureen, and pour the soup into it. HARE SOUP (3). Wash a large hare, cut it in pieces, laying aside two or three of the choicest parts of the back, and the fleshy joint of the legs; put the remainder into a kettle, with a knuckleof veal,a buncliof sweet herbs, some salt, and five quarts of water. Stew these for three or four hours, and then strain off the gravy ; put it into a pan with the pieces of the hare which were left out, and stew gently till they are done; thicken with flour and butter, and some force- meat balls, adding, before serving up, half a pint of port or Madeira wine. The pieces of the hare may be fried just brown in butter before they are put into the soup to stew. A large old rabbit may be substituted very well instead of a hare. HAEE A LA ST. DENIS. Having skinned and otherwise prepared the hare, cut off" tbe liead, season some lardons to lard the loins and legs, and lay it for two or three days in a pau witb salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, scallions, and two onious cut in slices. When ready for dressing take the liver, mince it with an equal quantity of bacon, and add salt, pepper, and a little pbunded spice. To this put twice as much quenelle farce; mix them together with the yolks of three eggs, stuff" the body of the hare with it, and sew up the skin. Lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, place the hai-e on them, and cover with bacon; put round it some slices of veal, two carrots cut in slices, three onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, thyme, bay leaves, cloves, a little salt, and a bottle of white wine ; simmer these for two houi-s, or more, according to the age of the hare. When done drain and glaze it; then reduce the liquor to a jelly, and add to it two ladlesful of Es- pagnole. If it should be too highly seasoned put to it 1 oz. of butter and a little lemon juice; pour this sauce into a dish, and serve the hare on it. HARE, STEWED. Having skinned the hare, divide it just below the ribs, cut the fore part into pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, pepper- corns, an anchovy, and a bunch of sweet herbs; add sufficient water to cover them, and let them stew gently. In the meanwliile make a goodI f; 27 ] HAR stuffing, which put into the other part, tie it np, lard and roast it, flour it well, and baste with either butter or small beer. When the stew is tender take out the meat, and strain the liquor; add to it a glass of red wine, a spoonful of catsup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, and stir it over the fire till pretty thick; take up the hare, lay it in a dish, place the stewed pieces round it, and pour the sauce over. Have some good gravy in a sauce tureen. HARE, STUFFING FOR. Take 2 ozs. of beef suet chopped finely, 3 ozs. of bread crumbs, 1 drachm of parsley, i drachm of shallot, 1 drachm of marjoram, thyme, or winter savory, the same quantity of grated lemon-peel, i drachm of nutmeg, and as much pepper and salt; mix the whole with the yolk and white of an egg till it is thoroughly stiff, put it into the hare, and sew it up. If the liver is sound it may be parboiled, minced finely, and added to these ingredients. HARES' EARS. Take as many pairs of ears as your dish will contain, scald them well, and braise them till tender; then add a glass of wine and a slice or two of lemon. When done take them out, dip them in a thick batter, and fry them. Serve them with any relishing dish. HARICOT MUTTON (V). Cut the middle or best end of a neck of mutton into chops, and put the fat of the same into a pan with flour; then fry them of a light brown, take them out, aud lay them on a dish while you do the carrots, turnips, and sliced onions in the same manner. Put the steaks into a stewpan, with the vege- tables over them, and cover the whole with boil- ing water; let them boil up, skim, and set the pan by the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender; take off the fat, and season the gravy with pepper, salt, and catsup. HARICOT MUTTON (2). Cut the best end of a neck or loin of mutton that has been kept till tender into chops of an equal thickness, one rib to each : trim off some of the fat and the lower end of the chine bone, scrape it clean, lay them in a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter, and set it over a brisk fire. If the fire is not brisk the chops will be done before they are coloured. The intention of frying them is merely to give them a very little browning. While the chops are browning peel and boil a dozen young button onions in about three pints of water for fifteen or twenty minutes, set them by, and pour off the liquor they were boiled in into the stewpan with the chops. If that is not sufficient to cover them add as much boiling water as will remove the scum as it rises, and be careful that they are not stewed too fast or too much, so take out one of them with a fish slice, and try it. When they are tender, which will be in about an hour and a half, pass the gravy through a sieve into a basin, set it in the open air that it may get cool, and you may then easily and completely skim off the fat. In the meantime set the meat and vegetables by the fire to keep hot, and pour some boiling water over the button onions to warm them. Have about 6 ozs. of carrots and 8 ozs. of turnips peeled and cut in slices, or shaped into balls about as large as a nutmeg; boil the carrots half an hour, and the turnips about a quarter of an hour; set them on a sieve to drain, and then put them round the dish the last thing. Thicken the gravy by putting 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, and when it is melted stir in as much flour as will stiffen it; pour the gravy to it by degrees, and stir together till it boils ; strain it through a fine sieve or tamis into a stewpan, put in the carrots and turnips to get warm, and simmer gently while you dish up the meat. Lay the chops round a dish, put the vegetables in the middle, and pour the thickened gravy over. Some put in capers, minced gherkins, &c. HARICOT SOUP. Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, and put the scrag into a stewpan with a quart of water, four large carrots, and turnips. Boil it gently over a slow fire till all the goodness is gone out of the meat, and then bruise the vegetables into the soup to thicken it. Fry six sliced onions in butter, put the other part of the meat to the soup, and stew till the latter is tender ; season with pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a tureen. HARICOT VEAL. Take the best end of a neck of veal, cut the bones short, but leave the rest of the joint whole, and put it into a stewpan, with enough brown gravy to cover it. While this is doing stew in some good broth a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, with two cabbage lettuces quartered. When done put the whole together, and simmer ten minutes. Serve the veal and sauce in the same dish with the vegetables, and lay around forcemeat balls. HARICOTS. In cooking haricots soak them in cold water for a few hours, and they will cook in a much shorter time; but in all cases the flavour is much improved by pouring away the water when they are partly cooked, and adding fresh hot water. The following are the best modes of cooking them :— 1. Boil them gently for one hour, and then pour away the water; add clean hot water, and boil them till tender, which will be about one hour more ; then use them in the same manner as green peas, that is, with a slice of cold butter and pepper, or with gravy, or melted butter and parsley. 2. Boil them as above till thoroughly soft, strain, dry, and put them down before the fire, under a roasting joint of meat or poultry, till theyHAR HAR r 28 ] become slightly browned. Cooked in this way they will be found a very excellent and sub- stantial dish, care being taken that they do not get too dry. 3. Boil as before, and strain dry ; then put them into a frying-pan, with slices of bacon, ham, or pork ; slightly brown them, and serve up together ; or some will add a few thin slices of onion to make a more savoury dish. 4. In stews, hashes, or haricots it is best first to boil till the skins begin to crack ; then strain, put them into the stew or hash, &c., and cook thoroughly. HARRISON CAKE. Five cupsful of flour, two cupsful of molasses, one cupful and a half of butter, four eggs, a cupful of milk, spice, 2 lbs. of raisins, and a tea-spoonful of saleratus. HARROWGATE WATER. Harrowgate, situated in an agreeable countiy, ornamented with a variety of elegant seats, in the centre of the county of York, and adjoining to the town of Knaresborough, has long possessed con siderable reputation by containing very valuable chalybeate and sulphureous springs. Some time ago the former were confined to internal, and the latter to external use. At present the sulphureous springs are employed largely as an internal remedy likewise. The water, when first taken up, is perfectly clear and transparent, and sends forth a few air bubbles. It has a strongly fetid smell like rotten eggs, and has a nauseous, bitter, and saline taste; but such is the power of habit'in reconciling the palate to the most disagreeable flavour, that most persons soon drink this water without disgust. On exposure to the air it loses its transparency, and becomes pearly and greenish; at the same time the sulphureous odour abates, and the sulphur is precipitated. Its specific gravity is r0064. Its foreign contents are, in a wine gallon,— Grains. Chloride of sodium . . 616-5 Cliloride of calcium 13- Chloride of magnesium . 91- Carbonate of lime 18-5 Carbonate of magnesia 5-5 Sulphate of magnesia . 10'5 7540 Cubic inches. Carbonic acid gas . 8 Azotic gas . . . 7 Sulphuretted hydrogen . . 19, U This analysis shows that the HajTowgate water is very compound in its composition, holding in solution a number of purgative salts, with ope-twejfth of its bulk of sulphuretted hydrogen, or hepatic gas. To this combination of active principles it seems to owe its valuable properties, but particularly to the sulphuretted hydrogen gas, which has a powerful action on the secretory organs resembling that of mercmy, but without any of its injurious effects. Harrowgate water is, therefore, an excellent alterative, and particularly well calculated for those diseases where such an operation is re- quired, as elephantiasis, leprosy, all those pimply eruptions called in popular language scorbutic, and for every other cutaneous disorder; for painful contractions of limbs, the remains of rheumatism, gout, or palsy; for scrofula, for some other morbid effects of atmospherical impression, for various obstructions of the liver and other organs connected with the alimentaiy canal, and for all affections arising from a depraved condition of the body. The virtue of sulphur as a mild unirritating aperient has caused this water to be esteemed as a valuable remedy in piles and fistula in ano, and its character of being a poison to intestinal worms has brought it into use as a safe and powerful anthelmintic. When thus emploj'ed it should be in such a dose as to piove a brisk purgative. In cases of ascarides it may be used in the form of a clyster. The dose of this water is generally such a quantity as produces a sensible effect on the bowels. Three or four glasses, containing half a pint each, taken at moderate intervals, are usually found sufficient. They should be drunk fresh from the spring, and cold, for the sul- phureous impregnation is dissipated by heating. Sugar comfits and aromatic seeds are frequently eaten to coiTect the nauseous taste of the water; but Dr. Garnet recommends a small quantity of sea-biscuit or coarse bread as more effectual, without cloying the stomach. The duration of a course of Harrowgate water necessarily varies according to the nature and inveteracy of the disease. The warm sulphureous baths should be con- joined with the internal use of the water, which should, in all diseases requiring a powerful determination to the skin, be taken warm, and repeated at proper intervals, to assist the full perspiration pi'omoted by the bathing. For the same purpose the invalid should be wrapped in flannel, and confined for some hours in bed. These baths being artificially heated, some of the sulphuretted hydrogen gas, on which their activity depends, is thereby lost. They are consequently inferior to the natural warm baths on the continent, the waters of which, receiving the temperature within the earth under circum- stances of great pressure, suffer no material loss of hepatic gas when immediately used. During the use of this natural remedy tneHAR C 29 ] HAS habits of life should be regular, and the diet light and nutritive. HARSLET, PIG'S. Wash and dry some liver and sweetbreads; then beat some fat and lean pieces of pork till the meat is tender ; season with salt, pepper, sage, and onion, and when thoroughly incorporated put the whole into a caul, and fasten it tightly. Roast it by a hanging-jack or string. For sauce boil some port wine, water, and mustard, and put it into the dish. HARTSHORN CREAM. Boil Jib. of hartshorn shavings in three pints of water. When reduced to half a pint strain it through a jelly bag, put it to a pint of cream and J lb. of powder sugar, and give them one boil to- gether ; then put it into cups or glasses, and let them stand till cold, when turn them out on a dish. Stick some sliced blanched almonds on the top of each. White wine and sugar are usually eaten with them. HARTSHORN FLUMMERY. Boil ^ lb. of hartshorn shavings in three pints of water till reduced to a pint, strain it into a basin, and set it by till lukewarm ; then put to it a pint of thick wine, two spoonsful of oi-ange-flower water, and a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to sweeten it. Stir all these together till well mixed, dip the moulds in warm water, and put in the flummery. When cold turn them on a dish, with cream, white wine, and sugar mixed together and poured round them. Cut a few blanched almonds into slips lengthwise, and stick in the top of each. HARTSHORN JELLY. BoiU lb. of harts- horn shavings in a gallon of water till reduced one-third, strain it, and let it cool; then melt it again, and put in orange and lemon-peel to colour it; skim, and add thereto half a pint of white wine, the juice of two lemons, and |11). of lump sugar. Beat up the whites of four eggs to a; froth, stir the whole together, and pour it into tlje saucepan; let it boil two or three minutes, and when it is curdled and perfectly white have ready a jelly bag suspended over a china basin, into which pour the jelly, repeat- ing it several times till it is perfectly clear; then set another basin under it, have your glasses clean, and fill them; take some thin rind of lemons, and when you have filled your glasses throw the peel into the basin. After running all the jelly through the bag fill the rest of the glasses, which will, have the appear- ance of amber. Put in the sugar and lemon to your taste. : HARTSHORN, SPIRIT OF. This name was originally applied to the watery liquor obtained when harts' horns were submitted to destructive distillation. It consisted of a solu- tion of carbonate of ammonia, contaminated with empyreumatic oil. A similar liquor is now obtained in the distillation of bones in making animal charcoal, and this liquor is used as one of the sources of the ammonia of commerce. The liquid now sold as spirit of hartshorn is either a weak solution of ammonia, or a solution of carbonate of ammonia, or a mix- ture of the two. Burnt hartshorn is a powder obtained by burning pieces of deer's horn or other bone until quite white. It is really a mixture of chalk and phosphate of lime. Hartshorn shavings are obtained from the turners of bone and ivoi'y. By boiling these shavings in water a nutritive jelly is obtained. It is also used by straw-plait workers to stiffen the plait. HASH, COLD. Mince a nice white piece of veal; wash and core some anchovies; take some pickled oysters, pickled cucumbers, and a lemon ; shred and mix them with the veal, and place it in a dish; lay round it slices of veal, fillets of anchovies, pickled cucumbers sliced, whole pickled oysters, mushrooms, capers, and lettuces shred small; pour in oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and serve. HASHES. Meats dressed in this way should only simmer gently till just warmed through, because they have already been nearly, if noi quite done. In order to warm up made dishes put what may be left in a deep dish or large tureen, and when wanted set it in a stewpan of boiling water, letting it stand till the meat is heated sufficiently. The bain-marie, or water bath, is an excellent vessel to warm up ready- made dishes, as it neither wastes the sauce nor makes the meat tough. When this utensil is not at hand a Dutch oven will supply its place. In making hashes select those parts of the joint that are under-done; and in thus dressing the remnant of a leg of mutton take care to saw the bone in two; then twist paper round the ends, and send it up separately as a side dish with pai'sley. HASHES, STUFFING BALLS FOR. Take f lb. of bread crumbs, ^ lb. of suet, ^ a little lemon-peel, lemon thyme, parsley, | marjoram, and savory (all finely cnopped), a little nutmeg, mace, salt, white pepper, and Cayenne. Mix with two well-beaten eggs, divide into small balls, fry or boil them in clarified dripping or lard till of a nice light brown, and then dry them immediately before the fire. They will keep good two or three days. HASTY CUSTARD PUDDING. Put a quart of new milk on the fire to boil; then mix a tea-cupful of rice flour with a little milk, two eggs, and three spoonsful of sugar; beat it, and when the milk boils stir it in; let it boil five mhiutes, when pour it out on someHAS r 30 ] HAT buttered toast in a bowl or dish, or grate nut- meg over it. HASTY FRITTERS. Warm some butter in a stewpan ; then take half a pint of ale, and stir into it gradually a little flour and a few currants or sliced apples ; beat them up, and drop a large spoonful at a time all over the pan, taking care that they do not stick together, turn them with an egg slice, and when brown lay them on a dish, strew sugar over them, and serve them hot. HASTY INDIAN-MEAL PUDDING Boil three quarts of water in an iron pot, mix a pint of Indian meal in cold water, and make it thin enough to pour easily. When the water boils pour it in, and stir well with a wooden stick for that purpose. It takes about an hour to boil Add salt to your taste, and stir in dry meal to make it thick enough, beating all the time. Eat it with milk and molasses, or butter and sugar This is said to be a wholesome diet for dyspeptic jatients, and makes a good meal for cliildren. HASTY PUDDING. To a quart ot oat- n eal add gradually two quarts of water, so that they may mix smoothly, and boil for a quarter of an hour, constantly stirring it; take it off, and i dd a little salt and butter. To be eaten with ireacle. This pudding may be made with milk instead of water, or half milk and half water. HAT. (See Apparel.) We shall confine our notes to what is called a beaver hat, although tbe fur of the beaver is now rarely employed in its formation. The selection of a hat will greatly depend on the circumstances of the purchaser, and the locality in which the hat is to be worn. For the country, or in situations where rain and bad weather may be expected to be encountered, the best beaver hat will be found the cheapest in the end, because it retains its shape and colour, and wears well to the last; whereas in towns, where umbrellas are available, and shelter always at hand, the inferior article, which can be purchased at about one-third, or even one- fourth the price of the other, may be the most desirable, seeing that you may have three or four for the value of one. Those gossamers 0 died French are by far the best, and little inferior in appearance to the best beaver hats. Take care, however, that the nap is short, and that they are free from smell; for, in some of the best quality, the smell of the glue and varnish used is very offensive, particularly when the hat becomes warm on the head. When a hat is bulged or indented take the same means as the hatter, namely, softening the glue over steam, and using a hot iron, and you may easily restore it to shape : to attempt it without this precaution would very probably cause it to crack. Lightness is au essential quality of a good hat, and when circumstances permit it is wise to make your selection before the article is finished, that is, lined and bound, because in that state you may form a judgment of the quality the foundation is composed of. Seeing that hats made wholly of beaver cannot now be obtained, the composition should approach as near in quality to that as possible; therefore, when the material consists of much wool, and appears coarse, it should be rejected in favour of one having a close and firm texture apparent on the inside under the lining. In fact, experienced persons always insist on raising the lining before they purchase; and there is now so much competition and imposition in trade, and articles are got up so cheaply, and consequently of such inferior materials, that this precaution is quite necessary. Hats require great care, or they will soon look shabby. Brush them with a soft camel-hair brush : this will keep the fur smooth. Have a stick for each hat to keep it m its proper shape, especially if the hat has got wet; put the stick in as soon as the hat is taken off, and when dry put it into a hat box, particularly if not in constant use, as the hght, air, and dust soon turn hats brown. It should first be gently freed from the superabundant moisture by means of a dry soft cloth, and never with a pocket-hand- kerchief, unless taken perfectly fresh from the wardrobe for the occasion. Should tbe hat have received only a partial sprinkling of rain, it must be brought into the same uniform state of wetness by the application of a soft hat brush dipped lightly in cold water, and pressed gently round in the direction of the felt. When thus uniformly affected by the wet take a hard brush, and gradually bring the beaver into a perfect and even state of adjustment, and then lay the hat gently on its side on a clean cloth, ana leave it all night to dry Next morning bring it into its usual state by the use of the ordinary soft hat brush, and it will be found to have suffered little comparative injury. The better the quality of the hat the oftener this process may be repeated without injury. At length, however, the fur will begin to assume a dull grey aspect, but this may be immediately removed, and the lustre restored, by brushing with a hat brush alternately made hot by hold- ing before a fire, and quickly passing it round the hat. HxiT, STRAW. For varnishing see Basket Varnish. HaTEREAUX, VEAL. Cut from the noix. chump, or any convenient piece, as much meat as will fill the dish ; let the pieces be about three inches long, and two broad, or larger; lard them lengthwise, and turn down the larded side Have a cooked farce that will, with a third more,HEA [ 31 ] HAT cover the hatereaux; take as many mushrooms, fat livers, and truffles, or truffle powder, as will be equal to the third wanting for the farce ; cut them into small dice, mix them in it with some yolk of egg and spices, and cover the hatereaux with it; roll, stitch, and paper them; hang them on a bird spit, baste them with butter, and dish them over an Italian rousse or blanche. HATTED KIT, SCOTCH. To make this excellent and healthy dish a small deep tub, with a cover to shut close like a chum, and a fosset below to run off the whey, is necessary, and is generally kept for it. Fill the kit two-thirds full of buttermilk from the churn. When the new milk comes in warm add a sixth or eighth part of buttermilk ; mix it well, and cover it closely. At the next milking put in the same quantity, and mix again. If the weather is hot it may re- quire no more, which will be known by the milk thickening on the top. Let it ripen, and then try it by the spigot, and if the whey is milky it must stand a little longer till it becomes clear. The whey must be well drawn off. Take out what is necessary for a dish, lay it upon a drainer, beat it with a wooden spoon, dish it, and strew sugar over, with a little rich cream. It ought to be used quickly, as it soon grows very acid. It is a very healthy and excellent dish. HAWTHORN LIQUOR. The full blossoms of the whitethorn are to be picked dry and clean from the leaves and stalks, and as much put into a large bottle as it will hold lightly without being pressed down. It is then to be filled up with French brandy, and allowed to stand two or three months, when it must be decanted off, and sweetened with clarified sugar, or with capil- laire. Without the sweetening it is an excellent seasoning for puddings and custards. HAZEL. The uses of this wood are various: it is employed for poles, hoops for barrels, spars, hurdles, handles for implements of husbandry, walking-sticks, fishing-rods, &c. Where beauti- ful specimens are required for veneering or staining, the roots of the hazel-nut tree are preferable to the branches. In Italy the chips are used for fining turbid wines, and in countries where yeast is scarce the twigs of this shrub dried, and afterwards soaked in the fermenting liquor, serve as a substitute for that article in brewing. Painters and engravers prepare coals for drawing outlines from the wood of this plant by the following process:—Pieces of dried hazel about the thickness of a finger, and four or five inches in length, are put into a large pot filled with sand, and the top of which is closely covered with clay. In this manner they are placed in a potter's oven, or otherwise ex- posed to a sufiiciently intense heat, and, on cooling, the sticks are found to be converted into charcoal, which draws freely, and is easily effaced with India rubber. The kernels of the fruit of the hazel- lut tree, though difficult of digestion, have a mild, farinaceous, oily taste, which is agreeable to most palates; yet fXherts are said to be more nourishing than nuts. Both, however, operate as a cathartic when chewed small and taken in considerable quantities, but produce constipa- tion of the bowels if swallowed in large pieces, and dysentery if eaten unripe. A kmd of chocolate has been prepared from this fruit, which has also occasionally been converted into bread. An expressed oil is obtained from the nuts which is little inferior to that of almonds: It is often preferably used by painters, as it readily dries • and chemists employ it as the basis of fragrant oils artificially prepared, because it easily combines with and retains odours. HAZEL-NUT CAKES. Prepare i lb. of nuts, grill them of a fine colour in a pan over the fire, and make them into a paste like almonds in the mortar. Make a paste of 8 ozs. of flour, 8 ozs. of pounded sugar, ai>d the yolks of four or five eggs to give the paste a colour. Finish the same as Potato C.4iKEs. Let them be sufficiently done. They may be pearled with sugar before they are put into the oven. HEAD. For affections of the head see Apoplexy, Brain (Inflammation and Water on), Epilepsy, Headache, and Skull. HEAD, BLOWS ON THE. The danger to be apprehended from violent blows on the head, if unattended by fracture of the skull, is a concussion of the brain. The symptoms are deep-seated pain, general inertness, silent breathing, a low pulse, together with little or no contraction of the pupils of the eyes. There is sometimes fever more or less acute. External injury and sudden violent motion may be considered as morbid agents. The danger, which is extreme, will be either proportioned to the urgency of the inflammatory symptoms or to the general inirritability. The pulse rising, the recollection returning, and the pupils suitably contracting, are tokens of a favourable termination. If inflammatory symptoms predominate re- course must be had to vegetable diet, mild tem- perature, forbearance in regard to motion, lessen- ing of objects acting on the organs of sense, and of such as influence the mind, and also to suitable evacuation. Inertness of the system unattended with inflammation, or concussion as it commonly occurs, will, on the contrary, uniformly require remedies, such as nutritious diet, volatiles, simple cordials, blisters, and warm bathing.HEA [ 32 ] HEA HEADACHE. Aches and pains proceed from very different causes, and may affect any part of the body; but we shall point out those only which occur most frequently, and are attended with the greatest danger. When the headache is slight, and affects a particular part of the head only, it is called cephalalgia; when the whole head is affected, cephalaa; and when one side only, hemicrania. A fixed pain in the forehead, which may be covered with the end of the thumb, is called the clavis hystericus. There are also other distinctions. Some- times the pain is internal, sometimes external; sometimes it is an original disease, and at other times only symptomatic. When the headache proceeds from a hot, bilious habit the pain is very acute and throbbing, with a considerable heat of the part affected. When from a cold, phlegmatic habit the patient complains of a dull, heavy pain, and has a sense of coldness in the part. This kind of headache is sometimes attended with a degree of stupidity or folly. Causes. Whatever obstructs the free circula- tion of the blood through the vessels of the head may occasion a headache. In persons of a full habit, who abound with blood, the headache often proceeds from the suppression of customary evacuations, as bleeding at the nose, sweating of the feet, &c. It may likewise proceed from any cause that determines a great flux of blood towards the hpd, as coldness of the extremities, or hanging down the head for a long time. Whatever prevents the return of the blood from the head will likewise occasion a headache, as looking long obliquely at any object, wearing anything tight about the neck, a new hat, or the like. When a headache proceeds from the stoppage of a running at the nose there is a heavy, obtuse, pressing pain in the fore part of the head, in which there seems to be such a weight that the patient can scarcely hold it up. Sometimes the headache proceeds from the repulsion or retrocession of the gout, the ery- sipelas, the smallpox, measles, itch, or other eruptive diseases. What is called a hemicrania generally proceeds from crudities or indigestion. Inanition, or emptiness, will also occasion head- aches. There is likewise a most violent, fixed, con- stant, and almost intolei-able headache, which occasions great debility both of body and mind, prevents sleep, destroys the appetite, causes a vertigo, dimness of sight, a noise in the ears, convulsions, epileptic fits, and some- times vomiting, costiveness, coldness of the extremities, &c. , The headache is often symptomatic in continual and intermitting fevers, especially quartans. It is likewise a very common symp- tom in hysteric and hypochondriac complaints. When a headache attends an acute fever, with pale urine, it is an unfavourable symptom. In excessive headaches coldness of the ex- tremities is a bad sign. When the disease continues long, and is very violent, it often terminates in blindness, apoplexy, deafness, vertigo, palsy, or epilepsy. In this disease the cool regimen in general is to be observed. The diet ought to consist of such emollient substances as will correct the acrimony of the humours and keep the body open, as apples boiied in milk, spinach, turnips, and such like. The drink ought to be diluting, as barley water, infusions of mild mucilaginous vegetables, decoctions of the sudorific woods, &c. The feet and legs ought to be kept warm, and frequently bathed in lukewarm water ; the head should be shaved and bathed with water and vinegar. The patient ought, as much as possible, to keep in an erect posture, and not to lie with his head too low. When the headache is owing to excess of blood, or a hot, bilious constitution, bleeding is necessary. • The patient may be bled in the jugular vein, and the operation repeated if there be occasion. Cupping, also, or the appli cation of leeches to the temples and behind the ears, will be of service: afterwards a blistering plaster may be applied to the neck, behind the ears, or to any part of the head that is most affected. In some cases it will be proper to blister the whole head. In persons of a gross habit, issues, or perpetual blisters, will be of service. The body ought likewise to be kept open by gentle laxatives. Bat when the headache proceeds from a copious vitiated serum, stagnating in the mem- branes either within or without the scull, with a dull, heavy, continual pain, which will neithe yield to bleeding nor gentle laxatives, then more powerful purgatives are necessary, as pills made of aloes, resin of jalap, or the like. It will also be necessary in this case to blister the whole head, and to keep the back part of the neck open for a considerable time by a perpetual blister. When the headache is occasioned oy the stoppage of a running at the nose the patient should frequently smell to a bottle of volatile salts ; he may likewise take snuff, or anything that will irritate the nose so as to promote a discharge from it, as the herb mastic, ground ivy, <fcc. A hemicrania, especially a periodical one, is generally owing to a foulness of the stomach, for which gentle vomits must be administered, as also purges of rhubarb. After the bowelsHEA [ 83 j HEA have been sufficiently cleared chalybeate waters, and such bitters as strengthen the stomach, will be necessary. A periodical headache has been cured by wearing a piece of flannel over the forehead during the night. When the headache arises from a vitiated state of the humours, as in the scurvy and venereal disease, the patient, after proper evacuations, must drink freely of the decoction of woods, or the decoction of sarsaparilla, with raisins and liquorice. These, if duly persisted in, will produce very happy effects. When a collection of matter is felt under the skin it must be discharged by an incision, otherwise it will render the bone carious. When the headache is so intolerable as to endanger the patient's life, or is attended with continual watching and delirium, recourse must be had to opiates. These, after proper evacua- tions by clysters or mild purgatives, may be applied both externally and internally. The affected part may be rubbed with Bates's anodyne balsam, or a cloth dipped in it may be applied to the part. The patient may, at the same time, take twenty drops of the tincture of opium in a cup of valerian or pennyroyal tea twice or thrice a day. This is only to be done in case of extreme pain. Proper evacua- tions ought always to accompany and follow the use of opiates. When the patient cannot bear the loss of blood his feet ought frequently to be bathed in lukewarm water, and well rubbed with a coarse cloth. Cataplasms with mustard or horse- radish ought likewise to be applied to them. This course is peculiarly necessary when the pain proceeds from a gouty humour affecting the head. When the headache is occasioned by great heat, hard labour, or violent exercise of any kind, it may be allayed by cooling medicines, as the saline draughts with nitre, and the like. A little ether dropped into the palm of the hand and applied to the forehead will sometimes remove a violent headache. HEALTH is a proper disposition of the several constituent parts of the body, by which tliey are enabled to perform their respective functions without any impediment. The continuance of health depends chiefly on what has been professionally called the six non- naturals, namely, air, food, exercise, the passions, evacuation and retention, and sleep and waking. I foderation, however, in the strictest sense of the woi'd, is equally essential to the preservation of health as a pure air and wholesome food. Cleanliness, too, ought by no means to be neglected, for an unclean person very seldom enjoys good health. Hence frequent washing VOL. II. of the skin is of the first importance, and we are fully persuaded that most of the diseases with which the lower classes of people are affected, especially in crowded neighbourhoods, originate from the filthy state which is but too evident in many of their wretched habitations. See Air, Diet, Drainage, Exercise, &c. HEARING. See Deafness and Ears. HEART, BULLOCK'S : To Bake. Make a stuffing of crumbs of bread, chopped suet, or a little butter, parsley, sweet marjoram, lemon- peel grated, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, with the yolk of an egg; stuff the heart, and place it in the oven. When done serve it up as hot as possible, with gravy, melted butter, and currant jelly. A heart is better baked than roasted. HEART, BULLOCK'S: To Roast. Clean it well, and cut off the deaf ears ; then stuff it with forcemeat similar to that for a hare, lay a caul of veal or piece of paper over the top to keep in the stuffing, and either roast it by a hang- ing-jack or in a cradle-spit. A heart of good size will take two hours to roast before a brisk fire. Baste with red port, and when roasted take out the gravy, skim off the fat, and add to it a glass of wine. Put some lumps of currant jelly into the dish, and also separately in a saucer. Serve the heart perfectly hot. HEART, BULLOCK'S (Stuffing for). The proper stuffing for a bullock's heart is the same as that used for hare, and the heart should be hashed in the same manner as hare, taking especial care that it is not allowed to boil, but onlv to simmer. HEART," CALB'S: To Roast. Make a forcemeat of grated bread, Jib. of beef suet chopped small, a little parsley, sweet marjoram, and lemon-peel, mixed with a little white pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg; stuff the heart, ana lay a caul or a sheet of writing paper over it. When roasted serve it with gravy. HEART, PALPITATION OF THE. This disease consists in a strong and irregular motion of the heart, and may be a consequence oi disease, or of some malformation of this organ or the chest; it may also arise from fulness of habit, as well as from general debility of the system. So violent is the action at times that it can not only be felt with the hand, but distinctly seen, and in some instances may even be heard. In the course of the disease, and when it has proceeded to a certain extent, there is fre- quently, with shortness of breath, a purplish tinge of the lips and cheeks, and a variety of painful and anxious sensations. In some instances it has terminated in death, but in many others it is merely a symptom of the hysterics and other nervous complaints.[ 34 ] HED -HEA The treatment of palpitation will depend on a knowledge of the cause which gives rise to it. Should it arise from fulness of habit bleeding may be adopted, with purgatives, &c.; if from weakness, the use of bitters, cold bathing, with other tonics, will be proper; and when symptomatic of some nervous disorder, in con- junction with these may be given musk, castor, ether, and other antispasmodics. In a case of palpitation of the heart which came under our observation Sir Astley Cooper, Bart., had pre- scribed the following with considerable relief to the patient, who was a female, viz. :—Take tincture of foxglove, ^ oz. ; spirit of nitrous ether, 1^ oz. A small tea-spoonful twice a day, occasionally taking the following pill:—Take calomel, 1 grain; gamboge, 1 grain; squills, 2 grains; in consequence of a dropsical affection of the chest. When the disease depends upon any organic affection the patient should be cautioned against using any violent exertions either of body or mind, particularly fits of passion, sudden surprise, &c. HEARTBURN. See Acidity. HEARTBURN LOZENGES. Precipitated chalk, 4 ozs.; gum-ai'abic powder, 1 oz.; powdered nutmeg, 1 drachm ; powdered loaf sugar, 6 ozs. Beat them with water into a mass of the con- sistency of dough, roll out, cut into lozenges, and dry. Three or four to be sucked as needed. HEATHCOCK, or Blackcock : To Dress. Open the skin of a heathcock, take the meat from the breast, and mince it with beef suet, sweet herbs, three artichoke bottoms boiled, some chestnuts roasted and blanched, and marrow and skirrets boiled. These ingredients being minced very finely, season them with pepper and salt, and add the yolks of three eggs. Mix the whole together, and put some of it in the place of the breast; fasten the skin, prick the back, and put it into a stewpan, with broth, marrow, an artichoke cut in pieces, chest- nuts, and some of the forcemeat made into balls. When sufficiently done take it out, and serve it with fried bread and the sauce. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon, yolks of hard eggs, and chestnuts. HECTIC FEVER. A species of slow fever returning daily, with paroxysms at noon and in the evening, generally attended with profuse perspiration at night, and the urine depositing a sediment like brickdust. Causes. Persons of tender constitutions, and those who indulge in violent passions, especially grief, are chiefly liable to the attacks of hectic fevers. Besides, luxurious living, abuse of wine, the drinking of impure water, the excessive use of perfumes, as well as the suppression of natural discharges, and an injudicious treatment of catarrhal, putrid, inflammatory, and inter- mittent fevers, are among the numerous causes of this disorder. Hectics arising in consequence of a favourable suppuration of a wound or ulcer are the least dangerous; but where they are confirmed it is in vain to attempt a radical cui'e, as medicine can only mitigate the symptoms and protract a lingerins; existence. The changes of the seasons are particularly fatal to young hectic patients, who, if attacked in the spring, generally languish till the succeeding autumn ; or, if they become subject to the disease during the summer solstice, they linger out a wretched existence till about the same period arrives in the follow- ing year. Method of treatment. As this fever arise:; from various causes it must necessarily require different remedies. In general, however, the chief object to be attended to is the mitigation of the symptoms by preventing both costiveuess and looseness, by procuring sleep, and checking the night sweats. The use of Peruvian bark has been attended with considerable success, for it tends to stop the progress of gangrenes, and the suppurations become more favourable. Cauteries applied to the head, antiscorbutics, together with gelatinous or mealy substances, and the moderate use of generous wine, may be safely administered. In the beginning of the disease soft-stewed eggs and raw oysters, eaten in small portions, have often proved very beneficial. Much depends upon the diet, air, and exercise. The diet, indeed, ought to con- sist chiefly of milk and vegetables. Half a pint of either goats or asses' milk, which last is less viscid than any other kind, should be drunk three or four umes in the course of a day, and continued for weeks, and even months. Some authors preferably recommend butter- milk, which in their opinion is equal to that of asses, observing that many persons have re- covered by the free use of it; nevertheless it should be sparingly taken at first, and gradually increased till it becomes almost the only sustenance. Persons who have been accustomed to animal food and strong liquors must eftect this change by imperceptible degrees; and by persisting in the course above mentioned they will in most cases recover, unless the fever has made such progress as to reduce the frame to a confii'med consumption. HEDGEHOG: To Make. Blanch 2 lbs. of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar, moistening it occasionally with canary and orange-flower water, and beat the yolks of twelve and the whites of seven eggs with a pint of • ci'eam and some powder sugar. Put this, with the almond paste and ^ lb. of fresh butter, into[ 35 ] HE E HEM a saucepan, set it over a stove, and keep it constantly stirring till sufficiently firm to be moulded into the shape of a hedgehog; stick it full of blanched almonds cut lengthwise into slips, and place it in a dish. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, put them to a pint of cream sweetened to the taste, and stir over a slow fire till hot; then pour it round the hedgehog, and let it stand, when serve it. HEEL BALLS. See Balls, Blacking. HEEL, COW. See Cow-heel. HELLEBORE. The root of black helle- .jore, or Christmas rose {Hellehorns ni(jer), in large doses is a drastic purgative ; in smaller doses it is diuretic and emmenagogue. It has been used as a purgative in cases of mania, melancholy, coma, dropsy, worms, and psora, and as an emmenagogue; but its use requires great caution, for its effects are very uncertain, and affected by many circumstances. It may be exhibited in the form of extract, although its activity is much dissipated by the preparation. An infusion and tincture cer- tainly promise to be medicines of more uniform powers. The leaves of the stinking hellebore, or bear's foot [Helleborus fcetidus), have an acrid, bitter, nauseous taste, and unpleasant smell, especially when they are fresh. When dried they are sometimes given as a domestic medicine to destroy worms; but they must be used sparingly, being so violent in their operation that instances of their fatal effects are recorded. Of white hellebore (Veratriim album), the powder of the dried root, applied to an ulcerated surface, occasions violent purging; snuffed up tlie nose it proves a strong and not always safe sternutatory. Taken internally it acts with extreme violence as an emetic, and has been observed, even in a small dose, to occasion con- vulsions, and even death. The ancients some- times employed it in obstinate cases, but always made it their last resource. E EMLOCK [Coniiim maculalum). The whole plant is a virulent poison, but varying very much in strength according to circumstances. When taken in an over-dose it produces vertigo, dimness of sight, difficulty of speech, nausea, fetid eructations, anxiety, tremors, and paralysis of the limbs. But Dr. Stoerck found that in small doses it may be taken with r;reat safety, and that, without at all disordering the con- stitution, or even producing any sensible opera- tion, it sometimes proves a powerful remedy in many obstinate disorders. In scirrhus the internal and external use of hemlock has been found useful, but mercury has been generally used at tlie same time. In open cancer it often abates the pain, and is free from the consti- pating effects of opium. It is likewise used in scrofulous tumours and ulcers, and in other ill- conditioned ulcers. It is also recommended by some in chincough and various other diseases. Its most common and best form is that of the powdered leaves, in the dose at first of two or three grains in the course of a day, wliich in some cases has been gradually increased to upwards of 2 ozs. daily, but the powder must have been badly prepared. An extract from the seeds is said to produce giddiness sooner than that from the leaves. HEMMING. If the piece of calico or cloth that you are about to hem be a square piece fold it like a half-handkerchief, to see whether the sides are exactly equal in length; and if not, draw a thread out of the calico or cloth, and cut it even by the open line thus made ; then cut the raw edge straight and smooth. A selvage is the edge of the cloth where it is closed in the making. Then, if the piece you are about to hem has a selvage on one or two of its sides, those sides do not require hemming. Turn the raw edge down once, and then turn it down again the same width as at fii'st; place the work upon the first finger of the left hand, and hold the needle in the right hand. Begin by pointing the needle from you, turning in the end of the thread under the hem, and drawing it out till near the end of the thread; then the end must be neatly turned in under the hem with the point of the needle. As you go on hemming point the needle towards your cliest or bosom, not towards the left shoulder. When a new thread becomes necessary cut off the end of the thread you have been using, and turn it under the hem ; then set in the needle pointed from you, and manage the end of the new thread iu the same manner as before. Keep the eye of the needle rather lower than the point, otherwise the needle is very likely to get broken. Four threads left between every two stitches in hemming will place them at a good distance. HEMORRHOIDS, or Piles. This is a disease which requires but little if any explana tion. The piles consist of small tumours situated on the verge of the anus, &c. In some cases blood discharges from these tumours, par- ticularly when the patient strains at stool. The disease is then distinguished by the term bleed ing ^n'/es, and where there is no discharge it is called the blind piles. The piles may be occasioned by habitual cos- tiveness, hard riding, excesses of various kinds, suppression of accustomed discharges, full habit of body, by the use of strong purges containing aloes, and are more liable to arise in those of a robust constitution, and in people of sedentary life. Child-bearing women are frequently sub- ject to piles from various causes, and from theHEN HEM [ 36 ] costive habit to which such women are usually prone. The piles are more troublesome than dangerous, and in many instances are to be regarded as a salutary evacuation. The tumours are sometimes attended with a considerable degree of inflammation, which, proceeding to suppuration, may terminate in fistulae, &c. It is necessary, in treating the piles, to pay strict attention to the causes which gave rise to them; and, as costiveness is one of the most frequent, the bowels should be kept open by the regular use of such medicines as will prove gently laxative without irritating, which may be effected by the following electuary:—Take flowers of sulphur, 1 oz. ; lenitive electuary, 2 ozs.; cream of tartar, 3 drachms; syrup of roses enough to make the whole into an electuary. About the size of a walnut to be taken occasionally. Where there is much inflammation, and con- sequent irritability of the tumours, leeches applied to them will prove serviceable. They may also be scarified with the point of a lancet, applying afterwards pledgets dipped in some cooling astringent lotion, such as a solution of the sugar of lead or sulphate of zinc, observ- ing after each stool to anoint the parts with some kind of emollient ointment, such as the cerate of sugar of lead, 1 oz, with which 2 drachms of pulverised opium have been mixed. Fomentations are also serviceable, and in plethoric habits small doses of nitre, as in the above electuarj'. The patient should en- deavour to obtain motions at stated times, and without straining. Balsam of copaiba, to the extent of 40 or 50 drops, morning and evening,, frequently relieves the pain so often produced by the piles. In those cases where the tumours are not attended with much inflammation, but are nume- rous and very troublesome, pressure upon them is the most effectual remedy; and however much the tumours may protrude, either during stool or at other times, they may almost always be returned by means of gradual and constant pressure upon thera with the fingers, the patient lying on his back; and a bandage properly secured, with a small pad or compress of soft linen dipped in some anodyne lotion, will prevent them from falling down again. If the piles protrude every time on going to stool they must be replaced in the manner here men- tioned, and treated-in the preceding way; and where this proceeds from a lax state of the parts, to the use of the bandage may be added astringents, by means of pledgets dipped in a strong solution of galls or oak bark, anointing the parts from time to time with ointments that have the same effect. Take decoction of oak bark, 1 pint, made by boiling down 2 ozs. of the bark in 2 pints of water to one ; to which add alum, 2 drachms ; tincture of opium, 1 drachm; and mix for an injection. Or, take white vitriol, 1 drachm; rose water, 1 pint; tincture of opium, 1 drachm. Or, bruised oak galls, ^ oz.; hot water, 2 pints ; and make an infusion by pouring boiling water on them. During the continuance of the piles, and when the tumours are in a high state of inflam- mation, the patient's diet should be cool, nu- tritious, and easy of digestion. Water, or toast and water, with cooling acidulated drinks, should be his only beverage. In order to prevent a relapse when the virulence of the piles has abated, and to strengthen the parts, washing them with cold water night and morn- ing is serviceable in bracing up the coats of hemorrhoidal veins, and in hardening the ex- crescences. The piles have sometimes been injudiciously stopped by the use of powerful astringents, which have been the means of bringing on more troublesome and dangerous complaints, so that it has been deemed advisable, on many occasions, to have them reproduced, which has proved salutary, for which bleeding in the feet has been recommended, with small doses of aloes given every night until the object has been obtained. HEMP, the produce of the plant Cannabis sativa, is spun into thread, whence it is made into twine, cordage, cloth, netting, &c. Besides the strong cloth and other articles made from it, hemp is of considerable utility for other pur- poses. The refuse, called hemp-sheaves, affords an excellent fuel; and the seeds yield by ex- pression a pure oil, which is peculiarly adapted for burning in chambers, as it is perfectly limpid, and possesses no smell. When fresh hemp has a strong, narcotic smell: the water in which it has been soaked is said to be in a high degree poisonous, and to produce fatal effects imme- diately after drinking it. The seeds have an unctuous, sweetish taste; and they may be triturated with water or boiled in milk as an emulsion, which is occasionally taken as a do- mestic remedy in coughs, heat of urine, and similar complaints. HEN AND CHICKENS. Half roast a shoulder of mutton, then cut off the blade at the first joint, with both flaps ; score the blade in diamond squares, throw over some pepper and salt, and put it into a Dutch oven. Cut the flaps and meat off the shank in slices, and put the gravy of the mutton into a stewpan, with some good gravy, two spoonsful of walnut catsup, one of browning, a little Cayenne, and one or two shallots. When the meat is tender thicken the gravy with flour and butter, put it into the dish, and lay the blade over all. Garnish with green pickles.HEN [ 37 1 HER HENBANE {Hyoscyamus niyer) is one of the most dangerous of narcotics. It is a native of Britain, and may be met with among rubbish and on dunghills. The whole plant has a rank, offensive odour, and possesses in all its parts the same acrid narcotic properties as stramo- nium and belladonna. Wepfer relates that the whole inmates of a convent were poisoned by- using the root instead of chicory. The root is emetic, and necklaces are sometimes made of it to cure convulsions in children. It is a biennial, and is more energetic in its action the second year than the first. The leaves have a fetid and narcotic odour like that of tobacco; their taste is mucilaginous and slightly acrid. When dried they have little flavour or smell, and when thrown on the fire they burn with a crackling noise as if they contained nitre. Applied to the head in a fresh state they allay nervous headache. Boiled with milk, and applied to the breasts, they dissipate induration of the milk. They are also used in gouty tumours, rheumatism, and to allay pain. The seeds possess all the properties of the plant. Smoked through a pipe like tobacco, they have been found beneficial in toothache. They contain an alkaline principle called hyoscyamin, com- bined with malic acid. It is in the form of transparent, colourless, needle-shaped ciystals, without odour, and with a disagreeable taste. Henbane, in the hands of the professional practitioner, acts as a diaphoretic or diuretic, as an anodyne and soporific. It is generally used to relieve pain, procure sleep, or quiet irregular nervous action ; but as such it is inferior to opium, although it has this advantage in certain cases, that it has no tendency to produce constipation. Neuralgic and spasmodic affections, rheumatism, gout, hysteria, and various pectoral diseases, as catarrh, asthma, and pulmonary consumption, are among those in which it is most frequently prescribed.— {Hogg's Vegetable Kingdom.) HERB PIE Take a handful of spinach, double the quantity of parsley picked, two lettuces, mustard and cress, and the leaf of borage and white beet; wash, scald, and, having pressed and drained out all the water, shred them very small; mix them together, and season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Make a batter with a couple of eggs, a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and some flour; stir it well, and pour it on the herbs in a deep dish. Cover the whole with a crust, and bake. HERB POWDER is an excellent article to keep on hand. It may always be used when fresh herbs cannot be had. Make it in the following manner :-T-Take dried parsley, winter savory,sweet marjorarr;, and lemon thyme, of each 2 ozs.; lemon-peel cut very thinly and dried, and sweet basil, 1 oz. each. Dry thesft ingredients in a warm, but not hot oven, or by the fire, till you can pound them finely in a mortar, and pass the powder through a hair sieve. Put this powder in a clean dry bottle, and keep it closely corked. The fragrance will be retained many months. It is an economical and delicious flavouring. HERB PUDDING. Wash, scald, and shred small spinach, beet, parsley, and leeks, of each a handful; have ready a quart of groats previously soaked i'-^ warm water for half an hour, cut 1 lb. of hog's lard and three onions into dice, and mince three sage leaves ; mix all these ingre- dients, add a little salt, and tie them up closely in a cloth. Whilst boiling the string must be loosened to allow the pudding to swell. HERB SAUCE. Work up a piece of butter in some flour, melt it, and then put to it the following herbs shred smallParsley, scallions, tarragon, borage, garden cress, chervil, &c. ; boil all these together for about a quarter of an hour, add a glass of stock, and serve it very hot. HERB SOUP. Put i lb. of butter in a pan, set it on the fire, and shake it round till melted ; put in six sliced onions, and shake the pan well for two or three minutes; add two heads of celery, two handsful of spinach, or a little chervil, some pot marjoram, two cabbage lettuces cut small, and some parsley; shake the pan over the fire ten minutes, and then put in two quarts of water and some crusts of bread. Boil gently for an hour, and add Cayenne pepper and salt to the taste. HERBS * To Dry. It is very important, to those who are not in the constant habit of at- tending the markets, to know when the various seasons commence for purchasing sweet herbs. All vegetables are in the highest state of perfection, and fullest of juice and flavour, just before they begin to flower. The first and last crops have neither the fine flavour nor the perfume of those which are gathered in the height of the season ; that is, when the greater part of the crop of each species is ripe. Take care they are gathered on a dry day, by which means they will have a better colour when dried. Cleanse the herbs well from dirt and dust, cut off the roots, separate the bunches into smaller ones, and dry them by the heat of a stove, or in a Dutch oven before a common fire, in such quantities at a time that the process may be speedily finished; that is, " kill 'em quick," says a great botanist. By this means their flavour will be best preserved. There can be no doubt of the propriety of drying herbs, &c., hastily by the aid of artificial heat. The only caution requisite is to avoid burning, and of this a sufficient test is afforded by the preserva- tion of the colour. The usual proceeding isHER HER [ 38 ] when they are perfectly dried to put them into bags, aud lay them ivi a dry place ; but the best way to preserve the flavour of aromatic plants is to pick off the leaves as soon as they are dried, and to pound them ; pass them through a hair sieve, and keep them iu well-stoppered bottles. HERBS EN PAPILLOTES. Grate i lb. of bacon, and put it, with six spoonsful of oil and ^ lb. of butter, into a saucepan; add to it four dessert - spoonsful of mushrooms shred small, and give them a few turns over the fire. When done put in two dessertspoonsful of shallots, and give them a turn or two ; do the same with two spoonsful of parsley, and then do the whole together, adding pepper, salt, and spices. When done put the herbs into a pan, to be used when wanted. The herbs must all be 6hred small before they are put into the saucepan. HERBS, POTTAGE OF. Take some sorrel, lettuce, leeks, and chervil; mince them very small, and do them up in a little fresh butter. When well amalgamated and sufficiently done moisten them with a proper quantity of stock or broth, and pour the whole on the bread, prepared as usual, in a soup tureen. HERBS, STEWED. Take some spinach, two handsful of parsley, and one handful of ecallions ; chop the two latter, sprinkle them among the spinach, and put them into a stew- pan, with a little salt and a bit of butter When it begins to heat shake the pan, keeping it closely covered, and let it stand over a stove till done. HERBS, SWEET. The most economical way in town to procure sweet herbs is from the herbalists. In the country it is the gardener's business, while the care of them iu both cases belongs to the cook. They ought to be ground two or three times, and the mill tightened each time. Two or three diff'erent mixtures are to be made, and put carefully up in well-stoppered glass bottles. This prevents the possibility of any one flavour overpowering the others. Oyster, mushroom, truffle, and celery powders ought all to be kept separately, as they are used in greater quantity; at any rate it gives more variety. These bottles ought all to be labelled, and kept in order over the dresser in a place fitted for them. The cook ought to attend to dry every savouiy herb that is left. The outer stalks of celery, which would be acrid when green, upon being dried become as pleasant for soup as the stock. Every sprig of parsley, fennel, or sweet herb that has lieen only an hour iu a soup pot, will, if hung in a screen, answer two or three times, and give a finer flavour than at first. Much expense might be saved by a cook's management and attention to these apparent trifles, which it is impossible for a mistress to enter into. Bay, from containing prussic acid, acts upon the nervous system, on which account it is very dangerous, and ought not to be used in cooking of any kind. Black hriony. Young shoots used in soups, or eaten as asparagus. Burnet. Astringent, cordial, vulnerary, pec- toral, and possessing the flavour of the cucumber. It is very precious to the cook, who ought to have vinegar made of it. Common whitlow. This grass seed is so hot that it might be used for pepper. Coventry bells. Root cooling. Pot herb. Vill. Good in flatulence, alleviating, and digestive. Fennel. Leaves diuretic; root opening, aro- matic, and hot. Root eaten as celeiy. Golden thistle. Root used as eryngo. Hops. The young shoots ai^e eaten in spring as asparagus. Hyssop. Pectoral when used as tea. Soaked in water and applied, discutient in contusions and black eyes. Leeks. Expectorant. A powerful diuretic and dissolver of calculi. Marigold. Renovating, hepatic, diaphoretic, and emmenagogue. It is to be regretted that this herb is getting into disuse. Marjoram,. Heating. Parsley. Diuretic. Cleanses the breath from garlic and other strong taints. Primrose tree. Used as salad. Cleanses foul ulcers. Purslane. Used as a pot herb. Coolincr. Used in scurvy, heat of urine, and bilious disorders. Vermifuge. One of the cold seeds. Star of Bethlehem. Roots eaten raw or in soups; seeds used to make bread. Summer savory. Very acrid. Seldom used. Sweet basil. Much used in France, and that which gave a peculiar flavour to the original Fetter-lane sausages. Tansy. Used in puddings. Vermifuge and uterine. Used in colic and gout. Winter savory. Vermifuge. HERNIA, or Rupture. Children and old people are most liable to this disease. In the former it is generally occasioned by excessive crying, coughing, vomiting, or the like. In the latter it is commonly the eff'ect of blows or violent exertions of the strength, as leaping, carrying great weights, &c. In both a relaxed habit, indolence, and an oily or very moist diet, dispose the body to this disease. A rupture sometimes proves fatal before it is discovered. Whenever sickness, vomiting, and obstinate costiveness give reason to suspect an obstruction of the bowels, all those places wheieC 39 ] HER HER ruptures usually happen ought carefully to be examined. The protrusion of a very small part of the bowel will occasion all these symptoms, and if not returned in due time will prove fatal. On the first appearance of a rupture in an infant it ought to be laid upon its back, with its head very low. While in this posture, if the bowel does not return of itself, it may easily be put up by gentle pressure. After it is returned a piece of sticking-plaster may be applied over the part, and a proper truss or bandage must be constantly worn for a considerable time. The method of making and applying rupture band- ages for children is pretty well known. The child must, as far as possible, be kept from crying, and from all violent exertions, till the rupture is quite cured. In adults, when the bowel has been forced down with great violence, or happens from any cause to be inflamed, there is often great diffi- culty in returning it, and sometimes the thing is quite impracticable without an operation, a description of which is foreign to our purpose. The attempt to return the bowel must be thus conducted :—After the patient has been bled he must be laid upon his back, with his head very low, and his breech raised high with pillows. In this situation flannel cloths wrung out of a decoction of mallows and camomile flowers, or, if these are not at hand, warm water must be applied for a considerable time. A clyster made of this decoction, with a large spoonful of butter and an ounce or two of salt, may be afterwards thrown up. If these should not pi'ove successful recourse must be had to pres- sure. If the tumour be very hard considerable force will be necessary ; but it is not force alone which succeeds here. The operator, at the same time that he makes a pressure with the palma of his hands, must with his fingers artfully conduct the bowel in by the same aperture through which it came out. The manner of doing this can be much more easily con- ceived than described. Should these en- deavours prove ineffectual, clysters of the smoke of tobacco may be tried. These have often been known to succeed where every other method failed. There is reason to believe that, by persisting in the use of these and such other means as the circumstances of the case may suggest, most hernias might be reduced without an operation. Operating for the hernia is a nice and diflScult matter, therefore try every method of returning the gut before having recourse to the knife. When a patient complains of pain in the belly, with obstinate costiveness, examine the groins, and every place where a rupture may happen, in order that it may be immediately reduced. By neglecting this many perish who were not suspected to have had ruptures till after they were dead. An adult, after the bowel has been returned, must wear a proper truss. It is needless to describe this, as it may always be had ready made from the manufacturers. Such bandages are generally uneasy to the wearer for some time, but by custom they become quite easy. No person who has had a rupture after he arrived at man's estate should ever be without one of these bandages. Persons who have a rupture ought carefully to avoid all violent exercise, carrying great weights, leaping, running, and the like. They should likewise avoid windy aliment and strong liquors, and should cai'efully guard against catching cold. HERON: To Roast. When the heron is picked parboil it, and lard the breast and back; roast it, basting with white wine and butter beaten together, and strew over it bread crumbs mixed with sweet herbs shred small. Beat up some yolks of eggs with a little claret and vinegar, and some chopped anchovies. When roasted serve it, garnished with rosemary leaves, and orange and lemon sliced. HERON PIE. Break the breast bone, and lay the bird in soak for an hour in warm water and salt. Shred some onions and sweet herbs very finely, and make them into balls with a little butter; add pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace in powder. Put some of these into the heron, lard the breast, and lay bacon on the wings ; make a raised crust, in which place the bird, with the remainder of the balls round it: squeeze in some lemon juice, cover the pie, and bake it. When done raise the top, pour in a little gravy, and let it stand till cold. HERRING FILLETS. Cut out the fillets of fresh or salt herrings, and if too salt lay thein in milk and water for some hours, and wipe them. Have a strong paper case or two ready, strew in nicely minced onions and a very little garlic, seasoned with pepper and a bit of butter; lay in the fillets, strew onions over them, and put in bits of butter; set them over the fire, cook them slowly, and serve them hot in the cases. HERRING PIE. Scale and clean the herrings; cut off the heads, fins, and tails ; lay a crust at the bottom of a dish, strew over it mace, pepper, and salt (all pounded); put in a little butter, lay in some of the herrings, season them, then put a layer of apples and onions sliced thinly, and then herrings again ; add some water and a little more butter, cover the pie, and bake it well. HERRING ROES EN CAISSES. Scald and drain the roes of twenty or thirty fresh herrings, and give them a few turns over the fire with a little butter, sweet herbs, mush- rooms, salt, and pepper, but do not let themC 40 ] HER HER take colour. Make a paper case, over the bottom of which lay some farce to the depth of half an inch, oil the case, and set it on a gridiron over hot ashes. As soon as the gratin is formed put in the roes, and strew raspings over them. Do them in a Dutch oven before a moderate fire (a few minutes are sufficient), takeoi? the fat, and serve the roes with Espagnole and lemon juice. HERRINGS. There are three sorts of her- rings—fresh, salted, and dried or red herrings. They are emptied and cleaned like any other fish. When fresh they are broiled, and served with melted butter, white sauce, &c. The salted herring should be soaked in cold water before it is cooked. This is also broiled, but sometimes it is cut in pieces and eaten raw. The red herring is split down the back, the bead and tail cut off, and the fish broiled like the others. The best red herrings are full of roe, are firm and large, and have a yellow cast. Of the fresh herrings the scales are bright il good, the eyes are full, and the gills red ; the fish also should be stiff. HERRINGS : To Pickle. Let the fish be well cleaned and gutted, but not opened. Take salt, pepper, mace, and nutmeg; pound and mix these spices well, then rub a pan with an onion, strew some of the spice over the bottom, and put in as many fish as will lie flat on the bottom ; then put a layer of sliced onion, then fish, and so on alternately till the pan is filled. Strew the pounded spice between each layer ; pour the best vinegar over so as to cover the whole; tie a brown paper over the pan, and bake till the bones are soft. The beads and tails must be cut off. HERRINGS: To Smoke. Having cleaned the fish, lay them for a night in a mixture oi common salt and a little saltpetre. The next day pass a stick through the eyes, and hang row of herrings over an old cask, in which place some sawdust in the midst ot a heater red-hot. Let them remain suspended in the smoke twenty- four nours. HERRINGS, BAKED. Scald, wash, and dry them well in a cloth, and lay them on a board. Mix some black pepper and a few cloves (pounded) with plenty of salt, and rub the fish all over; lay them straight in a pot, cover theqi with vinegar, put in a few bay leaves, tie strong paper over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. They may be eaten either hot or cold, and if vinegar is used they will keep good two or three months. HERRINGS, BOILED. Scale and other- wise prepare the herrings in the usual way, dry them well, and rub them over with a little salt and vinegar; skewer their tails in their mouths, Jay them on a fish plate, and put them into boiling water. In ten or twelve minutes take them out, drain them, and lay them on the dish, the heads towards the middle. Serve them with melted butter and parsley, and garnish with horseradish. HERRINGS, BROILED. Clean them and cut off their heads ; dry them in a cloth, dust them with flour, and lay them on the gridiron ; wash the heads, and boil them in small beer, with whole pepper and onions. When done strain off the liquor, and thicken it with butter, flour, and mustard ; lay the herrings in a dish, pour the sauce into a boat, and serve them up. HERRINGS, CAVEACH OF. Cut each into four or five junks. From 10 lbs. to 12 lbs. of herrings will require twelve cloves, two nutmegs, eight long peppei's, fifty corns, allspice, a little mace, ginger, and f oz. of pepper. All these are to be pounded, and mixed with 1 oz. of finely pounded salt to every pound of fish. Rub and stuff it into the fish with the fingers ; fry a fine colour in oil or clarified butter, and when cold pack them into a nice jar, strewing allspice among them, with cold boiled vinegar, and pour oil over it. If well covered and properly se- cured from the air they will keep a long time. Serve with hot boiled rice. HERRINGS, COLLARED. Take off the fillets with their skin,and rub them with the spices as for Caveach. If for present use, half the quantity of salts (what is meant by present use is, say a month); add sweet herbs and a little cochineal ; strew some allspice over them, roll them up, and bind them ; put them in as much braise made of fish or meat as will cover them, and simmer very slowly till done ; let them cool, and put into the braise an equal quantity of strong vinegar, with allspice in grains; let it boil up once, and when perfectly cold pack and cover as above. The pots ought to be small, as the fish spoils soon after being opened. HERRINGS, FRIED. Scale the fish, wash and dry them well, dredge them with flour, and fry them in butter over a brisk but. clear fire. When done set their tails one against the other in the middle of the dish. Fry crisply a handful of parsley, take it out before the colour changes, lay it round the herrings, and serve them up with melted butter, parsley, and mustard. HERRINGS, POTTED. Cut off the heads, and lay the herrings closely in an earthenware pan; strew a little salt between the layers ; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, and a nut- meg cut in pieces ; fill up the pan with vinegar, water, and a little white wine; cover the pan closely, and bake tWe fish. When cold pound it, and put it by in pots in the usual way. HERRINGS, RED. Take half a dozen red herrings, cut off the heads and tails, splitHIC [ ^1 ] HER them along tlie back, and open them ; lay them on a dish, and pour oil over thera; broil them on both sides (two or three seconds are sufi&cient), take them off, and serve them instantly. HERRINGS, RED (a la Beuxelloise). Make a case with thick paper, butter it well, and lay in it eight or ten herrings prepared as follows:—Cut off the heads and tails, take away the bones and skins, and cut them lengthwise into two fillets; put between the fillets a piece of butter mixed with sweet herbs, some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, shallots, garlic, pepper, and olive oil; sprinkle them pretty thiclily with raspings, broil them gently over a slow fire so as not to burn the paper, in which they must be served whilst very hot, with lemon ■juice squeezed over them. HERRINGS, RED (with Herbs). Take the best red herrings, skin them, and remove the heads and tails ; cut them into fillets length- wise, and soak them in milk for four hours ; then drain and put them into a saucepan, with some butter, a little oil, parsley, and sweet herbs shred small, salt, and pepper; let them simmer for an hour and a half, take oS the fat, and serve them hot. If the sauce be too thick add a little orange juice. HERRINGS, RED (A l'Italienne). Soak the herrings to take out the salt, open and clean them well, flour them inside and outside, fry them in butter and oil, and serve them laid on fried parsley. HERRINGS, SOFT ROES OF (en Caisses). Make a paper case to fit the dish you intend to use, spread butter over the bottom of it, and broil eight soft-roed herrings. When done take out the roes very carefully, and lay them in the case; sprinkle pepper, salt, grated bread, and shred parsley over thera ; butter and bake them in a hot oven. When done pour a maitre d'hotel and the juice of a lemon into the case. Serve them very hot. HERRINGS, STEWED. Clean and put the herrings into a fish kettle with a sufficient quantity of stock to cover them; add two or three cloves, a carrot, peppercorns, an onion, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, parsley, and half a bottle of port wine. Stew the fish in this till done; then take them out, keep them hot, strain, and reduce the liquor with a little sauce iournee; then pass it through a tammy into another stewpau, stir in a little butter and lemon juice, dish your herrings, and pour this sauce over them. HESKETH'S PILLS. See Ceespigny's (Lady) Pills. HESSIAN SOUP AND RAGOtlT. Clean well with salt and water the roof of a neat's tongue and half an ox's head, after which set them to soak for some time; then stew the whole together in five or six quarts of water till tliey are tolerably tender; set the soup aside to cool, and take off all the fat, which will prove serviceable in making meat pies or for basting ; add to the soup a pint of split peas or a quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, six turnips, as many potatoes and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celery. Simmer the vegetables without the meat till they are done, so as to pass with the peas in a state of amalgamation through a sieve, in which case the soup itself will be of the consistence of cream ; season it well with pepper, salt, mace, allspice, a clove or two, and some Cayenne, all finely pulverised. Should the peas be hard the soup will require thickening, in which case boil therein a slice of roll, and pass it through a cullender; or you may add a little rice flour, mixing it gradually. For the ragoiit cut the best part of the head, the kernels, and some pieces of fat of the root of the tongue, into small but thick pieces ; rub them with some of the seasoning just mentioned, and then put them into a quart of soup that has been set apart for the purpose before the vegetables were added; flour the whole well, and simmer till it is perfectly tender; then put in some mushroom and walnut catsup, a little soy, a glass of port wine, and a tea-spoon- ful of made mustard, and boil the whole together before you serve it up at table. Small eggs and forcemeat balls may be added for company. HICCOUGH, or Hiccup. This is a spas- modic affection proceeding from various causes, such as acidity in the stomach, which is mostly the cause of the complaint in infants, for which a little magnesia or prepai^ed chalk is the most proper medicine, with the addition of a drop of oil of aniseed. In these cases it is a primary affection, that is, not having its origin from any other complaint: it is not attended with danger. A common hiccup may often be removed by taking a few small draughts of cold water in quick succession, or by the sudden excitement of some degree of fear or surprise. When such simple means as these do not succeed, ether, musk, and opium will prove most useful, either combined or given separately. In the accidental hiccup of youth or very old people a small quantity of any powerful acid may be given, such as a tea-spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice, or a little peppermint water, acidulated with a few drops of diluted sul- phuric acid. When the hiccups are violent as well as obstinate a large plaster of Venice treacle applied to the stomach sometimes affords relief, and, should this fail, a blister may supply its place. In hiccups arising at the close of any acute or malignant disease, or in consequence of a[ 42 ] HIE HOG mortification, uo benefit can be obtained from medicine, and they may be looked upon as the precursors of a speedy dissolution. HIERA PICRA is made by mixing together 4 ozs. of aloes and 1 oz. of white canella, both pounded very finely. It is purgative talien in doses of from 10 to 20 grains. HILL'S BALSAM OF HONEY. Dis- solve balsam of tolu, 1 oz.; storax, 1 drachm ; opium, ^ drachm ; and honey, 4 ozs., in 16 fluid ozs. of spirit of wine. Dose, a small tea- spoonful to relieve the lungs in coughs and colds. HILL'S ESSENCE OF BARDANA. Dis- solve 1 oz, of gum guaiacum in 3 fluid ozs. of spirit of wine. HIPPOCRAS. Take 1 oz. of cinnamon, 2 drachms of ginger, 2 dwts. of cloves, nutmeg and galangal 1 dwt. of each. Pound these together well, infuse them in a pint of red or white wine and a pint of malmsey, and to this add 1 lb. of the best loaf sugar. These proportions will make a quart of the liquor. HIPPOCRAS, RED. Pour a gallon of claret into an earthen pan, put to it a blade of mace, some long pepper, 4 grains of white pepper, 1 drachm of cinnamon, and a little cori- ander seed, all bruised separately ; add 2 lbs. of powder sugar and a dozen sweet almonds pounded. HIPPOCRAS, WHITE. Take a gallon of white wine, 2 ozs. of cinnamon, 2 lbs. of sugar, a little mace (all in powder), a few peppercorns, and a couple of lemons cut in quarters. When these have infused some time strain the liquor three or four times throagh a jelly bag. It may be flavoured with musk or ambergris by tying a small quantity of either drug, beaten with a little sugar, in a piece of cloth, and putting it in the bag through which it is strained. HOARSENESS is generally the result of a cold or cough. [See Catarrh and Cccgh.) In addition these remedies may be tried :— One tea-spoonful of a mi.xture of equal parts of paregoric eli.xir and sweet spirit of nitre, taken at bedtime, will be found an admirable remedy for a long-standing cough or hoarseness. Or, I oz. of Spanish juice broken into small pieces, and boiled until dissolved in a pint and a half of water, along with 1 drachm of salt of tartar and ^ drachm of saffron. Half 9, tea-cupful to be taken whenever the cough is troublesome. Hoarseness sometimes arises from a relaxation of the throat, in which case a tonic gargle {see Gargle), or Cayenne lozenges may be used as a remedy. HOCK WINES. Hock wines are produced on the banks of the Rhine and the Moselle. They are generally used for dinner, being drier and more aromatic than the French white wines ; and the best of them have a peculiar flavour much relished by good judges, and called by the natives gdre. By some they are considered acid, but this is only the case with the inferior sorts, or when there has been a bad vintage, for the produce of warm seasons is quite free from defect, and always commands the highest prices. HOFFMAN'S ANODYNE LIQUOR. Mix together 1 oz. of sulphuric ether, .2 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine, and f drachm of ethereal oil. HOG'S BLOOD. Cut an onion into dice, fry it in either butter or lard, and when done pour in the blood ; stir it well, add boiled rice or barley, and season it very highly with pepper and salt. HOG'S CHEEKS: To Dry. Having cut off the snout and taken out the brains, split the head, and remove the upper bone; rub the cheeks well with salt, and let them stand ; the next day rub away that, and add fresh salt. The following day cover the head with ^ oz. of saltpetre, 2 ozs. of common salt, and ^ lb. of coarse sugar. Turn it frequently. When it has lain thus ten days take it out, and smoke it like bacon. HOGS' EARS, FARCED. Parboil two or three pairs of hogs' ears; then take an anchovy, some sage, parsley, ^ lb. of suet (all chopped small), bread crumbs, and pepper; bind these together with the yolk of an egg, stuff the ears with it, fry them in batter to a nice colour, pour away all the fat, and put them into a stewpan, with half a pint of rich gravy, a glass of Madeira, three spoonsful of mustard, apiece of butter rolled in flour, an onion, and a little pepper ; cover the pan closely, and stew- gently for half an hour, shaking it occasionally. When done take out the onion, lay the ears in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. HOG'S HEAD. Put ahead into some tongue pickle, and when it has remained sufficiently long take it out, and boil it till the bones w-ill come out with ease ; then skin, bone, and chop the meat whilst hot; season it with pepper (black and white), nutmeg, and salt if necessary; lay part of the skin at the bottom of a potting- pan, press in the meat, cover it with the re- mainder of the skin, put on a weight, and let it stand till quite cold; then turn it out, boil the liquor it was dressed in with some vinegar, skim it well, aTid when cold put the head into it. HOG'S HEAD LIKE BRAWN. Wash a head thorouf,hly, boil it till all the bones will come out, and then let it cool. Put the inside of the cheeks together, with salt between, and the ears round ; lay them in a cloth, and press them into a round pan; put a weight on, and[ 43 ] HOG HON let them remam two days ; then boil a pint of malt with salt and water, and when cold put the head into this pickle. HOG'S HEAD AS WILD BOAR. Cut the head close to the shoulder, bone the neck part, and cut off the chops, with part of the flesh of the nose, as far as the eyes. Take the bone off, and lard the inside with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, and spices; rub it all over with common salt and ^ oz. of saltpetre ; put into a pan, with half a handful ©f juniper berries, thyme, bay leaf, basil, cloves, and half a handful of coriander; cover the pan, and leave it for a week; then take out the head, tie it up, dry it, and p\it it into a saucepan with three pints of red wine and water, onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of garlic, half a nutmeg grated, thyme, bay leaf, six cloves, and 2 lbs. of lard. Taste the braise before it is quite done, and add salt if necessary. It is sufficiently cooked when it gives way to the touch. Let it cool in the braise, and serve it cold, garnished with bay leaves accord- ing to fancy. HOG'S "lard : To Peepare. Melt it well in a jar, put it into a kettle of boiling water, and then run it into bladders that have been well cleaned and soaked. The smaller these are the better the lard will keep. Put in a sprig of rosemary while melting. HOG'S PUDDINGS. After washing ilb. of rice in warm water boil it in milk till tender, and put it into a sieve to drain. In the mean- time beat up I lb. of sweet almonds very finely with rose water, wash and dry 1 lb. of currants, cut 1 lb. of hog's lard small, and beat up six eggs, 4 lb. of sugar, a nutmeg grated, a stick of cinna- mon, some mace, and salt. Fill the skins with this mixture, and boil them. HOGSHEAD, a measure of capacity for liquids which, not being named in the Act 5 George IV., has no legal existence The hogs- head of wine, or wine measure, contained 63 gallons, each of which contained 231 cubic inches; the hogshead of beer 54 gallons of 282 cubic inches in each. In Scotland a hogs- head contained 16 gallons. Hogshead is a term applied also to very large casks of various dry goods. A hogshead of sugar contains an uncertain quantity, usually between lOcwt. and 15 cwt. of that article. HOLLANDS. See Gin. HOLLANDS : To Make English. Take a lump or two of sugar, two spoonsful each of tlie oils of juniper, turpentine, and almonds, and twenty drofts of the oil of vitriol; rub them in a marble mortar with about half a gill of spirits Df wine of sufficient strength to turn dry in a silver spoon ; introduce this a little at a time till the spirit kills the oils, and then dissolve i lb. of loaf sugar in two quarts of clear boiled or distilled water. In the next place mix with two gallons of rectified malt spirits, or rather whiskey, the coqibined oils and spirits of wine, to which add the dissolved sugar or water. After stirring the whole well put in a tea-spoonful of warm alum finings, shake the vessel, and let it stand to settle, after which draw off the liquor for use. Cordial gins of different flavours may be made in a similar manner, only omitting the whiskey. HOMINY. Hominy is made of the grain of Indian corn broken by the steel mills. It is soaked overnight in warm water, changed in the morning to clean cold water, and boiled gently an hour and a half. Warm it when cold, and eat it with milk or molasses, or salt or bacon, or alone. HOMINY, BOILED. Tie lib. of crushed hominy in a cloth, allowing plenty of room to swell, and boil three hours. This pudding may be eaten with sugar and melted butter, or treacle sauce. One pound of hominy will make a pudding sufficient as a meal for five or six persons, at a cost of not more than 2d. when Indian corn is selling from 563. to 60s. per quarter. HOMINY FRITTERS. Beat up three eggs with a large spoonful of butter, and then add three spoonsful of cold hominy, a pint of milk, and a pint of wheat flour. Mix all well together, and let them rise three hours. HOMINY MILK. Soak Jib. of crushed hominy in water twelve hours, and then boil it in milk over a slow fire two hours. It must be about the consistence of rice milk when brought to table. HOMINY PUDDING, RICE. Mix the hominy, which has been previously boiled either in milk or water, with eggs, a little sugar, nut- meg, and suet, and with or without currants and raisins as preferred ; tie it up in a basin, and boil two hours. It is excellent either boiled or baked. HONEY : To Clarify. Take 6 lbs. of honey, 1^ lb. of water, 2|^ozs. of pounded chalk, and 5 ozs. of coal pulverised, washed, and well dried ; add the whites of three eggs beaten in 3 ozs. of water for each pound of honey. Put the honey, water, chalk, and eggs into a copper vessel capable of holding about one-third more than the above quantities, let them boil for two minutes, throw in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and continue the boiling two minutes longer ; then take the saucepan from the fire, and let it stand nearly a quarter of an hour, that the liquor may cool; then take a new sieve, which must be well washed, or it will impart a dis- agreeable taste, pass the honey through it, taking care to filter the first drops twice, as they generally carry with them some portion of the coal.HON [ 44 ] HOO The sjTup which still adheres to the coal and Jther materials may be separated as follows :— Pour boiling water on them until they no longer retain any sweetness, then put these different waters together, and set them over a large fire to evaporate till the syrup only remains. This syrup contracts the flavour of barley sugar, and must not be added to the clarified honey. HONEY OF BORAX. See Bobax. HONEY CAKE. Mix a quart of strained honey with ^ lb. of powdered white sugar, \ lb. of fresh butter, and the juice of two oranges or lemons. Warm these ingredients slightly, just enough to soften the butter, and then stir the mixture very hard, adding a grated nutmeg. Mix in gradually 2 lbs. or less of sifted flour, make it into a dough just stiff enough to roll out easily, and beat it well all over with a rolling pin ; then roll it out into a large sheet half an inch thick, cut it into round cakes with the top of a tumbler dipped frequently in flour, lay them in shallow tin pans slightly buttered, and bake them well. HONEY OF ROSES. Infuse 4 ozs. of the dried buds of red roses for six hours in a little distilled boiling water, mix 5 lbs. of clarified honey into the strained liquor, and boil it to a syrup. Violets, gilliflowers, &c., are done iu the same way. HONEY WATER. Put two drachms of tincture of ambergris, and as much tincture of musk, in a quart of rectified spirits of wine and half a pint of water; filter it, and put it into small bottles. HONEYCOMB CREAM. Put the grated peei of two lemons into a china dish, and squeeze in the juice of three; add | lb. of sifted sugar and a pint of white wine, and mix well together in the dish it is to be served in. Make a pint of cream scalding hot, but not boiling, put it into a jug with a spout, and pour it from the greatest possible height. Let it be done the day before it is required. HONEYCOMB, LEMON. Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it into a dish ; mix the white of an egg that has been beaten with a pint of rich cream and a little sugar, whisk it, and as the froth rises lay it on the juice. It must be prepared the day before it is used. HONEYED MULBERRY. Strain a pint of mulberry or any other juice, and add to it 1^ lb. of clarified honey; reduce it to two-thirds, skim- ming it carefully; pot and cover it as other preserves. HOOPER'S FEMALE PILLS. Barbadoes aroes, 4 ozs.; dried sulphate of iron, 1 oz. ; ex- tract of black hellebore, 1 oz. ; canella powder, \ oz.; ginger powdered, ^ oz.; water sufl&cient to form a mass fit for making into pills. Divide into 2^.-grain pills. HOOPING COUGH, or Chincough. The danger of hooping cough is always greater the younger the patient happens to be. An infant, therefore, of a few weeks or months old, has but little chance of escape, because it has not strength to stand through the fits, nor sense to make efforts to get rid of the suffocating phlegm, and convulsions, apoplexy, ruptures, and inflammation of the brain often succeed. On the same principle it is also more dangerous in weakly children than in the robust. When there is much feverish heat and difficulty of breathing, with little discharge of phlegm after the fit, and when the fit exhausts the patient much, and leaves him breathless or fatigued, it is a bad sign, and danger may be apprehended. When death is approaching the feet are observed to swell. In stout children above two or three years of age there is seldom much danger if the appetite continues good. Voracious appetite, indeed, is one of the symptoms of the disease, and ought to be but sparingly indulged. When the hands and feet are not chilly, the skin comfortably warm and moist, the bowels open, the urine copious, easy and abundant expectoration, and free vomiting, or moderate bleeding from the nose, at the end of the fit, the patient may be said to be in a favourable state. These signs of safety, we may remark, afford good hints for the proper treatment of the disease. Much discharge of blood or sulphur-coloured phlegm is unfavourable, and will require active measures to prevent danger. Roche's embrocation is the most extensively used of all the hooping-cough nostrums, and it nas one advantage—it is a safe preparation. As it is very expensive we shall put it in the power of such of our readers as choose to employ it to make it at an easy price. But we must tell you that, though safe, it has but small efficacy, and can do little good beyond making the skin somewhat red. and that can be done much more easily with a little scraped horse- radish or table mustard spread on the chest, and left on for fifteen or twenty minutes. We do not say it is of no use to make the skin red; it is certainly beneficial, by drawing the inward inflammation to the skin ; but if you depend on the embrocation the effect of this will be trifling indeed. The expense, on the contrai"y, leads you to expect it to prove quite miraculous, though, like the parents who are at great expense in procuring masters to cram and pamper their children with all sorts of learning, you will find that your money has been worse than thrown away. Roche's embrocation for hooping cough. Take oil of amber, 1 oz.; olive oil, 2 ozs. Mix. and scent it strongly with oil of cloves. Keep it iur 45 ] HOO HOP a phial for use. It may be rubbed on tbe chest in any quantity twice or thrice a day. As one of the most dangerous attendants of hooping cough is an inflammatory affection of the chest, and as the whole disorder appears to depend on an increased flow of blood to the mem- brane which lines the windpipe, one of the most powerful remedies is the loss of blood by leeches or by the lancet. When the child has permanent diflaculty of breathing between the fits, unless blood be taken it will in most cases fall a victim to inflammation of the lungs in two, three, or four days. During this permanent difficulty of breathing the cough abates, or quite ceases, often deluding the fond parent with fallacious hope; but if the cough returns after once or twice bleeding it is a good symp- tom, as the child, now possessing power to cough, shows that the difficulty of breathing is abated. We insist the more strongly on this, that many lives are lost from the difficulty of bleeding young children, particularly when the apothecary is ignorant or clumsy, or has a bad lancet. In these critical circumstances the application of six or eight leeches to one of the legs, allowing the wounds to bleed for an hour or two, ought never to be omitted, as one or two repetitions, according to the emergency, will often save the little sufferer. After the first week or two, in order to diminish the tough phlegm which collects in the throat and obstructs the breathing, we should recommend rhubarb, 12 grains; opium, 1 grain; submuriate of mercury, 1 grain. Mix well, divide into six pills, and take one twice a day. This is the ' dose for a child about three years old. If it i cannot take the pill break it down among jelly. It is by no means safe to blister young : children, as, in bad cases where the constitution is exhausted, the blister often inflames, mortifies, 1: and proves fatal. The warm bath, however, f ought to be frequently used as a substitute; and I it is useful to inhale twice a day, or oftener, 1 the steam of warm water, or warm water and vinegar. Another substitute is distilled water, 2 ozs.; tartarised antimony, 20 grains; tincture of cantharides, 1 oz. Mix, and rub frequently on the region of the stomach. Young children should lie with their heads and shoulders raised, and should be constantly watched night and day, that when the fit of coughing comes on they may be easily held up so as to stand on their feet, bending a little forwards, or nicely supported in the posture in which they appear to feel most ease. A bow of whalebone, about the size of the bow of a key, is very useful to extract phlegm out of the mouths of infants at the time of coughing. A handkerchief, which is generally used, if applied at the time of their quick inspirations, after long holding in their breath, is oangerous, and may suffocate the little patient in an instant, as has sometimes happened. When ulcers of the lungs seem to have supervened, with hectic fever, and threaten consumption, change of air for a week or a fortnight often acts like a charm, and restores the patient, frequently to the surprise of the physician. There is not, however, a greater popular delusion than with regard to the effects of change of air. In all stages of the hooping cough, as well as other disorders attended with cough, change of air ought always to be tried if possible; but the patient must continue for a considerable time in the new air before any benefit can be expected. The common people, who are always under the influence of mystery and superstition, think that by taking a child with hooping cough for a few minutes into a cavern, a mine, or a coal pit, a great charm will be wrought ; but nothing can be more preposterous. If the child were kept in any of those places for a week or ten days it might, indeed, be benefited, for it is remarkable that it is not so much a change into better air, as a change, whether for better or worse, which is required. The greater the difference is in the air the better, as from the interior to the seacoast. Dr. Hamilton says it may be known when the air disagrees by observing that the child is gradually more and more restless during the night, and on this account in many cases it is found necessary to change the residence weekly. He is also a strong advo- cate for vomits, and in many cases we should agree with him in this. The younger the child is the more are vomits required, so that it is often necessary to give one evening and morning for weeks together. After the violence of the disorder has abated strengthening diet, with exercise in the open air in dry weather, is requisite to confirm the health. HOP PILLOW. See Anodyne. HOP SOUP. Take a large quantity of hop tops about April or the beginning of May, when they are in the greatest perfection ; tie twenty or thirty of them in a bunch, lay them in spring water an hour or two, drain them well, and put them into some thin pea soup; boil them well, add three spoonsful of juice of onions, some pepper and salt, and let them boil some time longer. When done soak some crusts of bread in the broth, lay them in the tureen, and pour in the soup. This is plain, but very good soup. HOPS. [See Brewing.) Hops have been said to be tonic, narcotic, and diuretic. They have been recommended in the cure ol rheu- matism, and, like many articles in the materia inedica which have received the sanction of respectable practitioners, they have been ex-HOP [ 46 ] fl 0 R tolled far beyond their merit. They undoubtedly possess the advantages of a pleasant bitter, com- bined with a feeble narcotic. Their use as a preservative of beer is well known, and it is equally notorious that various vegetable sub- stances are daily substituted for them, such as quassia and wormwood, both of which are inferior to the MemjanUies trifoliata, or marsh trefoil. The people of Jersey are said to use the wood sage (Teucrium scorodonia); it imparts, however, a very high colour to the beer. The early shoots of hops are sometimes used in the spring as substitutes for asparagus. They are dressed in the same manner, and served with a white sauce or with oil. HOPS, EXTRACT OF. Extract of hops is made by boiling. In this way half the ordinary quantity will be sufficient. HOREHOUND {Marruoium vxilgare). This herb is a popular remedy in chronic pulmonary complaints, especially catarrh, and in uterine and liver affections. Horehound tea is prepared by infusing 1 oz. of the herb in boiling water for an hour ; syrup of horehound by thickening the infusion or tea with sugar ; candied horehound by mixing one pint of liorehound juice with 4 lbs. of white sugar and 6 lbs. of moist sugar, or 10 lbs. of white sugar alone, boiling to a candy height, and pouring it whilst warm into moulds or small paj)er cases well dusted with linely powdered lump sugar; or it is poured out on a dusted slab, and cut into HOREHOUND: To Candy. Boil it in water till the juice is extracted ; then boil some sugar to feather, add thereto the juice of the horehound, and boil it again to the same height. Stir it with a spoon against the sides of the pan till thick, then pour it into a paper case pre- viously dusted with fine sugar, and cut into squares ; or the horehound may be dried, and put into sugar finely powdered and sifted. HOREHOUND, FORD'S BALSAM OF See Balsam of Horehound. HOREHOUND SYRUP. Put a pint of horehound in a quart of water, and let it draw by the fire ; ])ut a tea-cupful of dried elecampane root in a pint of water, cover it closely, and let it boil till all the strength is out; strain it and the horehound together, and put them to boil with 1 lb. of sugar. When it is a rich syrup pour it in a pitcher to cool, and bottle it. Take a table-spoonful at a time when the cough is troublesome. HORNBEAM (Carphms betulus). The horn- beam is a very valuable tree, and grows to a large size. Its leaves afford a grateful food to cattle, but no grasses will flourish under its shade. Its wood is very tough, white, and burns like a candle ; it is much employed by turners ; is veiy useful for various implements of hus- bandry ; and is wrought into cogs for the wheels of mills, presses, &c., which are far superior to those made of yew. The inner bai'k imparts a permanent yellow colour to yai'n. HORNET. See Bee. HORSE-CHESTNUT {JEsculus hippocas- tanum). It is said that in Turkey these nuts are ground and mixed with the provender of their horses, especially of those which are troubled with coughs or are broken-winded. The nuts are well adapted for feeding deer and swine, upon which the latter are found to fatten freely ; but, before they can be rendered ser- viceable for this purpose, they must be steeped for two or three days in water to extract their bitterness. In Switzerland they are crushed as food for sheep, and given in meals of two pounds to each sheep morning and evening. They are said not only to fatten the animals, but to communicate a peculiarly fine flavour to the mutton. The nuts abound in starch, which may be readily obtained in a state of purity, and it is said to excel, as an article of diet, that pro- cured from the potato ; and the bitter principle which they contain may be effectually removed by macerating them in an alkaline solution. The powdered kernel sniffed up the nostrils causes sneezing, and has been used suc- cessfully in diseases of the head and eyes. The bark, taken from branches from three to five years old, has been extensively employed on the continent as a substitute for Peruvian bark. It tias little smell, but is astringent and bitter, though not disagreeable. That which is col- lected in the spring is the best. The fruit aifords a valuable permanent dye for muslin or cotton, varying from buff to nankeen according to its ripeness. When about the size of a goose- berry cut the whole fruit into quarters, steep it in soft water, with just enough soap to tinge it, and when deep enough for use pour olf the clear water. The colour from the whole fruit is not unlike that of annotto. When the fiuit is nearly or quite ripe the husks only broken up and steeped in cold soft water with : tinge of soap, yield a dye which will be more or less bright according to the degree of ripeness of the husk. The tree contains so much potass that it may be used as a substitute for soap The timber of the horse-chestnut is of inferioi quality, and is not used for any other puqjoss than for fuel. HORSERADISH POWDER. The time to make this is during November and December Slice the horseradish to the thickness of a shilling, and lay it to dry gradually in a Dutch oven. A strong heat soon evaporates its flavour When dry enough pound it and bottle it. HORSERADISH SAUCE, COLD. SeeHOU [ 47 ] HOR Benton Sauce.) Chop up some parsley, chibbal, shallots, a clove of garlic, capers, and anchovies; to these add a spoonful of horseradish scraped very finely, a spoonful of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. HORSERADISH SAUCE, HOT. Slice two onions, fiy them in oil, and when they begin to colour put them into a saucepan, with a glass of white wine, the same of broth, two slices of lemon (peeled), two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and two cloves. Boil these a quarter of an hour, and then strain ; add capers and an anchovy (chopped), pepper, salt, and a spoonful of horseradish boiled to a pulp ; warm the whole without boiling. HORSERADISH VINEGAR. Pour a quart of the best vinegar on 3 ozs. of scraped horseradish, which is in perfection in November, and add thereto I oz. of shallot and 1 drachm of Cayenne. Let it stand a week, and you will have a good accompaniment for cold beef or salads. ■ HOSE. See Stockings. HOT PINT, SCOTCH. Put two quarts of strong ale upon the fire in a tea-kettle, with sugar, nutmeg, ginger, and lemon zest; put a pint of Madeira or sherry, with half a pint of brandy, into a large tankard or jug, with eight or ten yolks well beaten. Mix all well together, and when the sugar is dissolved let the ale boil; mix two or three spoonsful with the ingredients in a jug, and then pour in the ale from the tea-kettle from as great a height as your arm can reach; put it again into a tea-kettle, and pour it backwards and forwards two or three tl ITl G S . HOTCHPOTCH. Take some old peas, and stew them in a little water, with some onions and a beef or ham bone. In the meanwhile fry some mutton chops well seasoned to a nice colour, and about an hour before serving put them into a stewpan ; pour the peas, &c., over, add a little butter rolled in flour, and stew them. HOTCHPOTCH OF MUTTON. Stew green peas, lettuce, and onions in a little water with a bone of beef. While these are doing fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, and three quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks into a pan, with the vegetables over them ; stew, and serve the whole together in a tureen. A knuckle of veal or scrag of mutton may be done in the same way, adding some butter rolled in flour. HOTCHPOTCH OF OX-TAIL. Cut the tail at the joints, and clean it well; cover the bottom of a saucepan with the parings of butchers' meat, and put in the tail, adding onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, thyme, basil, and two cloves. Moisten the whole well, but do not cover the meat with soup ; lay on some slices of bacon, make it boil, cover it with paper, and put it upon a moderate fire. Let it simmer four or five hours, and when done enough it will come off the bone; drain, and serve it up with a ragout of roots and butter. HOTCHPOTCH SOUP. Blanch some carrots, turnips, and celery, cut in pieces of an equal length; put them into some clear brown stock, and boil them for about an hour. In tlie meanwhile stew a few mutton chops, and just before it is served put them into the soup. Cut some crusts of bread into thin slices, trim and soak them separately in some broth, lay them carefully in a tureen, and pour the soup, with the meat and vegetables, on them. Do this gently, so that the bread may not be brolcen. HOTTENTOT PIE. Bone two calves' feet, and add chitterlings boiled and chopped small; next take two cliickens, cut them up as for eating, and put them into a stewpan with two sweet- breads, a quart of veal gravy, ^ oz. of morels, -Cayenne pepper, and salt. Stew the whole over a gentle fire for an hour, then add six or eight forcemeat balls that have been boiled, and the yolks of four hard eggs, and lay them in a good raised crust previously baked for the purpose. Strew over the top some green peas or as- paragus tops, and send it to table without a cover. HOUSE. In the choice of a residence it IS not always possible to satisfy our wishes. It may be necessary that we should live in one particular neighbourhood or town, and some- times it is important to establish ourselves in one particular situation; therefore we must overlook many disadvantages, and forego many things that we fancy essential to our comfort. On these points the disposition and temper are much concerned; in fact, they have more to do with them and with everything than people are at all aware of, A worldly-minded person, or one who has a grumbling, dissatisfied temper, will find difficulties, annoyances, and objections in almost everything, while a cheerful, thankful t spirit will see all things that cannot be avoided in a pleasant light, and turn to good account what others would mourn over in despair. It is impossible to meet with everj'- thing we want and like combined. We may spend day after day in seeking for something upon which we have set our mind, and ever finding that something connected with dis- agreeables which are of more real moment than itself. Situation, however, should be as much as possible considered, because it has much to do with health. A low situation is seldom healthy, especially in towns, and this should be avoided if there is a possibility of doing so.HOU HOU [ 48 J In the country it is of little consequence, pro- vided there is no marshy ground or standing water near the residence ; but if situated near a river or stream it is desirable that the house should be seated on an elevation, because there is always an exhalation rising from the water; and in some states of the atmosphere the course of the stream is marked by a dense mist, which extends to some distance on either side On high ground there is always a freshness, a sweetness, a buoyancy in the air, which in- fluences the spirits as well as the health, and of which we are immediately sensible when we ascend a rising ground. If we have the power of selecting a residence, therefore, it should be high and dry, and in every case as far as possible removed from anything likely to pro- duce unwholesome effluvia. The neighboui'hood of tan-yards, foundries, and all places of that description, should be strictly avoided in a town. Distilleries are frequently unbearable to those living near them ; but the lower classes are far less annoyed by such nuisances than those in a higher station ; therefore it is better not to run the risk of encountering them than to trust to the assurance that they luive never been found inconvenient. The neighbourhood ot mews, also, is very objectionable for the same reason. Noises are as unpleasant as disagreeable smells, although habit sometimes accustoms us so much to them that we cease to hear them. We re- member residing for three years near a water- mill. For a long time it was extremely dis- tressing, but by degrees the ear became familiarised to the sound, and the annoyance lessened, though it never entirely ceased. We have become so used to the ticking of a clock as at last not to hear it at all; and we have been actually obliged to listen to the incessant roar of carriages in London, which for the first few days after our arrival deafened and distracted us. Still every con- tinuous noise should be avoided if possible. Stonemasons' yards, blacksmiths' shops, iron- mongers' premises, and all noisy places of that ' description, are extremely annoying, especially to those whose habits are quiet, and whose minds are disengaged. We have time then to feel an annoyance, though, if we were busily engaged in active employment, we might be little conscious of what passes round us. At the same time, for the encouragement of all who are obliged to endure such disagreeables, let us remember that we shall be fully enabled to bear them if we regard them in their proper light, and consider that it is part of our duty to God to submit cheerfully to whatever is laid upon us, whether it be a heavy affliction or a trifling incon- venience Such is the waywardness and selfish- uess of the heart that sometimes a tiifle is more difBcult to be borne with than a positive trial ; and, insignificant as it may seem to others, we may practise as rigid self-denial by curbing our own murmuring temper in these little things as by submitting to a serious evil. And of this we may be quite sure, that if we see in everything the hand of God we shall be enabled to pass through the daily occurrences of life with wonderful composure, and comparatively little inconvenience. A town house, to be healthy, should possess plenty of good water and free ventilation. Where water is impure or scarce the incon- venience is really a very serious one, and this should be inquired into with great care as a preliminary, for no house, however suitable in other respects, can be desirable if this grand means of health and comfort is unattainable, It is not sufiicient that good water is to be had —that it is near at hand ; it should be in our house, and it must be a very strong and weighty considei'ation indeed that should induce us to overlook this point. The way to discover the pux'ity of water is to fill a deep ale glass, and then look down into it. This will display the slightest tinge of colour. To be pure water should be colourless. Hard water is objec- tionable, because it contains earthy and saline substances, which are injurious to some internal diseases. It is not so good for cook- ing, or washing, or brewing, as what is called soft water; but for washing it can be rendered soft either by using soda or lye, and for dressing vegetables a small tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda will correct the hardness. Some water is chalybeate in its nature, and will not agree with every constitution. The quantity of iron con- tained in it may be so slight that it cannot even oe called brackish to the taste, and therefore it is advisable to have water analysed to be quite sure of its being wholesome. The pipes and tanks through which water passes will some- times affect it very injuriously: by having it analysed the presence of lead will be discovered and guarded against. Water has so impoitant an influence upon the health that every caution should be taken to have it pure and good, as well as plentiful. Not a single part of our daily food is prepared without it ; therefore persons who are not, strictly speaking, water drinkers, receive a considerable quantity through that medium. Water containing iron gives additional trouble in the kitchen, because sauce- pans rust much sooner, and in one case we know that it was almost impossible to keep them in a fit state either for use or display on the shelves, for nothing looks so bad as rusty tins and saucepans. This point, therefore, should be carefully attended to in selecting a residence; for the best situation and most convenient roomsHOU HO U [ 40 ] are dearly purchased by injury to tliat greatest earthly blessing, health. Before agi'eeing to occupy a house it will be ■well to attend to the following particulars, for which we are indebted to the " Magazine of Domestic Economy:"— Observe whether the chimney-pieces are discoloured, for if such is the case, and the chimney-tops are graced with any contrivances beyond the ordinary pots, you may be sure that the chimneys smoke ; and, next- to a scolding wife, this is the most serious of domestic evils, for if the one will worry your temper, the other will destroy your health and your goods, and eventually compel you to move again. If the drains emit a disagreeable smell- -and this is the case with most of the London houses— have nothing to do with it. The best means of discovering this is to make a visit of inspection just after a shower of rain. It is seldom that you can obtain any satisfactory information from the existing tenants : if on good terms with the landlord they will conceal everything objec- tionable, and if the reverse they will enhance any fault; but you should never call to view a house at an unseasonable hour, when the family may be at meals, or the rooms not in a state to be seen. The proper time for this purpose is from eleven o'clock in the morning to two in the afternoon. All houses of the yearly rent of £iO and upwards should have one water-closet at least: this must be a sine qua non, being conducive to health and comfort. If you resolve to dis- pense with such a condition be sure to pay a visit to the garden, and ascertain the state of the convenience. If it requires emptying, and the landlord will not agree to get it done, you may set down an item of a guinea at least for this job ; and you should stipulate that the contents be taken away, not deposited in a hole in the garden, a disgusting and unhealthy practice very often resorted to. A new house is objectionable, the first occu- pant having many things to do, trifles of them- selves, but all attended with expense. If the landlord has not taken more than ordinary pains to stock the garden this will present a barren and desolate appearance, and it takes some money to improve it. Be careful also that water is laid on. Some houses are provided with spring water only by means of a pump ; but this is not fit for domestic purposes in general, par- ticularly if washing is done at home. The beginning of September is a good time for house- hunting; but, unless you hit upon something that suits you exactly, be in no hurry to close your bargain. Many families will not permit a bill to bo exhibited at all, and, indeed, very few consent to do so, and to be troubled with persons coming VOL. II. to view at all seasons, until a few days before the term expires. You may inquire, however, of the brokers and house agents in the neigh- bourhood, for they can often inform you of houses that will be vacant, of which there is no visible notification on the outside of the premises. When you meet with a house that you imagine will suit you, your next step will be to wait on the landlord, and make the necessary stipula- tions as to terms. It is usual to give a refer- ence unless you are known to him. If paint- ing, papering, or other repairs are required, you must be careful to have an explicit understanding. Even if nothing of this kind is wanted the ceil- ings of the passage and rooms should be washed, and the offices whitewashed: this and chimney- sweeping throughout should be performed before your furniture is unpacked. Make your agreement in writing by all means, and in this form :— Memorandum of an agreement made the twenty-first day of September, 1835, between John White, of, &c., and William Brown, of, &c. The said J. W. agrees to let, and the said W. B. agrees to take, all that messuage or tenement and premises, with the yard and ap- purtenances (or, all that first floor and one room in the attic story, and a front kitchen and cellar opposite, in the house now occupied by the said J. W.), being No. in Street, Brompton, for six months, to commence from the twentj'-ninth day of September instant, at the yearly rent of pounds, payable quarterly, and afterwards from quarter to quarter, so long as the said parties may agree, at the same rent. Each party shall be at liberty to determine the tenancy on giving to the other three months' notice in writing. The said to do all needful repaii's. All rates and taxes due in respect of the said premises to be cleared off by the landlord. As witness our hands, Witness, John White. Nathaniel Neutral. William Brown, In order to put an end to the above agree- ment the tenant may give a written notice to the landlord in the following form :— I do hereby give you notice that I intend to quit and deliver up possession of the messuage and premises (or, the apartments and premises) which I now rent and hold of you, situate at No. in Street, Brompton, on the day of now next ensuing. Dated this day of 1835. William Brown To Mr. John White, landlord. If the notice be required to be given by the landlord the following form should be adopted:— I do hereby give you notice that I require you to quit and deliver up to me the possession of the messuage and premises (or, the apart- ments, &c.) which you now hold and rent of me,HOU [ 50 ] HOU situate, &c., on the, &c., now next ensuing. Dated, &c. John White. To Me. William Brown, tenant. It should he ohsen'ed that the notice must he served by another person, and not by either of the principals, and a copy of the notice should be kept by the witness who serves the original. If arrangements can be so made it is more desirable that a few days should elapse between the tenant leaving and your succeeding. This may be effected when there is a good under- standing, provided either of the houses is vacant, for it is shai'p work when four tenants are obliged to remove and follow up on Michaelmas day. It is now generally the case that the fixtures belong to the landlord ; when they do not there is often a difficulty, and if required to be taken they must be paid for promptly, which is not convenient in every case. Moreover, they may not be such as you would wish to purchase. If the house suits you in other respects, and the fixtures are to be taken for a certain sum, and the landlord will not buy them, you must judge whether such an arrangement will suit your •views. The fairest and most common mode is to take them at valuation, in which case you had better employ the tradesman who serves you ■with furniture to make these and all other ari'angements for the disposal of your own, and the purchase of the new fixtm'es, and he becomes responsible for the payment. It is deskable to part with and also to take grates, boilers, bells, and blinds, even if you dispose of your own at half value, and give a long price for the others, because the removal and fitting of these things come to nearly as much as the cost. Grates, for instance, that can be bought for twelve or fourteen shillings will cost from five to seven shillings in setting. Cai-pets and floor cloths are some- times to be got cheap, and so that they are suitable for the purpose it is for the interest of both parties that they should remain when fitted. We would by all means recommend the em- ployment of an upholsterer to pack and remove the furniture. He will lend some cases, in which books, glass, earthenware, &c., may be packed, a day or two before the removal; and these and all other articles, such as linen, clothes, &c., not in immediate use, may be dis- posed of out of the way, so as to facilitate matters. Glass and china are best removed by hand, if the distance is not too far : the jarring of the van will break them if not carefully packed. Plate-can be taken in the conveyance which removes the family, and you should start from the house just after the vans with your furniture have left, so as to arrive at your new residence before them in time to receive the goods. Many persons, with the idea of saving a few shillings, undertake to pack their furniture with the aid of a servant or some neighbour, the consequence of which generally is that they are chafed and damaged to a greater extent than would pay persons who understand the business. The furniture of an eight-roomed house may be placed on two vans, and so that the distance is not more than ten or fifteen miles the process may be completed, all expenses of turnpikes, bars, &c., included, for about three pounds. HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. Fore- most in this is keeping a correct account of your income and expenditure. {See Accounts.) To enter into minute details of management would require a large space, and even if a volume were occupied by them the directions would be applicable only to a portion of society. We shall, therefore, recommend to our readers the perusal of Mrs. Parkes' book called " Domestic Duties," and content ourselves by extracting the following general hints from "The Maga- zine of Domestic Economy : "— The spring is more particularly the time for house-cleaning and bleaching linen, &c., though, of course, these matters require attention in every month of the year; and, as a servant has been known to begin scrubbing stairs from the bottom upwards, a few remarks on these common subjects may not be useless. Begin at the top of the house. First take up the carpets, and if they require it send them at once to be scoured, that they may be ready to replace by the time the rooms are cleaned. Some persons object to send cai-pets and other things to a scourer, as their substance is in some degree injured by the process. They may be well cleaned by washing them with soda and water, after having been taken up and well beaten, and nailed down again. Remove all the furniture out of the room, have the chimneys swept where fires have been in use, then scour the grates, &c. ; wrap old towels (which should be set aside for such pur- poses) round the bristles of the broom, and sweep carefully and lightly the ceiling and paper ; then with a flannel or sponge, which is preferable, and soap and water, wash all the paint well, and as fast as one person wets let another follow with linen rags, and wipe the paint per- fectly dry ; let the windows be cleaned ; and, lastly, scrub the floor. The furniture should be well rubbed before it is replaced. It is a good plan to have the paper swept evei-y three or four months. If the curtains and hangings are moreen it is better to take them down for the summer months, and after a thorough shaking and brushing to pin them up in paper, linen, or silk, with camphor, which is the best, cleanest, and most agreeable preservative from moths. Some persons use powdered black pepper,[ 51 ] HOU HOU Furs and woollen cloths are preserved in the same way, and if a house is much infested with moths the parcels should be put into a cool oven or hot closet every three or four weeks for a night, and then be opened, and every article well shaken and replaced. It is very important to keep them in a dry, cool place. General neat- ness, however, is the greatest enemy to these troublesome insects, and by frequently clearing out wardrobes and drawers all such intruders are disturbed. It is well to expose to the air, but not to the sun, and thoroughly shake any stocks of linen or woollen clothes which are lying out of use. As bugs have become so general a nuisance it is necessary to observe that much care and attention are required to exterminate them. This may be done by taking the bed- steads entirely asunder, and washing every part of them with a strong solution of corrosive sublimate. If they infest the walls the paper should be removed, and the walls washed with the same preparation before repapering them; and in inveterate cases the floor should be painted all round the skirting board to the extent of about four inches. As the corrosive sublimate is a strong poison the bottle contain- ing it should be so marked, and a caution given to whoever applies it. Perhaps the cheapest preparation is a solution of the sublimate in spirit of turpentine, with the addition of water: the powerful smell of the turpentine will tend to further the object in view. It is a bad plan to nail carpets down in bedrooms, as the dust oc- casioned by sweeping them on the floor injures the furniture, and prevents the frequent scrub- bing of the floor, which is so essential to health and cleanliness : they should be of a convenient size for taking up and beating very frequently. Every separate piece of bed furniture should be marked with a number, as No. 1 for one room. No. 2 for another, and so on, that when washed there may arise no difficulty in replacing them. The same plan should be observed with mattresses, beds, bolsters, pillows, blankets, and quilts; and an inventory of the whole should be affixed in some convenient place in each room. To prevent blinds from blowing out under the sashes in windy weather, and breaking the windows, rings should be fixed to the blinds, and guide lines fastened to the window-frames. The summer is the best season for examining and repairing household linen, as the days are long, and servants more at leisure from the absence of fires. Sheets should be turned sides to the middle before they get very thin to avoid patching, which has a very unsightly appearance. July is a good month for washing counterpanes, blankets, and heavy things in general, for they dry quickly, and are consequently of a better colour. In all large " washes " the linen, and especially cotton stockings, should be put to soak overnight; both soap and labour are thus saved. You should always provide your washers with little wooden bowls to throw their soap into, which will prevent their letting it stand in the water wasting. Make also a proper flannel " blue-bag," and let it be a rule that this and the bowls shall be delivered up after the wash, that they may be set aside in readiness for another occasion. It is a very bad plan to allow clothes to remain long dirty. In large families three weeks should be the longest space between the washes, for not only are the clothes injured, but more soap and labour are required to get them clean. In washing flannels prepare a lather expressly of soft water, soap, and a good deal of blue. Do not rinse them after the lather, but wring them as dry as possible, shake them, and hang them out. Flannel should be scalded before it is made up, since itivill shrink in the first washing. To remove the starch or " dressing " from new Irish linen it should be put to soak in cold water overnight, and be scalded next morning. Silk of almost any colour may be washed by putting it in soak for a night in cold soft water (for black silk add some blue); the next day wash it out, wring it as dry as you can, and wipe off the wet that remains with a soft cloth ; then mangle or iron it. In July currant, raspberry, and gooseberry jelly and jam are made. When black currant jelly is made for medicinal purposes moist sugar should be used; but very coarse moist sugar spoils the flavour of all fruits excepting apples. Before the period for preserving, &c., arrives all bottles and jars necessary for the purpose should be thoroughly cleaned and dried, and a stock of sugar should be laid in, remembering always that what is most pure is best for pre- serves of all descriptions. It is always a bad plan to buy sugar by the pound, for the paper is weighed in with eveiy pound. To break loaf sugar into small pieces ready for the nippers use an iron hammer and cleaver; a wooden mallet chips, and the par- ticles of wood become so incorporated with the sugar dust that it is difficult to separate them. Oranges are preserved, and orange wine is made in May. A little honey added to rasp- berry jam makes it taste richer. In summer fresh butter is usually soft and disagreeable to the eye, even when the flavour is good. To prevent this place the dish which contains the butter to stand in cold spring water, with a little saltpetre dissolved in it. Butter may be brought to table in water, but it should never stand long in it, for the part which comes in contact with the water becomes white, and has an unpleasant appearance. If fresh butler11 ou [ 32 1 fTOTT cannot Le procured eveiy or every other day it is well, wliere much is consumed, to sprinkle five or six pounds with a little salt, and press it closely down in a basin or stone pan, which prevents its Lecoming rancid ; and it is just as good for pastry, melting, and toast, and also for bread and butter, if washed through two or three waters. May is a good time for buying last years cheese ; it is then in good condition. New cheese is wasteful, and lias not attained its full flavour. During the summer months meat requires constant attention. Every day it should be examined to remove fly-blows, if any ; it should be carefully wiped diy under flaps and in all the little crevices, and shinny bits and kernels should be cut off, for they are the first to taint. Under the flap of a leg of mutton there is a skin, ■which, in hot weather, soon assumes a yellow tinge ; remove it, and with care a leg of mutton may be kept several days in the hottest weather. In a rump of beef, also, there is a long vein visible, at the root of which, and buried deep, is a kernel, which, if not taken out, will in hot weather taint the whole joint. Country butchers often omit to remove it. When meat is pur- chased for salting do not allow the butcher to send it any distance in the heat of the day ; you can never be certain of its taking the salt if it has been heated. If, however, there is no alternative, throw it into a tub of cold water for a few hours, then wipe it dry, and examine it well before salting. It should be sprinkled with salt to extract the blood the first day ; on the next day be wiped with a clean cloth; and in warm weather the first brine must be thrown away, but in cold it may be boiled, and all impurity be skimmed off; and then the meat may be regularly salted the second day. Canvas lids should be placed over salting tubs, to admit air and exclude flies, which are more destructive to salting meat than to fresh. Care must be taken to secure bacon and hams from the fly, which is very destructive to them. The best method of preserving hams is by putting them into coarse calico or canvas bags : paper is apt to break in damp weather. Herbs for kitchen use and camomile blos- soms should be cut and dried, but not in the summer. Summer is also the best time for laying in a store of soap : if it is cut into good-sized pieces and laid on shelves it will liarden. HOUSEKEEPER. Trustworthiness is an essential quality in a housekeejjer; but if she be not as vigilant as she is honest she can- not discharge lier duty well. As she is the deputy of her mistress she should endeavour to regard eveiything around her with the keen- ness and interest of a principal, rather than with the indifference of a servant. She should be constantly on the alert in observing and detecting anything wrong in the conduct of those under her. It is a part of her duty to see that each fulfils his or her share of the household employments without appealing U the heads of the family, unless she finds hei authority insufficient to check abuses and to keep the whole in order. She should be a good accountant, having books in which she may note down strictly all the current expenses of the house, and which should be cast up weekly in order to show them to her lady, and have them settled at a time con- venient to her. She should have a book, also, in which those articles of housekeejiing that are bi'ought into the house, and not immediately paid for, should be entered. It is a satisfaction to a master and mistress that this book should be ready to compare with the accounts sent by the tradesmen. It is her province to have the charge of the store-room, with the preserves, pickles, and con- fectioneiy, and to see that no waste takes place in anything intrusted to her. A clever house- keeper will be able to judge of the consumption which, from the size of the family she super- intends, will necessarily take place in each article; and when that quantity is exceeded she will instantly try to discover the cause, and to rectify it if it proceeds from any waste or care- lessness of those under her superintendence. It is absolutely necessary that she should understand the art of cooking, and everything connected with it. It is true there are houses in which professed cooks are kept; but where this is not the case it is necessary that the housekeeper should be well qualified to super- intend the whole business of the kitchen. In most places the housekeeper has to prepare all the confectionery, and how far she may be re- quired to take an active part in the cooking must depend on the qualifications of the cook under her. The housemaids, laundress, and dairymaid should also be under her eye, so that each should feel aware that her conduct is observed. Even if you should be perfectly satisfied that your housekeeper is a woman of great integrity you will still find it desirable to fix your eye constantly upon her, that her vigilance and integrity may not relax for want of this incite- ment. Symptoms of neglect on her part should never be overlooked, as they would tend to throw the whole ho\ise into confusion and irregular habits.—[Mrs. Parkes' Domestic Duties.) HOUSELEEK [Sempervimmi tectorum). The juice, either by itself or mixed with a little cream, is a cooling application for burns, scalds, erysipelas, shingles, and stings and bites of insects.nou ■[ 53 ] HOU HOUSEMAID. The first duty of the liouse- maid is to rise early, and to dress herself tidily and quickly. Her next ofBce if in summer, is to rub the stove and fire-irons with scouring paper, and to clean the hearth. When she has a mind to preserve her irons free from rust till winter, let her dissolve ^ oz. of camphire and i lb. of hog's lard together over a very slow fire, and, taking off the scum, mix as much black- lead as will bring them to an iron colour; then let her spread this composition over the steel grates and fire-irons, and letting it lie twenty- four hours, and then cleaning them neatly with a dry linen cloth, she will find them keep un- rusted for six months. Some rub their irons with mutton suet or goose grease, and, wrapping them in paper, lay them by till winter, when they wipe off the fat with a dry linen cloth, and then rub them with scouring paper. If in winter she should first rake out the ashes, and sweep the grate very clean. Common irons may be brightened by rubbing them first with a rag dipped in vinegar and the ashes, then with an oily rag, and after that witli scouring paper, rotten - stone, or white brick, but, if possible, red brick should not be used, for it makes sad work. This method of cleaning serves for all sorts of common irons or brasses, though some prefer goose grease to oil or any other sort of grease, and do not use scouring paper to brasses. If there be very fine steel stoves and fenders they should be first rubbed with oil, then with emery till clear and bright, and next polished with leather, which is an excellent thing for rubbing every two or three days irons that are not in constant use, as it takes off any spots got in that time. When she has thus prepared the stove, &c., and cleaned the inside of the hearth, she may light her fire, and wash the marble with a piece of flannel, instead of a brush, dipped in a strong lather of hot water and soap. She should then dry the hearth and round the chimney ; but if the latter be marble drying it once a week is suflicient, thougli the hearth ought to be done so to every day. Cold water, soap, and sand will do for washing freestone slabs, and she should use a brush for cleaning them, for rubbing with a fire-stone spoils the ladies' petticoats, and one cannot set a foot on slabs, so rubbed without marking the room, unless the slabs be afterwards well cleaned with a dry clotb. Where the insides of chimneys are covered with tiles, rubbing them with a wet cloth, and then drying them, is sufficient. Hearths and chimney sides of steel should be cleaned in the same manner as fine steel stoves. When the hearth and sides are of freestone they may be cleaned in the following manner: — First scour them clean as directed for free- stone slabs ; then take two pennyworth of black- lead and J lb. of coarse brown sugar, whicli, being well mixed, put into half a pint of small beer, and set on the fire, stirring the whole with a stick till well boiled; then with a little brush black the sides and bottom of the hearth at least twice over, and next day, when they are quite dry, rub them well with a hard brush, and if they be smooth and not broken they will look like steel. The bottom on which tho grate stands will require m.ore frequent repeti- tion, as the blacking wears off sooner than on the sides, which will keep bright for some weeks, or perhaps months Brick hearths brushed with a mixture of red lead and milk will have a cherry colour. When the housemaid has finished her busi- ness at the chimney she should set about cleaning the locks, having first procured a piece of pasteboard for each, with a hole cut in it just large enough for slipping over the lock to preserve the doors, to which the same side of the pasteboard should always be applied, for the dirty side would spoil them. The locks may be cleaned by rubbing them with an oily rag, and next with rotten-stone or white brick ; but she ought to be very careful that none of these last two gets into the keyhole. Lackered locks want no other cleaning but rubbing with a piece of clean leather or woollen cloth, for oil or anything damp hurts their colour. Her atten- tion should next be given to the carpets, which she may sweep with a common broom, or brush with a whisk broom, and then fold them back, after which she ought to sweep the room, having first strewed it with sand pretty damp, throw- ing it smartly from her hand, and it will lick up the dust and flue. Carpets, when they will turn, are best cleaned by laying the wrong side upwards for a day or two, and then the dust will fall on the floors. But before she sweeps the rooms she should brush and clean the window curtains, and with a broom sweep the windows and behind the shutters. She ought not to apply a brush or broom to any pictures or frames, but only to blow the dust off with a pair of bellows, though she may now and then dust them with a soft piece of flannel or very soft duster; and she should also blow off the dust from the wainscot, china, and stucco work. When she has swept the room and taken up the dust, without leaving any sluttishly in corners, her next business is to rub the wainscot from the top to the bottom with d duster, and do the same to the windows. In the next place the chairs should be dusted ; then let her sweep the stairs, throwing on tho upper stairs a little wet sand, which will bring down the dust without flying about; but if stair carpets are used this is only to be djne occa-HUG [ oi ] HYD Bioually, as the cloths are found necessaiy to be removed, though the steps ought to be swept down every daj'. After cleaning the Btairs she should dust the wainscot and balusters directly, and also the tops of the doors. As for the ceilings, or tops of the staircases or rooms, they should be dusted with a long-handled flat broom; but if they be of stucco work the dust should be blown off by a pair of large bellows with long handles, which may be had at the turners' shops. When she goes to clean the stairs let her take soft cold water and sand to scour them down with, and they will soon be dry. When the family is up she should set open the windows of the bedchambers, and uncover the beds to sweeten and air them, which will be a great help against bugs and fleas. In making the beds she ought to begin with the first aired, taking off the several things singly, and laying them on two chairs, without letting them touch the floor. She should shake the beds well every day, and if there be a mattress let her turn it at least once a week. The cleaning of the head of the bed, the valances, and curtains with a brush or whisk is not to be omitted; nor sweeping clean behind and under all the bed- steads, after which she is to sweep and clean ever}' room as before directed. By thus keep- ing a constant method her business will be a pleasure instead of fatigue. HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. Make a batter of five eggs to a quart of milk and a little butter; pick, wash, and rub in flour a pint or more huckleberries, put them in the batter, and bake as long as other puddings, or boil in a bag. HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING, ELK- RIDGE. Take 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of light brown sugar, eight eggs beaten as for a sponge cake, and add one quart of berries nicely picked, washed, and allowed to dry. Bake as a sponge cake. This may be served with sauce either hot or cold. HUILES ANTIQUES. These oils for the hair may be made of any fragrance desired by adding a few drops of attar of roses, oil of lavender, oil of bergamot, &c., to the required quantity of oil of ben. This oil never becomes thick or rank. HUNGARY WATER. Take 7 lbs. of the tops, with the leaves and flowers of rosemary, six gallons of rectified spirits, and two quarts of water, and djstil off five gallons with a moderate fire. HUNTING BEEF. See Beef, Hunting. HUNTING BREAD. Mix Hlb. of fine flour and 1 lb. of sugar; add caraway and coriander seeds, six yolks of eggs, and four of the whites beaten up in a little rose water, and strained into the flour. After this put in a little yeast, roll it out thinly, and cut it in square pieces, to be baked on buttered paners or sheets of tin. HUNTING NUTS. Beat 2 ozs. of butter to a cream, and add 4 ozs. of sugar and 8 ozs. of treacle; mix these well, and add 2 ozs. of powdered ginger, 1 oz. of candied lemon-peel cut small, and 10 ozs. of flour. Mix all well together, and form into rolls the thickness of a finger; cut them into bits, and bake on a tin in a hot oven. HUNTING PUDDING. Mix eight eggs beaten up finely with a pint of good cream and 1 lb. of flour; beat them well together, and put to them 1 lb. of beef suet finely chopped, I lb. of currants well cleaned, lb. of jai" raisins stoned and chopped small, 2 ozs. of candied orange- peel cut small, the same of candied citron, J lb. of powder sugar, and a large mitmeg grated. Mix all these together with half a gill of brandy, put it into a cloth, and boil it four hours. Be sure to put it in when the water boils, and keep it boiling all the time. When done turn it into a dish, and strew over it powder sugar. HYDROCEPHALUS, See Brain, Water ON THE. HYDROCYANIC ACID. [See Anodyne.) This is more usually known as prussic acid. This peculiar acid exists in a great variety of native combinations in the vegetable kingdom, and imparts to them certain properties which have been long known and esteemed in medicine. The more familiar of these are bitter almonds, the cherry laurel {Laura cerasus), the leaves of the peach tree, the kernels of fruit, pips of apples, &c. The prussic acid would appear to be most abundant in the thin pellicle that en- velopes the kernel. The fleshy parts of these fruits do not contain it, and even the berries of the Lauro cerasus may be eaten with impunity ; and yet the distilled water and oil of this plant form the most destructive of all narcotic poisons. It is administered in its simple but diluted form. In a sufficient dose hydrocyanic acid in- stantly destroys life by extinguishing the nervous energy of the body; but it has, at the same time, been observed that animals submitted to its action would often continue to breathe for several hours freely, and to circulate their blood, although no trace of sensibility or mus- cular contractility could be found after its application. This remarkable property of ex- tinguishing the general sensibility, without any ostensible injury to respiration and circulation, naturally led to a belief that the hydrocyanic acid, or prussic acid, might be advantageously used in cases of excessive sensibility and irrita- tion, particularly when these two morbid statesHYD [ 55 ] HYD are likely to affect either the respiratory organs or the circulation generally. As a palliative in certain spasmodic coughs there is reason for supposing that it may some- times be useful; but in that species of pul- monary irritation for which it was at first so greatly extolled it is far inferior in efficacy to well-directed doses of conium. But there is another class of diseases in which its exhibition is said to prove useful—in dyspeptic affections attended with heartburn, where it is supposed to be capable of reducing the morbid irritability of the stomach, and thereby of enabling the juices of that organ to be more slowly secreted, and of a more healthy character. As a local remedy prussic acid has also re- ceived no small share of commendation, and it has been said that it is the only application which can be depended upon for allaying the cutaneous in-itation so frequently attendant upon certain impetiginous affections. It may be conveniently administered in any liquid vehicle, as distilled water, camphor mixture, or in some vegetable infusion. Dose of the medicinal hydrocyanic acid from two to eight drops. There is, however, considerable difficulty with regard to the strength of the dilute acid employed in medicine, since the density is a criterion of greater nicety than can be conveniently used by the majority of practitioners. To counteract the poisonous effect of prussic acid Orfila recommends, after full vomiting has been excited, the exhibition of three or four spoonsful of oil of turpentine in the infusion of coffee at intervals of half an hour. M. Virey conceives that sulphate of iron in solution is the best antidote, he having observed that the salt restored a cow that was nearly killed by the essential oil of bitter almonds. When an over- dose has been taken hot brandy and water, and the ammoniated tincture of iron, are recom- mended by Mr. Thomson. HYDROMEL. In twenty gallons of spring water dissolve eight gallons of honey, and add ■1 oz. of ginger sliced. Put the whole into a cask; suspend in the liquor, from the bung, ■J oz. more ginger in a bag, and bung the cask up, leaving it to spontaneous fermentation. Have a plug near the bung, ready to draw out in case there should be any noise in the cask, in order that the carbonic acid may escape when too much formed, otherwise, if the fermentation proceeded too rapidly, the cask might burst. In twelve months the hydromel will be fit for bottling, or for drink- ing from the wood. HYDROPHOBIA. Attention to dorjs during Jiot Heather. Why the heat of the weather appears to be more oppressive to quadrupeds, particularly to dogs and those of the lower species, is their greater proximity to the ground, where there is scarcely felt the least current of air ; and this, added to the heat of the surface, has considerable influence over the arterial action of animals whose stature and conformity are not so advantageous as those of the higher class. Leaving, however, these physiological specula- tions for the present, we would strongly recom- mend to those who keep dogs, and who are anxious to preserve themselves and neighbours from harm, to supply them not only with plenty of water, but to keep them as clear of vermin, particularly during the dog days, as possible ; to give them occasionally a little brimstone and milk, and some of the worm medicines ; to turn them into fields or grassplots; and to give those that are fond of the water frequent opportunities of indulging in it. By these means the risk of their becoming mad would, if not entirely prevented, be considerably lessened. It would be advisable also, in those with shaggy coats or thickset hair, to relieve them entirely of this unprofitable and unwel- come appendage during the sultry weather, as it would grow fast enough to protect them from its inclemency when it was wanted. Attention to cleanliness, diet, and the trimming, muzzling, and othei'wise ordering of these animals, must obviously render less all danger of their becom- ing mad. Hence fewer of those melancholy scenes to which we have been forced to become witnesses, without the means of alleviation. Appearance of a mad dog. When a dog is affected with madness he becomes dull, solitary, and endeavours to hide himself, seldom barking, but making a murmuring noise, and refusing all kinds of meat and drink. He flies at strangers, but in this stage he remembers and respects his master; his head and tail hang down; he walks as if overpowered by sleep ; and a bite at this period, though dangerous, is not so apt to bring on the disease in the animal bitten as one inflicted at a later period. The dog at length begins to pant; he breathes quickly and heavily; his tongue hangs out; his mouth is continually open, and discharges a large quantity of froth. Sometimes he walks slowly, as if half asleep, and then runs suddenly, but not alwaj^s directly forward. At last he forgets his master ; his eyes have a dull, watery red appearance ; he grows thin and weak, often falls down, gets up, and attempts to fly at everything, soon becoming very furious. In this state the animal seldom lives longer than thirty hours, and it is said that his bites towards the close of his existence are the most dangerous. The throat of a person suffering hydrophobia is always much afi'ected, and it is asserted that the nearer the bite to this part the greater is the danger.n YD [ 50 J IIY r Symptoms in human beings. In the human species the general symptoms attendant on the bite of a mad dog or other rabid animal are, at some indefinite period, and occasionally long after the bitten part seems well, a slight pain felt in it, now and then attended with itching, but generally resembling a rheumatic pain; then come on wandei'ing pains, with uneasiness and heaviness, disturbed sleep and frightful dreams, accompanied with great restlessness, sudden starting and spasms, sighing, anxiety, and a love for solitude. These symptoms continue daily to increase, pains begin to shoot from the bitten part, extending up to the throat, with a tightness and sensation of choking, and a horror and dread at the sight of water and other liquids, with loss of appetite and trembling. The person, however, is capable of swallowing any solid substance with tolerable ease; but the moment that anything in a fluid form is brought in contact with his lips it occasions him to start back with much dread and horror, although he labours, perhaps, under great thirst at the time. A vomiting of bilious matter comes on in the course of the disease, and an in- tensely hot fever ensues, attended with continual watching, great thirst, dryness and roughness of the tongue, hoarseness of the voice, and the discharge of a viscid saliva from the moutl), which the patient is constantly spitting out. His respiration is laborious and uneasy, but his judgment is unaffected; and, as long as he retains the power of speech, his answei's are distinct. In some few instances a severe delirium arises, and closes the frightful scene; but it more frequently happens that the pulse becomes tremulous and irregular, convulsions arise, and nature becoming at length exhausted, the un- happy patient sinks under the pressure of his misery. « Preveidion and treatment. In the first place the bitten part, as soon after the accident as possible, should be completely cut out; it should then be suffered to bleed, and the bleeding pro- moted by warm affusions; and after this has been practised for some time a cupping-glass is to be applied over the part, and suffered to re- main until it produces visible effects of its ex- hausting power. The wound then, on the removal of the cupping-glass, may be washed ^yith a weak solution of muriatic acid (forty drops to a pint of water) three or four times "a day, and a piece of rag or lint moistened in the same left applied on the part. Should some degree of inflammation ensue, as most likely will be the case, the solution may then be laid aside. The wound may now be dressed with dry lint, and warm poultices applied until suppuration be promoted. When this is effected the wound may be healed in the usual way. Daring this treatment the jjatieut is recom- mended to take two of the following pills at bedtime every night for three weeks or a month after the accident:—Take blue pill, 1 drachm ; powdered rhubarb, 2 scruples; extract of hem- lock, 10 grains. Make twenty pills, to be taken as above. With respect to cauterising the bitten pai't we do not place so much reliance upon it; the application of nitric acid or similar articles, in our opinion, cannot have the same influence in arresting the progress, beyond momentarily, of so subtle a matter as the hydrophobic varus. It may sear the mouths of the absorbents, and prevent the poison from being immediately talien up by therp; but as soon as the parts slough, and the subtle virus again escapes, the absorbents being rendered more sensible to their own action from being confined or tem- porarily blunted, they now, when set at liberty, are capable of increased action, and the virus, con- sequently, not being annihilated, is more likely to be carried into the system. Excision of the part, and the treatment here recommended, present none of these uncertainties, and, as fai' as it has hitherto been adopted, has invariably proved successful. Much has been said about the cause of hydro- phobia, which we believe to be equally as wide from truth as the means of cure hitherto from certainty. Among these is food of a highly putrid nature; then what animal lives upon aliment of this description more constantly and more abundantly than hogs ? Corrupted and unwholesome waters are also assigned; but do we not see dogs, in general, prefer the filthiest stagnant pools to the purest waters? Hot iveather, again, is urged, although it by no neans appears that canine madness is so pre- alent among dogs in warm climates as in cold ones. These may occasionally be con- comitant causes, but are by no means those on which the disease is said to depend. It appears, therefore, more probably to be a specific contagion produced by causes yet un- known, and propagated among these animals from one to the other by a peculiarity con- genial with their nature. HYPOCHONDRIA. Few, we are persuaded, are aware of the very slight causes which pro- duce this worst of maladies. It is rarely imagined that the disappointments and dis- tresses which are so frequent in this mercantile country', brooded over and indulged in—nur- tured we may almost say—should lay the foundation of a malady which is lilcely to end. at no distant period, even in the commission of suicide. The irritable and the sensitive are more peculiarly liable to be affected by aHYP [ 67 ] HYP disease of tliis nature, and those subject to disorders of the stomach and digestive organs. It behoves every man, therefore, to guard carefully against whatever will tend in the remotest degree to produce derangement of the digestive organs, for whenever a man finds, says Dr. Johnson, any alteration in his temper or moral feelings, there being no adequate moral cause, he should suspect some 2')husical cause. Let him, then, narrowly watch the state of these deviations from natural temper or feelings after free living and after abstinence, after complicated dishes and after plain food, after wine and after water. He will readily recognise the correspondence between cause and effect; and if so, how can we have a better test for the nature of the complaint, or a firmer basis for the treatment? Even if the orighial causes be purely of a moral nature, as, for instance, severe losses in business, still the mental despondency is aggravated by the morbid sensibility of the stomach; and this morbid sensibility is mitigated or exasperated by the quality and quantity of our food and drink. The physician cannot cure the moral cause that preys upon the mind, and through that medium injures the body; but he can in a great measure prevent the reaction of the body on the mind, by which reaction the moral affliction is rendered infinitely more diffi- cult to bear. Thus a man loses by speculation a certain sura of money, which makes a con- siderable impression on his mind, and depresses his spirits. After awhile he finds that time, instead of healing the wound which misfortune had inflicted, has increased it; and that what he could look upon with some degree of fortitude in the beginning has now become such a source of despondency that it haunts him by day and by night, and is for ever uppermost in his thoughts, and even his dreams. He finds, moreover, that some days he can view the misfortune with courage, and spurn the idea of giving way under it, while on other days it presents itself in the most frightful colours, and he seems completely deprived of all forti- tude to resist its overwhelming influence. What does it teach us ? Why, that the moral afflic- tion was borne with comparative ease till the digestive organs were impaired through the agency of the mind, when reaction took place, and impaired in turn the mental energies. But how are we to account for the fact that one day the individual will evince fortitude, and the next despair, all the attendant circum- stances of the moral evil remaining precisely as they were ? It can be clearly accounted for by the occasional irritation of food or drink exasperating the morbid sensibility of the stomach, and thereby re-acting on the mind. This temporary irritation over, the mind again recovers a degree of its former serenity till the cause is re-applied. We were led to this solu- tion of the enigma some years ago, by observing that a very aged hypochondriac was every second day affected with such an exasperation of his melancholy forebodings, that he did nothing but walk about his room wringing his hands, and assuring his servants that the hand of death was upon liim, and that he could not possibly survive more than a few hours. Under these gloomy impressions he would refuse food and drink, and, in fact, give himself up for lost. The succeeding sun, however, would find him quite an altered man. The cloud had broken away, hope was rekindled, and the appetite for food and drink was indulged ad libitum. Next morning all would again be despair, and nothing but death could be thought of. So he went on as regularly as light and darkness ; but if, ou the good day, he could be kept on a very small portion of food, and the bottle unopened, the next would be good also. This, however, could seldom be done, for as soon as he felt a respite from his miseries, procured by one day's ab- stinence, he returned to his usual indulgences, and again irritated his stomach and bowels, and through thera reproduced the blue devils in his mind. Another curious phenomena was ob- served in this case, and, indeed, we have seen the same in many others, namely, that any purgative medicine which operated at all briskly brought on an exasperation of the mental de- pression. He was always better when the bowels were constipated, clearly showing that whatever irritated the nerves of the alimentary canal, whether as food or as physic, increased the mental malady. Indeed, the abuse of irritating purgatives is one of the common physical causes of this morbid sensibility, and should be care- fully avoided in the treatment of the disease. We have known many instances where in- dividuals having this morbid sensibility of the gastro-intestinal nerves experienced, after eating certain articles of difficult digestion, such a, state of irritability of temper, that they were conscious of the danger they ran by the slightest collision or contradiction from even the nearest relations, and therefore avoided society till the fit went off. One gentleman in this state always caused his servants to tie his hands together, lest in the paroxysm of irrita- tion, without any ostensible cause, he should cut his throat, or otherwise commit suicide. There was great difficulty in keeping this gentleman from wine in excess. Tartar emetic was, therefore, put into it unknown to him, and produced vomiting every time he took it. He persevered for a day or two, and then took such a disgust tp his usual beverage that heh;ys HYS I 58 ] could not bear tlie sight of it. This also effectually checked his appetite for food, and for a time there was almost a total cessation of the irritability of temper and paroxysms of agitation till he got back to excesses of the table. In fine, it is impossible to enumerate the thousand ways in which different people are affected in their tempers and dispositions from tbis morbid sensibility of the nerves, and that without any material feeling of discomfort in •the very parts where the morbid sensibility exists. They cannot, therefore, point out the causes of their wretched feeling, nor can their medical attendant often detect it. Their com- plaints are considered imaginary, and pass un- pitied; and the unliappy victim of a real physical malady, which preys on his vitals, is thus set down as a hypochondriac, and so bantered and ridiculed by his friends that the world is to him a purgatory, from which he has little regret in parting. The medical and physical treatment directed for Dyspepsia is quite applicable to hypo- chondria. HYSSOP {Hyssopus officinalis) is a native of the south of Europe and the East. It has a strong, aromatic odour, and a warm, pungent taste. The leaves and young shoots are occa- sionally used as a pot herb, and the leaves and flowering tops are dried for medicinal purposes. Hyssop is a gently stimulant aromatic, and its infusion is employed in chronic catarrhs and disorders of the breast and lungs. Its virtues depend on an essential oil, which is obtained by distillation, and which is sometimes employed instead of the plant. It was long supposed that this was the hyssop of Scripture; but it has now been very satisfactorily shown that the plant there mentioned is Capparis spinosa, or the caper. HYSTERICS. This complaint, also called the hysteric passion, appears under various shapes, and is frequently owing to a lax, tender habit, obstructions, &c. In the fit the patient is seized with an oppression at the breast and difficult respiration, accompanied with a sense of something like a ball ascending into the throat, which puts her under great apprehen- sions of being suffocated. There is a loss of speech, and generally violent convulsive motions. These, with a train of hj^pochondriac symptoms, are sufficient to determine tbe disease, to which may be added frequent laughing or crying, and various wild irregular actions, after which a general soreness is felt all over the body, the spirits are low, the feet are cold, the urine is clear and limpid, and discharged in great quantity. The hysteric fit may be easily dis- tinguished from fainting, for in this the pulse and respiration are entirely stopped; in that they are both perceivable. Nothing recovers a person sooner from the hysteric fit than putting the feet and legs in warm water. When low spirits proceed from a suppression of the piles, &c., these evacuations must be encouraged, or repeated bleeding sub- stituted. When they take their origin from long - continued giief, anxious thoughts, and other distresses of mind, nothing has done more service in those cases than agreeable company, daily exercise, and especially long journeys and a variety of amusements. Light animal food, red wine, cheerful com- pany, and a good clear air, with moderate exercise, are of great importance in this dis- order. Drinking tea and such-like tepid re- laxing fluids should by no means be indulged in, though tea is far from being so bad as it has been supposed. The cure consists in what- ever tends to strengthen the solids and the whole habit in general, and nothing will effect this more certainly than a long-continued use of the chalybeate waters and riding on horseback. Anti-hysteric spirits. Take of proof spirit 1 pint; sal ammoniac, 2 ozs. ; asafcetida, 0 drachms; potash, 5 ozs. Mix, and draw off by distillation 1 pint with a slow fire. The spirit is pale when newly distilled, but acquires a considerable tinge by keeping. The dose is a tea-spoonful in some water during the hysterics, and the same to be taken occasionally. Anti-hysteric pills. Take of the compound pills of galbanum 2 drachms; rust of iron, 4 scruples; and as much syrup of ginger as is sufficient to form a mass, which is to be made into forty pills, of which take four at noon and seven in the morning every day, drinldug after them half a glass of port wine. These pills are excellent in hysteric complaints. The fetid injection is made by adding to the ingredients of the common clyster two drachms of the tincture of asafcetida. In cases of hysterics and convulsions the fetid injection is of singular service. Opiate draught. Mix together cinnamon water, 1 oz.; spirit of caraway, ^ oz.; sulphuric ether and tincture of castor, of each ^ drachm. Let this draught be taken every six houi'S if the stomach should be affected by cramp. If the feet are cold, bottles filled with hot water should be applied to them. Tonic for debility in females. Take of soft extract of bark 2 drachms; calumba and rust of iron, of each 1 drachm ; and as much simple syrup as is sufficient. Make into fifty pills, take two, and gradually increase to five, three times a day. Compound galbanum pills. Take of galbanum, opoponax, myrrh, and sagapenum, of each 1 oz.;[ 59 ] ICE ICE asatetida, ^ oz.; and as much syrup of saffxon as is sufficient. Beat them together, and make them into five-grain pills. These pills are excellent as anti-hysterics, and for suppressions and ohstructions. Four or more may be taken every night, or oftener. Compound spirit of lavender. Take of spirit of lavender 3 lbs.; spirit of rosemary, 1 lb.; cin- namon and nutmeg, of each J oz.; red sanders, 3 drachms. Digest for ten days, and strain off. This is often taken upon sugar, and is a salutary cordial, far preferable to drams, which are too often had recourse to by persons feeling a great sinking or depression of spirits in hysteric affections. I. ICE: To Prepare. {See Freezing Mix- tures.) Take a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, and throw in among it a large handful and a half of salt. You must prepare it in the coolest part of the house, that as little warm air as possible may be admitted. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice pot, cover it, immerse it in the ice, and draw it round the pot so that it may touch every part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, removing the parts that ice round the edges of the centre. If the ice cream or water be in a form shut the bottom closely, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket to let the ice off as it thaws. ICE CREAM, BARBERRY. Put a spoon- ful of barberry jam into a basin with one pint of cream, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and mix the whole, with the addition of some cochineal to colour it. Put it into the freezing pot, and, having covered it, place it in a pail in the middle of the ice, over which throw some salt; turn the pot round for ten minutes, then open and scrape it from the sides, cover it again, and keep turning till the cream is as thick as butter; put it into butter, pour it into moulds, and set them in a pail covered with ice and salt for three quarters of an hour, till the water comes up to the top. Use plenty of salt, or the cream will not freeze. Dip the mould in water, and turn out the cream on a plate when about to send it to table. ICE CREAM BISCUIT. Take some pieces of broken loaf sugar, and rub off on them the yellow rind of four lemons ; then pulverise the sugar, and mix it with |lb. of loaf sugar 'already powdered. Have ready eight small Naples biscuits or sponge cakes grated finely, and stir them in turn with the sugar into a quart of cream. Give the whole one boil up, then put it into a freezer, and freeze it in the usual manner. Afterwards transfer it to a pyramid mould, and freeze it a second time. Similar ice cream may be made with macaroons broken small and dissolved in the cream, from whence half a pint must be previously taken, and boiled with a handful of broken-up bitter almonds. Afterwards strain this, and mix it with the rest. ICE CREAM CAKES. Stir together till very light \ lb. of powder sugar and \ lb. of fresh butter; beat six eggs very lightly, and stir into them half a pint of rich milk ; add gradually the eggs and milk to the butter and sugar, alternately with ^ lb. of sifted flour, and then a glass of sweet wine and some grated nutmeg. When all the ingredients are mixed stir the batter very hard, then put it into small deep pans or cups that have been well buttered, filling them about two- thirds with the batter; put them immediately into a brisk oven, and bake brown. When done remove them from the cups, and place them to cool on an inverted sieve. When quite cold make a slit or incision in the side of each cake. If very light and properly baked they will be hollow in the middle. Fill up this cavity with ice cream carefully put in with a spoon, and then close the slit with your finger to prevent the cream running out. Spread the cakes on a large dish, and either send them to table imme- diately before the ice cream melts, or keep them on ice till wanted. ICE CREAM, CHOCOLATE. Scrape down J lb. of the best chocolate, put it into a sauce- pan, and pour on it a pint of boiling milk; stir and mix it well and smoothly ; then set it over the fire, and let it come to a boil. Mix together in a pan ^ lb. of powdered loaf sugar and a pint of rich cream. In another pan beat very lightly the yolks of nine eggs. Afterwards gradually stir the beaten egg into the cream and sugar, and then put the mixture into a saucepan ; stir in by degrees the chocolate, set it over the fire, and simmer it till it is just ready to come to a boil; strain it through a sieve, transfer it to a freezer, and freeze it in the usual manner of ice cream. ICE CREAM, PEACH. Take five soft freestone peaches perfectly ripe, pare them, and remove the stones; crack about half the stones, and extract the kernels, which must be blanched by putting them into a bowl, and pour- ing on boiling water to loosen the skins ; then break them up or pound them slightly, put them into a little saucepan, and boil the kernels in a small quantity of rich milk till it is highly flavoured with them, keeping the saucepan covered; strain out the kernels, and set the milk to cool. Put the peaches in a large, broad, shallow pan or a flat dish, and chop them veryICE ICE [ 60 ] small; mix with the chopped peaches siifScieut powdered loaf sugar to make them very sweet, and then mash them to a smooth jam with a small spoon. Measure the peach jam, and allow to each quart a pint of cream and a pint of rich unskimmed milk. Mix the whole well together, and put it into the freezer, adding, when the mixture is about half frozen, the milk in which you boiled the kernels, which will greatly improve the peach flavour. When well frozen turn out the cream, and serve it in a glass bowl. If you wish to have it in a shape transfer it to a mould, and give it a second freezing. Before you turn it out wash the out- side of the mould all over with cold water, or wrap a wet cloth round it; then open it, and the ice cream will come out easily. ICE CUSTARD WITH VANILLA. Boil three pints of rice milk with as much vanilla as will give it a good flavour, and sweeten it to your taste. Have ready four eggs beaten well, pour the boiling milk on them, and keep stirring till cool, when put it to freeze. ICE MOULDS. Sarbotieres, or moulds for cream or fruit ices, are made of two sorts of materials, block tin and pewter. Of these the latter is the best, the substance to be iced con- gealing more gradually in it thau in the former, an object much to be desired, as, when the ice is formed too quickly, it is very apt to be rough and full of lumps like hail, especially if it be not well worked with the spatula. The other utensils necessary for this operation are a deep pail, with a cork at the bottom, and a wooden spatula about nine inches long. Being so far provided, fill the pail with pounded ice, over which spread four handsful of salt; then having filled the sarbotiere or mould with cream, &c,, put on the cover, and immerse it in the centre of the ice pail. Take care the ice touches the mould in all parts, throw in two more handsful of salt, and leave it a quarter of an hour ; then take the cover from the mould, and with the spatula stir the contents up together, so that those parts which touch the sides of the mould, and consequently congeal first, may be mixed with the liquid in the middle; work this about for seven or eight minutes, cover the mould, take the pail by the handles, and shake it round and round for a quarter of an hour; open the mould a second time, and stir as before. Continue these operations altei'nately until the cream, or whatever it may be, is entirely congealed, perfectly smooth, and free from lumps. Take care to let out the water, which will collect at the bottom of the pail, by means of the cork, and press the ice close to the sarbotiere with the spatula. When the cream is iced take it from the pail, dip the mould in warm water, but do not let it remain in an instant; dry it quickly, turn it out, and serve it as soon as possible. All sorts of ices are finished in this manner. The preparation of the articles of wliich they are composed constitutes the only difference between them. ICED GRAPES. Take large, close bunches of fine, ripe, thin-skinned grapes, remove any that are imperfect, and tie a string in a loop to the top of the stems. Strain into a deep dish a sufficient quantity of white of egg, and dip the bunches of grapes into it, immersing them thoroughly; then drain them, and roll them about in a flat dish of finely powdered loaf sugar till they are completely coated with it, using the fingers to spread the sugar into the hollows between the grapes. Hang up the bunches by the strings till the icing is entirely dry. They should be dried in a warm place. Send them to the supper table at a party on glass dishes. ICED JELLY. Make calfs-foot jelly in the usual way, then put it into a freezer, and freeze it as you would ice cream. Serve it up in a glass bowl or in jelly glasses. You cannot mould it this way; but the taste of jelly when broken up is much more lively than when moulded: it also sparkles and looks more handsome. ICELAND MOSS (Cetmria Mandica). Soak 2 ozs. of moss in boiling water sufficient to cover it for an hour, squeeze out the w^ater from it, and throw it away. Boil the moss in three pints of water until reduced to two pints, and strain the liquor, which when cold becomes a jelly. Fla- voured with a little white wine and sugar it is a. pleasant diet, recommended to be taken in chronic coughs, dysentery, dyspepsia, and when a patient has symptoms of consumption. ICES : To Stain. Mash and strain some ri];>e pokeberries, to each pint of juice put 1 lb. of sugar, and boil them together till they become a jelly. When cold put it in a jar, and tie it tigiuly. Use a small quantity of this to stain ice cream or jelly. ICES, BROWN BREAD. Take one pint of cream, and sweeten it with thick syrup, a little grated nutmeg, and a glass of jelly. Have ready some very fine bread crumbs made fi'om brown bread four days old, and sprinkle them by degrees into the cream. When about half frozen add jelly if you have it. ICES,'COCHINEAL COLOURING EOR. Take 1 oz. of cochineal, and put it iu a pint of water, with 1 oz. of roche alum and 1 oz. of cream of tartar. When all are boiled add I oz. of salts of wormwood, the juice of three lemons, and three gills of spirits of wine. Bottle it tightly. ICES, CURRANT. Put one large spoon- ful and a half of currant jelly into a basin with half a gill of syrup, squeeze iu one lemon and a half, add a pint of cream and a little cochineal,ICE ICI then pass it through a sieve, and finish in the general way. ICES, CURRANT (Fresh-water). Pass through a sieve a pint of currants, add to them 4 ozs. of powder sugai' and one pint of water, strain, and freeze richly. ICES, GINGER CREAM. Make halt a pint of good custard, hoil 1 oz. of the best ground ginger, sweeten it, add half a pint of cream and a little lemon juice, and put into it, half frozen, 2 ozs. of preserved ginger cut in small dice. Go on as for former ices. ICES, LEMON-WATER. Rub on sugai the clean rinds of lemons, squeeze the juice of two lemons, strain it, and boil the sugar into a strong thick syrup; add to the juice half a pint of water or good barley water, sweeten it with your symp, and add the white of an egg and some jelly. ICES, ORANGE-WATER. lake as many oranges as will be necessary, cut them in half, press the juice from them, take the pulp care- fully from the rind, put it into a bowl, poui a little boiling water on it, stir it well, and strain it through a sieve, mix this with the orange juice, and stir in as much sugar as will make a rich syrup. If the oranges are fine rub some of the sugar on the peel to extract the essence. Freeze it like ice cream. ICES, PINE-APPLE CREAM. Pare a ripe juicy pine-apple, chop it up finel}', and pound it to extract the juice; cover it with sugar, and let it lie awhile in a china bowl. When the sugar has entirely melted strain the juice into a quart of good cream, and add rather less than ] lb. of loaf sugar. Beat up the cream, and freeze it in the same manner as common ice cream, ICES, RED CURRANT WATER. Use either the syi'up from currants or currant jelly dissolved, and half a pint of barley water, always cold. Use a little lemon juice The '•est as for former ices. ICES, ROMAN PUNCH. To make a gallon take one pint and a half of the best brandy, the same quantity of the best rum, three gills of good Madeira or sherry, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and six lemons; rub four of the lemons on the sugar, and then mix as you would for punch, with two quarts and a half of water Freeze it as ice cream is frozen. ICES, STRAWBERRY CREAM. Pass a pint of picked strawberries through a sieve with a wooden spoon, add 4 ozs. of powder sugar and a pint of cream, and freeze. ICES, VANILLA CREAM. Take two quarts of rich cream and one quart of rich milk; put the milk on the fire, cut up a vanilla, beat it in small pieces, and throw them into the milk, letting them boil half an hour. Beat up a table-spoonful of flour or powdered arrowroot in some cold milk, and stir it gradually into the boiling milk. Beat up three eggs well, adding a little cold milk to them ; pour them into the boiling milk, and boil the whole together a few minutes, stirring it all the time ; take it off the fire, and strain it through a fine sieve ; add the two quarts of cream and 3 lbs. of sugar, and stir it till the sugar is dissolved. When cold put it in a freezer, which should be made of pewter, though block tin is often used ; place the freezer in a deep pail, which should be partly filled with pounded ice, and surround it with coarse salt and ice in alternate layers. Shake the freezer by turning the handle all the time. Every ten minutes open the freezer, and cut down the cream as it congeals around the sides, beating it well each time and also digging 't out from the bottom. ICES, WATER. If made from jams you must rub them through a sieve, adding thick boiled syrup, lemon juice, some jelly, colouring for pink, and the white of an egg whipped up be- fore you add it, to half a pint of spring water. If of jam you must have a good pint of mixture in all to make a quart mould; if from fruits with syrup you will not require water. ' ICING FOR CAKES (1). For a large cake beat and sift 8 ozs. of fine sugar, put it into a mortar with four spoonsful of rose water, and the whites of two eggs beaten and strained; whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold dip a feather in the icing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden, but do not let it remain long enough to discolour. Keep the cake in a dry place. ICING FOR CAKES (2). Dissolve some fine white gum arable (finely powdered) in rose water. The proportion should be as much of the gum-arabic powder as will lie on a six- pence to a tea-spoonful of rose water. Beat some white of egg to a stiff froth that will stand alone ; stir in gradually sufficient double- refined powdered loaf sugar to make it very thick (a good proportion is 4 ozs. of sugar to the white of one egg); add to this quantity a tea-spoonful of rose water, with the gum arabic dissolved in it, and beat the whole very hard. Instead of rose water you may dissolve the gum in fresh lemon juice. Previously to icing the c:.k 3 dredge it with flour, and in a few minutes wip3 it off with a clean towel. This, by re- moving the greasiness off the outside, will make the icing stick on the better. Heap the icing first on the middle of the top of the cake, and then with a broad-bladed knife spread it evenly all over the surface. Dip the knife frequently in a bowl of cold water as you proceed, and smooth the icing well. If not thick enough wait till it dries, and then add a second coat.IDI [ 62 ] ICI ICING FOR A LARGE CAKE. Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs, and then by degrees beat in 1 lb. of double-refined sugar sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen vessel, and add orange-flower water and a piece of fresh lemon-peel. Do not use more of the orange-flower water than is just sufficient to flavour it; whisk it for three hours till the mixture is thick and white; then with a thin bit of board spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven. An hour will harden it. ICING FOR TARTS AND PIES. Just before you put the tarts into the oven beat up the white of an egg till it comes to a stiff' froth ; wash over the tops of the tarts with it, using a quill feather or paste brush, and sift white sugar over the egg. ICING WINE. " The Butler," in Messrs. Houlstonand Stoneman's "Industrial Library," makes the following very sensible remarks :— Icing wines must not be done indiscriminately; therefore, in this respect, you had better be guided by the orders you receive. Some wines may be iced with advantage, such as the highly effervescing champagne wines. Claret and port require a little warmth. In summer sherry and some other wines may be cooled by being placed in ice and water, but it is disputed whether any but common wine should be iced. Bur- gundy is considered best at the temperature in which it is taken from the cellar. It is better to cool the glasses with small lumps of Wenham Lake ice than it is to ice choice wines. Prevent the wines from getting warm, but do not ice them without orders. IDIOTCY. Individuals labouring under con- genital idiotism are mai-ked by some striking characters. At its commencement it is indi- cated both by feebleness of body and feebleness of mind. In some countries this melancholy disease is not uncommon, and it has been par- ticularly remarked in the Valais in Switzerland, and in Carinthia. In the former country the subjects of it are styled cretins. But wherever found, whether in individual instances, or ori- ginating in some national cause, the appearance may generally be described as follows :— The skull is usually smaller and inferior in height to the skull of maniacs, and there is a great disproportion between the face and head, the former being much larger than the latter. The countenance is vacant and destitute of meaning, the complexion sickly, the stature usually dimi- nutive, the lips and eyelids coarse and promi- nent, the skin wrinkled and pendulous, and the muscles loose and flabby. To these are usually added a complication of other diseases. The subjects are rickety, scrofulous, or epileptic ; the eyes are squinting or convulsive; and the hearing is impeifect or totally destroyed. Dr. Reeve visited the Valais, and saw several of these unhappy beings. One lad, twelve years old, could speak a few words, but was silly, and of a weak and feeble habit. Another boy, nine years old, was deaf, dumb, and idiotic. Neither of these, however, had goitres. A third, a girl, twelve years old, was deaf, dumb, and cross-eyed, and had a monstrous goitre ; while a fourth had an enlarged abdomen, and some feeble traces of understanding. While some are dumb, others express them- selves in inarticulate sounds, cries, or a prolonged roar. A few are able to utter a word or two distinctly, as with the idiot mentioned by Esqui- rol. This was a female, aged twenty-one years, who had been in the Salpetriere three years without any change. Her head was large and irregularly shaped, and the forehead high and prominent, so that the facial angle was more than ninety degrees. She ate voraciously, and without discrimination, passed all evacuations involuntarily, but the menses were regular and abundant. She walked little, and all her move- ments were convulsive. She was a perfectly helpless infant, insensible to heat, cold, rain, or even her own internal feelings. She could only utter the words " papa " and " mamma," which she frequently repeated. Dr. Rush relates the case of a boy born near Philadelphia, which is no less striking. He was twenty years old when that distinguished phy- sician published his work, and was then unable to walk or speak. He had the head of a man, but all the parts below it resembled those of a child two or three years old. His pulse was from ninety to one hundred and twenty in a minute. He had shed his teeth, and now ex- hibited a third set, in three distinct rows, in his upper jaw; and yet, with all this, he was unable to chew his food, and all that he took of a solid nature was first chewed for him by his sister. His ears were very large. When hungry or in pain he cried, but more commonly laughed for hours, and even for whole nights together, and so loudly as to disturb the sleep of bis family. He discovers mind, says Dr. Rush, in but three things, viz., in an affection for his mother and sister, and in love for a dog and for money. Distress is manifest when the dog is out of his place, and the pleasure which money gives him is owing to the association he has been enabled to form between it and the means of procuring gingerbread, of which he is fond. We must not, however, be understood as stating that all who belong to the class of idiots are dis- tinguished by equally striking marks. There is a variety in this as in other diseases. Some approach to the description of dementia, or what is commonly called imbecility/; othei"s appearIDI [ 63 ] capable of cultivating the memory and attention. Though in general harmless and timid, yet there are occasionally exceptions. We will now consider another and disputed form of mental disease, which, in conformity to the nomenclature of many experienced observers, we have denominated moral insanity. It has professedly been adopted, because phy- sicians have not been able to detect any delusion or hallucination in the persons affected. The intellectual faculties appear to have sustained but little injury, but the feelings and affections are perverted and depraved, and the power of self-government is lost or greatly impaired. Thus Spurzheim defines insanity to be either a morbid condition of any intellectual faculty, without the person being aware of this, or the existence of some of the natural propensities in such violence that it is impossible not to yield to them. Dr. Elliotson, while approving of this, suggests that there should be included in the definition the idea of such irresistible violence as leads to criminal acts. Pinel was so struck with the peculiarity of this form that he intro- duced it as a distinct species in his work, under the title of " madness without delirium or hallu- cination." Esquirol, indeed, goes so far as to assert that this is the proper characteristic of mental de- rangement. " There are madmen," he observes, " in whom it is difficult to discover any trace of hallucination ; but there are none in whom the passions and moral affections are not disordered, perverted, or destroyed. I have, in this parti- cular, met with no exception." Concurring in these opinions from actual observation, Dr. Prichard, in a late essay on this subject, has proposed the following defini- tion :— " Moral insanity or madness consists in a morbid perversion of the natural feelings, affec- tions, inclinations, temper, habits, and moral dispositions, without any notable lesion of the intellect or knowing and reasoning faculties, and particularly without any maniacal halluci- nation." According to our author individuals of this description are often, before the idea of their in- sanity occurs, reputed to be of singular, wayward, and eccentric character. They commit many equivocal actions; their temper and disposition are found to have undergone a change, probably in consequence of some misfortune or loss, or from some shock to the constitution. The al- teration is gradual, but sufficient to excite the apprehension and solicitude of friends; and though- they may be unwilling to recognise the actual disease, yet they must notice caprice and fickleness in pursuits, united with a total per- version of affections. Enmity against their dearest friends is a frequent trait in such individuals. " Persons labouring under this disorder are capable of reasoning or supporting an argument on any subject within their sphere of knowledge that may be presented to them, and they often display great ingenuity in giving reasons for their eccentric conduct, and in accounting for and justifying the state of moral feeling under which they appear to exist." They think and act, however, under the influence of strongly excited feelings. It is under this division of insanity that the commission of acts of violence very frequently occurs. The French writers insist much on a faulty education as the principal cause, and there is no doubt that they have given in this the key to most of the histories with which legal and me- dical works have lately been filled. The temper is scarcely attempted to be restrained; nay, its very transports are encouraged and justified, and it is hence not surprising that, as age advances, liberty of action should be converted into licen- tiousness. France has tried the experiment. Other countries are rapidly feeling its early results. Pinel relates the case of a self-willed, violent boy, encouraged by his mother in every caprice and passion. The slightest opposition produced actual violence. Any animal that offended him was put to death. As he grew up he was con- stantly engaged in broils, and ended his career by murdering a person who used offensive lan- guage to him. On his trial this course of conduct was adduced as proof of his insanity, and he was condemned to perpetual confinement in the Bicetre. The results of this species are various. In many it displays itself in an irresistible propen- sity to commit murder (homicidal mania); in others to commit theft; while some are impelled to set fire to buildings, often of the most vene- rable description. We are told that, when this state is connected with the false belief of some personal injury actually sustained, " it does not come under the head of moral insanity." Here is an hallucination. " But if the morliid pheno- mena include merely the expressions of intense malevolence, excited without ground and provo- cation, actual or supposed, the case is strictly one of moral insanity." Though there are many, as above described, who have this propensity to commit each and every kind of mischief, yet there are some where the disease commences and ends in intense irascibility. A large proportion are subject to melancholy and dejection of mind, unaccom- panied, however, by any illusion. It would appear to be confined to no age, and, indeed, is said occasionally to make its appearance iu those[ 04 ] IMP ILI advanced in years. Their whole moral character is changed ; " the pious," saj's Dr. Burrows, " become impious, the liberal penurious, the sober drunken." In this description, which is taken from the writings of the most esteemed modern authors on insanity, we need hardly suggest to the reader the striking resemblance that it bears to crime. Owing to this our legal tribunals can hardly be considered as giving an assent to its actual existence. Besides the forms of insanity already described, there are others mentioned by systematic writers, as demonomania, which is a variety of melancholy, originating from mistaken ideas on religious subjects, and nympJiomania, or furor uterinus, a raving mania of females, con- nected with a disorder of the generative organs. A short enumeration of the causes of insanity may be introduced in this place. They are usually divided into physical and moral, or bodily and mental; but a separation of this nature is not conducive to just views of the disease. Insanity is essentially a bodily disease, and the moral causes operate in producing it as they do in producing other complaints. We may enumerate the following as remote causes :—Repeated intoxication, abstinence, in- juries to the head, fever, suppressed discharges and secretions, excessive evacuations, mercury largely and injudiciously administered, paralytic affections, influence of particular seasons, heredi- tary predisposition, sedentary habits, excess in pleasure, factitious passions, mistaken views of religion, parturition, errors in education, intense application to a particular study or object of in- vestigation, misfortunes, the excitement of poli- tical changes, and particularly a state of war ; and it may be added, as to sex, that upon a comprehensive comparison, there is found to be i\o other disproportion among the insane than among the sane population in general. It should be remembered that the insanity of females is always aggravated at the period of menstruation, particularly when it is in a morbid state. ILIAC PASSION. Severe sensation of pain is perceptible in the intestines. Their worm-like motion is inverted, and the feces are discharged upward. Constant inclination to vomit attends. A fever arises from the local irritation. The causes are such as produce spasmodic constriction of some part of the intestines ; or they are such obstructions of them as hardened feces, or the running of one intestine into another. The feces, as discharged upward, will pre- vent this affection from being confounded with any other. This disease seldom admits of a cure. Cessa- tion of pain, and the coming on of hiccups and cold clammy sweats, are forerunners of a fatal termination. It is always advisable to bleed, and that even largely and repeatedly, both to prevent inflam- mation coming on, and to take off the spasm of the bowels. This removal of spasm is to be further promoted by the application to the belly of flannels wrung out of hot water, or by putting the patient into a warm bath. It would be a most desirable object to give purgative medicines by the mouth, in order to restore the downward action of the intestines, and to dis- charge any irritating matter; but unhappily the stomach is apt to reject them all, and to frustrate our purpose. In this state we must have recourse to the seemingly dangerous and unsuitable practice of giving opium, which frequently relieves the pain, stops the vomiting, and permits us to use the proper purgative medicines. For this purpose the tincture is not so good as solid opium, one or two grains of which will remain on the stomach, when thirty cr forty drops of the medicine in a liquid form would be rejected. Patients should endeavour to refrain from drinking anything till the opium has allayed the irritation. A large blister may be applied to the abdomen • it will probably be an effectual remedy, with the only disadvantage that we have to wait some time for its good effects. If the opium and blister diminish the irritability of the stomach we are to try the exhibition of calomel, giving four grains every hour; and it is better retained when given dry, or with a little brown sugar, than when mixed with jelly or any similar substance. A dose of senna, or castor oil, or sulphate of magnesia, may be given an hour after the third or fourth dose of the cilomel. From I oz. to 1 oz. of turpentine often proves a most effectual purgative. Clysters should never be omitted. At first the milder kinds should be tried, as a large quantity of warm gruel, with a little oil, or salt, or an infusion of senna, with a portion of sulphate of magnesia. These should be tlnwvn in with considerable force. If these remedies fail, a very effectual, but a very hazardous one must be tried—the injection of an infusion of tobacco, in the pro- portion of a drachm of the leaves to an English pint of water. This is very generally followed by the most remarkable sickness, relaxation of the system, and depression of strength, and must never be given but under the direction and personal superintendence of an experienced practitioner. IMPEDIMENT OF SPEECH. In cases where a small degree of hesitation occasionally breaks the fluent tenor of discourse, much mayIMP IMP [ 65 ] be done by due attention. If, in order to setk a remedy, we might presume to offer an opinion upon this distressing defect, we should say that, as persons of delicate habits are more generally subject to it, it pi-oceeds from a constitutional trepidation of the nerves ; and we should, there- fore, recommend, as the foundation of every hope of cure, such care of the health as may tend to strengthen the whole system. All excess should be avoided, particularly in the use of wine and strong liquors, which give a momentary stimulus, and leave behind in- creased debility. All personal irregularity ought to be still more carefully guarded against; and then it may be hoped that, with the growing strength of the constitution, the defect may gradually diminish. That it is sometimes re- moved we may judge from the fact that, though we frequently meet with young persons subject to hesitations, we do not, in proportionable num- bers, meet grown people who labour under it in any great degree ; and that owing principally to some nervous affection may be selected from observing that whatever agitates the nerves either increases or diminishes the complaint. The defect is aggravated by the fear of strangers, by surprise, by impatience, by anxiety; it is moderated by familiar society, by indulgenc;e, and by tranquillity. Since, therefore, in its distressing effects, it is subject to all the varia- tions of bodily health, it may also be presumed to be capable of being relieved by those means which contribute to establish the general health and vigour. But much of the success in the combat against this defect will depend on the exertions made by the mind, and on the establishment of such habits as tend to counteract the weakness. A young person should, therefore, practise to i speak with more than usual deliberation, and to pi practise frequently, when alone, those words and letters which he finds most difficult to enounce. He should also furnish his mind with a copious vocabulary of language, and make himself as familiar as possible with all the synonymes, so that if he finds himself unable to utter a parti- cular word he may readily substitute in its place some other of nearly the same import. The habit of running over synonymes will associate them in such a manner, that the idea of one word will readily bring the other into recol- lection. It is one character of this impediment that it is obstinate in struggling with the par- ticular word which stops the current of discourse; but in such cases it appears to be the most advisable method to divert it, if it can be done, I into some other channel. Above all, a young person should be encouraged to exert the energy of his own mind, to assume a courageous com- mand over himself, to check his trepidation with determined deliberation, and, should he even fail, not to suffer himself to be disturbed, or to lose bis temper, even when laughed at by his thoughtless young companions. If his hesita- tion be not extreme these directions may be very useful, and palliate the evil in some degree, till time and strength shall, perhaps, nearly remove it. The celebrated Dr. Darwin classes impedi- ment of speech under diseases of associations. Impediment of speech is owing to the asso- ciations of the organ of speech being inter- rupted or dissevered by ill-employed sensations or sensitive motions, as by awe, bashfulness, ambition of shining, or fear of not succeeding ; and the person uses voluntary efforts in vain to regain the broken associations. The broken association is generally between the first consonant and the succeeding vowel, as in endeavouring to pronounce the word parable the ip is voluntarily repeated again and again ; but the remainder of the word does not follow, because the association between it and the next vowel is dissevered. The ait of curing this defect is, to cause the stammerer to repeat the word which he finds difficult to speak eight or ten times without the initial letter in a strong voice, or with an as- pirate before it, as arable, Aarable, and at length to speak it very softly with the initial letter parable. This should be practised for weeks or months upon every word which the stammerer hesitates in pronouncing. To this should be added much commerce with mankind, in order to acquire a carelessness about the opinion of others. Hippocrates seems to consider this defect to arise from impatience of the organs and fulness of the mind, when the ideas crowd upon each other without due arrangement. " The indistinctness," says he, " of utterance (or impediment of speech) arises either from affections of the mind, or from the hearing of external sounds. In the one case, before the sentence which should precede is completed, words foreign from it are introduced; in the other, before that which is conceived is fully expressed, intervening thoughts are charged upon it." Another very disagreeable imperfection is the guttural sound of the letter r, an imper- fection which it was formerly the fashion in France for fetiU mattres to affect, and which they called parler gras. Such an affectation has never, we believe, disgraced our taste. The imperfection is best overcome by removing the articulation from the improper seat, the throat, to the proper organs, the tongue and the palate, and by practising to continue the sound of tha letter in the proper place, or rather nearer to[ 66 ] INC IMP the teeth. This may be effected by forcing the breath between the palate and the tip of the tongue, and by causing the tongue to vibrate rapidly. Although this effort will produce an inarticulate sound, it will be a useful exercise. Words may then be practised in which this letter occurs in various combinations, slowly at first, till the proper method is acquired; and it should be the principal care to prevent the thi'oat from interfering, or being at all concerned in the articulation. In this, as in every other suc- cessful effort of persevering labour, the example of Demosthenes is encoui'aging, as he completely conquered the defect in his utterance. The hissing of the letter s, that reproach to our language, is as far as possible to be mode- rated, both by attention to composition and enunciation, and should not be exaggerated, as some are found to do. The letters m and n are also subject to be imperfectly sounded. Instead of passing the sound of m, when produced by closing the lips, entirely through the nose, it is stopped or resisted apparently between the bony and car- tilaginous part of the nose, and does not issue freely. Tins may be proved by holding the nose in the fingers, and endeavouring to pro- nounce words in which those letters require to be sounded, such as hummums (a German word), ninny, singing, ringing, &c., when the sound will appear to be violently impeded in the place mentioned. This defect is called, by a contradictory appellation, " speaking through the nose," and is seldom difficult to remove. The sound of the letter n, when formed by pressing the upper part of the tongue against the palate, should also pass entirely through the nose, but more gently than that of m. In its general combinations imperfect articula- tion is not so disagreeable as when combined with the letter g—a combination very frequent in our language, and altogether offensive to the ear -when not perfectly enounced. The ■words ringing, singing, sound as if the n was omitted, and are uttered most disagreeably, as if they were riggig, siggig. The defective arti- culation of both these letters may be success- fully got over by attention and practice, except in cases where nature or accident may have denied the sounds a passage through the proper organ. IMPERIAL. Put 2 ozs. of cream of tartar, and the juice and peel of two lemons into a stone jar, pour on them seven quarts of boiling ■water, stir, and cover closely. When cold sweeten it with lib. of loaf sugar, strain it, bottle, and cork it tightly. IMPERIAL NECTAR (1). For three gallons take six quarts of spirits, two quarts of raisin wine, 2 ozs. each of peach and apricot kernels, 1 dwt. ot oil of orange, ^ dwt. of oil of cloves, i oz. of mace, two nutmegs, half a pint of spirits, and 2 lbs. of loaf sugar. Fill up with water. The kernels, mace, and nutmegs must be pounded in a mortar, and steeped in spirit eight or ten days. Colour it mth burnt sugar, and let it stand to fine of itself. IMPERIAL NECTAR (2). Peel eighteen lemons very thinly, and steep the rinds forty- eight hours in a gallon of brandy ; then add the juice, with five quarts of spring water, 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, and two nutmegs grated; stir the whole till the sugar is dissolved, then pour in three quarts of new milk boiling hot, and let it stand two hours, after which run it through a jelly bag till fine. This may be used imme- diately, but wUl improve by keeping, IMPERIAL WATER. Put 2 ozs. of cream of tartar into a jar, with the juice and peels of two lemons; pour thereon seven quarts of boil- ing water, and when cold strain it through a gauze sieve Bottle it up, and keep it for use. INCONTINENCE OF URINE. The urine often passes insensibly without pain. This complaint is incident to people in the decline of ^ife. Should incontinence of urine be derived from paralytic affection of the muscle which con- tracts the lower orifice of the bladder, a cure will not easily be effected; if from the latter period of gestation, the disease usually ceases with the cause. When occasioned by gravel it requires a treatment similar to that disease. As arising from a communication between the bladder and vagina it does not admit of a cure, the continued dribbling preventing the parts from healing. The person thus afflicted may, nevertheless, occasionally find relief by lying with the face downward. The water being thereby hindered from constantly escaping, the aperture is sometimes closed. Children are not liable to void their urine in bed if not allowed to sleep on their backs. If other means fail relief may be obtained by a jugum in the male, and pessaries in the female, or a sponge so fastened as to become a convenient receptacle. In cases where the jugum cannot be used an instrument must be worn to receive the urine. Blisters near the seat of the disorder often have a good effect. Remedies to counteract paralytic tendency are generous diet, and the correspondent active influence of the other natural powers. Corroborants and sea-bathing will also occa- sionally be required. Should the urine be habitually evacuated during the night, as some- times happens before the age of puberty, and even-in more advanced years, persons thusINO IND I 67 ] afflicted must avoid drinking just before going to bed. They ought also to empty the bladder at the hour of repose. INCUBUS, or Nightmaee. In this disease the patient, in time of sleep, imagines he feels an uncommon oppression of weight about his breast or stomach, which he can by no means shake off. He groans, and sometimes cries out, though oftener he attempts to speak in vain. Sometimes he imagines himself engaged with an enemy, and in danger of being killed, attempts to run away, but finds he cannot. Sometimes he fancies himself in a house that is on fire, or that he is in danger of being drowned in a river. He often thinks he is falling over a precipice, and the dread of being dashed to pieces suddenly awakes him. This disorder has been supposed to proceed from too much blood, from a stagnation of blood in the brain, lungs, &c.; but it is rather a nervous affection, and arises chiefly from indi- gestion. Hence we find that persons of weak nerves, who lead a sedentary life, and live full, are most commonly afflicted with the night- mare. Nothing tends more to produce it than heavy suppers, especially when eaten late, or the patient goes to bed soon after. Wind is likewise a very frequent cause of this disease, for which reason those who are afSicted with it ought to avoid all flatulent food. Deep thought, anxiety, or anything that oppresses the mind, ought also to be avoided. Sailors are very liable to this disease. Hypochondriacs and preg- nant women are also its victims, but males more frequently than females. The nightmare is frequently occasioned oy eating a full meal of animal food, and drinking freely of fermented liquor, after long fasting and bodily fatigue, by which the whole system I is debilitated, and the digestive faculties conse- li quently impaired. When in this state the safest thing a person can take is tea, with bread and butter, which will be found to alleviate fatigue much more completely than wine. As persons afflicted with the nightmare gene- rally moan or make some noise in the fit, they should be awakened or spoken to by such as hear them, as the uneasiness generally goes off as soon as the patient is awake. Dr. Whyte says he generally found a dram of brandy taken at bedtime prevent this disease. That, however, is a bad custom, and in time loses its effect. We would rather have the patient depend upon the use of food of easy digestion, cheerfulness, exercise through the day, and a light supper taken early, than to accustom himself to drams. A glass of peppernrint water will often promote digestion as much as a glass of brandy, and is much safer. After a person of weak digestion, however, has eaten flatulent food, a dram may be necessary: in this case we would recommend it as the most proper medicine. When the nightmare goes off, as frequently is the case, without the patient awaking, strange aberrations of mind are occasionally produced, which give origin to reputed visions and super- natural visitations, even among people of supe- rior intellectual cultivation. The degree of consciousness during a paroxysm of nightmare is so much greater than ever happens in a dream, that the person who has had a vision of this kind cannot easily bring himself to acknow- ledge the deceit unless he awakes, or is aroused from his paroxysm, and discovers some incon- gruity in respect to time or place, which proves the transaction to be an illusion. Persons who are young and full of blood, if troubled with the nightmare, ought to take a purge frequently, use a spare diet, and exercise in the open air. The bicarbonate of potash, mixed with ale or porter, forms an agreeable beverage for those liable to dyspeptic symptoms and incubus. INDIAN CUBBUB. Cut a loin of mutton into nice chops, season them highly, spit them with a large onion between the chops, roast them at or over a clear fire, and serve them hot with cutcheree. INDIAN CUTCHEREE. Steep a pint of split peas, and add a large tea-cupt'ul of rice, with an onion, ginger, pepper, mace, and salt; boil till the peas and rice are swelled and tender, but not clammy, and stir them with a fork till the water is wasted. Serve up in a dish, garnished with hard eggs and whole boUed onions. The stirring it with a fork is to pre- vent the grains being broken. INDIAN INK is made of real lampblack, which is the soot formed during the burning of linseed oil. This soot is ground into a paste with gum and infusion of nut-galls. If required to be liquid more of the infusion is added, but if required in the form of cakes more soot is added to make the paste thick, and it is then dried in the sun. INDIAN MEAL BREAD. Mix one quart of Indian meal with enough boiling milk or water to make a very stiff batter; stir in a tea- cupful of molasses and a tea-spoonful of salt, with half a tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water. Let the mixture stand till it is lukewarm, then add a gill of baker's yeast, stir it well together, and let it stand in a warm place to rise for two hours; then fill buttered basins to the depth of an inch with the mixture, bake it an hour in a moderate oven, and serve it hot. INDIAN MEAL CAKES. Stir to a cream 1J lb. of brown sugar and 1 lb. of butter; beat six eggs, and mix them with the sugar and butter;[ 68 ] IND IND add a tea-spoonful of cinnamon or ginger, and stir in If lb. of wliite Indian meal and I lb. of wheat flour: the meal should be sifted. Bake in small cups, and let the cakes remain in them till cold. INDIAN MEAL MUFFINS. Scald a quart of Indian meal with enough boiling water to make a thick batter ; let it cool, and when luke- warm add a small tea-cupful of butter, a table- spoouful of yeast, a tea-spoonful of salt, and two eggs well beaten ; put it in a warm place for two hours, and then bake it in mufSn rings on a hot griddle. When one side is well browned turn them. INDIAN PICiaE(l). Take lib, of ginger, put it into a pan with salt and water, and let it remain all night; then scrape it, and cut it into thin slices ; put them into a pan with i lb. of bay salt, in which let them lie till all the following ingredients are prepared :—Take 1 lb. of garlic peeled, and lay in salt for three days; then take it out and wash it; let it lie in salt for three more days, take it out, and set it in the sun for another day till half dry. Take also 1 oz. of long pepper, 1 oz. of capsicums salted and laid in the sun for three days, a pint of black mustard seed bruised, and ^ oz. of turmeric beaten very small. Put all these ingredients together in a jar, adding as much vinegar as, when the cabbage, or whatever you intend to piclde, is put into it, the vinegar will rise to the top of the jar; then take cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you choose to pickle, and cut it into small pieces ; throw a good handful of salt over them, and set them in the sun when it is very hot for three days; drain the water from them every day, and fresh salt them again, turning the leaves till they are dry; then put them into the pickle, being particular that they are completely covered with the vinegar; tie the jar up closely, let it stand a fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, and carefully watch it from time to time to fill it up with vinegar, as it will waste verv fast. iNDIAN PICKLE (2). One gallon or vinegar, 1 lb. of garlic, J lb. of long pepper split, i lb. of flour of mustard, 1 lb. of ginger scraped and split, and 2 ozs. of turmeric. When you have prepared the spice, and put it into the jar, pour the vinegar boiling hot over it, and stir it every day for a week; then put in your cabbages, cauliflowers, or whatever you intend to pickle. INDIAN RUBBER. See Caodtchouc. INDIGESTION. {See Appetite and Dys- pepsia). In addition to what has been said under the two titles above referred to, we are indebted for the following to Dr. Wilson Philip, who understood this very common de- fect of the stomach better than most medical practitioners. The first object in the cure of all diseases is to remove the remote causes as far as they still continue ta operate. Among those of indigestion whatever occasions morbid disten- tion of the stomach, or irritates its surface, holds a chief place. It unfortunately happens that thei'e is a continual tendency in this disease to produce those causes. However well, therefore, we may succeed in removing them, it requires constant attention to prevent their recurrence. To some of the other causes of this disease these observations apply with almost equal force, particularly to that inactivity of body, and irritable, anxious, and desponding state of mind which so frequently cause and are caused by indigestion. Diet and exercise. The first part oi the treatment, therefore, which falls under our attention relates to diet and exercise, both of mind and body; and in the slighter and more recent cases a strict attention to these alone, or at most with the assistance of an occasional mild aperient, will often be found sufficient to effect a cure, and the neglect of them will in all cases tend to counteract whatever other means we employ. The objects to be kept in view in regulating the diet in this disease, as appears from what has just been said, are that it shall tend as little as possible to produce either morbid dis- tention or morbid irritation of the surface of the stomach. If the patient eats with great rapidity lie will, during the time required for this combi- nation, put such a quantity of food in the stomach as to occasion some degree of morbid distention, which will be greatly increased by the swelling of the food, in consequence of the secretion of gastric fluid being disturbed by the distention, and the stomach, for reasons above explained, not propelling its contents vnth the usual facility into the intestines Thus it is that the feeling of distention often increases for some time after too full a meal, and at length is frequently accompanied with actual pain. Mastication of food. The food, when we eat too fast, is not only received into the stomach in too great a quantity, but is swal- lowed without being duly masticated and mixed with saliva, and therefore without properly undergoing what may be considered the first process of digestion. It is thus presented to the stomach in a state in which the gastric fluid pervades, and consequently acts upon it with more difficulty. In this way eating too fast is injurious even when the patient abstains from taking too much. For these reasons to eat moderately and slowly is often found of greater consequence than any other rule of diet. The dyspepticIND IND [ 69 ] should carefully attend to the first feeling of satiety. There is a moment when the relish given by the appetite ceases: a single mouthful taken after this oppresses a weak stomach. If he eats slowly, and carefully attends to this feeling, he will never overload the stomach. Morbid distention of the stomach, however, may take place, although there be no error in either of these respects, if the food, being of such a nature that the fluids of a weak stomach are unable to effect the necessary change on it. run into fermentation. It is evident that morbid distention, from whatever cause, cannot exist without at the same time occasioning morbid irritation of the surface of the stomach. The distention itself has this effect; but, as deranged digestion is the consequence of this degree of distention, it can never stop here. All undigested food, however small the quantity, is a cause of irritation. Thus the whole train of symptoms which constitute a fit of indigestion may arise either from too large a quantity of food, particularly if carelessly masticated, or from food of difficult digestion—most readily, of course, from a combi- nation of these causes. It is, therefore, of great consequence, in regulating the treatment of this disease, to ascertain what kinds of food are most easily changed by the gastric fluid. This is sometimes influenced by peculiarities of con- stitution, to which no general rules will apply ; but it is not difficult to perceive what kind of diet is usually best suited to a weak stomach. Tough, acescent, and oily articles of food, with a large proportion of liquid, compose the diet most difiBcult of digestion. It would appear that a feeble gastric fluid, as, indeed, we might d priori suppose, does not admit of being greatly diluted without having its powers much impaired. The diet opposite to this, then, is that which agrees best with dyspeptics. In the ■first stage of indigestion a diet composed pi-etty much of animal food and stale bread is the best. Proper kind of food. If we except beef and veal the flesh of old, in general, is more easy of digestion than that of young animals, on account of the greater quantity of mucilage in the latter. All mucilages are of difficult diges- tion. Even the vegetable mucilages, which in small quantity are generally grateful to the stomach, will oppress it if taken very freely. They are among the things which, in vulgar language, are called sating or phlegmy. What- ever produces the feeling known by these terms disagrees with the stoma-h. The stronger kinds of animal food, of which beef may be considered the strongest, are most apt to excite fever. On this account we often allow those recovering from fever, or otherwise disposed to it, to eat the animal mucilages, or those meats which contain a great portion of them, when even mutton, for example, is for- bidden. Thus animal jellies and young meats have obtained the name of light; but this only relates to their tendency to produce fever, for, as far as digestion is concerned, they are heavier than mutton, and to many stomachs than beef. A similar observation applies to the vegetable, compared with the animal kingdom ; the former are less apt to excite fever, and are therefore called lighter, but they are in general more difficult of digestion. From what it arises that mutton is to most stomachs so much more easy of digestioia than beef it would be difficult to say. Most kinds of game are of easy digestion. Fish, inde- pendently of the heavy sauce with which it is eaten, is for the most part less easily digested than the flesh of land animals; and, as it at the same time affords less nutriment, it is in both respects less proper for the food of dys- peptics, although, from the white kinds being less apt to excite fever, they, like the animal mucilages, have obtained the name of light—a term which so often deceives with respect to what is most easy of digestion, that it is neces- sary to keep this explanation of it in view. The meat most mixed with fat is, other things being alike, most oppressive. It is on this ac- count that pork and the tongues of many animals are of difficult digestion. For the same reason geese and ducks are the most oppressive kinds of poultry. Turkey is more so than fowl, which, next to mutton, is perhaps, upon the whole, the lightest animal food in common use if the skin be avoided. Of the different kinds of game pheasant is least easy of digestion. The lean part of venison is, perhaps, the most digestible article of diet. Hare and pjartridge appear to be as much so as mutton, and all kinds of meat become more digestible by being kept till they are tender. Eggs, as far as relates to a tendency to pro- duce fever, may be regarded as of a middle nature between animal and vegetable food. It is a common opinion that they disagree with bilious people, that is, people labouring under indigestion, in whom the disease has extended to the function of the liver. This opinion, in general, is ill founded, if they are eaten soft- boiled with stale bread. In this state, although offensive to a few stomachs, for the most part they are easy of digestion if the patient con- fines himself to one, or at most two, and are an agreeable change. Few things are of more difficult digestion than new bread. Everything, as may be inferred from what has been said of the process of digestion, which by mastication forms a tenacious paste, is difficult of digestion, beingIND [ 70 1 IND slowly pervaoed by the gastric fluid. Even bread sufficiently old is oppressive if taken alone and in large quantity, as it forms a mass not very readily pervaded. Cookery. On the same principle, food is often rendered more indigestible by processes employed with a view to assist the stomach. All articles composed of strong jellies, and food carefully mashed, are oppressive. The coarser division which our food undergoes in mastica- tion is better suited to assist digestion. Most dyspeptics find that potatoes, for example, finely mashed, although without any admixture, are more difficult of digestion than when properly masticated. During mastication the saliva is freely mixed with them, and a loose mass is formed. When they are mashed they resist admixture with the saliva as well as the gastric fluid. Our food is rendered more easy of digestion by simple roasting or boiling, provided it is not too much done. Beyond this the art of cookery is nothing but that of pleasing the palate at the expense of the stomach. There are a few circumstances under which it is proper to bribe a patient to eat; under all others the refinements of the cook are at variance with the objects of the physician. However imposing the plans of concentrating much nutriment in small compass may at first view appear, we may be well assured that, in such concentration, something is taken away from what nature designed for our food which is useful to us. It is not generally known that the most con- centrated decoction of beef, so far from afford- ing much nutriment, will not, if unmixed with something solid, even allay the calls of hunger. Some time ago a person was attacked with severe pain of the face when even the smallest quantity of any sohd food was put on the stomach. A single mouthful of bread never failed to bring on the attack; and, as he at length refused' all solid food, he was confined for some weeks to a strong decoction of beef; but however strong, and in whatever quantity it was taken, it never satisfied the appetite, and he rapidly emaciated. Fresh vegetables, on account of their tend- ency to ferment, are, on the whole, injurious in indigestion. Some vegetables, however, are less so than others. Peas, beans, cabbage, and waxy potatoes are the worst; mealy potatoes, turnips, and broccoli among the best. They should always be boiled till they are soft. Raw vegetables of all kinds are oppressive; lettuce appears to be the least so. The tough, thready, and membranous parts of vegetables are most difficult of digestion. Fruits are also difficult of digestion, par- ticularly the cold fruits, melons, cucumbers, ^ ». &c.; and next to these the mucilaginous fruits, gooseberiies, pears, &c. Apples and straw- ben'ies are, on the whole, lightest; but we more frequently find peculiarities in the stomach with respect to fruits than other articles of diet. To many stomachs the most acescent fruits, currants, mulberries, &c., are particularly offensive. All preserved fruits are oppressive, the large proportion of sugar adding much to their indigestible quality. To some dyspeptics sugar is so oppressive that they are obliged to abstain even from the small quantity used in tea. Most stomachs bear acids better than f.cescents. Bread is not the worse for being hard, pro- vided it be properly masticated. All hard and tough animal food, particularly if it be salted, which adds to its hardness, is of difficult diges- tion. It seems to be from its hardness that smoked meat is oppressive Hard and tough animal food cannot, by mastication, be reduced to the loose pultaceous form which hard bread assumes. There are tew things m common use so oppressive as butter. It appears to be more so than the fat of meat The fat of mutton is less difficult of digestion than beef, and the fat of venison less so than either. The same may be said of the fat of turtle ; but all kinds of fat are oppressive to a w^ak stomach, and that of which we are inclined to eat the most is generally on this account the worst. We have little ex- perience of oil in this country; but probably olive oil, to a stomach accustomed to it, is less oppressive than butter, and than most kinds of fat. All oily substances are rendered more oppres- sive by being fried as in many of our dishes; yet such is the peculiaiity observed in particular cases, that sometimes a dyspeptic can digest fried bacon pretty well who could not digest mutton, as if the strong stimulus of the former had excited a secretion of gastric fluid, where the milder stimulus of the mutton had failed. It seems to be on a similar principle that the stomach will often digest a little of anything for which the patient greatly longs, and that the appetite sometimes increases after we begin to eat. Cheese is in general still more difficult of digestion than either butter or fat. With their oily nature it combines the hardness and tough- ness of the dry and compressed curd, which is very difficult of minute division. Milk and cream, with their preparations, are generally oppressive in proportion to their richness; but the same proportion of cream mixed with water is more digestible than milk. Much seasoning is injurious, both by the unnatural excitement which it occasions, byL 71 ] IND which it for the time increases the power of the stomach at the erpense of subsequent debility, and by inducing us to eat too much. It seems also, like other strong stimulants, to have a more direct tendency to induce the second stage of the disease. Drink. With respect to fluids, water is evidently intended for the proper dilution of our food. As, on the other hand, we have seen the food may be so watery that it too much dilutes the gastric fluid ; so, on the other, it may be so dry that this fluid cannot easily pervade it, and its necessary motions in the progress of diges- tion are effected with difficulty. But these are not the only, nor do they appear, indeed, to be the principal purpose for which we are induced to drink, which seems generally to be to supply the waste of moisture occasioned by the various secreting surfaces, and particularly by the skin, which is the most extensive. Hence everything which promotes perspiration increases thirst. For a similar reason diarrhoea and the operation of a cathartic have the same effect, and it appears from many facts that there is often a rapid absorption of fluid from the stomach. In health, when the various functions are in due proportion, little liquid is required with the food, the inhalation by one set of vessels nearly compensating for the exhalation by others. Thus it is that the most healthy are little troubled with thirst. In indigestion we have seen it is a frequent symptom. It seems some- times to arise from a general failure of the secretions of the alimentary canal from the mouth downwards, but more frequently from irrita- tion of the stomach, excited by the undigested food; for there is a false thirst as well as a false appetite. As that irritation frequently induces the patient to eat when there are no fluids in the stomach adapted to the office of digestion, it excites him to drink when there is no want of fluidity in the various juices of the body, and when, so far from there being a want of liquid in the stomach, it is surcharged with vitiated fluids. The drink, under such circumstances, only giving relief in proportion as it dilutes the irritating matter, the thirst returns as soon as its irritating properties again increase by its continued fermentation, or perhaps merely as soon as the stomach has become accustomed to the degree of relief which the last draught pro- cured. In this way dyspeptics often drink vast quantities, greatly distending the stomach and increasing their disease. There is some difference of opinion respect- ing the propriety of drinking at meals. It is evident, from what has been said, that the necessity of drinking must be different under different circumstances, but in general it is best shown by the degree of thirst; and there cannot, perhaps, be a more erroneous idea than that which induces some people to drink during their meals for the purpose, as they say, of assisting digestion, when they feel no desire for it. Drinking water can in no other way assist digestion than by affording the proper degree of moisture to the food. If there be no thirst we may be assured that it already possesses this degree of moisture, and that any addition to it will only dilute the gastric fluid, and conse quently enfeeble its solvent power. Eating too fast often causes thirst: the food being swallowed without a due admixture of saliva, the mass formed in the stomach is too dry. It is almost unnecessary to observe that the liquid taken after food must but imperfectly answer the purposes of that mixed with it during mastica- tion. The best rules which a dyspeptic can follow are not to yield to every slight sensation of thirst, and when the sensation is considerable to take but a moderate quantity, and that deliberately; for it is with drinking as with eating, if he swallow with too great rapidity he will take too much. INDIGO is manufactured from a plant called Indigo/era tinctoria. It is not soluble in water, but is dissolved without injury by oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid), and is thus rendered useful in dyeing, staining, and making blue ink. Dis- solved in this acid it is called liquid blue. INFANCY. See Children. INFANT'S PRESERVATIVE, ATKIN- SON'S. Carbonate of magnesia, 6 drachms ; white sugar, S2 ozs.; oil of aniseed, 20 drops ; spirit of sal volatile, drachms ; laudanum, I drachm; syrup of saffron, 1 oz.; and enough caraway water to make a pint. INFECTION. See Contagion- INFLAMMATION. {See Abscess, Brain, Breast, Eye, &c.) By the term " inflammation " is generally understood the state of a part in which it is painful, hotter, redder, and some- what more turgid than it naturally is, which topical symptoms, when present in any con- siderable degree, or when they affect very sen- sible parts, are attended with fever or a general diseased action of the system. According to the late John Hunter the sus- ceptibility of the human body for inflammation is of two kinds; the one original, constituting a part of the animal economy, and beyond the reach of human investigation; the other acquired, from the influence of climate, habits of life, and the state of mind over the constitution. And, as the first kind of susceptibility is innate, it cannot be diminished by art; but the secondIXF L r-z J INF may be lesseued by the mere avoidance of the particulai" causes on which it depends. Many are the opinions that have been enter- tained respecting the nature of inflammation. On these, however, it is not our intention to dwell further than by observing that, when in- flammation is confined to one particular part of the body, without affecting the system generally, it is called phlegmonous or local inflammation ; and when, on the contrary, it produces its effects over the whole system, it is known by the name of general or eiysipelatous inflammation. Phlegmonous or local inflammation. By this species of inflammation is understood an inflammatory circumscribed affection of the skin and cellular membrane, with a swelling rather prominent in the centre, and of a bright red colour, attended with pain and distention, and in which any effusion that happens to take place is usually converted into pus (matter). This kind of inflammation is caused by the application of stimulating substances, such as fire or burning; by external injuries, such as bruises, wounds, overstretching or compressing the parts ; by extraneous bodies, which, either by their form or bulk, produce irritation; by the application of cold; and, in short, by any- thing that determines an increased flow of blood to the part. It comes on with an itching, dryness, redness, increased heat and circulation in the part affected, shortly succeeded by a circumscribed tumour, thi-ough which shooting and throbbing pains extend. When phlegmonous inflammation is consider- able, and runs high, the action of the heart and arteries is increased ; the pulse becomes full, hard, and quick; the skin diy and hot; there is great thirst present, and a feverish tendency comes on. Its common modes of termination are by re- solution, that is, when a natural cure is per- formed by all the symptoms first mentioned giving way, the state and texture of the parts remaining entire; by suppuration, when the serum, or coagulable lymph of the blood, which may have been effused into the adjoining sub- stance, has been converted into pus, or matter, in consequence of which a cavity, termed an abscess, is formed ; by gangrene, which is a mortification not yet actually formed, but coming on, being a state intermediate between the highest point of inflammation and sphacelation, which implies the total loss of life in the part, an absolute derangement of its structure, the abolition of all Its functions, without the possi- bility of its ever being restored to any service in the animal economy. Phlegmonous inflammation may also ter- minate by effusion and adhesion ; that is, with- out ending in suppuration, the matter exuded being fi-equently viscid, often uniting the neigh- bouring parts together in twenty-four or thirty hours. These are the ordinaiy modes of termi- nation of this species of inflammation ; but a fourth has been noticed, which is in schirrus, which implies an indolent knotty hardness of the part, unaccompanied with any discoloration, but attended w^ith shooting pains, the tumour, after a time, ulcerating and becoming cancerous. This termination, however, of inflammation is confined to glandular parts, and is most fre- quently met with in the breasts of females. Symptoms denoting the termination of inflam- mation in suppuration. When the patient is seized with repeated shiverings , when the fever and inflammatory appearance cease suddenly without any perceptible reason ; when, instead of acute pain, a heavy and dull uneasiness is felt in the affected part; when the most ele- vated part of the tumour appears soft and white, while the other pai't of it has its redness increased ; and when a fluctuation can be felt under the finger on pressure, we may infer that a termination in suppuration has ensued. The latter symptom, however, only occurs when the matter is near the surface, although a man possessing a nicety of touch may be able, in many cases, to detect the undulation of matter even when deeply lodged. In most instances of this description the quick disappearance of the inflammatory symptoms, the repeated shiver- ings, and the sense of weight and coldness of the part, are the only obvious indications of matter being formed • but the patient being afterwards attacked with emaciation, night sweats, and other hectic signs, distinctly point out that there is somewhere a collection of hidden matter that cannot be detected by the tact, however exquisite. Symptoms denoting the termination of wflani' mation in gangrene. See Gakgeene. Treatment of phlegmonous or local inflam- mation, &c. At the commencement of a phlegmon, or hoil, the best method is to attempt the cure by procuring, if possible, a resolution of the tumour. For this purpose an early atten- tion should be directed to remove the cause which has given rise to it, as well as to diminish the inflammatoiy disposition, either of the whole system or of the particular part which may be affected. If the inflammation has been caused by some foreign body, such as splinters, pieces of glass, thorns, &c., it ought to be removed as soon as possible, by inducing, if it cannot other- wise be conveniently exti-acted, a healthy sup- puration. But in cases of local inflammation the inflammatory disposition may be moderated, if not entirely obviated, by draining a proper quantity of blood directly from the neighbour-INF [ 73 ] hood of the affected part, either by scarifying it with the point of a lancet, by cupping, or, what is more familiar with domestic practice, by the application of a sufficient quantity of leeches, promoting the flow of blood, after they have fallen off, by means of linen cloths dipped in warm water, and renewing them as fast as they cool. But when inflammation is deeply seated, which may always be known by the pain, it is advisable to have blood drawn from the system generally by opening a vein or an artery, an operation that comes within the province of the surgeon, who will best know how to proportion the quantity necessary to be drawn off by the age and strength of the patient, as well as by the severity of the symptoms. In inflammation of any of the external parts of the body, as well as in those of the head and chest, the frequent use of purgatives will be attended with a good effect; but in inflamma- tion of the bowels active and strong medicines ought to be administered with due caution, those of a mild nature, with emollient and laxative clysters, being preferable. In order to co-operate with the foregoing means in terminating inflammation by resolu- tion, if it be possible to accomplish it in this manner, it will be advisable to use some dis- cutient applications, as remedies of this kind are in themselves, particularly in mild cases, sufficient to disperse commencing inflammation of the phlegmonous description. When there is any viplent contusion or fracture, where a considerable degree of tension prevails, a poultice of rye meal or crumbs of bread, moist- ened with Goulird's water, will be a proper application, which may be renewed two or three times a day until the swelling and inflamma- tion give way; but in a common boil, or where the part is so tender and painful as to be incapable of sustaining the superincumbent weight of a poultice, pieces of soft linen moist- ened in the following sedative lotion may be applied :—Take carbonate of ammonia, 1 oz.; distilled vinegar, 2 pints ; or the vinegar may be added until the effervescence ceases To 4 ozs. of this mixture add the same quantity of alcohol and distilled water, mix them to- gether, and use them as directed by frequently applying them to the inflamed surface ; or what is cheaper, perhaps equally efficacious, and more easily obtained, is the following :—Take muriate of ammonia, 2 drachms; distilled vine- gar, 4 ozs.; camphorated spirit, 2 ozs.; solution of the acetate of lead, ^ drachm. These remedies, it should be understood, are to be applied cold, equally with the poultices previously directed, and they are to be renewed as often as they become stiff, hard, or warm. As the application of cold is considered one of the most powerful means we possess of carry- ing off heat and subduing inflammation, it has been carried so far, in some instances, that pounded ice and snow have been used for the purpose. When these are not to be obtained pieces of soft linen, moistened in a solution of nitre and muriate of ammonia, may be substi- tuted, or even simple cold water. When the inflammatory symptoms run so high as to affect the system it is not unusual for a feverish disposition to prevail. In such cases some febrifuge medicine, as the following, may be taken every three or four hours, viz.:— Take nitrate of potass (nitre), 2 scruples; hot water, 8 ozs.; tartarised antimony, 3 grains ; syrup of violets, 2 drachms; of which take two table-spoonsful for a dose. In the inflammations which attend compound fractures, swelled testicles, &c., the pain is fre- quently so violent as to deprive the patient of his natural rest. When this is the case opiates may be given with advantage and safety, provide 1 sufficient evacuations have been previously ob- tained, and that the costiveness always induced by opium be afterwards obviated by gentle aperient medicine. The dose for an adult may be from fifty to sixty drops of the tincture of opium an hour or two before bedtime, and in a similar proportion for those of a younger age. Instead of the tincture of opium children at the breast may take a small quantity of the syrup of poppies. But if, notwithstanding the preceding means, the tumour should show an evident tendency to suppurate, its progress must be hastened by the application of bread-and-mijk or linseed-meal poultices. Before, however, the poultice be applied, the part affected should be well fo- mented with flannels wrung out of a warm decoction or infusion of emollient herbs, such as camomile flowers, marsh-mallows, poppy heads, &c.; or, when these cannot readily be procured, the part may be fomented with milk and water as hot as it can be borne, or even with warm water alone. When the suppuration js complete, and the tumour is soft to the touch, and the matter lies near the surface, it may be opened with a lancet at its most depending part, and the matter thus suffered to escape, observing to press the whole of it out. The wound afterwards may be dressed with dry lint, and a pledget spread with basilicon laid over all, when pus will form, and granulations of new flesh will fill up the cavity in the wound. When granulation is too languid it may be forwarded by the same means which promote a favourable secretion of pus (matter), viz., warm emollient poultices. When, on the contrary, the granulations are too luxuriant, fopniing irveINF INF [ 74 ] gular masses -whicli project beyond the edges of the wound, it becomes necessary to destroy them by touching them with lunar caustic, or dressing them with the ointment of the red oxide of mercury, or by what is frequently of the same benefit, using a tight bandage. Although it has been customary to treat in- flammation terminating in suppuration in the manner just detailed, still, in the management of abscesses, it has lately been recommended, after the matter is evacuated, to bring the lips of the wound in contact by strips of adhesive plaster, then to apply a compress of two or three folds of soft linen, and to secure it there by means of a roller or bandage of sufficient length, somewhat tightly applied. These dress- ings, at the same time, are to be kept con- stantly moistened with Goulard's lotion. By proceeding in this manner instead of the usual way the external air is effectually excluded; adhe- sion and obliteration of the sac will certainly be obtained ; the health of the patient will not be at all injured either by the quantity or the quality of the subsequent discharge, as the true skin approximates closely; and when the cure is effected there is no waste of cutaneous substance, which frequently renders the parts weaker than they were before ; there will be no unseemly or puckered scars, so often observed on the site of large abscesses ; and lastly, though not least, the curative process which, by the other means, might occupy several weeks, will, by this method, be effected in a few days. The objects, then, which are principally to be attended to in the treatment of phlegmonous or local inflammation are, firstlj', to endeavour to terminate it, by the means pointed out, in resolu- tion ; secondly, where resolution fails, to hasten the suppurative process by promoting the secre- tion of a healthy pus, which is of the consistence of cream, and nearly the same colour, by means of poultices, fomentations, &c.; granulation and cicatrisation, under proper management, will then follow, and a cure be effected. When gangrene is likely to ensue, from weakness occasioned by excessive discharges, the constitution must be supported with wine, bark, opium, and good living. Internal gan- grene, when it once takes place, is always fatal: it is only when it occurs externally that medi- cine can be of service, and even then it often fails. INFLUENZA is a catarrh or cold, but attended with great prostration of strength and some other special symptoms. The symptoms of influenza are in general more severe than those of the common catarrh. " The attack is remarkably sudden, and at first attended with considerable debility. Only a few minutes have often interposed between the feelings of high health and extreme weakness. The head, especially the forehead over the eyes, is particu- larly loaded; all exertion is painful; and a tickling of the nose, with frequent and violent sneezing, often suddenly comes on. A load, rather than pain, in the chest is very troublesome, cough is severe and dry, the tongue parched, and thirst often intense. A sore throat is not a common symptom, yet a bright efflorescence is sometimes observed on it. The pulse is low and frequent, seldom hard, and the skin constantly dry. In the progress of the complaint the breast is sometimes more affected, and pleuritic pains are observed in the young and robust. As the skin becomes softer the tickling acrid mucus from the nose becomes thicker, and the head more free; but considerable debility remains, often for several mouths." Though the fever at first is high, on its subsidence alarming debility and typhoid symptoms frequently come on, and in many cases the patient is suddenly and unexpectedly carried off. In more favour- able circumstances the inflammatory stage quickly passes off; but the cough and other symptoms long continue troublesome, and on any exposure to cold are very ready to return. In an epidemic so widely spreading it is to be expected that it will occur in many young persons disposed to pulmonary consumption, and by its effects on the tubercles in the lungs give rise to suppuration in them. The middle-aged, the strong, and robust are, in general, soonest affected, and suffer most severely. Children at the breast generally escape, nor do any seem to suffer within the first year. All beyond early infancy are indis- criminately attacked. The influenza is very often fatal to elderly people. Though the pain of the side and difficulty of breathing are very urgent, and may seem to call loudly for bleeding, yet there is much doubt about the propriety of this measure in the influenza. In the inflammatory stage in young and vigorous subjects it may be necessary for once; but this stage is soon over, and that of debility com- mences ; and we must take care not to bleed at too late a period, lest we induce a degree of debility from which the patient will not recover. The pains in the side are better relieved by a blister, and the bowels are to be kept easy ; but the system is not to be weakened by strong purgatives. Emetics are often of great service in promoting expectoration and relieving the symptoms; but we must be on our guard that the vomiting does not go too far, and induce dangerous weakness. Ipecacuanha is one of the best and safest emetics we can employ. It may be given in small doses so as to act as an expectorant; and with the same intention gum ammoniacum and squill may be given. The squill pill of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia isINK INF C 75 ] as convenient a form as any other. Emulsions are also of advantage. A most important part of the treatment is keeping the body clothed with flannel, and avoiding all exposure to cold and damp air ; and gentle perspiration is to be kept up by Dover's powder, camphor, and warm liquids. Particular care is to be directed to keeping up the strength. Wine in moderate quantity at first, and afterwards more freely, is to be allowed, and the diet is to be nourishing and easily digestible. The debility that remains after the disease is to be obviated by proper diet, good air, exercise, particularly riding on horseback, and the cold bath.—[Macaulay's Die tionary of Medicine.) INFUSIONS. By infusion is meant a pro- cess which consists in pouring water of any re- quired degree of temperature on such substances as have a loose texture, such as thin barks, leaves, flowers, seeds, &c. The following, then, are infusions, all of which require the water at the boiling heat. Camomile Tea. Camomile flowers, ^ oz. to a pint of water. Emetic while warm, and stomachic when cold. Also used with poppy heads as a fomentation, &c. Compound Infusion of Mint. Dried mint leaves, 2 drachms; boiling water enough to strain 6 ozs. When cold add loaf sugar, 2 drachms; oil of mint, 3 drops. The simple infusion of mint is made by pouring boiling water over any quantity of the leaves without any other addition. Compound Infusion of Obange-peel. Dried orange-peel, 4 ozs.; fresh lemon-peel, ^ oz.; cloves, 2 drachms; to ^ pint of boiling water. Stomachic. Dose, 2 ozs. every two hours. Infusion of Peruvian Bark. Take of the lance-leaved Peruvian bark 1 oz.; barley water, j 1 pint. Pour the water over both, and let them stand for two hours- Dose, ^ oz. to ^ pint. : Tonic. i Infusion of Quassia. A scruple of the I i wood to 1 pint of boiling water. Infusion of Rhubarb. Ehubarb, 1 drachm ; I water, i pint; 4 ozs. of which, with neutral II salts, 2 drachms to ^ oz., may be taken as a : stimulative purgative. 1 Infusion of Roses. Petals of red roses, 6 I drachms; spirit of vitriol, 3 drachms; white i sugar, Hoz.; boiling water, 2^pints; loaf sugar, 1^ oz. Mostly used as a vehicle for Epsom salts, the taste of which it covers very well. It is also gently astringent. Infusion of Senna—Senna Tea. Senna leaves, 1^ oz.; ginger root dried, 1 drachm; boiling water, 1 pint. Purgative. Dose, 4 ozs. to 6 ozs., but generally given as a vehicle for Epsom salts and other medicines. Infusion of Tamarinds with Senna. Tama- rinds, 1 oz.; senna, 2 drachms; coriander seed, i drachm ; brown sugar, 1 oz. ; boiling water, 1 pint. Laxative. Dose, from 2 ozs. to 6 ozs. Linseed Tea. Linseed, 1 oz.; liquorice root, 4 drachms; boiling water, 2 pints. Let it stand for two hours near the fire in a covered vessel, and strain. INK, INDELIBLE (for Marking Linen). Nitrate of silver, 100 grains; distilled water, 1 oz.; gum arable, 2 drachms ; sap - green, 1 scruple. Dissolve. The linen is first to be wetted with the following pounce, dried, rubbed smooth, and then written on by a clean quill or bone pen dipped in the ink. Pounce or mor- dant.—Subcarbonate of soda, ^ oz.; water, 4 ozs. INK, INDELIBLE (not requiring the Pounce). Pound 1 drachm of crystallised ni- trate of silver with 2 drachms of Rochelle salts and 3 or 4 drachms of water, and add sufficient strong ammonia to render the mixture clear; then add archil or sap-green, gum, and water to make up 6 fluid drachms. Pass a hot iron over the writing as soon as it is finished. INK STAINS: To Take out of Mahogany. If recent the stains may be removed by putting a little salt of lemons on the spot, and rubbing it off with a cloth wetted in hot water. Should the stains be of long standing touch the part with a feather dipped in a weak solution of vitriol, or a few drops of the oil of vitriol in a tea-spoonful of water, and immediately the stain disappears rub the vitriol off with a rag dipped in cold water. If not taken off directly the vitriol will leave a white mark not easily effaced. Should not the stain disappear at once the operation must be repeated. To take ink or iron stains out of marble. To remove ink stains mix some unslaked lime, very finely powdered, with strong soap lees. Make the mixture pretty thick, lay it On the marble with a painting brush, and let it remain on for eight or ten weeks; then wash off the mixture ; and, having a strong thick lather of soft soap boiled in soft water, dip a brush into the lather, and then into the powder of unslaked lime, and scour the marble well; then clean off the soap and lime, and finish with a smooth hand-brush, rubbing briskly till a beautiful polish is pro- duced. To remove iron stains take an equal quantity of fresh spirits of vitriol and lemon | juice mixed together in a bottle. Shake the mixture well, wet the spots with it, and in a few minutes rub with a piece of soft linen till they disappear. The polish may easily be restored by the use of a piece of felt, with some powder of putty or of tripoli mixed with water. To remove ink stains from white linen or calico directly drop plentifully on them, while wet, the tallow from a lighted candle, and let it remain on the linen a few days beforeINK INK C 76 ] it is washed. For ink spots that have got dry, having mixed a little salt with some lemon juice in a glazed pipkin, heat the mixture gently over a clear fire, and then dip the stained part of the linen several times into this mixture. Before the linen is quite dry wash it in a hot lather of soap and water. The washing should be repeated two or three times till the spots disappear. What is called the essential salt of lemons, sold by chemists and perfumers, would answer the same purpose. And there is another method, slightly varied, that answers extremely well. Cut a lemon in half, and press the spotted part of the linen close over one half of the lemon till the juice penetrates through ; then place a hot iron on the linen, and the spots will soon entirely disappear. For iron moulds wet the stains with water, then lay the linen on a boiling hot water plate, and pat a little of the essential salt of lemons on it. As the part becomes dry wet it again, taking care that the water in the plate is kept boiling hot. As soon as the spots are removed wash the linen with plenty of clean water, to prevent any injury from the acid. INK, SYMPATHETIC OR SECRET. The solutions should be so nearly colourless as that the writing is not seen till the agent is applied to render it visible. 1. Digest 1 oz. of zaffre, or oxide of cobalt, at a gentle heat, with 4 ozs. of nitro-muriatic acid till no more is dissolved; then add 1 oz. of common salt and 16 ozs. of water. If this be written with, and the paper held to the fire, the writing becomes green, unless the cobalt should be quite pure, in which case it will be blue. The addition of a little nitrate of iron will impart the property of becoming green. It is used in chemical landscapes for the Ibliage. 2. Put into a phial distilled water, | oz. , bromide of potassium, 1 drachm ; and pure sul- phate of copper, 1 drachm. The solution is nearly colourless, but becomes brown when heated. 3. Boll oxide of cobalt in acetic acid. If a little common salt be added the writing becomes green when heated; but with nitre it becomes a pale rose colour. 4. A solution of acetate of lead- Colourless, but becomes brown when exposed to sulphuretted hydrogen gas. 5. A weak solution ot sulphate of copper. The writing becomes blue when exposed to the vapour of ammonia. 6. A solution of sulphate—or, preferably, per- sulphate—of iron. It becomes black when washed with ipfusion of galls; blue by prussiate cf potash. This constitutes colouiless ink, which becomes visible when written with on paper containing galls, or tannin, or prussiate of potash. 7. Mix equal quantities of sulphate of copper and sal ammoniac, and dissolve in water. It becomes yellow when heated. 8. A weak solution of nitrate of mercury. Becomes black by heat. 9. Rice water, or any solution of starch It becomes blue when washed over with an alco- holic solution of iodine. 10. Lemon juice, milk, juice of onions, and. some other liquids become black when the writing is held to the fire. INK, WRITING (Black). Take of bruised galls 3 ozs.; sulphate of iron (green copperas), logwood shavings, and gum arable, of each I oz.; vinegar, 1 quart. Dissolve the gum iu the vinegar, and then put it with the other in- gredients into a bottle, agitating them occa- sionally during twelve or fourteen days; then allow the coarser parts to settle, and pour off the ink for use. The colour of common writing ink is apt to fade. When illegible it may often be restored by washing the writing with vinegar, and after- wards with infusion of galls. Acids also destroy its colouring matter. Those inks which resist their action contain some other colouring principle, usually finely powdered charcoal. Common writing ink may, therefore, be much improved by dissolving in every quart of it 1 oz. of Indian ink. Ink Powder is made by powdering the ingre- dients above described, and mixing them in the same proportions. When used it merely requires mixing with A-inegar. Blue Ink. First levigate 1 oz. of the finest indigo in a glass mortar; then pour very gra- dually on the powder 4 ozs. of the most con- centrated vitriolic acid; and on every addition it should be stirred with a glass pestle, so that the whole mixture will require several hom's. This precaution is indispensable, as otherwise the heat generated on adding the vitriolic acid would impair the brightness of the colour. After standing from twelve to eighteen houi's in a moderately warm place this dense mixture must be diluted with water, not by adding this fluid to the composition, but by introducing small portions of the latter into a vessel con- taining such a quantity of water as may be re- quisite to produce a lighter or daiker shade. In general from thirty to forty parts of water will be necessary to reduce it to a fine blue liquid. This diluted solution of indigo is, however, m too caustic a state to be employed either as a blue dye or as writing ink. Hence the vitriolic acid ought to be divested of its corrosive quahty by means of such a substance as may form a chemical combination with the acid, and notINS INV [ 77 j precipitate the indigo. If the solution be in- tended merely for colouring or writing on paper it will be sufficient to add pulverised chalk in small portions till it ceases to effervesce, because a large quantity of this powder at a time would cause the liquid to rise above the brim of the vessel. It is easy to ascertain the point of saturation; for, when the powder of chalk scattered on the surface no longer produces any babbles, the solution should be suffered to stand for twenty-four hours, then filtered through blot- ting paper, and preserved in bottles. If, how- ever, this preparation be designed for dyeing silk, such as stockings, &c., it will be preferable to neutralise the vitriolic acid by the addition of aluminous earth instead of chalk, as the former renders the colour more durable; and, if the solu- tion is to be used for painting on silk, it ought to be previously mixed with gum tragacanth. Geeen Ink. Take a glass retort which will contain about a quart, pour into it a pint of dis- tilled vinegar, place it over a sand heat, and when it begins to boil introduce into the liquid small portions of powdered verdigris till a saturated solution is obtained, or till no more colouring matter can be dissolved. In order to keep the latter suspended, and prevent the foi-mation of crystals, it will be requisite to add about the sixth part of gum arabic in proportion to the verdigris. Red Ink. Boil 2 ozs. of Brazil wood in a pint of water for a quarter of an hour, adding a requisite quantity of gum, and about half as much alum. Or, take 8 ozs. of Brazil wood, 4 ozs. of roche alum, and 1 quart of distilled vinegar ; boil them for a quarter of an hour or more, strain, and add 2 ozs. of gum arabic. Yellow Ink. Boil 8 ozs. of French berries with i oz. of alum in a quart of water, strain, and then dissolve in the liquid 1 oz of gum arabic. INSANITY, MORAL. See Idiotcy INTESTINES. See Bowels. INVALIDS. {See Nurse.) We shall con- fine our notes here to the diet of an invalid. Quality of food. Animal food is more digesti- ble, but at the same time more stimulant and less flatulent, than vegetable diet A dyspeptic invalid may be restricted to meat and bread with advantage until his digestive powers have gained EufBcient energy to enable him to convert vege- table matter into healthy chyle, after which a due mixture of both species of aliment will be essential. The wholesome quality of food depends as much, or even more, upon its mechanical con- dition than upon its chemical composition ; and, as this is influenced by various circumstances under our own control, we may render food naturally indigestible of easy digestion. The digestibility of any species of aliment, as well as its nutritive qualities, is influenced by the different modes of cookery. The addition of condiments is also capable of producing the same effects. Quantity of food. This must in every case be regulated by the feelings of the patient: let him eat slowly, masticate thoroughly, and on tha first feeling of satiety dismiss his plate, and he will not have occasion for any artificial standard of weight and measure. But he must, in such a case, restrict himself to one dish : an indul- gence in variety provokes an artificial appetite, which he may not readily distinguish from that natural feeling which is the only true indication. Periods best adapted for meals. In every situation of life we too frequently pass un- heeded objects of real importance, in an over- anxiety to pursue others of more apparent, but of far less intrinsic value. So is it with the dys- peptic invalid in search of health. " What shall I eat ? Is this or that species of food digestible ? " are the constant queries which he addresses to his physician. He will religiously abstain from whatever medical opinion, or even popular prejudice, has decried as unwholesome, and yet the period at which he takes his meal is a matter of comparative indifference with him. Although he will refuse to taste a dish that contains an atom of vinegar with as much per- tinacity as if it held arsenic in solution, he will allow the most trifling engagement to postpone his dinner for an hour. " So important and serious an error," says Dr. Paris, " do I consider such irregularities, that I have fi'equently said to a patient labouring under indigestion, ' I will waive all my objections to the quality and quan- tity of your food if I were sure that such a sacrifice of opinion would insure regularity in the periods of your meals.' " The principal solid meal should be taken m the middle of the day, four hours after which a liquid meal should be indulged in. The diges- tion of one meal should be always completed before fresh labour is imposed upon the stomach. The intervals at which food is to be taken must be regulated by the digestive powers of the indi- vidual, and the rapidity with which they are per- formed. The patient should never take his meal in a state of fatigue. Exercise should always be taken three or four hours after dinner. INVALIDS, COOKERY FOR. It cannot fail to strike every one who has lived at all amongst the lower classes that their mode of attendance on those who are ill is very deficient, both in comfort and sense. How often a person burning with fever is seen shut up in a close room, care apparently being taken that not a breath of fresh air creeps in; and women just recovering from a confinement are given gruelINV INV [ 7? 3 highly flavoured with gin or brandy. How often is the sick man left parched with thirst, with nothing by him to " sip ! " Decidedly it is not want of feeling on the part of the attendants : it is either that they do not know how to prepare the necessary things, or it is want of thought. That want of thought, how much misery does it occasion ! It is the cause of much vice, many quarrels, many hitter feelings ; in fact, it is the fruitful source of most of the evils in this life. How carefully, then, ought each and all of us to cultivate a habit of tlihiking before we either speak or act. Such a habit would be productive of great benefit both to ourselves and others. Thoughtlessness is not felt anywhere so keenly as in the sick chamber. Illness, generally speaking, creates an irritability of temper, and to be waited on by a thoughtless attendant materially increases it. What can be more worrying to an invalid than to find, if obliged to be left alone, the medicine not prepared for him, the toast and water or barley water not placed by his bedside ? Another cause of an- noyance is a person coming into the room ten times when once would have sufficed—all occa- sioned by want of thought. These may appear trifles " light as air" to many of our readers ; but wait a little till you are laid on your sick bed, and then say if they are "nothings." It has been truly said that " the same spectacles do not suit those in health and those in sickness; " and now let us see if we cannot recommend you some little niceties which will be agreeable to the invalid. Barley Water. Wash \ lb. of pearl barley, put it into a saucepan with a pint of water, let it boil for ten minutes, strain it, and throw the water away. Put the barley again into the sauce- pan with four pints of fresh water, boil it till it has wasted to three pints, and then strain it for use. If more water be put on to the remains of the barley it will make a pleasant beverage by boil- ing with it the peel of a lemon, and adding, after straining it, the juice. It will not, oi course, be so nourishing as the first three pints. A VERY GOOD Beverage foe a Cough is made with a quart of barley water, to which are added 2 ozs. of figs sliced, 3 ozs. of raisins, and ^oz. of liquorice root. The figs, raisins, and liquorice root must be boiled in a pint of water, and then added to the quart of barley water. When oranges are cheap a very refreshing draught can be made with them at a small cost. Orangeade. Pare thinly six sweet and two Seville oranges, put the rinds into a basin, and pour over them two quarts of boiling water; let it stand all night; take the rinds out, and add to the water the juice of the oranges and that of two lemons. Put 1 lb. of sugar into a saucepan. with sufficient water to make a syrup, and when it boils add the orange water. Boil the whole together for ten minutes, and when it is cold you will find it most refreshing. The peels of the oranges will answer, if boiled, for orange marmalade. A Saline Draught is a very simple and very valuable drink in many cases. The simplest way of making it is this :—Put a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda into half a tumbler of water, with two lumps of sugar. Into a wine-glass of water put a small tea-spoonful of tartaric acid, and when dissolved pour the acid on to the soda, and drink whilst in a state of effervescence. Some people prefer a table-spoonful of lemon juice instead of the tartaric acid. Citric acid may also be used, but it is more expensive. Imperial is another very cooling draught, but, being lowering, it should not be drunk habitually without medical advice. Put 2 ozs. of cream of tartar into a basin, with the juice and rinds of three lemons; pour over it six quarts of boiling water, sweeten it to your taste, and keep it closely covered (which can be done by placing a plate over the basin) until it is cold. Toast and Water, though apparently such a simple thing, is very seldom well made. The bread from which it is made should not be burnt, but toasted thoi'oughly until it is hard and brown ; then put it into a jug, and on it pour boiling water; cover it till it is cold; then take out the toast, and the water is ready to be drunk. Any kind of fruit, sliced, sweetened, and boiling water poured on it, makes a pleasant change. If apples are used they are greatly improved by first baking them for a quarter of an hour, and then pouring the water on them. Herb Tea. There is a refreshing draught which is very useful to the poor, who usually cultivate, or can easily procure, various herbs. It may be made entirely of them, and is often taken hot the last thing at night. Put a little sage, three sprigs of balm, and a little wood- sorrel into a jug; on it pour three pints of boiling water, sweeten, and cover it closely. If to be drunk hot it must stand on the hob for half an hour, in order to draw out the virtues of the herbs. Milk Drinks. If milk is easily procured many agreeable and nourishing draughts can be made. A very favourite one with some people is this :—Put a pint of milk in the oven, and into it put \ lb. of fresh suet; when it has melted strain, and drink it warm. This mixture is veiy softening to the chest, and has the advantage of being easily made. For those who are weak, and who do not like the suet with the milk, an egg well beaten may be substituted in this manner :—Warm half a pint of milk, take it off the fire, and mix withC 79 ] IPE 10 D it an egg very well beaten, a little sugar, and grated nutmeg. Do not let it boil after tbe egg is put in, as it is apt to curdle, and it will not be so light or so easy of digestion. It cannot be too often impressed on tbe minds of cooks that cleanliness is nearly the first thing necessary in order to become even a tolerable one; but in sickness it is quite an essential. What can be more disagreeable, to a person whose appetite is nearly gone, than to taste in the gruel or the barley water something which ought not to be thei'e—some flavour of onion or gravy ? Yet this is often the case, and merely because a saucepan is not kept on pur- pose for those delicate things. If the same saucepan is used for all purposes it can hardly fail, even if well scoured, to impart a most dis- agreeable taste to anything which is made with milk. We need not tell those who attend to the 'wants of the poor the great comfort and benefit they derive from a basin of gruel being given them when ill, and a little broth or jelly when recovering from an illness; but how many are there who know nothing practically of our Saviour's remark, that "it is more blessed to give than to receive ;" who, perhaps, think they have done all that is required of them if they subscribe to some charity, and add their names to the already well-filled list. That is all very well, but still something more ought to be done. The sick person pining for a refreshing draught or a little gruel, it may be within a stone's throw of your dwelling, is surely a proper object for your care. The sick child recovering from a long fever, craving for nourishing food, is certainly a proper channel in which to direct I your charity. "Love of this world," indolence, j want of thought, may have hitherto blinded i your eyes to the wants of others; but once try 1 the experiment—" Feed the hungry, clothe the naked, visit the sick "—and we are sure you will i from that time exert yourself in their behalf, and you will not forget the injunction, " To do good, and to distribute, forget not." IODINE exists in sea water and in marine plants. The air on the seacoast contains minute portions of it; indeed, it gives to that air the peculiar smell by which it is usually characterised. ! Iodine, though only obtained in an isolated state of late years, has been long employed as the efficient principle of other preparations and therapeutic agents, namely, burnt sponge and certain mineral waters. It is only since it has been procured as a distinct principle that its i action has been ascertained with precision. In 1 the present day it is administered rather in I some artificial compound than as pure iodine, owing to its very sparing solubility in water. Iodine in substance, however, when applied to the skin, stains it brown; and even the very small quantity which can be dissolved in water is sufficient to cause rubefaction, and in the form of baths produces decided action both on the surface of the body and the general system. When applied to ulcers or any breach of the skin it occasions heat, and a sense of pricking and tingling; it is also absorbed, and may be discovered in the blood and the secretions of the patient. Taken internally, even in small doses, it causes a sense of heat in the mouth and throat. If much diluted by the vehicle in which it is given, and the stomach be healthy, it appears to do little more than increase the digestive powers; but in larger and stronger doses it creates great heat in the region of the stomach, which becomes sensible to pressure, with a feeling of weight, heartburn, and often nausea and vomiting. In very large doses it acts as an irritant poison. It is not merely an irritant poison when taken in a large dose, but is a slow or accumulative poison even when taken in medicinal doses for a length of time. It has been generally represented as causing emaciation even to a frightful extent; but though this has occurred in some instances, it does not seem to be frequent, if we except the absorption of certain glands, especially the mammae of females. The diseases in which it has been found use- ful are glandular swellings, especially broncho- cele, or goitre, which rarely resists its action; in some strumous diseases, in chronic rheuma- tism, and also as an antidote against poisoning with strychnia, brucia, and veratria; but its claims to confidence are not clear in case of such formidable poisons. IPECACUANHA. This emetic is the pow- dered root of a Brazilian plant, called Cephaelis ipecacuanha. Ipecacuanha is one of the safest and mildest emetics, and possesses this peculiar advantage, that it passes off by the skin or bowels if it should not operate by vomiting. In dysenteries it is almost a specific, and often contributes to perform a cure in a very few days. When given in powder its action is more certain than in any other form : hence it is now employed in many diseases where full vomiting is indicated, for which purpose from 15 to 25 grains are pre- scribed for a full dose. It is also beneficially administered in very small doses, so as neither to operate by vomiting, purging, nor sweating; for instance, a third or fourth part of a grain to be taken every half-hour or oftener, with a view to velicate the intestinal canal, and by its nau- seating effect to give a different tone to the action of the stomach and bowels. Thus it is recommended to be given in the paroxysm of[ 80 1 IRO IRI spasmodic asthma, as well as in obstinate coughs ; and a dose of 3 or 4 grains every morn- ing in chronical asthmatic cases. If the root is reduced to powder the dose for a grown up person is from 15 to 20 grains ; for a child above a few weeks old, from 6 to 12 grains according to the age. White wine extracts the emetic properties of ipecacuanha ; and the ipe- cacuanha wine is a very good form of adminis- tering it, provided there be no great degree of fever present. To a child a tea-spoonful of the wine may be given every ten minutes till it operates. The root of ipecacuanha was at one time a very favourite remedy in dysentery, and it still may be used as a powerful auxiliary to other means. Like other emetics, or perhaps with virtues superior in this respect, it proves an excellent expectorant, and may be taken for this purpose in doses of 3 or 4 grains three times a day, or made up into lozenges with some sweet or aromatic substance. The ipe- cacuanha lozenges commonly sold contain half a grain each. In nauseating doses it is very- useful in hemorrhages from the lungs and uterus. Combined with opium it forms the celebrated Dover's powder. IRISH CAKES. Take 1 lb. of butter beaten to a cream, f lb. of sugar sifted and dried, nine eggs (the yolks and whites beaten separately), Jib. of almonds blanched and sliced, lb. of currants picked and dried, and the same weight of flour, also dried. When the butter has been worked with the hand to a cream sift in the sugar, which should be quite hot. When mixed pour in the yolks of eggs, and then add the whites ; work it half an hour, then add the flour by degrees, and when thoroughly mixed put in a very small tea-cupful of brandy. The currants and almonds, with ^ lb. of citron peel, should be added just before the cakes are placed in the oven, which should be hot. The cake should be beaten an hour. The hand must be kept moving in the same way, and not taken out. IRISH MOSS. See Carageen Moss. IRISH MOSS BLANC-MANGER. Wash in three waters \ oz. of Carageen moss, drain, and put it into two quarts of new milk; let it boil for a few minutes, strain it into a pitcher, wet the moulds, and pour it in while hot. Let the blanc-manger stand till it becomes thick, when it may be eaten with sugar and cream, seasoned with peach or rose water, or with a lemon rolled in sugar. Some prefer seasoning the blanc-manger before putting it in the moulds. It will keep in a cool place two days, and is better to be made the day before it is eaten. IRISH PUFFS. Add to five well-beaten yolks and two whites of eggs a large spoonful of flour, not quite 1 oz. of melted butter, and half a tea-spoonful of salt; beat all well for ten minutes, and add half a pint of cream. Bake in buttered tea-cups, turn them out, and serve them with a sweet sauce. IRISH STEW. Take 2 lbs. ot neclc or loin chops, peel and slice 2 lbs. of potatoes, and ^ lb. of large onions. First put into a stewpan a layer of potatoes, then chops and onions, and so on till full, sprinkling pepper and salt upon each layer; then pour in cold water or broth, cover the pan, and stew over a veiy slow fire for an hour and a half, or until the meat bo done. Before serving add two table-spoonsful of mushroom catsup. IRON. After the ore is dug out of the earth it is crushed in a mill and washed in a stream, in order to separate the grosser particles of earth. Next it is melted in furnaces heated with coke, charcoal, peat, or turf, near the bottom of which, by means of a tap-hole, the liquid metal is discharged into furrows made in a bed of sand. The larger mass, which settles in the main furrow, is called by the work- men a sow, and the smaller ones ings of iron. Stoves, grates, &c., are formed by casting ladles- ful of the rough metal into proper moulds made of sifted sand. In this state it is called caH iron; but if cooled too hastily it becomes brittle, and is apt to crack like unannealed glass : it is not malleable, and is so hard as to resist the file. With a view to improve it the raw iron is now melted down a second time in another furnace, where a strong blast of air is impelled on the surface of the metal, in conse- quence of which its fusion is considerably facili- tated, and the iron concretes into a mass called a loop, that is conveyed beneath a large hammer raised by the motion of a water-wheel. The metal is there beaten into a thick square form, again heated so as nearly to melt it, and then forged. By repeating this process the iron is rendered perfectly malleable, and at length formed into bars for sale. Besides the cast and forged iron there is an intermediate state, in which the metal is soft and tough. This is called steel, and is usually made from the best forged iron by cementation with certain inflammable matters. Besides its utility as a material for imple- ments of agriculture, &c., iron is eminently adapted to the purpose of dyeing cotton. The oxide of iron has so great an affinity for cotton thread that, if the latter be immersed in a satu- rated solution of this metal in any acid, it as- sumes instantaneously a chamois yellow colour, which becomes more or less deep according to the strength of the liquors, and the length of time it has been exposed to the air. The colour thus communicated is fixed ; resists both air and water, and also alkaline leys; nor is its durability in the least affected by washing it[ 81 ] IRO IRO with soap, which, on the contrary, imparts to it additional brightness. The oxide of iron, if precipitated on any stuff, easily unites with the fawn colour obtained from vegetable astringents; and, by varying the strength of the soda, soap, or other mordants employed in dyeing, an in- finity of shades may be produced. These colours may likewise be rendered brown, as they are susceptible of a variety of shades from a bright grey to a deep black tint, by simply passing the cotton impregnated with astringent vege- table matter through a solution of iron. When long exposed to the air iron is very liable to become rusty, especially inmoist situa- tions : hence an effectual method of preserving it bright still remains to be discovered. Various I compositions have, indeed, been contrived for this purpose; but none appears to be more serviceable than common oil, though its use is on many occasions both troublesome and dis- agreeable. To obviate these inconveniences, it has been recommended to heat the iron to such a degree that it cannot be touched without burning the hand, then to varnish it with new white wax, and expose it to the fire till the wax is completely imbibed by the metal, which should next be rubbed over with a piece of serge. According to others this metal may be perfectly secured from the effects of rust by plunging it while red-hot into linseed oil, which is suffered to drop off till it becomes dry, and then wiping the iron with a clean cloth. Thus a black crust or varnish is formed, which ren- ders it impei-vious to moisture. Again, others pour melted lead into the oil before it is ap- plied to the heated iron; but both preparations require a considerable degree of skill and ore- caution. In medicine iron is chiefly employed as a tonic and corroborant. When properly prepared it is given with advantage in diseases proceeding from laxity and inactivity of the digestive organs, such as indigestion, flatulency, colic, &c. It is also of considerable service in hypochondriacal affections, intermittent, tertian, quartan, and other fevers; but it seldom agrees with either bilious or plethoric constitutions, and is, like all active drugs, much abused by quacks and other pretenders, who should not be suffered to trifle 'vith the health and lives of the multitude. IRON MOULDS are spots on linen occa- sioned by its exposure to damp situations, and also by ink accidentally dropped on the cloth. They may be removed by moistening the stained part, sprinkling it with a small quantity of the essential salt of lemons, after which the linen is to be rubbed over a pewter plate, and the blot washed out with warm water. But a less expensive method consists in wetting the spot, applying to it a few drops of spirit of VOL. It. salt (muriatic acid), or lemon juice ; then rubbing it for a minute or longer between the fingers, while it is carefully held over a hot smoothing iron, or a basin filled with boiling water, the steam of which greatly facilitates the removal of the stains. See Ink Stains. IRONING. For this process in the laundiy the following are the necessary directions :— The ironing blanket should be of a very thick sort, called swan-skin. Spread a coarse cloth upon the ironing board to lie under it, which makes the surface of the blanket softer, and more yielding and elastic to the iron. The old method of heating irons is to place them on a hanger in front of the fire, but an ironing stove is much to be preferred: it is not very ex- pensive, it is very economical in the consump- tion of fuel, and it keeps the irons much cleaner than the old method. To clean hot irons before using them, first do so upon a piece of sand paper; then upon a piece of cloth or old bed tick kept for the purpose, and before putting them on the linen wipe their faces carefully, and ascertain that they are quite clean ; but with an ironing stove they require hardly any trouble to make clean. Then to be sure that they are not too hot, that they will not scorch or smear the clothes, take up something coarse, and iron it before meddling with the fine things. The heat of the iron, always taking care that it is not too hot, must be in proportion to the thick- ness of the substance to be ironed. The box iron is very little used now to what it was formerly, as for many small fine things, such as frills and laces, the Italian iron answers much better. The slipper is made to serve as an iron case or receptacle for the common flat iron, which slips into it like a foot into a slipper, and is secured by a very simple spring. The lower sur- face is smooth and highly polished, and as it is never put to the fire it is always perfectly clean. It saves much time and trouble. The common iron, having been duly heated, and the dust wiped off, is slipped into it, and secured by the spring, and then it is freely used without the risk of scorching, smearing, or in any way soiling the linen. For the use of a moderate-sized family there are required only one, or two at the most, of different sizes, unless two or three people are employed in ironing at the same time; and, as the old flat irons are used with the slippers, no additional expense is incurred. The best and most convenient way to iron shirt fronts is upon a board about twelve inches long and eight inches wide, covered with fine flannel. After the back of the shirt has been ironed place the board between the back and front. The skirts of dresses may be ironed in a similar manner to shirt fronts, using a board of the same length as the skirt, twelve inches wide at one QC 83 3 IRO ISI end, and twenty-six inches wide at the other. Having covered the board with a blanket or suitable piece of flannel, let it rest upon a thin block of wood at each end, to prevent it from creasing the skirt beneath. IRONS, FIRE. See Anti-Atteition, Baes (Bright), and Ieon. ISINGLASS. The best is made in Russia from the air bladders of various species of sturgeon, but it is prepared from other fish. The sinewy parts of the fish are boiled in water till they are dissolved; then the viscid liquor is strained and suffered to cool. When cold the fat is carefully taken off, the liquor again boiled to a due consistence, then cut in pieces, and rolled into a semicircular twist, in which state they are suspended on a string till carefully dried. The sounds or air bladders of fresh-water fish, in general, are the most transparent, flexible, and delicate substances, and consequently furnish the finest isinglass; but the intestines and peritoneum of the fish constitute inferior sorts of this article, denominated hook and ordtaary staple. Isinglass is most successfully prepared in the summer, as frost changes its colour, deprives it of weight, and impairs its gelatinous principle; but the forms into which it is twisted by the Russians are useless, and frequently injurious to its native qualities. These peculiar shapes were probably adopted with a view to conceal the real substance, and thus to preserve the monopoly. The Newfoundland and Iceland fishermen split open the fish as soon as they are taken, and throw the backbones, with the sounds annexed, into a heap; but before putrefaction commences the sounds are cut out, washed, and salted for use. In performing this opera- tion the best, namely, the intercostal parts, are left behind. The Iceland fishermen are so sensible of this circumstance that they beat the bone upon a block with a thick stick till the •pockets come out easily, so that they preserve the sound entire. This isinglass is dried upon nets in the open air, and resolves into fining, like that of Russian manufacture, in subacid liquors, such as stale beer, cyder, old hock, &c.; ■while in equal quantities it produces similar effects upon turbid liquors, except that it falls sooner and closer to the bottom of the vessel, though foreign isinglass, on account of the greater tenacity of its native mucilage, retains the power of fining preferably in warm weather. The finest and most transparent sorts of isinglass are consumed in making mock pearls, and in stiffening linens, silks, gauzes, &c. It may likewise be reduced to a jelly, as it dis- Bolves in alkaline liquors; and even cold lime water converts it into a pulpy mass. Although such preparation would be extremely detri- mental to health in fining liquors, yet it may be usefully employed for another purpose; because, on mixing this jelly with compositions of plaster, lime, &c., for ornamenting walls exposed to vicissitudes of weather, it forms a firm and durable cement, and if worked up with common mortar it soon acquires the harshness of bricks. With this intention, how- ever, it is more conveniently prepared by dis- solving it in cold water, acidulated with oil of vitriol: thus the acid quits the jelly, and forms with the lime a selenitic mass; while the jelly, being deprived of part of its moisttire, speedily dries, and hardens into a fii'm body, whence its superior strength and durability may be easily explained. In a medicinal view isinglass is but seldom employed, though it may with advantage be used in violent bleedings from the nose, by introducing into the nostril a pessaiy made of soft linen, and dipped in a solution of this glue, prepared in equal parts of spirit of wine and water. Isinglass also forms the principal in- gredient in sticking-plaster, and when boiled in fresh milk to the consistence of a strong jelly it affords a very nourishing food to invalids, though it should be eaten with precaution by those who possess a weak stomach or digest slowly, as it has a great tendency to turn rancid. ISINGLASS: To Claeify (1). Take about 3 ozs. of the best and clearest sort of isinglass for a quart mould of jelly, and put it into a stewpan, with just sufficient cold water to completely cover it; set it on the stove vdth a spoon in it to stir it at times, and skim it when any scum rises ; let it boil very gently and well reduce, only be careful not to reduce it too much, as it will bum, and, of course, get a bad taste, and spoil your jelly. When you think it is sufficiently reduced, and looks clear, pass it through a sieve into a basin ready for "use. ISINGLASS: To Claeify (2). Take 1;^ oz. of the best isinglass, cut it into small pieces, and wash them several times in warm water. Put the isinglass into a preserving pan with five glasses of filtered water, set it on the fire, and as soon as it bofls place it on the side of the stove, so as to keep up the boiling. Take off the scum directly it rises, and when reduced to three quarters strain it through a cloth into a basin for use. ISINGLASS FLUMMERY. Put 6 ozs. of isinglass into a quart of new milk, sweeten it, set it over the fire, and keep it stirring one way all the time till it has jellied; pour it into basins, and when cold turn it out. You may put in orange-flower water if you like.ITA ISI E 83 ] ' ISINGLASS, GENUINE: To Know. It i8 frequently adulterated with shreds of the dried bladders of horses and other animal mem- branes, which may be detected by their insolu- bility in boiling water, whereas true isinglass leaves therein no filaments whatever. The genuine sort is also perfectly transparent, and is of a triangular form, while the fraudulent is round and flat. ISINGLASS JELLY. Boil 1 oz. of the shavings of isinglass with forty corns of Jamaica pepper and a crust of bread in a quart of water. Simmer till reduced to one-half, and strain it off. It may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, or soup. ISSUE. Thisisan ulcer artificially formed for the purpose of maintaining a constant purulent discharge from the body. It is usually made by placing one or more beads or peas on an incision through the integuments in one of the limbs, or in the neighbourhood of a diseased part, and there retaining them by adhesive plaster, so as to prevent the wound from healing, and keep it in a constant state of suppuration. Other issues are made by rubbing caustic potash, or potash and quicklime, on a part of the skin till it is destroyed and sloughs, and by keeping open the ulcer thus formed either with peas or very stimulant dressings. Setons are another form of issue, made by passing a broad flat needle beneath a portion of the skin, and retaining in the passage thus formed either a skein of silk or a flat band of caoutchouc. The use of issues for the cure of constitu- tional diseases, under the idea that they remove noxious principles from the blood, is now entirely abandoned; but they are sometimes had recourse to in order to restore an habitual discharge which has been checked by the cure of any chi'onic local disease, and the cessation of which has seemed to give rise to congestion of the head or of any internal organ. But the prin- cipal value of issues is as counter-irritants, by establishing a disease which is of itself unim- portant in the neighbourhood of one which, by its situation, is more serious; and hence they are amongst the most important means in the cure of chronic inflammations of many internal organs, and especially of those of the joints and spine. The way to make the pea issue is to pinch up a portion of the skin, and to cut it through of such a size as to hold one or two peas, accord- ing to the extent of the issue we want; the peas are then introduced into the wound, and are covered up with adhesive plaster for three or four days, by which time the discharge of matter will have fairly begun. The peas are then taken out, fresh ones are put in, and this is continued every day while we wish to keep the issue open. To make an issue by a seton introduce a skein of silk into a broad needle, and push the needle through the skin, bringing it out at a greater or less distance from the place of its insertion, according to the quantity of matter wished to be daily discharged. When the needle is pushed through the skin fasten the silk, so as to allow a fresh portion to be applied to the internal surface of the wound every day. The issue by eschar is made by applying some acrid or caustic matter to destroy a portion of the skin, and when this dead portion is destroyed, and has fallen out, the ulcerated surface below is to be dressed with any irritating ointment proper to keep up the discharge. Care must be taken not to destroy more of the skin than we want. A piece of leather, covered with adhesive plaster, is to have a hole cut in it of the size we wish the issue to be. This is to be applied to the place in- tended, and the skin opposite to the hole to be rubbed with caustic potash, moistened with water, till the whole part which we wish to be destroyed puts on a dark and corroded appearance. Any superfluous caustic is to be carefully washed off, the plaster is to be removed, and a poultice to be put on the part. In a few days the eschar drops off, and leaves a raw surface, which may either be filled with peas, beads, or the like formed substances, or may be dressed with savine ointment, basilicon, or any substance to promote the discharge of matter. ISSUE PEAS. Those in general use are unripe oranges (orange berries) turned in a lathe. The unturned berries are also used. Peas are likewise turned from orris root. The following composition is used for making issue peas:—Yellow wax, 1|- oz.; powdered turmeric, 1 oz.; powdered orris, i oz.; and Venice tur- pentine a sufficient quantity. These are more stimulating, and are used to increase the dis- charge. The following, it is said, will open an issue itself:—Yellow wax, 6 ozs.; verdigris, 2 ozs.; white hellebore, 2 ozs.; cantharides, 1 oz.; orris, 1|- oz.; and Venice turpentine enough to make a thick ointment. ISSUE PLASTER. Melt and mix together lead plaster, 4 ozs.; Burgundy pitch, |-oz.; and powdered orris root, J oz. Spread the mixture thinly on linen or paper, and cut it into squares large enough to cover the issue wound. ITALIENN^. Put into a saucepan a spoon- ful of shred parsley, half a spoonful of shallots, the same of mushrooms (both minced small), half a bottle of white wine, and 1 oz. of butter. Boil till no moisture remains ; then put in two ladlesful of veloute and one of consomme. Set it to boil, taking care to slum off all the fat. When you find it about the consistence of clear broth take it from the fire, put it into another vessel, and keep it hot in the bain-marie.ITA I 84 ] ITC ITALIENNE WITH TRUFFLES. Chop some nice black truffles, sweat them in a little consomme, and mix them with the brown sauce Italienne. If you happen to have no Italienne ready stew them for half an hour in an Espagnole only. Keep tL.d sauce thin and highly seasoned. Itch (Psora). Though this disease is com- monly communicated by infection, yet it seldom prevails where due regard is paid to cleanliness, fresh air, and wholesome diet. It generally appears in the form of small watery pustules, first about the wrists, or between the fingers ; after- wards it affects the arms, thighs, legs, &c. These pustules are attended with an intolerable itching, especially when the patient is warm in bed, or sits by the fire. Sometimes, indeed, the skin is covered with large blotches or scabs, and at other times with a white scurf or scaly erup- tion. This last is called the dry itch, and is fhe most difficult to cure. The itch is seldom a dangerous disease, unless when it is rendered so by neglect or improper treatment. If it be suffered to continue too long it may vitiate the whole mass of humours, and if it be suddenly driven in without proper evacuations it may occasion fevers, inflammations of the viscera, or other internal disorders. The best medicine yet known for the itch is sulphur, which ought to be used both externally and internally. The parts most affected may be rubbed with an ointment made of the flowers of sulphur, 2 ozs.; crude sal ammoniac finely pow- dered, 2 drachms ; hog's lard or butter, 4 ozs. If a scruple or half a drachm of the essence of lemon be added it will entirely take away the disagreeable smell. About the bulk of a nutmeg of this may be rubbed upon the extremities at bedtime twice or thrice a week. It is seldom necessary to rub the whole body, but when it is it ought not to be done all at once, but by turns, as it is dangerous to stop too mam' nores at the same time. Before the patient begins to use the ointment he ought, if he be of a full habit, to bleed, or take a purge or two. It will likewise be proper, during the use of it, to take every night and morning as much of the flowers of brimstone and cream of tartar, in a little treacle or new milk, as will keep the body gently open. He should beware of catching cold, should wear more clothes than usual, and take everything warm. The same clothes, the linen excepted, ought to be worn all the time of using the ointment; and such clothes as have been worn while the patient was undfer the disease are not to be used again, unless they have been fumigated with brimstone and thoroughly cleansed, other- wise they will communicate the infection anew. We never knew brimstone, when used as directed above, fail to cure the itch, and we have reason to believe that, if duly persisted in, it never will fail; but if it be only used once or twice, and cleanliness neglected, it is no wonder if the disorder returns. The quantity of oint- ment mentioned above will generally be sufficient for the cure of one person, but if any symptoms of the disease should appear again the medicine must be repeated.- It is both more safe and efficacious when persisted in for a considerable time, than when a large quantity is applied at once. As most people dislike the smell of sul- phur they may use in its place the powder of white hellebore root, made up into an ointment, in the same manner, which will seldom fail to cure the itch People ought to be extremely cautious lest they take other eruptions for the itch, as the stoppage of these may be attended with fatal consequences. Many of the eruptive disorders to which children are liable have a near resem- blance ; and we have known infants killed by being rubbed with greasy ointments, that make those eruptions strike suddenly in, which nature had thrown out to preserve the patient's life, or prevent some other malady. As the external use, however, of sulphur is often attended with much inconvenience, from the dirtiness of the application, as well as its disagreeable smell, other remedies are fre- quently substituted. The most efficacious of these is a solution of arsenic or oxymuriate of mercuiy. Take oxymuriate of mercuiy, 6 grains; muriate of ammonia, 10 grains; distilled water, 12 ozs. Make a lotion. Or, take oxymuriate of mercury, 12 grains ; muriate of ammonia, 1 drachm; decoction of white hellebore, 12ozs. Make a lotion. Different combinations of sul- phuric acid have also been used. Take sulphuric acid, ^ drachm; prepared lard, 1 oz. Make an ointment. Or, take white precipitate of mercury, 2 drachms; superacetateof leadandsubcarbonatt; of potash, of each 10 grains; prepared lard, 2 ozs.; essential oil of bergamot, 25 drops. Make an ointment, to be rubbed in every night at bed- time. In some cases an infusion of tobacco leaves, used as a lotion, has cured the itch. Much mischief is likewise done by the use of mercury in this disease. Some persons are so foolhardy as to wash the parts affected with a strong solution of the corrosive sublimate. Others use the mercurial ointment, without taking the least care either to avoid cold, keep the body open, or obsei-ve a proper regimen. The consequences of such conduct may be easily guessed. We have known even the mercurial girdles produce bad effects, and would advise every person, as he values his health, to beware how he uses them. Mercury ought never to be used as a medicine without the greatest care.C 85 ] IVY IVO Ignorant people look upon these girdles as a kind of charm, without considering that the mercury enters the body. Those who would avoid this detestable dis- ease ought to beware of infected persons, to use wholesome food, and to study universal cleanliness. Sometimes the necessity for using sulphur is avoided by applying this liniment:—Take sul- phuric acid, 5 drops; rose water, 15 drops; pre- pared hog's lard, 1 oz.; essence of lemon, 15 drops. To be used night and morning. This is a neat preparation, and will answer the inten- tion well. For adults a wash composed of ^ oz. of sulphuric acid to a pint of water will answer the same purpose. IVORY is the tusk of the elephant. By steeping small pieces of ivory in vinegar, or any other acid, they become ductile, and may be preserved in that state for a considerable time by keeping them in common water. This hard substance may also be softened and whitened by immersing it in a hot decoction made of red sage leaves, in double-distilled white-wine vine- gar, with the addition of a little quicklime. For removing spots the ivory should be laid in unslaked lime, and a small quantity of water poured on it, lest the heat be too intense, and the ivory scale or become brittle. Others dis- charge the stains by merely steeping it for some time in strong lime water. Ivory may be dyed green either in a solution of copper or verdigris in aquafortis, or by grind- ing together two parts of verdigris and one of sal ammoniac, and dissolving them in strong white-wine vinegar. Farther, by employing 4 ozs. of aqua regia and 1 oz. of sal ammoniac, a fine purple colour will be the result. Ivory, bone, horn, and other solid parts ot animals may be stained yellow by previously boiling them in a solution of 1 lb. of alum in two quarts of water; then immersing them for half an hour in a liquor pi'epared by boiling ^ lb. of turmeric in one gallon of water till it be reduced to three quarts, and afterwards plunging the coloured substance into alum water. All bony matters may also be stained blue : they are first to be tinged with green, then dipped in a strong and hot solution of pearlash. Ivory may be prepared as a ground for miniature painting by cleansing the leaves or plates, and rubbing them over with the juice of garlic. This method is preferably recom- mended for removing its greasy quality, which prevents the colours from fixing on the ground, and is said to be more useful than either soap or ox-gall. With respect to the medicinal properties of ivory, its shavings, like those of hartshorn, may, by boiling, be converted into a jelly, and possess similar restorative virtues. To talis stains out of ivory. Make a light paste of sal volatile, oil, and prepared chalk, and rub it on the ivory with leather. Afterwards put a little more on, leave it to dry, and then brush it off. See Bones, Dyeing. IVORY BLACK, also called Animal Char- coal and Bone Black. Small pieces of ivory or bone are smeared with a little linseed oil, and put into a blacklead crucible; this is covered with a similar vessel inverted, but of a smaller size, and the crevices are secured with a lute made of potter's clay and rye flour, so as to prevent the access of external air. Thus pre- pared, the whole is exposed to a red heat, not too intense, for about half an hour, after which it is taken out and suffered to cool gradually. AVhen cold the charred ivory—or bones where the former is scarce—ought to be reduced to powder, and triturated, with the addition of water, on a painter's stone till it assumes the form of a smooth paste. In this state it is moulded into small cones, and allowed to dry. Similar black may also be obtained by burning the stones of peaches, after having previously dried them and removed ,the kernels. Ivory or bone black possesses the singular property of completely destroying the colour of a great number of animal and vegetable solu- tions to a much greater extent than common charcoal: thus 1 oz. of animal charcoal will in a few minutes entirely remove the colouring matter of a pint of red wine. This effect is more readily produced on hot than on cold fluids. It is largely employed on account of its decolorising power in sugar refining, and the finer the powder to which it is reduced the greater is its efficacy. It is difficult to give a satisfactory explana- tion of the decolorising power of animal char- coal ; but it appears that it is entirely dependent upon the carbonaceous matter, the action of which is, however, modified by the presence of the earthy salts, as the carbonate and phosphate of lime. It further appears that the charcoal combines with the colouring matter, but only when it is in a state of fine powder. Like powdered wood charcoal, it has also the power of destroying the fumes arising from putre- faction. IVY (Hedera helix) is well known as an ever- green creeper, forming an ornamental covering to old buildings, and a verdant clothing to what would otherwise be bare and unsightly. The fresh leaves have a balsamic odour, especially when rubbed, and a bitterish, harsh, and un- pleasant taste. They are used for dressing issues, and, in the form of decoction, have been recommended in sanious ulcers and cutaneousL B6 ] JAO JAO eruptions, particularly tetter and the itcli; and when bruised they are applied with effect to corns. The berries, which have an acidulous, nesinous, somewhat pungent taste, are said to be purgative, and even emetic, and to contain a peculiar principle called pederin. It is very bitter, and appears to be closely allied to quinia. An acid is also obtained called pederic acid. The berries are eagerly eaten by wood-pigeons, blackbirds, and thrushes. From the old trunks a resinous substance exudes through incisions in the bark, which has been employed in medicine, under the name of ivy gum, as a stimulant and emmenagogue; and placed in the cavities of carious teeth it is said to relieve toothache. The wood is soft and porous, and is used by leather cutters to whet their knives on; and it is also made into issue peas. J. JACK, or Pike. If you wish to serve it as a principal dish do not scale it, but take off the gills, draw it, and boil it in court bouillon. If as a side dish it is dressed in many ways; as, for instance, cut it in pieces, leaving the scales on, and cook them in court bouillon. When done, and you are ready to serve, take off the scales, and dish for table, pouring over it any white sauce you think proper, to which it is usual to add capers. It may also be fricasseed like chickens. In this case cut it in pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a slice of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some mushrooms; turn them a few times over the fire, and then shake in a little flour; moisten with good stock and white wine, and stew over a brisk fire. When done, and agreeably seasoned, put in the yolks of three eggs beaten up in cream. JACK, BAKED. Scale it, open it as near the throat as you can, and then stuff it with the following stuffing:—Some grated bread crumbs, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix the whole over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; rub it all over with butter, and bake it. Serve with a sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. In helping a jack the back and belly should be slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards : by this means there will be fewer bones given. JACK, BOILED. Take a large jack, clean it, take out the gills, and make a stuffing with crumbs of bread.grated finely, some sweet herbs chopped small, some grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, salt, some oysters chopped small, and a bit of butter. Mix all these ingredients together with the yolks of two eggs ; put it into the fish, and sew it up; turn the tail into the mouth, and boil it in' pump water with some vinegar and salt in it. Do not put in the fish until the liquor boils. If the fish is large it will take about three quarters of an hour to boil. Serve with oyster sauce poured over the fish, and some also in a boat. JACK, BRIDE'S FASHION. Cut a jack into several pieces, boning and flattening them as much as possible; roll a good farce round them, tie them in bits of cloth, and braise them in white wine and broth, with a piece of butter, bits of roots, a bundle of herbs, pepper, and salt. When done strip each bit, and serve with what sauce you think proper. A rehshing sharp sauce is generally considered the best. JACK A LA CHAMBORD. Take off the scales, and clean a good-sized jack; remove the skin, lard the fish, and put it into a fish kettle with a marinade. When it boils take it out, and place it in the oven, basting it occasion- ally. As soon as it is sufficiently done take it from the oven, let it drain, and then serve it. Place round it in quenelles veal sweetbreads larded, crayfish, artichoke bottoms, croutons, and a garniture d la Chambord. To these may be added pigeons a la Oautier, eels, larded with truffles, &c. JACK, FRICASSEED. Thoroughly wash the jack, then cut it into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with butter, some mushrooms, a dozen small onions half boiled, some parsley, green shallots, two cloves, thyme, and a bay leaf. Soak these together some time, and then add a pint of white wine and broth, salt, and whole pepper. Boil on a quick fire; reduce the sauce ; take out the parsley, shallots, cloves, thyme, and bay leaf; and thicken with cream, eggs, a little nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon, provided the wine does not make it sufficiently tart. JACK WITH GRAVY. Lard a jack with bacon, line a stewpan with slices of veal and bacon, lay your jack on them, cover it with the same, and let it stand over a slow fire for half an hour; then pour over it a bottle of white wine and a pint of good consomme, close the stewpan tightly, place it in the oven, and when done serve it with the braise and its own gravy. JACK, POTTED. Scale it, and cut off the head; split it, and take out the backbone ; strew it all over with bay salt and pepper, cover it, and bake it; then take it out, and lay it on a coarse cloth to drain. When it is cold lay it in a pot just large enough to hold it, and cover it with clarified butter. It must be thoroughly drained from the gravy, otherwise it will not keep. JACK SALAD. Cut the remains of a cold jack into pieces, and mix with them capers, gher- kins, anchovies, and some herbs shred. Serve the jack, garnishing the dish with lettuces and hard eggs. Mix oil and vinegar at table.[ 87 1 JAP JAO JACK, STUFFED AND ROASTED. Let the fish lie for some days, and then empty and scale it. If it be for a maigre dish lard it with anchovies and gherkins, or truffles; if not, with bacon rolled in salt, spices, shred parsley, and scallions. Stuff it, wrap the fish in a buttered paper, on which spread sweet herbs, spices, and salt; fasten it on the spit, and baste with white wine and melted butter. When done take off the paper, and serve with a pretty thick sauce piquante. JACKSON'S BATHING SPIRITS. See Bathing Spirits, Jackson's. JALAP is a purgative obtained from the root of Ipomaa purga, a plant native of Mexico. Its active principle is a resin called jalapin. Jalap in substance, taken in a dose of about fifteen grains, proves an effectual, and, in gene- ral, a safe purgative, performing the office mildly except in hot bilious temperaments, when it gripes, but rarely takes due effect as a purge. An extract originally made by water purges al- most universally, but weakly, and at the same time has a considerable effect by urine : what remains after this process gripes severely. The part of the jalap remaining after the separation of the resin yields to water an extract, which has no effect as a cathartic, but operates power- fully by urine. The resin of jalap, in the dose of four, six, or eight grains, purges in a very sensible manner. It is generally combined with sugar or emulsions, not to develope or augment its purgative property, but that it may not affect too sensibly the tissues which compose the intestinal surfaces with which it comes in contact. JAM. (SeeApEicoT, Baeberey, Blackberry, Black Currant, Cherry, Gooseberry, Dam- son, Pine-Apple, Plum, Peach, Raspberry, Strawberry, Rhubarb, and Preserving. JAMES'S ANALEPTIC PILLS. ^See Ana- leptic Pills, Dr. James's. JAMES'S FEVER POWDER is, like the antimonial powder of the Pharmacopoeia, a com- pound of oxide of antimony and phosphate of lime. In doses of from three to eight grains it acts as a sudorific, or promoter of perspiration, and may be repeated every third or fourth hour until it produces the effect desired. In larger doses it acts as a purgative and emetic. JAPANNING is the art of varnishing and painting ornaments on wood, as is done by the natives of the island of Japan. All substances that are dry and rigid, or not too flexible, as wood, metals, leather, and paper prepared, admit of being japanned. Wood and metals require no other prepara- tion than to have their surfaces perfectly even and clean; but leather should be securely stretched either on frames or on boards, as its bending would crack and force off the~varmsh. Paper should be treated in the same manner, and have a previous strong coat of size; but it is rarely japanned till converted into papier mdche, or wrought into such a form that its flexibility is lost. Black Japan Grounds formed without Heat. Black grounds may be formed by ivory black or by lampblack; the former is pre- ferable when good. These are laid on with shellac varnish, and have their upper or polishing coats of common seed-lac varnish, the tinge of the varnish being no injury here. Blue Japan Grounds. Blue japan grounds are formed of bright Prussian blue, or of verditer, glazed over with Prussian blue or smalt. The colour is best mixed with shellac varnish, and brought to a polishing state by five coats of varnish of seed-lac; but the varnish will somewhat injure the colour by giving a cast of green to a true blue, and fouling a warm blue by the yellow it contains. Where a bright blue is required, and a less degree of hardness can be dispensed with, we pursue the method directed in the case of white grounds. Common Black Japan Grounds on Iron or Copper formed by Heat. To form black japan grounds by heat, the work to be japanned is painted over with drying oil and lampblack: when of a moderate dryness it must be exposed to such a heat as will change the oil to black without weakening its tenacity. The stove should not be too hot when the work is put into it, nor the heat increased too fast, else it will blister: the slower the heat is augmented, and the longer it is continued, provided it be restrained within the due degrees, the harder will be the japan. This kind of varnish requires no polish, as that which it receives from the heat when properly managed is sufiicient. Green Japan Grounds. Green grounds are prepared by mixing King's yellow and Prussian blue, or turpeth mineral and Prussian blue, and a cheap, but fouler kind by verdigris, with a little of the above-mentioned yellows or Dutch pink. Where a bright green is wanted the crystals of verdigris (distilled verdigris) are em- ployed. To heighten the effect they are laid on a ground of leaf gold, when the colour is ex- tremely brilliant and pleasing. Japan Grounds. When a priming is used the work should be well smoothed with fish-skin or glass-paper, and, being made thoroughly clean, brushed over once or twice with hot size, diluted with two-thirds of water if it is of the common strength. The priming is laid on as evenly as possible. It is a size of a consistence between the common kind and glue, mixed with as much whiting as will giveJAP [ 88 ] JAP it a sufficient body of colour to hide the surface of whatever it is laid upon. This is repeated till the inequalities are filled up ; then the work is cleaned off with Dutch rushes, and polished with a wet rag. When wood or leather is japanned, and no priming used, the best preparation is to lay on two or three coats of coarse varnish, composed in the following manner;—Take 1 pint of recti- fied spirits of wine, and coarse seed-lac and resin, of each 2 ozs. Dissolve the seed-lac and resin in the spirit, and then strain off the var- nish. This varnish, like all others formed of spirit of wine, must be laid on in a warm place, and if it can be conveniently managed the piece of work to be varnished should also be made warm. For the same reason all dampness should be avoided, as cold or moisture chills this varnish, and prevents its taking hold of the substance on which it is laid. When the work is so prepared, or by the priming with the composition of size and whiting above described, the proper japan ground must be laid on. This is best formed of shellac varnish and the colour desired, except white, which requires a peculiar treatment; and if brightness be wanted other means must be pursued. The colours used with the shellac varnish may be any pig- ments which give the tint of the ground desired. As metals never require to be under-coated with whiting they are treated in the same man- ner as wood or leather. Oeange Japan Grounds. Orange-coloured japan grounds are formed by mixing vermilion or red-lead with King's yellow, or Dutch pink, or the orange lake, which will make the brightest oi ange ground that can be produced. Purple Japan Grounds. Purple japan grounds are produced by the mixture of lake and Prussian blue; of a darker hue by ver- milion and Prussian blue. With respect to the varnish they are treated as the others. Red Japan Grounds. For a scarlet japan ground vermilion is used ; but it has a glaring effect, much less beautiful than the crimson produced by glazing it over with carmine, fine lake, or rose pink. For a bright crimson, instead of glazing with carmine, use Indian lake, dissolved in the spirit of which the varnish is compounded. In this case, instead of glazing with the shellac varnish, the polishing coats are only used, as they equally receive and convey the tinge of the Indian lake, which may be dissolved by spirits of wine; but if the highest degree^ of whiteness is required use the white varnish. The Method of Painting Japan Work. Japan work should be painted with colours in varnish, though for despatch, and in nice work where a freer use of the pencil is required, the colours are tempered in oil; but the oil should previously have a fourth part of its weight of gum animi, or gum sandarach, or gum mas- tic dissolved in it. When the oil is thus used it is diluted with oil of turpentine, for the colours to lay evenly and thinly. By this means fewer of the polishing or upper coats of varnish become necessary. Water colours are, in some instances, laid on grounds of gold. When so used these are best without any varnish over them; and they are also sometimes managed to have the effect of embossed work. The colours thus employed for painting are prepared with isinglass size, corrected by honey or sugar candy. The body of the embossed work, which is raised, is not tinged with the exterior colour, but formed of strong gum water, thickened to a proper con- sistence by equal parts of bole Armenian and whiting. This gum is laid on the proper figure, and repaired when dry; and the whole may then be painted with the proper colours, temperel with the isinglass size or shellac varnish. TORTOISESHELL JaPAN GrOUND FORMED BY Heat. The best tortoiseshell ground pro- duced by heat is valuable for its great hardness and its beautiful appearance. Besides, it endures to be made hotter than boiling water without damage. It is made by means of a varnish prepared thus :—Take one gallon of good linseed oil, and of umber ^ lb.; boil them together till the oil becomes brown and thick; strain ic through a coarse cloth, and boil it again till it acquires a pitchy consistence, when it will be fit for use. Having prepared the varnish, clean well the iron or copper plate, or other pieces which are to be japanned; then lay vermilion tempered with shellac varnish, or with drying oil diluted with oil of turpentine, very thinly on the plates intended to imitate the more trans- parent parts of the tortoiseshell. AVhen the vermilion is dry brush the whole over with the varnish made to a true consistence with oil of turpentine, and when it is set and firm put the work into a stove, where it may undergo a very strong heat for three weeks or a month— the longer the better. This ground may be decorated with painting and gilding as other varnished surfaces. This is done after the ground has been hardened by the stove; but it should receive a second annealing with a more gentle heat after it is finished. Varnishing Japan Work. The finishinjf of japan work consists in the laying on and polishing the outer coats of varnish, as well i the pieces that have only one simple ground o colour as those that are painted. This is don with common seed-lac varnish, except wher other methods are more expedient. The same reasons which decide as to the fitness gf fhJAP JAP [ 89 ] varnishes, with respect to the colours of the ground, hold equally with regard to those of the painting. Where brightness is the most ma- terial point, and a tinge of yellow will injure it, seed-lac gives way to the whiter gums ; but uhere hardness and a greater tenacity are essen- tial the seed-lac must be adhered to. Where both are so necessary that reciprocally one should give way to the other, it is usual to adopt a mixed varnish. This mixed varnish is made of the picked seed-lac. The common seed- lac varnish, the most useful preparation of the ]<ind, may be thus made:—Take 3 ozs. of seed- lac, and put it into water, to free it from the sticks and filth intermixed with it. To do this stir it about, and then pour off the water, adding fresh quantities till it be freed from all impurities; then dry it, powder it grossly, and put it, with a pint of rectified spirit of wine, into a bottle, of which it will not fill above fwo-thirds. Shake the mixture, place the bottle in a gentle heat till the seed-lac be dissolved, and in the meantime repeat the shaking; then pour off all that can be obtained clear, strain the remainder through a coarse cloth, and the varnish thus prepared is kept for use in a well-stoppered bottle. In using the seed-lac or white varnish the substance employed in polishing should be itself white where a pure white of a great clearness is desired, whereas the browner sorts of polishing dust are cheaper, and may be used in other cases with greater despatch. The work to be varnished is placed near a fire or stove, and made perfectly dry ; the varnish is then rubbed over it by the brushes made for that purpose, beginning in the middle, and passing the brush to one end, and then with another stroke from the middle passing to the other. Where it can be possibly avoided no part should be crossed or twice passed over in forming one coat. When one coat is dry another is laid over it; and this process is continued at least six times, or more, if, on trial, the varnish be not sufficiently thick to bear the polish without laying bare the colour underneath. When a sufficient number of coats have been thus laid on the work it is fit to be polished. In common cases this is done by rubbing it with a rag dipped in tripoli or rotten-stone finely powdered; but towards the end of the rubbing a little oil of any kind is used with the powder. When the work is sufficiently bright and glossy it is rubbed with oil alone, to clean it from the powder, and give a brighter lustre. In the case of white grounds, instead of tripoli or rotten-stone, fine putty or whiting is used, both of which are washed over, to prevent the danger of damaging the work from sand or gritty matter with which they may happen to be mixed. It is an improvement in japan work to harden the varnish by heat, which, in every degree that it can be applied, short of what would burn or calcine the matter, gives it a firmer and stronger texture. Where metal forms the body a hot stove is used, and the work continued in it a considerable time, especially if the heat be gradually increased; but where the work is of wood heat is sparingly used, as it is liable to warp or shrink the body, and injure its general figure. White Japan Grounds. The nearest ap- proach to a perfect white varnish already known is made by the following composition:— Take flake-white, or white-lead, washed over and ground up with one^sixth of its weight of starch, and then dried ; temper it properly for spreading with mastic varnish, and lay these on the substance to be japanned, prepared either with or without the under coat of whiting, as ordered above; and then varnish it over with five or six coats of the following varnish:— From a quantity of the best seed-lac pick out all the clearest and whitest grains, reserving the more coloured and fouler parts for the coarse varnishes, such as those used for priming or preparing wood or leather. Take of this picked lac 2 ozs., and of gum animi 3 ozs.; reduce them to a gross powder, dissolve them in about a quart of spirits of wine, and strain off the clear varnish. The seed-lac wiU give a slight tinge to this composition, but it cannot be avoided when hard varnish is wanted, though, when a softer will answer the end, the proportion may be diminished, and a little crude turpentine added to the gum animi to take off the brittleness. A very good varnish, entirely free from brittle- ness, may be formed by dissolving as much gum animi as the oil will take in old nut or poppy oil. This must be boiled gently when the gum is put into it. The ground of white colour itself is laid on in this varnish, and then a coat or two of it put over the ground ; but when used it jnust be well diluted with oil of turpen- tine. This, though free from brittleness, is liable to suffer by being indented or bruised by any slight strokes; and it will not bear any polish, but may be brought to a smooth surface without, if judiciously managed in the laying it on. It is tedious diying, and requires time where several coats are laid on, as the last should be without oil of turpentine. Yellow Japan Ohounds. For bright yellow grounds employ King's yellow or turpeth mineral, either alone or mixed with fins Dutch pink. The effect may be heightened by dis- solving turmeric root in the spirits of wine, of which the upper or polishing coat is made. The spirits of wine must be strained from off the dregs before the seed-lac be added to it toJAR JAU C 90 ] form the varnish. The seed-lac varnish is not equally injurious here as with greens, because, tinged with a reddish yellow only, it is little more than an addition to the depth of colour. Yellow grounds may be found of Dutch pink only, which, when good, is not deficient in brightness, though extremely cheap. JAR, SWEET, or Pot Pourei. The leaves of lavender, lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, rosemary, bay, and orange. The flowers of violet, clove pinks, lavender, roses, jasmine, wallflowers, heliotropes, myrtle, mignonette, balm of Gilead, and carnation. Gather the above on a dry day, carefully pick the leaves from the buds and stems, spread them open till perfectly dry, and put them in paper bags till you make your jar; then begin with a layer of the dry leaves and a layer of the spice mixture, and so on until it is filled; cover it two days, and then mix. up the whole together from the bottom of the jar. It should be frequently mixed after the jar is made. The spice mixture is thus made:—Common salt, ^ lb.; bay salt, ^ lb.; nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, benzoin, and borax, of each i oz.; orris root pounded separately, and mixed afterwards together with the salt, i oz.; some lemoiT and Seville orange-peel dried and pounded; and i drachm of musk. JARDINIERE. This is composed of the same articles as, and in a similar manner to, the macedoine: the only difference consists in the sauce, the vegetables for this being put into a reduced Espagnole or a demie-glace of roots. It is used on the same occasions as the macedoine. JASMINE FLOWERS : To Candy. Boil 1 lb. of clarified sugar to large pearl, and when about half cold throw in two handsful of jasmine flowers, and place them on hot ashes for two hours, that they may dry well; then drain them on a sieve from the sugar, and having ready some more powdered sugar sifted, in which put the jasmine, rubbing them well with your hands, place them again on a sieve, and set them in a stove till next day, after which sift the flowers. Take 3 lbs. of clarified sugar, and boil it to souffle; have a proper mould ready, and put the flowers in it; push them lightly down with a fork, that they may be completely covered with the sugar, and place the mould in a moderate stove or oven for five days ; then drain off the syrup, lay a sheet of paper on the table, and turn the candy quickly out of the mould. JASMINE, OIL OF. Moisten some carded cotton with oil of ben, and arrange it on a hair sieve placed in a dish; then cover the cotton with fresh jasmine about three quarters of an inch thick, lay over it another dish reversed, and cover both with a cloth. After digesting three or four hours take the flowers gently away, and add fresh, repeating the process several times. When the cotton is well charged with odour put it in a press, squeeze out the oil, and keep it in a phial closely stoppered. JAUNDICE. The jaundice sets in with lassitude, inactivity, loathing of food, and cos- tiveness ; as it proceeds the skin and outer membrane of the eyes become of a deeply-tinged yellow colour; there is a bitter taste in the mouth, with frequent nausea and vomiting; the urine is very highly coloured, and tinges linen yellow; the stools are of a grey or clayey ap- pearance ; and a dull obtuse pain is felt in the right side, which is increased by pressure. When the disease has continued long, and proceeded from some chronic affection of the liver or other neighbouring parts, it is often attended with dropsical swellings of the feet and legs, and occasionally of the belly. Spots sometimes appear on different parts of the body ; the skm, yellow before, now turns brown or livid; passive discharges of blood and ulcera- tions have broken out; and in some instances the disease has assumed the form of scurvy. In recent cases of jaundice, in consequence of concretions obstructing the passage of the bile through, its proper channel, a cure, in all probability, may be effected by attention to the proper means; but where it is brought on by tumours in the circumjacent part, or has arisen in consequence of other diseases, &c., the chance is doubtful. If it arise during a state of pregnancy it will disappear on parturition, and is, therefore, of little consequence, requiring only patience for the cure. Still, however unpromising the hope of cure may at times appear, it is never- theless to be attempted, by restoring the flow of the bile through its proper channels, carrying it off by the intestines, and, in short, by reUeving the particular symptoms as they occur. Purgative medicines have been much used in this disease, with the view not only of removing costiveness, but of exciting the action of the biliary ducts by increasing that of the intes- tines. A soluble state of the bowels, where the disease arises either as a consequence of stones in the biliary ducts, or of spasmodic stricture, is undoubtedly necessary to a person labouring under this disease. With this in- tention take rhubarb in powder, 1 scruple; hard soap, \ drachm; submuriate of mercury, 12 grains. Make a mass, and divide it into twenty-four pills, of which take two or three at bedtime. Or, take aloetic pills, with myrrh, 15 grains; calomel,-24 grains ; syrup of ginger enough to make the mass into four pills, to be taken for a dose. Gentle exercise on horseback, with properJAU t 01 3 frictions, has been recommended, ■with the view .of dislodging biliary concretions ; also electrical shocks, passed through the liver in the direction of the common bile duct, are good auxiliaries in these cases. The warm bath and opiates, by their relaxing and antispasmodic power, are highly useful in jaundice. When it is found that jaundice has arisen in consequence of an inflammatory affection of the liver, it must be carried off at an early period by venesection, applying leeches, or cupping on the seat of the liver, giving cooling saline me- dicine, and applying a blister over the part, renewing the latter as soon as the place has skinned over, if the disease does not yield. Mer- cury internally and externally, as will be found advised under chronic Inflammation of the LrvEB. Soap has been considered as a specific in jaundice, either arising from the above cause or from biliary concretions, as well as neutral salts, and has been employed in considerable quantities. Hemlock has also been used, although without any very apparent good effect. Take subcarbonate of soda, 2 drachms; pow- der of Peruvian bark, 1 oz.; powder of rhubarb, i drachm; mucilage of gum arable enough to make an electuary, of which a tea-spoonful may be taken three times a day. Soap may be given in the following form, viz.:—Take gum ammonia and hard soap, of each 1 drachm; oil of juniper, 8 drops; syrup of ginger enough to make the mass into a proper consistence for twenty-four pills, four or five of which are to be taken twice a day. Costiveness may be removed with castor oil, 1 oz.; or, jalap, 1 scruple; cream of tartar, 2 scruples. Or, take socotrine aloes, 1 drachm; hard soap, 1 drachm ; subcarbonate of potass, 1 i drachm; syrup of buckthorn enough to make the mass into thirty-six pills, three or four of which are to be taken at bedtime. Jaundice arising from simple obstruction I of the gall ducts is often removed by the I internal and external use of the Bath waters. The Cheltenham water is another remedy ! found to be of essential service in obstructions of the liver, &c. This water contains salts of a purgative nature, at the same time that it pos- sesses a tonic power. The diet of a person labouring under jaun- dice, in whom biliary concretions are apt to form, should be chiefly of a vegetable nature, with exercise and fresh air, observing strict regularity in his mode of living, &c. JAUNE MANGE. BoH 1 oz. of isinglass in three quarters of a pint of water till melted; strain it, and add the juice of two Seville ! oranges, a quarter of a pint of white wine, the yolks of four eggs beaten and strained, and sugar according to taste. Stir over a gentle fire till it just boils up, and when cold put it into a mould, taking care, if there should happen to be any sediment, not to pour it in. JAW, LOCKED, or Tetanus (for so spasm, when much extended, is called), begins with stiffness of the neck, succeeded by a sense of uneasiness at the root of the tongue, and sometimes by an interruption of swallowing. There is also pain below the breast bone, which pain extends towards the back. This is pro- ductive both of spasm in the neck, pulling it backward, and of so rigid a contraction of the muscles of the lower jaw as to occasion what is called a locked jaw. Other muscles becoming affected, particularly those of the spine, and the trunk of the body bending backward, con- stitute that description of disease named opisthotonos. The arms, thighs, and legs are also ultimately rigidly extended. The muscles of the belly participate in the affection, as do also those of most of the other parts. The body becomes at last straight and rigid. During the severity of the attack the forehead is some- times thrown into wrinkles, the eyes are fixed, the nose is drawn upwards, and the countenance has the expression as of a horrid grin. Though there is seldom much fever, the pulse, when the spasms are violent, becomes frequent, and the face somewhat red. In the absence of the urgent symptoms the face is pale and covered with a cold sweat. The appetite and power of digesting the food are not materially impaired. The senses remain perfect. The urine is some- times discharged with difficulty. Costiveness for the most part attends. The spasms in this affection, not being constant, are renewed sometimes every ten or fifteen minutes, often spontaneously; at other times on such motions as those of attempting to swallow or speak. That species of this disease called em- prosthotonos, in which the body is said to be bent forward, and retained by spasmodic con- traction of the muscles, and which is mentioned by the ancients to have taken place, is so rare an occurrence that a modern instance of it is scarcely on record. Pleurosthotonos, or the bending of the body on one side, is also a form of tetanus which has seldom appeared. Contraction of the lower jaw, unattended with much extension of spasm, and that species of affection peculiar to infants, called falling of the jaw, in which the mouth is rigidly open, may both be considered as belong- ing to emprosthotonos. The causes are such as errors in diet and sudden vicissitudes of temperature. This dis- ease often attacks those who, in tropical countries, imprudently expose themselves to the night air. Lacerations, injuries of the parts,[ 92 ] JEL JEL strychnia, and surgical operations may also be considered as the morbid agents. Spasmodic affection may be known from the convulsive by the muscles in the former re- maining long in a state of rigid contraction, whereas in the latter they are alternately, though involuntarily contracted and relaxed. Few survive the third day of this disease unless it comes on gradually. When thia is the case, and the person afflicted gets over nine or ten days, there will be some hopes of recovery. The danger is proportioned to the suddenness and urgency of the attack. Should the termi- nation prove fatal convulsions usually close the scene. On dissection nothing preternatural is in general found in these complaints. When this affection is occasioned by a punc- ture or small wound it may be reasonably supposed to originate from the partial division of a nerve. A free enlargement of the wound should, therefore, instantly be made. As arising from local irritation it will, if prac- ticable, be also expedient to cut off the nervous communication with the brain. During the urgent stage the ordinary ex- citing powers should have an active influence. Hartshorn, too, may be applied to the nose. The temples may also be fomented with it. If the fit be of long continuance it may be used as an embrocation to the neck and spine. Opiate clysters should be injected. Volatiles, opiates, warm bathing, and blisters are also proper. In the convalescent state recourse may be had to coffee, jellies, broth, gruel, wine, aiid those more solid articles of animal and vegetable substances which constitute nutritious diet. The drink may be wine and water, or other fermented liquor. Occasionally it should be ■wine in its unmixed state, or spirit sufficiently weakened with water. The temperature should be mild. An atmosphere abounding with a suit- able portion of vital air will be required, and, when the strength will admit, walking, riding, or exercise in the open air. Light and sound, together with those other powers which in- fluence the organs of sense, must be suitably regulated. The energy of the mind should be supported. Tonic medicines are also useful. JELLIES OF FRUITS. &e Apple, Bae- BEERY, CpERRY, CuERANT, DaMSON, GrAPE, Orange, Peach, Quince, Raspberry, Straw- BEEEY, and Preserving. JELLY: To Keep. Take a leg of beef and two shins cut in pieces, one or two old cocks or hens' skinned, and two calves' feet; put all these into ten quarts of water, and boil them down to a strong jelly; skim it well, add some salt, and ryu it through a jelly bag till it is clear. JELLY, ALE OR PORTER. For a large shape put to the prepai'ed stock or jelly more than half a bottle of strong ale or porter, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, the peel of one and the juice of four large lemons, a stick of cinnamon, and the beaten whites of eight eggs. Put the whole into a saucepan, and stir it gently; let it boil for fifteen minutes, and pour it into a jelly bag till it runs perfectly clear. JELLY, ARROWROOT. Steep for some hours in two table-spoonsful of water the peel of a lemon, and three or four bitter almonds pounded; strain, and mix it with three spoonsful of arrow- root, the same quantity of lemon juice, and one of brandy; sweeten, stir it over the fire till quite thick, and when perfectly cold put it into jelly glasses. JELLY CAKE. Take lib. ot flour, lib. of sugar, lb. of butter, six eggs, half a nutmeg, and a spoonful of rose brandy; beat the butter and sugar together, adding the other ingredients, and the whites of the eggs beaten separately. Have shallow tin pans or plates of the same size, butter them, and pour in the batter so as to be about half an inch thick when baked. They take but a few minutes to bake of a light brown. As you take them from the oven put them on a china plate, with a layer of jelly upon each cake, till you have four or five layers. Cut the cake in slices before handing it. Currant jelly is to be preferred; but quince will answer, or peach marmalade. JELLY, CALF'S-FEET. See Calf's-Feet Jelly. JELLY TO COVER FISH. Clean the fish called a maid, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf's foot or cow-heel, a piece of horseradish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a bit of lemon peel, and a slice of lean gammon of bacon. Stew the whole till it begins to glutinise, then strain it off, and when cold remove every particle of fat; clear it from the sediment, and boil it in a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon-peel. Simmer the whole gently without stirring, and after a few minutes put it on one side to settle for half an hour. When cold strain it through a bag or sieve, and cover the fish with a wet cloth. JELLY, ENGLISH GUAVA. Put the berries into an enamelled or German saucepan, and let them simmer for a few minutes, mashing them with a wooden or a silver spoon ; then place them in a dairy or cheese cloth, or even a piece of strong coarse muslin; squeeze the pulp until the pips and skins are dry; then, having weighed the saucepan, pour in the juice, and take the weight of it, adding fine sugar at the rate of pound for pound. A very short time will suffice for boiling it, on account of the pro-JEL JEL r 83 ] vious heating to which it has been exposed. When it is inclined to set, which is ascertained in the usual way, pour it into small jars, and in a few weeks it will be in high order. JELLY, GLOUCESTER. Take 1 oz. of rice, the same of sago, pearl barley, hartshorn shavings, and eryngo root; simmer with three pints of water till reduced to one pint, strain it, and when cold it will be a jelly. When you use it serve dissolved in wine, milk, or broth. JELLY, ICED. See Iced Jelly. JELLY, ISINGLASS. See Isinglass Jellt. JELLY, ITALIAN. Make a wine or calfs- foot jelly, with which half fill the mould. When thoroughly set take some Italian cream that has been turned out of a plain mould, cut it into slices, and afterwards cut it with a middling-sized round cutter; lay these pieces of cream in a circle round your jelly, and when all are arranged put in very gently enough jelly to cover them. When that is set fill up your mould, and when wanted turn it out the same as any other jelly. JELLY, IVORY. Boil 1 lb. of ivory dust in five pints of water till reduced to a quart; strain it, add one quart more water to the dust, and boil till reduced to a pint; then strain it again, squeeze in some orange or lemon juice, and sweeten according to taste. JELLY - MAKING.- {See Calf's-Feet Jelly.) The mechanical precautions necessary are to strain the jelly while hot through a bag shaped like the letter V. The bag must be kept before a fire, to preserve the jelly in a liquid state during the straining. The bag is to be made of flannel, and kept open at the mouth by a small loop. j To get the jelly, when cold, unbroken out of i the moulds into which it has been pouref^, requires somewhat different treatment according i to the material of which it is made. A jelly ; mould may be made either of common tin, ! block tin, or of white earthen or stone ware. If of one or other of the two first-mentioned materials, before the jelly is turned out the outer surface of the mould should be rapidly wiped with a napkin dipped in hot water; if the mould is of earthenware it should itself be dipped for an instant up to the edges in hot i water. The jelly will then turn out well, pro- vided it be well set, cold, and stiff. JELLY, MULLED. Take a table-spoon- ful of currant or grape jelly, and beat in it the white of an egg and a little loaf sugar; pour on it half a pint of boiling water, and break into it a slice of dry toast or two crackers. JELLY OF PIGS' FEET AND EARS. Having cleaned the feet and ears, boil them in a vei7 little water till they are so tender that the bones will come out easily Season with chopped sage, parsley, pepper, salt, and mace. Simmer till the herbs are scalded, and then pour off the whole into a dish. JELLY, PRINTANIERE. Clarify f lb. of sugar and I oz. of isinglass as directed for each, and having prepared your fruits or flowers, mix them with the sugar when no more than lukewarm; strain the mixture through a silk sieve, add the isinglass, stir lightly with a silver spoon, and put it into a mould. Take about 10 lbs. of ice, break it up, put it into a tub or pail, in which immerse the mould for three hours; then take out the mould, dip it into hot water as quickly as possible, and turn the jelly into a dish for table. JELLY PUFFS. Take a broad pan, and put into it a pint of rich milk and ^ lb. of the best fresh butter. Cut up the butter in the milk, and if in cold weather set it in a warm place on the stove, or on the hearth near the fire, till the butter is quite soft, but do not allow it to melt or oil—it must be merely warmed so as to soften; then take it off, anl with a knife stir the butter well through tha milk till thoroughly mixed. Have ready J lb. of fine flour sifted into a deep dish. In a broad pan beat eight eggs with a whisk till they are very light and thick; then stir the beaten egg into the pan of milk and butter in turn with the sifted flour, a little at a time of each. Stir the whole very hard, and then put the mixture into buttered tea-cups, filling them only two-thirds. Set them immediately into a brisk oven, and bake them twenty minutes or more, till they are well browned and puffed up lightly; then take them from the oven, and with a knife open a slit in the side of each puff, and cirefully put in with a spoon sufficient fruit jelly or marmalade to fill up the inside or cavity; afterwards close the slit, and press it together with your fingers. As you fill the puffi lay each on a large dish, and before they go to table sift powder sugar over them. Eat them cold. If properly made they will be found delicious. JELLY, RESTORATIVE. Beat and break the bone of a leg of pork just as it is cut up, set it over a slow fire with, three gallons of water, and let it simmer ; put in i oz. of mace, with the same quantity of nutmeg ; strain it off, and when cold clear it of the fat. Take a good-sized cupful the first thing in the morn- ing, again at noon, and the last thing at night. JELLY, RIBBON. Boil four calves' feet, without the great bones, in ten quarts of water, 3 ozs. of hartshorn, 3 ozs. of isinglass, a nutmeg quartered, and four blades of mace. Boil till it is reduced to two quarts, strain it through a flannel bag, and when it has stood twenty-four hours scrape off all the fat very clean, slice theJET C 01 3 JEL jelly, add the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth, boil the whole up, and strain it through a flannel bag. Pour it into small high glasses, and run each colour as thick as a finger, each colour being thoroughly cold before another is poured on, which must be only lukewarm, or they will mix together. Red may be made with cochineal, green with spinach, yellow with saffron, blue with syrup of violets, and white with thick cream. The plain jelly itseK may be used as a cream. JELLY, RUSSIAN. Clarify f lb. of sugar and 2 ozs. of isinglass; put them together into an earthen pan, which place on ice; add to it the juice of two lemons and four small glasses of kirschwasser; then take a whisk, and beat it up over the ice till it becomes as white as beaten egg. The moment it gets firm put it into a mould, and finish the jelly in the usual way. JELLY, SAGO. Soak a large spoonful of sago in cold water for an hour, then pour off the water, substitute a pint of fresh, and stew it gently till reduced to about half the quantity. When done pour it into a basin, and let it cool. JELLY, SAVOURY. Take off aU the scum from the cold liquor that either poultry or meat has been braised in, or some veal stock, and make it warm; strain it through a sieve into a stewpan, and season it to the palate with salt, lemon pickle, Cayenne pepper, and tarragon or plain vinegar ; add sufficient dissolved isin- glass to make it of a proper stiffness, whisk in plenty of whites of eggs, a small quantity of the yolks and shells, and just colour it; set it over the fire, and let it boil; then simmer it for a quarter of an hour, and run it through a jelly bag several times till bright and fine. JELLY, SAVOURY (to put over Cold Pies). It should be made either of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of mutton ; or, if the pie is made of fowl or rabbits, the carcasses, necks, or heads, added to any piece of meat, wUl be sufficient, observing to give consistence with cow-heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, with a slice of ham or bacon, a bundle of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, the same quantity of whole pepper, and three pints of water, into a stewpan that shuts very closely. When it boils skim it well, and let it simmer slowly till quite strong ; strain it, and when cold take off all the fat you possibly can with a spoon; then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of blotting paper on. If, when it is cold, it is not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (^but 'do not add the sediment), and pour it through a fine sieve, with a napkin in it, which should be previously dipped in hot water to prevent waste. JELLY, SHANK. Soak twelve ehanks of mutton four hours, cleanse them thoroughly, and put them into a saucepan, with three blades of mace, an onion, some peppercorns, sweet herbs, and a crust of bread toasted; put thereon three quarts of water, and set the pan (covered) on a hot hearth. Simmer gently five hours, strain off the jelly, and put it by in a cool place. A pound of beef may be added with advantage. JELLY, WHIPPED. Make a Jelly Prin- TANiEEE, pour about a quarter of it into a mould, and ice it as therein directed; then take away the mould, and place a basin in its stead, in which put the remainder of the jelly, and whip with a whisk, as you would eggs, until the globules are no bigger than a pin's head ; pour it into the mould, and replace it on the ice for three quarters of an hour, after which turn it out as usual. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES are dressed as other white vegetables; but they are no way so good as roasted, and served in a napkin with melted butter. They take very little stewing or boiling. They may be cut into bottoms, and if not overdone they answer very well. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, CROU- STADES OF. Make a firm paste with yolk of egg, milk, sugar, salt, and flour; work and make it extremely smooth and tough by roUing; choose the artichokes of one size, and as near the same form as possible; mould the paste thinly round them, and cut the top off with a sharp knife; orna- ment them round the mouth, cut out a round with a border to fall over, and cut the si2;e of a shilling out of the middle ; egg the croustades, and lay them over small tops of puff paste; or the croustades may be made the long way, and the tops moulded to appear like the artichoke. When ready scoop out part of the artichoke, put in a bit of nice fresh butter seasoned with mace and salt, and finish as Potato Croustades. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE TARTS are done the same as Spinach Tarts, only they may be covered with paste, or with butter and egg, sugared, and stuck over with citron and almonds. JESUIT'S DROPS. See Fells' Balsam. JET. A black inflammable concrete, which becomes electrical by friction, attracts light substances in the same manner as amber, and when burning emits a bituminous smell. It has the graui of wood, is but moderately hard, and splits most easily in a horizontal direction. Jet is always found in detached masses, lodged in other strata. It aboimds nowhere so plentifully as in England, being very common in Yorkshire and other northern counties, though it is also discovered in many clay-pits about London. Ireland, Sweden, Prussia,JET JUL [ 05 ] Germany, and other parts of Europe, as well as the East Indies, produce this fossil. It admits of a high polish, and is chiefly converted into small boxes, buttons, bracelets, and other toys. In conjunction with oils it forms an ingredient in varnishes ; and, when mixed with pulverised lime, it is said to produce a hard and durable cement. JET VAKNISH, HARNESS-MAKERS'. This is composed of 4 ozs. of glue, J oz. of isin- glass, ^oz. of soft soap, 1 drachm of indigo, and a small quantity (about one pennyworth) of log- wood raspings, boiled in a quart of vinegar until reduced one-half. It is applied to the leather with a soft sponge, laid on very thinly, observing that the article to be varnished is quite clean. It is applicable to boots or any other leather article as well as harness, and might be im- proved by the addition of i oz, of sulphate of iron. JOHN DORY. A good fish, cutting very white and finn; equal to turbot in firmness, but not in richness. Those caught off Plymouth and Torbay are the best- It is in season from March to June. JOHN DORY: To Dress. John Dory is esteemed a great delicacy, and should be cooked and served in the same manner as Tuebot. JOURNEY OR JOHNNY CAKE. Take a quart of sifted Indian meal, sprinkle a little salt over it, and mix it with scalding water, stir- ring it well; bake it on a board before the fire, or on a tin in the stove. It is healthy food for children eaten warm, not hot; with molasses or milk. JUJUBE GUM. Take jujubes, lib.; very white and picked gum arable, 2lbs.; powder sugar, 2 ozs. Pound the jujubes in amarble mortar with five pints of water, put the whole into a pan, and boil till reduced to three pints; strain the decoction through a cloth, beat up the white of an egg with a glass of water, mix part of it with the decoction as it boils, and throw in a little at a time of the remaining part to check the ebullition. When it is all used take off the scum, put it again on the fire to evaporate the I water, adding at the same time gum and sugar, powdered and passed through a horsehair sieve. Stir it with the spatula until dissolved. When it is of the consistence of honey place it in a bain-marie, and neither stir nor touch it, that it may be clear. When it has acquired body enough, so as not to stick to the back of the hand when applied to it, pour it into moulds I previously oiled with good olive oil, as for 1 Jujube Paste, and place it in the stove to finish drying. _ When dry take it out, and cut it in small pieces. JUJUBE PASTE. Take jujubes, 4ozs.; currants, washed and picked, 4oz3.; raisins stoned, 1 lb.; sugar, 2 lbs.; verjr white gum arable, 2^ lbs. Open the jujubes, and boil them with the currants and raisins in two quarts of water until reduced to three pints ; strain the decoction through a tamis cloth twisted by two persons; add the sugar in syrup, with gum which has previously been pounded and dissolved in a sufficient quantity of water; evaporate it by a moderate heat; pour it into tin moulds slightly oiled, having edges about a quarter of an inch deep, and diy in the stove. Take it out of the tins, and cut it with a pair of scissors into small diamonds. JULEP. A convenient form of medicines which require no decoction, and are mixed up with syrup or sugar, in order to dilute them properly, or to cover their pungency. Acid Julep consists of 3 drachms ot weak vitriolic acid, 3 ozs. of simple syrup, and 2 lbs. of spring water. These ingredients are to be gradually mixed, and the whole carefully strained. See Viteiolic Acid. Amber Julep. Let 2 drachms oftincture of amber and ^ oz. of refined sugar be mixed with 6 ozs. of spring water, and carefully strained. Under this form the tincture of amber is rendered an agreeable medicine, which may be substituted for the amber itself in nervous affections, &c., for which it is sometimes pre- scribed. Camphorated Julep. See Camphor Julep. Cordial Julep. Take of simple cinnamon water 4 ozs; Jamaica pepper water, 2 ozs. ; volatile aromatic spirit and compound spirit of lavender, of each 2 drachms; syrup of orange- peel, 1 oz. Mix them. Dose, two spoons- ful three or four times a day in disorders accompanied with great weakness and depression of spirits. Ether Julep is composed of 2 scruples of pure vitriolic ether, 6 ozs. of spring water, and ^ oz. of refined sugar, which ingredients are to be mixed and strained. In spasmodic affections this preparation is often given with advantage in repeated draughts of about half a tea-cupful every hour, or oftener. Expectorating Julep. Take of the emulsion of gum ammoniac 6 ozs.; syrup of squills, 2 ozs. Mix them. In coughs, asthmas, and obstructions of the breast, two table-spoonsful of this julep may be taken every three or four hours. Musk Julep. Eub i drachm of musk well together with ^ oz. of sugar, and add to it gradually simple cinnamon and peppermint water, of each 2 ozs.; of the volatile aromatic spirit, 2 drachms. In the low state of nervous fevers, hiccuping, convulsions, and other spas- modic affections, two table-spoonsful of this julep may be taken every two or three hours.[ 90 ] JUL JUM Saline Julep is a mixtui'e of 3 drachms of purified potash and ^ lb. of water; to which are to be added 1 oz. of the syrup of black currants and ^ lb. of lemon juice, or such a quantity of the latter as will be sufficient to saturate the alkali. This compound is often used in febrile diseases by taking two or three table-spoonsful eveiy hour, in order to promote a slight per- spiration. It also increases the secretion of urine, and is frequently employed to restrain vomiting. Vomiting Jolep. Dissolve 4 grains of emetic tartar in 8 ozs. of water, and add to it ^ oz. of the syrup of clove gillyflowers. In the begin- ning of fevers, where there is no topical inflammation, this julep may be given in the dose of one table-spoonful every quarter of an hour till it operates. Antimonial vomits serve not only to evacuate the contents of the stomach, but likewise to promote the different excretions. Hence they are found in fevers to have nearly the same effects as Dr. James's powder. JULIENNE. This soup is composed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil. The roots are cut in thin slips about an inch long; the onions are halved, and then sliced ; the lettuce and sorrel chopped small. Toss up the roots in a little butter, and when they are done add the lettuce, &c. moisten them with broth, and boil the whole over a slow fire for an hour or more if necessary. Prepare some bread in the usual way, and pour the Julienne over it. JULY. Provisions for domestic consumption now in use are: — Fish. Cod, haddock, mullet, mackerel, her- rings, salmon, soles, plaice, flounders, skate, thornback, carp, tench, pike, eels, lobsters, prawns, shrimps, crayfish, and sturgeon. Fruit. Musk lemons, strawberries, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, red and white Joan- netings, with several early apples and pears, morello and other cherries, peaches, nectarines, apricots, plums, figs, grapes, walnuts for pickling, and rock samphire. Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and buck venison. Poultry and Game. The same as in June, with young partridges, pheasants, and wild ducks, called flapears or monitors. Vegetables. Carrots, turnips, potatoes, cabbages, cauliflowers, sprouts, artichokes, peas, kidney beans, cucumbers, celery, radishes, en- dive, onions, garlic, chervil, sorrel, purslane, lettuces, cresses, all sorts of salads, rocambole, scorzonera, salsafy, balm, mint, thyme, and pot herbs of all kinds. JUMBLES. Stir i lb. of powdered loaf sugar and i lb. of butter to a cream ; beat three eggs till very light; throw them all at once into a pan with ^ lb. of sifted flour, and put in the butter and sugar, with a table-spoonful of rose water, a nutmeg grated, and a tea-spoonful of mixed mace and cinnamon. If you have no rose water substitute six or seven drops of strong essence of lemon, or more if the essence is weak. Stir the whole very hard with a knife. Spread some flour on your pasteboard, and flour your hands well; take up with your knife a portion of the dough, and lay it on the board ; roll it lightly with your hands into long thin rolls, which must be cut into equal lengths, curled up in rings, and laid gently in an iron or tin pan, buttered, not too close to each other, as they spread in baking. Bake them in a quick oven about five minutes, and grate loaf sugar over them when cool. The top of the oven may be neai'ly red-hot, otherwise the jumbles will run into each other, and become flat and shapeless. JUMBLES, COMMON. Take lib. of flour, ^Ib. of butter, fib. of sugar, three eggs, and a little nutmeg and rose brandy ; mix the butter and sugar together, and add the flour and eggs. Mould them iu rings, and bake them slowly. JUMBLES, CUP. Five tea-cupsful of flour, three of sugar, one heaped cupful of butter, one of sweet cream, three eggs, and the peel of a lemon grated, or nutmeg or mace if you like. Roll them thinly, and bake them in a quick oven. JUMBLES "for DELICATE PERSONS. Roll a heaped pint of light brown sugar, and rub it in two pints of flour, | lb. of butter, and a dessertspoonful of cinnamon; beat an egg, and mix it with half a tea-cupful of rich milk, in which a very slnall piece of saleratus has been dissolved; stir the whole together with a wine-glass of rose brandy, work it well, roll thinly, and cut them out. Bake with a moderate heat. JUMBLES, JACKSON'S. Mix three tea- cupsful of sugar, one of butter, five of flour, and one tea-spoonful of saleratus in a cup of sour cream and two eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Season them with the peel of a fresh lemon grated, and half a wine-glass of brandy. JUMBLES, MOLASSES. Beat fib. of sugar, the same of bu iter, and three eggs together; stir in half a pint of molasses, add rose brandy and nutmeg, and enough flour to make soft dough. Roll it in rings, and bake as other jumbles. JUMBLES, RICH. Rub 1 lb. of butter into IJlb. of flour; beat four eggs with IJlb. of sugar, and when very light mix them with the butter and flour, adding a glass of rose-water and a nutmeg. Roll them in rings, and bake them slowly. Sift powder sugar over after they ai'o baked.JUN [ 97 ] KA V Tne provisions for domestic use in season during this month are:— Fish. Trout, carp, tench, pike, ee]s, salmon, soles, turbot, mullet, mackerel, herrings, smelts, lobsters, crayfish, and prawns. Feutt. Cherries, straisberries, gooseberries, currants, apricots, pears, peaches, nectarines, grapes, melons, and pine-apples. Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and buck venison. Poultry and Game. Fowls, pullets, chickens, green geese, ducklings, turkey poults, plovers, wheatears, leverets, and rabbits. Vegetables. Carrots, turnips, potatoes, parsnips, radishes, onions, beans, peas, aspa- ragus, kidney beans, artichokes, cucumbers, lettuce, spinach, parsley, purslane, rape, cresses, all sorts of salad, thyme, and pot herbs in general. JUNIPER (Juniperus communis). Juniper berries possess a strong, not unpleasant smell, and a warm, pungent, sweet taste, which, on chewing or previously well bruising them, is succeeded by a bitterish flavour. They require two years before they ripen, and yield, on expression, a rich, sweet, aromatic juice, bearing some resemblance to the taste of honey. These berries are useful carminatives, for which purpose j a spirituous water and an essential oil are pre- pared from them. The Swedes eat them for breakfast in the form of a conserve. In 1 Germany they are frequently used as a culinary j spice, and especially for imparting their flavour 1 to sauer-kraut. The spirit impregnated with the i essential oil of this fruit is known by the name ! of Gin, to which refer. i A roh is prepared of the liquor remaining after the distillation of the oil; it is passed through a strainer, and gently exhaled to a due consistence. Recommended as a medicine of great efficacy in cases of impaired digestion and I debility of the intestines. It is also very service- ' able to aged persons labouring under diseases of the urinary passages. The rob is of a balsamic sweet taste, somewhat bitter, accordingly as the seeds have been more or less bruised. One of the best forms, however, is a simple watery • infusion of the berries or the tops, with the addition of a small quantity of gin: thus a very useful medicine is obtained for dropsical patients. The Laplanders are accustomed to drink such infusions as substitutes for tea and coffee. The oil of juniper, when mixed with that of nuts, makes an excellent varnish for pictures, woodwork, and for preserving iron from rust. The wood of the juniper tree is of a reddish colour, veiy hard, and durable. It is employed in marquetry and veneering, making cups, cabinets, Arc , wliile the bark may be manu- VOL. II. factured into ropes. The charcoal made from this wood affords the most durable heat, so that live embers are said to have been found in the ashes after having been covered for twelve months. The resin of this plant (sandarach), when powdered and rubbed into paper, is fre- quently used under the name of pounce. JUNIPER RATAFIA. Take of juniper berries 3 ozs.; anise, coriander, cinnamon, and cloves, of each 18 grains. Bruise all these ingredients, and infuse them for a month in three pints of brandythen strain it, add f lb. of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, stir them together, pass the whole through a jelly bag, and bottle it. Keep it well corked. JUNKET, DEVONSHIRE. In a dish that will hold a pint and a half of new milk put sufficient grated loaf sugar to sweeten it, a tea- spoonful of the best pounded cinnamon, and blend well with sugar; to this add two or three table- spoonsful of brandy, and mix thoroughly; then pour upon it the milk as nearly as possible the warmth for running cheese. Next add the ren- net, which requires much judgment, because if too much be put it imparts a very unpleasant flavour. When the rennet is perfectly good and strong a dessert-spoonful is enough. It will take perhaps half an hour before it is of a proper consistence, which should be tolerably solid without being stiff. The surface of the junket is then thickly laid over with Devonshire cream, taken off the pan in which it was scalded the day before, loaf sugar grated upon the cream, and a small portion of nutmeg if appi'oved. K KABOBS. See Cabobs. KAJEPUT. See Cajeput Oil. KALE, SEA. This plant, though now cultivated in gardens, grows wild on the sea- coast, and is improved by the poor people, who hoe up the sand round the plants, and after- wards cut them for sale. They are tied up in bundles like asparagus, and are commonly dressed in a similar manner, being served on toast at the bottom of the dish, with melted butter or gravy. KAVIA. Take the hard roes of several sturgeons, and lay them in a tub of water ; take away all the fibres as you would from a calf's brain, and then with a whisk beat the roes in the water, shaking off from the whisk whatever fibres may be adhering to it; then lay the roes on sieves for a short time, after which put them into fresh water again, and continue to whip them and change the water until the roes are perfectly cleansed and free from fibre; lay them on sieves to drain, season them well with salt Vlt 98 ] KED KET and pepper, wrap them in a coarse cloth, tying them up like a ball, and let them drain thus till the next day, -when serve them with fried bread and shallots chopped small. If they are to be kept for some time put more salt to them. KEDGEREE. Boil two table-spoonsful of rice, and add any fish previously cooked and nicely picked (salmon or turbot is preferable); beat up an egg well, and stir it in just before serving. The egg must not boil. KENNEL COAL. See Anthracite. KENTUCKY BATTER CAKES. Sift a quart of yellow Indian meal into a pan, and mix with it two large table-spoonsful of wheat flour and a salt-spoonful of salt. Warm a pint and a half of rich milk in a small saucepan, but do not let it come to a boil. When it begins to simmer take it off the fire, and put into it two pieees of fresh butter, each about the size of a hen's egg; stir the butter into the warm milk till it melts and is well mixed; then stir in the meal gradually, and set the mixture to cool; beat four eggs till very light, and add them by degrees to the mixture, stirring the whole very hard. If you find it too thin add a little more corn meal. Have ready a griddle heated over the fire, and bake the batter on it. Send tlie cakes to table hot, and eat them with butter, to which you may add molasses or honey. KERMES MINERAL is a combination of sulphuret of antimony with water, and an extra quantity of sulphur. On the continent it is employed instead of James's powder. In small doses of from half a grain to a grain every three hours it produces perspiration ; in larger doses of from four to ten grains it acts as a purgative and emetic. KERNEL WATER. Take 1 lb. of apricot and i lb. of peach and cherry kernels, and put them to soak in warm river water. The next day peel, and put them to infuse in three quarts of brandy for nine days, and then distil them in an alembic in the bain-marie. Dissolve four quarts of crushed sugar in three quarts of filtered water, and add ^ lb. of orange-flower water ; mix this with the brandy, strain it through a jelly bag, and bottle it. KERNELS, CREAM OF. Take i lb. of apricot kernels, and cut them into small pieces; infuse them in a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of water for a week, and then distil the liquor ; dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in a pint of orange-flower water and three quarts of water, and add this to the distilled liquor; filter the whole through a-jelly bag, and bottle it. KERNELS, RATAFIA OF. Take 1 lb. of apricot kernels, or if you choose you need only use almonds ; let them infuse eight days in two bottles of brandy and one bottle of water, with 1 lb. of sugar, a handful of coriander seeds, and a small quantity of cinnamon; then strain through a filtering bag, and when quite clear bottle it off. KERRY BUTTERMILK. Put six quarts of buttermilk into a cheese cloth, hang it in a cool place, and let the whey drip from it for two or three days. When it is rather thick put it into a basin, sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a glass of brandy or sweet wine, and as much raspberry jam or syrup as will colour and give it an agreeable flavom*. Whisk it well together, and serve it in a glass dish. KETCHUP. There is no article used for domestic purposes more commonly adulterated than ketchup. Quantities are met with con- stantly, which, on examination by chemical tests, are found impregnated with copper. Ketchup, indeed, is often nothing else than the residue left behind after the process employed for obtaining distilled vinegar, diluted with a decoction of the green husk of the walnut, and seasoned with allspice, Cayenne pepper, pimento, garlic, and common salt. Those persons, there- fore, who are fond of ketchup should make it themselves, otherwise they can never be sm-e of escaping from the effects of the villanous com- positions which are manufactured by unprin- cipled dealers. KETCHUP, ENGLISH. Peel ten cloves of garlic, bruise them, and put them into a quart of white wine vinegar; take a quart of white port, set it on the fire, and when it boils put in twelve or fourteen anchovies, washed and cut in pieces. Let them simmer in the wine till they are dissolved, and when cold put them to the vinegar; then take half a pint of white wine, and put into it some mace, ginger sliced, a few cloves, and a spoonful of whole pepper bruised ; let them boil a little, and when cold slice in a whole nutmeg and some lemon- peel, with two or three spoonsful of horseradish; add it to the rest, stop it closely, and stir it once or twice a day. It will soon be fit for use. KETCHUP, MUSHROOM (1). Take41bs. of mushrooms, and the same of common salt; sprinkle the salt over the mushrooms, and when the juice is drawn out add 8 ozs. of pimento and 1 oz. of cloves. Boil these for a short time, and press out the liquor: that which remains may be treated again with salt and water for an inferior kind. KETCHUP, MUSHROOM (2). Take the large flaps of mushrooms gathered when dry, and bruise them; put some at the bottom of an earthen pan, and strew salt over them; then put on another layer of mushrooms, then salt, and so on till you have sufficient. Let them stand a day or two, stirring them eveiy day; strain the liquor through a flannel bag, and to eveiyKEY [ 99 ] KET gallon of liquor add one quart of red wine; mace, cloves, allspice, of each ^ oz., with a race or two of cut ginger. If not salt enough add a little more. Boil it till one quart is wasted, strain it into a pan, and let it get cold. Pour it from the settlings, bottle it, and cork it tightly. KETCHUP, MUSHEOOM (3). Take care that the mushi-ooms are of the right sort, and fresh gathered. Full-grown flaps are the best. Put a layer of these at the bottom of a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them with salt; then add another layer of mushrooms, with more salt, and so on alternately. Let them remain two or three hours, by which time the salt will have penetrated the mushrooms, and rendered them easy to break; then pound them in a mortar, or mash them well with your hands, and let them remain two days, during which stir them up and mash them well; then pour them into a stone jar, and to every quart put 1 oz. of whole black pepper; stop the jar closely, set it in a stewpanful of boiling water, and keep it boiling two hours. On taking out the jar pour the juice clear from the sediment thi'ough a hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and let it boil gently half an hour; skim it well, and pour it into a clean jar or jug; cover it closely, let it stand in a cool place till the next day, then decant it off as gently as possible through a tamis or thick flannel bag till it is perfectly fine, and add a table-spoonful of good brandy to each pint. Now let it stand again, when a fresh sediment will be deposited, from which the ketchup must be gently poured off into bottles which have been previously washed with brandy or other ardent spirit. Kept closely corked and in a 1 cool place it will remain good a long time. I Examine it, however, occasionally by placing a [; strong light behind the neck of the bottle, and if any skin appears upon it boil it up again with a few peppercorns. This is called double i ketchup, and a table-spoonful of it will impart the fall flavour of mushroom to half a pint ' of sauce. KETCHUP, OYSTER. Beard two hundred oysters, and boil them up in a little of their liquor; drain them, and when quite dry pound them as finely as possible in a mortar. Mean- i while boil up in some spring water the beards of j the oysters, and strain this into the first oyster I liquor; boil the pounded oysters in the mixed i liquors, with some finely beaten mace and long I pepper; add to it while boiling the juice of a lemon and some salt, take it off the fire imme- diately, strain it, and bottle it for use. This ketchup, if well corked, will keep during eight months. KETCHUP, TOMATO. Boil one bushel of tomatoes until they are soft, squeeze them ' through a fine wire sieve, and add half a gallon of vinegar, a pint and a half of salt, 2 ozs. of cloves, Jib. of allspice, 3 ozs. of Cayenne pepper, three table-spoonsful of black pepper, and five heads of garlic skinned and separated. Mix these together, and boil about three houi's, or until reduced one-half, and then bottle without straining. KETCHUP, WALNUT (1). Take a hundred walnuts when a pin may be thrust through them, beat them in a mortar, and pass them through a flaniiel bag ; add to the juice three table-spoonsful of salt, and as much vinegar as will give them a sharpness; boil it in a bell- metal pan, skim it well, add mace, cloves, and nutmegs, of each J oz., and a little whole pepper, aU beaten together. When it is of the colour of claret it is done enough. When cold bottle it, and it will last for years. KETCHUP, WALNUT (2). This being a cheap and very useful ketchup, it ought to be made in great quantities. The best and quickest method is to put the shells into a hair bag, and bruise them in the press ; or the shells may be beaten in a marble mortar, or bruised with a wooden mallet, and either strew them in layers with salt, or mix them mth it with the pestle. Cover them like the mushrooms. To every quart allow sliced ginger, pepper, and allspice, of each 1 oz.; cloves and nutmegs, of each ^ oz., with less or more salt according to taste. KETCHUP, WHITE. Take a quart of white wine, a pint of elder vinegar, one quart of water, half a pint of anchovies with their liquor, ^Ib. of scraped horseradish; shallots bruised, white pepper bruised, and mace, of each 1 oz.; and nutmegs cut in quarters, J oz. Boil the whole together till half is consumed, then strain it off, and when cold bottle it for use. It is proper for any white sauce, or to put into melted butter. KETTLE. See Bain-Maeib, Coppeb Ves- sels, and Fur. KEW MINCE. Cut 1 lb. of meat from a leg of cold roasted mutton, and mince it very finely, together with 6 ozs. of suet; mix with it three or four table-spoonsful of bread crumbs, the beaten yolks of four eggs, one anchovy chopped, some pepper and salt, and half a pint of port wine; put it into a caul of veal, and bake it in a quick oven ; turn it out into a dish, and pour some brown gravy over it. Serve it with venison sauce. When a veal caul is not to be had the mince may be done in a saucepan. KEY. [See Lock.) Never throw away old keys: they may unexpectedly prove very useful. The best material for key labels is white leather, which should be sewed on the keys with their proper title. It is preferable to either parchment or wood. There is a neat con- trivance, or key case, to supersede the usual[ 100 ] KIC KID key basket, which has several advantages. The inside is furnished with divisions, and brass hooks to receive the various keys. There is a handle on the top for carrying it with ease from room to room, and a patent lock by which all the keys are secured, in case the mistress of a house is so unfortunate as not to have servants in whose honesty she can confide. KICKSHAW. Make puff paste, roll it thinly, and if you have any moulds work it on them, and make them up with preserved pippins. You may fill some with gooseberries, and others with raspberries, or what you please ; then close them up, and either bake or fry them. Throw grated sugar over them, and serve them up. KID is good eating when it is but three or four months old. Its flesh is then delicate and tender; but it is not used after it has done sucking. To be good it ought to be fat and white. It is dressed in the same manner as lamb or fawn. KID : To Roast. Take the head of a kid, prick it backwards over the shoulders, and tie it down ; lard it with bacon, and draw it with lemon-peel and thyme; then make a farce of grated bread, flour, some forcemeat minced small, beef suet, and sweet herbs; season with salt, ginger, cloves, mace, and nut- meg, and add some cream and the yolks of four eggs. Put this farce into the caul of the kid, and put it into the inside ; sew it up closely, roast it, and serve with venison sauce. KID GLOVES. See Gloves. KIDNEY BEAN SOUP. Take a handful of sorrel, chei'vil, and a lettuce; wash and drain them in a sieve, chop them very finely, and put them into a saucepan. Boil a quarter of a peck of white kidney beans, and with the broth moisten the herbs; rub one half of the beans through a sieve, and mix with the soup. When this has boiled a few minutes add the yolks of four eggs and ^Ib. of fresh butter; season to the taste, and pour it on bread cut small, and the other half of the beans. KIDNEY BEANS: To Boil. First care- fully string them, then slit them down the middle, and cut them across ; put them into salt and water, and when the water in your pan boils put them in, with a handful of salt. They will soon be done, which may be known by their feeling tender. Drain them through a sieve or cullender, and serve them up with melted butter in a boat. Vinegar is an agreeable addition, KIDNEY BEANS: To Pickle. Pour over them boiling brine, and cover them closely. The next day drain and dry them, pour over them a boiling pickle of good vinegar, Jamaica and black pepper, and a little mace and ginger. Conlinue boiling the vinegar every day till lh& beans look green. KIDNEY BEANS : To Preserve. Prepare the beans, which ought to be young and tender, by taking off the two ends, throwing aside all that are hard or blemished, and put them into fresh water. Have water with a handful of salt boiling on a quick fire, put them in, give them two boils, and turn them into cold water; drain well, and arrange them in proper lessived jars ; fill them up with strong pickle, cover them with good oil, stop them with corks, tie paper and parchment over, and put them in a cool, dry place. Serve them as new beans ; freshen, blanch, and cook them in a brass pan. KIDNEY BEANS : To Stew. Boil the beans, drain them in a sieve, and put them in a pan, with a little cream, flair, butter, pepper, and salt; let them stew gently about ten minutes, and then serve them up. KIDNEY BEANS, DRIED : To Cook. Soak the pulse for a night, and then put them in cold water to boil, with the addition of salt; let them boil gently, and if old—the older the better, so that they are sound—they vail require a considerable time to soften. Their bursting will be expedited by throwing in a cup- ful of cold water when they begin to swell, and when they burst they are done. They should be then drained dry, and placed aside for use. See Haricots. KIDNEY BEANS A LA LYONNAISE. Cut one or two onions in half rings, and put them into a frying-pan with oil. When they begin to brown put in some beans which have been cooked ; let them fry with the onions; put in hashed parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper; give a turn or two more, and dish; boil a little vinegar in a pan, and pour it over them. KIDNEY BEANS IN SALAD. Take beans already cooked, put them in a salad dish, and garnish them with strips of anchovy, an onion roasted in the ashes, beet-root, or anything properly hashed ; season Avith salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and serve. KIDNEY, BEEF (with Mustard Sauce). Fry sliced onion in butter to half, cut the kidney into small pieces, and put them to the onion in a stewpan, with pepper and salt, and stew them on a slow fire. The kidney will furnish liquor enough. Add the mustard when ready. Beef kidneys make a very good gravy. KIDNEY, BEEF, PIE. Cut some kidneys into thin slices, and place them in the bottom of your pie dish ; then sweet herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, shallots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt. Continue this till the dish is full, cover the whole with slices of bacon, finish your pie, and bake it in the oven. When done take out the bacon and skim off the fat;[ 101 ] KID KID make a sauce with a glass of white wiue, a tolerable quantity of cullis, aud reduce it to the consistence of a good sauce; then squeeze a Seville orange into it, and serve your pie hot. KIDNEY, BEEF (Sheed). Take a kid- ney, and-braise it till very tender; shred it finely, serve it upon stewed cucumbers, or any other green you like better. It should be rather highly seasoned. KIDNEY DUMPLINGS. Make your dumplings in the usual way, and put in each a mutton kidney well washed, and seasoned with pepper and salt; boil them tied in a cloth, and serve them very hot. KIDNEY OMELET. Take a fine kidney from a cold roasted loin of veal, mince and soak it well in some cream, break seven or eight eggs on it, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; beat the whole with a whisk, and fry your omelet, taking care to keep it pretty thick. KIDNEY PASTY. Roast a loin of veal, and when it is almost done take the kidney, the fat, and some of the meat, and mince it small, with the marrow of half a dozen cold veal marrow bones; season with marjoram, thyme, and winter savory cut small or pounded, a quarter of a pint of rose water, the yolks of six eggs, a little nutmeg sliced, ^ lb. of sugar, and ^ lb. of cur- rants. Mix all well together, make it up into small pasties with puff paste, and fry them in butter. KIDNEY PUDDING. Take a beef kidney, split it, soak it, and season it with pepper and salt; make a paste, put in the kidney, cover with the paste, and punch round the edge. It will take some time boiling. KIDNEY, VEAL. Chop the kidney and some of the fat; season with pepper and salt, and make it with egg and bread crumbs into balls, which fry in lard or butter ; drain upon a sieve, and serve with fried parsley. KIDNEYS. Cut them through the long way, score them, and sprinkle them over with a very little pepper and salt. In order to broil all over alike, and to keep them from curling on i the gridiron, run a wire skewer right through them. They must be broiled over a clear fire, being careful to turn them frequently till they are done. They will take about ten or twelve minutes to broil, provided they are done over a brisk fire; or if you choose you may fry them in butter, and make gravy for them in the pan by putting in a tea-spoonful of flour. As soon as it looks brown put in a sufficient quantity of water as will make gravy. They -will take five minutes longer frying than broiling. Garnish with fried parsley. You may improve them, if you think proper, by chopping a few parsley leaves very finely, mixing them with a piece of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, and then putting some of this mixture over each kidney. KIDNEYS, BEEF (A. la Bourgeoise). Take some kidneys, cut them into thin slices, and broil them, with a piece of butter, some salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, and a clove of garlic. The whole should be very fine. When they are sufficiently done take them off the fire. They should not broil too long, or they will become tough. Add when you serve them a few drops of vinegar and a little cullis. Beef kidneys may likewise be served a la braise, A^ith shallot sauce or sauce piquante. KIDNEYS, BEEF (au Saute). Cut the kidneys into pieces, and toss them in a pan with a piece of butter, some chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, salt, pepper, and a little grated nut- meg; then thicken with a pinch of flour, and moisten with half a glass of white wine and two spoonsful of Spanish sauce ; take it ofl" the fire before it boils, aud add a piece of butter and the juice of a lemon. Serve the kidneys hot, and garnish with fried bread. KIDNEYS, BEEF (with Wine Sauce). Cut the kidneys into thin slices, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them in butter, with salt, pepper, parsley, and green onions shred finely. When fried moisten thern with white wine, add a little stock, and serve. KIDNEYS. INFLAMMATION OF THE (Nephritis). The symptoms of this complaint are fever; pain in the region of the kidney, extending downwards; numbness of the leg aud thigh of the affected side, and retraction of the testicle; nausea and vomiting; high-coloured, sometimes mucous, or bloody urine; frequent desire to make water, (fcc. It terminates in resolution, abscess, or in gangrene, known by the ordinary symptoms that accompany these terminations in other parts. The common causes of inflammation of the kidneys are acrid diuretics, calculi or stones in the kidneys, external injury, long-continued and violent exercise on horseback, collections of hardened stools in the bowels (the colon), retrocedent or tonic gout, violent exertions, &c. The treatment here is the same as in other inflammations, viz., general and local bleeding, the latter by the use of cupping-glasses,- or by the application of a quantity of leeches to the region of the kidneys ; oleaginous purgatives of castor oil, manna, or oil of almonds, employed as frequently as required, e.g.:—Take castor oil, 1 oz. ; mucilage of gum arable and fennel water, of each ^ oz.; tincture of jalap, 1 drachm. Mix for a draught. Emollient and opiate clysters; mild diaphoretics, especially frequent and copious draughts of mucilaginous and diluent drinks, as barley water, decoction of majfsh-inallows, whey, and linseed tea.KID KIN [ 102 ] As an opiate clyster a drachm of the tincture of opium may be added to 4 or 5 ozs. of barley water. After bleeding, flannels wrung out of a warm 'decoction of emollient herbs, or a bladder filled with warm water, is advised to be kept con- stantly applied over the part. In this complaint blisters are improper. Those who are liable to frequent returns of this disease, or to obstruc- tions of the kidneys, should carefully guard against getting wet in the feet, as well as against all exposures to cold. They should prefer lying on mattresses to feather beds, use moderate exercise, and by no means drink any kind of wine in which tartar abounds. KIDNEYS, MUTTON, BROILED (1). Wash and dry some nice kidneys, cut them in half, and with a small skewer keep them open, in imitation of two shells; season them Tvith salt and pepper, and dip them in a little fresh melted butter. Broil first the side that is cut, and be careful not to let the gravy drop in taking them off the gridiron. Serve them in a hot dish with finely chopped parsley, mixed with melted butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, and salt, putting a little upon each kidney. KIDNEYS, MUTTON, BROILED (2). Cut each kidney in half, and remove the outward skin; run a small skewer through the flat part so as to keep them open, dip them in melted butter, and strew equal portions of salt and Cayenne pepper over them ; broil on a bright fire, placing the round side first upon the gridiron to retain the gravy. You may serve either with parsley, butter, lemon juice, and chilli vinegar, or Read- ing sauce. KING CUP. Take the rind and juice of a lemon, a lump of sugar, and a small piece of bruised ginger, and pour on them about one pint and a half of boiling water. When cold strain, and add a wine-glassful of sherry and ice. KING'S EVIL, or Sceofula, received its first name because supposed tobecurable byatouch by the sovereign's hand; and scrofula because swine are subject to it. It consists in hard, indolent tumours of certain parts of the body, but parti- cularly in the neck, behind the ears, and under the chin, which after a time suppurate and de- generate into ulcers, from which, instead of pus, a white, curdled matter, somewhat resembling the curd of milk, is discharged. It usually makes its appearance between the third and seventh year of the child's age; but it may arise at any period between this and the age of puberty, after which it seldom makes its first attack. It commonly affects children of a lax habit, with smooth fine skins, fair hair, and rosy cheeks. It is also apt to attack such children as show a disposition to rickets, marked by a protuberant forehead, enlarged joints, fre- quently a thickening of the upper lip, a tumid abdomen, &c.; and, like that disease, it seems to be peculiar to cold and variable chmates, being rarely met with in warm ones. Scrofula is by no means a contagious disease, but, beyond all doubt, is of an hereditary nature, and is often entailed by parents on their chil- dren. The treatment of scrofula consists chiefly in the use of those means which are calculated to improve the general health; e.g., a nutritious and easily digestible diet, a pure dry air, gentle exercise, the warm bath with friction, cold bathing, especially in salt water, and strengthen- ing medicines, such as the preparations of iron, myrrh, &c., but particularly the Peruvian bark, with soda. Submuriate of mercury, Ethiops mineral, Plummer's pill, antimonials, with the decoction of sarsaparilla, guaiacum, sassafras, dulcamara, and mezereon, together with the Lisbon diet drink {see Diet Drink), which consists in a combination of all these, have all been employed, but without, it appears, much seeming advan- tage. In recent cases of obstruction the submuriate of mercury, joined with tartarised antimony, &c., in the following form, has been given with ad- vantage :—Take prepared chalk in powder, 1 drachm; submuriate of mercury, from 3 to 6 grains; tartarised antimony, 2 grains. Mix, and divide into twelve papers, of which give one twice a day, keeping the bowels open with an occasional gentle purgative of calomel and rhubarb. Muriated barytes, from three to ten or twelve drops, according to the age of the person, has been given in some cases of scrofula. It is attended, however, beyond a certain dose, with unpleasant effects, as sickness, tremors, and a loss of power. Hemlock has been much employed in this disease, both in the swelling and ulcerated stage, and has been found ser\dceable on many occa- sions in dispersing swellings of a scrofulous nature, given internally, as well as employe! externally in some cases in the form of poultice and fomentation, or both, viz.:—Take extract of Peruvian bark, 2 drachms ; extract of hem- lock, 1 drachm. Mix, and make forty pills, two or three of which may be taken twice or three times a day. For a hemlock poultice in scrofulous ulcera- tion take two handsful of hemlock leaves, and boil them in a pint of water; strain, and thicken to a proper consistence with linseed- meal or oatmeal. The fomentation may be made in the same manner, with the exception of the thickening ingredients. The hemlock must be discontinued as soon as iKIR KIN [ 103 ] it begins to produce symptoms of giddiness or sickness at the stomach, and resumed when these subside, and in this manner continued for some weeks. A strong decoction of the dried leaves of colts- foot, when the juice cannot be procured in a fresh state, has been given with some effect. Another remedy which has been much em- ployed in scrofula, and not unfrequently with advantage, is burnt sponge in the form of a bolus or draught, e.g.:—Take burnt sponge, from 20 to 30 grains; rhubarb in powder, 3 grains; honey, enough to make a bolus. To be taken twice a day. Or, take burnt sponge, 1 scruple; aromatic confection, 10 grains; mint water, 1^ oz. To be taken twice a day. A mo]'e active medicine, and employed in- stead of this, although it is the basis of it, is the carbonate of soda, from 10 to 20 grains to a drachm, twice or three times a day, e.g.:—Take carbonate of soda, 6 drachms; powder of Peru- vian bark, 3 ozs.; mucilage of gum arable, enough to form an electuaiy, of which the size of a nutmeg may be taken thrice a day. Or, take carbonate of soda, ^ oz.; infusion of Peru- vian bark, 10 ozs.; compound tincture of cinna- mon, 1 oz.; syrup of orange-peel, i oz. Make a mixture, of which two table-spoonsful are to be taken three or four times a day. The sulphuric and nitric acids are much valued for their ,-irtue in the cure of this disease, and scrofulous ulcei's which had re- sisted many other remedies have healed under a weak solution of nitric acid and water; and in those sores which are spreading and irritable a watery solution of opium and hemlock, and afterwards of a solution of zinc, will be found gerviceable. Blisters applied to swellings of the glands have brought them to a quicker state of suppura- i tion than they would otherwise have done. The I stimulus of a blister, where the swelling of a gland has become indolent and stationary, rouses it to a state of renewed action, which probably may dispose it to suppurate. In some instances both blistering and electricity have, however, ! been attended with a directly contrary effect, and have occasioned the swellings to disperse—a step I which should invariably be attempted on the i first appearance of any tumour, or enlargement I of any joint, by swelling of the parts surround- ing it. The means usually employed for this purpose are local bleeding, sea water, poultices,, 1 hemlock, mercmial ointment, electricity, blisters, Ac. Sea bathing, where it can be adopted, will prove the best of all remedies. _ When the process of suppuration is suffi- ciently advanced the contents of the abscess are to be discharged at once with the lancet, if the collection be not large; if otherwise, by repeated puncturation at proper intervals, closing the orifice to prevent the access of external air, in the same manner as practised by skilful sar- geons in the treatment of an abscess of the loins, into whose hands the disease at this stage, equally as in the first, should more particularly he intrusted. KINO is a gum produced by various trees of the genus Pterocarpiis. Kino is a powerful astringent. Like catechu, it is employed in obstinate diarrhcEas, and inte)'nal bleedings ; but it is less certain in its operation than catechu. It is applied externally as a styptic, and to give tone to, and diminish the discharge of, flabby and ill-conditioned ulcers. It is given internally in substance, in the form of watery infusion, or in tincture. The dose in substance is from ten grains to half a drachm. The tincture, which is made with 1^ oz. of kino in powder, and one pint of proof spirit, macerating for fourteen days, and straining, is given in doses of from one to two drachms. It should not be forgotten that solutions of isinglass, sulphate of iron, tartarised antimony, the alkalies, the strong acids, nitrate of silver, muriate of mercuiy, and superacetate of lead, are incompatible in prescriptions with kino. KIRSCHWASSER (1). The best cherries for this pui-pose are the morello, which should be taken when quite ripe. Pick off the stalks, and put the fruit into a tub. Have some new wood ashes, and wet them so as to make a kind of mortar of them, and extend it over the cherries : these ashes in drying form a complete hard crust, which prevents any evaporation, and assists the fermentation. Leave the fruit thus for six weeks, at the end oi which time re- move the ashes, take out the pulp and juice of the cherries immediately under them, put them into the cucurbite (but not enough to fill it), and distil them. The fire during the opera- tion should be managed with great care, and increased gradually till the produce of your dis- tillation flows in a small stream, and ceasing the instant the phlegm begins to appear; then throw away the dregs from the cucurbite, put more cherries in, and distil as before. KIRSCHWASSER (2). Bruise the ker- nels of some cherries, and throw them, with their shells, into brandy; let them infuse till the season when you can add some apricot kernels without the shells, and then leave them to infuse for two months longer. You must filter off the infusion, then distil it, by which means it will become as clear as the kirsch- •wasser of the Black Forest. KIRSCHWASSER CREAM. Take three quarts of old kirschwasser, and rectify it, by which you will obtain two quarts of liquor, to which add 4 ozs. of double orange-flowerKI S r ] Ell water. Dissolve 2J lbs. of sugar in three pints of distilled river water over the fire, and when cold mix it with the kirschwasser, filter, and bottle it. KISSEL. Mix one or two pounds of wheat llo ur, with a handful of wheat bran and a little ye ast, with some water. Let it stand in a warm place for a fortnight, when the liquor is to be poured off, and the starch washed in cold water and run through a sieve. Boil this starch, while still moist, with a little cow's milk ; pour it into moulds to become solid, and eat it with cream, or wine and sugar, or mix in any sea- soning in making. There is very little differ- ence between kissel and sowens in the pre- paration, the one being made of wheat flour, and the other of oatmeal. KISSES (1). Put the whites of eight eggs and two spoonsful of orange-flower water into a china basin, and whisk till they become a firm froth ; then add i lb. of sifted sugar, stinring it in with great care by means of a spatula. That done, lay small pieces of this mixture ou white paper; make each drop about the size of a ratafia, rather conical than flat; place the paper which contains them on a piece of wood about an inch thick, and put them in a very hot overi. Watch them, and as soon as you perceive they begin to look yellowish take them out, and detach them from the paper with a knife as cautiously as possible, for they are very tender. Take a small spoon, and with the end of it re- move the moist part which is at the bottom, so as to make them a little hollow, and as you do them lay them on the wood in the oven again for a few minutes to dry. When done lay them in boxes, and keep them in a dry and warm place. If they are for table fill the hollow of each with a little whipped cream or raspberry jam ; put them together by couples, the cream or jam inside ; place them in a dish, and serve them as soon as possible. KISSES (2). Take 1 lb. of the best loaf sugar powdered and sifted, the whites of four eggs, twelve drops of essence of lemon, and a tea- cupful of currant jelly ; beat the whites of four eggs till they stand alone, then beat in gradually the sugar, a tea-spoonful at a time, add the es- sence of lemon, and beat the whole very hard. Lay a wet sheet of paper on the bottom of a square tin pan; drop on it, at equal distances, a small tea-spoonful of stifl" cm-rant jelly ; and with a large spoon pile some of the beaten white of egg and sugar on each lump of jelly, so as to entirely coyer it. Drop ou the mixture as evenly as possible, so as to make the kisses of a round, smooth shape; set them in a cool oven, and as soon as they are coloured they are done; ihen take them out, and place their two bottoms together ; lay them lightly on a sieve, and dry them in a cool oven till the two bottoms stick fast together, so as to form one ball or oval. KITCHEN. For the following very sensible directions we are indebted to " The Magazine of Domestic Economy " and Mrs. Parkes' " Household Duties:"— The kitchen is a most important apartment in every house, and, being chiefly used for the preparation of food, it should be furnished with everything necessary to enable the cook to per- form her duties. It should be as lofty and as well lighted as circumstances will allow. This is a most important point, and should be at- tended to in all houses. In small houses it is especially necessary, as low kitchens are gene- rally dark, and light is essential both to clean- liness and comfort. In most parts of England the kitchen is in the basement story, or on the ground floor; but in the city of London, where the counting-house or shop is on the ground floor, the kitchen is often on the second or third floor, which is attended with the great advantage of preventing any kitchen smells from escaping into the place of business. In Genoa and many other towns in Italy the kitchen is in the upper story of the house, the floor, in these cases being generally laid with tiles. This practice is con- venient for the escape of smells, but very incon- venient in almost every other respect. It would scarcely answer for being introduced into Britain, unless we could be induced to adopt the French mode of cooking, and use only charcoal as fuel. It might, however, do where cooking was per- formed by gas, which it might be, with great economy and cleanliness, wherever there are public gas establishments. Sometimes the kitchen is on the same floor with the dining- room, but detached from the house, and vmder a flat roof covered with lead, or what is termed in London a lead flat. When this is the case the flat should be pugged (stuffed between the roof and the ceiling with some non-conducting sub- stance) and ventilated, so as to keep out the intense heat, which would othenvise penetrate the lead. Where practicable the kitchen should look to the north or the north-east, as should all those domestic ofiices which require to be kept cool. When the kitchen is under ground, as is fre- quently the case in England, particularly in large towns, this is not of so much consequence; but it should always be as near as possible to the dining-room. A kitchen should always be dry. The walls must, therefore, be preserved from damp, if the kitchen is under ground, by building them in cement at least as high as the level of the floor; and, where ground outside is against any of the walls, it may be necessary to build an inner wall, one brick thick, and hollow, against theKIT [ 1 outer wall; or to build a dry area, carried down below the level of the floor of the kitchen, which area should be ventilated and drained. The floor should be of rubbed Yorkshire stone, laid on brick walls, at least two courses of bricks high above the ground. If the foundation is damp, concrete a foot or two thick, composed of clean gravel and fresh-burned stone-lime, should be thrown in first, to form a foundation on which the walls should be built. To keep the floor dry air should be introduced, and made to cir- culate freely under it, for which purpose air- gratings should be fixed in all the outward walls, and openings for the air to pass through left in all the walls on which the paving is laid. The ceilings of all kitchens, however small, should be lathed on the under side of the joists, and plastered; for if this is not done, and only the space between the joists plastered, the effluvia arising from the cooking collect and remaim between the joists, in spite of all the ventilation that can be given: the spaces be- tween the joists also afford shelter for flies, spiders, &c. As the ceilings of kitchens should be scraped, cleaned, and whitened (or coloured) every year, the expense of plastering is soon repaid by the diminution of the surface, the sides of the joists making a surface of one and a half times more than the whole ceiling. The kitchen doors should always be made to open towards the fireplace, otlierwise the opening and shutting of them will be likely to cause the chimney to smoke by disturbing the current of the air. The fireplace should be capacious in pro- portion to the quantity of cooking required; and it should be from four feet to eight or nine feet wide, and never less than two bricks and a half, or one foot ten inches and a half deep. Large fireplaces should be from two feet three inches to two feet seven inches and a half in depth; the range can then have a proper boiler at the back, supplied with water by a pipe from the main cistern, and regulated by a small feed- ing cistern, so that the boiler will be always full of water. Where this plan is adopted there will be a supply of hot, if not boiling water, at night as well as all day. In lai-ge kitchens there should be a hot plate and stoves for made dishes and preserves on one side of the fireplace, and a boiler on the other. These should be covered over, at the height of six or seven feet, by a projection or canopy from the wall, open in front, and communicating with a flue for carry- ing off the steam and effluvia from the meat. There should be one or two large closets in the kitchen in a very diy situation, from three feet to four feet wide, and at least eighteen inches deep, for holding spices and other things that may be wanted by the cook. 5 ] KIT The principal articles of furniture required in a kitchen are, a table as large as the size of the apartment will allow, and made very strong, and a dresser or dressers. The tops of these dressers should be two inches thick, and the drawers about two feet wide, and seven inches in depth. The space under the drawers is some- times inclosed with doors, and sometimes open, having a pot board the whole width and length of the dresser, and raised three or four inches from the floor. There should be good locks on one or two of the drawers, and two iron or japanned handles fixed on each. A mill for coffee, one for pepper, and another for the finer spices, may be fixed to the ends of the dressers. Ranges of rails, furnished with hooks, should be fixed to the wall for the dish covers; and round or jack-towel rollers should be attached to the backs of the doors. There should be an ash-grate and pit made under the fireplace, that the ashes may drop through the ash-grate into the pit, an^ leave the cinders over it, which may thus be taken up and thrown on the fire without making any dust. A good kitchen range has the oven on one side of the fire, and the boiler of hot water on the other, or behind it, so as to be entirely out of sight. This should be fed with water from a cistern with a ball-cock, in order that it may be ready for use at a minute's warning. Formerly a cook had the separate fires of her oven and boiler to attend to, but now one fire is sufficient to keep the whole range in use. These grates are calculated for moderate-sized families, and are to be had of different sizes, according to the cooking any family may require. For very large families the steam kitchen is extremely convenient. It saves fuel, keeps the kitchen cool, and even banishes from it the appearance and smell of cooking, while the cook is enabled to prepare for table a greater number of dishes than could be done with a single fire without some contrivance of this kind. We have also seen a cooking apparatus which combines even more advantages than the steam kitchen. In the centre of this apparatus is the stove, upon which is a cast-iron plate or table. This plate supports another, in which there are seven or eight ciixular holes, with oast-iron covers to them. These holes are of different sizes, and into which there are saucepans to fit. When the contents of any saucepan are required to boil the cover is taken from the hole, and the saucepan is put into it, and thus receives the whole heat of the cast-iron plate below. If, on the contrary, only stewing or gentle simmering be needful, the cover is not removed from the hole, but the saucepan is placed upon it, and thereby receives only a moderate degree of heat,I 106 J "KLO On one sicte of fhis liot plate is the boiler, heated by a flue from the fire; the same flue is carried on to the roaster, which resembles an oven (except in having valves to admit currents of aix), by which contrivance the meat is made as brown as if it were roasted before a blazing fire: these currents of air also prevent the meat thus cooked from having the taste of the oven. When the valves are closed the roaster may be used as an oven. Above the roaster is a closet heated by the same flue, and in this baking may proceed when the roaster is othenvise employed. This is the desci-iption of one side of the fire; on the other there is a steam apparatus, supplied with steam from the boiler. This is admirably cal- culated for making soups, boiling meat, hams, and poultry. Potatoes may also be boiled well by steam ; but green vegetables are better boiled in water, the colour being injured by the steam; and this is the reason why vegetables always look better when boiled in pump water. Alter serving this apparatus the steam is carried on to heat another cast-iron plate, or table, upon which the cook is to dish her dinner, and which enables her to send it up with little or no diminution of heat. A dinner is spoiled if it be sent up chilled, which evil this hot table cannot but avert; and therefore it must excite the admiration, and even gratitude of all the lovers of the table. Beneath this plate is another hot closet, furnished with shelves, where such dishes may be kept hot as are not to be sent imme- diately to table. There are two or three particulars relative to the kitchen which require attention, and are preventives of much inconvenience. Have it well ventilated. Have a dial in it agreeing exactly with that in the hall. Have its chimney freauently swept. itLOES DE BERLIN. Melt i lb. of butter until it rises, then mix with it by degrees the yolks of six eggs and four whites, some salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and three glasses of milk; add sufficient flour to form a paste, dip a spoon into hot water, and take up enough of this paste to make balls of a middling size ; throw them into boiling water, and leave them eight or ten minutes ; then take them out of the water with a skimmer, dress them on a dish garnished with fried potatoes, and serve them with a sauce of bread crumbs browned in Lutter. KLUSKIS WITH CURIAM dHEESE. Mix I- lb. of butter, six eggs, six large spoonsful of cream cheese, nutmeg, salt, sugar, crumb of bread, and some cream, and make into balls with flour; boil tliera in salt and water, drain them, brash them over with browned butter, and serve. KLUSKIS OF FRIED MEAT. Chop up finely the lean of fresh pork, and mix with it some bread soaked in wine and drained, some lemon-peel, salt, and pepper. Of these make some small, flattened balls, which cover with bread crumbs, and fry. KLUSKIS OF PASTE PELLETS. Male a rather thick paste of flour, hot water, eggs (a little warmed), some yeast, salt, and sugar; put it in a hot place to make it rise, and with the fingers break off some pieces to make into pellets, which also leave to rise; then boil them in salt and water, brush them over with browned butter, and serve. KNEE-CAP SLIPPING. See Dislocation OF Patella. KNIFE BOARD. It should consist of m inch deal board five feet long, with a hole about an inch in diameter at one end, by which it is to be hung up in some convenient nook in a back kitchen out of the way when not in use. At the same end, i.e., at the left hand, and close to the front edge, is to be fastened a stiff brush, like one that is used for shoes, for the purpose of cleaning the forks between the prongs—a tedious process, and therefore frequently slighted. At the other end there is fastened a box, with the end open towards the hands, and a sliding lid. This box is the width of the board, and, of course, larger than a Bath brick; and in it are deposited the said iadispensable Bath brick, with sundry leathers for forks and " coppers," and into which an occasional pair of soft old gloves is thrown, to save the unnecessaiy blackening of the servant's hands while she is employed in cleaning the warming-pan, &c. These sundries are all shut in, and hung up with the board, and thus is neatness in this department well pre- served. KNIFE CLEANER. {See Footman.) This apparatus is no less simple than efficacious. Take two pieces of wood, shaped as in the woodcut, seven inches long each, allowing three inches and a haK for the length of the handles, three inches broad, and one inch thick. Get a piece of thick leather, as a, and glue it down to the two boards in such a way as to leave a space between them, to act as a hinge. Cover this leather with a solution of sour ale, or water thickly mixed with coarsish emery powder; let it dry, and the apparatus is fit for use. Close the two boards together, so as to have the leather between them; place the knife on the under one, and, pressing vdth. the left hand on theKNI [ 107 ] KNI handle of the upper one—moderating the pres- sure as required—draw the knife briskly back- wards and forwards. In a short time it will be polished of a beautiful silvery white. To clean it further a similar machine, with buff leather, but no powder, might be used. KNITTING. Teems Used. Purl stitch, seam stitch, and rib stitch are terms signifying the same, namely, to pass the material before the pin, putting the pin under instead of over the upper thread. Thread forward is to bring it between the pins towards you. To increase in a fancy stitch is by bringing the thread forward. Thread twice round the pin, same as thread forward twice. Let one off is to drop one of the stitches that you have made in a former row by putting the thread twice round the pin. To slip a stitch is to pass it from one needle to another without knitting it. To take under is to pass the right-hand pin through the stitch on the left-hand one, still keeping the same side of the stitch towards you. A plain row. Simple knitting. To fasten on wool in plain knitting lay the two ends contrariwise, and knit a few stitches with both together; but with silk or any less elastic material, whsn knitting a fancy pattern, a weaver's knot is more secure. To decrease is to knit two stitches as one. 2^0 increase in plain knitting is to make a stitch by knitting in the usual way ; then, with- out taking it off the pin, knit another from the back. A turn means two rows. Brioche stitch. Wool forward, slip one under, knit two together. Decreasing in brioche stitch. Wool forward, slip one, knit five into one. Increasing in brioche stitch. Having knitted a rib, do not take it off the pin, but wool forward, slip one stitch, and knit the other. In casting on the stitches, being provided with a ball of worsted, or cotton and needles, take a length of the worsted in the right hand, putting it once round the little finger, passing it under the next two fingers, and bringing it over the forefinger; and then take one of the knitting-needles between the finger and thumb. Then take the end of the length of worsted in the left hand, and twist it round the little finger, bringing it over the thumb and round the two forefingers, so as to form a loop. Then put the needle under the lower worsted of the loop, and. bring it above that which goes over the first finger. Next pass the worsted which is over the forefinger of the right hand under the needle, bring the needle down ttrotigh the loop, draw the worsted tightly in the left hand, and thus the stitch is completed. The stitches having been cast on, next take another needle, put it through the stitch, turn the worsted over the needle, take up the worsted turned over, let off the under loop, and then knit in the end of the worsted with the first three stitches. In knitting a stocking you require three needles for casting on, and one for knitting. Cast on the same number of stitches on two of the needles, and one more on the third needle, because there must always be an odd stitch for the seam. For a man's stock- ing cast on from thirty-six to forty stitches on each of the three needles, forming a triangle, and using the fourth needle to work with round and round. Form the seam stitch by parting a stitch in the middle of one of the needles every alternate row. Make the leg of the stocking before you narrow it two-eighths and a half long, or from eleven to twelve or thirteen inches. Narrow or decrease for the ankle by knitting two stitches togetlier on each side of the seam stitch; then knitting eight rows, and decreasing two stitches again; then every six rows, then eveiy four rows, and then eveiy two rows, until there are only from eighty-five to eighty-seven around, when the leg will be of a sufficient length ; that is, from five - eighths to six- eighths and a half. Make the heel one-eighth long. Now divide the stitches into two equal parts—one part for the heel, the other for the instep. Secure the stitches for the instep on one needle, to remain untouched till the heel is finished. Thus the heel is now on two needles, the seam stitch running through the centre of the heel, which is to be knitted open ; that is, with every alternate row parted. Having knitted about two inches, round the heel by de- creasing a stitch at each side of the seam stitch—first every third row, then every second, then every row—about four times, always decreasing on the right side of the stocking. Having knitted to the middle of the needle, close the heel by placing the needles together, and casting off the stitches. When the heel is closed there are three needles at liberty: with two of them pick up the stitches around the heel, and with the fourth, using the instep stitches, commence and continue knitting round until the foot is nearly the sufficient length. Before beginning to narrow for the toe make the foot two-eighths long; then divide the stitches into two equal parts, knitting two stitches together at the beginning and end of each half; knit round until there are only fourteen stitches left, and then close. If the stocking be ribbed, after casting on the stitches knit one round plain,KO U [ 308 ] KNI and then rib Ironi six to ten rounds, or more if approved, according to the size of the stocking, or the coarseness of the worsted. Form the ribs by turning two or tliree stitches, and knit- ting the same number plain. The use of the ribs is to keep the top of the stocking from turning down. Chikh'en's socks require to be ribbed at least two inches deep, as the ribbing gives elasticity to the tops, and so prevents them from falling. As a general rule, the length of a stocking before the nari'owings should be at least equal to twice the width of the top, so that as many I'ounds should be knitted as will correspond with the number of loops on the needles. For tall persons a still greater length would, of course, be necessary. A full-sized stocking is reduced by narrowing nearly one-third part, and a child's stocldng not quite so much as one-third part. Socks for children do not require narrowing except at the instep. To knit an infant's boot begin at the sole, and knit backwards and forwards, as though knitting a garter, so far as to reach the ankle. By this means rather less than one-half of the stitches are left on a spare needle ; and the re- maining stitches should be knitted backwai'ds and forwards as before, until sufficiently wide to reach across the upper part of the foot, Next cast on the same number of stitches as are on the spare needle, and make the two sides correspond in all respects. Raise and knit the stitches across the instep along with those on the side needles until you have added the proper length of the leg. Finish by casting one loop over another until all are off, and then sewing up the sole and the back of the leg; lastly, pass a thread through the toe, and draw it together to a point. Give the required roundness to the heel by widening and narrowing. When you are per- fectly acquainted with the art of knitting a stocking you would knit various other things upon the same principle, such as gloves, mit- tens, men's inside waistcoats with sleeves, children's woollen leggings, with garter fronts, and the ]ike.—{Finchley Needlework Manual.) KNITTING, SCOTCH, is performed with only one needle, and that must have a hook at one end, and there never must be more than one stitch on the needle at a time. To begin the work, take one end of the worsted or cotton in the left hand, and with the right hand place another part of the thread over it in the form of a loop. Draw the thread through this loop, and make as many loops as you may require stitches. When these loops are drawn rather closely to- gether the work will appear like chain stitch ; then knit the first and last loops together to join them. To do this pass the needle through a stitch on the side which is next to you, and then turn the thread over the hook, and draw it through the loop ; then make another stitch, and draw it through the loop in the same manner. Thus you have a second stitch upon the needle, which must be drawn through the first stitch, so as to have only one stitch on the needle, and so proceed with every remaining stitch round and round. You widen by knit- ting two stitches in one loop, and you narrow by taking two stitches on the needle, and knit- ting them as one. You can make an alteration in the pattern by passing the needle into the stitches on the side farthest from you. It might be adopted either to diversify the general appearance of an article, or for the purpose of finishing off its edges neatly. This description of knitting is very fi'equently employed for in- fants' woollen or cotton shoes or boots; and braces or suspenders may also be knitted in this manner, and rendered more elastic by knit- ting one stitch, and slipping the next upon the needle without knitting, casting the thread over it to the next succeeding stitch. In the follow- ing row this stitch and its loop should be knitted together, and the stitches which were knitted before should be slipped, and have a loop formed over them. This is something like what is known as the " crochet stitch."—(Fincldeij Needlework Manual.) KOUMISS, or Milk Wine Put into a wooden vessel as much mare's milk as you re- quire. It must be of the same day's milking. Add to it one-sixth part of water off the boil, and throw into it about an eighth part of old koumiss kept on purpose; or, if you have none, the same quantity of cow's milk in the sourest possible state. Cover the vessel with several folds of coarse, thick linen cloth, over which put a couple of boards that will rest upon the edge of the tub ; let it remain in a moderately warm place without being stirred or touched until the milk has become thoroughly sour, and a thick mass appears at the surface. This will occupy from fifteen to twenty-four hours. With a piece of wood, broad at the bottom, the whole must then be beaten until the curd is not only broken, but so mixed with the fluid around it as to form a thick liquor. Let it now remain covered and at rest during twenty-four hours more ; then put it into a common butter churn, and beat it until the liquid is perfectly blended into homo- geneousness. It is now fit for use, though it is better after having been made a few days. It would now yield on distillation nearly a third of its bulk in a weak spii'it, which will bear rectification. Whenever the koumiss is used it must be previously agitated, so that its com- ponent parts may be well mixed and taken' to- gether. The koumiss may be kept in casks, or in pans for immediate use, and if placed in[ 109 ] KKE LAO a cool cellar will remain good for three or four months. KREOSOTE. See Creosote. KRINGLES. Beat well the yolks of eight and the whites of two eggs, and mix with 4 ozs. of butter just warmed. With this knead 1 lb. of flour and 4 ozs. of sugar to a paste ; roll into thick biscuits; prick them, and bake on tin plates. L. LABELLING. Every key should have a white leather or a parchment label attached ; and all papers and linen should be arranged in labelled partitions, so as to be easily referred to. A writer, who understood what he wrote about, makes the following remarks :— First, as regards papers. These, as soon as delivered, are thrown into a drawer appropriated for their reception, which is marked " to label." Once or twice a month, or whenever a leisure hour occurs, they are folded, indorsed on the back, and then transferred to another (adjoin- ing) drawer, marked " to sort." When a sufficient quantity is accumulated the next process is to arrange them in separate bundles of a convenient size, and to enter their title, number, and position in a book divided into compartments of the alphabet; in fact, a general index. The first column on the left hand in this index-book denotes the letter which distinguishes the bundle, such as A or AC, and which distinguishing mark is pasted on the outer end of the wrapper which incloses it; the second column denotes the number of the particular paper; next comes the title of the particular document; and finally, in the last column, the position in which the bundle is stowed is described; all the entries, except the title, being in pencil, so as to afford facility of removal. It is by no means necessary to place the letters or papers having reference to each other in the same parcel, for this can be done at some future opportunity, such as a wet or leisure day. Our plan is to go on making new bundles, without reference to such arrangement, and when the collection in our second drawer assumes the appearance of being sufficient to form a parcel of convenient bulk, we proceed to mark and tie them up as follows :—Supposing the last bundle disposed of, and stowed in the position where it is intended to remain, to have been labelled AC, we now commence with AD, and taking the first letter or other paper that comes to hand, which we find to be indorsed " Painting outside, particulars of Mr. Arm- strong's estimate for 1841," we mark that paper with a pencil in the corner AD 1, and, turning to the letter P in the index-book, make the following entry, beginning at the left-hand column:—AD 1, "Painting, &c."—■ Second shelf—^bookcase^—^back parlour. If we have any doubt about the distinctness of the indorsement we enter it also in the letter A, as, "Armstrong, Mr., estimate for outside paint- ing." Proceeding thus to the next paper, which is marked No. 2, and so on, until the parcel attains a convenient size, we tie it up neatly in brown paper, and paste or wafer on the end its label AD, then stomng it in its assigned place with the label exhibited. By this arrangement any required document can be found immediately, and a reference to the index will, moreover, remove uncertainty as to whether we have it or not; for it frequently occurs that considerable time and trouble are expended in searching for papers that have been destroyed. It is necessary to observe that, whenever a paper is abstracted from its parcel, a note must be made of the circumstance in a blank space left for this purpose to the right hand in the index-book. The same arrangement is adopted for books, linen, glass, china, and, in fact, for every article not in constant use, and its utility is remarkably apparent when applied to a garden.—{Magazine of Domestic Economy.) LAC is a resinous secretion from an East Indian insect. Coccus lacca, and has received vai'ious names, according to the different states in which it is obtained. The stick-lac is the wax adhering to the smaller branches of the tree, and which is unprepared. This is first separated from the twigs to which it is attached, and after being grossly powdered, and divested of its colour by digesting it in certain liquors, is called seed-lac. When the stick-lac is melted over a moderate fire, then freed from its im- purities, and formed into cakes, it is denomi- nated lump-lac. The last species is termed shellac, and is prepared by liquefying, strain- ing, and reducing tlie cells into thin transparent plates, in a manner peculiar to the natives of India. Lac is applied to various purposes of orna- ment and utility. Considerable quantities are used in the making of sealing-wax, in japan- ning, for varnish, and in painting. It also imparts a fine red colour to silk and cotton, when these have previously been immersed in a weak decoction of the bark known among dyers by the name of load. Lac is likewise of service as a medicine, for which purpose the stick-lac is in great esteem on the continent, especially for relaxed and spongy gums, arising from cold, or from a scor- butic habit. With this intention it is either boiled in water, with the addition of a littleI 110 J LAO LAC alum for promoting its solution, or it is used in the form of a tincture, prepared with rectified spirit: the latter has a grateful odour, and a bitterish, astringent, though not unpleasant taste, and is chiefly recommended in scorbutic and rheumatic disorders. LACE. Nottingham is the emporium of the English lace trade, and it is there exclusively made by machinery, which has entirely super- seded that made on cushions by hand, and known as j^iUow lace. The machine-made lace is now confined to point net, warp net, and holbin net, so called from the peculiar con- structions of the machines by which they were produced. There were various other descrip- tions made, viz., two plain net, square or tuck- knotted net, fish-mesh net, and the platted or Arling's net; but they are now discontinued. The most celebrated foreign laces are as follow:— 1. Brussels, the most valuable. There are two kinds : Brussels ground, having a hexagon mesh, formed by platting and twisting four threads of flax to a perpendicular line of mesh. Brussels wire - ground, made of silk; meshes partly straight and partly arched. The pattern is worked separately, and set on by the needle. 2. Mechlin. A hexagon mesh, formed of three flax threads twisted and platted to a perpen- dicular line or pillar. The pattern is worked in the net. 3. Valenciennes. An irregular hexagon formed of two threads, partly twisted and platted at the top of the mesh. The pattern is worked in the net similarly to Mechlin lace. 4. Lille. A diamond mesh, formed of two threads platted to a pillar. 5. Alengon (called blond), hexagon of two threads, twisted similarly to Buckingham lace ; considered the most inferior of any made on the cushion. 6. Alengon point, formed of two threads to a pillar, with octagon and square meshes alter- nately. The French nets made by machinery are :— 1. Single piress point, called, when not orna- mented, tulle, and when ornamented, dentelle, made of silk, is an inferior net, but attractive from the beautiful manner in which it is stiffened. 2. Trico Berlin, so called from being invented at Berlin, and the stitch being removed three needles from its place of looping. It is fanciful and ornamental in appearance, but not in de- maud in England. 3. Fleur de tulle, made from the wai-p lace machine ; mesh of two descriptions, which gives a shaded appeai'ance to the net. 4. Tulle Anglois is double-pressed point lace. Bobbin net, Warp net, 'principally made by English emigrants who have settled m France. drling's lace is made in England, and has a peculiar glaze imparted to it by having all loose fibres singed off by being passed swiftly over a flame. To wash lace and babies' caps. Put them to soak twelve hours in cold water: then soak them twelve hours in boiling v/ater, then again in cold water, soaping them well each time. As they dry pull out the lace, and iron them before they are quite dry. They will then re- quire no starch, but look like new lace. To clean and starch point lace. Fix the lace in a prepared tent, draw it straight, make a warm lather of Castile soap, and with a fine brush dipped in rub the point gently. When it is clean on one side do the same to the other; then throw some clean water on it, in which a little alum has been dissolved, to take off the suds, and, having some thin starch, go over with the same on the wrong side, and iron it on the same side when dry; then open it with a bodkin, and set it in order. To clean point lace, if not very dirty, without washing, fix it in a tent as before, and go over it with the crumb of fine bread, rubbing gently : when done dust out the crumbs. LACE, GOLD AND SILVER. To cUan it sew the lace in linen cloth, boil it in a pint of water and 2 ozs. of soap, and then wash it in water. When it is tarnished apply a little warm spirits of wine to the tarnished part. To separate the metal from the lace without burning it, let the lace be first cut to pieces, tied up in a linen cloth, and boiled in soap lye till its size be considerably diminished. The cloth is now to be taken out of the liquid, rinsed repeatedly in cold water, and beaten with a mallet, in order to extract the alkaline par- ticles. On opening the linen the metallic part of the lace will be found pm'e and undinainished, while it retains its natui'al brightness. LACKERING is the laying on metals coloured or transparent varnishes, to produce the appearance of a different colour in the metal, or to preserve it from rust. Lackering is employed where brass receives the appearance of being gUt; where tin is made to assume the resemblance of yellow metals; and where brass work is to be protected against the corrosion of the air or moisture. Seed-lac is the principal substance used for the com- position of lackers; but for coarser purposes resin or turpentine is added, to make the lacker cheaper. Laceeb foe Beass to imitate Gilding. Take 1 oz. of turmeric; saffron and SpanishLAO LAM C 111 ] , arnotto, each 2 drachms. Put them into a hottle with a pint of highly rectified spirits of wine, place them in a moderate heat, shaking the bottle often for several days, and there will i then be obtained a strong yellow tincture, which must he strained off from the dregs through a coarse linen cloth; put hack this tincture into the bottle, add 3 ozs. of good seed-lac powdered grossly, place the mixture again in a moderate heat, and shake it till the seed-lac be dissolved. The lacker is then strained and put into a well- corked bottle. The arnotto is increased in proportion where it is desired to have the lacker warmer or redder than this composition, and diminished where it is wanted cooler or nearer a true yellow. This lacker, properly managed, is extremely good, and of moderate price ; hut the following, which is cheaper, is not greatly inferior to it, I and may be made where the Spanish arnotto can- ' not be procui'ed good :—Take 1 oz. of turmeric j root (ground), and half a drachm of the best I dragon's blood. Put them to one pint of spirits i of wine, and proceed as above ; and the varnish ' may be rendered of a redder or truer yellow I cast by diminishing the proportion of dragon's I blood. Saffron is sometimes used to form the body of colour in this lacker instead of the I turmeric: it makes a warmer but more ex- i pensive yellow, and, as turmeric has the advan- I tage in forming a much stronger tinge in spirits of wine, it receives the preference. Aloes and gamboge are also sometimes used in lackers for brass. Aloes are not necessary where turmeric or saffron is used; and the gamboge, though a strong juice in water, affords but a weak tinge in spirits of wine. -Lackek foe Tin to imitate a Yellow Metal. Take 1 oz. of turmeric root, 2 drachms of dragon's blood, and 1 pint of spirits of wine; add a sufficient quantity of seed-lac. Lacker for Locks, &c. Seed-lac varnish alone, or with a little dragon's blood; or a compound varnish of equal parts of seed-lac and resin, with or without the dragon's blood. Gold-coloured Lacker for Gilding Lea- ther. The gilt leather used for screens, room borders, &c., is leather covered with silver leaf, and lackered with the following composition:— Take 4^ lbs. of fine white resin, of common resin the same quantity, 2i lbs. of gum san darach, and 2 lbs. of aloes. Bruise those which are in great pieces, mix them together, put them into an earthen pot over a good charcoal fire, or any fire without flame. Melt all the in- gredients, stirring them well with a spatula, that they may be thoroughly mixed, and pre- vented also from sticking to the bottom of the pot. When they are perfectly melted and mixed add gradually to them seven parts of linseed oil, and stir the whole with the spatula. Make the liquid boil, stirring it all the time, to prevent the sediment from sticking to the bottom of the vessel. When the varnish has boiled seven or eight hours add gradually i oz. of litharge, or i oz. of red-lead, and when they are idissolved pass the varnish through a linen cloth or flannel bag. The way of know- ing when the varnish is sufficiently boiled is by taking a little on some instrument, and if it draws out and is ropy, and sticks to the fingers, drying on them, it is prepared. Lacker may be cleaned by rubbing it gently with a paste made of the following materials :— Starch, i oz.; rotten-stone in very fine powder, 6 ozs.; sweet oil, 1 oz.; oxalic acid, i oz.; water, enough to make a thin paste. LADY'S MAID. {See Female Servants.) Her duties are to keep in order her mistress's apartment, the housemaid only entering it for cleaning purposes ; to mend her clothes, and get them ready for the washerwoman ; to get up the finest articles herself; to attend her mistress throughout her toilet at any time of the day, and to dress her mistress's hair. Not to render herself ridiculous by dressing above her station. To pack her mistress's luggage when about to undertake and during a journey. She takes her meals in the servants' hall or housekeeper's room. She should avoid gossiping, and never betray family matters. LAIT DE POULE. Mix the yolks of two eggs with 1 oz. of powder sugar and some orange-flower water until the eggs whiten, pour in a glass of hot water, and boil up the mixture. LAIT SUCRE. Boil a pint of milk, sweeten with white sugar, and flavour with lemcja. LAMB. Though lamb is to be had generally throughout the year, the prime season, or that for the house lamb, is from Christmas to March. Grass lamb comes in about the latter part of April, or the beginning of May, and continues till the end of August. Lamb is a delicate and tender meat; but it requires to be kept a few days when the weather will permit, and should be thoroughly cooked to be healthful. Never take lamb or veal from the spit till the gravy that drops is white. The fore-quarter of lamb consists of the shoulder, the neck, and the breast together. The hind-quarter is the leg and loin. There are also the head and pluck, the fry sweetbreads, skirts, and liver. In choosing the fore-quarter the vein in the neck should be ruddy, and of a bluish colour. In the hind-quarter the knuckle should feel stiff, the kidney small, and perfectly fresh. To keep it the joints should be carefully wiped every day, and in warm weather sprinkled with a little salt.LAM t il2 i LAM The fore-quarter is the prime joint, and if weighing 10 lbs. will require about two hours' roasting. In serving remove the shoulder from the ribs, put between them a lump of butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, lemon or Seville orange juice, and when the butter is melted take off the shoulder, and put it into another dish. A hind-quarter of 8 lbs. will require from one hour and three quarters to two hours' roasting. A leg of lamb of 6 lbs. will require an hour ".nd a half roasting. A shoulder of lamb, an hour. Kibs, from an hour to an hour and a quarter. Loin of 4 lbs., an hour. Neck of 3 lbs., three quarters of an hour. Breast, three quarters of an hour. The carcass of lamb is cut up into the follow- ing parts: — 1. Leg. 2. Best end of loin. r- - ^ 3. Chump end of loirii - 4. Best end of breast. 5. The neck. 6. The shoulder. 7. The breast. LAMB : To Carve. See Carvtng. LAMB : To Collar. Slit the under side of a leg of lamb, take out the bone, and fill up the part with the kidney and some of its fat finely sliced; season the whole with pepper and thyme; roll and tie it up tightly, as in other collars. LAMB: To Keep. The fat should all be taken out from the chine, also the pipe that runs along the back-bone, and two small kernels near the tail; then sprinkle the inside with salt. In the fat of the leg there is a kernel, which must be taken out, and the place filled with salt. No joint keeps longer than the neck ; but the pipe along the chine-bone must be cut out, and the whole rubbed dry with a clean cloth. Inside the shoulder, also, there is a kernel, which must be removed, and the part rubbed with salt. Tl)e skirt of the breast must be taken off, and the whole wiped dry. LAMB : To Roast. The hind-quarter of lamb usually weighs from 7 lbs. to 10 lbs. This size will take about two hours to roast it. Have a brisk fire. It must be very frequently basted while roasting, sprinkled with a little salt, and dredged all over with flour about half an hour before it is done. LAMB BAKED WITH RICE. Half roast either a neck or loin of lamb, and then cut it into steaks. Boil ^ lb. of rice in water for ten minutes, and put to it a quart of good gravy, with some nutmeg and two or three blades of mace. Stew over a slow fire or stove till the rice begins to thicken, take it off, stir in lib. of butter, and when quite melted add the yolks of sis eggs finely beaten; butter a dish all over, put a little pepper and salt to the steaks, dip them in melted butter, and lay them in the buttered dish; pour upon them the gravy that comes from them, and then the rice ; pour over the yolks of three eggs finely beaten, and send it to the oven. Rather more than half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. LAMB, BLANQUETTE OF. Roast a leg of lamb, and when cold take off all the skin and nerves, and cut it into pieces, all the same size and thickness ; cut off the angles so as to make them nearly round, beat them with the handle of a knife, and put them into a saucepan, with some fried mushrooms, four ladlesful of veloute travaille, and a little pepper; set the saucepan on the fire for a few minutes, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, make it quite hot, and serve the blanquette with sippets. LAMB, BREAST OF (Cold). Bone breast of lamb, then have a good forcemeat of fat livers, truffles, &c., the same as for raise pies, and an omelet made of the white of eggs and of the yolks coloured with spinach juice When cold cut them in long strips, first laying some forcemeat, then sUps of omelet, with few truffles between, and likewise some fat livers; then spread all over with the force meat, roll it in a napkin, and stew it very gently for three or four hours. When done let it remain in the liquor till cold ; then take it out and let it stand for two days before you cut it trim it well, lay it in a dish, and garnish it with a spice jelly minced and scattered round it. LAMB, BREAST OF (with Cucumbers) Cut the chine-bone off from the breast, and put it to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones will draw out put it on the gridiron to grill and then serve in a dish of nicely stewed cucumbers. LAMB, BREAST OF (with Peas). Braise a breast of lamb, and then having taken out the small bones, flatten it. When cold cut it into small pieces, and put them into the braise to heat; drain and glaze them, and serve with peas prepared as follows poured over them :— Put some young peas into water, with a little fresh butter; drain and put them into a sauceLAM [ 113 ] LAM pan, with a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley, and green onions; stew them gently over a slow fire, and reduce them with two spoonsful of Espagnole and a little sugar. If you wish this dish white use sauce tournee for the peas instead of Espagnole. LAMB, BREAST OF (Rolled in a Ra- gout). Take a breast of lamb that is cut rather broad, take out the bones, spread it well with veal forcemeat, roll it up, tying it well with packthread, and let it stew gently in some good braise. When well stewed take it out, put it in a moderate oven, and glaze it two or three times; then have a good ragout ready, pour it into a dish, and lay the lamb upon it. LAMB CHOPS. Cut a neck or loin of lamb into chops, rub them over with the beaten yolk of an egg, dip them into grated bread, mixed with plenty of chopped parsley, and sea- son with lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Fry them a light brown in good dripping, make a sauce with the trimmings, and thicken it with butter rolled in flour; add a little lemon pickle and mushroom catsup, and garnish with fried pars- ley. They may be served with or without the gravy. LAMB CHOPS, BROILED. Cut a lorn or best end of the neck into chops, flatten them, and cut off the fat and skin; rub the gridiron v/ith a little fat, broil them on a clear fire, turn them with steak tongs till quite done, and serve them hot. LAMB CHOPS EN CASSEROLE. lake a loin of lamb, cut it into chops, rub them over with yolk of egg on both sides, and strew them over with bread crumbs, mace, cloves, pepper, and salt mixed; fiy them of a light brown, and place them on a dish in the form of a crown. Make a sauce of sweet herbs and parsley chopped finely, and stewed in a little thick gravy: pour this sauce into the middle of the dish. Serve garnished with fried parsley. LAMB CROQUETTES. Take a cold roasted leg or any other part of lamb, cut off the meat, clear away all the skin and sinews, and mince it'; mince also a little lamb fat or calf's udder, and some mushrooms ready dressed; mix all these together, and season them with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put half a dozen ladlesful of veloute and four of jelly into a saucepan, reduce to rather less than half, and add the yolks of three eggs, stirring constantly. When the sauce has thickened put in an ounce of butter, and stir tiU it is dissolved. Strain this sauce over the meat, stirring as before; then let it stand. When cold stir it once more, and then with a dessert spoon lay it on a table in little heaps. When all the meat is thus disposed take up each heap in your hand, form it into whatever shape you please (either round, oval, or pear-shaped. &c.), VOL. II. and roll them all in bread crumbs. Beat up three yolks and two whole eggs with a little salt and pepper, dip the croquettes into this, and bread them a second time. Take care that they are well covered, fry them in a hot pan, and when done drain and place them in a pyramid on your dish, with fried parsley over them. Make a sauce as follows :—Cut some mushrooms into dice, and put them into a saucepan with 1 oz. of butter; give them a few turns over the fire, and then add a few scallions shred small. When they have had a turn or two put in a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, and a bay leaf; re- duce the sauce, then take out the bay leaf, put in the yolks of four eggs and another ounce of butter, stir the whole till of the proper consistence, and then pour it over the croquettes. A little shred parslev may be added if you like. LAMB CUTLETS IN ASPIC. Take six- teen lamb cutlets, and lard them with moderate- sized lardons of calf's udder, truffles, and tongue a Vecarlate. Line a saucepan with slices of bacon, lay your cutlets on them, cover them with bacon, moisten with skimmings of consomme, and add a carrot, two onions stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Braise them, and when done put them between two dishes; let them cool, and then trim them so that the whole of the lardons may be seen. Have ready an aspic mould in which some of the jelly is set; lay the cutlets and a piece of tongue a Vecarlate alternately on it en couronne, and put two or three spoonsful of jelly on it carefully, so as not to displace the cutlets. When you find the jelly is set fill the mould, set it on ice, turn the aspic out only the minute before it goes to table, and pour it into the well or hollow part of cold blanquette of lamb, with some cold truffles sliced. LAMB CUTLETS EN CHEMISES. Having cut and trimmed your cutlets, cover them with a farce composed of fat livers, breasts of fowl or game, and streaked bacon, all chopped very small, and mixed with the crumb of bread soaked in cream. Season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Take some thin slices of bacon; spread the farce on them, lay a cutlet on each of the slices, roll them up and tie them, bread them carefully, and roast them before a moderate fire, basting them with their own fat. LAMB CUTLETS A LA CONSTANCE. Cut and trim eighteen cutlets, season them with pepper only, and put them into a tossing- pan, with a piece of glaze about the size of an egg, a ladleful of Espagnole, and two ladlesful of consomme. Half an hour before they are sent to table set the cutlets over a brisk fire, and move them about to prevent them sticking. When the liquor is reduced to a jelly take out the cutlets, and lay them on a dish en couronne, taking care ILAM [ ] LAM they are covered with the jelly. Make a ragout of livers, cocks' combs, and kidneys ; put them into some bechamel with some mushrooms ; fry the whole lightly, and pour them into the centre of the couroune of cutlets. Serve instantly. LAMB CUTLETS, FRICASSEED. Take a leg of lamb, cut it into thin cutlets across the grain, and put them into a stewpan. Make a sufficient quantity of good stock with the bones, shank, &c., to cover the cutlets, and put it into the stewpan; cover it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some cloves and mace, tied in a muslin bag, and let them stew gently for ten minutes. Take out the cutlets, skim off the fat, and remove the sweet herbs and mace; thicken it with butter rolled in flour; season it with salt and a little Cayenne pepper ; add a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, some force- meat balls, the yolks of three eggs beaten up in a pint of cream, and some grated nutmeg. Keep stii-ring the same way till it is thick and smooth, and then put in the cutlets ; give them a toss up, take them out with a fork, lay them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with beet-root and lemon. LAMB, EPIGRAMME OF. Take a fore-quarter of lamb, take off the shoulder, and cut the neck so that the cutlets are not injured ; dress it (the neck) in the same manner as a shoulder of lamb with cucumbers, and when done press it between two dishes to make it smooth; let it cool, and then cut it into pieces rather larger than the cutlets. Make them all of the same size and shape (oval); rub them all over with sauce a Vatelet; dip them in melted butter; bread and lay them on a dish ; cut and trim the cutlets, season them with salt and pepper, and put them into a pan, with melted butter over them. Take the shoulder (which has been roasted), cut off all the meat, and mince and make it into a blanquette. Keep it hot in a bain-marie. Just before dinner time broil the pieces of the neck, fry and glaze the cutlets, lay them alternately in a dish en couronne, in the centre of which pour the blanquette, and serve the whole immediately. LAMB, FORE-QUARTER: To Ragout. Take off the knuckle-bone, remove all the skin, lard well with bacon, and fiy brown; then put it into a stewpan, and cover it with gravy, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, beaten mace, and a little whole pepper; cover the pan closely, and let it stew half an hour. Strain off the gravy, into which, after clearing it of the fat, put half a pint of fried oysters, with two spoonsful of red wine, a few mushrooms, and some butter rolled in flour. Boil the whole together, with the juice of half a lemon; lay the lamb in a dish, pour the sauce over it, and send it to table. LAMB, FORE-QUARTER OP: To Roast. Cover it with paper to prevent it from being scorched. If it is large it will take an hour and a half; but a few minutes before it is done take off the paper, baste, and dredge it with flour; raise up the shoulder, and lay a piece of butter under it, with a little salt; then send the lamb to table with gravy in the dish, and mint sauce in a boat. If the lamb is to be eaten cold chopped parsley should be thrown over it. The neck and breast together are called scoven. In serving up a quarter of house lamb it is cus- tomary to cut off the shoulder, and to pepper and salt the ribs. The accompaniments are salad, broccoli, potatoes, and mint sauce. LAMB, GRASS : To Boil. Take it as a general rule to allow a quarter of an hour to eveiy pound, and serve it up with spinach, carrots, cabbage, and broccoli. LAMB, HASHED. Put a slice of butter into a stewpan, with a few mushrooms cut in pieces, and a bunch of herbs; shake them over the fire with a little floui% moistening with stock; then let the mushrooms stew till the sauce is nearly consumed. Next put in some small slices of cold roasted lamb, with the yolks of three eggs beaten up in milk ; thicken the whole over the fire, taking care that it does not boil; season to your taste, and before serving add a sprinkling of vinegar. LAMB, HEAD OF: To Dbess. Bone a head as far as the eye, take out the under jaw, soak, and then scald it. When cold diy and singe it, tie it up in slices of bacon, and cook it in a blanc. In about two hours take it out, drain, and untie it. Serve it quite plain, or with a ragout made with the liver, sweetbread, feet, and mushrooms, all done in a blanc. LAMB, HEAD OF (Conde Fashion). Stew it in a white braise, and serve it \vith a sauce made of verjuice, the yolks of three eggs, pep- per, salt, a bit of butter, chopped parsley (scalded), and a little bit of nutmeg. LAMB, HOUSE, HIND-QUARTER OF. To Force. Cut off the shank, and with the knife raise the thick part of the meat from the bone ; make a forcemeat with some suet, a few scalded oysters cut small, some gi'ated bread, a little pounded mace, pepper, and salt, and mix up with the yolks of two eggs. Put this forcemeat under the part where the meat has been raised up, and under the kidney; let it be half roasted, and then put into a stewpan with a quart of mutton gravy; cover it, and let it stew very gently. When it is sufi&ciently done take it up, and keep it hot; skim off the fat, and strain the gravy; add to this a glass of Madeira wine, a spoonful of walnut catsup, half a lemon, a little Cayenne, half a pint of stewed oysters, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the lamb.LAM LAM [ 115 ] LAMB, HOUSE, STEAKS (Beown). Dip them into egg, then season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chopped pixrsley, and fry them quickly; thicken some good gravy with butter and flour, add a little red wine, some catsup, and some oysters; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm; let them heat up, and serve. You may add, if you please, palates stewed, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs. LAMB, HOUSE, STEAKS (Whitk). Let them stew in milk and water till they are quite tender, with a small bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, a little salt, some white pepper, and some mace. Have ready some veal gravy, some mushroom powder, salt, and a little cream mixed up with a small quantity of flour ; shake the steaks round in this sauce, and just before they are taken up put in a few pickled mushrooms. LAMB, LEG OF : To Force. Take a leg of lamb, and with a sharp knife cut out all the meat, but leave the skin whole, and the fat upon it. Make the meat you cut out into the follow- ing forcemeat:—To 2 lbs. of meat put 2 lbs. of beef suet finely chopped; take away all the skin and suet from the meat, and mix it with four spoonsful of grated bread, eight or ten cloves, five or six large blades of mace dried and finely beaten, half a large nuttoeg grated, a little pepper and salt, some lemon-peel cut finely, a very little thyme, some parsley, and four eggs. Mix all these together, and put it into the skin ; make it as nearly as you can into the same shape it was before, sew it up, and roast it, basting it well with butter. Cut the loin into steaks, and nicely fry them ; lay the leg on the dish, and the steaks cut from tlie loin round it, with stewed cauliflowers all round upon the steaks ; pour a pint of good gravy into the dish, and then serve. ; LAMB, LEG OF (Boiled). It should be boiled in a cloth, that it may look as white as possible. Cut the loin into steaks, dip them in egg, strew them over with bread crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. Serve them round the dish, and garnish with, dried or fried parsley. Serve with spinach to eat with it. LAMB, LEG OF (en Saucissons). Bone a leg of lamb, take out above half the meat, and simmer it in butter a minute or two ; then I mince it with calf's udder, grated bacon, bread j soaked in cream, parsley, scallions, and truffles, j and season it with salt and spices. Put this into 1 the remainder of the leg, draw the skin over, and j roll it up in the form of a sausage; wrap it in a cloth, tie it tightly, and boil it in stock, with half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few carrots and onions sliced. When done serve it with any sauce you please. LAMB, LEG OF (Stewed with Peas). Take a leg of house lamb, and stew it in some stock or beef braise. When nicely done take it out, put it in a slow oven, and glaze it three or four times ; then have some nice young peas, well stewed with some good bechamel sauce; pour them on the dish, lay the leg on the top, cut the loin into cutlets, and do them on the fire with some butter and strong gravy. When nearly done shake them well in their glaze, dish round the lamb over the peas, and serve them hot to table. LAMB, LIVER OF. Have ready two lambs' plucks, cut the lights into dice, the liver into thin slices, and fry them lightly over a small fire in butter. They should be scarcely more than browned. Drain away half the butter, add- ing a little parsley and a few mushrooms shred small ; season them with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and serve them very hot. LAMB, LOIN OF (a la Peeigord.) Neatly trim a loin of lamb, warm it over the fire in a stewpan with a little oil, mixed with some green onions and mushrooms chopped, salt, and pepper; then change the lamb into another stewpan, well lined with slices of veal seasoned, and seven or eight truffles sliced, covered with thin rashers of bacon, and half a lemon cut in pieces. Let the whole stew over a slow fire, moistening with stock; and when done skim the fat from the sauce, pass it through a sieve, place the loin on a dish with the truffles, and pour the sauce over. LAMB, NECK OF. This is a small, deli- cate joint, and therefore only suited for a very small family. It must be washed in warm water, all the blood carefully cleaned away, and boiled. LAMB, PASCALINE OF. Scald four lambs' heads, bone the jaws, and cut off the ends of the noses; scald, also, the feet, singe them, and then cook the whole together in a blanc. When done drain them, lay the heads in a dish, fry your feet lightly in a little butter, with the yolks of four eggs, a little parsley, and a few mushrooms. Have ready a lamb's pluck, dressed as directed for Lamb (Livers of), and having laid the feet, with their sauce, in the dish with the heads, place the rest round them, aud serve. LAMB PASTY. Bone the lamb, cut it into four pieces, lay beef suet at the "bottom of the pasty, and season the lamb with pepper, salt, chopped thyme, nutmeg, cloves, and mace ; lay it upon the suet, making a high border about it; then turn over your sheet of paste, close it up, and bake it. When it is baked put in vinegar, the yolks of eggs well beaten, and some good gravy. LAMB PIE (German Wat). Cut a quartet of lamb in pieces, and lard them with small lar-LAM LAM [ IIG ] dons of bacon, seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a baj' leaf; add fat bacon pounded, small onions, nutmeg, and sweet herbs ; put these into the pie, and let it bake for three hours. When baked cut it open, skim off all the fat, pour in a ragout of oysters, and serve hot. LAMB PIE, RAISED. Cut the meat into slices, trim them neatl3% and lay them in the bottom of a stewpau or frying-pan, with loz. of butter, a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and some pepper and salt; put them over a fire, turn them, and then set the pan by to cool. Raise four or five small pies of paste about the size of a large tea-cup, put some veal forcemeat at the bottom, and the lamb upon it; roll out the top one- eighth of an inch thick, close the edges, bake them half an hour, and when done take off the top, and pour in some good brown sauce. LAMB PIE, SAVOURY. Cut the lamb into pieces, and season them with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, finely beaten. Make a good puff-paste crust, and put the meat into it, with a few lambs' stones and sweetbreads, seasoned the same as the meat; then put in some oysters and forcemeat balls, the yolks of hard eggs, and the tops of asparagus, about two inches long, first boiled green; put butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a quick oven. In the meantime take a pint of gravy, the oyster liquor, a gill of red wine, and a little grated nutmeg ; mix all these together with the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and keep stirring it the same way all the time. When it boils pour it into the pie, put on -the lid again, and serve it to table. LAMB, QUARTER OF (en Crepine). Cut three onions into dice, and fry them in lard. When nearly done add a few shallots and parsley shred small, basil, salt, spice, four eggs, two spoonsful of cream, and half a pint of lamb's blood. Simmer these over the fire till pretty thick; have ready a quarter of lamb boned, taking care not to injure the skin ; put the above farce in the place of the bone, roll it up in a caul, and roast it, basting with butter and bread crumbs. Pass a salamander over to colour it, and serve it with a duck sauce. LAMB, QUARTER OF (with Heebs). Roll a bit of butter in flour, and boil it a mo- ment with a few bread crumbs, chopped parsley, f,hallots, green thyme, salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, and stock in proportion. The lamb being roasted, lift up the shoulder, and pour this sauQe between in the same manner as you generally do Seville orange, with pepper and salt. LAMB, QUARTER OF (Roasted and _ Laeded). Take a fore-quarter of lamb, lard the upper side of the joint with lean Dacon, and sprinkle the other side thickly with bread ci'umbs ; then cover with paper, to prevent the meat from being burnt, and roast it. When nearly done take it from the fire, and cover the part that has not been larded a second time with bread crumbs, seasoned with salt and parsley chopped very finely; then put the lamb again before a bright fire to brown it. Serve with a little vinegar poured over it. LAMB, RAGOUT OF. Cut the knuckle- bone off a fore-quarter of lamb, lard it with thiu pieces of bacon, flour it, and then put it into a stewpan, with a quart of stock or good gravy, a bundle of herbs, a little mace, two or three cloves, and a little whole pepper. Cover it closely, and let it stew pretty fast for half an hour ; pour off all the liquor, strain it, and keep the lamb hot in the pot till the sauce is ready. Take half a pint of oysters, flour them, fry them brown, drain off thoroughly the fat they were fried in, and skim off all the fat from the gravy; then pour it on the oysters, put in an anchovy, and two spoonsful of either red or white wine. Boil the whole together till reduced to just sufficient for a sauce; add some fresh mushrooms and some pickled, with the juice of half a lemon, or a spoonful of pickle. Lay the lamb in the dish, pour the sauce over it, and garnish with lemon. LAMB SAUCE. Roll a piece of butter in bread crumbs, shred parsley, and shallots, and boil it in a little stock and white wine (equal quantities). A few minutes ai'e suflEicient. Squeeze in a little lemon or orange juice. LAMB, SHOULDER OF. A shoulder of lamb of moderate size will require roasting from thi'ee quarters of an hour to an hour. When done put some good gravy into the dish with the lamb, and serve mint sauce in a boat. LAMB, SHOULDER OF (with Cucumbers). Bone the shoulder to the knuckle, and lard the inner part with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt, and spices ; tie it up in rather a long form, and braise it the same as a la Polonnaise. Drain them when done ; untie and glaze them. Prepare some cucumbers d la crime, on which lay the lamb, and serve. Endive, tomato sauce, or any other sauce you may choose, is equally good with the lamb. LAMB, SHOULDER OF (A la Dau- phine). Bone a shoulder of lamb to the knuckle; make a farce with truffles or mush- rooms, fat livers, parsley, shallots (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two yolks of eggs; roll this into the shoul- der, and braise it with a little stock, a few slices of bacon, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Serve it on stewed spinach.LAM [ 117 ] LAM LAMB, SLICES OF (Fried). Cut some cold lamb into slices ; season and fry them. When done put them into a dish, and pour over them melted butter; then put a little flour into a saucepan, with some beef stock and a little walnut pickle ; let this boil, and keep stirring. Serve the slices of lamb in this sauce, and garnish with fried parsley. LAMB STEAKS, FRIED. Fry them of the nicest brown, and when served throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crisped parsley.; or you may season and broil them in buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, according to LAMB SWEETBREADS (1). These parts of lamb are generally dressed the same as veal sweetbreads. The following, however, belongs rather to those of lamb:—Butter a saucepan, and put in the sweetbreads, and two spoonsful of jelly; cover them with a buttered paper, put fire above and below, and stew them thus for half an hour; then serve them with a puree of fowls or endive, or any other sauce you think proper. LAMB SWEETBREADS (2). Blanch your sweetbreads, and put them into cold water for a little while ; then put them into a stewpan, with a ladleful of stock, some pepper, salt, a small bunch of young onions, and a blade of mace; stir in a bit of butter, with some flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and grated nutmeg ; put in some boiled as-> paragus tops, and add tbem to the other things. It must not boil after the cream is put in, but make it hot, and stir it well all the time. Be very careful that it does not curdle ; add some lemon or orange juice, and then serve. ! LAMB TENDONS WITH ASPARAGUS, f Take two breasts of lamb, braise them, and when done lay them between two dishes, with a weight on the top. As soon as they are cold cut them in pieces, leaving on the end of the bone, like cutlets ; put them into a tossing-j>an, with a piece of glaze and a spoonful of con- I somme, and simmer them till they are completely I covered with the glaze. Have ready a bundle j of asparagus, choosing the most tender heads, I and boil them in the usual way in salt and water i for about ten minutes; skim, and when done j drain them on a sieve; then fry them lightly in I a little butter, Allemande, and a small quantity of sugar. Dish the tendons en couronne, with the asparagus heads in the centre ; glaze and serve them. LAMB, TIME FOR COOKING. A quarter of an hour is generally allowed to each pound of meat. A leg of lamb of 5 lbs. wfll, therefore, take an hour and a quarter to roast or boil, and other joints in the same proportion. Serve either with salad, pickles, broccoli, cauliflowers, French beans, peas, potatoes, or cucumbers, raw or stewed. LAMBS'BRAIN CAKES. Take the brains, and remove any veins, &c., that may be amonj: them; chop well with a knife, and add salt, nutmeg, or pepper, a little raw egg, and flour enough to make them stick together; mix well, make into cakes about the size of the top of a wine-glass, and fry them brown on both sides with lard. LAMBS' BRAINS are generally reckoned more delicate than those of sheep. They are mostlv prepared in the same manner. LAMBS' BRAINS A LA MAYONNAISE. Take eight lambs' brains, and, having washed and prepared them for dressing in the same way as calves' brains, blanch and then drain them in a cloth, lay them on a dish, with a tongue d Vicariate, cut like cockscombs, between each brain ; place hai'd eggs, gherkins, a pretty firm mayonnaise, and a glass of ravigote in the centre, and garnish your dish with pieces of jelly. LAMBS' EARS WITH SORREL. Take about a dozen lambs' ears (this quantity will make a small dish), and braise them till tender. Take a large handful of sorrel, chop it a little, and stew it in a spoonful of stock with a small bit of butter; pour in a small ladleful of cullis, some grated nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt; stew for a minute, twist up the ears nicely, and serve. LAMBS'EARS, STUFFED. Take a dozen lambs' ears, and soak and scald them. When cold diy, singe, and cook them in a blanc for an hour and a half; drains and fill them with a farce ctdte. Put the ears into melted butter, and roll them in bread crumbs; break four eggs into the butter, with salt and pepper; beat all up together, and dip the ears into it; then roll them again in bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour. Take care your pan is not too hot. Drain the ears well, and serve them up with fried parsley. LAMBS' FEET. Clean, well wash, and blanch six lambs' feet; stew them till they become tender in some white stock, with a slice of lean ham, an onion, some parsley, thyme, two bla,des of mace, a little whole pepper, and a few mushrooms. Befove serving strain the sauce, and thicken it with flour, butter, and half a pint of cream; boil it a quarter of an hour, add the feet, and the juice of half a small lemon. Garnish with sippets of thin toasted bread cut into a three-cornered shape. LAMBS' FEET EN CARTOUCHES. Prepare some sweet herbs en papillotes, and having cooked the feet in a blanc, put them to the herbs whilst they are hot; give them two or three boils, squeeze the juice of a lemoiiLAM LAM C 118 1 over them, and leave them to cool. Cut some pieces of paper, each large enough to hold one of the feet; rub oil over the inside, and lay the feet on the pieces of oiled paper, with the herbs put round and in the hollow parts ; wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, over which fold the paper so as to inclose them completely, and broil them thus over a slow but clear fire for half an hour. Serve them either dry or with clear gravy. LAMBS' FEET AU GRATIN. Take a dozen lambs' feet, and set them to stew a la braise, with eighteen or twenty small onions. Whilst they are stewing make a gratin with some bread crumbs, a little scraped cheese, a hit of butter, and the yolks of three eggs; mix the whole together, and spread it over the bottom of your dish, setting it upon a stove, or on a chafing-dish over a slow fire, till it adheres to the bottom; then put the lambs' feet and the small onions intermixed upon a gratin, let the whole simmer a little over the fire, drain off the fat, and serve with a good sauce poured over. LAMBS' FEET EN MARINADE. The feet being blanched as usual, soak them in a marinade, or, in case you have none, in half a glass of vinegar, with salt and pepper. After they have lain a sufficient time drain, dip them in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour ; then lay them on a cloth to drain. Serve with fried parsley over them. LAMBS' FEET, STUFFED. Prepare your feet in the usual manner; but, before you blanch them, fill them with a fowl quenelle, with the addition of a little grated nutmeg and sweet herbs shred small. Sew this farce in, and then put the feet into boiling water for five minutes ; let them cool, dry, and singe them. Make a thick blauc, put the feet in it, and simmer them for about two hours; then drain, trim, and serve them with sauce Hollandaise. LAMB'S FRY. This consists of the sweet- breads, skirts, and a portion of the liver. Flour and season it, and fry plain, or dip the fry in egg, and strew crumbs over it hefore fiying. Serve fried parsley with it, and either of the sauces directed for cutlets. LAMB'S HEAD AND PLUCK (Italian Way). Choose a fine lamb's head, with the ap- purtenances, the harslet, and the trotters. First take out the jaw-bones from the head, and cut off the end of the muzzle ; then throw the head and harslet into a large pan, and pump some water upon them: let the pan be nearly full. Set a deep stewpan on the fire, and put in the head and harslet, with fresh cold water; let them heat a little, stirring them and moving them about, that they may be blanched in every part; then put in the trotters, let the stewpan con- tinue some time longer over the fire, and then take all out. Clean a moderately deep kettle, and lay at the bottom of it some slices of fat bacon cut thinly, and spread so as to cover the entire bottom. Make a seasoning with the leaves of sweet herbs picked from the stalks, and with some sweet basil chopped finely, some onions shred and minced, pepper, salt, and a blade or two of mace, shred and mixed among the rest. Divide this into two parcels, and strew one parcel over the slices of bacon laid at the bottom of the kettle; then lay in the head, harslet, and trotters very carefully, and upon them strew the remainder of the seasoning, only reserving a little. Then lay some slices of bacon over all this, and strew the remaining small quantity of the seasoning over; pour in gently enough water to cover the whole, and and set it over a stove ; let it boil till they are done enough; then remove it from the stove, and carefully take every part up. Prepare the dish for it, but first skin the tongue, split it, and lay it in; then split open the head, and take out the hone, that you may get out the hrains entire. Put the head thus managed and the tongue handsomely in the middle of the dish; cut the liver into four pieces, and the lights into eight, and lay these interchangeably round the head and tongue. When all is thus ready heat some rich gravy, thicken it, and pour it over the whole. LAMB'S HEAD AND PLUCK (Minced) Split the head in half, and blanch it wit the liver, lights, and heart; then chop th heart, and add a little pai'sley, chopped finely a small quantity of shred lemon - peel, au some cullis. Stew it gently till done, and season it; wash the head over, and bake it gently till very tender. When it is to he served up colour it with a salamander; clean the brains in warm water, wipe them diy, dip them in yolks of eggs and bread crumbs, and fry them in boiling lai'd. Put the mince under the head, and the fried brains round it, with rashers ol bacon. ] LAMB'S HEAD SOUP. Choose for this purpose a delicate lamb's head and the feet; put them both into a large earthen pan, and pour upon them a good quantity of boiling water. When they are well scalded clean them, and put them into a small pot; boil them in rich broth for half au hour, then put in the liver, and with it some slices of fat and lean bacon; boil these up for some time, and then put some mutton gravy in a saucepan on the fire to heat. Fry the brains of the lamb with the yolk of an egg and some crumbs of bread, and take care they have a very good colour. All being thus pre- pared, take up the head, and lay it handsomely in a soup dish; put the brains whole, as they are fried, into their places, and pour in the broth, first mixing jvitli it the hot mutton gravy, anLAM LAM [ 119 ] seasoning it to the palate. Lay in soaked crusts as usual, and garnish the dish with orange and pieces of liver, cut handsomely and laid inter- changeably. LAMB'S HEAD, STEWED. Take out the bi ains, and make a farce of them ; boil it, and when cold cut it in pieces; then mince some lamb and beef suet together with the brains, and add some grated bread; season with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs minced small, and add four or five raw eggs. Fill the lamb's head with these, then put it into a stewpan, and let it stew with some good stock. Make the remainder of the mince meat into balls, and serve with the stewed head. LAMB'S HEAD, STUFFED. Soak the head well in boiling water, and then put it on the fire till half done; take out all the bones and the brains, make a farce with streaked bacon, fat livers, the tongue, brains, and morels, all minced very small, and united with veal; put this farce i into the head, bread it all over, and put it into a mild oven. When it is of a nice colour take it out, and serve it quite hot with veal gravy. LAMBS' TAILS. Braise or boil the tails, and make a light batter of flour, one egg, a little salt, white wine, and a little oil; fry them of a nice brown colour, and serve them, gar- nished with fried parsley. You may serve them with what sauce you think proper. LAMPREY, BROILED (1). Wash it very clean in warm water, cut it into pieces, melt some butter, and roll the fish in it; make a seasoning with bread crumbs grated, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, and sweet herbs chopped finely. After the fish has been well rubbed in the butter dip it into the seasoning, and broil it over a clear, gentle fire. LAMPREY, BROILED (2). Cut a lamprey into three pieces, and put them into a pan, with white and I'ed wine, a little butter, whole pep- per, salt, sliced onions, carrots, parsnips, thyme, a bay leaf, and cloves. Before the fish is quite done drain and dip it in butter, cover it with bread crumbs, broil it slowly, and baste it with oil or butter. Serve it dry. LAMPREY A L'lTALIENNE. Put two onions chopped very small into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, a spoonful or two of oil, a bu ch of sweet herbs, two cloves of spice, two of garlic, the fish cut in pieces, the blood, and half a p-nt of red wine. Set these on a brisk fire, and boil till the liquor is reduced; take out the herbs, and then keep it on till done. Squeeze le on iuice over, and serve. LAMPREY, STEWED. Clean the fish very carefully, remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and season with a few cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice; put it into a small stewpan, with very strong beef gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry; cover it closely, and let it stew till tender; then take out the lamprey, and keep it hot while you boil up the liquor with two or three chopped anchovies, and some flour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horseradish. LAMPREYS. The lamprey is a species of eel, but thicker, shorter, and less brown than that fish. They are seldom to be had in Lon- don, and are not very plentiful in any part of England. They should be chosen fat, and are generally cooked in the same manner as eels. LAMPREYS : To Pot. Scald and scrape them; take out the insides, especially the black string; season with pepper, salt, and mace; put them into a pan, and bake them in a slow oven. When they are done take them out of the gravy, put them into a clean pan, and cover them with clarified butter. LAMPREYS, FRIED. Cut off the heads, and save the blood that runs from them ; then wash them well in warm water, dry them in a cloth, fry them in a little fresh butter till half done, pour off the fat, and put in a little white wine ; shake the pan round, and put in a little whole pepper, nutmeg, salt, sweet herbs, a bay leaf, a few capers, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the blood. Shake the pan round frequently, and cover it closely. When they are done take them out, strain off the sauce, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish. LAMPREYS, FRIED (with Capers). Get fresh lampreys full of life, and not such as have been kept out of water till they can scarcely stir, for this makes them good for little. Bleed them and save the blood ; then make some water scalding hot, and throw in a little salt; pour it into a pan, and put in the lampreys to clean them; rub and wash them thoroughly to get off their slime ; then cut them into pieces, wash them over again, and dry them in a napkin. When this is done set on a stew- pan with some clarified butter, adding a little flour, some pepper and salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay leaf; grate in a little nutmeg, and, last of all, pour in a glass of white wine. Put in the pieces of lamprey, and fry them care fully. When they are pretty well done take out the herbs, and put in the blood; add at the same time two spoonsful of chopped capers, and then thicken all up. Heat a dish, pour in the whole together, and serve it up hot. LAMPS. (See Argand Lamp and Gas.) These are very various in form ; but, so far as the shape of the burner is concerned for giving the most light, none excel that of the Argand. TheLAM [ 120 ] LAM improvements which have been introduceJ con- sist chiefly in the mode of supplying the oil or other fluid consumed. Thus there is the annular French lamp, with a reservoir for the oil in a ring round the light; Parker's semcmbra lamp, much like it, and having the same object—tlie avoidance of shado\y; Quarrel's Albion lamp keeps the wick better supplied with oil than the two preceding; Parker's hot-oil lamp heats its own oil previously to burning it; the solar lamp has a current of air thrown upon the outside of the flame, instead of passing through it as in the Argand; fountain lamps, of various intricate forms, have given place to the Carcel, or mode- rateur lamp, which, by a spiral spring, is made to force up an overflowing supply of oil to the wick; Young's Vesta, or camphine lamp, has been disused, owing to its liability to produce smuts, and to accidents from the combustible nature of the spirit employed to burn in it. We have already given some general directions for the management of lamps under the head of Argand Lamp, and we will only add to them that, to prevent or lessen the smoking of lamps, the wicks should be well soaked either in dilute muriatic acid, well washed in water and dried, or in strong vinegar, when they will merely require drying. Large lamps, that emit much smoke, should be burnt under a funnel to carry it off; or a large sponge, dipped in water, may be suspended over them. In all cases the wicks should not be put up too high. For the following valuable notes we are in debted to the " Supplement of the Penny Cyclo- paedia :"— Candle Lamps, oi Tallow Lamps, is a designation under which may be grouped many recent contrivances, having for their object the burning of solid tallow or fat instead of oil, but without having the tallow formed into a candle. The Soho lamp, patented in 1840, is intended for burning solid tallow or some other kind of fat, although the lamp itself is very similar in shape to many of those used with oil. The tallow is brought to the form of a long cylinder, like a candle without a wick, and is placed in the vertical stem of the lamp ; there is a spiral spring beneath it, which presses it up close to a conical cap or cover at the top. A fixed tube passes up through the centre of the cylinder of tallow, from top to bottom ; and in this tube is placed a cotton wick dipped in wax, the height of which above the top of the tallow can be re- gulated by a rack, pinion, and nut. The tallow or fat is made into a hollow cylinder, in order to leave room for the central tube containing the wick. When the lamp is to be extinguished tlie wick is drawn down below the top of the tube, and again raised before the tallow becomes cold. The lamps or candlesticks now made for burning Palmer's candles, and which are, indeed, fitted for most kinds of candles, bear a great deal of resemblance to the-above, in respect of having a conical cap to keep the candle within the tube, and a spiral spring in the lower part of the tube to press the candle upwards as it burns ; but there is no necessity for the central wick tube, since the candles employed have wicks of their own. These candlesticks, and the candles belonging to them, offer the two conveniences of maintaining the light always at an equal height, and of dispensing with the aid of snufl"ers. Some sort of shade or globe is necessary for realising the latter of these two benefits fully, shice the flame becomes very un- steady if the bui'ning be effected as in a com- mon candle. One of the projects of this class consists in placing any kind of wax, tallow, or fat into a receptacle, and having either hot water or hot metal beneath it, so as to keep it in a melted state, fitted to be used in the same manner as oil; but any method of keeping the water or the metal hot would seem likely to be a far greater inconvenience than any supposed good arising from the use of a solid food for the lamp. In another contrivance, however, where the sub- stance employed is either lard or tallow, there is a piece of metal which descends from the flame into the vessel containing the lard ; and this metal, becoming heated by the flame, communi- cates this heat to the lard, and thus keeps it in a melted state. The inconvenience of such arrangements arises from the circumstance that the hot water or a heated piece of metal must be put into the lamp before lighting it, in order to melt the tallow. When this preliminary step is taken the tallow is kept in a melted state by various means. One ingenious mode consists in having an air-tube within the wick, to carry air up to the flame, and two projections from this tube at the top into the flame itself; so that the metal of which the tube is made, be- coming heated at the upper end, speedily com- municates heat to the contents of the lamp below. There are many curious little pieces of me- chanism, patented within the last few years, the object of which relates principally to the burn- ing of common candles, or the mode of adjusting them into the candlesticks. One consists of a candle-shade constructed in a circular ring, which ring is suspended from a conical cap which rests on the top of the candle; as the candle burns this cap sinks with it, and by that means the shade is kept at a constant height relatively to the level of the blaze, though not relatively to the level of the table on which the candlestick is placed. Anothep cojitrivapce isFRENCH MODERATOR LAMP WITH CANDLE BRANCHES[ 121 ] LAM LAM intended to afford the means of adjusting any candle, large or small, to a large candlestick, hj having a semicircular piece of brass, which is made to press against one side of the candle in the socket. A simpler contrivance for the same object consists of a pair of wedges, placed one on each side of the lower end of the candle. Another little piece of apparatus consists of a wire frame for supporting a shade, and which is itself supported by having a sort of circular spring hoop, which clasps the candle. Oil Lamps. One of the difficulties which have lessened the usefulness of common oil lamps is the tendency of the oil to thicken in cold weather; while another lies in the imper- fection of the means for keeping the wick well nloistened with oil up to the verge of the flame. Both of these matters have enga^fed attention within the last few years. Dr. Ure remarks, the great cost of light from wax, spermaceti, and even stearic candles, and also the nuisance of the light from tallow ones, have led to the invention of an endless variety of lamps, of which the best hitherto known is undoubtedly the mechanical or Carcel lamp, so generally used by the opulent families in Paris. In this lamp the oil is raised through tubes by clock- work, so as continually to overflow at the bottom of the burning wick, thus keeping it thoroughly soaked, while the excess of the oil drops back into the cistern below. There is a lamp called the meteor lamp, having some of the properties of the Carcel, but in- tended to burn rape oil. The internal arrange- ments of this lamp are curious and complicated. The lower part of the pedestal consists of a reservoir for containing the oil; and in this reservoir is a kind of piston or plunger, worked up and down by a nut and screw frona the out- side ; the rising of this piston occasions the pressure or tightening of a coiled spring, and this pressure causes the oil to be forced up a central tube towards the flame. The admisr sion and regulation of the oil to the lamp, the adjustment of the wick, the arrangement of the air holes for admitting draught, and of the gallery which supports the glass chimney, are all of an intricate kind, and, whatever may be their efficiency while in good order, would rea- der the repair, in case of damage, a serious matter. One of the modes adopted for maintaining the oil in a liquid state is by the use of a palm constructed by Mr. Parker, in which the oil is used in a hot state. At a small distance around the tube which contains the wick is another tube, and the space between the two tubes, of capacity sufficient to hold a pint, constitutes the reservoir for the oil. The oil is thus so near the flame that it speedily becomes warm, by which its facility of burning is much increased. A slide-valve is opened to allow the oil to descend from the reservoir to the wick. The intensity of the flame is modified by raising or lowering a bell-mouthed glass chimney by means of rackwork mechanism. In a series of expe- riments on the illuminating powers of different kinds of lamps and candles Dr. Ure found that the hot-oil lamp, with a given quantity of oil, gave a brighter light than any other form of lamp ; or, the light being equal in intensity, the hot-oil lamp was the most economical. This corroborates, as far as it goes, the remarkable results obtained by the hot-blast in the iron manufacture. Argand's principle of the mode of admitting air to act on the wick has been the one most gene- rally followed since his time, and many of the subsequent inventions have had relation merely to some modification of this arrangement. The solar lamp, one of the modern kinds, has a provision for sending up air through the interior of the wick, as in the Argand ; but the action of the air on the exterior of the wick is made more decided. The wick passes through a hole in the centre of a cap or cone, and the air is ad- mitted so as to act on the flame close to this hole, and in a horizontal direction, while the flame is yet small ; so that the exposure of the gaseous products to the air is much more inti- mate than in the ordinary lamps, and the com- bustion more complete. Many improvements have been introduced from time to time ; but the solar lamp remains in principle an Argand, with the addition of a cap or cone to deflect the ex- ternal air more directly towards the flame. Many of the modern variations in lamps and in gas burners have had relation to this circum- stance of admitting the external air to act at the points, and in the quantity, found best for the maintenance of a clear flame. Spirit Lamps. In chemical experiments the spirit lamp has long been a valuable piece of apparatus ; but the use of spirit instead of oil as a food for lamps intended for domestic purposes is a modern innovation, and has led to much mechanical ingenuity in the construction of the apparatus. The term " spirit'' is rather a vague one, since there are many kinds of spirit which are inflammable enough to be used for this purpose; but the kind here alluded to is the spirit of tur- pentine, or that liquid which is distilled from common turpentine by being separated from the resin which is a component ingredient in the last-named substance. When brought to its purest state this spirit is called by the French chemists camphine;" and hence the name for some of the modern spirit lamps. Turpentine being a very abundant produce of the AmericanLAM LAM [ 122 ] forests, camphine has been long in use in the United States for lighting shops and public buildings, and it seems to have been from that country that the practice was borrowed and in- troduced into England. When the import duty on turpentine was lowered some few years ago, the price became reduced su^iciently to direct the attention of lamp-makers to the prac- ticability of using camphine as a substitute for oil. Many cSfferent forms of lamp have resulted from these inquiries ; and different processes have also been adopted for freeing the tur- pentine from a small quantity of oxygen which it contains. Young's Vesta lamp is one of those varieties In the specification of the patent it was stated that the lamp is constructed for burning rec- tified spirits of turpentine, or camphine; that, on account of the inflammability of this liquid, provision is made for keeping cool the reservoir where it is deposited; that no tube or metal conductor of any description is allowed to pass into or through the liquid from the burning part of the lamp; that a non-conductor of heat is placed between the burner and the liquid ; that the cotton wick hangs down from the burner into the spirit, so as to supply spirit to the flame by capillary attraction, without the intervention of any metallic or conducting sub- stance ; that the admission of air to the interior of the wick is managed without the necessity of passing an air-tube through the liquid. All these features and a few others are rendered necessary in the camphine or spirit lamps, on account of the extreme inflammability of the liquid; an inflammability such that the arrange- ments for an oil lamp would not be available for a camphine lamp without much danger. Whether these camphine lamps receive the name of Vesta, or Ge^n, or Victoria, or Paragon, or Imperial, or any other of the many which have been applied to them, they all present in common a reservoir, generally of glass, placed between the supporting pillar and the burner; the spirit is contained in this reservoir, and a cotton wick is seen to dip down into it. The chief points in whicli the several varieties of the lamp differ are in the arrangements for admit- ting air to the flame. Of one of these lamps, the Vesta, Dr. Ur^ states that, if "burning with its utmost bril liancy, without smoke, it emits a light equal to very nearly twelve wax or sperm candles of three or four to the pound ; and in so doing it consumes exactly one imperial pint of spirits of turpentine (valufe sixpence) in ten hours; hence the cost per hour for a light equal to ten such caudles is one halfpenny." Since that state- ment was written tlie demand for camphine has raised its price, and the relative advantages in its favour are therefore smaller; but its till remains much cheaper than any form of candle or of oil lamp, in relation to the quantity of light yielded. All lamp oils contain some oxygen, which neutralises a part of the hydro- gen and carbon, and also some oxide or other substance which damps the brilliancy of the flame; whereas rectified camphine, being com- posed almost wholly of hydrogen and carbou, contains nothing but what is susceptible of com- bustion. Whether the lamp be so constructed as to admit of this perfect combustion, and also so as to avoid danger, are questions for the manufactm'er ; but in a scientific point of view camphine seems better fitted for combustion than oil. It is not alone from turpentine that the spirit may be procured ; for tar and naj^htha also, if subjected to careful distillation and rec- tification, will yield a spirit or camphine differ- ing but little from that yielded by tui-pentine. A few words may here be added concerning two important features connected with lamps, viz., the comparative illuminating powers of different kinds, and the means of carrying of ■ the products of combustion. Pectet, Dr. Ure, and Dr. Fyfe have all in- stituted experiments bearing on the former of these two questions. Pectet experimented on caudles only. He determined what would be the value of different kinds of candle, sufficient to produce a given intensity of light, as deter- mined by Carcel's lamp as a standard. They rank in the following order, the first being the cheapest:—Tallow candles, six to the pound; ditto, of eight to the pound; pressed tallow; stearine ; spermaceti; wax. This relation was as to price only; the relative weights of material consumed followed a different order of arrange- ment, the spermaceti being the least, and the pressed tallow the greatest. In Dr. Ure's list (" Supplement to Dictionary of Arts ") the rela- tive quantities of light for a given price, or the relative cheapness of a given quantity of light, among several kinds of lamps and candles, are placed in the following order :— Hot-oil lamp, with southern whale oil, Carcel lamp, with sperm oil, Hot-oil lamp, with spenn oil, „ „ with common olive oil, „ „ with cocoa-nut oil, t French lamp, with sperm oil. Mould taUow candles, Palmei's spread-wick candles, Stearic acid candles, Cocoa-nut stearine, Spermaceti candles. Wax candles: the fii'st being, in point of economy, the cheapest, and the last the dearest. Dr. Fyfe's experiments (" Transactions of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts ") seem to have193 ] LAR LAN been of a more extensive character, embracing a larger number of sources of illumination. As- suming a given intensity of gas light as a standard, he experimented on ten varieties of candles, and found their relative cheapness, in producing the given degree of light, to rank as follows :—Tallow with single wick, cocoa, com- posite, palm, tallow with double wicks, wax, diaphane, margarine, spermaceti, and compo- sition. In another table, comparing gas, oil, and candles together, he assumed an Argand gas flame as a standard of intensity and price, and gives the following arrangement in respect to the ratios of relative cheapness, the intensity of light being uniform:—. Argand gas flame . . 1-00 Solar lamp . 2-00 Naphtha . . 2-00 Solar oil in Argand lamp . 3-98 Whale oil . . 5-00 Sperm oil . . 8-00 Tallow candle (two wicks) . 12-70 Cocoa candle . . 13-10 Tallow candle (one wick). . 13-50 Composite . 14-50 Palm . 18-90 Wax .... . 25-90 Diaphane . . 27-10 Margarine . 28-40 Spermaceti . . 29-20 Composition . . 29-20 According to this table composition candles are nearly thirty times as costly as gas for an equal intensity of light. LANCASTER DROP. See Black Drop. LANTERNS are usually made of glass, horn, or other transparent matter, for the trans- mission of light; but if they were covered ex ternally with thin wirework many accidents might be prevented in stables and barns, as the lanterns might thus be rendered less liable to injury from external accidents, while the com- munication of light -would not be materially impeded. LAPLANDS. Beat separately the whites and yolks of five eggs, add one pint of rich cream and one pint of flour, or perhaps a little more, enough to make it of the consistence of pound cake. Put it in small round tins, and bake in a quick oven. LAPWINGS. They should be roasted and served in the same manner as wild ducks. The lapwing, which is nearly the size of the pigeon, is much esteemed for its delicacy of flavour. LARCH {Pinus larix). The most proper season for felling the larch is in the month of July, because the liquid which oozes from the tree at that time is speedily changed into a gummy-resinous matter, so that the wood is not drained so much as at other seasons, but hardens, and may thus be sooner employed. Larch is of singular utility for various pur- poses in which durability and strength are re- quired. Hence it is peculiarly adapted for ship-masts and the building of vessels, or for strengthening the wooden framework of bridges; for it is capable of sustaining a much greater weight than oak itself, and almost petrifies under water. It also resists the intemperature of our climate, and is of excellent service for gates, pales, railway sleepers, and other works which are exposed to all the vicissitudes of the weather. Larch timber is equally durable ■^\'ithin doors ; and houses constructed with it have a whitish cast for the first two or three years, after which the outside becomes black, while all the joints and crevices are firmly closed with the resin extracted from the pores of the wood by the heat of the sun, and which, being hardened by the air, forms a kind of bright varnish that has an elegant appearance. Nor is there any wood which affords such durable pipe-staves for casks, while the flavour of the wine is at the same time preserved and improved. Its trunk, when perforated and tapped between the months of March and September, yields the purest Venetian turpentine, which is of considerable use in medicine. Its large branches produce small, sweetish grains resembling sugar, which are known under the name of manna, from their possessing similar purgative properties with that drug. Beside the manifold uses to which this in- estimable tree is subservient, we shall mention a few additional facts, chiefly extracted from foreign writers, with the confident hope of pro- moting its more general culture. From the inner rind or bark of the larch the Russians manufacture fine white gloves, not inferior to those made of the most delicate chamois, while they are stronger, cooler, and more pleasant for wearing in the summer. A gummy matter, partaking of the properties of animal glue and vegetable mucilage, is obtained by a curious process from the sap of this tree, and which greatly resembles the gum arable or Senegal, though it is of a brown colour: it is known in Russia by the name of Orenberg gum. Pallas informs us that the untutored natives cut a hole at one side of the trunk near its root, and then burn the wood to the very pith by applying combustible materials. In consequence of the heat thus generated the circulating medullary juice descends in drops, which concrete into a transparent gum, forming various fanciful con- figurations. In countries where the larch tree abounds, its firm and compact wood (a cubic foot of which, or one hundred and forty-four solid inches, weighs forty-one pounds, and exceeds that of the fir in the proportion of eight to seven), affords a very superior charcoal. This,LAR L AR L 324 ] likewise, in quantity measured one-third more than that burnt from the fir tree; and its specific gravity, on weighing and balancing it with the latter, was as eight to five. It is, however, remarkable that the larch contains more aqueous ingredients than the fir tree, inso- much that five measures of the oily water collected during the combustion of the former yielded, on evaporation, only three ounces and a half of pitch, whereas four measures and a half of the latter produced four ounces. Build- ings erected of larch wood have been known to remain sound for two hundred years, as it is eminently adapted to resist the effects of air and water, while it is exempt from the depreda- tions of the worm: hence it is peculiarly excel- lent for shingles. Lastly, the bark and other parts of this profitable tree have been found by experiment to be proper substitutes for that of the oak. LARD : To Prevent becoming Rakcid. Melt it gently with a little salt, a few whole allspice, and a little suet; then strain it, and it will keep till the time arrives for procuring a fresh supply. LARD : To Render. The leaf lard should be rendered by itself, as it does not take so long as that with the skin on. Cut it up finely, and put it in a clean pot with half a pint of water ; stir it frequently, and let it boil fast at first. When the cracklings are light brown, and float on the top, the lard is nearly done, and should cook slowly. When done strain it into your vessels with a thin cloth put over a cullender. If you put lard in stone or earthen jars it should be cooled first, as there is danger of their cracking. White oak firkins, with ii'on hoops and covers to fit tightly, are good to keep lard in, and if taken care of will last for twenty years. The fat that has the skin on should be cut very small, taking off the skin first. It takes longer to boil than the leaf lai-d, and, as there is more danger of burning, put a pint of water in the pot. The skins should be boiled alone, and will do for soap fat after the lard is out of them. Soak the inside fat all night in salt and water, wash it in the morning, and put it to boil without any water in the pot. It is not so nice as other lard, and should be strained by itself. It does very well for frying. Lard keeps well in large tin vessels with tight covers, and is not apt to mould. LARD, HOG'S. The lard should be care- fully melted in a jar put into a kettle of water, and boiled. Run it into bladders that have been particularly welf cleaned. It is best to have the bladders small, as the lard will keep better; for, after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is melting put in a sprig of rose- mary. LARDER. The larder, or safe, for keeping the meat and other provisions in, both before and after they are cooked, should be large, and, in- deed, sufficiently capacious to contain all the provisions. It should be effectually protected from the sun's rays, and yet have a complete circulation of air all round it if possible. It should be so placed as not to be near the dust- bin or beer casks, or any other place from which dust, or putrid or other bad smells can arise; it should be inclosed all round with fly-wire panels in wood framing; and should be raised above the paving in order to admit air at bottom, and to keep it dry. The roof should be also of fly-wire, and it should be protected from rain by a boarded roof over it. The larder should be lofty, and should have strong iron bearers from one side to the other, with hooks to slide on them, so that the meat may hang above the head ; and there should be shelves all round to put dishes on. A separate safe should be provided for vegetables and fruits, and another for game if there is likely to be any quantity of it. For large larders there should be an inner door, with a space between the doors, to enable the cook to shut the one before she opens the other. For small families one or two iron safes hanging from some beam in the ceiling of the outer kitchen or cellar, or hung in an outhouse, or even in a shady place in the open air, contrived so as to be drawn up out of the way by lines and pulleys when not in use, with one or more shelves in each, and having fly-wire all round, are far better than safes placed against brick walls, as is now generally done.—[Maga- zine of Domestic Economy?\ LARDING. Have ready larding-pins of dif- ferent sizes, according to the article to be done; cut slices of bacon into bits of a proper length quite smooth, and put them into a suitable lai'd- ing-needle, with which pierce the skin and a very little of the meat, leaving t?ie bacon in, and the two ends of equal length outwards. Lard in rows the size you think fit. LARDNER'S PREPARED CHARCOAL. See Charcoal. LARK PIE. Choose a dozen fine larks, and let them be picked, drawn, and trussed. Save the entrails, and chop them to pieces in a wooden bowl; rasp some bacon, and mix it with them ; beat them well up together ; shred some mushrooms and put to this ; add some sage and parsley shred finely, some leaves of sweet herbs chopped, some pepper, a little salt, a blade of bruised mace, and a quarter of a nut- meg. When all are thoroughly mixed to- gether roll it up into a ball, divide it into twelve parts, and put one of them into the body of each lark. Put some crust into a baking pan, and spread oyer it sonae beef suetLAR LAR [ 125 1 and fat bacon pounded to a paste; make a seasoning of sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little mace; strew some of this upon the suet and bacon ; then lay in the larks regularly, and wherever there is a hollow among them put in a piece of pounded bacon. Dust some more of the seasoning over the larks; then lay on some thin slices of fresh butter; over these spread a covering of fine fat bacon in very thin slices, and then put on the top crust; rub it over with eggs, and send it to the oven to be done under a cover. When it comes from the oven take off the upper crust; take out the bacon, skim off the fat, and pour in some' very rich cullis of veal and ham. See that the larks lie regularly in it, and send it up hot. LARKS. These delicate little birds are in high season in November. When they are thoi'oughly picked, gutted, and cleaned, truss them, do them over mth yolk of egg, then roll them in bread crumbs, spit them on a lark spit, and fasten that on to a larger spit. Ten or fifteen minutes will be sufficient time to I'oast them before a quick fire Whilst they are roasting baste them with frest butter, and sprinkle them with bread crumbs till they are well covered with them; fiy some grated bread in butter, and set it to drain before the fire that it may harden. Serve with crumbs in the dish under the larks, and garnish with slices of lemon. LARKS : To Bake in Papers. Pick halx a dozen larks, and lay them ready; cut to pieces a couple of veal sweetbreads and four large fresh mushrooms ; put these into a stewpau, with some sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, some onions chopped, pepper and salt, ana a piece of butter; toss all up together, put in the larks, toss them up with the rest, and then set them off the fire. Prepare a case of paper suitable to the size of the dish and the quantity of the ingredients'; lay over the bottom of this some forcemeat, upon this place the larks evenly and carefully, and lay over some thin slices of bacon to cover them perfectly. Send them to the oven under the cover of a baking pan, and let them bake half an hour; then take them out, remove the fat, and when it is dished up pour over it a little very rich gravy; then squeeze in a quarter of a lemon, and send it up hot, garnished with lemon. LARKS: To Roast. Roast them, larded and covered with bacon ; or you may only cover one half with bacon, and lard the other. Leave in the trails, and put under them roasted bread to receive what falls. For a side dish they may be served in a variety of ways. LARKS EN CAiSSES. Pick, bone, and stuff your larks; have ready some small paper cases, dip them in warm oil, form the larks into balls, and put one, with a little farce under- neath, into each case. Set them on a baking tin covered with a buttered paper, to prevent them drying whilst baking. When done place them in a dish, drain off all the fat, squeeze in lemon juice, and pour a little Espagnole over them. LARKS EN CHIPOLATA. Have ready some roasted chestnuts, mushrooms, sausages, and slices of streaked bacon ; have a little but- ter in a saucepan, put in the bacon, and when they have had a few turns put in the sausages. As soon as they are done put in eight or ten larks ; when they are pretty firm take all three articles out, pour away half the butter, and put in the mushrooms; give them a few boils, and then stir in a spoonful of flour; pour over them a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, a little pepper, and a very small quantity of salt; give them a few boils, and then replace the bacon, sausages, and larks, with the chestnuts. These must only boil once, then take them out, and serve them. LARKS A LA GEINOISE. Toss up a few dry mushrooms in a little lard, and moisten them' with stock, veal gravy, and a glass of cham- pagne. Simmer your larks in this for an hour, and then let them cool. Grate a little Par- mesan cheese in a dish that will bear fire, mix a small quantity of grated bread with it, and place your larks on this layer of cheese ; pour over them the sauce they were dressed in, strew grated cheese and bread on them, and set them in a gentle stove for a quarter of an hour. LARKS AU GRATIN. Pick and boiie a dozen and a half of fat larks, season them with salt and pepper, and stuff them with a farce. Put some of the farce in a dish, lay the larks on it, with fried bread between each; lay slices of bacon over the whole, and put it in the oven for twenty minutes ; then drain off the fat, and serve with a well-seasoned Espagnole. LARKS IN JELLY. Put several larks into the jelly in what manner you think best, taking care that they lie separately. You may do any small birds you please in this manner. LARKS IN A MINUTE. Put some but- ter, slices of streaked bacon, and a few sausages into a stewpan. When quite hot put in eight or ten larks, take them out again" as soon as they are firm, pour away half the butter, and put into the pan a few mushrooms ; give them a boil up, and then add a little flour, a glass of white wine, a little watei', and vei-y small quantities of pepper and salt. In a few minutes put the larks in again, give the whole one boil, and then serve them. LARKS, RAGOtJT OF (1). Fry your larks with an onion stuck with cloves, and a few[ 126 ] LAU LAR truffles and mushrooms; pour off the fat, and shake over them a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, and stew them till they are sufficiently done. If there is any fat skim it off; put to it some lemon juice, and pepper and salt to your taste. LARKS, RAGOtJT OF (2). Pick, singe, and bone the larks ; put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and scallions, a slice of ham, and a scalded sweetbread cut in pieces ; simmer them a minute or two, and then add a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, and salt. When the larks are nearly done, and the liquor reduced, take out the ham, parsley, and scallions. Serve them with any stewed greens or a cuUis. LARKS, RAISED PIE OF (Hot). Make a raised crust in the usual way, lay some farce at the bottom of it, place some larks (boned) on it, lill up the pie with the same, cover, and lake it. When done take off the top crust, draw away what fat there may be, pour a rich 1 agout into it, season it very highly, and serve it open. LARKS, ROASTED (a la Fban9Aise). Pick and singe the larks, but do not empty them; wrap them in slices of bacon, fasten them on a spit, and roast them. Lay a toast in the dripping-pan under them. Serve the larks on this toast when done. LARKS, SALMIS OF. Having properly prepared your larks, cut them into quarters; take the livers and gizzards, bruise them, and then boil them in a little stock, red wine, minced shallots, salt, and pepper. In about a quarter of an hour put your birds into this, and simmer them an hour. Serve the salmis with fried bread round it. LARKS, STUFFED: To Bake. Choose about eight fine larks, pick them, draw them, and then prepare the following stuffing:— Shred very finely the white of a chicken, a small slice of boiled ham, and as much raw bacon; shred also some fresh sage leaves, and mix the whole together; put in a little pepper, a very little salt, and add a blade of mace shred. When these are all mixed divide it into two parts, and stuff the bodies of the larks with one half of it, saving the other to lay under them. Cut eight slices of fine bacon, big enough to wrap up the larks, spread over each slice of bacon some of the stuffing, and then lay one of the larks upon each slice ; wrap them up in the bacon, and place them side by side in a baking pan; put on the cover of the pan, and send it to the oven. When it comes home pour in some rich veal gravy, squeeze in a little lemon juice, and send it up. LAST. A certain measure of fish, corn, wool, leather, &c. A last of cod fish, white herrings, meal, and ashes for soap, is twelve barrels ; of corn or rape seed, ten quarters ; of gunpowder, twenty-four barrels ; of red herrings, twentj"^ cades or barrels, of 500 each; of hides, twelve dozen; of leather, twenty dickers, of ten hides each; of pitch and tar, fourteen bai'rels ; of wool, twelve sacks ; of stock fish, one thou- sand ; of flax or feathers, 1700 lbs. LATH. In building, a long, thin, and narrow slip of wood, nailed to the rafters of a roof or ceiling in order to sustain the covering. Laths are made of different lunds of wood, chiefly oak, ash, and deal. Oak laths are of two kinds— sap and heart. Deal laths are also of two kinds— those cleft for the purpose of plastering, and those sawn for tiling. Laths are also distin- guished according to their lengths—five feet, four feet, and three feet. They are sold by the bundle, containing one hundred. One hundred, however, of three-feet laths should contain one hundred and forty; of four feet, one hundi'ed and twenty; and of five feet, one hundred, or five score. In such cases the different lengths are all charged at the same price. Laths are usually made by first cleaving the timber out into proper lengths with wedges by the felt grain; that is, the grain which is seen to run round in rings at the end of a tree. They are afterwards cleft into their proper thickness with the chit by the quarter grain, which runs in a straight line towards the pith. LAUDANUM is made by soaking 1J oz. of powdered gum opium for fourteen days in a pint of proof spirit, and then straining it. Vinous laudanum, or wme of opium, is made by soaking in half a pint of sherry wine for eight days, and then straining, i oz. of powdered opium, J drachm of bruised cinnamon, and i drachm of bruised cloves. This vinous laudanum is an admirable application to eyes affected with chronic inflammation. Laudanum is an ano- dyne, and' often allays pain by being rubbed upon the seat of it. If taken internally the dose vai-ies from ten to sixty drops. LAUNDRY-MAID. Much responsibility rests on the laundry-maid. Independently of her having the care of the family linen, &c., in and through the wash, and after it has been ironed, aired, and put away to use, she will probably be required to take charge of the se- veral materials used in washing, such as soap, starch, blue, soda, and a variety of other little things which it is necessary always to have at hand. As it is not unlikely, too, that she may have to purchase such articles, she must not fail to make herself acquainted with their qua- lities, sorts, and prices, and the most economical modes of managing them. Then, again, she must see that the clothes baskets and clothes lines, props, pegSj andLAU LAU .[ 137 ] horses, are kept clean and dry, and ready for use; also that the washing and rinsing tubs are kept clean, the boiling coppers clean and free from verdigris, the irons of different sorts all clean and free from rust, the ironing board and the ironing blanket clean, and in a fit state for use; and that all iron utensils, and anything that can produce iron moulds or other stains, be carefully kept away from the wash-house and laundry. Soap, when very, new, is much heavier than when it is old, and heavier in damp than in dry weather, from the quantity of moisture which it absorbs. It is, therefore, an advantage to buy soap in dry, warm weather; and, for the sake of further economy, it should be kept some months before it is used. When brought home it should be cut with a piece of clean fine wire or twine into pieces of a convenient size for use. For the first fortnight or three weeks it should not be exposed to the air, as, if it be allowed to dry quickly, it will crack and break when wetted. After a time it should be placed on a shelf, with a small space between the pieces, and suffered to dry gradually. By adopting this method a full third of the quan- tity will be saved in the consumption. The soap to be preferred for washing is the best yellow, and having but a small quantity of alkali in its composition, it is less injurious to the hands than most other soaps. Soft soap, being exceedingly strong, is desirable for some pur- poses. For fine and delicate textures, such as lace, &c., the white or curd soap is preferred. Soda (Scotch soda is best), by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be dissolved in a large jug of water. The solution should be poured into tubs and boilers, and when the latter becomes weak more should be added. Starch varies in price according to the price of flour. The best starch will keep good in a dry, warm room for years. As clothes baskets for receiving the linen, &c., in different stages of operation, must be kept scrupulously clean, they should be occasionally washed with warm water and soap, and a scrub- bing-brush, to remove such dust and dirt as may have lodged in the interstices, after which they should be well rinsed with cold water, and hung up to dry in the open air. They should be kept in a dry room, and before using be wiped with a damp cloth. Clothes lines should never be allowed to re- main abroad when out of use. When done with they should be carefully wiped, and if wet hung up in the open air to dry, after which they should be put away in a bag. Before they are used again they should also be wiped, to prevent them from soiling or marking the linen. For the same reason clothes props and clothes horses should be wiped before and after using, and also clothes pegs. The pegs should be kept in a dry room, and preserved from the dust in a s trong linen bag. Pins should be used as sparingly and as care- fully as possible for securing fine articles, such as muslins, &c., on the lines, because vvhen the ■wind is high they are very liable to be torn. For the sake of economy in fuel, and also for the avoidance of smoke and blacks, cinders or coke should be burnt in-the copper furnaces.— {Finchley Manual.) In preparing the linen for the wash the laundry-maid must first collect all the sheets, towels, pillow-cases, and toilet cloths from the bags in the bedrooms ; all the gowns, petticoats, chemises, handkerchiefs, caps, shirts, collars, cravats, waistcoats, light trousers, and stock- ings, all the tablecloths, dinner napkins, coarse cloths, and towels from the kitchen, and throw them on the floor of the room used for the purpose. Then sort them into heaps, such as bedroom towels in one heap, coarse towels in another, sheets, shirts, gowns, waistcoats, each in a separate heap. The stockings draw one into the other, to keep them in pairs; exa- mine each article separately, to ascertain what may require mending ; and the most economical way is to have such things as may require mending, excepting stockings, mended before they are washed, that they may not receive further injury in the washing. But some ladies prefer having them tied up by themselves, washed, rough-dried, mended afterwards, and then finished by folding and ironing, or man- gling. If sent to the laundress, having sorted all the things properly, make out a list of them, naming the articles, and the number of them in each; as, three tablecloths, five napkins, two gowns, seven shirts, and so on. Soft water is best for washing, and should be exposed for a few days to the sun, and allowed to settle. Hard water may be softened by lay- ing chalk in the bottom of the wells or ponds ; and if boiled, the day before it be used, with some finely sifted wood ashes and pearl ashes, according to the quantity of water, it will ansv/er extremely well the purposes of washing. Some persons at a great wash tie pearl.ashes in a cloth, and let them lie in the water they are to use for washing, and when they boil the clothes hang the bag with the ashes in the copper. This they do with common water, in which they also sometimes boil wood ashes. It is usual for some servants to soap their clothes well overnight, then put them into the copper, and early next morning heat the water, after which they take out the clothes, and so go to washing ; but this is a bad method, for, insteadLAU LAU r 128 ] of looseniug the Jirt, it fixes it iu tliem if the water should be in the least degree too hot, and makes it scarcely possible ever to clean them. The following is a better method, and will not give half the trouble:—Wet the linen with warm water, and rub it over with soap ; then rub the clothes between your hands very hard, and that will loosen the dirt. After that let them lie in hot water till next morning, then wash as usual, and there will be no occasion for more soap till the second lather. Chintz and fine printed cottons should be first thrown into pump water an hour before washing them, and when wrung out of that let them be washed in strong clear suds; but if there be any fine colours, as blue, yellow, or green, they must not be soaped at all, for that will draw out the colour, nor washed in too hot water. Then wring them out of those suds'? and after that, shaking them well, throw them into pump water immediately, for they should not be longer in hot water than they are washing, nor kept longer out of the pump water than they are shaking, otherwise the colours will run. Do them thus till they have gone through three suds ; and having then rinsed and blued them, immediately hang them up to dry, not letting any part, if possible, touch one another. Starch them when dry, then hang them up again, and when dry enough for ironing fold and iron them directly; but do not let them lie too long together. When the colours, with former bad washing, are run into the white ground, wash the cloth in three lathers, but without putting it into pump water. After that rinse the cloth, and then put it into a pail of soft water, mixed with half a pint of the best white wine vinegar, letting it remain there an hour or two, in which time all the colours run into the ground will be discharged and the cloth look clear and fine. To wash thread and cotton stockings. Let them have two lathers and a boil, having blued the water well; wash them out of the boil, but do not rinse them; then turn the wrong sides outwards, and fold them very smooth and even, laying them one upon another, and a board over them, with a weight to press them smooth. Let them lie thus about a quarter of an hour, after which hang them up to dry, and, when thoroughly so, roll them up tightly with- out ironing, by which means they will look like new. To wash worsted stockings. This should he done in two cool lathers, but there ought to be no soap rubbed on them; after which let them be rinsed well, then turned and folded like cot- ton stockings, and after that dried and rolled up tightly. Before the laundress begins washing she should take care that all stains oi spots le taken out of the linen. Old soap, as we have already observed, goes further than new, and. gives a better colour. As soon as the linen is fit for ironing there should be no time lost, for it is apt to turn yellow by lying damp. Fine linen should not be so dry as coarse when ironed; and thus it will be stiff, and look like new. Starch for small linen. Having wetted \ lb. of starch, mixed with a little powder blue so as it will bruise, add to it half a pint of water, and then pour them into a quart of water boiling on the fire. Stir well, and let the stai'ch boil at least a quarter of an hour, for it cannot be boiled too well; neither will the linen iron nor look well unless the starch be thoroughly boiled. After the starch is strained dip the linen into it, and then squeeze it out Dip first those things you would have stiffest, but do not rub them in the starch; and, accordingly as you want the starch stiff or thin, add or diminish. Some put gum arable, alum, and candle into the starch as it boils • but these are prejudicial, and if anything be added let it be isinglass, about I oz. to I lb. of stai'ch. for that will help to stiffen and make them clear, but it should not be used to laces. A kettle of bell-metal is the most proper vessel to boil starch in. To wash silk stockings and handkerchiefs. Some make a strong lather with soap pretty hot, then lay the stocldngs on a table, and with a rolled coarse rough cloth rub them hard, turn- ing them several times from one side to the other till they have passed through three lathers. Then they rinse them in three or four waters till all the soap is taken out, and when quite clear hang them up without wringing to dry, with the wroiig sides outwards They take them down when about half dry, and, pulling them out with their hands into shape, let them lie some time, and then iron them on the wrong side. Others wash them in two cold lathers, with blue added to the second, and do not rinse, but turn them ; then turning them, pull them smooth, press them, dry and roll them up tightly. Laying stockings in soak before wash- ing spoils their colour. Handkerchiefs should first be washed in cold water, but never in hot, for that quite spoils them, and then in luke- warm suds; then rinse, smooth, fold, and dry them. To clean cast ribbons. First sprinkle them with fair water, and then smooth them out, after which lay them on a carpet or clean cloth at full breadth, and brush them gently with a thin lather of Castile soap ; then rub them till they are clean in water wherein a little alum and white tartar have been dissolved, after which the colours will be fixed in them from further fading; but you must take care to dryL AZ LAU [ 129 ] tliem in the sun, and smooth them with a glass sHck-stone LAUREL [Cerasus lauro-cerasus). The leaves have a flavour resembling that of the bitter almond, and are used for flavouring custards, blanc-mangers, puddings, &c. They are more safe than oil or essence of bitter almonds for this purpose ; but, as the flavour of both arises from the hydrocyanic or prussic acid which they contain, even these leaves must not be used in excess. LAUREL WATER. Fresh laurel leaves chopped, 1 lb.; water, three pints. Distil over one pint, and mix with it 1 oz. of the compound spirit of lavender. It contains hydrocyanic acid, and is poisonous. Two- thirds of an ounce have been known to cause death. LAVEMENT. See Clyster. LAVENDER (Larawdw^a vera). It originally came from the south of Europe, where it grows abundantly on barren hills and declivities. The whole plant is bitter and aromatic, with warm- ing and exciting properties. It is tonic, cephalic, stimulating to the nervous system, and good against diseases of debility, such as disordered stomach, intestinal flatulence, passive hemor- rhages, leucorrhoea, and some gonorrhoeas. From the flowers and flower-stalks an essential oil is obtained by distillation, which, however, is always of superior quality when taken from the flowers alone. Oil of lavender is very fluid, of a lemon-yellow colour, having the odour of the flowers, and an aromatic, burning taste. The oil of lavender is chiefly used as a perfume, though possessed of carminative and stimulant properties. A few drops in drinks is beneficial against some nervous diseases, hysteria, trem- blings, vertigo, catalepsis, stammering, and paralysis, for which it is said to have a great reputation. It furnishes a perfume known as huile antique de lavande, which is composed of 3 ozs. of the essential oil, added to 1 lb. of the oil of ben ; and it is one of the ingredients of eau de Cologne. Lavender water is obtained by distilling the flowers of lavender with diluted alcohol. The dried flowers and flower-stalks are frequently tied in bundles, and kept in wardrobes for their fine perfume. The plant is extensively cultivated in Surrey for the flowers. L. spica is broad - leaved lavender, and is also a native of the south of Europe and north of Africa, where it grows along with the preceding species. It is from the flower of this that the oil of spike, or aspic, is obtained. It is yellowish, acrid, warm, aromatic, and of a penetrating odour; used in the arts for making varnishes, by artists for painting on porcelain, and also in medicine. It is sometimes adulterated vrith oil of turpentine, and sometimes with VOL. ir. alcohol. Its specific gravity is 0'9206. When allowed to stand in imperfectly stoppered bottles it deposits stearoptine, which often amounts to one-fourth of the weight of the oil. In Pro- vence blotting paper is soaked in the oil, and applied to the heads of children to destroy vermin in the skin; and it is also employed in friction against paralysis. LAVENDER DROPS are the compound tincture of lavender. Mix together spirit of lavender, | pint; spirit of rosemary, \ pint; rasped red sanders wood, 2 drachms ; cin- namon, \\ drachm ; nutmeg, 1 drachm. Let them soak fourteen days, and then strain through blotting paper. This mixture is stimulating, cordial, and stomachic. Dose, one to three tea-spoonsful. Given in faintness, flatulence, hysteria, lowness of spirits, &c. LAVENDER VINEGAR (1). Take 4 lb. of lavender leaves, dry them quickly, and put them into a jug, with a gallon of the best white vine- gar ; set it in the sun, closely covered, for a week ; then draw it off, press the dregs, filter through blotting paper, and bottle it. Keep them closely eoi'ked. LAVENDER VINEGAR (2). Prepare a jar of the proper size, and to every pint of vine- gar add ^ oz. of fresh lavender flowers and some rinds of lemon; leave them to infuse twenty- four hours ; put the jar, well luted, upon hot cinders for eight or ten hours without boiling, and pass it through a bag or filter. Bottle, and keep it closely waxed. LAVENDER WATER. See Eau de La- vande. LAVER CAKE. This is a mai-itime plant, which grows among the sand in the crevices of the rocks on the coast of Devonshire and Corn- wall. It is baked in pots by the natives, and then sent to all parts of England. The common method of cooking it is by frying it in butter and flour; but some culinary authors advise that it should be set in a dish over a lamp, with a little butter and the squeeze of a Seville orange. It must be stirred all the time till it is hot. This article, though not pleasant to the eye, is agreeable to the taste, and an excellent anti- scorbutic. LAXATIVE. See Aperient. LAZANGE SOUP WITH CHEESE. The lazange is a paste resembling macaroni, the only difference consisting in its being flat, somewhat like a bean, instead of being in pipes. Wash and boil it in stock, like rice, with a little salt, and drain it in a cullender; lay some of the lazange at the bottom of a soup dish, with some piecrs of butter on it, and strew grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese over them ; then put a layfr of lazanges, and so on alternately till the dish be full, taking care, however, that the last layer ELEA LEA [ 130 ] is cheese. Colour it v?ith a salamander, pour some good stock over, and serve it. LAZANGES. The only difference between these and nouilles is that the lazanges are cut rather larger. Great care must be taken not to dress them too much. IjEAD, as v?e all know, speedily becomes dull when exposed to the air, the dulness arising from a greyish blue crust covering the surface of the metal. That crust is first an oxide and then a carbonate of lead, formed by the metal combining first with the oxygen, and then with the carbonic acid of the air. This crust was known to the Eomans, and is still known as ceruse. Vitruvius, the Roman archi- tect, in the days of Augustus, noticed that this ceruse was formed in lead pipes, and, on account of its poisonous quality, forbade the use of such pipes for conveying water for domestic use. Dr. Christison and other good authorities found that distilled water, deprived of its gases and excluded from contact with the air, has no action whatever on lead. If this water contains the customary gases the surface of the metal soon becomes white, but this speedily ceases if the surface of the water be not exposed to the air. In that case, and if the air has free access, a white powder soon forms around the lead ; and this increases until, after a few days, a large number of white pearly scales ai'e produced, •which partly float in the water, but are chiefly deposited on the bottom of the vessel. These scales are, on analysis, found to be a carbonate. During this experiment a very minute quantity of lead is actually dissolved in the water. Our common spring water, however, contains more or less of neutral salts, and, to make the inquiry practically useful, it becomes necessary to ascertain their influence in promoting or impeding the action on the lead. Guyton- Morveau found that if he added a solution of either sulphate of lime or muriate of soda (salts very common in spring water), to distilled water, its power of attacking lead was destroyed. Dr. Christison extended this investigation to many other salts, and found that they all impaired the power of the water, and that even when the carbonate was formed in very minute quantities it was deposited so slowly, and adhered so closely to the lead, that it could hardly be supposed to diffuse itself through the liquid. It is an evident deduction from the researches of Dr. Christison, that in proportion to the purity of the water and the presence of carbonic acid will be the action on the metal. A very few years since the royal buckhounds ■were attacked with a disease for which no other name could be suggested but " foot lameness." It defied all veterinary skill, until it was sug- gested that, as nearly ail the pack were similarly- afflicted, there must be some one common cause for its occurrence. Then it was sunnised that it was the soil's malaria; but upon further examination it was found that the water was conveyed to the troughs through a lead pipe. The pipe was removed, and the foot lameness, which was really paralysis, disappeared. Different articles of food or drink may be contaminated with this substance. If the food contain any free vegetable acids or saline preparations it will attack utensils made of lead, and oxidate, and, indeed, in some cases dissolve them. This circumstance seems to have been known to the ancients. Their tin was all adulterated with lead ; and Galen, assigning this as a reason, cautions against the use of tinned vessels, and recommends the pre- servation of medicines in glass ones. Earthen vessels glazed with lead are also very apt to be acted on by vegetable acids. Vinegar corrodes them, and if thei'e be any particle of food within, the oxide or acetate tliat is produced will mix with it. A case occurred some years ago at Northampton, in America, where a family, consisting of eight individuals, were all seized with colic pains, strong con- vidsive spasms of the intestines, frequent vomit- ings, and obstinate costiveness, in consequence of eating stewed apples which had been kept for some months in a large earthen vessel. Ou examination the glazing was found corroded, and a solution from the stewed apples exhibited the chemical proofs indicative of the metal. Dr. Eberle also states that he saw four cases in 1815, arising from apple butter being kept in these vessels. On examining one of them a thin crust of acetate of lead was seen covering its internal surface. Milk slightly sour has also acted on vessels of this description. The adulteration of wines by lead appears to be an old device, and it has been much used, since it destroys their austerity, gives them a sweet taste, and renders them saleable. Beckmann supposes that the ancients were acquainted with the fact that lead rendered harsh wines milder; for Pliny remarks that, when the Greek and Eoman wine merchants wished to try whether their wine was spoiled, they immersed in it a plate of lead, which could only be to observe whether by corrosion the colour of the lead was changed. It was not until the fifteenth century that the use of lead in wines became so notorious as to call for prohibitions on the part of governments in Germany; and the adulteration of this article appears to have been a subject of deliberation at the diet of Rothenburgh in 1487, and the diet of Worms in 1495. In France this species of villany was carried to a great excess. The DukeLEA [ 131 LEA of Wirtemberg, by a decree dated Marcb 10th, 1690, declared it capital to mix litharge (oxide of lead) in wine, or even to sell litharge in the shops; and individuals were punished with death for the infraction of this decree. At the present day we have every reason to believe that sugar of lead is frequently employed by unprincipled dealers. Cider adulterated by lead has also frequently proved injurious, and, indeed, to such an extent, that the disease known by the name of the Devonshire colic has been deemed to originate from this cause. We are aware that other "causes have been assigned, but it is sufiScient for our present purpose that this fluid, among others, has excited the symptoms in question; and it is certainly well established that cider boiled in leaden vessels has produced death to those drinking it, and that the racking of it in a leaden cistern, or even the grinding of the apples in troughs which are united by lead, has been the origin of serious illness. LEAMINGTON WATER. The village of Leamington, two miles from Warwick, and forty from Cheltenham, has acquired considerable re- putation, on account of containing springs of a strong saline water, which supply numerous cold and hot baths. These springs contain chloride of sodium, sulphate of soda, chloride of magnesium, a small quantity of sulphate of magnesia, and a very large portion of sul- phate of lime. They gently affect the bowels in a moderate dose, and are consequently useful in all diseases where a purgative operation is required. To form this water artificially dis- solve in '^8 fluid ozs. of water the following salts:—Chloride of sodium (common salt), 96 grains; chloride of calcium crystals, 45 grains; chloride of magnesium crystals, 34 grains; sulphate of soda (Glauber's salt) crystals, 13 grains; then add 4 fluid ozs. of sulphuretted hydrogen water. LEATHER is curried for boots, shoes, &c., thus :—The hide is first soaked thoroughly in water, then placed on a polished wooden beam, with the flesh side outwards, and pared with a broad sharp knife till all the inequalities are removed, and it is reduced to the requisite thin- ness. It is then again washed, and rubbed with a polished stone, and while wet is be- smeared with oil, generally cod oil, or a mixture I of this and tallow. When hung up to dry the I moisture evaporates, and the oil, which cannot j be dissipated by mere exposure, gradually takes the place of the moisture, and penetrates deeply into the pores of the leather. It is then dried either in the sun or in a stoved room. The leather is blacked on the grain side simply by rubbing it with an iron liquor, made with sulphate of iron, or some such material. On the flesh side the blacking of the leather con- sists of lampblack and oil. Tawed or dressed leather is made chiefly from the lighter and more delicate skins of lambs, sheep, goats, and calves. Though there is no little difference between the dressing of chamois leather, alum leather, Hungary leather, morocco leather, parchment, and tanning, yet the skins which pass through the hands of the several workmen ought to be, for the most part, at least, washed clean from blood and impurities in running water; set to drain, worked with the hands, or pounded with wooden pestles, in vats; put into the pit filled with water, in which quicklime is dissolved, in order to loosen the hair; and passed through a variety of other processes, in order to render them fit for any subsequent operation of tanning or dye- ing, and chamoising. In this state the skins are called joeZfs. If the pelts are to be tawed they are put into a solution of alum and salt in warm water, in the proportion of about 3 lbs. of alum and 4 lbs. of salt to every 120 middle- sized skins, and worked about therein till they have absorbed a sufficient quantity. They are then taken out, washed in water, then put into a vat of bran and water, and allowed to ferment for a time, until much of the alum and salt is got out, and the thickening caused by them is, for the most part, reduced. They are now stretched on hooks in a lofty room, with a stove in the middle, and remain there till fully dry. After this, to give them a glossy finish, they are again soaked in water, to ex- tract more of the salt, and then put into a pail containing the yolk of eggs beaten up with water. Here they are trodden for a long time, by which means they imbibe the substance of the egg. After this they are dried, and finished by glossing with a warm iron. Tawing, there- fore, appears to consist in the leather's imbibing something from the alum and salt, possibly alumine, which is certainly never again ex- tracted by the subsequent washings &c. Chamoised leather is generally sheep or doe- skin, prepared in the way mentioned for alum and tawed leather, dyed if necessary, and then finished in linseed oil. This forms the common coach leather, breeches leather, &c., and is the only kind which, when dyed, will bear washing without the colour l"^ing materi- ally injured. Dyed leather. The colour* given to leather are various, sometimes dependent upon mere fancy, and sometimes upon real utility. The materials employed are also various, according to the country in which the process takes place. For English morocco leather the skin is taken after it is cleaned, and worked, as already de>LEA LEA [ 132 J scribed under tawed leather, from the lime water; and the thickening thereby occasioned is brought down by a bath of dogs' or pigeons' dung, diffused in water, where it remains till sufficiently supple, the lime being got out, and the skin made a perfectly white clean pelt. When it is to be dyed red it is sewed up in the form of a sack, with the grain side out- wards, and immersed in a cochineal bath of a warmth just equal to what the hand can sup- port, and is worked about a sufficient time till it is uniformly dyed. The sack is then put into a large vat containing sumach, infused in warm water, and kept for some hours there till it is sufficiently tanned. Skins intended to be blacked are merely sumached without any previous dyeing. The skins thus coloured are di'ied and polished as follows:—They are first stretched very .tightly upon a smooth inclined board, and rubbed over with a little oil to supple them. Those intended for black leather are previously rubbed over with iron liquor by means of a stiff brush, which instantly strikes a deep and uniform black: they are then po- lished with a polygonal ball of glass. Lastlj^ they are grained or ribbed by rubbing the grained surface of the leather very strongly with a ball of box-wood, cut in a proper manner for the desired purpose. In the process for making real morocco leather the skins, after coming from the bran, are thrown into a second bath made of white figs mi.\ed with water. In this they remain four or five days, when they are thoroughly salted with rock salt alone, after which they are fit to receive the dye, which, for the red, is cochineal and alum ; for yellow, pomegranate bark and alum. The skins are then tanned and dressed with a little oil, and dried. Much excellent leather, and of various dyes, is manufactured in Russia. The Saffian, or Manoquin, is prepared largely at Astracan, from buck and goat skins. Shagreen is also manu- factured at the same place. It consists only of horses' or asses' hides ; and of these only a small part, cut from the crupper line along the back in a semicircular form, about thirty-four inches upon the crupper, and twenty-eight along the back. The chief dyes are green, black, and blue. A blue colour is given to leather by immer- sing the skius for twenty-four hours in urine and indigo, after which it is boiled in alum; or the indigo may be mixed with red wine, and' the skins immersed in it. Red may be made by first washing the skins, then soaking thein for two hours in an infusion of galls, which is to be wrung out; after which they are to be immersed in a liquor prepared by a solution of privet, alum, and verdigris in water, when they must be steeped in a dye made of Brazil-wood boiled with lye. Purple is made by wetting the skins with a solution of roche alum in warm water ; and when dry they are rubbed by the hand with a de- coction of logwood in cold water. A light green may be communicated to leather by sap-green, diluted with boiled alum water; a dark green cast, by steel filings, and sal ammo- niac steeped in urine for a considerable time. Yellow is given by a decoction of aloes and linseed oil, or by a solution of dyers' groen- weed ; an orange by fustic berries boiled in alum water ; a deeper orange by turmeric. Shagreen is a sort of rough leather prepared from the skin of the spotted shark. The skin of the fish is first stripped, then extended on a table, and covered with bruised mustard seed. It is thus exposed to the weather for several days, and afterwards tanned. The best sha- green imported from Constantinople is of a brownish cast, and veiy hard; but when im- mersed in water it becomes soft and pliable, and may be dyed of any colour. It is often counter- feited by preparing morocco leather in the same manner as the skin of the fish. This fraud may be detected by the surface of the spurious manu- facture peeling or scaling off, while that of the genuine article remains perfectly sound. Sha- green is employed principally in the manufac ture of cases for mathematical instruments. Waterproof leather. To render leather water- proof the following method is adopted:—Take a sniall pipkin or earthen vessel, and put in it 3 ozs. of spermaceti, to be melted over a slow fire; then take f oz. of caoutchouc, or Indian rubber, cut into thin slices, and the spermaceti will completely dissolve this substance; add 8 ozs. of tallow, 2 ozs. of hog's lard, and 4 ozs. of amber varnish. The boots or shoes must be rendered dry and warm, and this cement well rubbed in three or four times with a brush. LEAVEN. See Bread. LEAVES: To Green for Ornamenting Fruit. Take small leaves fi'om a pear ti-ee, keep them closely stopped in a pan of verjuice and water, and give them a boil in some syi'up of apricots; put them between two pieces of glass to dry, smooth and cut them into the shape of apricot leaves (the leaves should be procured with stalks), and stick them about the apricots, or any other preserved fruits; but the leaves must be cut in the shape of the leaf whicli belongs to the fruit you ornament. LEAVES: To Skeletonise. We believe that this may be most readily effected by soak- ing them in a weak solution of chloride of lime, or bleaching powder; but the usual mode of reducing a leaf to a skeleton is by subjecting it[ 133 1 LEE LEE to slow decay. The leaf of the birch, which has two layers of nerves, gives a very beautiful skeleton; but that of the orange, which has three layers, is the most exquisite we have ever seen. The process of reducing them to a ske- leton is very simple. Select perfect leaves, and put them in a pan of very hot water, about 200°; let them remain in this for a fortnight or three weeks, without changing the water; take them out, and, if sufGciently soft- ened and decayed, place them one at a time on a flat board, holding the leaf by its stalk, and drawing the edge of a knife gently over the upper surface of the leaf. If this is decayed sufficiently the skin, or the chief part of it, will come off easily. Then turn the leaf, and take off the skin from that side in a similar manner. The skin being off from both sides, wash out in clean water the pulpy matter re- maining among the nerves, and the skeleton will be produced. If the skin does not readily leave the surface of a leaf it has not been a suf- ficient length of time in the water. Some leav.es will not bear the water in which they are put being very hot, and the only advantage is thai it hastens the progress of decay. For the same purpose the pan of water should be kept in a closet or elsewhere, at a temperature of about 70°. LEECHES. The Hirudo medicinalis, or medical leech, is from three to four inches in length. Its body is of a dark brown colour, with six yellow spots on the back, and a similar yellow line on each side, though in some seasons these distinguishing marks are rather imperfect, and almost totally disappear. Its head is srnaller than the tail, and adheres very firmly. This species is viviparous, inhabits clear running waters, and jjroduces in July only one J'oung insect at a time. The medicinal leech is the only one used for local bleedings. It may be applied with great safety and advantage, especially for obstinate headaches arising from fulness of blood, as well as in many cases of external inflammation, with a view to extract the thick and superfluous humour with which the vessels are overcharged. If the leech will not readily fix itself a few drops of milk may be rubbed on the spot where it is to perform the operation, or a little blood may be drawn by making a slight puncture, after which it will immediately settle. When employed for relieving the piles, or to extract blood from the gums, it is requisite to secure the insect with a piece of rush, to prevent it either from creeping into the anus or gullet, in wTiich cases it would occasion great distress in the stomach or intestines. To induce the leech to quit its hold when it adheres longer than required, a little common salt may be strewed on its head. On the contrai-y, if it be intended to draw a larger quantity of blood, the tail of the leech should be cut off, in consequence of which it continues to draw blood in order to repair the loss it has sustained. The discharge occasioned by the puncture of a leech is easily stopped with brandy, vinegar, &c., or" may bo kept open by applying warm fomentations. To apply leeches successfully it is essential that the patient's skin be perfectly clean and soft, and, as commonly a lotion has been used to the part before the leeches are employed, considerable attention is often required before this can be washed entirely off. Hot water with soap must first be used until the part is clean, and then the soap must be carefully removed by means of pure water. When the skin is in this state leeches will bite very readily when they are fresh and hungry. The best mode of applying them is to let the leech crawl on a dry piece of linen for a little time; or better, if it has been kept in a vessel without water for some time beforehand, to take it in a bit of soft linen between the thumb and finger, and, when it projects its pointed mouth from between the folds of the linen, to direct it to the spot intended for it to act on. In this way the leech will generally fasten at the first touch, and it will at all events fasten more readily, since it is prevented from cover- ing the skin with slime, and thus sheathing it from its own bite and that of other leeches. The most skilful appliers of leeches use this method, and they gain celebrity by thus throwing them on the part, as some of them express it. Another way is to put the leeches into a wine- glass or pill-box, and then to invert the glass or box on the proper part. This method does not answer when the leeches are not lively, for they will fix on the sides of the vessels so as not to be again made to touch the skin. This difficulty may generally be obviated by putting more leeches into the vessel or vessels than are wis'hed to be applied, and removing them when the proper number have adhered. In cases of difficulty it is often advantageous to cover the part with cream or milk, or better to touch the head of the leech with a drop of vinegar; or to make small incisions in the skin (of the operator, perhaps, if the patient be a sleeping child) by means of a lancet; or, if ,one leech has adhered, to take it off again, and use the blood to entice others to do likewise. ^ Mr. Thomson says, in the " London Dispensa> tory," that a leech may certainly be made to bite on any assigned spot by putting it into a quill which is open at both ends, and, after placing the end containing the leech's head on the part, stopping up the other end by means of theLEE LEE t 134 ], finger. This informatiou is valuable, at least if tbe plan prove generally successful, in cases where leeches are required close to an important part, as near the eye, or on the gums, &c. ; but it is to bo feared that the quill would be as likely to fail as the common leech-glass, both being used on the same principle, and the latter being confessedly an inefifective instrument. The pain of biting generally ceases in a short time after the leech has adhered; but if the patient be so placed as that the leech hangs as it were from the point of adhesion, the pain is in some individuals increased, and continues till the leech falls off. Leeches should not remain on the part for more than ten or fifteen minutes. If they do not then fall off it will be found that they have been sluggish, and are not full; and the same thing will be shown by the want of that vermi- cular motion on the neck of the leech, which is so perceptible when it draws vigorously. In these cases it may often be made more active by touching its head with vinegar. As it sometimes happens that leeches, when indolent, will thus remain on the part for hours, it is better to remove them if they are indisposed to suck. This may be done by the application of a very little salt to their heads; and, as the after-bleeding is generally more advantageous than the drawing of the leech itself, very little loss is sustained by removing them before they are filled with blood. Treatment of leeches after their removal. Great waste is occasioned by unskilfulness in attending to leeches after they fall off. By proper care they may be made to act again and again; for, when it is considered that blood is the natural food of leeches, it must follow that some fault in our treatment causes their death, and not their having made a hearty meal on food that is natural to them, , It may happen, indeed, that the blood in certain states of disease acts as a poison, and destroys them, many persons having stated that they fall off dead, in some cases, before any application is made to them; but this is at least problematical, and perhaps unlikely. The common practice of covering them with salt is almost always destructive ; and even by sprinkling a small quantity on their bodies, if death do not follow, it generally happens that the leech is blistered by the salt, and made incapable of acting again for a consider- able time. Squeezing out the blood is better than the application of salt in any form ; but the best mode is to touch them with vinegar, which, if spai-ingly applied, will make them vomit, so that they may be re applied again immediately, even to the third or fourth time, or, by re- turning them into clean water, be ready for another occasion. When leeches are treated in this way, and especially if they be allowed to keep perhaps a fourth part of the blood which they have swallowed, they are not only capable of acting repeatedly, but in skilful hands may be made to gi'ow to an immense size. Under one gentleman's care a set of leeches were in this way preserved for a great length of time, and at last they grew to the length of nearly eight inches. It was want of care that destroyed them even after all this. These leeches were not once emptied of their blood, and yet they often were used again at an in- terval of only a few days. It is an eiToneous idea to suppose that leeches die if they are not emptied of their blood ; the only inconvenience of permitting them to retain it all is, that they then remain inactive, and incapable of being used for a longer time than if treated differently. Encouraging the bleeding after the leeches have fallen off. This is generally done by cover- ing the bites with sponge or cloths wrung out of warm water. In many cases this is a very good plan, because it subjects the part to a useful kind of emollient fomentation, as when the leeches are applied for local external inflammations, such as of joints or other parts, or to tumours. In other cases, however, this fomentation is not so useful, as when leeches are applied to the head for the headache, or for the hydroce- phalus of children. On such occasions it is a good plan to bind a napkin round the bleeding part, and change it as often as it may be neces- sary ; or in hydrocephalus to resume the use of any cold application to the head, which will generally form part of the treatment. It is true that, by so doing, the bleeding is sooner stopped ; but this difficulty is obviated by applying more leeches in the first instance, which will secure the proper quantity of blood being drawn, and at less trouble to the patient. The difficulty of stopping the bleeding of leeches forms no objection to this plan, because with very moderate attention the bites of leeches may always be commanded. Another method of encouraging the bleeding of leeches is to apply a warm bread-and-water poultice over the bites, and change it once in about five minutes. This answers very well if care be taken not to apply the poultice too hot, for it often happens that the bleeding of leeches is in this way prematurely arrested. When it is desirable to take away as much blood as possible, and the part will admit of it, a cupping-glass applied over the leech bites will increase the bleeding very much. Of course[ 135 ] LEE LEG this plan is not applicable when the leeches are used for external inflammations: indeed, in such cases leeches are particularly valuable, because cupping cannot be resorted to. Stopping the bleeding of leech bites. The bleeding of leech bites is very uncertain, the orifices often closing soon after the leeches have fallen off, so that but little blood is obtained ; whilst they will as often continue to bleed most profusely for many hours, and in this way either endanger the life of the child, to whom it gene- rally occurs, or reduce him to a state of great weakness. This is by no means an unfrequent occur- rence, and cases are recorded in which death has followed the application of even a limited number of leeches. Medical men generally calculate on the con- tinuance of bleeding for three or four hours ; but they are often sent for in a great hurry to calm the apprehensions of the patient's friends by closing the oozing orifices. These appre- hensions are generally unfounded; but in al- most all cases it is found that, from ignorance of the proper mode of stopping the bleeding, the nursery is a scene of confusion and helpless terror. Practitioners often smile on these occasions, in wonder that it should not sometimes occur to an unprofessional person, that a finger placed on each of the leech bites will command the bleed- ing for as long a time as it is held there, and that thus all apprehension may be, in every instance, calmed in a moment. But no; the fright of the moment takes away all reasoning power, the child is covered with bundles of cloths or a mass of flour, or hat fur, or other similar substances, from under which the blood issues in defiance of means so inefficient. Neither hair powder, nor flour, nor the fur of hats, nor other applications of that kind, will be of the least avail where the bleeding is so violent as to require to be restrained by artificial means. There are, however, numerous modes of restraining bleeding from leech bites, several of which are at the command of every one. A finger placed on the orifice commands the bleeding, as is stated above ; but, as the blood in drying glues it to the skin, the bleeding generally recurs, on account of the violence necessary in removing the finger; or it is in- convenient to hold it there long enough per- manently to close the orifice in the bleeding vessel. It is easy to turn this gluing property of the blood to good account. A lady had a leech bite on her temple which bled profusely, in spite of the skilful application of caustic, which is in almost every case effectual. A bit of rag, half an inch square, was placed on the leech bite, care being taken that the part was at the moment as free from blood as possible. This bit of linen was held on by the finger. In about five minutes it was found that the blood had glued the linen to the part; and as sufficient blood had not been allowed to collect underneath to wet the linen through, and thus fasten the finger to the linen, the former was removed, the linen remained, and the bleeding did not return. LEEK, SCOTCH, SOUP. Put the water in which a leg of mutton has been boiled into a stewpan, with a quantity of chopped leeks, pepper, and salt, and simmer them an hour; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water till quite smooth, pour it into the soup, and let it simmer gently over a slow fire, taking great care that it does not burn at the bottom. LEEK SOUP. Wash and cut some leeks in pieces about an inch in length, and give them a few turns over the fire in some butter; then add broth to them, and when they have simmered in it for about three quarters of an hour soak your bread in the usual manner, and pour on it the leeks and soup. LEEKS are most generally used for soups, ragouts, and other made dishes. They are very rarely brought to table. LEEKS WITH TOASTS. Take a dozen fine leeks, split them nearly in half, and wash well; tie them like asparagus, and put them into a stewpan of boiling water, with a handful of salt. When well done put them on a sieve to drain. In the meantime make two thick toasts, well butter them, and serve the leeks upon them. LEG, BROKEN. {See Fractures.) In the absence of a surgeon reduce the pieces of the bones into their natural situation; secure and keep them in their place by proper bandages and splints, and try to prevent unpleasant symp- toms ; and relieve them when, in spite of every efl"ort to the contrary, they do arise. When a leg is broken the patient must keep his bed for several weeks. It is by no means necessary, however, that he should lie all that time, as is customary, upon his back. This situation sinks the spirits, galls and frets the patient's skin, and renders him very uneasy. After the second week he may be gently raised up, and may sit several hours, supported by a bed-chair, or the like, which will greatly relieve him. Great care, however, must be taken, in raising him up and laying him down, that he make no exertions himself, otherwise the action of the muscles may pull the bone out of its place. It is of great importance to keep the patient dry and clean while in this situation. By neglecting this he is often so galled and ex- coriated that he is forced to keep shifting placesLEG LEG [ 136 ] for ease. We have known a fractured thigh- bone, after it had been kept straight for abuve a fortnight, displaced bv this means, and con- tinue bent for life, in spite of all that could be done. It has been customary, when a bone was broken, to keep the limb for five or six weeks continually upon the stretch; but this is a bad posture. It is both uneasy to the patient and unfavourable to the cure. The best situation is to keep tiie joint a little bent. This is the pos- ture into which every animal puis its limbs when it goes to rest, and in' which fewest muscles are upon the stretch. It is easily effected by either laying the patient upon his side, or making the bed so as to favour this position of the limb. Bone-setters ought carefully to examine whether the bone be not shattered or broken into several pieces. In this case it will some- times be necessary to have the limb immediately taken off, otherwise a gangrene or mortification may ensue. The horror which attends the very idea of an amputation often occasions its being delayed in such cases till too late. When a fracture is accompanied with a wound it must be dressed in all respects as a wound. All that art can do towards the cure of a broken bone is to lay it perfectly straight, and to keep it quite easy. All tight bandages do hurt. They had much better be omitted alto- gether. A great many of the bad consequences which succeed to fractured bones are owing to tight bandages. This is one of the ways in which the excess of art, or rather, the abuse of it, does more mischief than would be occasioned by the want of it. Some of the most sudden cures of broken bones M'hich were ever known happened where no bandages were applied at all. Some method, however, must be taken to keep the member steady; but this may be done many ways, without bracing it with a tight bandage. The best method of retention is by two or more splints made of leather or pasteboard. These, if moistened before they are applied, soon assume the shape of the included member, and are sufiicient, with the assistance of a.very slight bandage, for all the purposes of retention. The bandage which we would recommend is that made with twelve or eighteen tails. It is much more easily applied and taken off than rollers, and answers all the purposes of retention equally well. The splints should always be as long as the limb, with holes cut for the ankles when the fracture is in the leg. The most proper external application for a fracture is oxycrate, or a mixture of vinegar and water, to which some spirits of wine may be .added. Thp bandages should be wetted with this at every dressing if the inflammation runs high. LEGS, BANDY. See Bandy Legs. LEGS, SORE. This is a complaint to which labouring men are especially liable. It is really the formation of ulcers on the limbs. If aa ulcer of long standing be seated on the leg it should be poulticed, and the edges of it brought close together by slips of adhesive strapping, over which a bandage, continued from the foot along the leg, somewhat tight, should be applied, and afterwards kept moist with spring water. An ulcer may be distinguished from a wound by the former discharging a thin watery humour, which is often so acrid as to inflame and corrode the skin ; also by the hardness and perpen- dicular situation of its sides, by the time it has continued, &c. It requires some judgment to say when some old ulcers ought to be dried up. Those in general which proceed from a bad habit of body should, at least, be suffered to continue open till the constitution be so far changed by proper regimen or the use of medicine, that they seem to heal of their own accord. Those which are the effect of malignant fevers or other acute diseases may, in general, be safely healed a short time after the health has been restored. The cure, nevertheless, ought not to be attempted too soon, nor at any time without having pre- viously used purging medicine and nutritious diet. When wounds or bruises, by wrong treatment, have degenerated into ulcers, they may be healed, if the constitution be good, with safety ; but when ulcers are a consequence of some chronic disease, or are substituted for them, they must be healed with proper caution and consideration, lest they bring back the original disease in a more virulent and dangerous form ; and if any ulcer conduce to the patient's health, which the healing of it up would be likely to molest, it ought not to be healed ; but, on the contrary, if it exhaust the patient by consuming his strength in a slow fever, it should be healed as soon ai possible. Lime water has frequently been of singular service in the cure of obstinate ulcers, given both internally and used as in gravel, and externally as a lotion. Or, to ill-conditioned ulcers, the following may be applied often:— Take muriate of ammonia, sulphate of mag- nesia, and sulphate of soda, of each ^ drachm; spring water, 4 ozs. Make a lotion. To be applied often during the day. A bread and- milk poultice at bedtime. The hard and callous sides and bottoms of ulcers may be sprinkled twice a day with a little red precipitate, and afterwards dressed with basilicon.[ 137 : LEM LEG The best diet for promoting the cure of ulcers is to avoid high-seasoned food, strong liquors, and to use a smaller quantity of animal food than usual. The body should be kept gently open, and tlie patient should use moderate exercise, and be kept as cheerful as possible in an airy situation. LEGHORN STRAW. See Straw. LEMON. The lemon is the fruit of Citrus limonum, and of it there are many varieties. Some of the most important are :—rl. The com- mon lemon, which is met with so plentifully in commerce. It is generally of an oval shape, with a thick rind, which is sometimes smooth and sometimes rough, with an abundaftt, sour juice. This is the Genoa lemon. 3. The thin- skinned lemon. This is a remarkably fine variety, of large size, and with a thin, smooth, shining, and fragrant rind, under which it is difficult to discern any white. The pulp is very delicate, and abounds in an agreeable acid juice, which has a delightful aroma. It is said to be only in the neighbourhood of Rome that it yields its fine aroma, and hence it' is called lustrato. 3. The sweet lemon has a sweet pulp, like an orange, but has all the exterior charactei^s of the lemon. 4. The citron lemon is a large, oblong, warted fruit, with a rough rind, which is thick and eatable. It is one of the least delicate of the lemons, and is much cultivated in Liguria. There are numerous other varieties cultivated in the south of Europe; but, as they are never seen in this country, we need not occupy our space with descriptions of them. The principal supplies of lemons received in this country are from Messina. ^ The juice of the lemon is the part which is most valued for its peculiar and grateful flavour, which is due to citric acid. It is cooling, and, when properly diluted, forms an agreeable and refreshing beverage in inflammatory diseases, under the name of lemonade; or added to other sick-room drinks, such as gum water and barley water. But the most important property it possesses is the prevention and cure of scurvy, for which it is known by the name of lirrie juice ; and, of late, drinking the pure expressed juice has been highly extolled as a remedy against severe attacks of acute rheumatism. The rind has a fragrant odour, is warm, aromatic, and bitter. It yields, by expression an,d distillation, an essential oil, called oil of lenjons, which is much used for its flavour. The rind is also candied, like that of the orange, and is used for the same purpose. LEMON BONBONS. Take 2 lbs. of the best loaf sugar ; clarify and boil it to caramel, but just before it reaches that point grate the rind of a lemon, and put it in. In the meanwhile melt a little butter; skim and pour it off dlear. Take a spoonful of this butter, and rub it with your hand over a copper plate or marble slab, on which pour the caramelled sugar ; then have a sword blade, take an end in each hand, and impress lines on the sugar about an inch apart; then impress similar lines across the first, so as to form small cakes. This operation is to be performed as quickly as possible, lest the sugar should cool before the whole is marked. When, however, all is done, pass the blade carefully between the sugar and the slab, lay the bonbons on sheets of white paper, and when pei'fectly cold separate them and wrap each in paper. Keep them in a dry place. LEMON BRANDY. Put the peel of two lemons into a bottle of brandy; let it stand for four-and-twenty hours, and then strain it. Boil 2 ozs. of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water, skim it, let it stand till cold, and then mix it with the brandy. LEMON BUTTER WITH SWEET- MEATS. Blanch and pound very finely 1 oz. of sweet almonds ; put them to a quart of boiling cream ; add the whites of three eggs well beaten, a little orange-flower water, and sweeten accord- ing to taste. Then take a lemon, grate the rind into some lemon juice, add it to the cream, and make it boil; then put it into a hair sieve, and when well drained beat it together, and lay it in a high dish, with sweetmeats or ratafia cakes all round. LEMON CAKE. Take the whites of ten eggs, with three spoonsful of rose or orange- flower water, and beat them an hour with a whisk ; then put in 1 lb. of sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a lemon. When well mixed add the juice of half a lemon, and the yolks of ten eggs beaten till smooth; stir in f lb. of flour; then butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. LEMON CAKES (1). Quarter as many lemons as you think proper. They must have good rinds. Boil them in two or three waters till they are tender and have lost their bitterness ; then skin them, and put them into a napkin to fry. With a knife take all the skins and seeds from the pulp, shred the peels finely, add them to the pulp, weigh them, .and put rather more than their weight of fine sugar into a tossing-pan, with just suSicient water to dissolve the sugar; boil till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and then by degrees put in the peel and pulp, stirring them well before you set them on the fire; boil the whole very gently till it looks clear and thick, and then put it into flat-bottomed glasses. Set them in a stove, and keep them in a continual and moderate heat. Turn them out upon glasses as soon as they are candied. LEMON CAKES (2). Choose the best- coloured lemons, scrape out the blocks, grateLEM [ 138 ] LEM off all the peel, and put it into a strainer ; wet some sugar, boil it to candy height, and then take it off; put in the grated lemon-peel, set it on the fire again, and let it boil up. Squeeze in a little lemon juice, and drop the cakes on buttered plates or paper. LEMON CHEESECAKES (1). Boil the peel of two large lemons till it is quite tender, and then pound it well in a mortar with 4 ozs. or 5 ozs. of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, ff lb. of fresh butter, and a little finely beaten curd. Pound and mix all these together; lay a rich puff paste in some patty pans; half fill them, and bake them carefully. LEMON CHEESECAKES (2). Mix 4 ozs. of sifted lump sugar and 4 ozs. of butter to- gether, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, the rind of three lemons shred finely, and the juice of one lemon and a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, and three spoonsful of brandy. MLx the whole well together, and put it to paste made with the following ingre- dients :—Flour, 8 ozs.; butter, 6 ozs.; two- thirds of which must be mixed with the flour first; then wet it with six spoonsful of water, and roll it in the remainder of the butter. LEMON CHIPS, GRILLAGE OF. Pare off the rinds of your lemons as thin as possible, and put them into double the quantity of sugar boiled to grande plume; stir them well, squeeze a little lemon juice over, and lay them on a baking plate previously rubbed with oil ; strew powder sugar over, and dry them in a stove. LEMON CONSERVE. Grate the rind of a lemon on a piece of sugar (about 1 lb.), scrape off the surface of the sugar, as the lemon adheres to it, until you have rasped the whole of the rind ; squeeze half the juice on the scraped sugar, and then boil the rest to grande jilume. Take it from the fire when at this degree, and let it stand a little; stir in the lemon gently, and when it forms a sort of glace on the top of the sugar pour the conserve into moulds, being careful, however, that it is not too hot. LEMON CONSERVE, WHITE. Boil 1 lb. of the finest sugar, take it off the fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one lemon at dif- ferent times, stirring continually: it will make the sugar as white as milk if properly done. Take care not to drop any of the seeds into it. Work well together, and when it is of an equal substance (which prove in the same manner as any other jelly), pour it into a mould. LEMON CREAM. Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs well beaten, J lb. of fine sugar, and the rind of a hmon cut very thin. Boil all these up, and then stir till almost cold; put the juice of a lemon into a dish or basin, and pour the cream upon it, stirring till quite cold. LEMON CREAM, CLEAR. Take a little hartshorn jelly, and put into it the peel of two lemons, taking care that there is none of the white; set it over the fire, and let it boil. Tako the whites of six eggs, and beat them well; take the juice of four lemons, grate the peel into the juice, let it soak a little while, and afterwards mix the juice and eggs together; put in a sufiicient quantity of double-refined sugar to sweeten it, let it boil very fast nearly a quarter of an hour, then strain it through a jelly'bag, and as it runs through put it in again till it is quite clear, after which take the peel of the lemons boiled in it, and cut it into each glass. Stir the cream till it is half cold, and then pour it on the peel in the glasses. LEMON CREAM ICES (1). Take two fine large lemons, rub then- rind on a piece of sugar, scrape it off, and put it on paper ; then set two quarts of cream on the fire to boil. In the meanwhile whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a snow, then add to it the twelve yolks and 1 lb. of finely sifted sugar. When well mixed put them a little at a time to the boiling cream, with the scraped sugar; boil up the whole two or thi'ee times, stirring constantly, and poui* it through a sieve into a basin. When cold put it into the mould and ice it. LEMON CREAM ICES (2). Take the juice of three or four lemons, and grate the peel of one lemon; add two gills of syrup and one pint of cream; mix the whole together, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it. LEMON CREAM, YELLOW. Grate offthe peel of four lemons, squeeze the juice on it, let it steep four or five hours, strain it, and put to it the whites of eight eggs and the yolks of two, well beaten and strained; add thereto 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and a pint of spring water ; stir all these together ; set it on a quick fire, but do not let it boil. It is done sufiiciently when it creams. LEMON CUSTARD. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, strain them, and beat them with a pint of cream ; sweeten the juice of two lemons, boil it with the peel of one, and strain it. When cold stir it to the cream and eggs till it nearly boils, or put it into a dish, grate over the rind of a lemon, and brown it with a salamander. LEMON DROPS. Grate three lemons with a large piece of double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, and add half a tea- spoonful of flour; mix well together, and beat up into a light paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, put the drops on a tin plate, and set them in a moderate oven.[ 139 ] LEM LEM LEMON ESSENCE. Kasp your lemons all round very thin, and for every i lb. of rind allow 1 lb. of sugar; mix well with a large spaddle till you find it is all of the same colour, and that the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone jar, and press it down as hard as you can ; put a bladder over the paper you cover it with, and tie it over quite tight; set it by, and in a month's time it will be fit for use. LEMON HONEY. Take three large ripe lemons, and roll them under your hand on a table to increase the juice. Kub oflf on a piece of loaf sugar the yellow rind or zest, scraping it up with a tea-spoon as you proceed, and put it aside in a saucer; then squeeze the juice of the lemons through a strainer upon 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and add the zest or grated rind. Cut up among the sugar rather more than J lb. of fresh butter; beat six eggs as light as possible, and mix in gradually the sugar and lemon, stirring all very hard; put these into a porce- lain kettle, and boil till it becomes of the consistence of thick honey, stirring all the while. If the weather is warm add a table- spoonful of arrowroot or sifted flour. When done put it into jars, and cover them closely. It will keep good a month or more in a dry, cool place. If made in winter it will continue good ior two months. LEMON HONEYCOMB. Take the juice of one lemon, sweeten it according to your taste, and put it in the dish in which you intend to serve it; beat up the white of an egg, then mix it with a pint of rich cream and a little sugar, whisk it, and as the froth rises put it on the lemon juice. It should be made the day before it is wanted. LEMON ICE WITH WINE. Squeeze the juice from as many lemons as will yield i lb., which filter through blotting paper; then put 1^ lb. of fine sugar, with a bottle of white wine and half the quantity of water, on the fire. When it has boiled up three or four times add the juice to it, and having boiled that also the same number of times, put in as much tincture of saffron as will tinge it of a fine yellow colour. Strain and finish the ice as usual. LEMON JELLY (1). Set a pint and a half of clarified sugar on the fire, and dilute it with a little water. When it boils, and has been well skimmed, put in 2 ozs. of clarified isinglass, with a little lemon-peel cut very thin; let these boil tiU you have squeezed through a sieve inter a basin the juice of six lemons ; then add your sugar and isinglass to it, and set it in a mould or any other jelly. When turned out garnish it with dried jellies. LEMON JELLY (2). Take five large lemons, squeeze out the juice from them, and add to it the whites of six eggs well beaten, 10 ozs. of double-refined sugar beaten till very fine, and twenty spoonsful of spring water; mix all we^l together, strain it through a jelly bag, set it over a gentle fire, skim it well, and when it is hot (it must not boil) take it off, and pour it into glasses, with shreds of lemon-peel. LEMON JUICE. {See Citric Acid.) The liquid obtained from lemons by moderate pres- sure. This juice is sharp, but very gratefully acid. It consists principally of citric acid, mucilage, extractive matter, and a small pro- portion of sugar and water. The simple juice soon spoils, and therefore the crystallised acid is generally used in its stead. It is refrigerant and antiseptic. Diluted with water, and sweet- ened, it forms the beverage called lemonade, which is extremely useful for quenching thirst, and abating the heat in various diseases. Given alone, to the extent of a table-spoonful for a dose, it allays hysterical palpitations of the heart; and in combination with carbonate of potash (half a fluid ounce of the juice to one scruple of the salt), taken in a state of effervescence, is used with great success to stop vomiting. A more useful and pleasant effervescing draught may be made by putting a table-spoonful of lemon juice, mixed with a small quantity of sugar, into a tumbler, and pouring over it half a pint of soda water. Lemon juice is success- fully used in sea scurvy ; but its continued use is said, notwithstanding, to be hurtful to the general health of the sailors. LEMON JUICE: To Keep. Keep the lemons two or three days in a cool place. If too unripe to squeeze readily, cut the peel off some, and roll them under your hand : they will then part with their juice more readily. Others you may leave unpared for grating when the pulp has been taken out, and they have been dried. Squeeze the juice into a china basin, then strain it through some muslin, taking care that none of the pulp passes through. Have some half and quarter-ounce phials, be careful that they are perfectly dry, and fill them with lemon juice; fill them so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each, cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. If you make use of larger phials you must put in rather more than half a tea-spoon- ful of sweet oil. When you want the lemon juice open such a sized bottle as you will iise in two or three days, wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and, dipping it in, the oil will be attracted, and when all is removed the juice will be as good as when first bottled. Hang the peels up to dry, and keep them in a place free from dust. LEMON KISSES. Take three large ripe lemons, and rub off the yellow rinds upon some pieces belonging to 1 lb. of fine loaf sugar;L E M [ 1^0 ] LE M then powder all the pound of sugar, and squeeze among it (through a strainer) the juice of the lemons, mixing it well in. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth that will stand alone; then beat in very hard the sugar, &c., a tea-spoonful at a time. Lay a sheet of white paper on a board, drop the mixture on it in oval piles, smoothing them with a broad- bladed knife dipped frequently in cold water; set them in a moderate oven, and w'hen they are coloured a light brown take them out; slip a knife carefully under each to remove them from the papers, and place two bottoms together, so «s to give them the form of an egg. If you use oi'anges scoop out a small hollow in the bottom of each half kiss as soon as they are baked, and fill the cavity with orange pulp sweetened; then join the two halves together. LEMON LOAVES. Cut the fruit in halves, squeeze them, and preserve the liquor; takeout the pulp, boil the peels till the bitter is ex- tracted, and lay them in a syrup for two days; then boil the syrup they have laid in till it is of a good consistence, add the peels, and put them into glasses for use. When they are wanted take a sufficient quantity for a dish, and fill them with some pudding mixture, either marrow, bread, plum, &c., or with a custard, and bake them with the greatest care. LEMON MAKMALADE. Take half a dozen lemons, grate off two of the rinds, then cut them all, and pick out the inside from the skin and seeds; put to them the grated leinon, and about half a pint of pippin jelly; take the same weight of sugar as of the inside ; boil the sugar to a very strong souffle; then put it to the inside, and boil all very quickly until it becomes a jelly, which may be ascertained by dipping in the skimmer, and holding it up to drain : if it is sufficiently jellied it will break from the skim- mer in flakes, and if not it will run off in little streams. When done put it into glasses or pots. LEMON MINCE PIES. Squeeze out the juice from a large lemon ; boil the outside till sufficiently tender to beat to a mash; add to it three large apples chopped, 4 ozs. of suet, •I lb. of currants, and 4 ozs. of sugar ; put in the juice of the lemon, and add candied fruit the same as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the patty pans in the usual manner. LEMON PASTE. Cut off the ends of the lemons, and run them through and through with a long pin; put them on the fire in water, and boil them till tender; then take them out, lay them in cold water a minute, put them into a cloth, and press out the water. Pound and rub them through a sieve, mixing them with double the quantity of sugar boiled to grande plume. Set the whole on the fire to simmer, stirring con- fitaatly. LEMON PASTILLES (1). Grate the rind of a lemon without any of the white, and infuse it in a glass of water with ^ oz. of gum dragon. When the latter is completely dis solved press it through a cloth, put it into a mortar, and work it up with the sugar to a proper consistence ; then form it into pastilles according to your fancy, and drj'them in the oven. LEMON PASTILLES (2). Take \ lb. of pounded loaf sugar sifted as finely as possible, and put it in a plate ; take three or four lemons, and squeeze their juice over the sugar; mix it well with a spoon till you make it a rather thick paste, so that you can take it up on a knife; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops about the size of a sixpence; place them in a stove with a slow fire till they are quite dry, and then take them off the paper. You may use if you please some of the peel gi^ated, but not chipped; for, as it is a melting pastille, some of the bits would remain in the mouth. LEMON-PEEL, CANDIED (1). Take some thick-rinded lemons, pare off the yellow peel, and throw it into boiling water till soft, when it must be put into cold water. Clarify- some fine sugar, boil it to petite lisse, and, having drained the lemon-peel, pour it on the syrup whilst hot. The next day boil the syrup again, and return it to the peel. The third and fourth days proceed in the same manner, adding a small quantity of clarified sugar. The last time the syrup is boiled, as soon as it rises to perle, put in the peel, cover and boil the whole together once, and when cold drain and dry them in a stove. LEMON-PEEL, CANDIED (2). Take some lemon-peels, clean them well from the pulp, and let them lie two days in salt and water; then scald and drain them dry; boil them in a thin syrup till they look quite clear, after which take them out, and have ready a thick syrup made with fine loaf sugai-; put them into it, and simmer them till the sugar candies about the pan and peels ; then lay them sepa- rately ou a hair sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over them, and set them to dry in a slow oven. LEMON-PEEL AU CARAMEL. Take some veiy dry preserved lemon-peel, and cut it into several small square pieces; put these pieces each on the point of little sticks kept for this purpose, and dip them in caramel sugar. LEMON-PEEL, ESSENCE OF. Having cleaned and dried the lemons, rub them with a piece of lump sugar till all the yellow is cleaned off; then lay the mixture in a pot,, press it down, and keep it for use. Seville oranges may be adopted instead of lemons. LEMON-PEEL, RATAFIA OF. Grate the yellow rind only of seven or eight lemons, andLEM [ 141 ] LEM infuse it in three quarts of the best brandy for three weeks, at the end of which time add f lb. of finely clarified sugar to each quart. Let it stand a fortnight longer; then filter and bottle it. LEMON PICKLE. Wipe six lemons, cut i each into eight pieces, and put on them 1 lb. of salt, six large cloves of garlic, 2 ozs. of finely shred horseradish, J oz. of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of nutmeg, ditto of Cayenne, and 2 ozs. of flour of mustard. To these add two quarts of vinegar, put it into a strong jar in a kettle of boiling water, or set the jar on a hot hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks. Keep the jar closely covered. Put the pickle into small bottles. LEMON POSSET. Squeeze the juice of two lemons into a china bowl or small deep dish which will hold a quart, sweeten it like syrup, and aid a little brandy. Boil one pint of cream with a bit of orange-peel, take out the latter, and when cold put the cream into a tea- pot, and pour it to the syrup, holding it high. Make it a day before it is wanted. LEMON PUDDING (1). Peel four lemons i thin, boil them till they are tender, rub them I through a haii- sieve, and preserve the fine pulp. Take 1 lb. of Naples biscuits, a little grated nutmeg, and 2 ozs. of fresh butter, and pour over them some boiling milk or cream in which a stick of cinnamon has been boiled. When cold mix with them the pulp of the lemons, and eight eggs well beaten ; sweeten according to taste, and if you choose add brandy. Edge a dish with good puff paste, put in the mixture, garnish the top with strings of paste as for tartlets, and bake in a moderately heated oven. LEMON PUDDING (2). Put i lb. of fresh butter vfith i lb. of loaf sugar into a saucepan, and keep stirring over the fire till it boils ; j put it into an earthen pan, grate the rind of a large lemon into it, and let it stand till cold. Beat eight eggs, and squeeze the juice of the lemon on them; mix the sugar and butter with them; lay some rich puff paste on the bottom of I a dish ; then put in the preparation, and add bits of candied lemon-peel. Bake with great care. LEMON PUFF. Beat and sift 1^ lb. of double-refined sugar; grate the rind of two lemons, and mix the same with the sugar; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs, add them to the sugar and ped, and beat up for an liour; make it up into shape, and bake it on ] aper, laid on tin plates, in a moderate oven. The paper must remain till cold. Oiling it \\ill make it come off with ease. LEMON, QUINTESSENCE OF. Best oil of lemon, 1 drachm; strongest rectified spirit, 2 ozs., introduced by degrees till the spirit kills, and completely mixes with the oil. This elegant preparation possesses all the de- lightful fragrance and flavour of the freshest lemon-peel. LEMON SAUCE. Pare a lemon and cut it into slices ; take out the seeds and chop it small; boil the liver of a fowl and bruise it; mix these in the gravy; then melt some butter, put in the liver, &c., and add a little of the peel chopped very small. LEMON SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWLS (1) . Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them into melted butter. Give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. LEMON SAUCE FOR BOILED FOWLS (2) . Put the peel of a small lemon, cut ex- tremely thin, into a pint of sweet, rich cream, with a sprig of lemon thyme and ten white pep- percorns ; simmer gently till it tastes well of lemon; then strain it, and thicken it with | lb. of butter rubbed in a dessert-spoonful of flour. Boil it up; then pour the juice of the lemoa (strained) into it, stirring it well. Dish the fowls, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them to- gether. Add salt according to your taste. LEMON SHERBET. Dissolve H lb. of white sugar in a quart of clear water ; take nine large lemons, wipe them perfectly clean, cut each across, and squeeze the juice into the dissolved sugar ; plunge the lemons into the sugared water, and press them so as to extract not only the juice, but the oil contained in the rind. Mix the whole together, and strain it. through a close hair sieve; pour the liquid into a sarbotiere, and finish in the same manner as Cbeam Shebbet. LEMON SHRUB. To U lbs. of white sugar add eighteen gills of water, and clarify it over the fire with the whites of from four to six eggs. To this syrup add the strained juice of eight dozen lemons, and simmer it a little. When cool bottle it for use. You may add, if you think fit, three pints of old brandy. LEMON SPONGE. Boil i oz. of isinglass in a pint of water till dissolved; strain it, and the following day add the juice of two lemons and the grated peel of one ; rub through a hair sieve into the isinglass a good quantity of raspberry jam that has stood before the fire some time, and whisk all up together till like a. sponge; put it into an earthen mould, set it in a cold place for some hours, and turn it out. Any other sort of preserve may be used, and if made only with lemon juice sweeten it with sugar. LEMON SWEETMEATS. Take 1 lb. of marchpane paste, and mix it with as many yolks of eggs as will enable you to spread the paste with a knife, adding to it a sufficient[ 142 ] LEM LBM quantity of grated lemon-peel to impart the flavour required. The whole being well mixed, cut some sheets of wafer paper into such figures as your fancy may dictate, and spread the paste over them about a quarter of an inch in thickness; place them on paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. If you wish to glaze your sweetmeats boil some sugar with orange - flower water to plume, and when they are taken out of the oven wash them over with the syrup, which dries almost im- mediately. LEMON SYLLABUBS. Take a pint of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of two lemons grated, with the juice, and add sugar according to taste; let all this stand some time, melt or whip it, and lay the froth on a sieve ; put the remainder into glasses, and lay on the froth. They should be made the day before they are wanted. LEMON TARTS. Rub six lemons well with salt, put them into water with a little salt in it for two days, and change them every day with fresh water, without salt, for a fort- night. Boil them till they are tender, and cut them into half-quarters, cornerwise, as thin as possible. Take half a dozen pippins, pared, cored, and quartered, and put them into a pint of water; let them boil till they break ; then put the liquor to the lemon, with half the pulp of the pippins well broken, and 1 lb. of sugar. Boil these together for a quarter of an hour, then put it into a pot, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon: two spoonsful will be suf- ficient to give a proper flavour to your tart. Put fine thin puff paste into your patty pans, which must be small and shallow. Before you put your tarts into the oven take a feather or brush, rub them over with melted butter, and then sift on them some double - refined sugar. _ LEMON WAFERS. Squeeze the juice of six lemons into a basin, pound and sift some double-refined sugar, and mix it with the lemon juice ; put the white of an egg with it, and mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon to make it of a good consistence ; take some sheets of wafer paper, and put one of them on a pewter sheet or tin plate; put on it a spoonful of the preparation, and spread it all over the paper with a knife ; cut it into twelve pieces, and put them across a stick in a hot stove, with that side the paste is on uppermost, and you will find they will curl. When they are half curled take them off very carefully, and put them up endways in a sieve, that they may stand up; let them be in the hot stove one day, and you will find they will be all curled, and then they are done. LEMON WATER. Put two slices of thinly pared lemon into a tea-pot, a little piece of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it closely for two hours. LEMON-WATER ICE. To a pint of lemon juice put a pint of water and half a gill of brandy, sweeten with clarified sugar, and freeze it. LEMON WHEY. Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon juice as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeably sharp acid, and add a lump or two of loaf sugar. LEMON WINE. Take six large lemons, pare off the rinds, cut them, and squeeze out the juice, in which steep the rinds, adding thereto a quart of brandy, and let the whole stand in an earthen jar closely stopped for thi-ee days; then squeeze six more lemons, and to the juice put two quarts of spring water, with as much sugar as will sweeten the whole ; then boil the water, sugar, and lemons together, and let it stand till cold. After this add a quart of white wine, and the first-mentioned lemons and brandy; mix them together, and strain the whole through a linen bag into the vessel ; let it stand three months, and bottle it off, taking care to wire the corks. Keep the bottles in a cool place or in sand, and in two months more the liquor will be fit for use. LEMONS: To Keep fob Puddings, When you squeeze the fruit throw the outside into water, without the pulp; let them remain in the same a fortnight, adding no more ; boil them in the same till tender; strain it from them, and when they are nearly dry throw them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats; or, if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup made of common loaf sugar and water, and pour over them. In a week or ten days boil them gently in it tUl they look clear ; and that they may be covered with it in the jar, you may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy a smaller space. LEMONS: To Pickle. Take twelve lemons, and rub them well with a piece of flannel; rub them over with bay salt, and lay them on an earthen pan, turning them every day, for three days; then slice 1 oz. of ginger, salt it well, and lay. it in salt for three days. Parboil twelve cloves of garlic, well salted, for three days ; a small handful of mustard seed bruised, some Cayenne pepper, and one clove of garlic should be put to each lemon. Take your lemons out of the salt, squeeze them, put them into a jar with the spice, and cover them with the best white wine vinegar; stop them up closely, and in a month's time they will be fit for use.LEN I US ] LEM LEMONS, COMPOTE OF. Cut some lemons in small pieces, boil them in water till they are tender, and then change them into cold water; make a syrup with a glass of water and Jib. of sugar, and put in the fruit; let it sim- mer gently over a slow fire for half an hour, and serve cold. I LEMONS, ESSENTIAL SALT OF. This is a poisonous preparation, so called because it has the same effect upon fruit stains in linen and cotton as the crystallised acid (citric acid) obtained from lemons. Mix together ^ oz. of cream of tartar (bi-tartrate of potash) with 1 oz. of salt of sorrel (bin-oxalate of potash), both finely powdered. Moisten the stain with warm water, and then rub upon it a little of the mixed powders. It would discharge the colour from printed muslins, or from any other linen or cotton fabric. LEMONS, PRESERVED. Choose your lemons as near of a size as possible, with rather thick rinds; pare and put them in cold water, then into boiling water over a moderate fire, and when you can insert a pin's head with ease throw them again into cold water. Boil some sugar to lisse, then put in the lemons, give them a few boils together, and skim and put them into a pan. The next day drain off the sugar, I boil it several times, and then pour it over the j lemons again. The third day boil the sugar to nappe, adding fresh sugar to it; put the lemons in, cover the pan, and give them one boil. Do this for two days successively. On the last, however, boil the sugar to perle, and when you have boiled the lemons put them by in pots. LEMONS PRESERVED GREEN. Split some small green lemons on one side, that they [ may take the sugar inside as well as outside; I put them into cold water, set them on the fire, and keep them from boiling by pouring I cold water on them frequently. As soon, how- ! ever, as they rise above it take them from the fire, throw them into cold water, and after they have lain a short time in it put them on the fire, boiling them slowly till the fruit is quite tender, when they must again be put into cold water. Clarify some sugar, put the lemons to it, and having let it boil up seven or eight times, put the whole into a pan till the next day; then drain off the syrup, boil it up twenty or thirty times (having added a little fresh sugar), pour it over your lemons, and repeat this process for three successive days, increasing the boiling point of the sugar each day, so that on the last it will be iox perle, when the fruit must be boiled with it once, and then put into pots. LEMONS, SYRUP OF. Put a pint of fresh lemon juice to If lb. of loaf sugar, dis- eolve by a gentle heat, skim it tiU the surface is quite clear, and add 1 oz. of thinly cut lemon-peel; let them simmer very gently toge- ther for a few minutes, and run through a flannel. When cold bottle and cork it closely, and keep it in a cool place. LEMONADE (1). Take four lemons, para the rind as thin as possible, squeeze them int5 a quart of water, add ^ lb. of fine sugar, and let it stand two or three hours; then pass it through a jelly bag into decanters. LEMONADE (2). Take five lemons and two Seville oranges, pare off the rinds as thin as possible, pour on them a quart of boiling water, and to the juice of the fruit add half a pint of white wine and ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Let them stand all night closely covered, strain off the liquor into one vessel, and pour over them half a pint of boiling milk. Strain through a jelly bag till quite clear. LEMONADE LIKE JELLY. Pare six lemons and a couple of Seville oranges very thin, and steep them in a quart of hot water four hours; boil \\lb. of loaf sugar in three pints of water, skim it, and add the liquor of the six lemons and of the two oranges to the juice of six China oranges and twelve lemons. Stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly bag till clear; then add a little orange water if you like the flavoui', and, if necessary, add more sugar. It will keep well if properly corked. LEMONADE POWDERS (1). One part of citric acid to six parts of finely powdere i sugar. The quantity to mix with water will depend on the taste. LEMONADE POWDERS (2). Acid of tartar, loz.; sugar, 6 ozs.; essence of lemon, 2 drachms. Rub them together, and divide into twenty-four packets. LEMONADE AND WINE. Put the peel and juice of two lemons into a pan, and pour ou them a pint of boiling water, 1 lb. of sugar, and two bottles of good Burgundy. Let these stand half an hour. It will keep well if properly corked. LENITIVE ELECTUARY. This is called confection of senna by medical men. Take of senna leaves 8 ozs.; figs, I lb.; tamarind pulp, cassia pulp, and the pulp of prunes, of each ^ lb.; coriander seeds, 4 ozs. ; liquorice root, 3 ozs. ; lump sugar, 2|^lbs. Powder the senna leaves with the coriander seeds, and separate by sift- ing 10 ozs. of the mixed powder. Boil the residue with the figs and liquorice root in four pints of water until it be reduced one-half; then press out and strain the liquor. Evaporate the strained liquor in a water bath until a pint and a half only remains of the whole ; then, the sugar being added, make a syrup. Finally, mix gradually the pulps with the syrup, and havingLET LEN added the sifted powder, mix the whole to- gether. This is a well-known, mild, and plea- sant purgative, and well adapted for those af- flicted with habitual costiveness. The dose is from one drachm to four or more, taken at bed- time. LENTIL CULLIS. Make a meat gravy with veal, ham, onions, parsley, scallions, two cloves, and some winter savory ; set these on the fire, and when the meat catches add some stock, and simmer till done. Boil the lentils in stock, pound and rub them through a sieve into the stewpan with the meat, and give the whole one boil; then take out the meat, and strain the cullis, which must not be too thick. LENTILS. Choose them large and white, and after having washed and picked them, boil in water. When done fricassee them like white kidney beans. There is a small sort of lentil which is not much used in fricassees, but is the best to make cullis, both from the colour being finer and the flavour better. LENTILS, FRICASSEED. Make a light roux, in which put some sweet herbs or onions cut into dice ; give them a few turns in the roux, to which add a little stock or water, and when well mixed put in the lentils, with salt and pepper. Serve them hot. LENTILS, PUREE OF. Take two pints of lentils, do them in the same manner as dry peas, and when done take out the vegetables, bacon, and beef; strain the lentils, and put them into a stewpan, with three or four ladlesful of Espagnole. This puree requires more liquid than the peas, as it will take a longer time to colour. Skim it well, and be careful not to make it too thick. When properly reduced put it into another saucepan, and set it by till wanted. LEPROSY, or Lepea. A disease of the ekin, appearing at first in red pimples or pus- tules on different parts of the body. Sometimes they appear singly, and sometimes a great num- ber arise together, especially on the arms and legs. As the disease increases fresh pimples appear, which, joining the former, make a sort of cluster. The pustules are rough, whitish, and scaly ; when scratched the scabs fall off, a thin ichor oozes out, and hardens into a scaly crust. The whole body is at length covered with a scaly crust. This disease is little known in this country. The cure consists in the internal use of anti- monial and mercurial medicines for a consider- able length of time. In conjunction with these, warm bathing, particularly the vapour bath, has often been employed with advantage. Although leprosy, strictly so called, is a very rare disease, yet to this head may be referred a variety of cutaneous affections, which are in this country very common, and often verj' obstinate. They appear in different forms ; sometimes in red pustules; sometimes in white scurfs ; some- times in ulcerations ; and sometimes a transition from one form to another takes place. All these will often give way to the remedies al- ready mentioned ; but they sometimes fail, or are improper to be prescribed. In some cases purging, mineral water, or the decoction of elm bark will be of service. Where there is a watery itching and spreading eruption, more particu- larly incident to old persons, a strong decoction of juniper tops, drunk to the quantity of a quart a day, and long persisted in, lias been very effectual. Different external applications, such as an ointment of sulphur, the ointment of nitrated quicksilver, tar ointment with calomtl, or a weak solution of corrosive sublimate in an almond emulsion, in the proportion of half a grain of the former to 1 oz. of the latter, have been frequently beneficial. At the same time, these mercurial preparations cannot be applied, even externally, with too much caution. The diet of persons labouring under such complaints cannot be here specified ; the weakly and the old will require, however, a more gene- rous one than the healthy and robust. The bowels should in every case be kept soluble. See Elephantiasis. LETHARGY. {See Apoplexy.) This is a species of apoplexy, which is manifested by an in- vincible drowsiness or inclination to sleep, from which the patient is with difficulty awakened; and, if roused, he remains destitute both of sense and memory, so that he soon relapses into his former sleep. It is attended with an increased degree of heat, slow fever, full pulse, paleness, swelling of the eyes, and a coldness of the extremities. Various circumstances concur to produce this affection : the more remarkable of these are, injuries of the brain, arising either from ex- ternal or internal causes ; congestions of blood in the head; terror, anger, or other depressing passions; to which may be added sneezing medicines and strong exhalations of flowers. Man}' remedies have been employed to re- move this growing drowsiness with different degrees of success. In plethoric persons blood- letting, blisters, and emetics have often pro- cured relief. Considerable benefit has also been derived from the sudden affusion of cold water upon the head, from the use of stimulant clysters, and the burning of feathers or other fetid substances held near the nostrils. The patient ought to avoid whatever is difficult of digestion, such as heavy salt meats, fish, milk, and cheese. His diet should be light, and taken in small quantities ; while he must endeavour to resist and counteract the propensity to sleepL LET [ 1^5 ] LET by frequenting cheerful company, taking daily and moderate exercise in the open air, or similar exhilarating means. LETTERS. Inland letters (the Channel Islands included) are to be stamped, if not ex- ceeding half an ounce, to the value of Id.; one ounce, 2d.; two ounces, 4d.; and 2d. for every ad- ditional ounce or fraction of an ounce. Parlia- mentary petitions may be received by members of either house free, if sent in covers open at the sides, when not exceeding thirty-two ounces in weight. An inland letter unpaid exceeding four ounces is liable to be opened, and returned to the sender with a double charge. Prepayment of a'l inland letters must be by stamps. Letters insuf- ficiently stamped are charged double the defi- ciency on delivery. If sent unstamped, double the prepaid rate. Parliamentary proceedings are charged the deficiency only. Re-directed letters are charged a second prepaid rate of postage. On payment of a registration fee of 6d. (in London in money or stamps, elsewhere in stamps only), besides the postage, the delivery of the letter may be insured. Objections to voters for Members of Parliament are registered for a fee of 2d. Foreign letters may also be registered. The Money Ordee Office in the General Post Ofiice is open from ten to four, on Satur- days from ten lill one, where, as well as at the principal receiving houses in the London Dis- trict and in the country, an order may be obtained for any sum not exceeding £b, payable where the remittance is to be made. The charge is, on any sum not exceeding £2, 3d. ; above £2, 6d, Any money order not applied for before the expiration of the second calendar month after that in which it was issued is charged an additional commission of 3d. or 6d., to be transmitted (with the application) in postage stamps to the President of the Money Order Office; and if the order be not paid within a twelvemonth all claim to the money will be forfeited. The initial of the payee's Christian name is now considered sufficient. Applications for money to be returned to the Bender are not liable to a second charge. Money orders crossed and remitted through a bank are paid without the name of the remitter. At the Dead Letter Office letters are received back which have remained a month unclaimed. Foreign letters addressed to per- sons who cannot be found are put into a list hung up in the General Post Office, and are kept for two months. Newspapers stamped, if posted within fifteen days after the day of publication, and with the stamp outside, free ; unstamped, not exceeding four ounces in weight, from one post town to VOL. II. another within the United Kingdom, Id.; to any of the colonies, whether stamped or un- stamped, Id. (except via any foreign coun- try, 2d.) A packet of books, or works of literature or art (including stamped newspapers published more than fifteen days, and unstamped news- papers of any date), either without a cover, or in a cover open at the ends, pi'ovided that the packet do not exceed two feet in length, may be transmitted by post within the United King- dom at the following rates :—Four ounces and u ider. Id.; eight ounces and under, 2d.; and e.ery additional eight ounces, or fraction thereof, 2 1. Book packets should bear the address of the person to whom they are sent both without and (for safety's sake) within. They may contain books, bound or unbound, written, printed, or plain, manuscript, almanacs, prints, maps, parchment, vellum, cases, rollers, book-markers, pens, pencils, or other book furniture, but no written letter, either closed or open. Penalties. Any book packet containing a written letter, or not being open at the ends, or measuring above two feet in length, or un- stamped, to be charged double letter postage. A packet of printed matter insufficiently stamped to be charged the deficiency and 4d. extra. A letter found in a book packet will be forwarded to its address, charged double postage and 4d. extra. The privileges of the book post are now ex tended to the colonies at the following rates :— To the British West Indies, Turk's Island, Honduras, Bermuda, Canada, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward's Island, Newfound- land, Malta, Gibraltar, Ionian Isles, Sierra Leone, Gambia, Gold Coast, St. Helena, Ascen- sion, Cape Town, Natal, Heligoland, Labuan, Vancouver Island, Falkland Islands, three times the inland rate : to Ceylon, East Indies, Hong- Kong, Mauritius, New Zealand, New South Wales, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, West Australia, four times the inland rate. Book packets to India and New South Wales must not exceed three pounds in weight. LETTUCE. Persons that are fond of lettuce may have it nearly all the year by sowing the different kinds, and keeping them covered in the winter. The most approved method of dressing lettuce is to cut it finely, and season with oil, mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, and a hard egg chopped. The essence of ham is also very good for seasoning lettuce. LETTUCE, EGGS AND. Scald some cab- bage lettuces in hot water, squeeze them well, and stew them; toss them up in a saucepan with a piece of butter, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; let them stew half an hour, and chop them well together; place them in aLET [ 1^6 ] Lie dish, after wbich fry some eggs in butter, and lay them on the lettuce. LETTUCE PEAS. Having washed four lettuces, and stripped off the outside leaves, take their hearts, and, having chopped them ■well, put them into a stewpan, with two quarts of young green peas freshly shelled, a lump or two of loaf sugar, and three or four leaves of green mint minced as fine as possible; then put in a slice of cold ham, ^ lb. of butter, divided into four bits and rolled in flour, and two spoonsful of water; add a little black pepper, and let the whole stew for about twenty-five minutes, or till the peas are tho- roughly done; then take out the ham, and add to the stew half a pint of cream ; let it continue stewing five minutes longer, and then send it to table. LETTUCE PEAS, PLAIN. Cover the bot- tom and sides of a stewpan with large fresh leaves taken from lettuces, and have ready the peas, which should be young and green. To each quart of shelled peas allow two table-spoonsful of fresh butter and a lump of loaf sugar; add a very little pepper and salt, and a sprig of green mint; cover the pan closely, and let it stew for half an hour, or till the peas are thoroughly done; then take them out from the lettuce leaves, and send only the peas to table. LETTUCE WITH SAUCE BLONDE. When boiled cover it with sauce blonde. LETTUCE, STUFFED. Take off the outer leaves of several close-headed lettuces, parboil them a quarter of an hour, dip them in cold water, and drain them; then spread the lettuces upon the table, to put in the stuffing either gi'as or maigre; tie them up, and stew them in a pan with gravy or bouillon, or with butter if it be en maigre. When done serve them with their gravy. LEVERET: To Roast. Follow the same instructions as given for the Hare, and while roasting dredge it with flour, and baste it well with warm milk till it is three parts done, and a good crust is formed thereon; then put into the dripping-pan 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of fresh butter. Serve with gravy and melted butter over it, and melted cui'rant jelly separately. LEVERET AU CHASSEUR. Take only the hind-quarters of a leveret, which marinate from six to twelve hours in the juice of a lemon, oil, pepper, salt, a bay leaf, and thyme. Put into a large stewpan some slices of bacon with some butter, and warm for a short time; then add the leveret without cutting it up, and raising it often so that it may be done equally. When half done add half a glass of bouillon, a spoonful of brandy, and the marinade shortly after serving. Serve it with all the sauce. LIAISON is the French term for thicken- ing. See Thickening. LIBRARY. See Books, LICE. The human race is liable to be exclusively invaded by three different species of lice; namely, 1. The crab, or body-louse, which never appears in clothes or on the head, but harbours only in some parts of the bodies of uncleanly persons, or such as are disordered by dissipation. It is easily exterminated by ap- plying a strong decoction of tobacco or mercurial ointment. 2. The clothes-louse is larger than the next species, and has a thicker head. It visits the skin only for imbibing the necessary portion of its nourishment, when it retreats to the folds and seams of clothes. These vermin may be speedily destroyed by fumigating the articles of dress with sulphureous vapours. 3. The head-louse frequents only that part of the body, and is so prolific that each female, in the course of twelve days, deposits several hun- dred eggs, or nits, which are closely cemented to the hair, and hatched in six or seven days by warmth and perspiration. After three weeks the young brood is fit for propagating their species, and as there are, perhaps, a hundred females to one male insect, their rapid increase may be easily conceived. Want of cleanliness, immoderate warmth, violent perspiration, and a corrupted state of the human fluids remarkably promote their generation. Among the most simple and harmless remedies for extirpating these vermin is the seed of parsley reduced to a fine powder; but if the humours of the whole animal body are in so vitiated a state that the blood is contaminated by sensual excess of every kind, there arises the rmorhus pedicularis, or the most dreadful of all diseases, in which those disgusting insects are bred in ulcers, and cover the whole frame, so that the ill-fated victim cannot be relieved. Some constitutions, however, are more ex- posed to these odious vermin than others; and it is remarkable that seafaring men performing voyages to the East Indies, though infested with them on leaving Europe, lose them in a certain degree of latitude during their voyage, but on their return are again liable to their incursions. Beside the remedies already suggested we shall only observe that, in cases where danger is apprehended from lice, it will be useful to take nourishing, succulent food, and to use whole- some drink. As a cure for the pedicular 'dis- ease give frequent purgatives ; at the same time anoint the parts affected with garlic and mus- tard ; make use of salted and acid food ; bathe and foment the body with a decoction of gall- nuts ; but the most effectual remedies are sulphur and tobacco, mercurial ointment, black pepper and vinegar.LIF LIF [ 147 ] LIFE-PRESERVER. A name given to several inventions for the preservation of per- sons in danger of drowning from shipwreck and other accidents. The life-preserver invented by Mr. Daniel is made of pliable waterproof leather, and double throughout. The head of the wearer is to pass between two straps which rest upon the shoulders, and his arms are to pass through the spaces on the outside of the straps, so as to allow the machine under them to encircle the body like a large hollow belt. On the lower part of the back is a strap which is to pass between the thighs of the wearer, and buckle in front. The machine, thus fixed, is to be filled with air by the mouth of the wearer, who is to continue blowing thi'ough a stop-cock in the front of the machine till it is fully inflated; the air is then confined by turning the cock. The person wearing this machine floats about breast high in the water with per- fect ease and freedom, and may move about at pleasure. When it is well filled with air from the lungs it is capable of preventing four persons from sinking under water. Another life-preserver has been suggested by Mr. Grant, for which the Society of Arts awarded him their gold medal. It consists in the conversion of a ship's water-cask to this purpose, and which has been found adequate to its important design. The method is simple, the expense trifling, and requires no care; indeed, all the ship's water-casks now in use could be converted into life-preservers upon this plan in a few hours. The cask is attached to a bed composed of wood, which is nearly square, by lashing only, without a single nail in any part of it. The bung-hole of the cask should be made in the shape of an oblong square, and large enough to admit a man's arm. It should be sawed out of a piece of inch-thick cork, and fitted nicely with a wood file. The top of the bung must be covered with a piece of sheet iron about one-eighth of an inch in thick- ness ; a hinge and hasp are to be cut out of the same, and the iron plate riveted through the thickest part of the cork by five small rivets, the centre one having an eye upon the top, to which the forelock which receives the bung is fastened. The bed and bung once completed, and fourteen iron thin)bles and five dozen bot- tle corks procured, all the rest is sailors' work. Independently of the bed and all the other apparatus, 1^ lb. of cast iron is necessary to every gallon of air for ballast, and three gallons of air for each man. For instance, a thirty- six gallon cask requires eight feet of 1^-inch Blank, six fathoms of two-inch rope, fifteen fathoms of inch line, five dozen corks, and 63 lbs. of cast iron for ballast. This will support twelve men in sea water, it is always at hand, occupies no more than the usual space, and no part of the apparatus is in the way. The corks are attached to the lines to make them float, and prevent the hand from slipping. Loops are also made around the cask with the cork line for the convenience of holding fast. It is scarcely possible to convey the particulars of this apparatus without a drawing; and those who desire a minute account will, of course, consult the thirty-sixth volume of the " Transactions of the Society of Arts," from which this descrip- tion is taken. We merely add that, when ? case of danger occurs, it is only necessary to cut the deck-lashing of the cask, to discharge the water, to secure the bung, and throw the cask overboard; the land being to leeward, the wind and sea will set the cask and men towards the shore. From the manner in which the cask is fixed it will always float steadily, and cannot roll or upset. LIFE - RAFT. A raft contrived as the pre- ceding article, for the purpose of saving the lives of persons in danger of drowning from ship- wreck, &c. The life-raft invented by Mr. T.Cook, and described in the thirty-seventh volume of the " Transactions of the Society of Arts," consists of a square piece of canvas, containing holes for the men to sit in, with strengthening bands for them to sit on. Two sides of the canvas are nailed; the other two sides are laced to a square frame, which takes apart at two corners, that it may be rolled up with the canvas in a very small compass. The casks, which should be those used for holding the ship's water, are secured, one at each corner, by slings and a strapping- line. This raft has the advantage of being fitted in a few minutes, at a time when a few minutes might decide the fate of the crew, who are not required to lash themselves, but merely to sit astride on the bands, being well buoyed up, and to remain quiet till driven on shore by the wind and waves; neither can they be washed off if ever so benumbed with cold. A raft of seven feet square will carry thirteen men; one of four feet six inches square will carry five men, with casks in proportion. Another life-raft is also described in the same volume by Mr. T. W. Rodger, which is formed of four casks, as in the former case, but it is constructed of such materials besides as every vessel is obliged to take to sea for other pur- poses, viz., slings, capstan bars, gratings, or hatches, and handspikes, lashed together with small ropes or gaskets. Casks of any size may be used, and small spars, such as boat-masts, top-gallants, studdiug-sail booms, topmast stud- ding-sail yards, and many more which it is unnecessary to enumerate, may be substituted for capstan bars. The raft is to be constructed upon deck thus : —While part of the crew are[ 148 ] LIG Llil getting the casks out of the hoLl Jet the rest get the capstan bars, grating, handspikes, and lashing ready. Lay two capstan bars parallel to each other, about six feet apart, on which place three gratings, and lash them together; then lay two more capstan bars athwart the end of the former, one on each side of the grating, and secure them with good lashings, which will form a square platform for the men to stand on. Next let an empty butt be secured to each side of the square by means A slings. At the same time part of the crew may be employed in forming a square on the other side of the deck with four more capstan bars, which is to be placed on the top of the cask, and passed down to the lower square. A handspike may also be lashed to each corner of the raft in an upright positios, a life-line being passed round it, and made fast to the upper end of the handspikes, which will be above the platform. Lines may be passed also in various directions across it for the men to hold Tjy. It may be hoisted into the water in various ways. The buoyancy of four butts, containing one hundred and eight gallons beer measure, is equal to the weight of nearly thirty men, allowing 150 lbs. to each man. LIGHT. See Akgand Lamp, Candle, Gas, and Lamp. LIGHTNING. {See Conductoes of Light- ning.) When persons happen to beovertaken bya thunder-storm, although they may not be terrified by the lightning, yet they naturally wish for shel ter from the rain which usually attends it; and therefore, if no house be at hand, they generally take refuge under the nearest tree. But they thus expose themselves to a double danger; first, because their clothes being thus kept dry, their bodies are rendered more liable to iniury, the lightning often passing harmlessly over a body the surface of which is wet; and, secondly, because a tree or any elevated object, instead of warding off, serves to attract and conduct the lightning, which, in its passage to the ground, frequently rends the trunks and branches, and kills any person or animal who happens to be close to it at the time. Instead of seeking pro- tection, then, by retiring under the shelter of a tree, hayrick, pillar, wall, or hedge, the person should either pursue his way to the nearest house, or get to a part of the road or field which has no high objects that can draw the lightning towards it, and remain there until the storm has subsided. It is particularly dangerous to stand near leaden spouts, iron g.ates, or palisades at such times, metals of all kinds hav^ng so strong an attraction for lightning as frequently to draw it out of the com-se which it would otherwise have takeu. When in a house avoid sitting or standing near the window, door, or walls during a thun- der gust. The nearer you are placed to the middle of the room the better. The greatest danger to be apprehended from lightning is the explosion of powder magazines, which might, in a great degree, be secured from danger by insulation, or by lining the bulk- heads and floorings with materials of a non- conducting nature, the expense of which would not be great. When a person is struck by lightning strip the bodj^ and throw bucketsful of water over it for ten or fifteen minutes; let continued frictions and inflations of the lungs be prac- tised ; and gentle shocks of electricity should be made to pass through the chest, when a skilful person can be procured to apply it, and apply blisters to the breast. The use of electricity in these cases of apparent death is earnestly ad^dsed, because it does not depend upon mere theory; for instances of its success in real cases, as well as in experiments made upon fowls and other small animals, corroborate it, many of which, after being completely deprived of sense and motion by a strong electrical shock passed through the chest, have been recovered by ti'ans- mitting slighter shocks through the same parts; and in this way animation has been suspended and restored alternately for a considerable num- ber of times. Besides, persons seemingly killed by lightning have frequently been restored by the ordinary means used in cases of apparent death; and, from the superior stimulant power of electricity, there is every reason to think that it would have been successful in many cases where these alone have failed. LIGHTS, CALF'S : To Dkess. Cut them into large squares, clean them, and when per- fectly washed from blood put them over the fire to boil. Next remove them to another pan in which is some butter, do them without brown- ing, and dredge thereon a little flour, with the addition of some gravy; stir the whole con- tinually, and season with pepper, salt, parsley, a bay leaf, a clove, and some garlic; boil over a brisk tire, keep shaking it, and when three parts done put in small onions and mush- rooms. Thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs, chopped parsley, and a little lemon juice. LIGNUM VIT^. See GuaiacuM. LIME. As a medicine lime is of consider- able use, and has lately been employed with success in the fevers of America. It is, how- ever, chiefly prescribed in a state of solution, when it is called lime water. This fluid is pre- pared by gradually mixing ^Ib. of new quick- lime with twelve pints of boiling distilled water. The whole is suffered to stand in a coveredLIN [ 149 ] LIM vessel for one hour, when it is poured off and preserved in close bottles. Lime water was formerly in great repute as a solvent of the stone, and a remedy in scrofulous affections. It has likewise been used both externally and internally for cutaneous eruptions, though we by no means approve of its indiscriminate use, which may be attended with dangerous effects. On account of its astringent properties this pre- paration has also been successfully prescribed in cases of diabetes, or immoderate flow of urine, and other disorders proceeding from laxity or weakness of the solids. At present it is chiefly used for washing foul or ill-con- ditioned ulcers. Notwithstanding these useful qualities of lime, it is, if accidentally swallowed or inhaled in any quantity, one of the most fatal poisons. Hence persons employed in lime works become subject to blood-spitting, asthma, painful con- stipations of the bowels, and consumption, their countenance turns* unnaturally pale, and after languishing for years these unhappy victims die in a sleepless state. Bread adul- terated with lime absorbs all those juices of the stomach which ought to promote digestion, obstructs the alimentary canal, occasions almost constant thirst, and at length produces the most violent colics, fevers, and death. As soon, therefore, as it may be discovered that a person has taken into the stomach either lime or gypsum, the first step will be to ad- minister an emetic, consisting of H oz. or 3 ozs. of vinegar of squills, and 20 or 30 grains of ipecacuanha in powder. Large draughts of sour whey should next be given to facilitate the operation of the medicine. In order to counter- act the causticity of lime in the stomach and intestines it will be advisable to drink alter- nately a mixture of vinegar and water, lemonade, or similar acidulated beverage for one day; and, on the other, to make use of mucilaginous decoctions, such as barley or rice water, gruel, fat broths, oils, or sweet whey, in which a small quantity of white soap has been dis- solved ; to eat salads with a large proportion of oil and vinegar, and ripe subacid fruit. To complete the cure it will perhaps be requisite to administer, according to circumstances, emollient or laxative clysters. LIME [Citrus limetta). The lime is not much cultivated in Europe, but its fruit is a great favourite in the West Indies, where it is preserved green, making a most delicious sweet- meat. Limes grow in abundance in Egypt, where the juice is employed in making sherbet, and is also used as vinegar. The tree is smaller and more shrubby than that which bears the lemon, and the fruit, likewise, is not so large as the lemon, and more round in form. LIME TREE, or Linden. The wood is soft, light, and smooth, close grained, and nc easily subject to be infested by the worm i kept in dry places. It is used for makinj, leather-cutters' boards, for carved work, am likewise for turnery-ware. The leaves may b« dried and preserved as winter fodder, bein^' eagerly eaten by sheep and goats. Cows alst- relish them in the autumn, but their milk thus, acquires a very unpleasant taste. Excellent ropes are made of the inner bark on the con- tinent, and which do not soil the linen sus- pended on them for drying. From the same substance the Russians manufacture mats, shoes, and other rustic garments. Linden cordage is so remarkably strong and elastic that in this respect it is superior to iron chains. The wood of the lime tree, though affording an indifferent fuel, may be converted into ex- cellent charcoal for drawing, and for the manu- facture of gunpowder. From the external bai-k Ruger prepared a fine rose-coloured lake. Both the bark and leaves afford materials for a coarse, but smooth brown paper, of a red- dish cast; and that manufactured of the former is peculiarly well calculated for drawings. The seeds yield on expression a sweet and agree- able oil, similar to that which is found in ripe cocoa-nuts, and is of equal service as an in- gredient in chocolate. LIMES : To Pickle. Take new limes, and pickle them when large. Have ready vinegar, with what spice you please ; throw the limes in, and stop the bottle closely. LINEN. {See Clear Starching and Ladn dry-Maid.) The care of the linen, says Mrs. Parkes, in her " Domestic Duties," devolves on the housekeeper generally ; but in small fami- lies the housemaids have the care of it. Be- fore it is sent to be washed it should be ex- amined, and if any part require to be repaired it should be kept back. The housemaid should keep an account of the number of the articles that are sent to the laundry, and count them over on their return, to see that all are right and well aired, and should replace them in the linen press. In putting by the fresh-washed linen care should be taken to place it so that the whole stock may come into use in regular succession, by placing it, for instance, under the rest of the linen, or at the back of the press. If the linen be put damp into the linen closet it will be mildewed, and stains produced which cannot easily be removed. In choosing linen or cambric examine whether the threads are even and close r a raw linen, with uneven threads, does not promise to wear well. Fine linens answer better than the coarse ones, provided they are not unsuitable for theLIN LIN : ] use for which they are destined. The yard-wide linens are not thought so strong and well made as those of the narrower width, but the latter will not always cut out to the same advantage as the wider linens. We advise a large stock of linen, because, if properly attended to, it will last as long again as a small quantity frequently replenished. Those sheets which return from the wash should be looked over, aired, and placed at the bottom of the pile, in either a dry closet or a linen chest. We have found that, on all accounts, it is better to put one clean sheet on the beds very frequently than a pair more seldom : the linen is thus oftener under the eye of a mistress, the appearance of a bed is neater when it is turned down, and the delicious contact of fresh linen is more frequently enjoyed. The luxury of one clean sheet every week is surely greater than that of a pair once a fortnight. On the first appearance of flimsiness in the texture of sheets they should be turned sides into the middle ; on the next symptom of waning the ends should be turned to the middle, and thus, by timely attention, the un sightli- ness of pieced sheets never annoys ; for, by the time that they again look poor, they ought to be cut up for glass cloths, tea cloths, and dusters, as Irish linen never becomes fluey. We loathe those blue and white checked dusters, that look like bits of Noah's bed-curtains. Besides, cotton is mixed with the linen, and the former material is always a nuisance among furniture. Full-sized sheets should measure three yards and a half in length, and two yards and a half wide; children's sheets three yards long and two wide. Linen of all descriptions should be marked with permanent ink. To restore scorched linen, boil to a good con- sistence in half a pint of vinegar 2 ozs. of fullers' earth, 1 oz. of hen's dung, | oz. of yellow soap, and the juice of two onions. Spread this composition over the scorched part, and, if the threads are not actually burnt through, it will remove all traces of the scorch- ing, the linen appearing as white and perfect as before the accident. The composition must dry upon the linen, which will, perhaps, require a couple of washings before all traces of the scorching disappear. LING. This fish resembles the cod ; but its scales are finer, and of a light slate colour. It is generally cooked in the same manner as cod, and is much esteemed. LING: To Choose. Ling is to be chosen by its thickness and colour: that which is thickest about the head is best, and the true colour is a fine pale yellow. It should have a soft even skin, and part from the bone regularly, and Ihere should be some mellowness in the flesh. When the skin is rough, and the whole fish very hard and dry, it is not good. These rules will serve also for judging of all kinds of salted fish whatever. LINIMENT is a medical preparation of a consistence between an ointment and an oil, but so thin as to drop. Liniments are used only as external applications. The follow- ing are very useful:— Liniment of Ammonia. Take of solution of ammonia 1 fluid oz.; olive oil, 2 fluid ozs. Shake them together till they unite. This lini- ment may be made at any time more mild by the addition of a larger proportion of oil. This is an excellent rubefacient, and is efl&- caciously employed in inflammatory sore throat, and to relieve rheumatic pains, rubbed upon the skin over the part affected. It is also very use- ful in various complaints of horses and cattle. Liniment of Camphor. Take of camphor ^ oz.; olive oil, S2 fluid ozs. Dissolve the camphor in the oil. This is a very useful application to glandular swellings, sprains, bruises, and to joints affected with rheumatic pains. It has also been re- commended, with the addition of ^ oz. of the solution of subcarbonate of potash, to be ap- plied to the eyelids night and morning in recent giitta serena. Compound Liniment of Camphor is likewise a veiy useful stimulant to sprains, bruises, and rheumatic pains. It is also an excellent vehicle for introducing opium into the habit by means of friction. One fluid ounce and a half of this liniment, and h fluid oz. of tincture of opium, warmed and rubbed over the surface of the abdo- men, quickly allays the pains of flatulent colic ; or 2 fluid drachms of the rectified oil of amber, mixed with the same quantity of camphor lini- ment, will be sometimes of equal, if not of superior eSicacy, laid on flannel, and applied to the part affected in the same complaint. Liniment of Lime. Take lime water and olive or linseed oil, of each 3 fluid ozs. Mix them. This is very advantageously applied to burns and scalds. Liniment of Soap. Take of Castile soap 3 ozs.; camphor, 1 oz.; spirit of rosemary, 1 pint. Dissolve the camphor in the spirit, then add the soap, and macerate in the heat of a sand bath until they be dissolved. This is that medicine so long known to the public under the name of opodeldoc. It is stimulant and anodyne, and may be advan- tageously applied against local pains and in bruises, rubbed upon the part. The above is the form of making this medi- cine directed by the London College ; but the following is a cheaper, and perhaps equallyC 151 ] LIN LIN efficacious medicine :—Take of soft soap 5 ozs. ; proof spirit, 14 ozs.; oil of rosemary, 1 fluid drachm; oil of origanum, | fluid drachm ; camphor, 3 drachms ; rectified spirit of wine, 4 ozs. Dissolve the soft soap in the proof spirit; dissolve the oils of rosemary, origanum, and camphor in the rectified spirit, and mix the whole together. Liniment of Turpentine. Take of cerate of resin 8 ozs.; oil of turpentine, 4 ozs. Melt the cerate, then add to it the oil of turpentine, and mix. This liniment has been introduced as a dress- ing to bums immediately after they happen, and until the loosening of the eschars. The plan of treating bums is, first, to bathe the parts with warm oil of turpentine, and then to apply plasters of this liniment thickly spread over them, the strength being at the same time supported with wine, opium, and cordials. After the life of the parts appears to be restored purges are given, the cordials omitted, and mild emollient dressings applied. Liniment of Veedigris. Take of verdigris powdered 1 oz.; vinegar, 7 fluid ozs.; honey, 14 ozs. Dissolve the verdigris in the vinegar, and strain it through a linen cloth ; then, having added the honey, boil down the mixture to a proper consistence. This preparation, commonly called Mgypti- aeum, is detergent and escharotic. It is used for taking down fungous flesh, and, consider- ably diluted, is a useful stimulant to foul ulcers. It is also used to stimulate old and obstinate ulcers, and to the cracked heels, &c., of horses. LINSEED, or Lintseed, is produced by the flax plant, Linum usitatissmum. These seeds are esteemed for their emollient and anodyne virtues. They are used externally in cataplasms to mitigate the pain of inflamed tumours. Internally, a weak infusion of them, by way of tea, is recommended in coughs as an excellent pectoral, and as being very service- able in pleurisies, nephritic complaints, and suppressions of urine. Linseed has likewise been employed in Asia, and, during times of scarcity, in Europe, as food ; but it iumishes neither an agreeable nor a wholesome aliment. This seed yields by expression an oil called linseed oil. In its preparation on a large scale the seeds are usually roasted before being pressed, in order to destroy the gummy matter contained in their exterior coating. The oil is thus obtained more free from mucilage, but more highly coloured and more acrid than that obtained by cold expression. It differs from most other oils in having a tendency to con- solidate and harden by long exposure to the air, and hence it is highly useful in painting. and in the manufacture of printers' ink. Used medicinally it is laxative in a dose of 1 fluid oz.; but, on account of its disagreeable taste, it is seldom given internally. It has, however, been highly recommended as a cure for piles in the dose of 2 fluid ozs. of the fresh oil every moming and evening. When the seed is ground it is called linseed meal, and is em- ployed in emollient poultices to assuage the pain of inflamed tumours {see Cataplasm); and after being crushed, and the oil expressed, the residue forms a cake, which has been long used as a nutritious and fattening food for cattle, as well as a valuable manure. Linseed is demul- cent and emollient. The mucilage obtained by infusing the entire seeds in boiling water, in the proportion of ^ oz. to a pint, is much and very advantageously employed in catarrh, dysentery, nephritic and calculous complaints, strangury, and other diseases of the mucous membrane of the lungs, intestines, and urinary passages. This oil possesses particularly a tendency to harden and become solid on long exposure to the air. It is this peculiar quality that is taken advantage of in its application to furniture, and which, with a little patience and no hard rubbing, will produce a varnish far superior in durability, beauty, and usefulness to French polish, or any mixture for the purpose which we have ever seen. A very little linseed oil is to be poured into a saucer, and then with a small piece of clean rag smear the furniture with it. In a few minutes wipe it off with an old duster kept for the pur- pose, and then rub the tables, &c., quite clean with a second cloth. This simple, easy opera- tion, performed regularly once a week, will gradually produce a polish that is unrivalled ; for, unless it were to be washed with soap, it will not injure. Boiling water even might be poured over it with impunity ; indeed, occasional washing with plain water is an advantage to it. Unlike the easily spoiled varnishes of the shops, furniture that is rubbed with this oil is not so readily scratched; and if it be, the next week's application will nearly obliterate the marks. Again, the pores of the wood being filled with the application, it becomes very hard, and is able to resist the attacks of insects. LINT, in surgery, signifies linen scraped so as to form a soft woolly substance, which is employed in dressing wounds. It is made into various forms, denominated according to the shape of which they consist. Thus, if it be oval, it is called a pledget; and if cylindrical it is termed a dossil. The purposes to which lint is applied are :— 1. To prevent the flow of blood in fresh wounds, by filling them with this absorbentL IQ [ 152 ] LIP substance before a bandage can be applied. 2. To promote the healing of wounds, espe- cially when spread with some digestive oint- ment or balsam. 3. For drying wounds and ulcers. 4. To keep them open, in order that the lips may not close before the interior part is perfectly healed; and, lastly, to pre- serve wounds from the hurtful influence of the air. Trifling as lint may appear, it is an article of considerable utility, and with which every family should always be provided, to serve in case of sudden emergencv. LIP SALVE, FKENCH. Lard, 16ozs.; white wax, 2 ozs.; nitre and alum in fine powder, of each ^ oz.; alkanet to colour. LIP SALVE, GERMAN. Butter of cacao, i oz.; oil of almonds, ^ oz. Melt together with a gentle heat, and add 6 drops of essence of lemon. LIP SALVE, GRAPE. Pommade au raisin pour les levres. Put into a glazed earthen pipkin ^ lb. of fresh butter, I lb. of fine yellow wax, 1 oz. of alkanet, and three bunches of black grapes. Boil together, and strain without pres- sure through linen. LIP SALVE, PERUVIAN. As either of the above, substituting 20 or 30 drops of Peruvian balsam for the otto : 8 drops of oil of lavender may be added. LIP SALVE, ROSE. Oil of almonds, 3 ozs.; alkanet, \ oz. Digest with a gentle heat, and filter. Melt l^^oz. of white wax and | oz. of spermaceti with the filtered oil, stir it until it begins to thicken, and add from 12 to 36 drops of otto of roses, Or, white wax, 1 oz.; oil of sweet almonds, 2 ozs.; alkanet, 1 drachm. Digest till coloured, strain, and add 6 drops of otto of roses. LIQUEUR, ANISETTE. Pound 2 ozs. of green aniseed, 1 oz. of coriander, 2 scruples of cinnamon, and \ scruple of mace; put these ingredients into a jar with two quarts of brandy, and add some sugar (6 ozs. to the quart); leave the whole to infuse for a month; then filter it through blotting paper. I>IQUEUR, CASSIS. Take 31bs. of very ripe black currants, and crush them; put them into a jar with nine pints of brandy, and add, if you like, some cloves and a little pounded cinnamon tied up in muslin. At the end of two months pour off the liqueur, and squeeze the fruit dry; put back the juice into the jar, with 1 f lb. of sugar; leave it for a time to dissolve the sugar, after which filter it through blotting paper into bottles. This liqueur in three or four years will acquire the delicious flavour of Rota wiue. LIQUEUR, CITRONNELLE. To the zest of twelve lemons put eight quarts of brandy in the manner hereafter mentioned (See Liqueurs), add two pieces of cinnamon broken, and 1 oz. of coriander, with 2 lbs. of sugar, which must be dissolved in three quarts of water during a month. Clarify by a bag, and if necessary with a paper filter, and bottle. LIQUEUR, CREME D'ANGfiLIQUE. Pluck the leaves from some stalks of green angelica, and cut the latter into pieces like celery. To | lb. add 3 drachms of nutmeg, 1 drachm of cinnamon, six cloves, and 2 lbs. of sugar dissolved in one quart of water. Mix the whole with three quarts of brandy ; leave it to infuse six weeks ; then filter and bottle it. LIQUEUR, CREME DE CANNELLE. To a quart of spirits oi wine add twenty drops of oil of cinnamon, and two of oil of roses. Shake the mixture well until the oils are properly dis- solved ; then mix with it a quart of the syrup, and a sufficient quantity of red tincture to pro- duce a bright, full colour; filter and bottle it immediately. LIQUEUR, CREME DE CITRON. Put sixty drops of oil of citron into a quart of spirits of wine ; shake it well, then mix with it the quart of syrup, for making which see Liqueurs, Syrup for ; add likewise 2 ozs. of the yellow colouring matter, and then filter the whole through filtering paper. If not suffi- ciently bright and pellucid filter it a second time through some fresh paper; then bottle it for use. LIQUEUR, CRfiME DE GIROFLE. It is made by adding forty drops oi oil of cloves to a quart of spirits of wine, and after shaking it well, mixing with it a quai't of syrup, and as much of the red colouring matter as will impart to it a good colour. Filter it through blotting paper, and bottle it immediately. LIQUEUR, CREME DE MENTHE. Drop into a quart of spirits of wine twenty five drops of oil of mint, and three of oil of citron ; shake up well, and mix with it a quart of syrup; add as much as may be deemed necessary of green colouring matter, and then filter and bottle the liqueur. LIQUEUR, CREME DE ROSE, is pre- pared much in the same manner as Liqueur, Creme DE Cannelle. Into a quart of spirits of wine put twelve drops of oil of roses, and three of oil of nutmeg; shake the mixture well, and when the oils are dissolved add a quart of the syrup, and a sufficient quantity of pink mixture to produce a fine rose colour. It may then be filtered and bottled. LIQUEUR, CREME DE VANILLE. Into a quart of spmts of wine put twelve drops of the tincture of vanilla, shake it well, and then add a quart of the syrup. When well mixed let it stand ten minutes, and then filter it twiceLIQ LIQ [ 153 ] or thrice, if necessary, through filtering paper. If it is bright and clear after coming through the filtering paper the first time it need not be filtered again. LIQUEUR, CURAgOA (1). Boil a quart of water in a very clean stewpan ; add to it, bit by bit, 1 lb. of dark brown sugar candy, and when the whole is dissolved let the syrup boil up ; then pour it into a deep dish to cool. Do not use the syrup until it is quite cold. Into a quart of spirits of wine drop one hundred and twenty drops of oil of bitter orange. When the latter is dissolved mix it with the syrup just described; then filter and bottle the liqueur, which should be of a rich brown colour. LIQUEUR, CURAgOA (2). Make an in- fusion of 3 ozs. of the thin peel of fresh Seville oranges, 4^ lbs. of sugar, and a good pinch of Brazil wood in six quarts of good brandy. In a few days filter it, and bottle it for use. LIQUEUR, GOLDEN WASSER, or Dantzic Brandt. To a quart of spirits of wine add twelve drops of oil of aniseed, six drops of oil of cinnamon, three drops of oil of roses, and eight drops of oil of citron, and shake them well. As soon as the oils are dissolved mix with it a quart of the syrup, filter it through filtering paper, and before you bottle the liqueur stir into it a square of gold leaf cut into very little pieces. LIQUEUR, KtiMMEL. To a quart of spirits of wine add seventy drops of oil of caraways, and after you have shaken it well mix with it a quart of syrup ; filter it, and it will be fit to bottle. LIQUEUR, MARASCHINO. Take a quart of spirits of wine, and infuse in it for a month thirty black cherry stones entirely free from the pulp, and washed clean. Filter this liquor through blotting paper, clarify 2^ lbs. of fine sugar, pour it to the liquor, and add a quart of water and a pint of rum ; shake up the mixture •well, and bottle it. This liqueur is extremely agreeable, LIQUEUR, NOYEAU. Into a quart of spirits of wine put twenty drops of good essential oil of bitter almonds, and six drops of oil of orange ; shake it well, and then add a quart of syrup. Filter it through the paper till it is clear and bright. LIQUEUR, POMERANZEN, is made by adding to a quart of spirits of wine ninety drops ol oil of orange and a quart of the syrup. It must be filtered. LIQUEUR, WACKHOLDER. Into a quart of spirits of wine put thirty drops of oil of juniper, shake well, and add a quart of the syrup. When it is filtered bottle it for use. LIQUEUR, WALNUT. Take eighty walnuts, green, but sufficiently formed for a pin to pass through tnem ; crush them, and let them infuse two months in four quarts of brandy. Next strain the liquor from the walnuts, put into it 2 lbs. of sugar, and let it settle three months more ; then filter and bottle it. LIQUEURS. The enormous cost of the French, German, Dutch, and Italian liqueurs, not only in this country, but in every other, renders their being prepared in a cheap form a most desirable thing. As an agreeable ter- mination to a repast, and at the same time a gentle and wholesome stimulus, that induces the stomach to perform its digestive functions more kindly, these liqueurs are in great request among the wealthy; but from the excessive price at which they are sold the less affluent classes are debarred from their use, and obliged to resort to the gin or brandy bottle, the contents of which are taken either in the form of a dram or mixed with hot water and sugar, the water being used very sparingly. The particular effect looked to from the use of these cordial preparations is a gentle action of the stomach, and nothing more. They are, therefore, to be taken sparingly. Hence the object of having a very small glass, which contains a sufficient dose to prove beneficial. Brandy, gin, or any other spirit, being almost, perhaps quite, as strong as the liqueurs, is always taken in too great quantities to do good, and is, besides, devoid of the agreeable perfume which gives such a relish to the liqueur, and makes it grateful to the palate. Let us not, however, be understood to say that the use of liqueurs ought to explode that of wine. On the contrary, one must co-operate with the other. A small glass of liqueur is no bad winding up to three or four glasses of port or sherry, though it would do just as much good as if no wine at all had been drunk. But the practice of taking spirit and water as a sub- stitute for wine is bad, because, unless the mixture be very weak, the spirit excites the stomach to a very injurious degree, and impedes, instead of aiding the digestion. In all foreign countries the liqueur is used as a chasse cafe. being taken immediately after the small cup of very strong coffee with which every foreign dinner concludes. Neither the French, nor the Germans, nor the Italians sit sotting after din- ner as we Englishmen do after the ladies have left the table. Abroad that odious practice of turning the ladies out of the dining-room is unknown. Ladies and gentlemen all rise after the dessert has been partaken of, and if the coffee and liqueur are not taken at the dinner- table, which they usually are, retire together to the drawing-room, and take them there. Such a practice, were it adopted here, would be found far preferable to the besotted habitsLIQ [ 154 ] LIQ which vje have retained from our less refined ancestors. In the countries where these liqueurs are made they are distilled from the fruits and plants of which they carry the flavour, and mixed with sugar and alcohol. This mode of preparation, which is generally considered the best, is attended with considerable expense, without, in our opinion, giving the liqueurs a superiority over those made after the fashion we are about to indicate, that might compensate for the difference in the cost. Indeed, if the alcohol be good, we assume that as perfect liqueurs may be made by our receipts as by the most elaborate use of the alembic, and at one- third of the expense. Our system, as the reader may have already surmised, is the use of the essential oils; but much care is required in selecting the alcohol, which, in this country, is generally harsh, and not wholly free from empyreuma, unless rectified to order in small quantities. The spirit in England is not distilled from wine, like that of France and Germany, and is consequently inferior in quality to the spirit of those coun- tries. Hence it is that the eau de Cologne in England, though made from the same receipt, is not comparable to that manufactured at Cologne or at Paris. The syrup required for the liqueurs which we shall indicate—indeed, for all liqueurs made with essential oils—should be 62° over proof. If the liqueur to be made is intended to be kept, or for sale, a rectifier should be applied to for a few gallons of spirit carefully rectified to the re- quisite height; and let it be understood that, although these liqueurs are fit for use the moment they are made, they improve greatly by being kept, and, after a few years, might vie with the most famed. The art of preparing liqueurs is based on certain general and fundamental rules, a rigid attention to which will prevent failure and save trouble. The spirit that they are made of should invariably be that which will com- municate the least foreign taste to the liqueurs. Now, they are usually made of gin, and no liqueur that is so prepared will ever be grateful to a refined or educated palate. The juniper flavour is most penetrating and powerful. It pervades, as it were, evei7thing it enters into, and interferes with every flavour it is mixed with. It is one of the uncomhinahles, and should never be added to anything that is not meant to taste like gin. This latter objection applies likewise to rum. Spirit of wine is, beyond all comparison, the best article from which cor- dials can be made. It is destitute of colour—a very great object—and has no flavour, so that any flavours may be added without its inter- fering with, modifying, or altering them. Spirit of wine is likewise a decidedly cheap spirit. It may be bought for 3s. 6d. a pint, and when diluted with an equal quantity of water it is of ordinary brandy strength. It is then a spirit which costs no more virtually than Is. 9d. a pint. The next article of general importance in the making of liqueurs is syrup. This should be always made of the very best lump sugar that can be procured. The finer the sugar the more delicate will be the hqueur. The syrup should be made of the strength of 1 lb. of sugar to a pint of water. It should be brought to the boil, and then aUowed to cool. It ought never to be added hot to the spirit. LIQUEURS, SYRUP FOR. Put a quart of water into a saucepan, and let it boil; then drop into it, lump by lump, 1 lb. of loaf sugar. When all the sugar is dissolved let it boil again, and put it into a broad dish to cool. When cool it will be fit for use. LIQUORICE, called also Extract of Liquorice and Spanish Juice, is obtained from the roots of the liquorice plant, Glycyrrhiza glabra. It is cultivated in almost every country in Europe. Tiie plant has a long, succulent, tough, and pliant root, which penetrates deeply into the ground ; and hence the soil best adapted for its cultivation is a light, sandy loam, trenched two to three feet deep, and manured if necessaiy After a plantation is made it is allowed to remain three years before it is disturbed, and then it is trenched up for the sake of its roots. The roots are either sold to the brewers' drug- gists, or the ordinary druggists, or herbalists, or preserved, like carrots or potatoes, in sand till required for use. Liquorice is grown in this country; at Mitcham, in Surrey, very extensively, and at Pontefract, in Yorkshire. Used medi cinally liquorice root is an excellent demulcent, well adapted for catarrhal affections and irrita- tion of the mucous membrane of the bowels and urinary passages, and is best given in the form of a decoction, made by boiling 1 oz. of the bruised root for a few minutes in a pint of water. Liquorice root contains the following ingredients :—1. A peculiar transparent, yellow substance, called ghjcyrrhizin or glycion. This is of a sweet, saccharine taste, scarcely soluble in cold water, but very soluble in boiling water, with which it gelatinises when cool, and very distinct in its constitution from sugar. 2. A crystallisable principle, first called by Robiquet agedoite, but since found to be identical with asparagin ; 3. Starch ; 4. Albumen ; 5. A brown, acrid resin ; 6. A brown, azotised ex- tractive matter; 7. Lignin ; 8. Salts of lime and magnesia, with phosphoric, sulphuric, and malic acids. The extract of liquorice, called also SpanishLIQ LIV [ 16S ] juice, Spanish sugar, and black sugar, is obtained from the root of this plant. The roots having been dug up, they are thoroughly cleansed, and, half dried by exposure to the air, are cut into small pieces, and boiled in water till the liquid is saturated. The decoction is then allowed to rest, and, after the dregs have subsided, is decanted and evaporated to the proper con- sistence. The extract thus formed is made into rolls from five to six inches long, by an inch in diameter, which are dried in the air and wrapped in bay leaves. Much of the best of this liquorice is made in Catalonia, but a great deal is pre- pared in Calabria from Glycyrrhiza echinata, ■which abounds in that country, and is con- sidered better and purer than that made from common Kquorice. Refined liquorice is made by dissolving the impure extract in water with- out boiling, then straining the solution and evaporating it. It is customary to add during the process a portion of sugar, and sometimes, perhaps, mucilage or glue; and flour or starch is a frequent adulteration. Pontefract cakes have for centuries been made at the town of that name, and are small lozenges of refined liquorice, impressed with a rude figure of a castle, in- tended to represent Pontefract Castle. To refine it take Spanish liquorice, 4 lbs.; gum arable, 2lbs.; water, a sufiicient quantity. Dissolve, strain, evaporate gently to a soft extract, roll into cylinders, cut into lengths, and polish by rubbing them together in a box. Ex- pectorant in coughs. LIQUORICE PASTE. Scrape and bruise Jib. of liquorice root, and boil it in a little water till it is much reduced; let it stand to settle, pour it off clear, and dissolve in it i oz. of gum dragon. When thoroughly dis- solved sift it in a linen bag, mix sugar with it till it is brought to the consistence of a paste ; and then cut it into what flowers or designs you think proper. LITHARGE, or Half-vitrified Oxide of Lead, is obtained by exposing calcined lead to a brisk fire, sufficiently strong to melt it into an oil, which, on cooling, concretes into a flaky matter. Thus, according to the different degrees of heat, it assumes a deep or pale red colour : the former is generally called litharge of silver, and the latter litharge of gold. This preparation is of extensive utility for roasting gold, silver, or copper ores, as it liquefies all earthy and extraneous matters into glass, and thus the metal is more easily separated. Litharge is also employed by potters for glazing their wares (though such vessels are unwholesome), and likewise in the composition of certain glasses, because it is not only fusible in itself, but contri- butes to the fusion of other substances. Lastly, it may be revived into lead, and thus considerable quantities, which are produced by refining metals, are again converted into their original form by melting them upon burning coals. LITHARGE PLASTER is the same as Diachylon. LIVER: To Fry. Liver should be cut across the grain in slices about half an inch thick; pour boiling water over them, drain, and season with pepper and salt; flour each piece, and drop it into a frying-pan with hot bacon dripping. Do not fry it any longer than it is done, or it will be hard; take it up in a dish, make gravy as for beef, and pour over it. LIVER, CALF'S: To Dress. Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and boil it; then rub over it a little butter, and serve it hot. To roast the liver wash it thoroughly, then make an incision in it, and stuff it with bread crumbs, chopped anchovy, herbs, fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a little butter, and an egg. Fasten this tightly and lard it, or wrap the liver in a veal caul and roast it. Serve with brown gravy and currant jelly. LIVER,' CALF'S (and Bacon). Cut the liver into thin slices, and fry them till nicely browned. Next do the same with thin slices of bacon, lay them upon the liver, and serve the dish up with a little gravy and crisped parsley. LIVER IN CAUL. Take the lean livers of pullets, capons, geese, turkeys, &c., with marrow, bacon, veal sweetbreads, mushrooms, truflles, some lean dressed ham, some onion, and parsley. When well minced mix it with some yolks of eggs to bind it. Take the caul off a calf or sheep, and cut it into pieces according to the size you would have them ; lay some of the farce on each piece of caul, and place fat liver upon that, then some more forcemeat, then another liver, then forcemeat, and so on till you have laid all. Put the pieces of caul on a sheet of paper, and fry them in boiling lard, or bake them in an oven in a patty pan. When they are done drain away the fat, lay them in a dish, warm a little gravy, season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the livers; add a squeeze of orange or lemon juice, and serve. LIVER, INFLAMMATION OF. Inde- pendently of the causes producing other inflam- mations—such as cold, or external injuries from bruises and blows—this disease may be brought on by violent exercise ; by intense summer heats, long-continued agues, and remittent fevers ; by high living, more particularly by an intemperate use of vinous and spirituous liquors; and by various solid concretions in the substance of the liver itself. Derangement of the digestive organs, suppressed secretions, inflammation, compression, fevers, and affections of the mind, are also very general causes of obstructions and diseases of the liver.[ 156 ] LIV LI V The usual symptoms of inflammation of the livei- are pain on the right side, often pungent, as in pleurisy, but sometimes dull; pain in the collar-bone, and at the top of the right shoulder; uuea^y lying on the left side, difficult breathing, cough, and vomiting. There is frequently, also, some degree of jaundice. This disease, if properly treated, is seldom attended with fatal consequences. It is some- times carried off by a copious bleeding from the nose, or by the hemorrhoidal vessels ; also by sweating, a looseness, or by an evacuation of urine which deposits a copious sediment. Its most favourable termination is by resolution; and this is effected by bleeding, leeching, or cupping, according to the violence of the symp- toms, and by the application of blisters, purga- tives, fomentations, &c. After bleeding has been used a proper dose of submuriate of mercury, with jalap or scam- mony, should be administered, repeating it every other day until the symptoms of inflam- mation subside; giving, in the meantime, saline medicines, &c., to keep up a discharge on the skin. These measures being adopted, several keches may be applied over the region of the liver, or a sufficient quantity of blood may be drawn off by means of the scarificator and cup- ping-glasses ; and then, if the symptoms do not abate after using these means, a large blister, applied over the seat of the liver, will probably prove serviceable, which may be followed by another, should it heal up too soon. Should suppuration take place it is danger- ous ; but sometimes the matter points outwardly, the ulcer heals, and the consequences are pre- vented, or cure promoted, by the Peruvian bark, to which a few drops of elixir of vitriol may be added. In the chronic form of this disease general bleeding is never necessary. The ordinary plan of cure in this state of the disease is by means of mercury, given in small doses, and slowly and externally, by means of friction, so as to keep up a coppery taste in the mouth for some time, as it promotes the secretion of bile, and excites the minute vessels in the surface. To increase, however, this latter effect, it has been found advantageous to unite with the mer- cury a small proportion of antimonial powder, as well as of opium, to protect the bowels fx'om irritation. To keep up the regular peristaltic motion of the intestines, &c., one or two of the following pills may be taken occasionally at bedtime:—Take compound extract of colo- cynth, ] drachm; -submuriate of mercury, 1 scruple ; tartarised antimony, 4 grains ; oil of caraway, 7 drops; cinnamon syrup, a sufficient quantity to form the mass, which is to be made into thirty pilla. The following draught, which is also given in acute inflammation of the liver, for the purpose of keeping the bowels gently open, may be taken:—Take infusion of senna, 1^ oz.; Epsom salts, 3 drachms; tincture of jalap and syrup of buckthorn, of each 1 drachm. Mix for a draught. There are few afflicted with liver complaints who will not avail themselves of proper advice and medical treatment, for which reason we purposely omit detailing the various means that are adopted in the plan of cure, particularly the use of mercury, which always requires the ut- most skill and judgment in the administration of it. In the chronic stage of inflammation of the liver a continued course of bitter tonics and aperients, as taraxacum, gentian root, quassia, calumba, with soda, are advised ; and the nitric acid of modern chemists has been recommended. Flannel worn next the skin, the flesh brush, removal from a cold to a warm climate, &c., are calculated to effect healthy changes, as auxiliaries to an alterative course of medicine in the chronic stage of this complaint. LIVER WITH PARSLEY SAUCE. Wash the liver (which should be quite fresh) of a fowl or rabbit, and boil it for ten minutes in five table-spoonsful of water; chop it fine, or pound or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve ; wash about one-third its bulk of parsley, boil it in a little boiling water with a tea- spoonful of salt in it; lay it on a hair sieve to drain, and chop it very fine ; mix it with the liver, put it into a quarter of a pint of melted butter, and warm it up. Do not let it boil. LIVER PUDDING. Parboil and grate lib. of liver and 1 lb. of suet; soak ^ lb. of bread in a pint of cream or milk, and mix it with spices and sweet herbs. If eggs are to be used it may be made more liquid. Grits may be used in- stead of bread or any other seasoning, with cooked onions, and as much minced suet as liver ; add the milk or cream'^ spices, and sweet herbs ; mix in the liver, and test it. If it is rather thin add an egg or two, or a few crumbs; if too thick, a little milk. LIVER SAUCE. Take the livers of poultry or game, and chop them veiy small, with parsley, scallions, tarragon leaves, and shallots; soak them in a little butter over the fire, and then pound them ; add cullis stock, pepper, and salt; give the whole a boil with two glasses of red wine, coriander, cinnamon, and sugar; reduce, strain it, and thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour. Serve in a sauce-boat, LIVER SAUCE FOR BOILED CHICK- ENS. Boil the livers of chickens till you can[ 157 ] LOA LIV bruise them with the back of a spoon, and mix them in a little of the liquor thej were boiled in ; melt some butter till very smooth, and put it to them; add a little grated lemon-peel, and boil all up together. LIVER SAUSAGE. Take four lambs'livers, with the lights and heart; have two lambs' heads cleaned, and boil them with any scraps or skinny pieces you have; skim the pot, take out the livers when they are done, and let the heads boil longer. When they are done pick out the bones, and chop all up together; season with sage, thym«, sweet marjoram, salt, and pepper; put it m pans, and fry it as sausage. LIVER STOCK. Fresh livers of old cattle give the highest-flavoured and strongest stock, which is excellent. Wash and wipe the liver before cutting it into thin slices; put it inta a broad frying-pan, with butter or rendered beef suet, and fry it slowly of a deep brown. If a great deal of colour is wanted dust it with fl^our, but do not let it harden much. Slice and fry 3 ozs. of onion, with a carrot and turnip, to every pound of liver; dress a saucepan with thin slices of bacon; put over them the liver, and cover this with the vegetables ; add allspice, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, with a pint of browned water to each pound, or more if for soup. Lute the vessel, and set it upon a hot hearth or in a hot oven for four or five hours. In simmering meat no evaporation ought to take place, as it carries off the spirit. LIVER TOASTS. Make a farce with some bread soaked in cream, truffles, one or two fat livers, marrow, and shallots, all well pounded, and mixed with shred parsley, pepper, salt, and eggs ; cut some slices of crumb of bread about half an inch thick, spread the farce on of the same thickness as the bread, smooth them with a knife dipped in white of egg, strew bread crumbs over, and fry them. Serve with any clear sauce under them. LIVP]RNAISE. This sauce is only a mace- doine made with Espagnole instead of bechamel. Eeduce a few carrots and turnips to a glaze, and add them to the Espagnole, taking care that it does not boil, LIVERS WITH MUSHEOOMS. Take the livers of any sort of tame fowls, and when they are cleared from the galls put pieces of bacon at the bottom of a baking-pan, and lay the livers upon them ; season the livers, cover them with pieces of bacon, and bake them in a moderately heated oven. Wash and pick some mushrooms, dry them over a stove, and lay them in a dish, with a little bacon and vinegar; then toss some slices of ham in boil- ing lard, with a bunch of savory and a pinch of flour, and moisten with some veal gravy. When the mushrooms and livers are well drained boil them in the same sauce, skim off the fat, ar d serve them up hot. LIVERS AU RAGOtT. Take the liver of a turkey and the livers of half a dozen fowls, clean them, and take the greatest care not to break the galls, for if the livers are bitter the dish will be spoiled. Put them into cold water, and then put the livers of the fowls into a stewpan, with rather more than a quarter of a pint of gravy, a spoonful of catsup, a spoonful of pickled mushrooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some salt and pepper. Stew them gently ten or twelve minutes. Nicely broil the turkey's liver, lay it in the middle of the dish, place the stewed liver round it, and pour the sauce over. LIVERS, TOQRTE OF. Put the crust upon a pie dish in the usual manner, and lay pounded bacon at the bottom; season the livers, and place them on the bacon; cover them with butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, one slice of ham, and a few slices of bacon ; cover and bake. The ham, bacon, and herbs must be taken out when done ; drain ofi" the fat, pour a ragout of cock's combs in, and serve. LIVERWORT, SYRUP OF. Make a quart of strong liverwort tea by extracting two sets of herbs in the same water; tie a tea-cup of flax seed in a bag, and put with it; keep it covered while drawing. When the strength is all out strain it on ] lb. of sugar, and let it boil slowly till it is thick, keeping it covered to prevent the strength from going off. When cold bottle it, and set the bottle in a cool place while using it. Take a table-spoonful about six times a day. This has been used for a cough with great benefit. LOADSTONE. See Magnet. LOIF CAKE. Take about lib. of risen dough, and work into it a tea-cup of butter, three beaten eggs, 1 lb. of sugar, a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy or wine : 1 lb. of raisins, stoned and chopped, should be added after it is well beaten. Half a pint of cream slightly warmed, with a table-spoonful of vinegar and a tea-spoon- ful of dissolved saleratus, should be stirred in just as you are ready to bake it; also sifted flour enough to make it of a proper consistence. Bake in a large pan in a brick oven or stove, and it will require an hour and a quarter. LOAF A LA DUCHESSE. Blanch and pound 2 ozs. of pistachio nuts, J lb. of sweet almonds, 2 ozs. of dried lemon chips, and ^ lb. of sugar. When all these are reduced to a paste mix it with the yolks of six eggs, add the whites well beaten, form into the shape of a loaf, place it in a buttered dish, and bake in a slow oven. When done glaze and strew nonpareils over it. LOAF, ROYAL. Take out nearly all the crumb of a small round or oval loaf of fineLOA LOB [ 158 3 "white tread ; put the crust in cream to soften, then fill it with raspberry jam, placing the crust on the top, which has been cut off to take out the cramb, after being soaked in the cream ; put it on the dish, and pour over it a good custard. LOAB\ SPANISH. Scoop out the crumb from half a dozen crusty rolls, and fill them with any sort of cream you may think proper; soak them in Spanish wine for a short time, sprinkle flour over, and fry them. Glaze them before they are sent to table. LOAF EN SURPRISE. Scoop out the crumb from a French roll, dry the crust a minute in the oven, glaze, and replace it to dry. When cold fill it with blanc-manger, put it on ice, and when the blanc-manger is quite firm, place it on a dish for table. This should be done either with one large French brick, or three or four rolls. LOBSTER A LA BRAISE. Pound the meat of a large lobster very fine with 2 ozs. of butter, and season it with grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper; add a little grated bread, beat up two eggs, reserve part to put over the meat, and with the rest make it up into the form of a lobster; pound the spawn and red part, and spread this over it. Bake it a quarter of an hour, and just before serving lay over it the tail and body shell, with the small claws put underneath to resemble a lobster. LOBSTER CAKE. Pound the meat of two boiled lobsters with the lean of raw ham, some beef marrow, the yolks of four eggs, a bit of bread soaked in cream, a little mace pounded, Cayenne pepper, and salt, and colour the whole with lobster spawn; then line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, press down the mixture upon it, cover with pieces of bacon, put on the cover of the mould, and then put it into the oven. Bake an hour and a half, and let it stand till cold; turn it out of the mould, take the fat away, and serve the cake up either modelled or plain, -with some savoury jelly round it. LOBSTER, COLLOPS OF {m the Shell). Cut the lobster in two without breaking the shell, take out all the meat, and cut it into dice; remove all the inside of the lobster, and clean the shell. Put two spoonsful of veloute, a little butter, salt, and Cayenne pepper into a saucepan, and stir over the fire. When quite hot put in the minced meat and the inside, and pour the whole together into the shell; smooth it with a knife, strew bread crumbs over, baste it with clarified butter, make it very hot, and colour it with a salamander. LOBSTER CROQUETTES. Takethemeat from the shell, chop it finely, and mix it with a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace; and one quarter part of fine bread crumbs, make them up into balls with melted butter, brush the balls with yolk of egg, dredge them with bread crumbs, and fiy them, serving with or without gravy. If dry they must be sent up with crisped parsley. LOBSTER, CURRY OF. Take the lobsters from their shells, and lay them in a pan, with a small piece of mace, four spoonsful of veal gravy, and four of cream; rub one or two tea-spoonsful of curry powder till quite smooth, one tea- spoonful of flour, and 1 oz. of butter; add these to the contents of the pan. Simmer for an hour, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and add salt. LOBSTER FRICASSEE. Break the shells, and take out the meat carefully; cut it and the red part, or coral, into pieces, adding the spawn ; thicken with flour and butter some white stock in which the shells have been boiled; season it with white pepper, mace, and salt; put in the lobster, and heat it up. Just before serving add a little lemon juice or lemon pickle. The stock may be made with the shells only, boiled in a pint of water, with some white pepper, salt, and a little mace, thickened with cream, flour, and butter. LOBSTER, ITALIAN SALAD OF. Take two lobsters, cut them into pieces, taking off the claws and tails, each of which split in two ; the spawn rub through a dry sieve to garnish the salad, made in the following manner:—Wash two or three cabbage lettuces, take away the stalks, and cut them in large shreds; slice a beet- root and a cucumber ; wash, pick, and cut into long shreds four anchovies; chop some tarragon, chervil, and two boiled eggs, the yolks and ■whites chopped separately. If you have any cauliflowers or French beans boil and put them with the other things to garnish. Having every- thing prepared, place the lettuces in the centre of the dish in a heap, and arrange the lobster and other things according to your taste, and just before you serve garnish with Italian salad sauce. LOBSTER PATTIES. Sheet your patty pans with puff paste, and put a small piece of crumb of bread into each ; then cover them with more paste, tiim round the pans, wash the tops of the paste with egg, and bake them of a light colour. When they are to be served take out_ the bread, and fill with lobster chopped; add to them a little strong consomme of veal, a small quantity of flour, lemon juice, Cayenne pepper, lemon-peel, a shallot chopped fine, an anchovy rubbed through a sieve, and mixed over the fire for five minutes. The lobsters should be half boiled before they are chopped for the patties. LOBSTER PIE (1). Boil the lobsters, and cut the meat from the tails into four bits; takeLOB [ 1S9 ] LOB out the meat from the claws and bodies, pound it in a mortar, add the soft part of one lob- ster, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, adding three table-spoonsful of vinegar; melt ^ lb. of butter, and mix it with the pounded meat and the crumb of a slice of bread grated. Put puff paste round the edge and side of the dish, put in the tail of the lobster, then a layer of oysters with their liquor, and next the pounded meat; cover it with a puff paste, and bake it till the paste is done. Before serving pour in some rich gravy, made of a little weak stock in which the lobster shells have been boiled, with an onion, pepper, and salt, and which has been strained and thickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour. LOBSTER PIE (2). Take out as whole as possible the meat from the tail and claws of two or three boiled lobsters, cut it into slices, and season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Make a forcemeat of the soft part of the bodies, together with grated bread, some parsley, and one anchovy minced, grated lemon-peel, mace, salt, pepper, the yolks of two hard-boUed eggs bruised, and a bit of butter; mix the whole together with the yolk of an egg well beaten, and make it up into small balls. Put the lobster into a pie dish, and cover it with the forcemeat balls and hard-boiled yolks of eggs; add more than half a pint of rich white stock, a glass of white wine, and a table-spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar; cover it with puff paste, and bake it only till the paste is done. LOBSTER RISSOLES. Extract the meat of a boiled lobster, mince it as fine as possible, mix with it the coral pounded till smooth, and some yolks of hard-boiled eggs, also pounded. Season it with Cayenne pepper, powdered mace, and a very little salt. Make a batter of beaten eggs, milk, and flour, allowing to each egg two large table-spoonsful of milk and a large tea-spoonful of flour. Beat the batter well, and then mix the lobster with it gradually till it is stiff enough to make oval balls about the size of a large plum. Fry them in the best salad oil, and serve them up either warm or cold. LOBSTER, ROASTED. More than half boil a lobster, take it out of the water, and while hot rub it with butter; put it in a Dutch oven, baste it well till nicely frothed, and serve with melted butter. LOBSTER SALAD. Take one or two heads of white-heart lettuce : they should be as fresh as possible. If they are not " morning gathered " lay them in spring water for an hour or two, then carefully wash them, and trim off all the withered or cankered leaves; let them drain awhile, and dry them lightly in a clean napkin. To make the dressing, boil two eggs for twelve minutes, and put them in a basin of cold water for a few minutes, till the yolks become thoroughly cold and hard. Rub the yolks through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a table-spoonful of water ; then add two table-spoonsful of oil or melted butter. When these are well mixed add by degrees a tea- spoonful of salt and the same of made mustard, and when these are smoothly united add very gradually three table-spoonsful of vinegar. Take out the finest parts of a lobster, and mince them small. Just before it is to be served mince the lettuce, and mix it with the lobster and dressing; cut up the white of an egg, ad garnish the salad with it. Hen lobsters are preferred for salad on account of their coral. LOBSTER SAUCE (1). Pound the coral, pour upon it two spoonsful of gravy, and strain it into some melted butter; then put in the meat of the lobster, give all one boil, and add the squeeze of a lemon. You may, if you choose, add two anchovies pounded. LOBSTER SAUCE (2). Take a hen lobster, and lift up the tail to observe whether the eggs are there, for the goodness of the sauce depends upon the spawn, which gives it both a fine flavour and a brilliant colour. If you get a live lobster, and boil it yourself, it will be best; then pick out the spawn and red part, put the same into a mortar, add thereto | oz. of butter, pound it till smooth, and rub it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon; cut the meat into small squares, or divide it with a fork ; put the pounded spawn into melted butter, and stir the whole till thoroughly mixed; then add the meat of the lobster, and warm it on the fire, taking care not to let it boil, which would spoil its colour. Some persons substitute beef or veal gravy for melted butter, and add thereto the high season- ing of anchovy, Cayenne, catsup, lemon juice, and wine, but certainly not to the advantage of the sauce. Save some of the inside of the red spawn, and rub it through a sieve, but without butter. This will make an excellent garnish. The live spawn of lobsters may be kept some time in strong salt and water, or in ice. LOBSTER IN A SAVOURY JELLY Make a good aspic jelly, which being very clear, and the mould ready in ice, half fill the latter with the jelly, and when it is set lay some anchovies shred fine in what form you please on the jelly; then your lobster, cut the same as for salad, over it; fill the mould with the re- mainder of the jelly, and when set serve it for a second-course entree or a supper dish. LOBSTER, SMALL TIMBALES OF. Take the white meat from a couple of small lobsters, and cut it into dice ; mix two spoonsful of bechamel with J lb. of fresh butter, a little shred parsley, a tea-spoonful of essence of an-LOB LOB [ 100 cbovy, and lialf a spoonful of elder vinegar; make it hot, but not boiling ; put in the lobster, season with pepper and salt, fill some small custard moulds with this, and serve hot. LOBSTER SOUP. Boil three fine young hen lobsters, and when cold split the tails, take out the meat, crack the claws, and cut the meat into pieces. Take out the coral and soft parts of the body, bruise part of the coral in a mortar, pick out the meat from the chines, bruise part of it with the coral, and make with this forcemeat balls, seasoned with mace or nutmeg, grated lemon- peel, anchovy, and Cayenne ; pound these with the yolk of an egg. Have ready three quarts of veal stock ; bruise the small legs and the chine, and put them into the stock to boil for twenty minutes ; then strain it, and to thicken it take the fresh coral, and bruise it in a mortar with a little butter and flour; rub it through a sieve, and put it to the soup, with the meat of the lobsters and the remaining coral; let it simmer very gently for ten minutes ; do not let it boil, or Its fine red colour will immediately fade ; pour it into a tureen, and add the juice of a lemon and a little essence of anchovy. LOBSTERS. Buy these alive. The lobster merchants sometimes keep them till they are starved before they boil them; they are then watery, and have not half their Havour. Choose those that, as an old cook says, are " heavy and lively," and are full of motion, which is the index to their freshness. Those of the middle size are the best. Never take them when the shell is incrusted, which is a sign they are old. The male lobster is preferred to eat, and the female (on account of the eggs) to make sauce of. The hen lobster is distinguished by having a broader tail than the male, and smaller claws. Set on a pot with water, salted in the proportion of a table- spoonful of salt to a quart of water ; when the water boils put the lobster in, and keep it boiling briskly from half an hour to an hour, according to its size ; wipe all the scum off it, and rub the shell with a little butter or sweet oil; break off the great claws, crack them care- fully in each joint, so that they may not be shattered, and yet come to pieces easily ; cut the tail down the middle, and send the body up whole. LOBSTERS : To Choose. The heaviest are considered the best. When alive, if they are quite fresh, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. When you buy them ready boiled try •whether their tails are stiff and pull with a, spring, otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster may be distinguished from the hen by the narrow back part of the tail, and the two uppermost fins will be stiff and hard; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, has a higher colour, tTie flesh is firmer, and the colour, when boiled, is a deeper red. They come in about AprD, and remain in season till the oysters return. Hen lobsters are preferred for sauces on account of their coral. LOBSTERS : To Marinate. Half boil them, take out the meat, and lard the tails with a salted eel; then cut the tails lengthways, and fry them in oil. Make a sauce with white vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace, sliced ginger, parsley, sage, winter savory, sweet marjoram, the tops of rosemary and thyme, and soma J)ay leaves: dish the lobsters, and pour the sauce over them; lay upon them three lemons cut into slices, and run them all over with butter LOBSTERS: To Pickle. Boil your lob- sters in vinegar, white wine, and salt; then take them up, and put into the liquor all sorts of sweet herbs, cloves, pepper, and mace ; then put in the lobsters again, and boil the whole together. When completely done take them out, put them into a barrel or vessel just large enough to hold them, pour the liquor over them, and set them by for use. LOBSTERS : To Serve. These are seldom sent to table whole, and therefore nothing more need be said than that the tail is the prime part, and next to that the claws. LOBSTERS : To Stew (1). Put the lobsters into a stewpan, with vinegar, claret, butter, suet, and nutmeg; stew them rather dry, and then take them up and lay them in a dish ; pour butter over them, and garnish with slices of lemon. LOBSTERS : To Stew (2). Pick the lob- sters from the shells, put the coral into a dish that is heated by a lamp, and rub it down with a bit of butter, two spoonsful of any sort of gravy, one of soy or walnut catsup, a small quantity of salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port. Stew the lobsters, and cut them into bits ill the gravy as above. LOBSTERS, BROILED. When the lobsters are boiled split their tails and chines, crack the claws, and pepper and salt them ; take out their bodies, and what is called the lady; then put them again into the shell, and then on the grid- iron over a clear fire, with the tails and claws ; baste them with butter, and serve them with melted butter for sauce. LOBSTERS, BUTTERED. Boil them, take out the meat, and cut it into pieces, to which put a little gravy, the inside of the lobsters, and the spawn bruised ; add a very little white wine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon-peel grated, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon juice; stir all these together, aud let it boil up. Quarter the chine, season it with pepper and salt, broil it, and lay it on the dish on the rest. Garnish with sliced lemon.LOG LOB [ 161 ] LOBSTERS, POTTED. Take out the mea* as whole as you can, spHt the tail, and remove, the gut. If the inside is not very moist add a little water. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves in the finest powder. Put a little butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobsters smoothly over it, with bay leaves between; cover them with butter, and bake thera gently. When done pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces in potting jars, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold pour clarified butter over it, but not hot. It will be good the day after it is done, and, if very highly seasoned and thickly covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with cream sauce. LOBSTERS, SAUCE FOR. Bruise the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs with a spoon, or pound them in a mortar with a very little water, and the soft inner part or spawn of the fish; rub thera till quite smooth with a tea-spoonful of made mustard, two table-spoonsful of olive oil^ and five of vinegar, and season with a little Cayenne pepper and salt. Some add to thi& elder or tarragon vinegar, or the essence of anchovy. LOCK. A well-known contrivance for fasten* ing doors, chests, or the like, and which is generally opened with a key. From the different structure of locks adapted to various purposes they acquire different names. Those fixed on outer doors are called stop-locks; those on chamber doors spring-locks; and such as are affixed to trunks are known by the name of padlocks, trunk-locks, &c. Of these the spring-lock is the principal, both on account of its more general utility, and for the curious intricacy of its structure. Its chief constituent parts are the main-plate, cover-plate, and pin- hole. To the first belong the keyhole, top-hook, cross-wards, bolt-toe or bolt-knab, draw-back spring-tumbler, pin of the tumbler, and staples. With the cover-plate are connected a pin, main- ward, cross-ward, and step-ward, or dap-ward. Lastly, the pin-hole corresponds with the hook- ward, main cross-ward, shank, pot or beard, bow- ward, and bit. The excellence of locks consists in the security they afford ; and, as numberless schemes are con- tinually brought forward by designing men to elude every contrivance of the most ingenious mechanics, the invention of a durable lock, so constructed as to render it impossible for any person to open it without the proper key, has ever been an object of considerable importance. To invent such a fastening Bramah, Chubb, Friend, and many others have devised locks, known by their names, all more or less ex- cellent, but which cannot be rendered in- VOL. II. telligible without many drawings and lengthy descriptions. Of some other curious inventions for addi-. tional security we can only give a passing notice. Some locks have been made in which the action depends on the key being a powerful magnet. In others the difficulty of opening is increased by requiring a peculiar method of applying the key; but, in addition to the circumstance that the secret must be known to several persons, these contrivances have the disadvantage of being very inconvenient in use. As a mere mechanical curiosity we may refer to one contrived by Mr. Thomas Arkwright, and described in the eighteenth volume of the " Transactions of the Society of Arts," pp. 239-242, in which a key with two bits, and requiring eight or nine distinct movements in the act of unlocking, is used with a double lock capable of shooting two distinct bolts. In Mr. Lawsou's lock, referred to by Holland, there is a sliding curtain, by which, it is stated, " the keyhole is so perfectly closed during the act of unlocking, that it would be impossible to move the bolt while a pick re- mains in the aperture." In Gottlieb's lock, patented in 1829, a piece of paper is so placed that no key can be put in without perforating it, and that it cannot be removed excepting by an application of the proper key; and, to prevent the possibility of substituting a fresh paper, its inventor proposed to use pieces bearing some device, and torn from a cheque- book, which would serve as a tally. In 1831 a patent was obtained by Mr. Rutherford, of Jedburgh, for the application of a stop-plate to the bolt of a lock in such a manner that it should be impossible to open the lock with its own key until, by the action of clockwork with- in or connected with the lock, the stop-plate should be brought into a certain position. By this contrivance a person locking up a bank- safe, cash-box, or a package intended to be sent to a distance, may so arrange the lock that it cannot be opened until the expiration of a certain number of hours. Many contrivances have been effected for attaching an alarum to locks, by which the inti'oduction of a false key should ring a bell or fire a pistol. A good alarum lock, acting upon a bell inclosed within the case or box of the lock itself, invented by Mr. Meighan, is described in the " Transactions of the Society of Arts," vol. li., part i., pp. 128-130. The compound locks used for the doors of iron safes, and for similar purposes, though pondei'ous and complicated in their appearance, are in reality of simple construction. Although they often throw out two or three bolts in every direction, that is to say, on each side, and to- wards the top and bottom of the door, these are 74[ 162 ] LOG LOG usually but so many brancheg of four massive pieces of iron, capable of being simultaneously projected or retracted by a fixed or removable handle in the centre of the door, the actual lock being but small, and merely intended to move an apparatus by which the great bolts are themselves locked or held fast, so that the key need not bear any proportion to the magnitude of the bolts by which the door is secured. In such cases a single lock may be made to serve for securing all the bolts ; but in an ex- cellent quadruple lock invented by Mr. Dace, of Wolverhampton, rewarded by the Society of Arts in 1823, and published in the forty-second volume of their "Transactions," p. 125, four bolts, each secured by a distinct set of tumblers resembling those used in Ghubb's locks, are shot in succession by a single key in one com- plete revolution. To pick this lock, therefore, would require as much time and trouble as to pick four distinct locks of the same kind. In conclusion, without attempting even to enu- merate the various kinds of locks in common use, we may notice two useful inventions relating to street-door locks. Of the contrivances for moving draw-back and other bolts by means of fixed handles we have said nothing, as these are matters readily understood by an inspection of any common door lock, and are not essentially connected with the principles of security. It is a defect of ordinary draw-back locks that occa- sionally, from want of oil, from the bevelled end of the bolt becoming rusty, or from some other cause, they will not close without slamming the door violently, and are liable not to act at all, 60 that the door may be, to all appearance, shut properly, without the bolt shooting into its socket. To remedy these inconveniences Mr. Bullock devised, and submitted to the Society of Arts in 1801, a very simple addition to the ordinary door lock, consisting of an internal catch, which detains the bolt when it is drawn back, but is released, the instant the door is thoroughly closed, by the pressure of a small projecting piece against the cbeek or jamb of the doorway. The details are fully given in the Society's "Transactions," vol. xix., pp. 290-293. The second invention referred to is Ghubb's combination latch, which combines the simple lifting action of the ordinary French latch, or that which opens with a handle inside the door, and with a key from without, with much of the security of a tumbler lock. In it two, three, four, or more distinct latches are mounted, like a series of tumblers, upon one axis, and made to shut into or behind a double catch, in such a ■way that they can only be disengaged from it by being all of them raised at once to one exact height, by an arrangement similar to that by •which a series of tumblers are raised. LOGKED JAW, or Tetanus, has been noticed in its slighter forms under the heads GoNVULSioNS and Gramp. This disease is characterised by a spasmodi rigidity of the whole body. There are several varieties of it : 1. OpistJwtonos, where the body is thrown back by spasmodic contractions of the muscles; 2. Emprosthotonos, the body being bent forward; 3. Trismxis, locked jaw ; although these are only modifications of one and the same disease. Tetanus is often symptomatic of vene- real affections and worms. The above affections arise more frequently in warm climates than in cold ones, and are very apt to occur where much rain or moisture quickly succeeds excessively dry and sultry wea- ther. They attack persons of all ages, sexes, constitutions, and complexions, but the male sex more frequently than the female, and those of a robust and vigorous constitution sooner than those of a weaker habit. They are occa- sioned by exposure to cold while under a state of profuse perspiration, sleeping in the open air on damp ground, or by the pressure of irritating substances in the stomach and bowels, such as worms ; or by some irritation of the nerves, in consequence of local injury by puncture, in- cision, or laceration. If the disease has been brought on in conse- quence of a puncture, wound, or any external injury, the symptoms show themselves generally about the eighth or ninth day, and are almost sure to prove fatal before the tenth day; but where it proceeds from an exposure to cold they generally make their appearance much sooner. The disease makes its attack in some cases suddenly and with great violence ; but it most generally happens that it commences in a more gradual manner, coming on by a slight stiffness, being at first perceived in the back part of the neck, which in a short time con- siderably increases, and ultimately renders the motion of the head both difficult and painful. With this stiffness of the head there is also an uneasy sensation at the root of the tongue, with some difficulty of swallowing; and great light- ness is felt about the chest, with pain at the extremity of the breast-bone, shooting into tlie back. A stiffness also takes place in the jaws, which soon increases to such a height that the teeth become so closely fixed together as not to allow of the smallest opening. When the tetanic affection is confined to the jaw the disease is called locked jaw. In some cases the spasmodic affection extends no further; in others the spasms, at this stage of the disease, returning with great frequency, become like- wise more general, affecting not only the muscles of the neck and jaws, but likewise those of the whole of the back-bone, so as toLOO LOG [ 163 ] bend the trunk of the body very forcibly back- ■wards, &c. The disorder continuing to advance, every organ depending on voluntary motion becomes affected, the eyes are stiff and immovable in their sockets; the countenance is hideously dis- torted, expressive of the greatest distress; the strength at last becomes exhausted, the pulse irregular, and universal spasm of the whole frame puts a period to a most misei'able and excruciating state of existence. In the treatment of this formidable disease the first object of consideration should be to ascertain the cause ; for, however unmanageable any disease may be, the patient should by no means be left in a miserable state of existence without making some efforts to relieve, or at least to palliate, his sufferings; and the only chance of being able to succeed in either of these intentions is a knowledge of the circum- stance that may have given rise to the disease. For instance, should locked jaw be occasioned in consequence of a lacerated or punctured wound in any part of the body, the injured spot should be carefully and minutely examined, and any foreign body that may have lodged in the part instantly extracted by making a free incision into the wound. These steps being taken, a small quantity of strong lotion of opium—tincture of opium, 1 drachm; water, 1^ oz.—should be poured into the wound, dressing it afterwards with a piece of lint dipped in the lotion, and lay- ing another piece spread with basilicon over the whole, moistening the wound with the same solu- tion every time the dressings are renewed in the preceding manner; or it has been recommended to use the lunar caustic by touching the wound freely with it, and afterwards covering the part with a bread-and-milk poultice. An eminent French surgeon (Baron Larrey) has, in similar cases, recommended the free application of a hot iron, and afterwards bringing the wound to a state of suppuration as soon as possible by means of stimulating applications. In those cases of trismus where the jaws are so firmly locked as to prevent nourishment from being conveyed into the stomach, and where the teeth are quite perfect in front, it will be neces- sary to have some of them drawn, in order to pass down the medicine as well as the food ; and when the power of swallowing is lost, opium, which, it appears, has been employed with the best effects in this disease, is to be administered in the form of clysters, as well as externally, by rubbing those parts most frequently that are principally affected. Opium, given internally, is said to have its effect increased by combining it with other anti- spasmodic medicines, such as musk, ether, and camphor. The following, therefore, are recom- mended to be tried, increasing the quantity of opium from five to ten drops in each succeeding dose:—Take musk, 10 grains; spirit of cinna- mon, 2 drachms; camphor mixture, 1 oz.; tinc- ture of opium, 20 drops; or, camphor mixture, 1 2 ozs.; compound spirit of ether, 1 oz. ; tincture of opium, ^ oz.; of which give two table-spoons- ful every three hours. For external use take opium finely powdered, 2 drachms ; camphor, ^ oz.; hog s lard, 1 oz. : incorporate them well together for use. Or, soap liniment (opodeldoc), 2 ozs.; tincture of opium, ^ oz. A variety of other formula and medicines might be here introduced, such as Barbadoes tar, turpentine, the hot bath impregnated with quicklime, mercury externally and internally administered, &c.; but few if any of such means have ever been found successful. Costiveness, which is an attendant on this disease, must be removed by some active open- ing medicine, and the patient's strength sup- ported with wine mixed in such nutritious vehicles as will admit of being most easily swallowed. As an opening draught the follow- ing may be given :—Take infusion of senna, H oz.; sulphate of soda (Glauber's salts), | oz.; tincture of jalap, 2 drachms; syrup of buck- thorn, I drachm. To be repeated from time to time as occasion may require. LOGWOOD [Hmmatoxylon CampecManum). The trees are cut into billets, the bark and white sap of which are chipped off, while the red part, or heart only, is selected for sale. Logwood is used in great quantities for dyeing purple, green, blue, and especially for black colours, according to the different ingredients employed. These, however, are not durable unless previously tinged brown in a decoc- tion of the dried Iceland liverwort, which serves as the basis of fixing the colouring matter. Indeed, there are many indigenous plants that may be advantageously substituted for logwood and other dyeing drugs. Independently of its utility as a dyeing drug, logwood has lately been found to possess con- siderable astringency as a medicine; hence a decoction, as well as an extract from it, has been given with advantage in cases of diarrhoea. LONGEVITY. See Age, and other refer- ences there given. LOOKING-GLASS. {See Glass.) Looking- glasses are made of plate glass, which is cast and ground in the manner described under the article Glass. After the plates are polished some fine blotting paper is spread on the table, and strewed over with levigated chalk, which is covered with a thin leaf of tinfoil. Upon the latter is poured the purest quicksilver, which ought to be distributed uniformly over the leaf with cotton or other soft substance; over the[ ] LOO LOT mei'ciiry clean paper must be placed; and upon this, at length, the glass plate is pressed down hy the right hand, while the paper is gently removed with the left. The plate is now covered with a thicker paper or cloth, and a heavy weight laid on it, so that the super- fluous quicksilver may be expressed, and the tin adhere closely to the glass: when it is suffi- ciently dry the weights are taken o£f, and the work is complete. Looking-glasses should not be placed against damp walls, or in other moist situations, where the quicksilver loses its tenacity, and the beauty of the glass will in a short time be impaired. To clean a looking-glass. Having blown the dust off the gilt frame, or removed it with a very light, soft dusting-brush, wash the glass, taking particular care not to wet or rub the gilding. Keep for this purpose a piece of fine sponge, a soft cloth, and an old silk handker- chief, all perfectly clean, as the least grit ^vould scratch the surface of the glass. First sponge it with a little spirits of wine or gin and water so as to remove all spots, then dust the glass over with powder blue tied in muslin, rub it lightly and quickly off, and polish with the silk hand- kerchief. Swinging looking-glasses. The pintle upon which a looking-glass swings is commonly a piece of iron wire, having a screw thread turned at each end. One end is inserted in the frame of the glass, and the other, passing through the stand, is received into a mahogany knob, which, on being turned, serves to tighten the frame to the stand, and thus keep the plate on any desired slope. After a little time the screw wears away the fine indentations in the wood, the hole becomes larger, and the thread of the screw, having no hold to tighten the stand to the frame, ceases to act, and the glass falls to the perpendicular. Many schemes are then resorted to, such as wedging with paper, &c., to remedy the incon- venience ; but the effect of these is only tem- porary. The best way of proceeding is to get a small metal plate counter-sunk into the side of the frame on the one hand, and another into the knob. Both these plates must have a female ihread cut to receive the screw, and then the frame can be tightened with certainty by merely turning the knob; or one end of the pintle may be squared and inserted firmly in the knob, while the other, having a screw thread, will tighten or relax the frame, and stand as desired. The purchasers of glasses should always get this done before receiving them, and we hope this hint will induce manufacturers to adopt so cheap and certain a remedy in all cases in future, because the inconvenience is a yery general one, and often of long standing. LOOSENESS. See Diahrhcea. LORRAINE SOUP. Take lib. of almonds, blanch them, and beat them fine in a mortar, with a very little water to keep them from oiling ; then take all the white part of a large roasted fowl, with the yolks of four poached eggs, and pound the whole together as fine as possible. Take three quarts of strong veal broth—let it be very white, and all the fat skimmed off clean—pour it into a stewpan with the other ingredients, and mix them well together. Boil them gently over a slow fire, and mince the white part of another fowl very fine; season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little beaten mace; put in a bit of butter about the size of an egg, with a spoonful or two of the soup strained, and set it over the fire to keep quite hot. Cut two French rolls into thin slices, and set them before the fire to crisp; then take one of the hollow loaves which are made for oysters, and fill it with the minced fowl; close the roll as neatly as possible, and keep it hot; strain the soup through a very fine sieve into a clean saucepan, and let it stew till it is of the thick- ness of cream; put the crisped bread into the dish or tureen, pour the soup over it, place the roll with the minced meat in the middle, and serve it up. LOTION is literally a wash, being a liquid for bathing any inflamed or otherwise diseased part. We shall only mention a few, as under the heads of particular parts of the body and diseases we have mentioned such lotions as are applicable. AcETATED Lotion of Ammonia. Rectified spirit of wine, 2 ozs.; acetated liquor of am- monia, 5 ozs. In phlegmonous or local in- flammation. Black Wash. Calomel, 2 drachms; lime water, 1 pint. In syphilitic ulcers, &c. Eye Water. Liquor of acetated ammonia, 2 ozs. ; camphor mixture, 6 ozs. This is a good application after ophthalmia, when the eyes are relaxed an^ weak. See Collyrium. For the Pdrulent Sore Eyes of Children. Blue vitriol, 3 grains; camphor mixture, 5 ozs. For Painful Sore Eyes. Opium, 10 grains, dissolved in 12 ozs. of boiling water, and strained, to which add 6 grains of camphor. Lotton for Scorbutic Ulcers. Tincture of myrrh and lime water, of each 2 ozs. Lotion for Stings of Wasps, Bees, Gnats, &c. One or two applications of the following lotion are usually quite sufficient to remove the pain and inflammation attendant on the stings of the above insects :—Take rose water, 4 ozs.; acetated liquor of ammonia, 2 ozs. ; tincture of bella- donna, 1 drachm. Make a lotion, to be applied to the injured part, in the way of fomentation, by means of a piece of linen rag.[ 1C5 ] L UN LOU LOUSE. See Lice. LOVAGE : To Make. For three gallons take six quarts of spirits, one of the spirits of wine, 1^ lb. of celery, 6 dwts. of cinnamon, 10 drops of the oil of caraway, and 2 lbs. of sugar. Fill up with water. The celery must be cut small, the mace and cinnamon pounded in a mortar, and the whole steeped for three days in the spirits of wine. The oil of caraway must be killed in the usual way. Fine with alum o^ly, and colour it pale with burnt sugar. LOVE APPLE. See Toihato. LOVE IN DISGUISE. Clean and stuff a calf's heart, cover it an inch thick with force- meat, roll it in vermicelli, put it into a dish with a little water, and bake it. When done serve it in its own gravy. LOVING CUP. Toast some bread, and place it in a bowl that will hold two quarts; grate over it some nutmeg, pour in a quart of ale, and then two-thirds of a bottle of sherry ; sweeten to taste, and immediately before serving add a bottle of soda water. LOZENGE CAKES. Roll out puff paste, cut it into strips, and then into lozenges; glaze and put them into the oven. When they are baked glaze them if required, and serve. LOZENGES, BLACK CURRANT. Pijt any quantity of black currants into a large jar, cover it closely, set it in a moderate oven, and let it remain all night; then press the juice or pulp through a coarse thin cloth as dry as possible, and set it on the fire, with ^ lb. of powdered loaf sugar to about three pints of pulp. Only let it simmer, stirring it almost constantly; skim it, and when it becomes thick rub a large flat dish with a little butter, pour in the jai^i, and set it before the fire or in a cool oven to dry. When sufficiently dry cut it into lozenges. LOZENGES, GINGER. To 1 lb. of brown sugar take ^ oz. of prepared ginger arid \ oz. of powdered rhubarb; mix them well together, and put it into a brass pan, with t^o table- spoonsful of peppermint water and \ oz. of magnesia ; stir it, and let it have one thorough boil up; then pour it on a stone or large dish, rubbed over with olive oil, or fresh b^tter, and make it up into lozenges. These lozenges have been found useful for indigestion or acidity oji the stomach. LUCIFER MATCHES. Form six parts of glue into a smooth jelly, and rub with it four parts of phosphorus, at a temperature of 140° or 150° Fahr.; add ten parts of nitre, five of red ochre, and two of fine smalts. The matches are first dipped in melted wax to the depth of one- tenth of an inch, previously rubbing their ends on a hot iron plate. Or, glue six parts; phos- phorus, four; nitre, ten ; red-lead, five; smalts, two. The glue is soaked in water for twenty-four hours, then liquefied in a warm mortar, and tht, phosphorus added, taking care that the tem- perature is not above 167° Fahr. Or, glue, twenty-one parts ; phosphorus, seven teen ; nitre, thirty-eight; red-lead, twenty-four. Proceed as before. Noiseless Congreves. Triturate nine parts of phosphorus with a solution of sixteen parts of gum, and add fourteen parts of nitre and sixteen of vermilion. LUMBAGO and Sciatica. {See Rheuma- tism.) When chronic rheumatism affects the small of the back it is known by the name of hmk^ffo. The pains shoot downwards from the loins, the patient cannot stand upright without experiencing great pain, nor does he find any ease in bed. When this disease fixes itself in the hip joint it is called sciatica. Both of these forms of the disease require to be treated nearly in the same manner as chronic rheumatism. In sciatica and pains situated in the hips and loins turpentine is frequently given with con- siderable benefit. The hot bath, when the patient is strong and the symptoms moderate, is of service, continuing in it from about fif- teen to twenty-five minutes. The following bolus, given also in rheumatism when the fever is gone, may be taken at bedtime: — Extract of opium, 1J grain; powder of ipeca- cuanha, 3 grains; nitre, 10 grains; confection of opium, 1 scruple; syrup, enough to make a bolus. The balsam of Peru, taken to the quantity of 30 drops twice a day, has been of use in lumbago and sciatica; also the balsam of copaiva and Canada turpentine. Rubbing the part until it becomes inflamed with the flour of mustard has a good effect, as well as mustard whey, made in the following manner, drunk plentifully :—Take milk and water, of each 1 i pint; bruised mustard seed, 2 ozs. Boil these together until the curd be perfectly separated from the milk. Strain afterwards through a cloth. This is a convenient and beneficial method of administering mustard, and is found equally efficacious as a drink in palsy and dropsy, as it invigorates the habit and promotes the different secretions. A little sugar may bo a,dded to it to render it more palatable. The dose may be a tea-cupful five or six times a day. LUNACY. See Madness. LUNAR CAUSTIC. See Caustic. LUNCHEON is a very necessary meal be- tween an early breakfast and a late dinner, for a healthy stomach should not be without a fresh supply of food once in four hours. Luncheon should be a light repast, and to this end Dr Kitchener recommends a bit of roasted poultry, a basin of good beef tea, or eggs poached or boiled in the shell, fish plainly dressed, or aL IT N Bainlwicli, stale bread, and half a pmt of good home-brewed beer, or toast and water, with about one-fourth or one-third part of its measure of wine, of which port is preferred. The solidity of the luncheon should be pro- portionate to the time it is intended to enable you to wait for your dinner, and the activity of the exercise you take in the meantime. LUNGS, INFLAMMATION OF. This complaint is known'by a great load and oppres- sion at the chest; difficulty of breathing ; some- times the patient cannot breathe but in an tipright posture; the breath is hot, attended with cough and fever; the face is swelled and of a livid colour. The cough is commonly moist, and the phlegm frequently streaked^ with blood ; the pain not so superficial, nor the pulse so full or hai'd as in pleurisy, though the diffi- culty of breathing, anxiety, and oppressive weight are more distressing. If the urine deposit a white and uniform sediment it is a favourable symptom, and pro- mises safety to the patient and shortness of the disease; and so does a red sediment which gradually changes to a white, or turbid urine depositing a copious sediment, as well as an early appearance and continuance of what is called an erysipelatous blush, or a miliary eruption. The treatment consists in bleeding at the commencement from a large orifice, and to repeat it according to the exigency of the symp- toms ; but great care and attention are required with regard to this operation, for if the habit of body be strong, the pulse full, firm, and hard, it may be repeated with safety, otherwise great caution is requisite, lest, by an unnecessary repetition, we do irrecoverable injury. Leeches or cupping-glasses may be applied over the seat of the pain, and the following purge given at the commencement:—Take submuriate of mer- cury, 5 grains; conserve of hips, the same quantity. Make a pill, to be taken immediately, after which the following draught: —Epsom salts, 3 drachms; senna tea, 2 ozs.; syrup, 1 drachm. As it will be necessary to keep the bowels gently open from time to time, the above draught may be given either once, twice, or three times, in proportion to the effects it may produce. To promote expectoration, which should b« forwarded by every possible means, and to de- termine a gentle perspu-ation to the surface of the body, any of the following may be given, viz.:—Take purified nitre, 1 diachm; oxymel of squills, 3 drachms. Make a mixture, and take a tea-spoonful often, or when the cough is troublesome. Or, oil of almonds, 1 oz.; syrup of tolu, I oz.; spermaceti, beaten up vfith a solution of gum arabic or the yolk of an egg ; confection of dog roses, or hips, \oz. Mix them up, and let the patient take a little fre- quently. Or, antimonial powder, 1^ grain to 3 grains; confection of roses, 10 grains. Mix for a bolus, to be taken every thi-ee hours. Or, James's powder, 4 grains for a dose. Bathing the feet every night in warm water will be of service; and, when once expectoration has copiously appeared, caution must be ob- served in promoting purging, as this, as well as blood-letting, would tend to check it. At this period of the disease costiveness should be re- moved by clysters or gentle aperients. A large blister, as the first proper step, may be applied over the seat of the pain ; and should it show a disposition to heal up soon a fresh one ought to be applied somewhere in its imme- diate neighbourhood, so as to keep up a constant effect—a method, in this instance, preferable to keeping up a discharge from the surface of the old blister by means of stimulating oint- ments, as is too frequently practised. Blisters may be used in any stage of the disease, and in many cases where blood-letting cannot be carried far enough, or even not resorted to at all, and in the pleurisies of old people, are very beneficial. At the commencement of this disease opiates would evidently be injurious by interrupting the expectoration, and therefore should not be given until previous bleeding and blistering 'have greatly relieved the pain and difficulty of bi'eathing. In the more advanced stage, where a cough is the only urgent symptom, and proves the principal cause either of the continuance of pain or of the want of sleep, opiates will be highly useful, and may, therefore, be given in the form of a draught, combined with, pectoral medicines, to be taken at about bedtime, as in the follomng form:—Take solution of acetate of ammopia, 6 drachms; mint water, 2 ozs.; tincture of opium, 1^ drachm; syrup of tolu, 2 drachms ; solution of tartarised antimony, ^ drachm. Mix, and take one-half at bedtime. During the whole of the complaint the pa- tient should be confined to bed, lying with his head and shoulders as much elevated as pos- sible ; his chamber kept cool and quiet; and his strength supported with food of a light nutritive natm-e, such as roasted or boiled apples, panado, &c. His drink should be thin gruel and barley water sweetened with honey, or a decoction of liquorice root, in which a small portion of currant jelly may be dissolved to give it a pleasant tartness. The patient, on recovering, should carefully guard against any exposure to cold, or any irregularity which might occasion a relapse; for no inflammation is so apt to reciur as thatLUN MAC r 107 ] of the lungs, and a return of it might lay the foundation of pulmonary consumption. LUNGS, SPURIOUS INFLAMMATION OF. This is also called bastard peupneumony. This is another species of the last-mentioned disease, which attacks, for the most part, people advanced in years, especially such as are of a phlegmatic habit; it is also occasioned by cold, being most frequent in autumn and spring, or where there are frequent changes of the weather from heat to cold. The disease is often so slight as only to resemble a violent cold, which, after the employment of a few proper remedies, goes off by a free and copious expectoration, and often with the throwing up of a considerable quantity of ropy matter. If early advice be taken, and there is great difficulty of breathing, with much pain, it will be proper to bleed, for the purpose of render- ing the circulation free through the lungs ; but where these do not prevail bleeding must be omitted, as much harm might be done by taking away blood unnecessarily, by inducing weakness, as the disease principally attacks eldei'ly people, and, as previously stated, such as are of a phlegmatic habit. Strong purgatives, also, on this account should be avoided. The difficulty of breathing and oppression at the chest will be best relieved by a large blister immediately over the part affected ; and if there be nausea, or inclination to vomit, a gentle emetic may be administered ; but where this is not the case, antimonial medicine, as directed in Lungs, Inflammation of the. To procure a perspiration, and in order to keep up a constant effect, they should be repeated every two or three hours, the patient at the same time drinking plentifully of lukewarm liquors, such as barley water, &c. Costiveness may be removed by clysters or gentle laxatives, such as manna, lenitive electuary, Epsom salts, &c. Throughout the course of this disease, as in all those of the inflammatory kind, abstinence from animal and high-seasoned food must be strictly enjoined. Where much weakness pre- vails, or where the patient has long been accustomed to a free use of fermented liquors, a small quantity of wine or porter may be allowed. There are other diseases, scarcely to be dis- tinguished from inflammation of the lungs, requiring a similar treatment, which it will not be necessary, in a work on domestic affairs, to treat of separately, such as inflammation of the diaphragm, heart-pericardium, &c. As the means of cure, however, are the same, and as the parts are no less immediately necessaiy to life, promptitude and diligence must be em- ]iloyed ; and no time must be lost in endeavour- ing to cut short the disease, as well as,, when this measure fails, by exerting our utmost to conduct it to a favourable crisis. LUTE is the name of any plastic substance applied to a crack in a vessel or to joints of pipes, to prevent the escape of the liquids or vapours which the vessel or pipes may contain, or to protect them from injury by the fire to which they have to be exposed. To prevent the escape of the vapours of water, spirit, or liquors not corrosive, the simple application of slips of moistened bladder will answer very well for glass vessels ; and slips of brown paper, with a stiff paste made with flour and water mixed cold, for metals, such as still-heads, &c. The bladder, to be very adhesive, should be soaked some time in warm water till it feels clammy. If smeared with white of egg instead of water it adheres still more closely. Linseed meal, moistened with water to a proper consistence, well beaten, and applied pretty thickly over the joinings of the vessel, is another very convenient lute. Almond paste answers also the same purpose ; but these will not do as fire lutes. The following is a good fire lute :—Take some whites of eggs, with as much water; beat them well together, and sprinkle in sufficient slaked lime to make up the whole to the consistence of a thin paste. The lime should be slaked by being once dipped in v.ater, and then suffered to fall into powder. This cement should be spread on slips of cloth and applied immediately. A solution of glue may be used instead of the white of eggs. A mixture of liquid glue, white of eggs, and lime makes a lute so firm that broken vessels united with it are almost as strong as when sound. None of these lutes will, however, enable vessels to hold liquids for any great length of time. For confining acid vapours, thefat lute, made with good clay, or tobacco-pipe clay powdered, and mixing it with drying linseed oil, and then beating them for a long time to the con- sistence of a thick paste, is one of the best. A lute to be applied round glass retorts, to protect them from the immediate contact of the fire, may be made thus:—Mix sand with a sufficient quantity of clay to make it adhere together, and beat them up with some fibrous material so as mechanically to increase the tenacity. Windsor loam and horse-dung are of this kind; but chopped straw, chaff, cow- hair, or tow, mixed with the clay and sand, will answer the same purpose. M. MACARONI: To Dress (1). Put a piece of butter, -^-Ib. of macaroni, an onion stuck with cloves, and a little salt into hot water;MAC MAC [ 108 ] boil them for three quarters of an hour, and then, if the macaroni is flexible, take it out, drain it well, and put it into another saucepan, with 2 ozs. of butter, 3 ozs. of grated Parmesan cheese, 4 ozs. of Gruyere cheese (also grated), and a little pepper and nutmeg. Toss up the whole together, adding two or three spoonsful of cream, and when done put it on a dish, and serve it very hot. MACARONI: To Dbess (2). Take i lb. of pipe macaroni, stew it in water with a little salt till tender, drain, and return it to the pan, adding thereto some cream, and let it stew till it is thick and rich; season with beaten mace and a little made mustard, mixed with two spoonsful of cream and the yolks of two eggs; give the whole a toss, line a dish with puff paste, pour in the macaroni, grate some Parmesan or Cheshire cheese over it, and bake it in a moderate oven. If to be done white omit the eggs, mustard, and cheese ; season with nutmeg or mace, and salt, and add a little more cream. MACARONI: To Dress (3). Wash and drain as much macaroni as you desire for dinner, and put it on to boil in tepid water. When it is soft enough to pass a fork through take it off, drain it through a cullender, wipe out the skillet, and return it immediately back again ; then add milk enough to half cover it, salt and red pepper to your taste, a piece of butter as large as a turkey's egg, and grated cheese as plentifully as you please. Stew the whole together five to ten minutes, stirring it all the time ; then throw it out into a dish, cover the top with grated bread crumbs, and set it iu the oven for a few minutes to brown on the top. If left long in the oven it will dry up, and become tough and unpalatable. MACARONI: To Serve (1). Simmer some macaroni in a little stock, with pounded mace and salt. When quite tender take it out of the liquor, lay it on a dish, grate over a good deal of cheese, and over that put finely grated bread. Warm some butter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen cullender all over the crumbs; then put the dish in a Putch oven to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in sepa- rate crumbs, and look light. MACARONI: To Serve (2). Wash it well, and simmer it in half milk and half of veal or mutton stock till the macaroni is tender; then take a spoonful of the liquor, and put to it the yolk of an egg, beaten up with a spoonful of cream. Just make it hot enough to thicken, but do not let it boil; pour it over the macaroni, then grate fine old cheese all over it, and add bits of butter. Brown it nicely with a salamander. MACARONI, COLD, if already dressed, may be warmed in any kind of broth, letting it simmer gentiy over a slow fire, with the yolks ot two eggs to thicken, after which it should be put into the oven in a mould, covered with crumbs of bread; or, if undressed, it may be made by leaving it overnight in broth, and then proceeding with it as above. MACARONI CORDIAL. Infuse for a fortnight in nine pints of brandy 1 lb. of bitter almonds, with a little Bohemian or Spanish angelica root, beaten together, shaking the vessel often. At the end of that time put the whole into a cucurbit, and distil it in a bain-marie. Five pints of spirit, thus impregnated with the flavour of the almonds and angelica, make a syrup with 5 lbs. of sugar, two quarts of eau de millefleurs, and three quarts of common distilled water. When these are mixed with the spirit add thirty drops of the essence of lemon, after which filter through blotting paper. MACARONI DRESSED SWEET. Boil 2 ozs. of macaroni in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and a good piece of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking; lay them on a custard dish, and pour a hot custard over them. Serve cold. MACARONI GRAIN BALLS FOR SOUP. Take some macaroni paste, and having rolled it out very thin, cut it into small squares, and chop these with a knife into grains of the proper size. The paste might also be rubbed through a grater; but in this case the dough must be very dry and stiff, other- wise the grains, instead of being short and rounded, will be left of too long a size. MACARONI AU GRATIN. Lay fried bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your macaroni in the usuftl way, and pour it into the dish; smooth it all over, strew bread crumbs on it, and then a pretty thick layer of grated Parmesan cheese; drop a little melted better on it, and cploor it with a salamander. MACARONI, MILANESE. Throw the macaroni into boiling water with some salt in it; lej; jt have plenty of room, and be well covered with water; boil it twenty-five minutes ; drain it in a cullender; then put it in a deep dish in alternate layers of maca- rorii and grated cheese; lay oj; the top slices bf fresh butter; pour over enough milk and cream to cover the whole, and place the dish in an oven where it can cook at the top and bottom. In fifteeri or twenty minutes it will be done, Serve it up immediately. Too much fire will make it diy. MACARONI WITHOUT MILK. Soak some macaroni in boiling water, and when done spread the bottom of a dish with grated cheese and butter; lay upon it soine of the macaroniMAC MAC [ 169 ] with a skimmer, then a layer of grated cheese and small pieces of butter, and so on; pour over, if you like, some essence of mushrooms, add some white pepper, and finish in a Dutch oven. MACARONI, NEAPOLITAN. Boil 2 lbs. of macaroni for half an hour in salt and water; then put it into a cullender to drain. Take f lb. of grated Parmesan cheese; put a layer of macaroni in a deep dish or tureen, and on it a layer of macaroni and cheese, and so on alter- nately till both are used up, making the Par- mesan the top ; pour over it some gravy a Vetouffade; melt ^ lb. of fresh butter, and put on the whole. Serve it very hot. MACARONI PATfi (1). Stew some maca- roni in butter and water, or broth ; strain it, cut it into pieces, and lay them at the bottom of the dish, adding ham balls, made of ham pounded in a mortar, and blended with butter ; then have ready any kind of game, boned and filleted, sweetbread cut into dice, and mush- rooms, all stewed in good rich sauce; place a layer upon the macaroni, then another layer of meat, and so on until the pie is filled ; add to it equal quantities of cream and gravy, cover it with a paste, and bake it; or omit the paste, and stew it before the fire in a Dutch oven. The macaroni may be mixed with grated Parmesan or rich old cheese. MACARONI PATfi (2). Swell 4 ozs. of pipe macai'oni in milk with a large onion ; put a layer at the bottom of a pie dish, with some bits of butter and scraped cheese sprinkled lightly over; cover the whole with a well- seasoned beefsteak cut small and thin, then some more macaroni, and then another layer of beefsteak; cover the whole with macaroni, pieces of butter, and grated cheese instead of crust. Bake in a slow oven. MACARONI, POTTAGE OF. Take Jib. of macaroni, break it in small pieces, which boil and drain; dress it in a consomme similar to that for mock turtle soup ; pour it into your tureen, and serve grated Parmesan cheese sepa- I'ately. MACARONI PUDDING. Boil i lb. of macaroni in a pint of rich unskimmed milk, with a handful of blanched bitter almonds or peach kernels, and two sticks of cinnamon broken into pieces. It must boil till the maca- I'oni is soft and dissolving; then remove the bitter almonds and the cinnamon; stir in while it is hot \ lb. of fresh butter, I lb. of powder sugar, and half a pint of rich cream ; mix all well, and beat it hard; then beat four eggs till very thick, and light, and stir them gradually into the mixture after it has cooled; add a grated nutmeg and a table-spoonful of brandy ; butter a deep dish, and put in the mixture; set it directly into the oven, and bake it. MACARONI SOUP (1). Boil 1 lb. of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till it is quite tender ; then take out half, and put it into another stewpau; to the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve ; then put together the two liquors, adding a pint or more of boiling hot cream, the macaroni that was first taken out, and ^ lb. of grated Parmesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into small pieces. MACARONI SOUP (2). Take i lb. of macaroni, and boil it till tender in a quart of veal stock ; then add 3 ozs. of grated Parmesan cheese, a little pounded mace, and five pints more of veal stock ; boil the whole together five minutes, and rub it through a tamis ; then boil it again for ten minutes, skim it, season it with salt and Cayenne pepper to the palate, and add liaison, with the yolks of four eggs and some cream. MACARONI, STEWED (I). Boil in a suf- ficient quantity of beef gravy, flavoured with ham, \ lb. of macaroni, and when about three parts done strain it off; add a gill of new milk, another of cream, \ lb. of grated Parmesan cheese, fresh butter, and Cayenne pepper, with salt; stir the whole over a fire for a few minutes, cover it slightly with more grated Parmesan, smooth the macaroni, brown the top with a salamander, and send it to table. MACARONI, STEWED (2). Put \ lb. of macaroni into a pint of milk, broth, or water, and boil it gently till tender; then add 1 oz. of grated cheese, with a small piece of butter and a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix the whole well, put it on the dish, strew over it 2 ozs. of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, and brown it lightly in a Dutch oven. All the cheese may be put in with the macaroni, and bread crumbs over the top. This article, with shreds of dressed ham or a currv sauce, is excellent. MACARONI, TIMBALE OF. Take some puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into narrow bands; twist each into a kind of cord, which place round the insides of buttered moulds, snail fashion ; fill each mould with macaroni, and cover the tops with grated bread and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of each); put the .timbales into a varm oven, and bake them three quarters of an hour ; then turn them on a dish and serve. MACAROON, BITTER (Ice Crkam). Take ^ lb. of bitter macaroons, pound them, and having prepared the cream, eggs, and sugar in the usual way, add the macaroon powder, boil, strain, and finish.MAC :\[ AC [ I'O ] MACAKOON BLANC-MANGER. Chip email 1 oz. of the Lest Russian isinglass, put it into a small saucepan, pour on it a gill of cold water, and boil it till the isinglass is entirely melted, stirring and skimming it well; then strain it, cover it, and set it away. Have ready a quart of cream or very rich milk boihng hot; crush ^ lb. or more of bitter- almond macaroons; mix them well with the boiling cream, cover the vessel, and let it stand (stirring it occasion- ally) till the macaroons are all dissolved. Next add the lukewarm isinglass, stir the whole very hard, and then transfer it to blanc-manger moulds that have been slightly rubbed on the inside with a little sweet oil; set them on ice or in a very cold place, and stir occasionally till the blanc-manger begins to congeal; then let it rest. When quite firm all through loosen it in the moulds by slipping a knife beneath the edge of the blanc-manger, warm a clean cloth, and lay it a minute over the top. This will render it easy to turn out; or you may loosen the blanc-manger by setting the mould in a pan of lukewarm water. Turn it out into a glass dish. Lay on the top of the blanc-manger a sufficient number of whole macaroons, handsomely arranged in a large star or in a circle, and jAace another circle on the dish round the bottom. MACAROON CUSTARD PUDDING. Fill the bottom of a dish with macaroons, soak them in white wine, and pour over them a custard made of twenty eggs, a pint and a half of cream, and a pint of new milk, with the addition of such sweetmeats as may be agreeable. The dish may be lined with puff paste, but care must be taken that it is not baked too much. MACAROON TART. Cement together as many sheets of wafer paper as will be sufficient to cut a pie the size of a dish ; spread over its surface sweet macarc^on paste about a quarter of an inch thick ; on this place a border of almond- shaped macaroons round the edge, then lay them in diagonal lines over the whole, and cross these again so as to form a trellis over the surface taking care to make the points touch neatly. When the whole is covered put it on a tin in a moderate oven, and bake it three quarters of an hour ; then take it out, and garnish the spaces between the macaroons with various preserved fruits. MACAROONS. Take 1 lb. of sweet almonds, blanched and nicely pounded; add a little rose water to prevent them from oiling, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar ; then whisk the whites of ten eggs to a'solid froth, add them to the above, and beat the whole together for some time. Have ready wafer paper on tin plates, and drop the mixture over it separately the size of a shilling, or smaller; sift over them a little sugar, and bake them. MACAROONS, CHOCOLATE. Blanch i lb. of shelled sweet almonds by scalding them with boiling water till the skin peels olf easily ; then throw them into a bowl of cold water, and let them stand awhile ; take them out, wipe them separately, and afterwards set them in a warm place to dr}^ thoroughly. Put them one at a time into a marble mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste, moistening them as you proceed with a few drops of rose water to pre- vent them from oiling. When 3'ou have pounded one or two take them out of the mortar with a tea-spoon, put them into a deep plate beside you, and continue removing the almonds to the plate till they are all done. Scrape down as fine as possible ^ lb. of the best chocolate, mix it thoroughly with the pounded almonds, and then set the plate in a cool place. Put the white of eight eggs into a shallow pan, and beat them to a stiff froth that will stand alone ; have ready 1|- lb. of finely powdered loaf sugar, and stir it hard into the beaten whites of eggs a spoonful at a time; then stir in gradually the mixture of almonds and chocolate, and beat up the whole very hard. Drop the mixture in equal portions upon thin white paper laid on square tin pans, smoothing them with a spoon into round cakes about the size of a half-dollar; dredge the top of each lightly with powder sugar, set them in a quick oven, and bake them a light brown. When done take them off the paper. MACAROONS, FILLED. Take some sweet macaroon paste, and lay the cakes on wafer paper quite round. When all are done have a round stick about an inch in diameter, and make a hollow in the centre of each. Bake them, as usual, till j'ellow and crisp ; then take them out, put in the hollows preserved chenies, raspberries, or some jelly, and, instead of detach- ing the macaroons from the paper, cut it closely round the edges. MACAROONS, LEMON. Take four large lemons, and rub off the yellow surface of the rind upon a lump of sugar; then powder the sugar, and add to it not quite 1 lb. of loaf sugar already powdered. Break four eggs into a shallow pan, and beat them till very thick and light; then add the juice of the lemons squeezed through a strainer, a tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg and cinnamon, and stir in the sugar a little at a time alternately with three large heaped table-spoonsful of sifted flour. A little more flom- may probably be fouud necessary. Mix the whole thoroughly, so as to form a soft paste. Have ready some shallow square baking pans, or sheets of iron, the bottoms covered with white paper laid smoothly in; moisten your hands with water, take up portions of the mixture, and roll them into balls about the size of a large plum, la}'ing tiiem as[ 171 ■] MAC MAC you proceed upon the paper, but rather more than an inch apart. Lastly, with the blade of a knife dipped in water smooth the surface of each, set them in a moderate oven, and bake them brown. Try one when you think they are done. If not sufficiently baked let them remain longer in the stove. As soon as they are cold loosen them from the paper by slipping under them a broad-bladed knife. Orange macaroons may be made in the same way, using the grated rind of two oranges only, and the juice of four. MACAROONS AU PORTUGAIS. Take 6 ozs. of potato fiour, 1 lb. of sweet almonds, IJlb. of sugar, and the whites of twelve eggs. Blanch and pound the almonds, beat the eggs to a snow, then mix them with the almonds, add afterwards the sugar and flour, beat the whole up well, put the preparation into small paper cases, and bake them like other biscuits. MACAROONS SPICED. Take lib. of sweet almonds £^nd 2 lbs. of sifted sugar; make your paste, as usual to which add a spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon; six or eight cloves, also pounded; some preserved lemon or orange-peel, of each a spoonful, chopped small; and the grated rind of two lemons. Mix the whole to- gether in the mortar, then lay your macaroons as usual, and bake them witheq ual care. MACAROONS, SPICED (Tart of). Join together as many sheets of wafer paper with water as you may judge necessary to cut it to the size of a dish ; lay it on a sheet of white paper, cover it with the spiced macaroon paste about an inch thick, put it in the oven, and bake it of a clear brown. In the meanwhile boil J lb. or 6 ozs. of sugar with some orange- flower water until, on dipping into and shaking it in the air, the sugar flies off in small bottle- shaped pieces. As soon as the tart is baked pour the sugar over it pretty thickly ; replace it in the oven to dry the sugar, which should resemble icing, and in a few minutes take it out and lay it in a large dish. MACAROONS, SWEET. Blanch 1 lb. of sweet almonds, throw them into cold water for a few minutes, then lay them in a napkin to dry, and leave them for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time pound them a handful at a time, adding occasionally some white of egg till the whole is reduced to a fine paste; then take 2 lbs. of the best lump sugar, pound and sift it, and put it to the almonds, with the grated rinds of two lemons; beat these ingre- dients together in a mortar, adding, one at a time, as many eggs as you find necessary to moisten the paste, which should be thin, but not too much so, as in that case it would run. Your paste being ready, take out a little in a spoon, and lay the macaroons on sheets of white paper, either roimd or oval as you please; lay them at least an inch apart, because they spread in baking, and if put nearer would touch. The whole of your paste being used, place the sheets on tins in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. This kind of cake requires great care and attention; it will be well, therefore, to take notice of the following rules : — 1. To mind that the almonds are perfectly dry before you begin to pound them. 2. Take great care that not a particle of the yolk is mixed with the white of egg, which would entirely spoil the colour of the macaroons, and prevent their rising in the oven. To avoid this open each separately, and if per- fectly fresh divide the yolk and white with great care. 3. The oven must not be more than moderately heated, nothing being more liable to burn than almonds and sugar by the least negli- gence in this respect: the surface will be burned, whilst the inside would remain unbaked. The best method to obviate any mischief of this sort is by putting in the oven two or three macaroons to try it; leave them in the usual time, and if, when you take them out, they are of a clear yellow colour, the oven is properly heated, and the whole of the macaroons may be then put in. MACASSAR OIL. Put two pints of sweet oil in a pan, with 1 oz. of alkanet root, cut and bruised, in a linen bag, and add two wine- glasses of good spirits of wine (rum, brandy, gin, or whiskey will do) Give the whole a good heat, but do not let it boil, and keep it on the fire till it takes a fine red colour; then pour it out of the pan into the vessel to cool, and when cold add 1 oz. of essence of bergamot and two tea-spoonsful of essence of cinnamon. . Filter the whole through a funnel lined with blotting paper, and it is ready to be bottled. The bottles and corks must be perfectly dry. MACE, so well known as a spice, is a mem- brane which incloses the nutmeg, the produce of a tree called Myristica moschata. When fresh it is of a blood-red colour, but becomes brown on drying. This is the most aromatic part of the fruit, and contains fixed and essential oils ; it softens in the mouth, but does not melt; its taste is warm, aromatic, fragrant, and similar to a mixture of cinnamon and cloves, but more intense. Mace consists of an essential oil in small quantity; a fragrant, red, fixed oil, very soluble in alcohol and ether; a peculiar gummy principle, in the proportion of about one-third, analogous to amidine and gum, and a small por- tion of ligneous fibre. A decoction of mace contains a portion of both these oils in suspen- sion in the gummy solution. Ether is the best solvent for procuring all the oily matters. The volatile oil of mace, obtained by distillation, is a yellow liquid, lighter than water, of the fra-MAC [ ] MAC grance and flavour of mace ; but traces of aii oil heavier can also be obtained by distillation. The fixed oil of mace is obtained by expression; it is of a buttery consistence, brown colour, and highly fragrant. It is very stimulant, and much employed in India as a liniment and em- brocation in rheumatism. The aromatic property of nutmeg and mace is familiar to every one; but it may not be generally known that they also possess consider- able narcotic powers. In the quantity of two drachms nutmeg has been known to produce stupor and delirium, accompanied with oppres- sion of the chest, intense thirst, and headache ; and dangerous, if not fatal consequences are said to have followed its free use in India. Both nutmeg, mace, and their respective oils, ad- ministei'ed in moderation, are stimulant, sto- machic, and tonic. The unripe fruit is frequently preseiTed in sugar in the East, and before doing 80 it is necessary to deprive it of its acrid pro- perties by soaking it in spirits. MACfiDOINE. Take as many carrots and turnips as you think necessary, cut them into pieces, blanch and boil them in a little con- somme, and reduce them to a jelly. Take the following vegetables :—Young peas and beans, French beans cut into lozenges, cauliflowers, artichoke bottoms, cucumbers, asparagus heads, small onions, and white mushrooms ; blanch all th«se separately, and a quarter of an hour before dinner make them quite hot, and then drain them on a cloth. In the meantime reduce some AUemande, add to it the jelly of roots, keep them boiling, put in the roots and vege- tables, with a little sugar and fresh butter, and stir them together until the sauce adheres to the vegetables. The macedoine is generally used to garnish the removes of soups. MACEDOINE AU BECHAMEL. Pre- pare carrots, turnips, small onions, peas, asparagus, bread, French beans, artichoke bottoms, cauliflowers, &c., in the same manner as the mac6doine. When they are all done in their appropriate seasoping drain them very dry, put them into a saucepan, pour on them a red bechamel, and shake them all up together, that the sauce may be thoroughly incorporated with vegetables. Keep it hot, but do not let it boil. MACEDOINE OF FRUIT. The macedoine is an oraamental dish composed of transparent jelly, with various fruits inclosed in it. For this purpose it should be done as follows:—Have a donie-shaped mould six inches and a half in diameter, and four in height, the sides fluted ; the smaller mould must be of a similar form, but only four inches and a half in diameter, and two and three quarters high ; to this latter have four handles bent at the end, to hang it exactly in the centre of the larger mould. Prepare a transparent strawberry jelly, place the larger mould as straight as possible in pounded ice, hang the small one in it, and pour the jelly into the former. Whilst it is congealing pick about twenty fine white strawberries, the same number of red ones, the same of white raspberries, a bunch of red, and the same of white currants; wash all these well, but touch them as little as possible, that they may not lose their freshness. When the jelly is per- fectly set pour some hot water into the small mould, which will enable you to remove it with ease; raise it with great care, so that the space may be found without the slightest flaw ; place on the jelly, in the centre of this space, two bunches of white currants; sun-ound these with a ring of white strawberries, and the latter with a crown or ring of white raspberries; pour over very carefully two or three spoonsful of the jelly, and when that is congealed proceed in the same way with the red currants, straw- berries, and raspben'ies, then the jelly, and so on alternately until all the fruit is used. Fill the mould with jelly, and as soon as the whole is congealed dip your mould in a large saucepan of hot water, and then turn it into a dish in- stantly. The macedoine may be garnished in this manner with any kind of fruit you think proper. It may also be filled with two jellies as follows : white lemon jelly in the large mould, and finished with the same jelly, tinged with either rose colour or yellow. Indeed, the moulds may be varied in any way your fancy may dictate. MACKEREL: To Bake. Open them, cut off the heads, take out the roes, clean them well, and rub them on the inside with some pepper and salt; then replace the roes, and season the fish with pounded allspice, black pepper, and salt; lay them in a pan, covered with equal quan- tities of ^vinegar and water; tie over them strong white paper doubled, and bake them for an hour in a slow oven. They may be kept for a fortnight. MACKEREL: To Boil. Wash them clean, and put them into cold water with a handful of salt, and let them simmer rather than boil. Mackerel of moderate size will be done in about fifteen minutes, but it is easy to ascertain when they are boiled sufiBciently by the projection of the eye and the splitting of the tail. As the roe is seldom done enough in the ordinary way it will be advisable to make a slit in that direc- tion of the belly. Garnish with minced fennel. MACKEREL: To Beoil. Clean the fish, wipe it on a dry cloth, and having cut a slit down the back, lay it on the gridu-on over a slow fire, taking care to turn it when one side is done. Season it with pepper and salt, and putMAC MAC [ 173 ] some fresh butter in the dish, as well as on the outside. MACKEREL: To Carve. See Fish: To Cabve. MACKEREL: To Choose. The season for this fish is from April to July. When fresh its vaiiegated colours are bright and beautiful, the gills are red, and the eyes lively. MACKEREL: To Dress in Various Ways. This fish is usually consumed by the poorer classes, boiled with fennel sauce—a mode . of dressing very good when the fish is to be soused or pickled, but which destroys much of its nourishing properties, and renders it diy and insipid. When a number of mackerel are obtained very cheap they may be preserved several days, either by frying them on both sides until they are half done, or else by par- boiling them. The former mode is the least objectionable, because, as we said before, the latter deteriorates their flavour. To par- boil them they should be put into boiling water containing a little salt and vinegar, and should remain over the fire, from the time they are put in, during five minutes. The cold mackerel may be dressed in any of the ways directed for Soles, Cold ; but there are many other cheap and profitable modes of cooking them raw. Some of these we shall designate. Clean the mackerel, but do not split them down nor remove the head. Make a stuSing thus. For two mackerel crumb a sufiicient quan- tity of bread that, with the other ingredients, there shall be enough to fill the fish ; shred small 2 ozs. of suet and the scalded liver of the fish ; mix these with the bread crumbs, together with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a bit of chopped lemon, and pepper and salt to your taste; bind all this, and work it into a paste with clarified fat or butter; fill with it the inside and head of the mackerel; lay these in a baking dish, with a cupful of broth containing a little anchovy liquor, a spoonful of vinegar, and a bit of butter. Another Mode. Score and season the mackerel without splitting them, and broil them on a clear fire ; then pour over them the fol- lowing sharp sauce :—Boil gently in half a pint of vinegar and water in equal parts a parsley root, a bay leaf, and two onions. When the onions are melted strain the liquor, season it, and set it over the fire ; add to it a spoonful of catsup; as it boils thicken it with butter rolled in flour, and before you take it up add a spoonful of capers or chopped gherkin, or any other pickle. Another Mode. Stuff the mackerel as for baking ; lay them side by side in the saucepan, with a bit of butter, a couple of table-spoonsful of cold water, and one of catsup ; season them well with pepper and salt, cover the sauce- pan, set it on the hob, and let the fish stew very gently in their own juice. They may be eaten with onion sauce made thus :—Chop two or three onions very small, pour them into boil- ing water with a few peppercorns, and let them boil to pap ; throw away the water, and drain the onions; then put them in an earthenware mug, with a little milk, and salt to your taste. Set them either on the hob or before the fire, cover them well, and let them simmer gently until thev are incorporated with the milk. MACKEREL : To Dry. They must be very fresh. Gut and wash them very clean, cut off their heads, split them down the back, and lay them quite flat; then hang them by the tails to drain. They should be hung in a very cool place. Strew some salt at the bottom of a pan, sprinkle the fish thoroughly with salt, lay them in a pan belly to belly, and back to back, and let them lie in the salt twelve or fourteen hours; then wash the salt off clean, and hang them up to drain for half an hour; pepper the insides a little, and lay them to dry on stones laid aslant towards the sun. Take care never to let them be out when the sun is not on them, nor till the dews are dispersed, as the stones they are laid upon should be warm and dry. They will be perfectly cured in a week. Hang them up by their tails, putting the insides together, in a diy place, but not in any smoke. They should be either fried in boiling oil, or broiled on or before a very clear fire, and basted with oil on a feather. No sauce will be required; for if they are good they will be very moist and mellow. If they should be dry you may serve with a little melted butter and parsley, or crimped parsley. MACKEREL: To Pot. Clean, season, and bake them in a pan, with plenty of spice, bay leaves, and butter. When cold put them into a pot, and cover them with butter. MACKEREL WITH BLACK BUTTER. The mackerel for this dish should be dressed according to the directions for Mackerel, Grilled. Dish them, then put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, and when it is quite hot fry some parsley in it, and pour it over the fish; heat up some vinegar, and pour that over also. MACKEREL EN CAILLES. Cut two or three mackerel each into three pieces, give them a few turns over the fire in butter, with parsley, shallots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; then wrap each piece in a vine leaf, with a piece of bacon and some of the seasoning; lay them on a baking dish, put the remainder of the seasoning over, and set them in the oven. When nearly done take them out, cover them[ 174 ] MAC MAC witb bread crumbs, and replace the disli to finish the baking. Serve with wine sauce. MACKEREL, COLLARED. Clean the fish, slit them down the belly, cut off the heads, take out the bones, and lay each on its back. Prepare a seasoning of mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a handful of shred parsley; strew this mixture over the fish, roll them tightly, and tie them in separate cloths; let them boil gently twenty minutes in vinegar, salt, and water; then take them out, put them into a pan, and pour the sauce over them, or the cloth will stick to the fish. The next day remove the wrappers, add some vinegar to the pickle, and when you send the mackerel to table garnish with fennel and parsley, and put some of the liquor in the dish. MACKEREL EN COMPOTE. Prepare the mackerel, cut off the tails, and put them into a small saucepan well buttered, with any common fish you may have, and anchovy and white wine; braise them in this, and when done servo them with their own liquor. MACKEREL, ENTREE OF. Split the mackerel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and lay a sprig of fennel in them. Broil them gently, and when ready to serve take out the fennel, and put in its place a mixture made with fresh butter, chopped parsley, green onions, pepper, and salt. Add plenty of lemon juice. MACKEREL, FILLETS OF (Saote). Cut the fillets the whole length of the fish, take off the skin, trim and put them into a tossing-pan, with salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions shred small; pour a little melted butter over, and set them on the fire, moving the pieces about lest they should adhere to the pan; turn them very carefully, and do the other side. Take a good bit of butter, a ladleful of veloute, the yolks of three eggs, the juice of two lemons, salt, whole pepper, and a ravigotte chopped small; stir over the fire, but without boiling, till of the right consist- ence, and then pour it over the fillets. MACKEREL A LA FLAMANDE. Choose three good-sized and very fresh mackerel, take out the entrails through the gills, and tie up the head ; cut off the end of the tail, but do not open the back. Work up some shallots, parsley, and scallions, chopped very small, with a piece of butter ; add salt, pepper, and lemon juice ; stuff the body of the fish, and roll each in a sheet of buttered paper; tie the ends tightly, rub the paper with oil, and broil them for three quarters of an hour over a very clear fire. When done take them out of the paper, dish, and pour over them the butter contained in the cas6s, and lemon juice. MACKEREL EN FRICANDEAU. Take the skin from ono side of the mackerel, lard and put the fish into a braising-pan, with a few slices of veal, ham, and equal quantities of broth and white wine. Let the veal be nearly done when you put in the mackerel. Set the pan on a slow fire, and in a few minutes add some mushrooms and a bunch of sweet herbs. When the fish are sufficiently done take them out; strain and reduce the sauce to a glaze, with which do the larded side; put a little butter to the remainder, and serve it under the fish. MACKEREL, FRIED. Cut the mackerel each into eight pieces, whicli soak for half an hour in lemon juice, pepper, and salt; wipe them perfectly dry, dip each piece in wine batter, and fry them dry. Serve with fried parsley. MACKEREL (German Wat). Split them down the back, and season them with pepper and salt; broil them, and serve with the fol- lowing sauce:—Pick and wash some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme, and green onions, but use only a small quantity of each; boil them till tender in a little veal stock, then chop them up, and add to them some fresh butter, the liquor they were boiled in, some grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a little Cayenne pepper, and salt. Let it boil, thicken it with flour, and serve in a sauce-boat. MACKEREL, GLAZED. Clean and dry the fish as usual, lard them with streaked bacon, and put them into a saucepan, with two slices of veal and sweet herbs; pour over them some court bouillon, and stew them. When done take them out, reduce the liquor, and glaze your fish with it. MACKEREL, GRILLED. Clean, empty, and wipe the fish as usual; split them up the back, and rub them with a little butter; mix some bread crumbs and shred parsley, cover the mackerel with this, and broil them. When ol a nice colour serve them with the following sauce:—fut some shred parsley, a small quantity of oil, salt, pepper, and lemon juice into melted butter, stir them up together, and make the sauce quite hot. MACKEREL AU MAITRE D'HOTEL. Three mackerel are quite sufficient for this dish. Take out the entrails, and having wiped the fish with a wet cloth, split them open along the back from head to tail; lay them in a deep dish, with salt, whole pepper, scallions, and parsley, and pour a sufficient quantity of oil on them to soak them ■well. Half an hour before dinner place them on a gridiron over a gentle fire, and broil them on both sides ; put a piece of butter into a sauce- pan, with a dessert-spoonful of flour, parsley and scallions shred small, pepper, and salt; mix them well, and then add a glass of water and the juice of a lemon; set this over the fire.MAC MAD [ 175 ] stiiTing till it boils, when it may be poured over MACKEREL, PICKLED. Clean and divide them, and cut each side into three; or, leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel take nearly 1 oz. of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all of the finest powder; mix the whole together, make holes in each bit of fish, and put the seasoning into them ; rub each piece of fish with some of the seasoning, and then fry them brown in oil; let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone jar, and cover with vinegar. If you intend to keep them for some time pour oil on the top of the jars. In this manner they may be pre- served for months. MACKEREL, ROASTED. Soak three mackerel in a marinade of oil, with scallions, parsley, and shallots, all chopped. Season with salt and pepper. When they have lain in this for half an hour fasten the mackerel to a spit, and roast them before a small fire, basting with melted butter. Just before they are done strew bread crumbs over them; finish, and serve them with any fish sauce vou please. MACKEREL ROE SAUCE. Boil the soft roes of mackerel, and bruise them with the yolk of an egg; then beat them up with a very little pepper and salt, and some fennel and parsley, boiled, chopped finely, and mixed with about half a pint of thinly melted butter. To this you may add mushreom catsup, walnut pickle, or soy. MACKEREL, SMOKED. Gut, wipe, and salt the mackerel for twelve hours; wipe and hang them in any convenient place for smoking. Herrings are salted in the same way. MACKEREL, SOFT ROES OF (1). Take the soft roes from half a dozen broiled mackerel, and put them into paper cases, with shred parsley, raspings, butter, salt, and pepper. Bake them, and when done serve them with melon juice. MACKEREL, SOFT ROES OF (2). Take the soft roes from four mackerel, put them into a pan sufficient with clarified butter to cover them, and then set the pan in an oven. When done take them out, drain, and cut them into dice, which put into petits pates ; keep them hot, and just before they are sent to table put into each some of the following sauce :—Reduce two spoonsful of veloute and one of consomme, then add a little butter and thick cream, season with pepper and salt, and pour it in quite hot. MACKEREL, SOUSED. Thoroughly wash and clean them, take out the roes, and boil them in salt and water. When they are done take them out, lay them in a deep dish, pour away half the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the rest of the liquor as much vinegar as will cover tiiem, with two or three Day leaves. They should lie two or three days before they are eaten. MADDER, or Weld, is obtained from the roots of Ruhia tinctorimi, or dyers' madder. It is employed in considerable quantities for dye- ing a fine red colour, and likewise as a first tint for several other shades. If wool be previously boiled in a solution of alum and tartar, and then immersed in a hot decoction of tartar only with this drug, it will acquire a very durable, though not beautiful red tinge. The root of the common or wild madder is an excellent detergent and aperient, on which account it has been highly recommended in visceral obstructions, particularly of the uterus ; in coagulations of the blood, induced either by falls or bruises ; in the beginning of dropsical complaints; and especially in the rickets. It may be given pulverised, in doses from five to fifteen grains to children, and from half to a whole drachm three or four times a day to adults. When taken internally it possesses the re- markable property of tinging the ui'ine with a deep red colour, and produces similar effects on the bones of animals if eaten among other food. MADE DISHES. Be careful to trim off all the sldn, gristle, &c., that will not be eaten, and shape handsomely and of even thickness the various articles which compose your made dishes. This is sadly neglected by common cooks. Only stew them till they are just tender, and do not stew them to rags ; therefore what you prepare the day before it is to be eaten do not dress quite enough the first day. We have given receipts for the most easy and simple way to make Hashes, &c. Those who are well skilled in culinary arts can dress up things in this way so as to be as agreeable as they were the first time they were cooked. MADEIRA. Madeira wine is rich and luscious, and has a pungent, aromatic, nutty, or bitter sweet flavour; and according to Brande and Prout, the true kinds of it contain 22-27 per cent, of alcohol; West Indian kinds, 21'2 per cent.; and the Sercial kinds, 20'32 per cent. Since the reduction in the duty of French and Spanish wines its consumption in this country has been much decreased, being superseded by sherry. The best Madeira wine is produced on those estates which lie on the south side of the island of that name ; and, although this wine is naturally of a strong full body, considerable quantities of brandy are always added, in order to enable it to sustain the high temperature to which it is subjected on voyages to India, large quantities being placed on board ships trading to the East and to China for the purpose of ripening. The process has been tried artificiallyMA D [ 176 J MAD by placing tlie wine in a heated atmospbere or a hothouse ; but the effect is not equal to a voyage, probably on account of the ship's motion. Where good samples are selected, and the wine seasoned, it proves of excellent quality, most of the adventitious spirit being evaporated ; and it will keep for any length of time, improving by age. Indeed, Madeira wine is not considered to have arrived at maturity until it has been ten years in the wood, and twice that time mellowing in bottle. The quantity of wine made at Madeira has never exceeded 20,000 pipes, and a poi'tioii goes to America and the West Indies. Previously to the reduction of duties 300,000 gallons were entered for home consumption in England, and adulteration was practised to a greater extent upon this wine than upon sherry at present. TenerifFe wine resembles Madeira, and, according to Brande, contains 19-79 per cent, of alcohol. MADELAINES. Take 9 ozs. of powder sugar, 8 ozs. of flour, the yolks of four and six whole eggs, two spoonsful of brandy, and a grain of salt; put these into a saucepan, stirring continually until the paste thickens, after which stir only one minute. Clarify 10 ozs. of good fresh butter, with which grease about thirty-two madelaine moulds; pour the remainder of the butter into your preparation, set it on a gentle stove, stir it till it begins to become liquid, take it off before it has time to get too hot, put a little of this into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven. , MADELAINES EN SURPRISE. Make your madelaines in the usual way. When cold cut a thin slice from the bottom, and take out nearly all the inside ; pound 4 ozs. of blanched filberts, mix them with eight spoonsful of apricot mar- malade, which mixture put into the madelaines, replace the slice taken from the bottom, and serve them. MADELENES, or Maudlin Cakes. To a quarter of a peck of flour well dried at the fire add 2 lbs. of mutton suet, tried and strained off clear, and when it is a little cool mix it well with the flour, some salt, and a very little allspice beaten fine. Take half a pint of good yeast, and put in half a pint of water; stir them well together, strain it, and mix up your flour into a paste of moderate stiffness. You must add as much cold water as will make paste of a right order. Make it into cakes about the thickness and size of an oat cake; have ready some cur- rants washed clean and picked, and strew some just in the middle of your cakes between your dough, so that none pan be seen till the cake is broken. You may leave the currants out if you choose. MADNESS, or Mania. {See Melancholy, Monomania, and Idiotcy.) In many instances, though it is far from being general, pain m the head and throbbing of its arteries precede an attack of insanity ; and sometimes giddiness is complained of as a precursory symptom. The appearance of the eye is, however, the circum- stance most readily to be noticed, and the change in it from a state of health even precedes incoherence of language. Recovered patients have described a peculiar sensation connected with this appearance, as though the eye flashed fire from being struck smartly with an open hand, and this increased in proportion as the ideas became more and more confused. There is a peculiar muscular action of these organs, a protrusion of the eyes, a wandering motion in eveiy possible direction, and in a manner pecu- liarly tiresome to the beholder. During a paroxysm they appear as if stiffly and firmly pushed forward, and the pupils are contracted; and yet, with all these appearances of excite- ment, it has rather a dull than a fierce character. The muscles of the face also partake in the change, and the rapidity of the alterations they undergo depends on the succession of ideas which pass with such velocity throixgh the mind of the sufierer. As the attack advances the individual be- comes uneasy, is unable to confine his attention, walks with a quick and hurried step, and while doing so suddenly stops. Men of the most regular and established habits will suddenly become active, jealous, and restless; they abandon their business, and enter into the most extravagant undertakings; while, on the other hand, some who are naturally of a lively dispo- sition become indolent and indifferent, fancy themselves sick, or have a presentiment of severe disease. Persons subject to habitual in- disposition, which has disappeared suddenly, fancy themselves in high health, and are greatly elated. A very vigorous action of body and mind soon takes place, and particularly the exertion of great muscular strength. And here it is impossible to present anything like a description that shall be generally applicable. The language is totally different, both in tone and manner, from the usual habits of the maniac. He becomes angry without any as- signable cause—attempts to perform feats of strength or efforts of agility which shall strike the beholder with astonishment at his great powers. Many talk incessantly, sometimes in the most boisterous manner; then suddenly lowering their tone, speak softly and whisper. The subjects vary equally. They are never confined long to one point, but voluble and inco- herent, running rapidly from one thing to another totally disconnected with it. The same phrase is sometimes repeated for a length of time, or conversation is maintained with themselves, asMAD MAD r 1 with a third person, with all the variatiotis of violent and ridiculous gestures. In females there is frequently a complication, as it were, of h3'steria with general madness; and laughing or weeping is a common attendant. The food necessary for the sustenance of life is often neglected, and fasting is endured for a length of time without any apparent inconve- nience ; yet with some there is an unusual and indiscriminate voraciousness, and they swallow everything that may come in their way. The stomach and bowels are unusually torpid, costiveness prevails, and the stools are white, small, and hard. Diarrhoea rarely occurs ex- cept towards the termination of the disease. The urine is scanty in quantity, and, for the most part, of a high colour. The pulse is very various, sometimes full and laboured, and sometimes natural ; but little dependence can be placed on it as an indication. The tongue is usually moist, and sometimes has a whitish appearance ; and there is often a pre- ternatural secretion of saliva and mucus in the mouth and throat, which is of a viscid nature, and discharged with difficulty by spitting. Ac- cording to Esquirol maniacs are frequently tor- mented with great thirst. There is also gene- rally a stoppage of the secretion of mucus in the nose. Dr. Rush mentions that Dr. Moore, at his request, examined the maniacs in the Penn- sylvania Hospital with reference to this symp- tom, and found it present in two-thirds of them. Where this secretion was not suspended ho found the mucus of the nose dry and hard. Maniacs are generally deemed capable of enduring high degrees of heat or cold without suffering. This, however, is incorrect, if we are to credit the united testimony of Haslam and Esquirol. During a paroxysm, indeed, they are insensible to either, and particularly to cold; but they suffer like the sane. Mortifica- tion of the feet is a common occurrence, and some, indeed, die from the effects of a low tem- perature during the winter if not properly secured. It is suggested by Esquirol that the great intei'nal heat which some experience may explain their voluntary exposure. The senses are often perverted, constituting what we commonly call illusions. The ear more particularly suffers. Haslam observes that he scarcely recollects a lunatic becoming blind, but numbers deaf; and those who are not deaf are troubled with difficulty of hearing and ringing in the ears. It is from the disorder of this organ, and which is referable to the original diseased action of the functions of the brain, that many maniacs derive the delusion under which they labour. The commission which they suppose themselves to receive from some superior being is given by the ear ; they imagine VOL. II. it constantly repeated. They are thu=5, they imagine, urged to its performance, and in too many cases murder or self-destruction is the unhappy result. " In consequence of some affection of the ear, the insane sometimes insist that malicious agents contrive to blow streams of infected air into this organ. Others have conceived, by means of what they term hearken- ing wires and whiz-pipes, that various obscenities and blasphemies are forced into their minds; and it is not unusual for those who are in a despond- ing condition to assert that they distinctly hear the devil tempting them to self-destruction." The eye is also diseased. Indeed, as Esquirol remarks, it is as much so as any other sense, since it is the principal organ of communication with external objects. It is a common circumstance to mistake various substances or persons. Their appearance to the maniac is various—sometimes fiery and bright; and in these instances the eye itself is sparkling and protruded. To the changes thus produced in this organ may be ascribed the passion that some have for collect- ing sparkling objects, as pebbles, glass, &c. Relief has sometimes been experienced by the temporary use of a bandage over the eyes. The unnatural excitement is thus mitigated. On the other hand, there are many cases in which the eye is sunken and dull, and external objects produce but little impression. The smell does not escape perversion, though this is by no means so common as with the other senses. A lady twenty-seven years of age, in the last stage of consumption, perceived in her room the odour of charcoal. She immediately conceived that there was a design against her life. She left her lodgings, but the fumes of charcoal incessantly pursued her till her death. This depraved state often leads to an abhorrence of food and a danger of starvation. The derangement of the taste, however, is the principal agent in this, originating most com- monly in an unsettled state of the stomach, and accompanied with a furred tongue and a parched mouth. The touch in many instances loses its peculiar power of correcting the other senses. The skin is occasionally hot and dry, or ex-> tremely sensitive ; and even if these conditions be wanting, the sense is so far perverted that the insane frequently deceive themselves in respect to the size, form, and weight of things around them, and the greater number become unhandy in all mechanical occupations, music, writing, &c. This, however, is far from being universal, as some speak and write with ease, and are remarkable for striking expressions, deep thoughts, and ingenious associations. Wakefulness is another symptom, which sometimes precedes all others, and is coeval HMAD [ 178 ] MAG ^vitli pain or uneasiness of the head, or of some other diseased organ; and its degree is deter- mined by the age, habits, situation, and original vigorous or feeble constitution of the patient. From its being always followed in the morning by the peculiar appearance of tlie eye already described, it may sometimes lead to proper sus- picion, as well as attention to the diseased per- son. This watchfulness is attended with an irresistible impulse to rise early, go abroad, and ramble about; or, if remaining in the house, to be incessantly employed in arranging and re- arranging articles of furniture, dress, books, or papers; and by thus placing, displacing, and confounding everything, their ideas become more confused, and they soon give rise to actions ■wild and outrageous. The memoiy is early affected in maniacs. After a time it seems to be almost destroyed. Some, according to Haslam, lose in a wonderful degree their former coiTectness of orthography. Pusillanimity is also a remarkable trait in the character of the insane. Though occasionally boisterous and fierce, yet they are readily over- come by a person of decision. Their leading characteristics are timidity, distrustfulness, sus- picion, never contented with their present con- dition, but always desirous of some change. It is this discontent of mind that detaches them from their parents and friends, and causes them to hate most those whom they previously cherished with the fondest affection. The ex- ceptions to this are few, and even if they retain the semblance of affection, still they will bestow no confidence on the objects of it, nor pay any respect to their solicitations or advice. This alienation from friends is, therefore, one of the most constant and pathognomonic traits of the malady; and frequently the first favourable symptom is a diminution of the constant dis- content. The duration of a paroxysm is very various. It continues for days, weeks, months, and even years, and ends in death, a state of fatuity, a remission, or a perfect and durable recovery. Dr. Rush states that in one case which came imder his notice the disease continued from June, 1810, until April, 1811, with scarcely any abatement in the excitement of the body and mind, notwithstanding the patient was con- stantly under the operation of depleting reme- dies. He also witnessed another instance in ■which the same remedies were insufficient to produce an interruption for five minutes of speech or vociferations, except during a few short intervals of sleep, for five months. Others, again, have paroxysms, with chronic but moderate derangement in their intervals; and in these intervals the recovery is sometimes so great as to indicate insanity on a particular subject only; but a reference to this will readily excite a return of general madness. If the paroxysm ceases suddenly we have reason to di"ead the return of another. On its cessation the patient seems waked from a dream; he is exhausted, speaks or moves but little, and seeks solitude; and if there is an approach to reason he states what he has seen, heard, or felt, his motives, and his determina- tions.—[Beck's Medical Jurisprudence.) MADNESS, CANINE. See Htdeophobta. MAGGOTS in meat are the larvae of the blue- bottle or flesh fly. To check their occurrence meat should be kept in a wire safe, and rubbed over with powdered ginger. See Puteefaction. MAGNESIA is the name usually applied to this white earth when used in medicine. But it occurs in the chemist's shop combined with carbonic acid, or calcined, which means that the carbonic acid has been driven away from the magnesia by exposing it for a long time to an intense heat. Magnesia should not be taken by persons liable to piles, as it exasperates the symptoms, but it is commonly used to remove heartburn. See Acidity of the Stomach. Magnesia is of considerable service for pre- venting or removing many disorders of children, especially of such as are troubled vnth a redun- dance of acid in the first passages, for which purpose it is preferable to the calcareous ab- sorbents. But even magnesia is frequently misapplied, and ought never, unless it be cal- cined, to be given to infants disposed to flatu- lency, or where no symptoms of acidity can be discovered, as it is otherwise apt to lodge in the bowels, and produce obstinate costiveness, being in itself an inactive earth unless com- bined with acids. Hence it is often and very properly conjoined with rhubarb, so that chil- dren above one year old may take from five to ten grains of the former, and from one to two grains of the latter; while adults generally require one or two scruples of magnesia, and from five to ten grains of rhubarb for a mode- MAGNESIA, FLUID. To a boiling solu- tion of 16ozs. of sulphate of magnesia in six pints of water, add a solution of 19 ozs. of crystallised carbonate of soda in the same quantity of water; boil the mixture till gas ceases to escape, stirring constantly; then set it aside to settle, pour off the liquid, and wash the precipitate on a cotton or linen cloth with wai-m water till the latter passes tasteless. Mix the precipitate, without diying it, with a gallon of water, and force carbonic acid gas into it under strong pressure till a complete solution is effected. MAGNESIA, MOXON'S EFFERVES- CENT, Mix together carbonate of magnesia,MAG MAI [ 179 ] 1 oz.; Epsom salts, 2 ozs.; bi-carbonate of soda, 2ozs.; tartrate of potasb and soda, 3ozs.; tartaric acid, 2 ozs. Tbey must have been put separately upon plates into a hot oven, and thus reduced to white povpder before being mixed. Keep the mixture in a stoppered glass bottle. Dose, from a tea-spoonful to two dessert-spoonsful put into a tumbler half filled with water, stirred, and drunk whilst effervescing. MAGNONAISE. Take chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, of each a handful, and a little ciboulette, and having picked and washed them, scald them for five or six minutes in boiling water with a little salt in it; then let them cool, drain and squeeze out all the water, and pound them well, moistening with a spoonful of magnonaise; strain this through a silk sieve, and mix it with a magnonaise prepared as above. If it be not sufficiently green add a small quantity of essence of spinach. MAGNONAISE, WHITE. Put into a pan the yolks of two eggs, a good pinch of salt, and a quarter of a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar; take a wooden spoon, stir them up quickly, and when beginning to thicken add half a dessert-spoonful of the best olive oil. As the sauce continues to thicken put in a few drops of vinegar, then oil, and so on, still rapidly stirring and rubbing the spoon against the sides of the pan. In proportion as the sauce gains consistence increase by degrees the quantity of oil and vinegar, and add a little aspic jelly. Do not cease stirring until you have thus amal- gamated two glasses of oil, half a glass of aspic jelly, and as much vinegar as you find necessary to render the sauce palatable. When done it should be of the consistence of a thick cream, and equally smooth. Keep it in a cool place till wanted for use. MAHOGANY is the wood of the tree called by botanists Swietenia mahogoni. That which is produced in the islands of Cuba and Hayti is called " Spanish mahogany," and is remarkable for its close grain and beautiful veining, mottles, and curls ; and it is this which is so highly esteemed for cabinet work. The prices which are sometimes obtained for a log of mahogany are truly marvellous. Some years ago Messrs. Broadwood, the celebrated pianoforte manufac- turers in London, gave £3000 for three logs, the produce of one tree, each log being about fifteen feet long and thirty-eight inches wide. This description of wood is too expensive to use in an ordinary way, and is therefore cut into veneers, eight to the inch, and is used for the most valuable descriptions of cabinet work. The common kinds of mahogany are now considerably employed in ship-building. For this purpose they have, from an early period, been much used by the Spaniards, who generally employ that which grows in the Bahama Islands. It is better adapted for this purpose than most woods yet known, being very durable, resisting gun shots, and burying the shot without splin« tering ; nor is the worm so apt to eat this wood as that of the oak. It also affords very strong timber for building purposes, and answers well in beams, joists, plank boards, and shingles, for which purpose it was formerly frequently used in Jamaica. The first account we have of the mahogany tree is, that it was employed to repair some of Sir Walter Raleigh's ships at Trinidad in 1597; but there is no notice of its having been intro- duced to this country before the end of the seven- teenth or beginning of the eighteenth century, when it was brought over by a Captain Gibbons as ballast from the West Indies. His brother, Dr. Gibbons, was then erecting a house in King Street, Covent Garden, and gave it to the work- men to make boards, but being hard they rejected it. The doctor then gave a portion to a cabinet-maker, named Wollaston, to make a candle-box; and when that was finished it ex- hibited such beauty that it became quite an object of curiosity. Finding the despised maho- gany created so much excitement, Wollaston made two bureaus of it—one for Dr. Gibbons, and the other for the Duchess of Buckingham ; and the fame of the wood and the cabinet-maker became so great, that the fortunes of the latter were raised more speedily and to a far greater extent than he ever dreamed of when he grumbled over the hard-working wood of Dr. Gibbons's candle-box. The bark of the mahogany tree is astringent and bitter, and has been found to resemble Peruvian bark in its action on the human system. To imitate mahogany take the planed boards of the elm or maple tree, moisten them .first with diluted aquafortis, and when dry varnish them with a tincture made of 2 drachms of dra- gon's blood, I drachm of alkanet root, and ^ drachm of aloes, digested in 8 ozs. of proof spirit. By applying this liquor two or three times with a sponge, or soft painter's brush, it is said to produce the desired effect. MAHOGANY, CLEANING. See Furni- ture (Cleaning), and Ink Stains. MAHOMED'S ELECTUARY. Grocers' currants, 1 oz. ; powdered senna, ^ oz.; pow- dered ginger, 30 grains ; oil of croton, 1 drop ; syrup of roses, sufficient to make an electuary. Two tea-spoonsful every morning. MAID - SERVANTS. See Domestic Ser- vants and Female Servants. MAIDS. They should hang up for one day at least. You may either broil or fry them. If they are of a tolerable size you may boil the[ 180 1 M A I M AL middle part and fry the fins. They should be dipped in egg and covered with bread crumbs. MAINTENON CUTLETS. Cut away the sliin and the greatest portion of fat from tender mutton chops, and remove the end bones. Let a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a few sprigs of parsley, four shallots, and two good-sized fresh mushrooms, if attainable, be well chopped, and warmed up in the fi-ying-pan with a little butter. When the herbs, &c., are quite hot put the chops upon them, and be sure to dress both sides equally. When perfectly brown take them out and let them cool. Brush good stout writing paper over with Florence oil; have ready enough finely grated bread crumbs, and an equal portion of dressed ham, also grated; cover the chops with this, having previously dipped them in yolk of egg well beaten up. Envelope in the oiled paper, and broil for four or five minutes over a slow fire, taking great care that the paper does not ignite, or get covered with smoke or soot. MAlTRE D'HOTEL, COLD. Put i lb. of butter into a saucepan, with some parsley and shallots minced small, whole pepper, and lemon juice; mix the whole together with a wooden spoon, and pour the mcdtre dlidtel either over, under, or into whatever meat or fish you please. MAlTRE D'HOTEL, Lifi. Put into a saucepan J lb. of butter, a tea-spoonful of flour, parsley and scallions chopped small, salt, ■whole pepper, and two ladlesful of water ; set it on the fire only just as it is wanted, stir it like a white sauce, and if it be too thick put in a little lemon juice and water. This sauce should be of the same consistence as white sauce. MAIZE. See Indian Meal. MAIZE, or Indian Coen, like the other' cer^alia, belongs to the natural family Gra- minecB, being neither more nor less than a gigantic grass. It is annual and herbaceous; the root is fibrous; the stems rise to the height of from four to ten feet, and, like other grasses, are furnished with knots at intervals. A great number of varieties are cultivated, differing in the size, hardness, number, and colour of the grains ; the form of the spikes or ears ; and, w'hat is a very important circum- stance to the human family, in the time re- quired to bring them to maturity. Some varieties require five months from the time of sprouting for the perfect maturity of the grains, while a period of six weeks is sufficient for others. It is usually ranked the third grain in point of utility, next after rice and wheat. In some parts of America two crops are ob- tained in a season; but, as it is found to e-\baust the soil very soon, it is usually planted upon the same piece of ground only after an interval of five or six years. It succeeds best in a light and slightly humid soil. The spikes or ears are gathered by hand, and the husks, when perfectly dry, stripped off, and, together with the stalks, laid by for winter fodder, whilst the ears are conveyed to the granary. The gi'een stems and leaves abound in nu- tritious matter for cattle. The corn, when well dried, will keep good for several years, and preserve its capability of germination. It is eaten in various manners in different coun- tries, and forms a wholesome and substantial aliment. Domestic animals of eveiy kind are also extremely fond of it. According to Rum- ford it is, next to wheat, the most nutritious grain. Mixed with rye meal it forms the common brown bread of England ; mixed with water alone it makes a very palatable species of extemporaneous bread. MALAGA. The wines of Malaga are similar to Sherry, but very inferior in flavour, and retain a sweet taste till they are two years old. The old Moimtain, or Siveel Malaga, which was formerly so much in demand, and formed the chief export of Malaga, is now almost out of fashion throughout the world, and is very little made. Pedro Ximenes is a white sweet wine, made from the grape of that name, and, mixed with a small portion of Muscat, gives it the flavour of a Muscat wine. There are two kinds of Muscats—Muscat de Malaga and Muscat de Larmes. The sole diffei'ence between this wine and the Mountain is, that the latter is mixed with a portion of " must" which has been boiled down to one-third. There is also a large quan- tity of dry wine made in the district similar to that of Xeres, but much inferior, and is sold under that name, or shipped to Cadiz to be mixed along with the Sherries. The difference in the making of sweet and diy wines is, that when the grapes are intended for the former they are spread out for three or four days in the sun before they are pressed. MALARIA. See Air, Contagion, Drainage, and Fumigation. MALLOW, MARSH {Althcsa officinalis). This plant is valuable as an emollient, from the great quantity of mucilage which abounds in all its parts, but particulai'ly in the roots. These are about the thickness of a finger, and from a foot to a foot and a half in length. They are collected in autumn from plants at least two years old, and then dried ; the outer skin is removed, and they are thus sent to market. The virtues which the roots and leaves contain are exclusively those of a demul- cent and emollient in diseases attended with pain, irritation, and inflammation of the mucous membrane. It is formed into a decoction, and[ 181 ] M AL MAL drimk in pulmonary complaints, or bruiseJ, boiled, and formed into poultices and fomenta- tions. By confectioners it is made into a lozenge, under the name of pate de guimauve. The whole plant abounds in fibre, mucilage, starch, and saccharine matter. A principle was discovered in the root by M. Bacon, which has been found to be identical with asparagin. The marsh-mallow is used in the East as an article of'food, to which, in seasons of scarcity, even the wealthy are compelled to resort. It is called molocliia. Many of the poorer inha- bitants of Syria, especially the Fellahs, the Greeks, and the Armenians, subsist fof weeks on herbs, of which the marsh-mallow is one of the most common. When boiled first, and then fried with onions and butter, they are said to form a palatable dish ; and in times of great scarcity, consequent upon the failure of the crops, all classes may be seen striving with eagerness to obtain the much-desired plant, which fortunately grows in great abundance. In Job XXX. 3, 4, we read, " Fof want and famine they were solitary, fleeing into the wil- derness in former time desolate and waste, who cut up mallows by the bushes." MALLOWS, SYRUP OF. Take i lb. of mallows root, and having scraped and washed it well, cut it into small pieces, which set on the fire with three pints of water. When suffi- ciently boiled the water will be glutinous; strain off the decoction, and add to it 4 lbs. of sugar; clarify it in the same manner as capillaire, boil it to lisse, run it through a jelly bag, and when cold bottle it. MALMSEY. Malmsey wine took its name from Malvasia, a town in the Morea, whence the grape for it was originally obtained, but which . does not now produce any good wine; and Malmsey Madeira wine is a luscious, sweet beverage, made from over-ripe grapes grown in a rocky part of Madeira, containing only 16 4 per cent, of alcohol, imported in very small quantities into Britain, and is used principally as a liqueur or at dessert. MALT. {See Beewing.) Malt is made from barley soaked in water till it turns reddish, then drained, and spread from one to two feet thick on a floor, where it heats, and emits the root or spike. It is then spread thinner for two or three days, again heaped up until it heats, and finally dried on a kiln, and the roots separated by screening. Five pounds of spring barley produce about 4 lbs. of malt. Malt is used to make an alterative analeptic infusion, and its decoction is fermented to form beer or ale. In the sweating process of malting, after four days, a thermometer in it rises 10° above the atmosphere—an efi^ect of theatpmic naotion from the decomposition of the parts. While sprouting the heat proceeds rapidly, the gluten and the mucilage are abstracted from the root, and the kernel becomes mealy. Kiln drying stops the germination, and at 119° produces white malt, at 134° amber, at 148° brown, at 171° coffee colour, and at 176° black. In mash- ing the pale permits less heat in the liquor than higher colours. Barley in malting loses one-fifth of its first weight. The grains of 100 lbs. of raw grain, after malting and brewing, weigh 55 lbs., and of 100 lbs. of malt 54 lbs. Wort evaporated gives a treacle-like residuum of specific gravity 1'552. If 60 bushels of malt yield 23J barrels of worts, specific gravity 10683, and they are boiled down to 19f barrels, or a sixth, the specific gravity is LOBQ. If 72 bushels yield 15 barrels, specific gravity 1 072, and it is boiled to 13, the specific gravity is 1-106. Good ale requires 1 lb. of hops to a bushel of malt, and weaker but | lb. Too long boiling evaporates the aroma of the hops. Every kind of grain w'ill make beer if half germinated, so as to acquire the saccharine quality; and it may be germinated either by burying it, or by water and heat, in the manner of malting. A grain of barley weighs two-thirds of a grain (0-681°), and its cubic contents are the 500th of a cubic inch (0 00217). Barley-corns yield 5 husk, 19 meal, and 3 volatile matter. The mean length of various kinds is 0 3385 of an inch, or 20 to 7 inches ; but when our long measure was settled it was taken as 0-3333, or 3 to the inch. A bushel weighs from 50 lbs. to 501 lbs. Worts of 1*07 specific gravity give ale of 1 0285, with 25 lbs. of saccharine ; of 1-08, ale of 103, with 24-3 lbs.; of 1-09, ale of 1-042, with 38 lbs.; of 1-1, ale of 1 042, with 36 lbs. Porter wort is 1-0645, and the porter 1-015. Brown stout TOl. About one-fourth of ale evaporates in cooling from 200° to 520°. Patent malt is malt kept heated to 130° until it acquires a dark chocolate colour, and is then used to colour beer : 1 lb. with 79 lbs. of pale malt gives the colour and flavour of porter. MALT SPIRITS. These may be highly improved by putting 3 J ozs. of finely powdered charcoal and ozs. of ground rice into a quart of spirits, and letting it stand fifteen days, fre- q^uently shaking it; then let the liquor be strained, and it will be found equal to brandy. MALT VINEGAR. Put ten gallons of^ boiling water into a large tub, and stir till it cools a little; then add the malt (two-thirdsMAL [ 183 ] MAL barley and one-thii'd wheat) a little at a time, stirring it with a stick until it is thoroughly mixed with the water, and cover the tub. Boil some more water, take the mash from the bottom of tlie large tub, put it into a smaller one, so that there may be a space of two inches between the bottoms of each tub, and set another small tub on the top. This latter should have holes .pierced in it, through which pour the boiling water on the mash beneath ; lay straw over, and leave it for an hour and a half. After that time draw off the water by means of a cock placed be- tween the two tubs ; then pour fresh boiling water over the malt, let it stand again, and repeat this operation as many times as you think necessary. The precise number must be regulated accord- ing to the intended strength of the vinegar. Pour the liquor into casks, and when cold and settled put it into a large barrel with a head to it; add some beer lees, cover, and leave it for ten hours to ferment. As soon as it is clear pour it into a cask previously washed with strong vinegar, put to it some yeast, skim it well, and you will then have vinegar of the best quality. MALT WINE. For a hogshead mash three hours, and boil in the usual way, using four bushels of malt to 2J lbs. of the best hops. Excite the activity of the bitter of the hops by just cover- ing them with boiling water, and then run the wort upon the prepared hops. Boil the whole an hour and a half, and strain out half the hops; then put the boiling wort into the upright ' cask in which it is intended to be kept, leaving at least six inches in a hogshead vacant, as room for fermentation, which maybe ascertained by boring a vent hole in the side six or eight inches down, or level with the proposed top of the liquor, till no more runs out at the hole. Bung it up at once, and peg it very tightly. Admit no air, and in four or five months it will be ripe and very delicious. The casks must, of course, be strong, and no way dis- turbed ; and, without due care in leaving a space at the top, the bottom or any weak part will give way. MALVERN WATER. The fancied sanc- tity of this water, from its long-established efficacy in the cure of many chronic diseases, gave it, in former times, the name of the " holy well," which it still retains. Its medical powers are to be referred to its remarkable purity, whereby its diluent property is considerably increased, and also to its low temperature. When first drawn it appears quite clear and pellucid, and does not become sensibly turbid on standing. It resembles, in every respect, pure good soft water. A wine gallon of it contains about five grains of the carbonate of soda, with a very minute quantity of the carbonate of iron. Its foreign matter, therefore, is less than that of any water in common use. Notwithstanding this purity, it is said not to keep well, but to acquire a fetid odour by standing in open vessels. This cir- cumstance Dr. Wall imputes to the ready solubility in it of the impurities of tubs and other vessels. Malvern water is principally employed as an external remedy. It has been found eminently serviceable in painful and deep-seated ulcera- tions, occurring in a scrofulous habit of body, attended with local irritation and fever ; in in- flammations of the eye and eyelids; and in those eruptions accompanied with intolerable itching, where there is great irritation, and where the skin is apt to break into painful fissures that ooze out a watery, acrid lymph. On its first application to an inflamed surface it will often increase for a time the pain and irritation, which, however, go off in a few days. The great benefit arising from its external use has led to its employment in some internal afi"ections, and often with success, as the follow- ing :—Painful disorders of the kidneys and bladder, attended with a discharge of bloody, purulent, or fetid urine; in hectic fever, the consequence of scrofulous ulcerations of the lungs, or irritating sores on the surface of the body ; and in old fistulas. In these complaints it should be used at all times of the day, constituting a common or diet drink. Its efi"ects on the bowels are by no means constant. Sometimes it purges briskly for a few days, but occasionally it constipates, par- ticularly those who are addicted to the use of malt liquors. In all cases it increases the secretion of urine, and if it agrees with the invalid it will improve his appetite, spirits, and general health. In some instances it produces slight nausea, drowsiness, giddiness, and head- ache ; but these symptoms soon disappear, or yield to a gentle purgative. These occm-rences Dr. Wall ingeniously enough refers to a tempo- rary plethora, or fulness of the vessels of the head, produced by the rapidity and ease with which this pure liquid enters the absorbent system. The duration of a course of this water must be regulated according to the nature and in- veteracy of the disease. The local disorders should be kept constantly wet with it by means of linen dipped in the water, and renewed when dried. The bowels should be kept regular by occa- sional doses of aloes, rhubarb, or Epsom salts; and the diet should be bland and nutritive. The rich and beautiful scenery of this water- ing place, the salubrity of its atmosphere, its[ 18B ] MAN MAN delightful walks and rides, tempting the invalid to active exercise, and its exhilarating influence ou the animal spirits, arising from these cir- cumstances, constitute important auxiliaries in the cure of diseases, and powerful attractions to its fountain of health. The village of Ilkley, in Yorkshire, ahout sixteen miles west from Thorp-Arch, possesses in its vicinity a spring similar in purity to the Malvern. It is, consequently, appropriate to the same diseases. MANDARIN'S DELIGHT. To make this cordial take proof spirit of wine, 1 gallon ; water, 5 quarts; white sugar, 4 lbs. ; seeds of anise and seeds of musk [Hibiscm abelmoschus), of each, bruised, J oz. ; safflower, J oz. Put the whole into a two-gallon stone bottle; cork it tightly; shake daily for a fortnight; then strain. MANGANESE is a mineral found in the Mendip Hills. It is the black oxide of manga- nesium. Considerable quantities of manganese are employed in glass-works for purifying glass, as it destroys the effects of colouring substances, and renders vitrified matters perfectly clear, from which property it has received the appella- tion of soap of glass. Farther, it imparts to a large quantity of glass, in a state of fusion, a purplish or reddish tinge, that disappears if continued in the fire. Manganese likewise communicates various tints to warm water, such as green, purple, red, blue, &c., which change on agitating that fluid. When distilled with the muriatic acid this mineral yields hydro- chloric acid, or bleaching liquor of Berthollet. It is also employed for glazing earthenware, which thus acquires a black colour. After being calcined in a strong fire it has been recommended medicinally as an astringent. MANGE. See Dog. MANGLING. This is done with everything that is straight, such as sheets, tablecloths, napkins, and silk pocket-handkerchiefs. Waist- coats or trousers must not be mangled on account of their buttons, which would get broken in mangling, and might also cut or otherwise injure the garment; and things with plaits and folds could not be made to look smooth when mangled. In placing things in the mangle care must be taken that every- thing is laid quite smooth. Table linen, sheets, and all things that are large enough, should be put upon the rollers very smooth and tight, and rolled on from end to end with the mangling cloth on the outside; but small things should be laid upon the cloth, and rolled on together with it: any creases that remain in them must be ironed out before being put to air. Best table linen should be twice mangled, that is, be taken off the roller, and put on again the reverse way; but for all other things once is sufficient. As mangled clothes require more airing than ironed ones, it is very necessary to do the mangling first. Cotton stockings may be either mangled or ironed: if the former, the right side outwards; if the latter, on the wrong. MANGOES, CUCUMBER: To Pickle. The proper cucumbers to be used for this pur- pose are those of the largest sort, which must be taken from the vines before they are too ripe or yellow at the ends. Cut a piece out of the side, and take out the seeds with an apple- scraper or a tea-spoon; then put them into very strong salt and water for eight or nine days, or till they are yellow; stir them well two or three times every day, and put them into a pan, with a large quantity of vine leaves both over and under tkem. Beat a little roche alum till very fine, and put it into the salt and water they came out of; pour it on the cucumbers, and set them upon a very slow fire for four or five hours till they are pretty green ; then take them out, drain them in a hair sieve, and when they are cold put to them a little horseradish, then mustard seed, two or three heads of garlic, a few peppercorns, a few green cucumbers sliced in small pieces, then horseradish, and the same as before mentioned till you have filled them; then take the piece you cut out, sew it on with a large needle and thread, and do all the rest in the same manner. Have ready the following pickle :—To every gallon of vinegar put 1 oz. of mace, the same of cloves, 2 ozs. of sliced ginger, the same of long pepper and Jamaica pepper, 3 ozs. of mustard seed tied in a bag, 4 ozs. of garlic, and a stick of horseradish cut in slices. Boil them five minutes in the vinegar, then pour it upon your pickles, tie them down closely, and keep them for use. MANGOES, MELON : To Pickle. Cut a square piece out of the side of a melon, extract the seeds, and mix them with mustard seed and slired garlic; stuff the melon full, replace the piece in the side, and bind it up with thread. Boil a quantity of vinegar with pepper, salt, and ginger, and pour it quite hot over the mangoes four days successively, adding at the last flour of mustard and scraped horseradish to the vinegar just when it comes to the boil. Cover the melon slices closely with plenty of vinegar. MANGOES, ONION: To Pickle. Cutout the bottom of onions so large that they will admit the heart being scooped out, replace the tops, and put them in strong brine ; leave them ten days, take them out, and have a mango pickle prepared as above. Fill and finish them, putting some minced onions that have been steeped in brine, with a clove of garlic, two or three shallots, mustard seed, and ginger, into each. MANNA. This very mild purgative is pro-MAT [ 184 ] MAR duced by a tree related to the common ash. The manna ash [Oriius Europaus) is a native of Italy and Sicily. In the warmest season of the year, from the middle of June to the end of Jul3% a clear juice exudes from the stem and branches of these trees [Manna di s2)ontana), which, when naturally concreted on the plants, and scraped off, is called manna in the tear ; but the manna of commerce is got only from incisions [Manna forzatella). If allowed to exude on straws, or chips of wood fastened to the tree, it is called cannalated or flaky manna. The heat of the sun coagulates the frothy juice which exudes, and gives it the form of stalactites. The com- mon or fat manna exudes in September and October, dries more slowly and in larger masses, and is of a redder colour. The best manna is in oblong, light, friable pieces or flakes, of a ^\•hitish or pale yellow colour, and somewhat transparent, having often a fibrous crystallisa- tion internally. It melts easily on the tongue, and has a sweet, somewhat sharp taste, not nauseous or unpleasant, and a very weak, not nauseous smell. The inferior kinds are moist, unctuous, and dark coloured. Manna is a mild, agreeable laxative, and may be given with safety to children and pregnant women: nevertheless, in some particular con- stitutions it acts very unpleasantly, producing flatulency and distention of the viscera: these inconveniences may be prevented by the addi- tion of any grateful ^varm aromatic. Manna operates so weakly as not to produce the full effect of a cathartic unless taken in large doses, and hence it is rarely given by itself with this intention. It may be commodiously dissolved in the purging mineral waters, or joined with the cathartic salts, senna, rhubarb, or the like. MAPLE. The wood of this species is much used by turners, being far superior to that of the beech. When it abounds with knots it is greatly esteemed by joiners for the purpose of inlaying. On account of its lightness maple wood is also frequently em- ployed for musical instruments. Being re- markably white it was formerly converted into tables and other articles of domestic furniture, particularly cups, which last may be turned so thin as to transmit light; but at present this tree is principally planted for hedges and for underwood, because it is of quick growth and aff'ords excellent fuel. A decoction of the bark of the common maple imparts to wool, prepared in a solution of bis- muth, a reddish brown colour similar to that obtained from woad. To imitate maple wood the article must be of deal. The staiu is merely aquafortis, washed on with a brush or a piece of rag fixed to the point of a stick. As soon as it has been hastily brushed over hold the article to the fire : it will became yellow in a few minutes. It is then to be brushed over with copal varnish, and left to dry in the sun or open ah-. Two or three coats completely fill the pores of the wood. Then rub it gently with a bit of flat pumice-stone, and give it another coat, perhaps two, letting it be completely dry be- tween each; then polish again very gently, and finish off with flour and a soft rag. It is as good as French polish, and may be washed at any time. MARASCHINO (]). Take 161bs. offine sharp cherries, stone, and take off the stalks; put them into five quarts of brandy, covered closely, to infuse for three days, and then distil the infusion. Distil also 1 lb. of cheiTy leaves in six quarts of filtered river water, from which yoa will obtain about a gallon ; dissolve in this 4 J lbs. of fine sugar, add it to the liqueur, with two pints and a half of kirscliwasser, 1 ^ oz. of spmts of rose, the same of orange flowers, and 3 drachms of spirits of jasmine ; mix all of these together, run through a jelly bag, and bottle it. Cork the bottles well. MARASCHINO (2). Infuse ^ lb. of the kernels of cherries, bruised, for four days in half a gallon of spirits of wine; distil this until reduced to rather less than the above quantity remains, and then add twelve drops of neroli, two quarts more of spirit, and two quarts of distilled water. This may be improved by add- ing half a pint of spirits of wine, in which 2 ozs. of the bfuised kernels of cherries have been infused for a fortnight. Much of this com- pound is made in France; but that manufactured in Switzerland is considered the best. It is a dangerous liquid, containing much of the prin- ciple of prussic acid, and should only be taken in small quantities diluted with water, when it is considered a good stomachjc. MARASCHINO, CONSERVE OF. Pound and sift some of the best lump suggir, and mix it in a china basin with spirit of maraschino until it is of the consistence of pastille paste ; then put it into a skillet over the fire, and heat it gently, stirring it constai;tly, but without let- ting it boil, till very liquid, when it may be poured into funnel-shaped tin moulds- Put these moulds on iron plates, and dry the conserve in a stove. MARASCHINO ICE CREAM. Take two quarts of cream, twelve eggs, 1 lb. of double- refined sugar, and three glasses of true maras- clrino; put the cream on the fire to boil, and in the meantime whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm snow; then pour in eight yolks, and tho sugar pounded and sifted; stir them togetherMAR [ 185 ] MAR lightly, and then add by degrees the boiliug cream whipped continually; set it on the fire, and do not cease whipping until it has boiled up three or four times; pour it through a sieve into a basin, Stirling a little to enable it to run more freely. When cold put it into the sar- botiere with the maraschino, cover it instantly, and ice it as usual. MARBLE, whether coloured or veined, as in our chimney-pieces, or pure white, as in our best statues, is nothing more than chalk; in other words, it is a hard, compact carbonate of lime. Among other places black marble is found at Ashford, in Derbyshire; Dent, in Yorkshire ; Tenby, in Wales; and Kilkenny, in Ireland. White marble is found at Skye, Inve- rary, Blair Athol, and other places in Scotland ; but the sculptor's white marble comes chiefly from Carrara, in Italy. O-rey marble is found at Orelton, near the Glee Hills, in Shropshire. Brown and red marbles are dug from the Duke of Devonshire's estates at Buxton. Yellow or Sienna marble is found also at Mafra, near Lisbon. Blue marble is found near St. Pons, in Languedoc. Green marble occurs near Verona. The variegated marbles occur in many localities both in the British Islands and on the continent. Marbles may be artificially stained. A solu- tion of nitrate of silver penetrates the marble, and communicates a deep red colour to it. A solution of nitrate of gold penetrates less deeply, and communicates a beautiful purple violet colour. Verdigris sinks to the depth of a line into the marble, and gives it a fine green colour. A solution of dragon's blood communicates a beautiful red colour, and gamboge a yellow tint. To apply these two colours it is necessary to polish the marble with a pumice-stone, to dis- solve the gum resins in hot alcohol, and put them on with a camel-hair pencil. The tinctures obtained from woods, as Brazil wood, logwood, &c., penetrate deeply into marble. Tincture of cochineal, with the addition of a little alum, gives marble fine scarlet colour, similar to African marble. Artificial orpiraent produces, when dissolved in ammonia, a liyely yellow colour. If verdigris be boiled with white wax, and the mixture applied to the marble, and removed when it has cooled, it will be found to have penetrated fiye lines, and to have pro- duced a fine emerald colour. When it is wished to apply the different colours in succession some precaution is necessary. The tinctures prepared by spirits of wine and by the oil of tur- pentine are to be applied to the marble while it is hot; but the dragon's blood and gamboge are to be used when the marble is cold. For this purpose it is necessary to dissolve them in alcohol, and employ the solution of gamboge first. This, which is clear, soon becomes turbid, and affords a yellow precipitate. Those parts of the marble which are covered with the tinc- ture are then to be heated by passing over them, at the distance of half an inch, a red-hot iron plate or a charcoal chauffer ; it is then allowed to cool, and the iron is to be again passed over those portions where the colour has not pene- trated. When the yellow colour has been im- bibed a solution of dragon's blood is to be applied in the same manner, and while the marble is hot the other vegetable colours may be communicated. The last colours to be applied are those in union with the wax. These must be used with great caution, because the slightest excess of heat causes them to penetrate more deeply than is necessary, which renders them less adapted for delicate work. During the operation cold water should be occasionally thrown upon them. MARBLE MANTEL-PIECES. The fol- lowing will usually remove stains from them :—• Wash the marble well with soap and water, and then apply this mixture:— Powdered whitning, $ lb.; a tea-spoonful of stone blue, powdered; 1 oz. of soda dissolved in a little water; and ^ lb. of soft soap. Boil these to- gether till thoroughly mixed, and put it whilst hot on the marble with a paste brush ; let it remain on for an hour, then wash it off, and rub the marble dry. MARBLING of books or paper is performed thus:—Dissolve 4 ozs. of gum arable in two quarts of fair water; then provide several colours mixed with water in pots or shells, and with pencils peculiar to each colour; sprinkle them by way of intermixture upon the gum water, which must be put in a trough, or some broad vessel; then with a stick curl them, or draw them out in streaks to as much variety as may be done. Having done this, hold the book or books close together, and dip only the edges in on the top of the water and colours very lightly. The impression of the colours will be, of course, upon the leaves, which must be after- wards glazed. Paper may be marbled in the same planner by merely bringing one surface in contact with the colours. MARCHPANE. Take 4 lbs. of sweet almonds, and throw them into boiling water, in which let them lie till the skin loosens ; then put them into cold water, and after a few miijutes blanch and throw them again into cold water to wash them thoroughly. When dry pound them, a handful at a time, to a yei'y fine paste, moisten- ing each handful with two spoonsful of water. The whole quantity of almonds being pounded, put the paste into a large preserving-pan, with 4 lbs. of the best lump sugar finely pounded and sifted; set the pan on a coal fire, and stir and[ 186 ] MAK MAR ■work them up together with a large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the bottom. Be very careful that none of the paste adheres to the pan. The consequence of such neglect would he that the marchpane would be spotted with yellow, and would smell unpleasantly. Whilst working it up, the paste, which when put in was tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, and a great deal of vapour may be observed. The first is caused by the sugar being dissolved by the heat and moisture; the second by the evapora- tion of the water. Continue to stir and work it up in this manner without ceasing for two hours, and if, at the end of that time, you can touch the paste without its adhering to your fingers, it is sufficiently dried, in which case remove it all to one side of the pan, clean the bottom and side of the other, and sprinlde it well with flour; then put the paste to that part, clean and sprinkle the other side also; then take the pan by both bandies, and move it round and round, so that the paste may all unite together. As soon as it has done so put it into a sheet of paper, or, if you want to use it immediately, on a well-floured table. This paste, if the almonds be well pounded, and then thoroughly dried, will keep good for six months. If these two precautions are not properly attended to it will become sour in ten days. MARCHPANE, ROYAL. Take lib. of sweet almonds, blanch and throw them into cold water, drain and pound them, moistening them with orange-flower and plain water, but take care not to put too much at once. The almonds being reduced to a paste, put them into a preserving-pan, with ^ lb. of powder sugar; set the pan on a moderate fire to dry the paste, which will be sufficiently so if, when you touch it, it no longer sticks to your finger; then take it out, and place it on a plate or wafer paper previously sprinkled with sugar. As soon as it is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your hand to the size of your little finger; form them into rings, and lay them on U'on gratings ; glaze, and put them into a brisk oven to colour. The above paste may also be employed as follows :— Roll it out and cut it in half; spread over one piece apricot marmalade, or any other pre- serve you please; cover it with the other piece, cut it into lozenges, crescents, &c., accord- ing to your fancy, and lay them on the grating as above; glaze, and colour them in a quick oven. MARIGOLD {Calendula officinalis). The dried flowers are now sometimes used in soups. Formerly they were'used in medicine, and be- lieved to promote perspiration. MARIGOLD CHEESE: To Make. Pick the best coloured and freshest leaves you can get, pound them in a mortar, and strain out the juice, which must be put into milk at the same time with the rennet, and both stirred together. The milk being set, and the curd come, break it as gently and equally as you can; then put it into the vat, press it with a moderate weight, and have holes at the bottom to let out the whey. MARINE CEMENT, or Glue. Dissolve ^oz. of caoutchouc and loz. of shellac sepa- rately in no more naphtha than is just sufficient to make a thick glue. Mix them together. It forms a very strong cement for wood, and is quite unsoftened by water. MARJORAM CONSERVE. Take the tops and tenderest part of sweet marjoram, which bruise well in a wooden mortar or howl; take double its weight of fine sugar, boil it with marjoram water till it is as thick as syrup, and then put in the beaten marjoram. MARJORAM, ESSENCE OF. Take some marjoram, pick off the leaves, and lay them to dry in a warm place for about a couple of hours; then take a large-mouthed bottle, and f;ut the leaves into it; let the bottle be filled with them, pour upon them wine, brandy, proof spirit, or vinegar, and let them steep for fourteen days. MARJORAM, SWEET: To Preserve. Beat up very well the white of an egg, and then finely beat and sift some double-refined sugar; take some marjoram, rub it on a glass that is quite clean, and lay it in the form of the glass. So do it with the egg, then sear it with the sugar on it, and lay it on paper to dry. MARKETING. The following hints are for guidance in purchasing provisions. We are indebted for them to the works of Mr. Rozea, "Magazine of Domestic Economy," and Mrs. Parkes. Bacon should have a thin rind. The fat should be firm, and inclined to a reddish colom"; and the lean should firmly adhere to the bone, and have no yellow streaks in it. When you are purchasing a ham have a knife stuck in it to the bone, which, if the ham be well cured, may be drawn out again without having any of the meat adhering to it, and \vithout your perceiving any disagreeable smeU. A short ham is reckoned the best. Butter. It is necessary to use much caution in purchasing this article in order not to be deceived, for too frequently a well-tasted and scented piece is artfully placed in the lump which is offered for your approbation; there- fore it is better to taste it yourself at a ventui-e, and not to trust that which may be given to you. If you buy salt butter put a knife into it, and apply it to your nose, when the smell wiU direct you much better than the taste; but if[ 18T ] MAR MAR it be In a cask have it unhooped, and thrust your knife between the staves into the middle of it, and then you cannot be deceived ; for in the middle of the cask is frequently a different sort from that at the top, which is artfully introduced by those who send it from the country. Capon. A good capon mil have a fat thick rump and belly, a fat vein under the wing, and on the side of the breast. If young he will have a short, blunt spur and smooth legs ; but look narrowly, for fear his spurs be cut, pared, or scraped smaller; and if you mistrust his being old pinch him on the breast with your thumb, and if it is soft, receiving the pinch easily, he is a young one; but if hard, then he is old. If he is pale about the head, and has a short comb, then he is young; if red about the head he is no clean capon. If new he will have a close, hard vent; if stale, a loose, open one. Capons are of a right age at eight or nine months. A capon fed in the open air on pure meat is preferred, says an old author, by all physicians, ancient or modern, Greeks or Latins, before all meats. A roasted or boiled capon helps the appetite, opens the breast, clears the voice, fattens lean men, and nourishes old men, restores sick men, hurts none but the idle, tastes pleasantly, and digests easily. He is more solid than the flesh of pullets, more tender than cocks ; not so dry as a cock, to be slowly digested; not so moist as a chicken, to be soon corrupted; but equally affected and temperate in all qualities, engendering much blood, and yet inoffensive; and helps natural heat without unnatural sharpness. The flesh of capons is so raild, temperate, and nourishing, that it is thought he must be desperately consumed that capon jelly would not recover. Cheese. Particular attention should be paid to the coat or rind in the purchasing of this article. If the cheese be old, and has a rough coat, rugged or dry at top, you may expect to find little worms or mites in it; and if it be over-full of holes, moist, or spongy, it probably is maggoty. Should you observe any decayed places on the outside be careful to probe them to the bottom ; for, though the hole in the coat may appear but small, it may be of considerable dimensions within the cheese. Chickens. Choose the whitest and fattest. If chickens be newly killed they will be stiff and white, and firm in the vent; but if stale killed they will be limber, and the vent green. Choose them dry pulled, for they will in this case roast better. Chickens are best in summer, and pullets and hens best in winter. Cock chickens are best before they crow, and hen chickens before the cock treads them. The game sort nave the finest flavour, but their flesh is somewhat darker than the other, and of course affords more nourishment. A Cock has a red comb and red gills. If he has a short spur, not cut nor pared, and if he is fat, he will eat well. If stale he will have an open vent; but if new a close, hard vent. Some think the best part of a cock is his comb; and it is so if he lives to the age of two years, for then his flesh turns brackish and tough. The Romans called these medici galli, cocks of physic, because the physicians most commended them. Cod. a cod should be very thick at the neck; and if it be perfectly fine and fresh the flesh will be white, firm, and of a bright clear colour, with red gills. When they are stale they will appear flabby, and will not retain their proper flavour.' From Christmas to Lady-day is their proper season. Crabs. When they are stale their shells will be of a dusky red colour, the joints of their claws limber, which, being loose, may be turned any way with the finger, and from under their throat will issue an unpleasant smell; but if good they are the very reverse. Eggs. If the egg be new it will feel warm on putting the greater end of it to your tongue» but if cold it is stale ; and according to the degree of heat or cold there is in the egg you may judge of its staleness or newness. Or hold it up against the sun or a candle, and if the yolk appear round, and the white clear and fair, it is a mark of its goodness ; but if the yolk be broken, and the white cloudy and muddy, the egg is a bad one. Or put the egg into a pan of cold water; in this case the fresher the egg is, the sooner it will sink to the bottom ; but if it be addled or rotten it will swim on the surface of the water. Fieldfare. If she be thick and hard in the vent it is a sure sign of her being fat; if limber footed, new killed; but if thin in the vent and dry footed she is both stale and poor. Fieldfares are best when juniper berries are ripe, for then all their flesh is perfumed there- with. Flounders. These fish, when fresh, are stiff, their eyes bright and full, and their bodies thick. They should be dressed as soon as possible after they are dead. Geese. If a tame goose has a red foot and bill she is old; if yellow, young; if new, limber footed; if stale, dry footed. A goose is in high season at Michaelmas, and a stubble goose eats best when it is between four and five months old. Green geese are eaten from one month to three. They are in high season in May and June. A green goose is scalded, whereas a stubble goose is dry picked. WildMAR [_ 138 ] MAR geese are in their high season in or about December. For new and stale, young or old, the same as the tame goose. Hare. A hare will be white and stiff if new and clean killed; if stale the flesh will be black- ish in most parts, and the body limber. If the cleft in her lips spread very much, and her claws are wide and ragged, she is old; the contrary if young. Heathcock and Hen. If young they have smooth legs and bills ; if old, rough. As for the other indications see Partbidges. Hens before they have laid eggs are called pullets. January is tbe high season for pullets with eggs, which you may know by their soft, open vent, and by their red comb. If they ai'e old their combs and legs will be rough; if young, smooth. Choose the fattest and whitest. Hens are best just before they are ready to lay, and yet are full of eggs. They hold good all the cold months, because long rest and sleep in the long nights make them at that time the fattest. It is generally believed that fat pullets, when young, are a very temperate food, of good juice and much nourishment, strengthening natural beat, engendering good blood, sharpening dull appetites, quickening the eyesight, and nourish- ing the brain. They agree with all ages and complexions, for they are neither so hot as to turn, as the old physicians were wont to say, into choler, nor so cold as to turn into phlegm, nor so dry as to be converted into melancholic; but turn wholly, or for the most part, into blood, making a lively colour in the face, and quickening both the eyesight and every sense. The flesh of pullets is sweetest when they are not too much fed, as the barn-door sort, which dig out their meat with their heels in some clean place where they have plenty of room and fresh air. Those that are kept in coops are not so sweet; for, as jailers are said to sipell of the prison, so do they of their own dung. Some ancient authors have been so mistaken as to aver that the flesh of fowls has a secret property of causing the gout, and we see that this distemper rages most among those who feed on fowls' flesh; for the poor, who cannot get fowls to eat, are seldom troubled with this distemper. The logicians would say non sequitur; for it is not surely that this distemper proceeds from eating of fowls, so much as from want of exercise, and most of all by drinking acid wine and other liquors, that gout arises. Herrings. The gills of a fresh herring will be of a fine red, aixl the whole fish stiff and very bright; but if the gills be of a faint colour, and the flesh limber and wrinkled, you may be assured it is stale. Pickled herrings, when good, are fat, fleshy, and white; and red her- rings will be large, firm, and dry : the latter should be full of roe and melt, and the outsides of a fine yellow. Those that have the skin or scales wrinkled on the back are preferable to those which have broad scales. Lamb will not keep long after it is killed. We believe you may discover by the neck end in the fore-quarter if it has been killed too long, the vein in the neck being bluish when the meat is fresh, but green when it is stale. In the hind-quarter the same discovery may be made by examining the kidney and the knuckle ; for the former has a slight smell, and the knuckle is not firm, when the meat has been too long killed. Larks. Tliey are of three sorts—the titlark, woodlark, and field-lark. When any of these are fresh they are stiff and firm, but limber and flabby when stale. The feathers come off with the least touch when stale, the contrary when fresh. Leveret. A leveret, if she be newly killed, will be stiff, but if stale killed will be limber. A right leveret has a small knobbed bone on the outside of the fore leg near the foot. If, by stroking your finger down her leg, you do not feel any, she is not a leveret, but a hare. It is said that hares' flesh prevents fatness, cleanses the blood, and is very diuretical. The Italians generally believe that eating of much hares' flesh makes a man fair and merry seven days after; for which purpose, perhaps, they were so much in request among the Romans that they bred them tame as we do rabbits. Lobsters. The tail of a boiled lobster, if fresh, will be stiff, and pull up ^\ith a spring; but if it be stale the tail will be flabby, and have no spring in it. But it is more advisable to buy them alive and boil them yourself, taking care that they are not spent by too long keeping. If they have not been long taken the claws will have a quick and strong motion on squeezing the eyes ; and the heaviest are esteemed the best. The cock lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail; the two uppermost fins within its tail are stiff and hard, but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller than the female, has the higher flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the body of a redder colour when boiled. Mutton must be chosen by the firmness and fineness of the grain, its good colour, and firm white fat. It is not considered excellent until the sheep be about five years old, although it is too often kiUed younger. Ox Beef, when it is young, will have a fine open grain and a good i-ed colour. The fat should be white; for when it is of a deep yellow colour the meat is seldom very good, andM A R [ ] M A R the animal has probably been fed upon oil cakes, ■which may have fattened and increased its bulk, but certainly it will be found not to have improved either the flavour or the appearance of the meat. The grain of cow beef is closer, the fat whiter, and the lean scarcely so red as that of ox beef. When you see beef of which the fat is hard and skinny, and the lean of a deep red, you may suppose it to be of an inferior kind; and when the meat is old you may know it by a line of a horny texture running through the meat of the ribs. Oysters. Oysters, when alive and full of vigour, will close fast upon the knife on open- ing, and let go as soon as they are wounded in the body. Of the various species those called the native Milton, being the fattest and whitest, are most esteemed ; but some prefer the Col- chester, Pyfleet, and Milford oysters. Partridges are best and most in season at i.... end of harvest, before they have either trod or laid. A partridge, if it be old, has a white bill and bluish legs; but if it be young it has a blackish bill and yellowish legs. If new it will have a fast firm vent; but if stale it will have a green vent, and will peel if you touch the vent hard with your finger. If they have fed on green corn, and their crops are full, they will taint there; and to know this open the bill and smell at the mouth. A partridge of this sort is what the French admire. Partridges have a temperate heat, but incline a little to dryness. They feed upon snails, chickweed, tops of leeks, and all manner of good and wholesome com. They are never subject to pips or rheumatic diseases, which makes them live till they are almost twenty years old. Peacocks. They are seldom used except for great feasts, and more to make a show than for the goodness of the meat, and then a pie will best suit the flesh of them A pea-chicken is exceedingly good meat, but must be dressed the same day or the day after it is killed. Peahens lay, sit, feed, and bring forth their young of them- selves, without any trouble to their owners. Peacocks are, as poets say, the beloved birds of Juno, which none durst kill in old times for fear of the displeasure of that jealous and revengeful goddess. Among the Romans Quin- tus Hortensius is recorded to be the first that brought them to the table, whose commenda- tions made them so desired, that in a little time a peahen's egg was sold for ten pieces of silver, and the carcass for twenty times as much. Leo X., the famous epicurean pope, caused their flesh to be made into sausages, for which he paid every year many hundred ducats. St. Austin writes of peacocks' flesh that in a twelvemonth it corrupts not after it is dressed, drawing thence some far-strained comparison about the soul's immortality. Pigeons. Dovehouse pigeons, when newly killed, feel stiff and firm in the vent; but when stale killed they are limber and green in the vent; if old, i-ed legged. Turtle-doves for the most part are white, and they have a bluish ring about their neck. After they are matched and are bred together, if one of them dies, the other will never match again with anj' other, but will pine away and die. The best way to kill pigeons is to blood them to death under the wings, which makes their flesh more cold and white, insomuch that the Italians usually give them to sick persons for agues as we do chickens. Plovers There are four kinds of plovers— the green, grey, stone, and bastard plover, called a lapent. The first two are the best. When new they are limber footed ; when fat they feel thick and hard in the vent; but when lean they feel thin in the vent; when stale they are dry footed. These birds keep sweet and good the longest of any in England. A grey plover has ever been in great esteem, and the ancients have raised this proverb made on a curious and malcontented stomach: "A grey plover cannot please him. " Pork should have a thin rind, and when it is fresh the meat is smooth and cool; but when it looks flabby, and is clammy to the touch, it is not good ; and pork, above all meats, is disagree- able when it is at all stale. If you perceive many enlarged glands, or, as they are usually termed, kernels, in the fat of pork, you may conclude that the pig has been diseased, and the pork cannot be wholesome. Prawns and Shrimps. These fish, when in perfection, afford a pleasant scent, are very firm, and their tails turn stifily inwards. They have a bright colour when fresh ; but their tails grow limber, the brightness of their colour goes off, and they become pale and clammy when stale. Quails. The quail is smaller than a pigeon, yet much larger than a lark. They are fine birds when fat. The best come from France and Germany. They are fattened in large cages, and sold by Germans, who bring them from abroad, to the poulterers in London. Some others imagine that quails have a secret property of engendering the falling sickness, which certainly must be a mistake, for we read that, when the Israelites loathed manna, quails were sent them as the best and daintiest meat of all other. Rabbit. If she is newly killed she will be stiff; if stale killed, limber and slimy. If old her claws are very long and rough, and the wool mottled with grey hairs; if young, the ^aws and wool smooth.[ MO ] MAE MAR Salmon. Previously to giving directions for choosing a salmon it may not be improper to make a few remarks on the choice of fish in general. In order to discover whether they are fresh or stale take notice of the colour of the gills, which should be of a lively red ; whether they are hard or easy to be opened, the projec- tion or indentation of their eyes, the stiffness or limberness of their fins, and the scent from their gills. The flesh of a salmon, when new, is of a fine red, and particularly so at the gills. The scales should be bright and the fish very stiff. The spring is the proper season for the salmon, which is then of a fine, rich, and plea- sant flavour. Skate. This fish, if it be too fresh, will eat very tough ; and if stale it has a strong and disagreeable scent. When perfectly good and sweet the flesh will look exceedingly white, and be thick and firm. Smelts. If smelts be fresh they will be very firm, will have a peculiarly strong smell, greatly resembling that of a pared cucumber, and will be of a fine silver hue. Snipes are chosen by the same rule as wood- cocks. Soles. Soles, if good, are thick and firm, and the belly of a cream colour ; but if they are flabby, or incline to a bluish white, they are not good. Midsummer is the proper season for this fish. Stuegeon. The flesh of this fiish is very little white, and has a few blue veins, the grain even, the skin tender, good coloured, and soft. All the veins and gristles should be blue ; for when they are brown and yellow, the skiu harsh, tough, and dry, the fish is not good. It has a pleasant smell when in perfection, but a very disagreeable one when bad. It should also cut firmly without crumbling. The females are as full of roe as a carp. Swans. When they are young they are called cygnets, and if kept in a little pond, and well fed with corn, their flesh will not only alter its blackness, but also be freed of its unwholesome- ness. They are generally skinned, and the flesh potted or made into pies. They are much ad- mired in Muscovy and East Friesland. Swans' flesh was forbidden the Jews, because by them the hieroglyphical sages described hypocrisy; for as a swan has the whitest feathers and blackest flesh of any bu'd, so the hearts of hypocrites are contrary to their outward appearance. It was not, therefore, for the badness of their flesh, but for resembling wicked mens' minds they were forbidden. Tame Ducks. When they are stale their foet will feel diy; but if newly killed they will be limber footed. The tame has a thicker foot than the wild duck, somewhat blackish, inclining to yellow. Ducklings are related to ducks as chickens are to hens. They are always scalded, and if you meet with them so ready prepared in a poulterer's shop, rub your finger on the breast: if it feels rough they are newly killed; but if it feels slippery or slimy they are stale killed. Their age cannot deceive you. Teal. For newness and staleness as the wild duck. They feel thick and hard on the belly when fat, but if they feel thin on the belly then they are lean. Tench. Tench should be dressed alive in order to be eaten in perfection ; but if they be dead examine the gills, which should be red and hard to open. The eyes wiU be bright, and the body firm and stiff if fresh. They are generally covered with a kind of slimy matter, which, if clean and bright, is a proof of their being good. Rubbing them with a little salt will easily re- move tliis slimy matter. Teout. The females of this excellent fresh- water fish are held most in esteem, and are dis- tinguished by having a smaller head and deeper body than the males. The best sort are red and yellow. They are in high perfection the latter part of June. TuRBOT. This fish, if good, will be thick and plump, and the belly of a yellowish white ; but if they appear thin and bluish they are bad. This fish is in season duiing the greatest part of the summer, and is in high estimation. Tueket. If a turkey cock be young he has a smooth, blackish leg, and a short spur; but if old he has a sharp spur and red legs. When stale he is dry footed, and his eyes are sunk in his head; but if he be newly killed his eyes wiU stand firmly in his head, as if he were alive. 'If a hen turkey be old her legs wiU be red, and will have a rugged grain. If full of eggs she is soft and open vented; if hard vented, not full of eggs. She is preferred before the cock : her legs are not so coarse. As for newness and staleness, the same as the cock; and the same for turkey poults. Their age cannot deceive you. A turkey is a dainty dish, and worthy a prince's table. It eats best in winter, and should be hung at least three days. Its flesh recovers strength, nourishes plentifully, and agrees with every person and complexion, except such as are of too hot a constitution, or inclined to rheumatism or gout. Veal is generally preferred of a delicate whiteness ; but in our opinion it is more juicy and well flavoured when of a deeper coloui". The butchers are said to bleed calves profusely in order to produce this white meat; but this practice must certainly deprive the meat of some of its nourishment and flavour. When you[ 191 ] MAE MAE choose veal endeavour to looTk at the loin, which will afford you the best means of judging of the veal generally; for if the kidney, which you will find on the under side of one end of the loin, be deeply enveloped in white and firm-looking fat, the meat will certainly be good; and the same appearance will enable you to judge if it has been recently killed. The kidney is the part which changes the first, and then the suet around it becomes soft, and the meat flabby and spotted. Venison. To know whether it be fresh or stale try the haunches or shoulders, under the bones that stick out, with your finger or knife. As the scent is sweet or rank so is it new or stale; and the like of the sides in the most fleshy parts: if tainted they will look greenish in some places, or more than ordinarily black. The buck venison begins in May, and is in high season till September. The doe is in season at Michaelmas, and holds good, if fed, to the end of January. The fore-quarter contains the shoulder, neck, and breast. There is no hind-quarter. The haunch takes up most of the loin with it. Besides these there are some trimmings, which are generally the park-keeper's perquisite, as the tongue, griskin, and umbles. Deer's flesh, which Isaac so much longed for, is thought by some the best, and by some the worst of meats. It is very bad and unwholesome in rutting time. To recover tainted venison. Wrap it up in a coarse cloth, and bury it in dry mould, two feet deep, for forty hours, and the taint will be nearly all taken away. To know whether it be old or young look on the claws of the foot: if the cleft be very wide and rough it is old; if close and smooth it is young. Wild Duck. When fat she feels thick and hard on the belly, but if lean she feels thin and soft on the belly. If newly killed she will be limber footed, but if stale she will be dry footed; and if it be a right wild duck it will have a small reddish foot. Wild Fowl. A pheasant cock, if he be young, has a short blunt spur; but if he be old he has a small sharp one. Observe narrowly if it be not cut or pared. If he be fat he will have a fat vein upon the side of his breast, under the wing; if he be new he will have a fast firm vent; but if he be stale killed he will have a green vent, and if you touch it anything hard with your finger it will peel. The hen pheasant, when young, has smooth legs, and her flesh of a curious grain; if with egg she will have a fast open vent. For new- ness and staleness as the cock. All physicians allow pheasants to be one of the best of meats, and often prescribe pheasant poults in hectic fevers, and upon recovery from a long or violent sickness no meat is more fit than pheasant poults; but strong stomachs, such as those of labourers and ploughmen, by feeding on pheasants, fall immediately into sickness and shortness of breath. Woodcocks. If a woodcock be fat it will feel thick and hard in the vent, and have a fat vein upon the side of the breast; but if lean it will feel thin in the vent; if new killed, limber footed; but if stale, dry footed. Observe if it has a snotty nose or muddy throat, which is very bad; and you may know this by squeezing the throat. Woodcocks are best when they first come in, or rather a month after, when they have rested themselves after their long flight from beyond the seas. MARKING INK. See Ink, Permanent. MARMALADE may be composed of almost any fruits. The best, however, for this purpose are apricots, peaches, oranges, quinces, egg plums, apples, &c. They are usually made by boiling the fruit and sugar together to a kind of pulp, stirring them constantly whilst on the fire. It is kept in pots, which must not be covered till the marmalade is quite cold. The proportion of sugar is i lb. to 1 lb. of fruit. MARMALADE, TRANSPARENT. Take some very pale Seville oranges, and cut them into quarters; take out the pulp, put it into a basin, and take out all the seeds and skin; put the peels into a little salt and water, and leave them to soak in it all night; then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till they are tender, cut them in extremely thin slices, and add them to the pulp. To eveiy pound of mar- malade put 1^ lb. of double-refined sugar finely sifted, and boil them together gently for twenty minutes. If it is not sufficiently clear boil or simmer it for five or six minutes longer; keep stirring it gently all the time, and take great care you do not break the slices. When cold put it into jelly or sweetmeat glasses, and tie them down closely with brandy paper. See Apricot, Orange, and Qdince Marmalade. MARROW BONES. Scrape all the meat from the shoulder or leg bones, saw them across, and trim the ends so that they may stand upon the dish; lay a piece of paste made of flour and water over the top of each bone to keep in the marrow, tie them up in a cloth, and set them on the fire to boil. Send dry toast up with the bones. MARROW CREAM. Pound 1 oz. of sweet almonds with a little milk, press out the milk from the almonds, which use whilst pounding 2 ozs. of beef marrow and some lemon-peel; beat up the yolks of six eggs in warm milk, and add them to the marrow ; mix the whole with a quart of good milk, strain it into a saucepan.MAR M A R [ 192 ] set it on tlie fire, stining constantly till it thickens; then poui- it into small cups or naoulds, put them in a cool place, and turn them out when to be sent to table. MARROW WITH EGGS. Take some teef marrow, pound it well with eggs boiled hard, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and sweet herbs. When well mixed roll it up into little balls, wrap each iu thin paste, dip them in batter, and fry them. MARROW FRITTERS. Boil some beef marrow with a glass of stock till reduced to a thin paste, which pour into flat saucers to about the thickness of a crown piece. When cool turn them out, and dip each into a batter made of cream cheese pounded with a little milk, two handsful of flour, and an egg. Fry these fritters either in oil, lard, or butter. Whichever you use, however, should be boiling. MARROW PASTIES (1). Take the marrow from three marrow bones, a little thyme, winter savory, and sweet marjoram, the yolks of three eggs, ^ lb. of sugar, ^ lb. of currants, a little rose water, and some nutmeg. Work all these together, put them into pasties of puff paste, and fry them in lard. MARROW PASTIES (2). Shred some apples with some marrow, add a little sugar to them, make them up in puff paste, and fry the pasties in clarified butter. When fried strew some sugar over them, and serve. MARROW PASTIES (3). Blanch and pound 4 ozs. of sweet almonds, moistening them with orange-flower water. When reduced to a paste mix it with a handful of flour, a drop of warm water, and the yolks of three eggs; with this line a number of shallow moulds, dorez, and bake them in a slow oven. When done take them out, and put in each a little cream made with beef marrow, lemon-peel, and cream, not laid on thicker than a crown piece ; cover with a spoonful of white of egg whipped to a snow, strew sifted sugar over, and serve them very hot. MARROW PUDDING (1). Grate the crumb of a French roll, put to it a pint of cream, 1 lb. of marrow sliced, four eggs, sugar and nutmeg according to taste, and 2 ozs. of citron sliced. Three quarters of an hour will be sufficient to bake it. You may add currants if jou think proper. MARROW PUDDING (2). Boil in a quart of new milk cinnamon and lemon-peel, and strain to i lb. of beef marrow finely chopped, a few currants washed and picked, some slices of citron and orange-peel candied, a little grated nutmeg, brandy, syrup of cloves, a table- spoonful of each, and ^Ib. of Naples biscuit. When the mixture is cold add eight eggs beat up, omitting five of the whites, and bake it in a dish with puff paste round it. MARROW PUDDING (3). Soak beef mar- row in cold water for twelve hours, then clear away all the pellicles, and beat it with a wooden spoon in a little orange-flower water till of the consistence of thick cream. Take some double cream, mix the marrow with it, add a little mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, and boil it. Blanch and pound 8 ozs. of sweet almonds, moistening them with cream; press the milk from them, and mix with it the whites of thi'ee eggs and the yolks of ten, well whipped. Beat the whole well, and then put to it the maiTow cream, ^Ib. of powder sugar, a little salt, and a sufficient quantity of sifted flour to make it of the proper consistence; tie it in a buttered cloth, and put it into boiling water. When done serve it with melted butter, orange-flower water, and white wine. MARROW PUDDING (4). Grate i lb. of sponge cake, and mix with it J lb. of beef marrow finely minced; add the grated peel and the juice of a large lemon or orange, half a grated nutmeg, and four table-spoonsful of sugar. Stone ^Ib. of very good fresh raisins, cut them in halves, and dredge them well with flower ; beat four eggs till very light, stir them gradually into half a pint of cream or rich milk, and mix it by degi'ees with the other ingredients. Lastly, add the raisins a few at a time, and stir the ■whole very hard. Butter a deep dish, put in the mixture, bake it an hour or more, and send it to table warm, with slips of candied citron stuck all over the top so as to stand upright. For sauce have white wine mixed with sugar and lemon juice. ^ MARROW SAUSAGES. Mince equal quan- tities of beef marrow, fresh pork, and noix of veal; season the mixture well, add sweet herbs if you like, tie them up in sheep's cauls, and make your sausages either flat, oval, or round, according to your taste. MARROW TART. Beat J lb. of almonds with the marrow of four bones, ^ lb. of Naples biscuit, i oz. of pralineed orange flowers, a pint of cream, eight yolks, and three whites ; season with sugar, cinnamon, ginger, salt, and eryngo root or citron cut fine; sheet a dish with puff or sweet paste, glaze it with butter, and sift sugar over it. MARROW TART, CREAMED. After having dressed the tart as above fill it with a ereme patissiere, mixed with beef marrow ; strew it over with minced nuts, sugar, and white of egg ; glaze and finish as the others. MARROW TOASTS. Make a farce with some breast of fowl pounded with herbs, and mixed with yolks of eggs and veal gravy; boil some beef marrow in stock, let it cool, and then cut it in pieces ; spread layers of farce on some slices of fried bread, place the pieces of marrowMAS [ 10-3 ] MAR VOL. It 0 on it (but not near enough to touch each other), cover them with another laj'er of farce, strew bread crumbs over, and colour them in a Dutch oven. MAEROW TUMBLERS. Set on the fire a pint of cream, three eggs, and some powder sugar; let thera boil for half an hour, stirring constantly; then add some beef marrow shred very small, a few pounded macaroons, a little grated lemon-peel, the yolks of two eggs and the whites of four whisked to a froth, and a few drops of orange-flower water, stirring till all are well mixed; then have ready some small plain moulds about an inch and a half deep, butter them well, put a spoonful of cream in each, and bake them. Serve either plain or with nonpareils. The same preparation may also be served as a tourte, but it must not be covered. When baked strew powder sugar over, and glaze with a salamander. MARSALA. Marsala wine is produced in the neighbourhood of Marsala, the ancient Lily- bffium, in Sicily. It varies widely in quality, but was greatly elevated in character, and brought to a state of steady excellence not many years ago, by some English producers, who erected an extensive establishment in the district, and, in consequence, it speedily came into great repute, and rose rapidly in the scale of our imports. It closely resembles the lighter sorts of Madeira, and is much cheaper; and though the quantity imported into Britain in 1823 was under 80,000 gallons, the quantity rose against 1840 to about 400,000 gallons. Average specimens of it, according to firande, contain 25-9 per cent, of alcohol; but a speci- men of it twenty years old, and submitted during five years to Soemmerring's process, con- tained, according to Prout, only 18'-1 per cent. MARSEILLES. Take li-lb. of double-re- fined sugar, and boil it to fort souffie . add to it 1 oz. of ginger in powder, remove the pan from the fire, and with a roiuid stick (like a plain round rule) stir the sugar, inclining the stick towards the sides of the pan; then with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to the edges, and put it amongst the liquid ; work it up again with the stick, remove the solid sugar as before, and repeat this operation four times, when it will have become tolerably thick and firm ; pour it into paper cases about half an inch thick, and with a fork trace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges of what size j^ou please. Afterwards, with the point of a knife, mark some of these deeper than the others. When quite cold take thtm out of the papers, and separate them where the lines are deepest. The Marseilles, if preserved in a warm or dry place, will keep good for a long time. MARSEILLES, SPICED. Take 1^ lb. of fine sugar, and boil it to casse; take J lb. of pre- served orange-peel, the same of candied lemon- peel, or, if you like them better, 2ozs. of blanched pistachio nuts; cut them into dice, and put them, with ^ oz. of cloves and the same of cinnamon (both pounded) into the sugar; stir them in gently, continue to boil your syrup to grande jdiane; then beat it up, pour it into cases, and finish as above. MARSEILLES VINEGAR. See Aromatic Vinegar. MARSHALL'S CERATE. Mix thoroughly together in a marble mortar 5 ozs. of palm oil, 1 oz. of calomel, ^ oz. of superacetate of lead, and 2 ozs. of nitrate of mercury. Used to ulcers which are slow in healing. MASDEU WINE. See Rousillon. MASSEPAIN. Take 1 lb. of sweet almonds, and throw them into fresh water; drain and beat them in a marble mortar, wetting them with water, and also a little orange-flower water; take care not to wet them too much in the be- ginning ; put them in by little and little. When completed put them into a pan, with ^ lb. of sifted sugar, upon a furnace with very little fire to dry it. To know when it is dry enough apply the back of the hand over it; if it does not stick it may be taken out and put upon a leaf, dusted with fine sugar, and left to cool. Cut several pieces upon a table, which ought to be rolled out as equally as possible to the size of a little finger; cut and form into rings, and arrange them upon a grill of brass wire, which put upon a basin. This paste may be rolled out and covered slightly with apricot marmalade, or any other, and put on a cover of the same paste; cut it into lozenges or any other form, put it on the grill, and ice it with ice made of whites of eggs and sugar: they must be iced with a spoon. Let them drain, arrange them upon paper, and put them into a quick oven. MASSEPAINS DE FLEUR D'ORANGE. Powder in a mortar 1 lb. of sugar, mix it with the whites of two eggs, and add to it 1 oz. of orange flowers rubbed to powder. With this paste make some small round cakes or large macaroons, and bake them in a gentle oven on a tin. They will keep the whole year. MASSEPAINS PISTACHES. Shell ^Ib. of pistaches, and beat them well in a mortar, wetting them with orange-flower water that they may not oil. When they are beaten very fine put them into a pan, with 4 ozs. of sifted sugar, and dry them over a slow fire : they are dry enough if, in touching them with the finger, they do not run. Strew a leaf with sifted sugar, and lay the paste on it to cool. When cold beat it with a roller upon a table covered with sugar the thickness of a crown piece, that theMAT MAS [ 19^ ] mony, 1 scruple ; gamboge, 10 grains ; honey to with some pieces of wild rabbits, lamb, and paste may not stick; exit it into any form, round, long, &c., and put them into a very slow oven, that tliey may Lardly take any colour. Glaze them with a sugar icing, into which there has been put some lemon juice. Dry them in a stove. MASSEPAINS, SYRINGED. Take 1 lb. of sweet almonds, skin and dry them well, and "beat them in a marble mortar with the whites of ,eggs, always remembering to add more whites should they be too dry. Being well beaten, add a little gi'ated lemon, with li lb. of sifted sugar; beat these together into a paste, put it into a star syringe, and squirt it upon paper which has been cut into convenient lengths to form rings, \vhich must be arranged on the paper and put into a slow oven. MASTICATION. A most important con- sideration for those troubled with dyspepsia is the fact that, without a thorough chewing or mastication of food, there can be no good di- gestion, and that the dyspeptic pains and in- conveniences are exasperated in proportion to the neglect of mastication. MASTICH. This resin is obtained by wounding the bark of the Pistachia lentiscus. As an internal remedy mastich is now little used; it is employed chiefiy to fill the cavities of carious teeth, for which it is well fitted by its softness ; and the following mode of applying it may not be unacceptable to a great mass of our readers :—Dissolve one part of mastich in one part of ether in a bottle well stopped. With the solution thus formed, which is of a yellow colour and oily consistence, saturate a small piece of cotton of the size of the carious cavity, and, having well cleansed and dried the cavity, introduce the cotton, without painful pressure, so as to fill it exactly. The ether is soon eva- porated, and the resin, remaining soft and adhe- sive, attaches itself to the diseased surface of the tooth, which it protects from the action of the air and of the food taken into the mouth. The women, and even the men, of Turkey chew this resin, particulai'ly in the morning, not only to render their breath more agreeable, but to whiten the teeth and strengthen the gums ; they also mix it with their fragrant waters, and burn it with other odoriferous substances in the ■way of fumigation. A brilliant varnish is made by dissolving mastich in alcohol or oil of tur- pentine ; and a solution made by macerating 1 oz. of mastich and 15 grains of caoutchouc in 2 fluid ozs. of chloroform, and filtering in close vessels, forms a varnish highly esteemed by some microscopists., MATCHES. See Lucifees. MATELOTE AU BOUILLON. Take the wings of turkey poults, pheasants, or partridges, slices of bacon; put them into a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock and champagne, half a glass of olive oil, salt, pepper, and garlic ; cover the pan closely, and stew till reduced to court hoidUoii; then lay the pieces on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If it should be too thick add a glass of consomme. MATELOTE OF BUTCHERS' MEAT. Take beef, veal, mutton, and pork, a large slice of each, and a small slice of leg of lamb; cut them in small pieces, which put into a saucepan, with equal quantities of stock and champagne, salt and spices. Cover them very closely, set them on hot ashes for six houre, and then MATELOTE A LA CALONNE. Take six fowl pinions, a dozen crayfish, some veal sweetbreads, pieces of rabbit, a large eel stuck with anchovies, and cut in pieces three inches long, small onions, morels, streaked bacon, pepper, salt, and a glass of stock. Set these, except the eel and pinions, on a slow fire for half an hour; then add a pint of champagne, some more stock, and two spoonsful of oil, and keep them on the fire. Put the eel and pinions into a separate saucepan, and when three parts done add them to the rest, and finish stewing. As soon as the matelote is sufficiently thick lake the pieces out with a fork, arrange them on a dish according to your taste, lay fried bread round, and in the centre the sauce and court bouillon. MATELOTE HOLLANDAISE. Take a neck of veal, two young pigeons, a small fowl or capon, and some turkeys' pinions; put iJicni into a saucepan with some good stock, set them on the fire till about half done, and then add lb. of rice; cover the whole very closely, and let it stew over a small fire for two hours ; then take it off, pour it into a dish, and serve. MATELOTE PROVENCALE. Take a leveret and a brace of partridges, half roast, and cut them in pieces ; take also some small soles, smelts, or any other kind of fish; put them all into a saucepan, together with a glass of cham- pagne, two of stock, salt, pepper, oil, and six cloves of garlic bruised; boil them to a court bouillon as other matelotes. Dish them gar- nished with veal sweetbreads in consomme. MATHIEU'S VERMIFUGE, or Worm Medicine. This consists of two electuaries ; the one for killing the worms, and the other for ex- pelling them. Tin filings, 1 oz.; fern root, 6 drachms; worm seed, 4 drachms; resinous extract of jalap and sulphate of potash, of each 1 di-achm ; honey to mix. Dose, a tea-spoonful evei7 three hours for two days. Or, jalap and sulphate of potash, of each 2 scruples; scam-[ 195 J MAT M E A mix. Dose, a tea-spooiiful every three hours initil it operates well, the preceding electuary ■having heen previously taken as directed. • MATLOCK WATER. The village of Mat- lock, romantically situated iu a hilly part of Derhyshire, presents to the eye of taste one of the most striking spots of picturesque sceneiy. It possesses several cool springs, the waters of which are conveyed into baths for medical purposes. The temperature, according lo Dr. i'ercival, is usually at 06°. The Matlock water is, therefore, the lowest in temperature of the English thermal waters. It is remarkably clear, has no particular taste, and mixes well with milk. Its specific gravity is but a Yei"y few grains greater than that of distilled water. Its foreign contents (probably the muriate of soda and the carbonate of lime) are, therefore, so trifling, that the medical virtues of this water may be safely ascribed to its purity and temperature. It is principally employed as a bath, and is beneficial in all cases of debility occurring in delicate constitutions, that cannot support the ^ shock of the ordinary cold bath. It forms, on this account, a good intermediate bath between Bath or Buxton and the sea, and may be em- ployed to prepare the invalid for the latter. As an internal remedy it may be used in all cases where a mere diluent, having a tendency to the skin, is required. MATS. These articles, used for wiping the dirt from the shoes, are made of various mate- rials. Those placed in the entrance of the hall ■ are of a coarser and rougher kind ; others of a finer sort are placed at the foot of staircases, ' and at the entrance of apartments. A very coarse mat of German origin, called here the ' chain mat, is made of tarred rope, or of cocoa- nut fibre, which is very durable, and calculated for places where much dirt is made : first a rope goes round the outside to form the boundaiy of the mat, and the same kind of i-ope fills up the interior in zigzag lines, being.fixed with cord in that position, or in any other pattern that may be suggested. As there are interstices between the ropes the dirt falls down in the cavities, and when these are full the mat is easily cleaned by lifting up and shaking. It is obvious that persons in the country who wish to be economical could easily construct mats upon this principle either of old rope, plaited straw, or any similar material. The most serviceable coarse door mats are made of cocoa-nut fibre ; a finer kind is made of the same with white worsted-coloured borders, woven so as to have a brush-like appearance. A very cheap kind is likewise made of straw, or of a kind of tough grass. Fine mats to put before the doors of apartments are made of Indian grass, and are called grass mats; and a still finer kind, or rather ruffs, are made of skins of sheep with the wool on, dyed and pi'epared. Besides these there are merino fringe mats, fancy and worsted mats, Lapland skin, &,c. The skins of sheep and lambs with the wool on are made into door rugs by a patent process, which we shall describe, as one that may be found useful in certain situations. The skins with the wool on are thoroughly cleansed from all impurities and foreign matter that mny adhere to them by washing in running water, by scraping the flesh side in the usual manner with the knife, and by cutting off all the extraneous and ragged parts, when they are ready to be tanned. For that purpose they are stretched upon frames, and laid upon trestles with the flesh side upwards; an infusion of sumach, in the proportion of one pound to a gallon of water, is then poured over the skin, and the tanning matter is worked into the pores of the skin by the aid of the knife. When dry, the reverse, or wool side of the skin, is next placed upwards, and thoroughly washed with a strong alkaline lye, or soap and water, and after- wards in clean water, by which means the grease and filth are removed. When dry the skin undergoes a second operation of tanning with sumach as before mentioned, and, after being dried, its harsh and rigid surface is ren- dered smooth and soft by rubbing it over with pumice-stone. In order to dye it of any colour, before it is taken off the frame its face or woolly part is dipped into a bath of the required tint, ■prepared in the ordinary manner for dying wool, the washing must now be again repeated to get rid of the excess of colourrng matter which adheres to it. The skins are then dried and trimmed to the proper shape.—{Webxter and Parhes' Ena/clopcedia of Domestic Economy.) MATTHEWS' PILLS. 1 tie sa.me iis Star- key's pills. Black hellebore root powdered, liquorice root powdered, Castile soap, turmeric powder, opium powdered, and syrup of saffron. Take of each of these \ oz., and make the whole with oil of turpentine into a mass fit for forming pills. Dose, from one to three pills of 3 grains each. They are anodvne and alterative. MATTING. See Carpets. MATTRESS. See Bedding. MEAD. To 120 gallons of pure water (the softer the better) put 15 gallons of clarified honey ; well mix the honey with the water; then fill your copper (it should hold about 60 gallons), and boil it till it is reduced about a fourth part; then drain it off, and boil the remainder of the liquor in the same manner. When the last is about a fourth part wasted fill up the copper with some of that which was boiled first, and continue boiling and filling upME A [ 196 ] ME A till tlie copper contains tlie whole of the liquor, by which lime it will, of course, be half evapo- rated. The scum must not be taken off, but must mix with the liipior whilst boiling by means of a jet. When this is done draw it off into under-backs by a cock at the bottom of the copper, and let it remain till it is only as warm as new milk; then turn it up, and suffer it to ferment in the vessel, where it will form a thick head. As soon as it has done working stop it down very closely, to keep the air from it as much as possible. When it is half a year old put it into bottles ; have them well worked, and keep them in the same vault the mead stood in whilst in the cask. Those who like mead to have an aromatic flavour may mix with it elder, rose- mary, and marjoram flowers, and use cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, and cardamoms, in various proportions, according to taste. Others put in a mixture of thyme, eglantine, marjoram, and rosemary, with various spices. MEAD: To Make Small. To a gallon of water put 2 lbs. of honey and 1 lb. of sugar; boil for an hour, put in the whites of four eggs to raise the scum, and skim it quite clear whilst boiling ; then put it into a clean tub, and let it stand for a week, putting in a toast with honey to make it work; then turn it, put in the peels of three or four lemons, let it stand for a month, and then if it is not sufficiently fine put in more honey, and let it stand longer. MEAD, COWSLIP. Put 30 lbs. of honey into 15 gallons of water, and boil it till a gallon is wasted. Skim it, take it off the fire, and have ready sixteen lemons cut in half. Take a gallon of the liquor, and put it to the lemons ; pour the rest of the liquor into a tub, with seven pecks of cowslips, and let them stand all night; then put in the liquor with the lemons, eight spoonsful of new yeast, and a handful of sweet brier. Stir all well together, and let it work tln-ee or four days; then strain it, pour it into your cask, let it stand six months, and then bottle it off for use. MEAD, FRONTIGNAC. Take 50 lbs. of honey, 50 lbs. of fine raisins, and 50 gallons of water; boil about fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed ; put it in a tub to work, and add to it a pint of ale yeast, letting it work until the yeast begins to fall. When taken clear off turn it with the raisins, and throw into the cask a quart of white elder flowers. Take care to attend to it in change of weather. Let it continue in the ^ask for twelve months, then fine it down with wine fining, and put it into bottles. MEAD SACK. To every gallon of water put 4 lbs. of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, carefully skimming it. To eveiy gallon add 1 oz. of hops; boil for half an hour, and let it stand till the following day ; tlien put it into a cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Stop it lightly till the fenuentation is over, and then stop it very closely. If you make a large cask keep it in the cask for one vear. MEADOW SAFFRON. See Colchicum and Eau Medicinale 0e Husson. MEALS. Number OF Meals. Dr. Paris says, though the advantage of regular meals at stated periods is desirable, it has been much disputed how many should be allowed in the day. Some physicians have considered one, others two, three, or even five necessary. It is, perhaps, im- possible to lay down a general rule that shall apply to eveiy particular case. In some persons the food rarely remains longer than three hours in the stomach ; in others four, five, or even six hours. It is evident that the repetition of the meals ought to be regulated by this cir- cumstance, always avoiding the extremes of long fasting and repletion. Some nations havo been satisfied with one meal a day; but the stomach would thus be oppressed with too large a quantity, and in the interval would suffer froni the want of some nourishment in it. Such a plan, therefore, is neither calculated for per- sons of robust health, and who are engaged in much bodily exertion, and consequently require large supplies, nor for those of a weak habit, who are not able either to take or to digest such a quantity of aliment in a single meal as will be sufficient to supply the waste of the body during twenty-four hours. Celsus recommends the healthy to take food twice in tlie day rather than once; and Sanctorius says that the body becomes more heavy and uneasy after six pounds taken at one meal than after eight taken at three, and that he who makes but one meal in the day, let him eat much or little, is pursuing a system that must ultimately injure him. An invalid may safely take three frugal meals; or, on some occasions, even four, provided a certain quantity of exercise be insisted upon. It is reported that, when Alexander the Great turned away his cooks on proceeding upon a march, he observed that he had no further occasion for such assistants, as he can-ied with him superior cooks—a long morning's journey to create an appetite for his dinner, and a frugal dinner to give a relish to his supper. Quality of the different Meals. Break- fast is, perhaps, the most natural and not the least important of our meals; for, as many hours must have intervened since the last meal, the stomach ought to be in a condition to receive a fresh supply of aliment. As all the food in the body has during the night been digested, \ye might presume that a person in the morningME A t 197 1 ME A OTigTit to feel an appetite on rising. This, how- ever, is not always the fact. The gastric juice does not appear to be secreted in any quantity during sleep, while the muscular energies of the stomach, although invigorated by repose, are liot immediately called into action. It is, there- fore, advisable to allow an interval to pass before we commence the meal of breakfast. We seem to depart more from the custom of our hardy ancestors with regard to breakfast than any other meal, A maid of honour in the court of Elizabeth breakfasted upon beef, and drank ale after it; while the sportsman, and even the day labourer of the present day, frequently breakfasts upon tea. The periods of their meals, however, were so generally different from those of modern times, that we cannot establish any useful comparison between them without taking into consideration the collateral circumstances which must have influenced their operation. The solidity of oar breakfast should be regu- lated by the labour and exercise to be taken, and by the time of dining. Where the dinner hour is late we should recommend a mora nu- tiitious meal, in order to supersede the necessity of a luncheon, or what the French call un dejmner a la fvurchette. At the same time, it must be remembered that dyspeptic invalids are frequently incommoded by such a repast if it be copious. Heartburn is a common effect of a heavy breakfast, especially if it be accompanied with much diluting liquid ; and a question has consequently arisen as to the propriety of taking much fluid on these occasions. Some have re- commended a dry breakfast as peculiarly whole- some ; and we have been told that the celebrated Marcus Antoninus made a rule to eat a hard biscuit the moment he got up. It will not be difficult to show the reasons why liquids are essentially necessary at this meal. To say no- thing of the instinctive desire which we all feel for them, it is evident that there is a certain acrimony and rankness in all our secretions at that time; the breath has frequently a peculiar taint in tlie morning, which is not perceptible at subsequent periods of the day. This may be explained by the loss which the fluids of the body have sustained by perspiration, as well as by the quality of newly elaborated matter intix>- duced into the circulation during sleep. The experiments of Sanctorius have fully demon- strated the superior power of sleep in promoting the perspiration, insomuch that a person sleep- ing healthfully, and without any unnatural means to promote it, will, in a given space of time, perspire insensibly twice as much as when awake. This fact is sufficient to prove the necessity of a liquid breakfast. A person who has not strong powers of digestion is frequently distressed by the usual association of tea with bread and butter, or, what is more injurious, with hot buttered toast or muffins, the oily part of which is separated by the heat of the liquid, and remains in the stomach, producing on its cardiac orifice an irritation which occasions the sensation of heartburn. On such occasions we recommend dry toast without any addition. New bread or spongy rolls should be carefully avoided. Tea to many persons is a beverage which contains too little nutriment: barley water or a thin gruel is a very useful substitute. Hard eggs, although they require a long period for their digestion, are not generally offensive to the stomach; they may, therefore, be taken with propriety whenever, from necessity or choice, the dinner is appointed at a late season. Dinner among the Romans was rather consi- dered as a refreshment to prevent faintness than as a meal to convey nourishment. It con- sisted principally of some light repast, without animal food or wine ; but in modern times it is considered the principal meal, at which every species of luxurious gratification is indulged ia. With regard to the proper period at which in- valids should dine, physicians entei-tain but one opinion: it should be in the middle of the day, or about two or three o'clock. Sir A. Car?isle has justly observed that it is thus best adapted to the decline of animal vigour, because it affords a timely replenishment before the evening waning of the vital powers, and which naturally precedes the hour of rest; besides which the custom tends to pi-event intemperance; while late hours and a consequent state of ex- haustion demand, or seem to justify, an exces- sive indulgence in strong drinks, and in variety of food. The exact period, however, of dinner must be directed by the physician with refer- ence to the necessary habits of his patient, the nature and time of his breakfast, and, above all, to the rapidity or slowness of his digestion. Tea. There is no subject which has occa- sioned a greater controversy amongst dietetic writers than the subject of tea. By one party it is decried as a poison ; by another it is extolled as a medicine, and a valuable addition to our food ; while some refer all its benefittial efTects to the water thus introduced into the system, and its evil consequences to the high tempera- ture at which it is drunk. In order to under- stand the value of the different arguments which have been adduced in support, or to the disparagement of this beverage, it will be neces- sary to inquire into its composition. Two kinds of tea are imported into this country, distin- guished by the epithets black and green. Both contain astringent and narcotic principles, but in very different proportions, the latter pro-L 198' ] ME A ME A ducing by far tlie most powerful influence upon the nervous system. As the primary operation of every narcotic is stimulant, tea is found to ex- hilarate and refresh us, although there exist individuals who are so morbidly sensible to the action of certain bodies of this class, that feel- ings of depression, accompanied with various nervous sensations and an unnatural vigilance, follow the potation of a single cup of strong tea ; while others experience, from the same cause, symptoms indicative of derangement of the digestive organs; but these are exceptions from which no general rule ought to be deduced. The salubrity of the infusion to the general mass of the community is established by suffi- cient testimony to outweigh any argument founded on individual cases. It must, however, be admitted that, if this beverage be taken too soon after dinner, the digestion of the meal may be disturbed by the distention it will occasion, as well as by its influence as a diluent; the nar- cotic and astringent principles may also operate in arresting chymification ; but when a physi- cian gives it his sanction it is with the under- standing that it shall be taken in moderate quantities, and at appointed seasons. When drunk four hours after the principal meal it will assist the ulterior stages of digestion, and pro- mote the insensible perspiration, while it will afford to the stomach a grateful stimulus after its labours. In enumerating the advantages of tea it must not be forgotten that it has in- troduced and cherished a spirit of sobriety; and it must have been remarked by every physician of general practice, that those persons who dis- like tea frequently supply its place with spirits and water. The addition ot milk certainly diminishes the astringency of tea; that of sugar may please the palate, but cannot modify the virtues of the infusion. Supper. In the time of Elizabeth the nobi- lity and gentry were accustomed to dine at eleven, to sup between five and six, and to go to bed at ten. It is, therefore, evident that any argument in favour of this meal, founded upon the healthy condition of our ancestors, must be fallacious. By supper, in modern times, we understand a late meal just before bedtime; but, as sleep is not favourable to every stage of digestion, it is veiy questionable whether re- tiring to rest with a full stomach can, under any circumstances, be salutary. During the first part of the process, or that of chymification, a person so situated may, perhaps, sleep quietlj', unless, indeed, the morbid distention of the stomach should impede respiration and occasion distress; but when the food has passed out of the stomach, and the processes of chylification and sanguification have been established, the natural propensity of the body is for activity, and the invalid awakes at this peiiod, and remains in a feverish state for some hours. Upon this general principle, then, suppers are to be avoided ; that is to say, hearty suppers, which require the active powers of the stomach for their digestion. The same objection cannot be urged against a light repast, which is gene- rally useful to dyspeptics; and it has been truly and facetiously observed that " some invalids need not put on their nightcaps if they do not first bribe their stomachs to good behaviour." An egg lightly boiled, or a piece of dry toast, with a small quantity of white wine negus, will often secure a tranquil night, which would otherwise be passed with restlessness. Amongst the intellectual part of the community there has ever existed a strong predilection in favour of suppers. The labour of the day has been performed, the hour is sacred to conviviality, and the period is one which is not likely to be interrupted by the calls of business. To those in health such indulgences may be occasionally allowed; but the physician should be cautious how he gives his sanction to their wholesome- ness. The hilarity which is felt at this period of the day must not be received as a signal for repairing to the banquet, but as an indication of the sanguification of the previous meal.— {Dr. Paris.) MEASLES. The measles, like other fevers, are pi-eceded by alternate fits of beat and cold, with sickness and loss of appetite. The tongue is white, but generally moist. There is a short cough, a heaviness of the head and eyes, drowsiness, and a running at the nose. Sometimes, indeed, the cough does not come before the eruption has appeared. There is an inflammation and heat in the eyes, accompanied with a defluxion of sharp rheum, and great acuteness of sensation, so that they cannot bear the light without pain. The eye- lids frequently swell so as to occasion blindness. The patient generally complains of his throat, and a vomiting or looseness often precedes the eruption. The stools in children are commonly greenish ; they complain of an itching of the skin, and are remarkably peevish. Bleeding at the nose is common both before and in the progress of the disease. About the fourth day small spots, resembling flea-bites, appear, first upon the face, then upon the breast, and afterwards on the ex- tremities : these may be distinguished from the small pox by their scarcely rising above the skin. The fever, cough, and difficulty of breathing, instead of being removed by the eruption, as in the small pox, are rather in- creased ; but the vomiting generally ceases. About the sixth or seventh day from the time of sickening the measles begin to turnME A j:j e a [ l«0 ] pale on the face, and afterwards upon the body, so that by the ninth day they entirely disappear. The fever, however, and difficulty of breathing, often continue, especially if the patient has been kept npon too hot a regimen. Petechiae, or purple spots, may likewise be occasioned by this error. A violent looseness sometimes succeeds the measles, in which case the patient's life is in imminent danger. Such as die of the measles generally expire about the ninth day from the invasion, and are commonly carried off by a peripneumony, or inflammation of the lungs. The most favourable symptoms are a mode- rate looseness, a moist skin, and a plentiful discharge of urine. When the eruption suddenly falls in, and the patient is seized with a delirium, he is in the greatest danger. If the measles turn too soon of a pale colour it is an unfavourable symptom, as are also great weakness, vomiting, restlessness, and difficulty of swallowing. Pur- ple or black spots appearing among the measles are very unfavourable. When a continual cough, with hoarseness, succeeds the disease, there is reason to suspect an approaching con- sumption of the lungs. Our business in this disease is to assist nature, by proper cordials, in throwing out the eruption, if her efforts be too languid; but when they are too violent they must be restrained by evacuations, cool diluting liquors, &c. We ought likewise to endeavour to appease the most urgent symptoms, as the cough, restlessness, and difficulty of breath- ing. Treatment. The cool regimen is necessary here as well as in the small pox. The food, too, must be light, and the drink diluting. Acids, however, do not answer so well in the measles as in the small pox, as they tend to exasperate the cough. Small beer, likewise, though a good drink in the small pox, is here improper. The most suitable liquors are de- coctions of liquorice with marsh-mallow roots and sarsaparilla, infusions of linseed or of the flowers of elder, balm tea, clarified whey, barley water, and such-like. These, if the patient be costive, may be sweetened with honey; or, if that should disagree with the stomach, a little manna may occasionally be added to them. The measles being an inflammatory disease, without any critical discharge of matter, as in the small pox, bleeding is commonly necessary, especially when the fever runs high, with diffi- culty of breathing and great oppression of the breast; but if the disease be of a mild kind bleeding may be omitted. Bathing the feet and legs frequently in luke- warm water both tends to abate the violence of the fever and to promote the eruption. The patient is often greatly relieved by vomit- ing. Wlien there is a tendency this way it ought to be promoted by drinking lukewarm water or weak camomile tea. When the cough is very troublesome, with dryness of the throat and difficulty of breath- ing, the patient may hold his head over the steam of warm water, and draw the vapour into his lungs. He may likewise lick a little spermaceti and sugar candy pounded together ; or take now and then a spoonful of the oil of sweet almonds, with sugar candy dissolved in it, which will soften the throat and relieve the tickling cough ; or the following demulcent pectoral:— Take almond mixture, 5ozs.; nitrate of potash, 15 grains; syrup of poppies, drachm. Mix, and let the patient take a dessert-spoonful when the cough is troublesome. If at the turn of the disease the fever assumes new vigour, and there appears great danger of suffocation, the patient must be bled according to his strength, and a blister applied, with a view to prevent the load from being thrown on the lungs, where, if an inflammation should fix itself, the patient's life will be in imminent danger. In case the measles should disappear suddenly, or before the proper time, it will be necessary to pursue the same method as is recommended when the small pox re- cedes. The patient must be supported with wine and cordials. Blisters must be applied to the legs and arms, and the body rubbed all over with warm flannels. Warm poultices may likewise be applied to the feet and palms of the hands, and diaphoretics, such as these; — Take antimonial powder, 6 grains. Make a powder,- to be given every three, four, or six hours. Or, take spirit of nitric ether, 2 drachms; solution of acetated ammonia, 6 drachms ; mint water, 5 ozs.; syrup of saffron, 3 drachms. Mix. Two table-spoonsful to be taken frequently. When inflammation attacks the chest a warm bath strongly impregnated with salt has been found a powerful subsidiary remedy, in addition to blood-letting. If the symptoms manifest a tendency to a putrid or malignant form of disease they must be treated accordingly, as directed in slow nervous (typhus) fever. When purple or black spots appear the patient's drink should be sharpened with spirits of vitriol; and if the putrid symptoms increase the Peruvian bark must be administered. See Small Pox.[ 200 ] M E A ME A Opiates are sometimes necessary, and slioulJ te given, combined with some saline diaphoretic, at bedtime ; but they should never be given except in cases of extreme restlessness, a violent looseness, or when the cough is very trouble- some. For children the syrup of poppies is sufficient. A tea-spoonful or two may be occa- sionally given, according to the patient's age or the violence of the symptoms. During the whole course of the disease it will be highly proper to keep the body open ; and therefore, if costiveness exist, it should be obviated by cooling laxatives, such as the neutral salts and emollient clysters. Where the difficulty of breathing and oppression at the chest are not relieved by bleeding and other antiphlogistic means, a blister may be applied in the neighbourhood of the part, or between the shoulders. In removal of local inflammation a blister often proves a valuable remedy. After the measles are gone off the patient ought to be purged. See Small Pox. If a violent looseness succeed the measles it may be checked by taking for some days a gentle dose of rhubarb in the morning, and an opiate overnight, or by the use of other as- tringents, such as this :—Take chalk mixture, 6 ozs.; syrup of poppies, 6 drachms. Make a mixture. Two table-spoonsful to be taken after every liquid stooL If these do not re- move it bleeding will seldom fail to have that effect. Patients recovering after the measles should be careful what they eat or drink. Their food for some time ought to be light, and in small quantities; and their drink diluting, and rather of an opening nature, as buttermilk, whey, and such-like. They ought also to beware of exposing themselves too soon to the cold air, lest a suffocating catarrh, an asthma, or a consumption of the lungs should ensue. Should a cough, with difficulty of breathing, and other symptoms of a consumption, remain after the measles, small quantities of blood may be frequently let at proper intervals, as the patient's strength and constitution will permit. The camphor mixture, combined with a fourth part of the water of acetated ammonia, forms a -veiy useful medicine in that particular species of consumption which frequently succeeds the measles. He ought likewise to drink asses' milk, to remove to a free air if in a large town, and to ride daily on horseback. He must keep strictly to a diet consisting of milk and vegetables ; and, lastly, if these do not succeed, let him remove to a warmer climate. MEASUREMENT FOR CLOTHING. To iu'^ure a correct fit it is necessary to give the measure in half inches, and state whether the party is upright or inclined to stoop. Tho height is also a good guide. DIRECTIOSS FOE COATS. From 1 jit neck to 2 at waist ,.,, 2 to 3 for loncth of coiit Contro of back at 4 to elbow at 5 . Continue on to 6 for lengtli of arm Kound the mnscle of arm above the elbow Round the same below the elbow Kountl the wrist at fixture 6 Round the chest, under the coat. Round the chest, over the coat .. Round the waist, under the coat. Round the waist, over the coat.. VESTS. From 1 at neck to the length re- quired in front Round the chest Round the waist TROUSERS. From the top of the tronsers to the length required at B From A between the legs to B .. Round the waist, under the waist- coat Round the leg at A Round the knee Round the foot at E MEASURE FOR HAT. The number of inches round the outside of hat MEASURES. Imperial Measure. By the Act 5th Geo. IV. cap. 74 it is enacted, " That the straight line or distance between the centres of the two points in the gold studs in the straight brass rod, now in the custody of the clerk of the House of Commons, whereon the words and figures ' standard yard, 1760,' are engi-aved, shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be, the original and genuine standard of that measure of length or lineal extension called a yard ; and that the same straight line or distance between the centres of the said two points in the said gold studs in the said brass rod, the brass being at the temperature of 62" of Fahrenheit's thennometer, shall be, and is hereby denominated, the ' imperial standard yard ;' and shall be, and is hereby declared to be, the unit or only standard measure of exten- sion, wherefrom or whereby all other measures of extension whatsoever, whether the same be lineal, superficial, or solid, shall be derived, computed, and ascertained ; and that all mea- sures of length shall be taken in parts or multiples, or certain proportions of the said standard yard; and that one-third part of the said standard yard shall be a foot, and the twelfth part of such foot shall be an inch; and that the pole or perch in length shall contain 5^ such yards, the furlong 220 such yards, and the mile 1760 such yards. " And whereas it is expedient that the said standard yard, if lost, destroyed, defaced, or otherwise injured, should be restored of the same length, by reference to some invariable natural standard : and whereas it has been ascertained by the commissioners appointed by his Mrtjesty to inquire into the subject of weights and measures, that the said yard.MEA MEA [ 201 ] hereby declared to be the imperial standard yard, when compared with a pendulum vibrating seconds of mean time in the latitude of London, in a vacuum at the level of the sea, is in the proportion of thirty-six inches to thirty-nine inches and one thousand three hundred and ninety-three ten-thousandth parts of an inch (36 : 39'1393); be it therefore enacted and de- clared, that if at any time hereafter the said imperial standard yard shall be lost, or shall be in any manner destroyed, defaced, or otherwise injured, it shall and may be restored by making, under the direction of the Lord High Treasurer, or the Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or any three of them, for the time being, a new standard yard, beai'ing the same proportion to such pendulum as aforesaid, as the said imperial standard yard bears to such peudulum. " And be it further enacted, that from and after the first day of May, 1825, the standard measure of capacity, as well for liquids as for dry goods not measured by heaped measure, shall be the gallon, containing ten pounds avoirdupois weight of distilled water weighed in air, at the temperature of 62° Fahr., the barometer being at thirty inches ; and that a measure shall be forthwith made of brass, of such contents as aforesaid, under the directions of the Lord High Treasurer, or the Commis- sioners of his Majesty's Treasury of the United Kingdom, or any three or more of them, for the time being; and such brass measure shall be, and is hereby declared to be, the imperial standard gallon, and shall be, and is hereby declared to be, the unit and only standard measure of capacity, from which all other measures of capacity to be used, as well for wine, beer, ale, spirits, and all sorts of liquids, as for dry goods not measured by heaped mea- sure, shall be derived, computed, and ascer- tained ; and that all measures shall be taken in parts or multiples, or certain proportions of the said imperial standard gallon; and that the quart shall be the fourth part of such standard gallon, and the pint shall be one-eighth of such standard gallon, and that two such gallons shall be a peck, and eight such gallons shall be a bushel, and eight such bushels a quarter of corn or other dry goods not measured by heaped measure." And by the act passed in September, 1835 fSth & 6th William IV. cap 63), it is enacted, " That from and after the passing of this act the measuie called the Winchester bushel, and the lineal measure called the Scotch ell, and all local or customary measures, shall be abo- lished ; and every person who shall sell by any denomination of measure other than one of the imperial measures, or some multiple, or some aliquot part, such as half, the quarter, the eighth, the sixteenth, or the thirty-second parts thereof, shall, on conviction, be liable to a penalty not exceeding the sum of forty shillings for every such sale: provided always that nothing herein contained shall prevent the sale of any articles in any vessel, where such vessel is not represented as containing any amount of imperial measure, or of any fixed, local, or customary measure heretofore in use." In the adoption of the new imperial measure there is no exception made for medicines, as in the case of weights; and the use of any other than the imperial measure is, therefore, illegal in the sale of these as well as every other article of commerce. LONG MEASUEE. 1 inch 12= 1 foot. 36= 3 = 1 vard. 72= 6 = 2=1 fathom. 19y= 16i= >>i= 1 po'e, perch, or rod. 7920= 660 = 220 = 40= 1 iuilong. 63360= 52H0 =1700 =320= 8 = 1 mile. 190080=1584.0 =5230 =960=24=3 = 1 league. CORK MEASURE. 1 pint. 2= 1 quart. 4= 2= 1 pottle. 8= 4= 2= I gallon. 16= 8= 4= 2= 1 peck. 04= 32= 16= 8= 4= 1 bushel. 512= 256= 128= 64= 32= 8= 1 quarter. 2560=1280= 640=320=160=40= 6= 1 load, wey, orton. 5120=2560 = 1280=640=320=80=10=2=] last. The gallon of this measure contains 268-S cubic inches, and the bushel, which was called the Winchester bushel, 2150-42 cubic inches. ALE AND BEER MEASURE. 1 pint. 2= 1 quart. 8= 4= 1 gallon. 288 = 144= 36 = 1 barrel. 432 = 216= 54 = 11 = 1 hngshead. 576 = 288= 72 = 2 = 1 J = l pimeheon, 864=432=108 = 3 =2 =1^=1 butt. 1728=864=208=6 =4 =31=2=1 tun. The gallon of this measure contains 282 cubic inches. WINE MEASURE. 1 pint. 2= 1 quart. 8= 4= 1 gallon. 330= 168= 42=1 tierce. 504= 252= 03=1-1=1 hogshead. 672= 330= 84=2 =1§ = 1 puncheon. 1008= 504=126=3 =2 =li=l pipe or butt. 2016 = 1008=252=6 =4 =3 =2=1 tun. The gallon of this measure contains 231 cubic inches. The wine gallon and ale gallon have the same proportion to each other that the troy pound and avoirdupois pound have.ME A [ 20-?. ] ME A IMPEniAL MEASURE. Equivalents in Eqiiivalenta in Avoirdupois weight. Troy weight. Of distilled water at 62° Fahrenheit. OLD FKENCU MEASURES OF CAPACITY, 1 pint - 2= 1 quart 3= 4= 1 gallon - - 10- 16= 8= y= 1 peek - - 20- ei= 32= 8= 4=1 bushel - 80- S12=25C = 04 = 32=8 = 1 quarter 640- 1- 25 lb. 2- 0 „ 8750 grs. 17500 „ 70000 „ 140000 „ 560000 „ 4480000 „ APOTHECARrES' MEASURE. {Adopted by the London and Edinburgh Colleges.) 1 minim . . - 60= ) fluid dracbm 480= 8= 1 fluid ounce {)(il)(l= 160= 20=1 pint 70800=1280=160=8 = 1 gallon Equivalents m Troy grains. 0-91 54-7 . 437-5 . 8750- . 70000- Relation between the Old, or Wine Measure, formerly used in Medicine, and the New, or Imperial Measure;— 1 gallon I quart 1 pint 16 ounces 1 ounce 1 rallon 1 quart 1 pint 16 ounces 1 ounce WINE MEASURE. Fqiiivalents in cubic ittchee. = 231- = ,57-75 = 28 875 = 28-875 = 1-8046 Equivalents in Troy grains ot Hisrilled water at 62° Falir. = 58317-798 = 14579-4405 7289 7-2475 = 7289-72475 455-6075 IMPERIAL MEASURE. Equivalents in Troy Equivaipnts in grains of distilled cubic inches. water at 62° Fahr. 277-274 60-3)85 34-65925 27-72740 1-73296 70000 17500 8750 7000 437 5 Poisson 3-631 English cubic inches. Paris pint 58-145 °, „ Litron 49 617 „ „ Boisseau 793-856 „ „ Minot 1-378 cubic feet Mine 2-750 „ Seller 5-51-2 „ Muid 60 140 „ To reduce the Paris pint to the English im-A perial pint, divide by - - - •[_ j^.g-.^ To convert the English imperial pint to the [ Paris pint, multiply by ... -J 618 NEW FRENCH MEASURES, CALLED THE METRICAL OR DECIMAL MEASURES. The use of any other measures but these was made illegal by the law passed in 1837, and which came into operation in January, 1840. FRENCH MEASURES OF EXTENSION. {The French measure being at 32° Fahr., and the English at 62° Fahr.) The weight of 1 cubic inch of distilled water weighed in air at 62° Fahr. is 252-458 troy grains. FOEEIGN MEASURES. OLD FRENCH MEASURE, CALLED PAP.IS LONO MKASUHE, The French toise - - = 6-3945 English feet. The Paris ro^al foot of 12 inches - - - =12-7895 English inches. The inch - - - = 1 0657 „ „ T)ie line, orl-12th ofaninch= -0888 „ „ The l-12tli of a line - = -0074 „ „ To reduce Paris feet or inches into English,'\ multiply by - - . . - .1 To convert English feet or inches into Paris. [ divide by j To reduce Paris cubic feet or inches to^ English, multiply by ... . To convert En>?lish cubic feet or inches to Paris, divide by - - - . . Millimetre Centimfetre = Decimetre = Metre = Decametre - 1-005977 1-211278 English inches. -03937 -39371 3-93710 1 39-37100 Kilometre = Myriametre = =303710 00000 es. furls. yards. fept. inches. 0 0 1 0 3 7 0 0 10 2 9 7 0 0 109 1 1 0 4 213 1 10-3 6 1 150 0 6 galls, pts, ozs. drs. FRENCH MEASURES OF CAPACITY. Entclish Apothecaries* Hfeasure English cubic inches. Milhtre - - -0610 10 3 Centilitre - - -6103 2 42 Decilitre - - 6-10'<!8 3 3 2 Litre - - - 61-028 1 15 1 43 Decalitre - - 610-28 2 1 13 1 16 Hectolitre- - 6102-8 92 0 1 4 48 Kilolitre - - 610-28- 220 0 12 6 24 Myrialitre - - 610280- 2200 7 13 4 48 MEAT: To Keep Hot. If your meat is done before you are ready to serve, take it up, set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it so as not to toach the meat, and then put a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. MEAT : To Remove Taint from. To remove taint from meat wash it several times in cold water; then put it into plenty of cold water, into which throw several pieces of red-hot char- coal. If you fear meat will not keep till the time it is wanted par-roast or parboil it; that is, partly cook it. It will then keep two days longer, when it may be dressed as usual, but in rather less time. MEAT CAKES. Take whatever meat, game or poultry you may chance to have (it is the better for being underdone); mince it finely, addhig a little fat bacon, ham, or anchovy, andME A MEL' [ 203 ] season with a little pepper and salt; mix the whole well together, and make it into small cakes about three inches in length, an inch and a half in width, and half an inch thick. Fry them of a light bi'own, and serve them with good gravy; or put the mixture into a mould, and boil or bake it. MEAT PATTIES. The tins should be about the size of a small tea-cup, but not so deep. Lay puff paste at the bottom, put in some forcemeat, and cover it with puff paste. Bake the patties a light brown, and turn them out. Five or seven make a side dish. MEDICINE, GIVING TO CHILDREN. Mrs. Paikes justly observes that the chief diffi- culties in nursing sick children are the impossi- bility of particularly ascertaining the symptoms of their indisposition, and also the trouble of administering medicine to them. In infancy the former difficulty is unavoidable, but the latter is frequently owing to early mismanage- ment. We have known children upon whom hours of entreaty were wasted in persuading them to take a dose of medicine, and even then without success until some bribe had been added ; while other children, merely to obtain their mother's approbation, and with no other reward than this, except, perhaps, the additional privilege of breakfasting with her on the morn- ing on which the physic was to be taken, have swallowed it down as soon as it was presented to them. It is the early subjection of a child's will to that of his parents which renders his management easy either in sickness or in health. There have been instances of children falling a sacrifice to their own wilfulness in refusing to take medicines when it has been absolutely necessary. To prevent this a spoon has been invented, by which medicine in a flaid form can easily be administered to any child. The bowl of this spoon is about the size of a dessert- spoon, but I'ather longer in the lip ; it has a short hollow handle, which has an oj)ening both into the bowl of the spoon and at the opposite extremity. A lid, which opens with a hinge, covers the spoon, except near the lip, where a space is left to allow the contents of the spoon to be pouied out. In using it the lid is raised to admit the dose of medicine to be poured into it, after which it is closely shut down, and the effect is such that, when a finger is pressed upon the open extremity of the handle, scarcely any of the liquid escapes, in whatever position the spoon is held. After the spoon is filled it should be held firmly in the right hand, the middle finger of which must press upon and close the orifice at the end of the handle. The child should then be laid backward on the knee, his head reclining on the left arm; and, as soon as the spoon is fairly in the mouth, let .* be pressed down upon the tongue, when, by re- moving the finger from the opening of the handle, the whole dose will be suddenly pro- jected into the stomach of the child. MELANCHOLY, another form of mono- mania, is a disease of mature age, and rarely affects young and athletic persons. It is also generally characterised by a peculiar appear- ance, and particularly by black hair and eyes— by a striking cast of countenance, as the com- plexion is either yellow, brown, or blackish. This is to be ascribed to a sluggishness and torpor of the cutaneous system, and, in con- sequence, the impressions of cold and heat are scarcely noticed, and sometimes not heeded. The physiognomy is wrinkled and languid, yet sometimes the muscles of the face become con- vulsively tense, and the countenance is full of fire. The pupils of the eye are dilated, and that organ has a peculiarly dull, muddy look, rolling heavily on surrounding objects if it can be roused to move at all; but ordinarily it is fixed with an unmeaning stare on vacancy. The adnata is commonly painted with a dull purplish red, sometimes on a deep orange - coloured ground, and this especially when advancing age and hepatic affections exist, or intemperance has long preceded the attack. Holding a strong light near the eyes produces a very transient effect. Pain is said by some recovered patients to have preceded the attack—sometimes fixed, but more commonly wandering ; and the suffering by this is extreme. Great apprehension, which, indeed, is a characteristic of melancholy, ensues, and plunges the sufferer into the most gloomy state of mind, accompanied by indifference as to his personal comfort, or urging him forcibly to self-destruction, or to the murder of others. The state of reverie and delusive ideas gradu- ally becomes more fixed, and the thoughts are concentrated on one mournful topic, until finally he is, as it were, inanimate, motionless, and speechless. A fixed position of the body is a very common attendant. In one instance that occurred to Dr. Rush the patient sat with his body bent forward for three years without moving, except when compelled by force or the calls of nature. In another the sufferer occu- pied a spot in a ward, an entry, or in the hos- pital yard, where he appeared more like a statue than a man. Such was the torpor of his nervous system, that a degree of cold so intense as to produce inflammation and gangrene upon his face and limbs did not move him from the stand he had taken in the open air. The pulse is extremely vacillating, and gene- rally slow and feeble, yet with all this has a[ 204 ] MEL MEM labouring feel, not accompanied witli a bold tlirob, but as though difficulty attended every exertion. A sort of ticking movement is some- times observed, which is often intermitting, giving from one hundred to one hundred and thirty strokes in a minute. Tlie skin is dry and burning, while the ex- tremities are cold and bathed in a clammy sweat. With these, transient purple-coloured flushings of the face are sometimes an att-endant. The tongue is usually of a brownish yellow colour, furred, and has intensely purple-red edges. Constipation is a very common symptom, ac- companied with flatus and eructation ; and diarrhcea is uncommon except the disease is about to undergo a salutary change. The urine is pale, thin, and cloudless, unless it be mor- bidly retained, which some do for several days. The thirst is usually great, and a peculiar odour is perceptible from their bodies. Watchfulness is also common in this form of disease; and sleep, when it is pi'esent, is often broken by nocturnal visions or frightful dreams. On objects not relating to the subject or passion which characterises the delusion they sometimes reason and act rightly, and often with great force and subtilt}'; but this is far from being invariable. The mind cannot be deemed sound even when exercised on points disconnected from the particular hallucination, and it is A^ery common that this absorbs the whole attention. There are very few melancholies whose de- Urium is not exasperated every two days; many have a strongly marked remission in the eyen- ing, and after meals ; others are exasperated at the beginning of the day or at evening. Has- 1am also observes that the symptoms are aggra- vated by being placed in a recumbent posture ; and patients, when in the raving state, seem of themselves to avoid the horizontal position as much as possible, and, when so confined that they cannot be erect, will keep themselves seated upon the breech. This remark applies equally to mania and monomania, MELKSHAM is a pleasant town on the high road between London and Bath. It is distant about ninety-seven miles from the former, and eleven miles from the latter place. The scenery around is extremely iuteresting, and the air highly favourable to the recovery of the valetudinarian. Although the town does not at present possess the splendid edifices of long-established watering-places, yet by its baths for hot, tepid,-and cold bathing, its beau- tiful and newly-erected lodging-houses near the Spa, and other increasing accommodations, it gives every promise that it will, in a few years, rival them in all desirable conveniences. Melk- sham possesses, besides a chalybeate spring, two wells, called the Old Spa and the New Spa. These hold in solution the same salts, but the Old Spa contains a larger proportion of them than the New Spa. According to the analj^sis by Dr. Gibbes their ingredients are muriate of soda, muriate of magnesia, muriate of lime, and the carbonate of lime, magnesia, and iron. The Melksham water is, therefore, aperient and tonic, possess- ing the active properties of the Cheltenham water. It will be found serviceable in the cui-e of scrofula, indigestion, bilious and cutaneous disorders, female diseases, and other maladies dependent on a depraved state of the alimentary canal and the organs connected with it. The dose is from half a pint to a pint, according to the constitution of the invalid. A course of it may be persevered in without interruption for a considerable length of time, even in states of apparently gi'eat prostration of strength, without producing any inconvenience to the system. Regular habits of life and daily exercise in the open air will greatly contribute to the beneficial effects of this water. MEMORY. All sorts of irregular living, late hours, and debauchery, and particularly in- attention to the standard rules of good living, as laid down in this work, impair the memory. Nobody who indulges in any or all of these has the least right to complain of a weak or a bad memory, as he is himself the plain cause of its destruction. Another common cause of weak memory, among those who are much employed at the desk, is long hours and hard study, by which not only the nerves are impaired, but what is still worse, the stomach is injured, and cannot prepare a due portion of nourishing blood to keep up the vigour of the nerves. The state of the head has very considerable influence on the memory. The briskness or slowness of the current of blood in the brain affects the powers of the mind in waking and in sleep, and this has precisely a similar effect on the memory. If the blood flow slowly and sluggishly through the brain the memory will be bad; if it flow briskly the memory will be clear and ready; and in pro- portion as the current of blood verges to one or other of these states will the memory partake of the circumstances attending these states, and be either bright or cloudy. Our attention then, in endeavouring to improve the memory, must be primarily directed to the current of blood through the brain. The follow- ing medicine for improving the memoiy has been famous from remote antiquity :—Take a table-spoonful of tincture of hyssop, and a single drop of oil of cinnamon. Mix, and put intoMER [ 905 ] MER your last cup of tea morning and evening. As the virtue lies in the hyssop, those who take this for tea, instead of the tea of the shops, will, we have no doubt, find its advantage. MERCURY, or Quicksilver, is a metal some of the preparations of which are eminently powerful in promoting perspiration. We may as well combine our notes relative to it both as a metal and the base of medicinal preparations. Mercury, or hydragyros, was known to the Romans, and Pliny describes it as " like silver in colour, and like water in fluidity," when ex- tracted by heat from "minium," well known to us as cinnabar. This minium was then, as it still is, obtained from the mines of Almaden, in Spain; but our chief supply at present is from South America. The quicksilver mine of Guanca Velica, in Peru, is 170 fathoms in circumference, and 480 deep. In this profound abyss are seen streets, squares, and a chapel where religious mysteries on all festivals are celebrated. Thousands of flambeaux are continually burning to enlighten it. The mine generally affects with convulsions those who work in it. Notwithstanding this, the unfortunate victims of an insatiable avarice are crowded together, and plunged naked into these abysses, tyranny having invented this refinement in cruelty to render it impossible for anything to escape its restless vigilance. We see mercury always in a fluid state, because it is so very fusible that a small portion of heat is able to keep it in a state of fluidity; but it is as perfectly opaque as other metals. All metals require different portions of heat to fuse them. Tin melts at 442° and lead at 612° of Fahrenheit; whereas gold requires the heat of 32° of Wedgewood, or 1300° of Fahrenheit, to melt it; and platina cannot be fused by the strongest heat of our best furnaces. Mercury, when submitted to a sufficient degree of cold, is similar in appearance to other metals, and may be beaten into plates. It had been imagined that the liquid state of mercury was essential to it. The contrary was discovered by accident in the year 1759 by Professor Braun, of Petersburg. Being engaged in experiments on the power of freezing mix- tures, and having perceived that one of his thermometers was stationary even after he re- moved it from the mixture, he broke the bulb of the thermometer, and found the mercury completely congealed. Mercury is so volatile that it may he distilled like water. It is sometimes purified in this way from a mixture of other metals, it being often adulterated with lead and bismuth. There is no better way of ascertaining the purity of mercury than by mixing it with an equal weight of iron tilings, and submitting it to distillation. It is also so elastic when in a state of vapour that it is capable of bursting the strongest vessels. M. Hellot, of the Academy of Sciences, was present when a person pretending to fix mer- cury had inclosed some of it in an iron box closely welded. When the mercury was heated it burst the iron, and was dissipated in invisible vapours. The beautiful scarlet pigment called ver- milion is prepared from mercury. It is the red sulphuret of mercury. Europe has hitherto been furnished with it by the Dutch manufac- turers, and of greater beauty than any which has been procured from other markets, though it is said that even this article is infeiior in splendour to that which is manufactured in China. What is imported from thence comes in small papers, and is nearly of the colour of fine lake. Several salts are formed by art with this metal for medicinal purposes, viz., Eeysers pill, which is an acetate of mercury; turbith mineral, a subsulphate of mercury; red precipitate, or oxide by means of the nitric acid; calomel, or mild subchloride of mercury; and corrosive sublimate, which is a chloride. Besides these there is a preparation called precipitate per se, which is a true oxide of the metal; and Ethiops mineral and cinnabar, which are both combina- tions of mercury with sulphur. Sometimes in cases of stoppages in the bowels mercury is administered in its metallic state, in the hope that it will force a passage by its weight. MERIDIAN LINE. It is absolutely neces- sary to find this exactly when fixing a horizon- tal sundial, and the following is a very simple mode :— Let the plane of the pedestal on which the dial is to be fixed be made truly horizontal by a level; then from a point as near the middle as possible describe three or four concentric circles, about a quarter of an inch asunder, making the outermost circle a little less than the plane of the pedestal. Fix a pin or wire perpendicularly in the centre, of such a height that the whole of the shadow may fall within the innermost circle for about two hours before and after noon. The pin in thickness to be about one-eighth of an inch, with a round blunt point at the top. The pin may easily be known when perpendicular by setting one leg of a pair of compasses in several points of a circle, and extending the other to the top of the pin : if the same extent reaches the point from all the places the pin is truly perpendicular. From about eight o'clock in the morning till four o'clock in the afternoon, during which houi-s the extremity of the pin's shadow will fall with- out all the circles, watch the times in the fore-[ 206 ] MID MER noon when the extremity of the shortening shadow just touches the several circles, and there make marks; in the al'ternoon of the same day watch the lengthening shadow, and where its end touches the circles in getting over them, make marks there also. Lastly, with a pair of compasses find exactly the middle point between the two marks on any circle, and draw a line from the centre through that point, which will be the true meridian or twelve o'clock line, and exactly over which that of the dial is to be placed. Several circles are drawn, in case that at one time of the day it shall be clear, and at another cloudy ; and if, therefore, you should lose the time when one point of the shadow would touch one circle, vou may certainly have it in another. MERINGUES. Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a solid froth, then add the rind of six lemons grated extremely fine, and a spoonful of sifted sugar; after which lay a sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a spoon drop the mixture in little lumps separately upon it; sift sugar over, and put tliem to bake in a mode- rately heated oven, taking care that they are done of a nice colour; then put raspberrj', apricot, or any other kind of jam between two of these bottoms, lay them together, and set them in a warm place or before the fire to dry. MERINGUES, ROSE. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs, and then beat in by degrees, a spoonful at a time, 1 lb. or more of finely powdered loaf sugar, till it is of the consistence of very thick icing, or meringue. Have ready a sufficient quantity of freshly gathered rose-buds about half grown, and, having removed the stalks and green leaves, take as many of the buds as will weigh 3 ozs. With a pair of sharp scissors clip or mince them as small as possible into the pan of meringue, stirring them in with a spoon; then stir the whole very hard. Have ready some sheets of white paper laid on baking tins; drop the meringues on it in heaps, all of the same size, and not too close together; smooth them with the back of a spoon or broad knife dipped in cold water, set them in a moderately cool oven, and bake them about twenty minutes. Take out one and try it, and if not thoroughly done let them continue longer in the oven. MESENTERY, in animal economy, signifies that fat membrane, or membranous duplicature, which is situated in the middle of the abdomen, for preventing the intestines from entangling with each other, as they lie in a small compass. It is^ nearly of a circular figure, being about four inches in diameter, but from three to four yards in circumference, on account of its plaits or foldings. The bowels are tied like a border around the mesentery, as the former are from ten to twelve yards in length, according to the size of the individual ; so that to every inch of this circumference there are fastened three inches of the latter. This membrane is by nature designed to support the intestines in their due place, to strengthen them, and to afford a situation to the lacteals, glands, nerves, blood-vessels, &c., which are connected with the bowels. From its im- portant use in the animal system it may be easily conceived that the mesentery is liable to be affected with various diseases, the origin and seat of which are often neither suspected nor clearly understood. It is, however, certain that a disordered state of the mesenteric glands generally lays the foundation of the rickets, scrofula, wens, white swellings, and early con- sumption. Hence the injury done to infants by stuffing them with superfluous or improper food— by allowing children promiscuously to eat cakes, gingerbread, and unripe fruit. One of the most fatal, however, is an inflammation of the mesen- tery and its glands, which, though difficult to ascertain, is not a rare occurrence. It is gene- rally accompanied with costiveness, and always with a retention of urine, but seldom with violent fever or pain; and, on examining the parts affected, there will appear a large swollen belly and a deep-seated tension in the abdomen. Sometimes blood and fetid matter are discharged by stool; and it is remarkable that male chil- dren are more frequently subject to it than those ot the female sex, and that the disorder, un- like other inflammations, may prey on the little patient for weeks before it be discovered, though in acute cases it proves suddenly fatal. As soon as the nature of this dangerous affec- tion is ascertained leeches ought to be applied to the lower belly, and a large blister to the small of the back. Emollient clysters ; fomenta- tions made of an infusion of camomile flowers, with the addition of laudanum ; and the tepid bath will also be of essential service. The patient's regimen and diet should be similar to that for inflammatory fever: he may likewise drink sweet whey with honey, or equal parts of Seltzer water and milk. With a view to check a debilitating looseness, he ought to take decoctions of the salep root, sago, tapioca, &c. METHEGLIN. See Mf.ad. MICE. We believe that pills containing phosphorus are the best poisons to employ for the destruction of these marauders. The fol- lowing mixture also lures and destroys them :— Black hellebore root powdered, 1 oz.; seeds of stavesacre powdered, 1 oz.; oatmeal, 2 lbs.; oil of caraway, 30 drops. Mix, and place little heaps of the powder near their haunts. MIDCALF : To Dress. Stuff a calf's[ 207 ] MIL MIG heart with forcemeat, bake it with little water in the dish, lay some butter over it, and dredge it with flour. Next boil half the liver and all the lights for half an hour; then chop them small, and put them in a tossing pan, with a pint of gravy, a spoonful of lemon pickle, and the same of catsup ; squeeze in half a lemon, and add also some pepper and salt; thicken the whole with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and when you dish it up lay the minced m.eat at the bottom, and have ready fried the other half of the liver cut in slices, with some pieces of bacon. Set the heart in the middle, lay the liver and bacon over the minced meat, and serve it up. MIGNONETTE. A mignonette consists of long pepper, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, coriander, and mace, tied together in a bit of linen cloth. MILDEW. Calico and other white fabrics are liable to become mildewed if kept for any length of time in a damp, dark place. Merely washing will not remove this stain of the minute fungus which is its cause, but it will be effectually taken away if soaked for a few minutes in a weak solution of chloride of lime. {Sfie Bleaching.) If coloured silks become mildewed we know of no remedy; but the mildew will never occur if they are kept in a dry place, and are occasionally exposed to warmth and light. MILIARY FEVER, or Miltaeta, is a fever accompanied with eruptions resembling millet seed. It is distinguished at its commencement by considerable coldness and rigour, succeeded by great heat, much anxiety, and frequent sighing, followed by profuse perspiration of a strong and peculiar smell, preceded by a sense of pricking, as of pins' points in the skin. The eruption appears sooner or later in different persons, but at no determinate period ; first on the neck and breast, in small red pimples, which, in two days, become white vesicles, desquamate, and are succeeded by fresh pim- ples. It affects both sexes, and persons of all ages and constitutions ; but females of a delicate habit are most liable to it, particularly in child- bed. Very violent symptoms, such as coma, delirium, and convulsions, attend occasionally this fever, in which case it sometimes proves fatal. A profuse eruption indicates more diinger than a scanty one; its being steady ig also a more favourable symptom than its fre- quently disappearing and coming out again ; and it is more favourable when the places covered with the eruption appear swelled and stretched than when they remain flaccid. As this disease is generally accompanied with danger the best medical advice should at once be had. It may, however, be useful to observe that, besides the eruption itself, a peculiar symptom in this complaint is the sweating which aiways precedes and accompanies it. It is not, how- ever, contagious, but is, nevertheless, one con- cerning which, as to its nature, veiy different opinions have been formed. From its arising very often in persons who have been previously Aveakened by large evacuations, particularly of blood, there is good ground for concluding that it is one of those numerous diseases of debility which require stimulants for their cure. Indeed, some writers have treated the slow, nervous, and miliary fever under one head, considering the eruption itself as always a symptomatic and accidental affection. The mode of treatment when a physician is not employed may, there- fore, with propriety be the same as that which we have described under Fevek, Simple Con- tinued. MILK is the nutritious secretion formed in the breasts of all mammals for the nourishment of their young, and is also extensively used as an article of food by the greater part of the human family. The kinds of milk usually employed are those of the cow, the goat, the sheep, the mare, and the ass. In this country, however, that of the mare is rarely, if ever, used ; and, as that of the cow is what is almost universally employed, we shall confine our observations to that alone. Of the milk drawn from any cow at one time that part which comes off at the first is always thinner, and of a much worse quality for making butter than that afterwards obtained ; and this richness continues to increase progressively to the very last drop that can be drawn from the udder. Few persons in the country are ignorant that the milk which is taken from the cow last of all at one milking is richer than the rest of the milk, on which account a distinct name has been given to it in various parts of the country. Thus in some places it is called a fterings, because it is usually obtained, when wanted for sick per- sons or other uses, by remilking the cow after the ordinary milking has been finished. In other places it is termed strokings, because it does not come in so full a stream as in the ordinary course of milking, and it is probably known by other names in other parts of the country. This circumstance sufficiently proves that the difference in its quality has been adverted to, although few, perhaps, are aware of the great disproportion subsisting between the quality of the first and that of the last drawn milk from the same cow at one milking. The following facts respecting this important par- ticular were ascertained many years ago, and have been confirmed by numberless subsequent experiments and observations. Having taken several large tea-cups exactly of the same size and shape, one of them wasMIL MIL [ 5iG8 ] Slled at the commencement of the milking of the cow, and the others at regular intervals till the last, which was filled with the dregs of the strokings. A counter-weight being put in for each cup, they were individually weighed, so as to ascertain with precision that the same quan- tity of milk was contained in each cup. From a great number of experiments, frequently re- peated with many different cows, the result was in all cases as follows :—• The quantity of cream obtained from the first-drawn cup was in every case much smaller than that from the milk last drawn, and the milk in the cups intermediately filled afforded less or more cream according as they were nearer the beginning or the end of the milking. It is unnecessary here to enter into details of these intermediate proportions, but it is proper the reader should be informed that the quantity of cream obtained from the last-drawn cup from some cows exceeded that from the first in the proportion of sixteen to one. In other cows, however, and under particular circumstances, the disproportion was not equally great, but in no case did it fall short of the I'atio of eight to one. Probably, on an average of an equal num- ber of cows, it might be found to run at the pro- portion of ten or twelve to one. The circumstance which chiefly occasioned a variation in regard to these proportions ^\&s the nearness to, or the distance from, the time of calving; for in all cases the milk of the same cow was thinner after calving than it was at a greater distance from it, and the disproportion between the first and last drawn was also much greater soon after calving than at a more distant period. As the flush of milk occasioned by that incident abated it genei'ally became thicker and more uniform in quality; so that if, within a fortnight after calving, the proportion of cream from the first and the last-drawn cups was as sixteen to one, it is probable that, at the end of six or nine months, the disproportion in that cow's milk would not be more than as ten or twelve to one. These variations, however, do not take place in the same proportion in every cow. On the contrary, the milk of some cows at all times varies more in this' respect than that of others ; so that in this case, as in most others, the nature of the breed and the individual idiosyncrasy, or peculiar constitution vi tne animal, must both be adverted to before any certain conclusions can be drawn. But if the difference in the quantity of the cream obtained at tlie beginning and at the end of the milking be great, th.e variation in point of the quality of that cream is still greater. In the first drawn cup, especially when the diffei'ence in quantity was very great, the cream upon it was only a thin tough film. In the last-drawn cun it was of a thick butyraceous consistence, and of a glowing richness of colour, which no other kind of cream is ever found to possess. The difference in the quality of the milk which remained after the cream was separated was, perhaps, still greater than respects either the quantity or the quality of the cream. The milk drawn in the first cup was a thin bluish fluid, appearing as if a large proportion of water had been blended with ordinary milk, while that drawn in the last cup was of a thick consistence, yellow colour, and rich taste, more resembling cream than milk in all respects, only sweeter to the taste, and less oily upon the palate. From this experiment it appears that the person who, by bad milking of his cows, loses a little milk, loses much more than is usually suspected; for if he leave behind only half a pint of milk that might have been obtained, he, in fact, loses as much cream as would have been yielded by about six or eight pints at the begin- ning, and loses, besides, that portion of the cream which alone can give richness and high flavour to his butter. If milk be put into a dish, and allowed to stand till it throws up cream, the portion of cream rising first to the surface is richer in quality and greater in quantity than that which rises in a second equal space of time, and the cream which rises in the second interval of time is greater in quantity and richer in quality than that wdiich rises in a third equal space of time. That of the third is greater than that of the fourth, and so of the rest. The cream that rises continues progressively to decrease in quantity and decline in quality so long as any rises to the surface. Experiments in this case not having been conducted with so much accu- racy as the former, the difference in the pro- portion which takes place in equal periods of time has not been ascertained. It is not cer- tain, however, but that a greater quantity of cream may, upon the whole, be obtained from the milk by taking it away at different times; but the process is so troublesome as not to be counterbalanced by the increased quantity ob- tained, if, indeed, any additional quantity be thus obtained, which is not as yet fully ascer- tained ; but, where the quality of the butter is the principal object in view, it may be greatly improved by attending to this peculiarity. Thick milk always throws up a much smaller proportion of the cream which it actually con- tains than milk that is thinner; but that cream is of a richer quality, and, if water be added to that thick milk, it will afford a considerably greater quantity of cream, and consequently more butter, than it would have done if allowed to remain pure, but its quality is at the same time greatly debased.MIL MIL [ -209 ] This fact must have long since been remarked hj every person attentive to a dairy, though no experiment appears to have been made which could ascertain either the precise amount of the increased quantity of cream that might thus be obtained, or of the proportionate decrease in its quality. But the effect of mixing water with the milk in a dairy is thus ascertained, and the knowledge of this fact will enable attentive per- sons to follow that practice which they shall find best calculated to promote their interest. Milk which is put into a bucket or other pro- per vessel, and carried in it to a considerable distance, so as to be much agitated, and in part cooled, before it be put in the milk-pans to settle for cream, never throws up so much or so rich cream as if the same milk had been put into the milk-pans directly after it was milked. The loss of cream will, in this case, be nearly in proportion to the time that has elapsed, and the agitation which it has sustained, after it has been drawn from the cow, though we are not enabled to state from expoMment how much of that loss is to be ascribed to the time and agita- tion, taken separately. The fact, however, is established, and is of such importance that it cannot be made too extensively known. From these fundamental facts respecting the dairy many very important corollaries, serving to direct the practice, may be deduced. Our attention will be given to the following, which, from their peculiar importance, demand a special consideration. Firstly. It is evidently of much importance that the cows should be always milked as near to the dairy as possible, in order to prevent the necessity of carrying and cooling the milk before it is put into the dishes ; and, since cows are materially injured by driving from a distance, it will be of the greatest advantage in a dairy farm to have the principal grass fields as near to the dairy or homestead as possible. In this point of view, the practice of constantly feeding cows in the house must appear obviously superior to that of turning them out to pasture in the field. Secondly. The practice of putting the milk of all the cows of a large dairy into one vessel as it is milked, there to remain until the whole milking is finished, before any part of it is put into the milk-pans, seems to be highly injudicious, on account of the loss sustained by agitation and cooling, but especially because it prevents the dairy owner from distinguishing the good from the bad cows' milk, so as to enable him to form an accurate estimation of the profit he may derive from each. Without this precaution, indeed, the whole of his dairy produce may, for several successive years, be debased by the milk of one bad cow, without being able to detect it. VOL. II. It would, therefore, be a much better practice to put the milk, as soon as possible after it is drawn, into distinct creaming pans, without mixing it with any other; and if these pans were all made of such a size as to be able to contain the whole of one cow's milk, each in a separate pan, the careful dairy-maid would thus be enabled to remark, without any trouble, the quantity of milk afforded by each cow every day, as well as the peculiar qualities of that cow's milk. And if the same cow's milk were always to be placed on the same part of the shelf, having her name written beneath the stand, there never could be the smallest diffi- culty in ascertaining which of the cows it would be the owner's interest to dispose of, and which of them he ought to keep and breed from. Thirdly. If it be intended to make butter of a very fine quality, it will be advisable not only to reject entirely the milk of all those cows which yields cream of a bad quality, but also, in every case, to keep the milk that is first drawn from the cow at each milking entirely separate from that which is last obtained, as the quality of the butter must otherwise be greatly debased, without materially augmenting its quantity. It is also obvious that the quality of the butter will be improved in proportion to the smalluess of the amount of the last-drawn milk that is retained; so that those who wish to be peculiarly nice in this respect will do well to retain, for their best butter, a very small proportion only of the last-drawn milk. It is a matter of some importance to determine in what way the in- ferior milk, which is thus set apart when fine butter is wanted, can be employed with the greatest profit. In the Highlands of Scotland the people have adopted a practice, merely from considerations of convenience and economy, without thinking of the improvement of the butter, which answers many good purposes. As the rearing of calves is there a principal object with the farmer, every cow is allowed to suckle her own calf with a portion of her milk, the remainder only being employed for the purposes of the dairy. To give the calf the proportion allotted to it regularly, it is separated from the cow, and put into a small inclosure, made for that express purpose on every farm, together with all the other calves belonging to that farm. At regular times all the cows are brought to the door of this inclosure, where the young one; fail not to meet them. Every calf is then separately let out, and runs directly to its mother, when it is allowed to suck till the dairy- maid judges that it has had enough; she then orders it to be driven away, having previously shackled the hind legs of the mother by a very simple contrivance, to oblige her to stand still, and the dairy-maid milks off what was left by P[ 210 ] MIL MIL the calf. In this manner ihej proceeS until tne ■whole of tlie cows are milked; and thus they obtain a small quantity of milk, it is trne, but that milk is of an exceedingly rich quality, ■which, in the hands of those Tv-ho know how to manage it, is manufactured into the richest marrowy bntter that can be anywhere met with. This richness of the Highland butter has long been remarked, and has been nniversally ascribed to the old grass on which the cows feed in those remote glens; but it is, in fact, chiefly to be attributed to the practice here described, which has long prevailed in those districts. Whether a similar practice could be economi- cally adopted in other districts we do not pre- sume to afBrm, but doubtless other secondary uses might be found for the milk of an inferior quality. It might be converted into butter of a secondary quality; or it might be sold in a sweet state, where the situation of the farm is within reach of a town ; or it might be converted into cheeses, which being made oi sweet milk, if made with care and skill, might be of a very fine qualit}'. Fourthly. If the quality of the butter be the principal object attended to, it will be necessary not only to separate the first from the last- drawn milk, but also to take nothing but the cream that is Jirst separated from the best milk, as it is this first rising cream which is of prime quality. The remainder of the milk, which will still be sweet, may either be employed for the purpose of making sweet milk cheeses, or may be allowed to stand and throw np cream for making an inferior sort of butter, as circum- stances may require or direct. Fifthly. From the preceding facts we are enabled to perceive that butter of the very finest quality can only be obtained from a dairy of considerable extent when judiciously managed ; for, when only a very small propor- tion of each cow's milk can be set apart for throwing tip cream, and when a very small pro- portion only of that cream can be reserved as of the prime quality, it follows that, unless the quantity of milk were, upon the whole, very considerable, the quantity of prime cream pro- duced would be so small as to be scarcely worth the manufacturing of it into butter separately. Sixthly. From these premises we are led to form a conclusion extremely different from the opinion commonly entertained on this subject, viz., that it seems probable that the very best butter could only be, with economy, made in those dairies where the making of cheese is the principal object. 'The reason is obvious. If only a small portion of the milk ought to be set apart for butter, all the rest may be made into cheese while the milk is yet warm from the cow, and perfectly sweet; and if only tha^ portion of cream which rises during the firs* three or four hours after milking is to be re served for butter, the rich milk which is lef' after that cream is separated, being still nearl} or quite sweet, may be converted into cheese witl nearly as great advantage as the newly drawn milk itself. Nor does this observation tend to invalidate the justness of the commonly received opinion upon this subiect, which will, in general, be just, according to the usual practice of dairy owners in any part of Britain, under whose system of management the making of good butter and good cheese in the same dairy is impracticable; for, where the whole milk is set apart lor the separation of cream, and the whole of the cream is separated, the milk must necessarily have turned sour before it is made into cheese, and no best or prime cheese can be made from milk which has once attained that state. It is not generally known that the spon- taneous separation of cream, and the production of butter, are never efiected but in consequence of the production of acid in the milk; and the formation of that acid is accelerated by the separation of carbonic acid gas {fixed air) from the milk, which is accelerated or retarded by circumstances not usually adverted to. This important fact was discovered during the course of the experiments on milk already alluded to, which were made many years since, and were occasioned by the following circumstances :— Having remarked that of two tea-cups, which, from previous experiments, were known to con- tain milk of the same quality, one had the cream upon it at one time of a diiferent con- sistence from the other, and being at a loss how to account for this variation, we tasted the milk in each of the tea-cups, and found one of them sensibly more acid than the other. A piece of newly slaked lime having been acci- dentally nearer to one of the cups than to the other, a suspicion arose that it might be occa- sioned by this circumstance. With a view to ascertain this fact, two tea-cups were ordered to be immediately filled with equal quantities oi the same milk, and one of them was immersed up to its brim in a quantity of quicklime, which had been so long slaked as to have acquired the same temperature with the air, but had not become altogether effete ; the other tea-cup was placed in the same apartment at the distance of about a yard from the former. The result was, that in the course of twelve hours the milk in the tea-cup placed among the lime tasted most sensibly sourer than the other; the cream, also, was more perfectly separated from it than from the other.[ 211 ] MIL MIL The converse of this experiment -was not repeated from want of the requisite conveniences at the time; hut there is no doubt that, were milli placed in a vessel filled with mephitic gas, the acidification of the milk would be retarded, and the separation of the cream would conse- quently be postponed. However this may be, it is a certain fact that neither cream nor butter can be obtained from milk until some portion of acid be produced in it; and hence it is that, when fanciful people attempt to chum milk newly drawn from the cow, the operation must be continued till the acid is generated, and the churning must be protracted much longer than would have been necessary under other circumstances, which invariably impairs the quality of the butter. Now, since nothing tends so much to deteriorate the quality of cheese as acidity in the milk from which it is made, it must follow that, when cream is sepa- rated from it in the usual way for making butter, the milk must have attained such a degree of acidity as to prove highly detrimental. It must, therefore, be an injurious practice to make butter in a cheese dairy after the usual manner, but not if it be made conformably to the practice above recommended. The preceding hints are offered merely to show the curiam in what way the finest butter possible may be made, for few persons, perhaps, could be found who would be willing to purchase such butter at such a price as would indemnify any dairy owner for the extraordinary trouble he must incur in making it; but, for an ordinary market, experience has convinced us that if, in general, about half the milk be separated at each milking, and the remainder only be set up for producing cream, and if that milk be allowed to stand to throw up the whole of its cream, even till the milk tastes perceptibly sourish, and if that cream be afterwards carefully managed, the cream thus obtained will be of a quality greatly superior to that usually obtained at market, and its quantity will not he materially less than if the whole of the milk had been set apart for procuring cream. Such is the practice we would recommend as most likely to suit the frugal farmer; for his butter, though of a superior quality, could be afforded at a price which would always insure it a rapid sale. Another advantage would result from this practice, which might in some cases prove highly beneficial, namely, that, by adopting it, the careful dairy-maid may obviate some particular tastes with which milk is liable to be affected, and by which the butter will consequently be deteriorated, as will appear from the following fact:— In the course of the experiments on milk above alluded to, it was perceived that the milk from one cow tasted exactly as if salt had been put into it. Inquiry being made into the cause of this peculiarity, it appeared that the cow in question had missed calf that season, and was continued in milk the whole year. The author was farther informed that a saline taste was frequently perceptible in milk of this kind ; and, on tasting some of the last-drawn milk of the same cow, he found it perfectly sweet, while the milk of the first-drawn cup was extremely salt. In order to ascertain how much of the milk was affected with that saline taste, he caused the whole of the milk to be drawn from the cow into tea-cups, one after the other; and, having examined them in the order in which they were drawn, he found the milk contained in the first cup to possess the most saline taste, which gradually diminished in every succeeding cup till about the middle, when it totally disappeared. MILK. (See Dairy.) As the milk of animals contains more cream than that of the human breast, it ought to be diluted with water when given to infants. It combinea both saccharine and oily particles, and is a very serviceable ai'ticle of diet in a putrescent state of the blood, in inveterate ulcers, and in the scurvy. It is well calculated to assuage rigidity, cramps, and pains, being a diluent and attenuating remedy, especially in the state of whey; it promotes perspiration and evacua- tion in general, and is highly beneficial in spitting of blood, hysterics, hypochondriasis, dysentery, inveterate coughs, convulsive affec- tions, the putrid sore throat, and in complaints arising from worms. Milk is also used for fomentations, baths, emollient injections, and washes for inflamed or sore parts. If intended as a medicine it should be drunk immediately, or soon after it comes from the cow, because through boiling, and even by long standing, the best and most nutritious halsamic particles evaporate. The milk to be employed for diet in diseases ought to be taken from healthy and well- nourished animals ; for we see in children how much depends on the health of the mother, and how suddenly they suffer from an unhealthy or passionate nurse. In spring and summer the milk is peculiarly good and wholesome, on account of the salubrious nourishment of the herbs. In winter it is much inferior. It is further necessary tha,t the animal furnishing the milk should be kept in the free air, and have daily exercise. In order to obtain good milk it would be advisable, for private families who have the opportunity, to keep a cow; for, besides the adulteration of that which is sold, cows are frequently milked at an improper time, by which the milk is much injured, and cannot be wholesome.MIL [ 213 ] MIL The best milk is obtained from the cow at three or lour years of age, about three months after producing the calf, and in a serene spring morning. Good cows' milk ought to be white, without any smell; and so fat that a drop being allowed to fall on the finger nail will not run down in divisions. It is lighter, but contains more ■watery parts than the milk of sheep and goats ; while, on the other hand, it is more thick and heavy than the milk of asses and mares, which comes nearest the consistence of human milk. Ewes' milk is rich and nourishing; it yields much butter, which, however, is so unsavoury that it cannot be eaten. Both this and goats' milk produce much cheese, which is tough, strong, pungent, and difficult to be digested. As goats are fond of astringent herbs their mUk is superior in strength to that of other animals, and hence it has been sometimes used with the most happy success in hysteric cases. Goats' whey and asses' milk are chiefly used in pulmonary consumptions; and, where asses' milk cannot be got, that of mares may be used as a substitute. Milk consists of cheesy, buttery, and watery parts: that which contains a well-proportioned mixture of the three is the most wholesome. But this mixture is not always met with in due proportion—frequently the first two, namely, cheese and butter, predominate; and in this case it affords, indeed, a strong food, but is diffi- cult of digestion. If the water forms the greatest proportion it is then easily digested, but less nourishing. This is particularly the case with asses' milk, which, more than any other, afiects the urine and stool, while it has a tendency to purify the blood. On account of the warmth and the mechanical process of the digestive organ, joined to the chemical properties of the acid generated in it, milk necessarily coagulates in every stomach. The cheesy part is dissolved and diluted by the admixture of the digestive liquors, and thus prepared for being changed into a pure chyle or milky fluid. Indeed, it makes no difference whether we take cream, cheese, and whey in succession, or whether we consume them united in the mass oi the milk: in the former case the separation takes place without, and in the latter within, the stomach. It is, however, improper to eat acid sub- stances together with milk, as this mass would occasion fermentation and corruption ; while, on the contrary, the natural coagulation is only a separation of the constituent parts, not a transi- tion ot this mild fluid into the stage of acid fermentation, for this is prevented by the saponaceous digestive liquors, though the milk itself be coagulated. Yet milk is not a proper food for the debili- tated in all cases; nay, under certain circum stances it may even be hurtful. It does not, for instance, agree with hypochondriacs, as it occasions cramp of the stomach, colic, heart- burn, and diarrhoea. Febrile patients, whose weak organs of digestion do not admit of nutritive food, and whose preternatural heat would too easily change the milk into a rancid mass, must abstain from it altogether. It dis- agrees also with the plethoric, the phlegmatic, and the corpulent, but particularly with tip- plers, or those addicted to strong spirits. Its butyrous and cheesy parts may obstruct diges- tion and oppress the stomach. Lastly, sour milk is unfit for nse, on account of the chemical decomposition which has taken place in its constituent parts, and because it can hardly be digested by the most powerful stomach: even sweet milk ought not to bo eaten together with flesh, and in most cases the whey is preferable to the milk. With these exceptions milk is an excellent species of diet, which does not require strong digestive organs, unless a variety of other sub- stances be eaten with it. On the contrary, per- sons much reduced in bodily vigour have received benefit, and in a great measure been cured by taking milk only. We daily observe that children at the breast, with the natural inclina- tion to acidity and viscosity, feel its bad effects only when, together with milk, they are fed upon cakes, pastry, gingerbread, and other trash. Milk, being free from all acrimony, produces wholesome, light, and sweet blood. Sugar and salt are almost the only proper flavourings to be added to it. MILK: To Pkevent Tdrnikg Soue. When the weather is hot milk and cream may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the same very gently, without boiling, in broad shallow pans, or in a jar set in a boiler of hot water; and this is, perhaps, the best and simplest plan. MILK: To Take the Turnip Taste fkom. To every two gallons add a quart of boiling water, mix well, and let it stand for cream. This will give sweet butter all the winter; but, as that weakens the skim milk, a small bit of salt- petre or a piece of stone lime may be put into every dish. MILK OF ALMONDS See Almokd Milk. MILK, ASSES'. See Ass. MILK, BUTTER. Put six quarts of butter- milk into a cheese cloth, hang it in a cool place, and let the whey drip from it for two or three days. When it is rather thick put it into a basin, sweeten it with pounded loaf sugar, and add a glass of brandy or of sweet wine, and as much raspberry jam or syrup as will colour and give it an agreeable flavour. Whisk all wellMIL MIL [ S13 ] togetlieT, and serve it in a glass disb. See Buttermilk. MILK FEVER- To prevent the milk fever the breasts ought to be frequently drawn, and, if they are filled previously to the onset of a fever, they should, upon its first appearance, be drawn, to prevent the milk from becoming acrid, and its being absorbed in this state, Costiveness is likewise to be avoided. This will be best effected by the use of mild clysters and a laxa- tive diet. MILK LEMONADE. Dissolve 6 ozs. of loaf sugar in a pint of boiling water, with which mix a quarter of a pint of lemon juice and the same quantity of sherry; then add three quarters of a pint of cold milk, stir the whole well together, and pass it through a jelly bag to xjlear. MILK PORRIDGE. Make a fine gruel of half-ground grits boiled a long time, strain off, and either add cold milk or warm it with milk. Serve with toast. MILK PORRIDGE, FRENCH. Stir some oatmeal and water together, leave it to stand till it is clear, and then pour off the latter; pour fresh water upon the wet meal, stir it well, let it stand till the following day, strain through a fiiie sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing so. The proportion of water should be small. MILK, POTTAGE OF. Put on the fire some milk, with a little sugar and a bay leaf; add, as soon as it boils, the yolks of three eggs ; then take it off, and set it aside. Whip the whites of eggs to a snow, poach them in a little of the milk, soak your bread in the remainder, put it into a tureen, with the poached whites on the top, sprinkle them with sugar, and colour them with a salamander. MILK IN POWDER. Kirchoff, a Russian chemist, who discovered the process of converting starch into sugar, has made several experiments upon milk, by which it appears that this fluid may be preserved for use for an indefinite time. Fresh milk is slowly evaporated by a very gentle heat till it is reduced to dry powder, which must be kept perfectly dry in a bottle well stopped for use. When required it need only be diluted with a sufficient quantity of water. The mix- ture will then have all the taste and properties of new milk. MILK PUNCH (1). Beat up two eggs well, and mix them in a quart of milk, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon-peel to your taste; boil gently, stir- ring it all the time till thick enough; take it off the fire a very few minutes, and then add to it a full quarter of a pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time the rum is being poured in, or it will not be good. MILK PUNCH (2). Pare six oranges and six lemons as thin as you possibly can, and grate them afterwards with sugar to obtain the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped closely for twenty-four hours; squeeze the fruit on 2 lbs. of sugar, add four quarts of water to it, and one quart of new milk boiling hot; stir the rum in the above, and run it through a, jelly bag until it is quite clear. Bottle and cork it closely immediately. MILK PUNCH FOR PRESENT DRINK- ING. To two quarts of water put two of French brandy, a dozen and a half of lemons, | lb. of double-refined sugar, and three pints of new milk. Strain frequently through a jelly bag till it is clear and fine. It must be made two or three days before you use it, and may h& bottled off. MILK ROLLS. Boil a quart of new milk, pour it on a quart of flour while boiling hot, and stir well together. When nearly cold add two tea- spoonsful of salt, two table-spoonsful of lard, and half a tea-cupful of good yeast; set it in a warm place to rise for about two hours. When light work flour in it on the cake board, and when quite smooth mould it out into rolls, and put them in a baking-pan which has been rubbed with lard or butter. Set them in a warm place to rise again : if the weather is warm on a table in the kitchen, but if cold set them by the fire. When light put-them in a cool place till you are ready to bake. They should have a moderate heat, and will bake in half an hour. MILK OF ROSES (1). Mix together a pint of rose water and 1 oz, of oil of sweet almonds; then add 10 drops of oil of tartar, bottle it, and shake it well. It is good for softening the hands. MILK OF ROSES (2). Blanched almonds, 4o2s.; rose water, 1^ pint; white Windsor soap, ^ oz.; white wax, ^ oz.; oil of almonds, ^ oz.; rectified spirit, 6 ozs.; oil of bergamot, i oz.; oil of lavender, J drachm ; attar of roses, ^ drachm. Beat the almonds and rose water in a mortar until they form an emulsion; melt together with a gentle heat the soap, wax, and almond oil; pour this melted mixture into the emulsion, and then strain. Dissolve the oils of bergamot, lavender, and rose in the rectified spirit, and then mix it with the strained emul- sion. Used as a cosmetic. See Cosmetics for a cheaper recipe. MILK SOUP. Take two quarts of new milk, with two sticks of cinnamon, a couple of bay leaves, a very little basket salt, and a little sugar. Put all into a stewpan to warm. While heating blanch ^ lb. of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar, mix it by degrees with some milk, and while heating add to them the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice ; then strain it through a coarse sieve, mix itMIL [ 214 3 MIN- with the milk that is heating in the stewpan, and let it boil up. Cut some slices of French bread, dry them before the fire, let them soak a little in the milk, lay them at the bottom of the tureen, and pour in the soup. MILK SOUP, LIE. Put a quart of milk on the fire, and when it boils add to it sugar to your taste, a pinch of salt, and four eggs ; keep it on the fire, stirring till you find it thicken and adhere to the spoon (the milk must not boil); cut some \erj light bread into pieces, soak them in the usual way, substituting milk for broth, pour the soup over, and serve. MILK SOUP AU SAFRAN. Scald and drain some rice, and put it into a quart of boil- ing milk, adding 6 grains of saffron in powder. Let it boil over a slow fire for an hour and a half, and then serve it quite hot. MILK TOAST. Boil a tea-cupful of milk, and put in a spoonful of butter; toast a slice of bread, moisten it with water, and then pour on the boiling milk. This is very good for sick persons, and can be eaten without much exertion. MILK VINEGAR. Put six spoonsful of good brandy into a large bottle full of milk; cork it well, and expose it in a warm place for a month, opening it occasionally on account of the fermentation. At the end of that time the milk will have become very good vinegar. Strain it through a cloth, and keep it in bottles. MILK WATER. Take two handsful of wormwood, the same of carduus, ditto of rue, ditto of angelica; mint and balm, of each four handsful; cut them a little, put them in a cold still, and add to them three quarts of milk. Let your fire be quick till the still drops, and then slacken it. You may di'aw off two quarts : the first quart will keep all the year. MILK, VANILLA (Cold). Six yolks of eggs and a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smooth with a little cold milk, to be beaten up with a quart of boiling milk, sugar and bruised vanilla then added, the whole again boiled and con- stantly stirred, and, being poured into a tureen, to be set aside in the cellar to become cold. "While this is going oii beat up three eggs with a cup of milk, and sweeten with sugar; cover it over, and place it in a roasting or baking oven, or only in the hot ashes, and let it become thick. When cold add to it the cold milk previously prepared, sprinkle over with sugar, and serve to table. MILK YEAST. If you have no yeast you may make some with milk to rise with. Take a pint of new milk, and stir in it two tea-spoonsful of salt and half a tea-cupful of flour; keep it moderately warm by the fire, and it will lighten in about an hou'-; tliou stir in flour enough to make a large loaf of bread, with more milk or water. This yeast should be used immediately, and will do to lighten hop yeast. MILLET MILK. Wash three spoonsful of millet seed in cold water, and then put it into a quart of new milk. Stew it gently till it is moderately thick, and then pour it into a basin to cool. MILLET PUDDING (1). Cleanse i lb. of millet seed, and put it into a dish spread over with ^ lb. of butter, adding thereto some sugar and shred lemon-peel, with a little beaten allspice, cinnamon, grated nutmeg, or ginger, and pour over the whole three pints of milk. Bake it in a moderately heated oven. It may be enriched with eggs, spicery, and wine. MILLET PUDDING (2). Wash three spoonsful of the seed, put it into a dish with a crust round the edges, pour over it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, and add 2 ozs. of butter warmed, sugar, shred lemon, and a very little ginger and nutmeg grated. When put in the oven stir in two eggs beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. MINCE PIES. When about to make mince pies take a small dish, and lay a thin crust over it; then spread thinly upon it a layer of the mincemeat, as described in the fol- lowing receipts, lay on the crust, and bake it well. MINCE PIES, EGG. Boil six eggs hard, and shred them small; chop double that quantity of suet; then take 1 lb. or more of currants washed and picked, the peel c" a lemon shred finely, together with the juice, six spoonsful of sweet wine, some mace, nutmeg, silgar, a little salt, orange, lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste, and proceed as for the ordinary mince pies. MINCE PIES, FARMERS'. When you kill an ox save the head for pies : it is some trouble to prepare it, but it is very nice for the purpose. Split the head, take out the brains and eyes, wash it well in cold water, and soak it all night, with two hogs' heads that have been cleaned, In the morning boil them till you can take out the bones easily ; skim off the froth as it rises, or it will stick to the meat; pick out the bones, and chop it fine with 3 lbs. of suet. This should be done the day before you want to bake. Mix to this quantity of meat two gallons of chopped apples, 4 lbs. of raisins, half a gallon of boiled molasses, a pint of currant wine, a tea-cupful of brandy, 1 oz. of cinnamon, orange-peel, and mace, from two to four nutmegs, and sweet cyder enough to make it the right thickness : if the cyder is not sweet put in more molasses. When all are mixed it is best to make a small pie, as you can alter the seasoning if it is not to yourMIN [ 215 ] MIN taste. If you have no raisins, dried cherries, or small grapes that have beea preserved iu sugar or molasses, are very good; or stewed dried apples instead of green; and when you have no cyder stew the apples in plenty of water, so as to have them very soft. A little good vinegar, sweetened and mixed with water, also does instead of cyder, but is not so good. This will make about forty pies, and if you have a convenient way of keeping them you may bake all at once, as they will keep for two months very readily when the weather is cold. If you do not bake all at once put what is left in a jar, cover the top with melted suet, and over this put a piece of white paper, with a tea- cupful of spirits poured on the top; tie it up, and keep it where it will not freeze. Where persons have a large family and workmen on a farm these pies are very useful. MINCE pies; lemon. Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till it can be beaten to a pulp, adding thereto three large apples cut small, 4 ozs. of suet, ^ lb. of. currants, and 4 ozs. of sugar; put in the juice of the lemon and candied fruit, make a short crust, and fill your patty pans. MINCE PIES WITHOUT MEAT. Take I lb. of currants, I lb. of apples chopped fine, 1 lb, of moist sugar, I lb. of suet well chopped, i lb. of raisins stoned and chopped small, the juice of four Seville oranges, the juice of two lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg and max;e according to taste, and a glass of brandy. Mix all well together, put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. MINCE PIES, PATTIES RESEMBLING. Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, add thereto an apple, orange, lemon-peel candied, fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, some brandy, and sugar. Bake them in small patty pans. MINCE PUDDING. Take 1^ lb. of mince- meat, and sift f lb. of flour; beat six eggs till very light, and stir into them alternately the mince- meat and the flour, a little at a time of each: stir the whole very hard. Have ready a pudding cloth dipped into a pot of boiling water, then wrung and dredged with flour; spread out the cloth in a large pan, and pour into it the pudding; tie it tightly, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and stop up the tying place with a small bit of dough made of flour and water; put it immediately into a large pot of boiling water, having an old plate at the bottom to keep the pudding from scorching, and boil it steadily five or six hours, turning it in the pot every hour. As the water boils away replenish it from a kettle of water that is kept boiling hard. Do not turn out the pudding till immediately before it is sent to table. Eat it with wine sauce. This pudding is excellent, and the mincemeat is the same as that described in the preceding receipts. MINCED COLLOPS. This is a favourite Scotch dish, and few families are without it; it keeps well, and is always ready to form an extra dish. Take beef, chop and mince it very small with a chopping knife, and add some salt and pepper; put this in its raw state into small jars, and pour on the top some clarified butter. When intended for use put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, slice some onions into the pan, and fry them; add a little water, and then put in the minced collops. Stew them well, and in a few minutes they will be fit to serve up. See Collops. MINCEMEAT. This is of a very superior description. Boil two perfectly fresh ox tongues, and when cold skin and mince them, including the fat about the roots; mince also 1 lb. of beef suet, and mix it with the chopped tongues ; add four nutmegs powdered, 2 ozs. of powdered cinnamon, and 1 oz. of pow- dered mace, with a table-spoonful of powdered cloves. Pick clean, wash, and dry 3 lbs. of Zante currants; stone and chop 3 lbs. of the best raisins. Mix the fruit with the other ingredients, adding I lb. of citron sliced, including the grated yellow rind, and the juice of three large lemons or oranges. Sweeten the mixture with '2 lbs. of sugar, and moisten it with a quart of excellent brandy, and a quart of sherry or Madeira wine. Having thoroughly mixed the whole, pack it down hard into small stone jars, covering them closely, and pasting strong white paper over the lids. Do not add the apples till you take out the mince- meat for use, as it keeps better without them. Then take a sufficient number of pippins, or other acid cooking apples; pare, core, and chop them, and mix them with the mincemeat, allowing three large apples to a pint of mince- meat. Their freshness will improve the flavour. Sometimes the same weight of tripe is used instead of the meat, and sometimes the yolk of eggs boiled hard. It is best to make mince- meat two or three times during the winter, as it will not continue very good longer than five or six weeks. Whenever you take any out of the jar put some additional brandy to the re- mainder. MINCEMEAT, TEMPERANCE. For the benefit of those who are scrupulously fastidious about using anything which contains ardent spirits the following will be found to be free from such objection: — Take 3 lbs. of the lean of a round of fresh beef that has been boiled the day before. It must be thoroughly boiled and very tender. Mince it as finely as possible with a chopping kuife, and add to itMIN [ 216 3 MIN 2 lbs. of beef suet freed from the skin and filaments, and minced veiy small. Mix the suet and the lean beef well together, and add 1 lb. of brown sugar. Pick, wash, and dry before the fire 2 lbs. of Zante cur- rants ; stone and chop 2 lbs. of the hest raisins. Grate the yellow rind of three large lemons or oranges into a saucer, and squeeze upon it the juice through a strainer. Mix this with the currants and raisins. Prepare a lieaped-up table-spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, the same quantity of powdered ginger, a heaped tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg, the same of powdered clo%'es, and the same of pow- dered mace. Mix all these spices with a quart of the best West India molasses ; then mix well together the meat and the fruit, and wet the whole with the spiced molasses, of which you must have enough to make the mixture very moist, but not too thin. If you want the mincemeat for immediate use add to it 4 lbs. of minced apple; add also ^ lb. of citron, not minced, but cut into long slips. If you intend the mincemeat for keeping do not add the apple and citron until you are about to make the pies, as it will keep better Avithout them. Mix all the other articles thoroughly, and pack down the mincemeat hard in small stone jars. Lay upon the top of it a round of thin white paper dipped in molasses, and cut exactly to fit the inside circumference of the jar. Secure the jars closely with flat, tight-fitting corks or bungs, then with a lid, and paste paper down over the top on the outside. West India molasses will be found a good substitute for the wine and brandy generally used to moisten mincemeat. MINDEREKUS'S SPIRIT. ^See Ammonia, Acetate of. MINT CREAM. Put into the bain-marie still a gallon of brandy, 12 ozs. of fresh-gathered mint, and the rinds of three lemons ; distil from this two quarts of liqueur, in which dissolve 1 drachm of essence of mint; put 1^ lb. of sugar into two quarts of water, and when entirely dissolved add the syrup to your liqueur. Strain and bottle it. MINT JELLY. Put f lb. of sugar into a pveserving-pan, and when nearly boiling throw in 12 drachms of fresh-gathered mint and the rinds of two lemons; cover it, and leave it to get lukewarm. Dissolve ^ drachm of essence of mint in a glass of tepid water and half a gLiss of kirschwasser, and mix these with the lukewarm sugar and^l oz. of clarified isinglass, also lukewarm. Strain the whole through a silk sieve, and finish as usual. MINT JULEP (1). Strip the tender leaves of mint into a tumbler, and add to them as much wire, brandy, or any other spirit as you wish to take. Put some pounded ice into a second tumbler; pour this on the mint and brandy, and continue to pour the mixture from one tum- bler to the other until the whole is sufficiently impregnated with the flavour of the mint, which is extracted by the particles of the ice coming into brisk contact when changed from one vessel to the other. Now place the glass in a larger one containing pounded ice, on taking it out of which it will be covered with frostwork. MINT JULEP (2). This, the favourite beverage of the Americans, is, according to Captain Marryat, prepared as follows. AVe give the recipe in the captain's own words :—" I must descant a little upon the mint julep, as it is, with the thermometer at lOO", one of the most delightful and insinuating potations that ever was invented, and may be drank with equal satisfaction when the thermometer is as low as 70°. There are many varieties, such as those composed of claret, Madeira, &c., but the ingre- dients of the real mint julep are as follow. I learned how to make it, and succeeded pretty well:—Put into a tumbler about a dozen sprigs of the tender shoots of mint; upon them put a spoonful of white sugar, and equal proportions of peach and common brandy, so as to fill it up one-third, or perhaps a little less; then take rasped or pounded ice, and fill up the tumbler. Epicures rub the lips of the tumbler with a piece of fresh pine-apple, and the tumbler itself is very often incrusted outside with stalactites of ice. As the ice melts you drink." MINT, LIQUEUR OP. Take two hands- ful of fresh-gathered garden mint, and infuse it for some days in a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of water; then distil it as usual. Dissolve Si lbs. of sugar in seven pints of water, mix the syrup with the liquor, and run the whole through a jelly bag. MINT SAUCE (1). Pick and wash some green mint, add when minced a table-spoonful of the young leaves to four of vinegar, and put it into a sauce tureen, with a tea-spoonful of brown sugar. _ MINT SAUCE (2). Wash half a handful of nice young fresh-gathered green mint (to this some add one-third the quantity of parsley), pick the leaves from the stalks, mince them very fine, and put them into a sauce-boat, with a tea- spoonful of moist sugar and four table-spoonsful of vinegar. MINT SOUFFLfi. Take some fresh-gathered mint leaves, put them with the rinds of two lemons into the milk, strain, and finish as directed in Souffle. MINT VINEGAR. Take i oz. of mint, dry and pound it, pour over it a quart of the best vinegar, and let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day.t 217 ] MOL MIN MINT WATER (1). Take 4 lbs. of dried spearmint, two gallons and a half of proof spirits, and three gallons of water. Distil them, and sweeten the water with 1| lb. of sugar. MINT WATER (2). Take 4 lbs. of dried mint, two gallons and a half of proof spirits, and three gallons of water. Distil them, and sweeten the water with 1^ lb. of sugar. MITES. See Cheese: To Peeseevb. MIXTURE. See Julep, which it nearly resembles. MOCK TURTLE. See Toetle, Mock. MOFFAT WATER. The village of Moffat, surrounded by lofty hills, is situated at the head of a valley on the banks of the Annan, about fifty-six miles south-west of Edinburgh. The chief of the sulphureous waters which have given, celebrity to this watering-place is contained within a stone building inclosing a pump. The supply of water is sufficient for every demand. When first drawn it appears rather milky and bluish. The smell resembles that of bilge water, being precisely the same as that of Harrowgate, and the taste is saline and sulphureous, but not bitter. When exposed to the air it becomes more turbid, then separates a thin film, which is pure sulphur, and loses thereby all its distinguishing qualities as a sul- phureous water. As this change takes place even in close vessels it cannot bear transporting to any distance. A wine gallon of Moffat water contains, according to Dr. Garnet's analysis,—- Muriate of soda . Carbonic acid gas Azotic gas . . Sulphuretted hydrogeo Grains. . 80 Cutic inches . 5 . 4 . 10 19 It is, therefore, more simple than the Harrowgate water, and produces, consequently, effects some- what different, having a determination to the urinary organs, without any certain operation on the alimentary canal, unless when taken in a very large dose. Some purgative salts, there- fore, should always be conjoined with the internal use of this water, to keep the bowels regular. Its medical virtue depends principally on the sulphuretted hydrogen gas which it contains, and which has a powerful influence on the secretory organs, but particularly on the skin, through the innumerable pores of which it operates with considerable activity. It is as efficient in the cure of many chronic diseases as mercury, and possesses this superiority—that its continued use induces no debility or distressing consequences. Moffat water is a decided alterative, and is employed principally for the cure of cutaneous disorders. In these cases its sulphureous warm , baths are judiciously made a part of the plan of treatment. In the early stages of scrofula it is often of infinite benefit. Glandular tumours are fre- quently dispersed by its use, without suppura- tion or any unpleasant consequences. As an internal remedy this water is prescribed in various quantities, according to the age, sex, disease, and morbid irritability of the stomach. The dose is usually from one English pint to four pints, drunk in divided portions, and with a sufficient interval of time interposed between them. MOLASSES. See Teeacle. MOLASSES BREAD CAKE. On a bread- making day, when the wheat bread has risen perfectly light, and is cracked on the surface, take as much of the dough as will fill a quart bowl, and place it in a broad pan. Cut up ^ lb. of fresh butter, and set it over the fire to warm and soften, but do not let it melt to an oil. When quite soft mix with it half a pint of West India molasses, a small table-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon, and the finely grated yellow rind of a large orange or lemon, adding also the juice. Have ready three eggs well beaten, and add them gradually to the mixture. It must form a lump of soft dough, but not too thin to knead with your hands. Knead it well on the paste board for a quarter of an hour. Butter some tin pans, put an equal portion of the dough into each, cover them, and set them in a warm, but not a hot place for a quarter of an hour before baking; then bake the cakes well. Instead of small pans you may bake the whole of the dough in one large one. This cake should be eaten the day it is baked, fresh, but not warm. All sweet cakes in which yeast is an ingredient are best and most wholesome when fresh, as the next day they become hard, dry, and com- paratively heavy. MOLASSES CAKE. Cut up ^ lb. of fresh butter into a pint of West India molasses, warm itjust sufficiently to moisten the butter and make it mix easily, stir them well togethei", and add a table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon; beat three eggs till very light, and stir them gi'adually into the mixture, in turn with barely eno ugii sifted flour (not more than a pint and a h alf) to make it about as thick as pound-cake batt er: add at the last a small or level tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of potash, or a full one of bicarbona te of soda, dissolved in a very little warm water. Butter some small tin cake pans or patty pans, put in the mixture, and set them immediately into the oven, which must not be too hot, as ail cakes made with molasses are peculiarly liable to scorch on the outside.MOL MON C 218 ] MOLASSES POSSET FOR A COLD. Take a pint of the best molasses, a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, J lb. of fresh butter, and let them simmer together for half au hour; then stir in the juice of two lemons, or, if you have not these, two table-spoonsful of strong vinegar; cover over the saucepan, and let it stand by the fire five minutes longer. Some of this may be taken wann or cold. MOLASSES SAUCE. Put half a pint of molasses to boil in a skillet, with a piece of butter the size of an egg. When it has boiled a few minutes pour in a tea-cupful of cream, and grate in half a nutmeg. This is the most economical way of making sauce. MOLES AND BIRTH-MARKS. The com- mon brown mole, which the Greeks called spilos, appears to be much of the same nature with freckles, and to be situated in the middle layer of the skin, or the membrane of colour. Moles are sometimes so well placed as to set off rather than injure a fine face, serving as a contrast to the delicacy of the skin, and giving an archness of expression to the countenance. They are most becoming, and they are also most commonly met with, in women of dark complexion. It is not unusual, however, to find them on the fairest and most delicate skin. The colouring matter, as in the case of freckles and sunburn, is pro- bably some chemical combination of iron. Be this as it may, moles have evidently a super- abundant vitality, and a tendency to increased action, in consequence, perhaps, of the stimulus of the iron ; and hence they are often slightly elevated above the surface, and the natural down of the skin is changed into a tuft of hair. They usually originate before birth, and sometimes disappear at the age of puberty; but they have also been known to appear at different ages. The same cosmetic applications may be tried as for freckles, with gentle friction, but they are seldom successful. Care must be taken, how- ever, not to produce much irritation, as it may lead to dangerous consequences, such as a foul, suppurating, fetid sore, or even to cancer or mortification, followed by sudden fatality. The less they are tampered with the better; and we must particularly denounce, as very dangerous, the application of depilatories for eradicating the tufts of hair on moles. Cancer is a common consequence of such empirical applications. None of our readers, we presume, are tinged with the vulgar folly of supposing that moles have anyiniluence on the fortune of individuals, or that this can be interpreted by the jugglery of gipsies. Influence of a mother's imagination. We be- lieve to a certain extent in the influence which a mother's imagination may have over the form and features of her offspring; but we can do this and reject, with perfect consistency of principle, the absurd stories told of the origin of wine spots, cherry spots, currant spots, mulbeny spots, grape spots, strawberry spots, raspbeny spots, leaf spots, bacon spots, and spider spots, often found on the skins of children at birth. Such spots are more commonly found on the face, neck, head, and upper extremities than on the trunk or lower parts of the body, and they all consist of a thick cluster of blood-vessels— arteries when the spots are of a bright red, and veins when purple or any other colour pre- dominates. The brightness or deepness of the colour is caused by the crowding of the vessels, and the extreme thinness of the sltin which covers them. The common vulgar origin of birth-marks is supported by observing, that they become brighter at the season the fruit is ripe which they are supposed to resemble. If this observation had been more accurate it would have discovered that the colour of the mark increases with the stimulus of the summer heat; and if the general health be at any time de- ranged, or if the current of the blood be in- creased by hot rooms, high-seasoned dishes, or wine, the same increase of colour will appear on the birth-mark as during the season of grapes, currants, cherries, or strawberries. Removal of hirth-marks. It is still more dan- gerous to tamper with red or purple birth-marks than with moles ; for the clustering of the blood- vessels sometimes extends to a greater depth than may be imagined, and if the mark is bruised or wounded a dangerous bleeding may follow, or an unsightly tumour. Mr. Abernethy was very frequently successful in removing them by con- tinued pressure, and Mr. Langstaff by caustic, while Mr. Wardrop and others fairly cut out the parts with the knife—the best and safest method where all the affected parts can be easily reached. The late Mr. Alan Burns suc- cessfully cut out a mark of this kind, which covered part of the right eye and cheek, like the wattles of a turkey cock. Mr. Langstaff was successful in cutting away the greater part of the upper lip of a child, three months old, who was hideously disfigured in a similar way. In all such cases we strongly recommend applying to a skilful surgeon, as otherwise dangerous consequences may follow. MOLUCCA, BALM OF. This agreeable cordial is made by adding to one gallon of spirits of wine f oz. of bruised cloves and -g- drachm of bruised mace. After standing a fortnight in a corked bottle, filter, colour with burnt sugar, and add 4^ lbs. of lump, sugar dissolved in half a gallon of water. Mix thoroughly, and then bottle. MONEY. See Coin, Current. MONKSHOOD. It all its parts, but parti-MOO [ 219 ] MON cularly in its leaves and roots, the Aconitum napellus, or common monkshood, is found ex- tremely acrid. Placed in contact with the tongue, any portion of them excites a painful feeling of smarting, and a very considerable secretion in the salivary glands. The great number of accidents caused by the careless use of the root of monkshood sufficiently indicates its deleterious action ; and M. Orfila, after a great number of experiments, came to the con- clusion that the juice of the leaves introduced into the stomach, the rectum, or the cellular tissue, caused serious injury, followed by speedy death. The root acts with still greater effect. The aqueous extract prepared with the expressed juice of fresh leaves, and particularly the alco- holic extract, acted with the same poisonous properties. These different preparations are absorbed, act on the nervous system, and in particular on the brain, causing a sort of mental alienation, besides inducing a local irritation in the organs to which they have been applied. Instances are known where persons having taken the effluvia of the plant in full flower by the nostrils have been seized with swooning fits, and had lost their sight for three or four days. It was but recently that a painful acci- dent occurred with this plant, by which four gentlemen were poisoned at Dingwall, three of whom died from the effects, and which was caused by a servant ignorantly digging the root of monkshood, and serving it at dinner for horseradish. It is said that goats will die from eating this plant, but that horses are not affected by it. In Sweden a decoction or pow- der of the root of A. hjcoctonum is used for destroying flies and other insects, and in Medel- padia Linnaeus says the roots are eaten without injury. The aciid principle which is found in the monkshood was discovered by M. Brandes to be an alkali, which has been named aconitina or aconitine. In the hands of the skilful prac- titioner aconitine has been advantageously employed, administered internally, in chronic rheumatism, gout, exostosis, amaurosis, scrofula, cancer, intermittents, itch, and other diseases. When this poisonous plant has been swallowed the speediest emetic should be given, which is 30 grains of sulphate of zinc (white vitriol), dis- solved in water. If this be not at hand give a table-spoonful of table mustard, and copious draughts of warm water. If the poison has brought on vomiting, or other violent symp- toms, give brandy with 20 drops of laudanum, and as many of spirits of hartshorn. MONOMANIA. In this permanent delirium is confined to one object, or to a small number of them. The sufferers are pursued day and night by the same ideas and affections, and they give themselves up to these with profound ardour and devotion. They often appear reason- able when conversing on subjects beyond the sphere of their delirium, until some external impression suddenly rouses the diseased train. The character of this form of insanity is very various, and depends on the predomiiiani, species of delusion that is present. It is hence divided into several varieties. Some are gay and highly excited—laugh, talk, and sing—fancy themselves deities, kings, learned, and noble. Cases of this nature must be familiar to every reader. Fodere mentions one which is strikingly illustrative. A merchant at Marseilles, aged seventy, and always a decided royalist, had devoted himself to heraldic researches. He was so overjoyed at the return of the Bourbons to France that he became insane. His predomi- nant mania was to recite with a loud voice the history of the kings of France, and to fatigue his auditors with a tedious catalogue of chrono- logical facts. If they listened with patience he was contented and calm, but if any impa- tience was manifested his fury became un- governable. Some patients, when suffering under this form of insanity, are excessively irascible, and even without any apparent cause are suddenly hurried into a violent passion or fury. It is while labouring under this that they become dangerous to themselves or to those around them. They will seize any weapon, and strike and injure others or themselves. Sometimes conscious- ness of their situation is so far present as to allow them to warn individuals of their danger, or to entreat them to prevent their doing injury. An internal sensation is perceived—as a burning heat with pulsation within the skull—previously to this excitement. Lunatics of this descrip- tion " eat much, but sometimes they endure hunger with great obstinacy; they have fre- quent pains in the bowels, and costiveness is common. The pulse is full, hard, and strong, and the skin warm." Probably this is a fOrm of insanity as common as any other. It is also said to be less durable, and to end more favourably.—(Beck.) MONTPELLIEE CORDIAL. Take the yellow rinds of two bergamots or citrons, or 50 drops of the essence of bergamot; cloves and mace, of each i oz.; proof spirit, 1 gallon ; water, 1 quart. Digest two days in a close vessel, draw off a gallon, and sweeten with fine sugar. MOORFOWLS : To Pot. Pick, singe, and wash the birds ; then dry them, and season them well inside and out with pepper, salt, mace, nut- meg, and allspice. Pack them in a small pot, cover them with butter, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold remove the butter, dry the hirds from the gravy, and put one into each pot,MOO MOR [ 220 ] mih. as much butter as will cover it. The best «vay to melt it is by warming it in a basin set in hot water. MOOEFOWLS : To Stew. Truss them, keeping on their heads, but draw their legs within their body ; mix well some salt and pep- per with flour and a piece of butter, put a small piece into each bird, and fry them all over of a nice brown in butter. Brown some butter and flour, and add to it some good gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and two cloves pounded; boil up the same, put in the moorfowls, and let them stew very slowly till tender. A little before taking them off the fire add a table-spoon- ful of mushroom catsup. If the birds are old stew them for two hours ; if young ones half that time. Cold roasted moorfowls are dressed exactly in the same way, only cut into joints, and stewed very gently nearly as long. Half an hour before serving a small tea-cupful of port wine should be added. MOREL SAUCE. Cut a nice morel, or as many as may be necessary, into small dice, so that there may be no waste; fry white in butter, and moisten with four spoonsful of veloute, two of consomme, and one of white wine. If the cook has not these sauces let rich stock be used, with a little flour and butter, or a roux, or a spoonful of very rich cream and salt. Any other seasoning may be added; but acids must be avoided, as they rather destroy the fine flavour of the morel. MORELS. These are a sort of underground mushroom or fungus, and called by botanists Morchella esculentu, found on wet banks and moist pastures. They ai-e used for thicken- ing soups and sauces, and to give them a fine flavour. For a ragoiit or garnish they are pre- pared as follows :—Having taken off their stalks, split the largest into two or three pieces, wash, and put them into a basin with warm water to free them from sand and earth; then blanch, drain, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and lemon juice*; give them a few turns, and moisten with either brown or white sauce. MORELS: To Keep. They should be dried slowly, put into paper bags, and kept in a diy place. MORELS WITH BACON. Cut about ^ lb. of bacon into slices, put them into a stew- pan, and set on the fire. When done take some large morels, wash them thoroughly, cut each in half, and put them into the same pan, having removed the bacon ; add a little butter, and give them a few tm-ns ; then take them out, soak them in melted butter or oil, with chopped parsley, shallots, whole pepper, and salt. In about half an hour drain and roll them in bread crumbs, put them on small skewers, lay them on a gridiron, and broil slowly, basting occa- sionally with butter, bacon, and fat. Lay the slices of bacon on a dish, and the morels on them. MORELS WITH CREAM. The morels being thoroughly washed, cut them in halves or quarters according to their size. Stew them with butter, salt, and a little water. When they are nearly done add some good cream, mix it in well, finish them, and serve the morels quite hot. MORELS, FRIED. Cut them lengthways, and boil them in a small quantity of rich broth over a slow fire. When the broth becomes rather thick take out and flour the morels, and fry them in a little lard. Make a sauce of the thickened broth, seasoning it ^\ith salt and nut- meg ; pour this into the dish, place the morels upon it, and add a little hot mutton gravy and lemon juice. MORELS IN GRAVY. Having cut, well washed, and drained your morels, put them into a saucepan, with oil, salt, and pepper. Let them boil for half an hour ; then add some veal gravy and a little wine; simmer them till suffi- ciently done, and serve them with the sauce; if the latter be too thick squeeze lemon juice into it. MORELS, STUFFED. Choose the largest and most round-shaped morels, and, having washed and drained, dry them in a cloth. Fill each with a little fine farce, and stew them with slices of bacon and veal. When nearly done pour on them a little veal gravy, and serve them hot. MOROCCO. [See Leathee.) Morocco leather, when soiled, should be sponged with soap and water, but not so as to soak into the leather, and when dry again be sponged over with milk. MORPHIA. This is one of the active prin- ciples of opium. Its most active form is when combined with acetic acid. It then forms acetate of morphia, of which the dose is from one-eighth to one quarter of a grain. Unlike opium, it occasions neither headache nor sick ness. MORRISON'S PILLS. No. 1 are made of equal quantities of aloes and cream of tartar. No. 2 of two parts gamboge, three parts aloes, one part colocynth, and four parts cream of tartar. They are made into a mass with syrup. MORTIFICATION. {See Gangrene and Inflammation.) This, though one of the re- sults of inflammation, occasionally arises with- out any symptoms of previous morbid affection. It may be distinguished by the parts, which are at first livid, becoming dark, and emitting par- ticles highly offensive to the smell. The parts also soon grow altogether insensible. There is moreMOR [ 221 ] MOR or less detachment of the skin, under which a turbid fluid is effused. On touching the part a crackling sensation is often perceptible. This arises from generation of air in the cellular membrane. The countenance, in xxrgent cases, assumes a wild, cadaverous appearance. The pulse, too, becomes rapid and irregular. Hic- cup commonly attends, together with cold per- spiration, purging, and delirium. Gangrene may be considered as mortification in its incipient state, sphacelus when it is per- fectly formed, and caries as destroying the bones. Some confine the term gangrene to superficial affection, and spachelus to that of the muscular or more solid parts. Mortification affecting an internal organ may be easily known by the sudden cessation of pain, and the coming on of fever attended with delirium, and cold clammy sweats. The fetid nature of the smell, livid complexion, and insensibility of the parts will prevent this affection, when external, from being confounded with any other. The danger will be in proportion to the im- portance of the organ affected. Mortification of an internal part is generally fatal. When mortification extends to the bone in any of the extremities, so that the muscular parts around it are completely destroyed, ampu- tation is advisable. This is never to be at- tempted until a separation begins to take place, and there is a limit put to the progress of in- flammation. A removal of the dead part from the living should invariably be promoted. It will be necessary to support the system with suitable articles of generous diet, and by the active influence of the other natural means. Simple cordials and corroborants, such as Peruvian bark, will be i'equired. Opiates are also indispensable. In all cases of mortification the black colour of the parts mortified shows the loss of the active and living principle, or of the spirit which supplied health and vigour. If, then, we can by any means supply this spirit, or a similar one, artificially, we shall so far prevent the death of the parts, or, in other words, the mor- tification. Now, we have fortunately for this purpose the powerful agency of wine or spirits, by which we can increase the flow of animal spirits, and the life and activity of all parts of the body. Accordingly, in all cases where mortification shows itself, either in bad fevers, or from acci- dental wounds or bruises, we advise that the patient should have immediately administered, every quarter of an hour, as much wine or strong punch as it may seem advisable in his circum- stances to give, till you force him into a renewed State of life, and banish the mortification. Cases cured. By an accident in a mine two men had their legs dreadfully bruised, so that it was considered impossible to preserve their lives without cutting them off. One of the men consented to have his leg cut off, and the other refused peremptorily. The operation was performed on the first, and the third day after he died of locked jaw, which often happens from wounds. The man who would not part with his leg was soon seized with alarming mortification. The shattered leg became blue, purple, livid, and black; and, as the substance of it began to dissolve, the watery parts bulged out the skin into numerous yellow blisters, as for the most part happens in morti- fication. At the same time his pulse was so low that it could not be felt, bis eyes sunk into their sockets, and his breathing was barely perceptible. In fact, he might have almost been considered as dead, so low were his powers of life reduced. In this apparently hopeless state a glass of port wine was ordered for him every ten minutes; and in the course of two houi-s his pulse had risen, and his eyes became brighter. Before nine hours from the first glass of wine the dying man was actually singing and merry, and but for his shattered leg we verily believe he would have got up to dance, although he was over sixty years of age. As soon as the spirit was found to take effect in this way the quan- tity was gradually diminished to a glass every half-hour, and at last to a glass every two hours. For nearly two weeks this old man lived almost entirely upon the port wine and a little beef tea; the mortification disappeared, the splintered pieces of bone came away through the wounds in his leg, and in two months he was able to walk. A child a year and a half old had a very bad scarlet fever, and showed symptoms of inward mortification by a black mouth and tongue, fetid breath, and a sunk pulse. In all such cases wine is the only anchor of hope. Port wine was procured, and lest it might be too strong the spirit was partly bunied out of it, though we think it would have been better to mix it with water. A tea-spoonful was given at short intervals, till it was evident that the spirit began to affect the little patient, whose eyes became brighter, and his mouth more moist and comfortable. After a few hours he fell asleep, and awakened in a fair state of recovery. We could mention many more instances, and particularly that of an infant a few days old with mortification from a bad thrush, which was cured by wine ; but these we consider to be quite suSicient to prove that tipsyness is a very powerful means of recovery in hopeless statesMOS MUF [ 222 ] of mortification, and we cannot too strongly recommend it. MOSELLE WINES. This is a generic name given to a great variety of wines, many of which are of a very ordinary description. The generality of Hocks consumed in England are produced on the banks of the Moselle, and some are of excellent quality, though they vary pro- digiously in that respect. Moselle and E,hiue wines are almost synonymous. MOTH. To exclude this insect from articles of dress, carpets, &c., camphor, tobacco, and many other strong-smelling applications have been recommended, but the best preventive is perfect dryness. Small articles of woollen and fur should be rolled into compact, close bundles, and have wrapped around them two, thi'ee, or more wrappings of unbroken paper, in such a manner as to prevent the ingress of insects. If this be properly done they may be put where most convenient, in a dark place or in a light one, in a tight drawer or on an open shelf, and they may be left undisturbed until wanted, whether that be six months or six years, without danger. There is no need of camphor, tobacco, &c. MOUNTAIN, BRITISH. Take some very fine Malaga raisins, pick out all the stalks, chop them very finely, and to every 5 lbs. of raisins put a gallon of water. Let them remain three weeks, stirring them frequently during that time; then squeeze out the liquor, and put it into a vessel that will just hold it, but be careful not to stop it till it has done hissing; then bung it up closely, and it will be fit for use in six months. MOUNTAIN WINE. This is also called Sweet Malaga, and is now very little made. Like all the Malaga wines, it is similar to Sherry, but very inferior in flavour, and retains its sweetness till it is two years old. MOUSE. See Mice. MOUSSELINE DE LAINE. This ■ fabric when soiled is usually thrown away, but it may be washed according to the following directions :—Remove the sleeves from the body, and the body from the skirt; take out the plaits; but the lining, if any, need not be removed. Whip over any ragged part to keep it from fraying. Wash it in cold soft water, soaping it thoroughly until a good lather is raised; if very dirty pass it through a second water, soaping again. Finally, rinse it in two or three waters until quite free from soap and dirt, using it lightly ; shake it; then extend it evenly on an ironing-table. When perfectly even hang it on a horse before a good fire until it is partially dried, but not dry enough to curl up. Ii'on it quickly when very damp, on the right side only. Hang it up again, and repeat the process of ironing two or three times, until it is as smooth and diy as new. The point to keep in view is to iron when very damp in the first instance. MOUTH GLUE. See Glue, Portable. MOXA. A small combustible body em- ployed for producing actual cautety. Moxas have been applied as counter-irritants in cases of gout, rheumatism, &c. They are usually made in the form of small cones or short cylinders, which are placed on the skin, ignited, and allowed to burn to the base. Chinese Moxas. Prepared from the do^vny portion of the leaves of Artemisia Sinensis. European Moxas. Usually made of carded cotton soaked in solution of nitrate or chlorate of potash. The pith of the elder tree or the sunflower is sometimes used. MUFFIN LOAF. Stir into a pint of mush a small piece of butter, a little salt, a pint of milk, and enough wheat flour to make a thick batter; stir into it half a tea-cupful of yeast, and let it rise. When it is light butter a pan, pour it in, and bake. Eat it hot at breakfast or supper. It will bake in a shallow pan in half an hour; if in a deep vessel allow more time. MUFFIN PUDDING (1). Boil a small \ piece of lemon-peel, a little cinnamon and sugar about eight or ten minutes in a pint of milk. Put three mufiins into a large basin, strain over them the milk, and when cold mash the whole with a wooden spoon. Pound about 1 oz. of blanched almonds; mix them well in, with about \ lb. of any dry preserved fruit, such as apricots, cherries, or plums, a little gi-ated nutmeg, three yolks of eggs beaten, and two table-spoonsful each of brandy and orange- flower water. Bake the pudding with puff paste round the dish, or you may boil it tied up in a basin. Currants may be substituted for the preserved fruit. 1 MUFFIN PUDDING (2). Take a pint and a half of milk, add to it a few coriander seeds, a bit of lemon-peel, sugar according to taste, and boil them together for ten minutes; then put four muffins into a pan, strain the milk over them, and when they are cold mash them with a wooden spoon ; add half a gill of brandy, ^ lb. of dried cherries, a little grated nutmeg, j 2 ozs. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded extremely fine, and six eggs well beaten. Mix all these together, and boil in a basin ; or bake it in a dish with paste all round it. MUFFINS (1), Mix 2 lbs. of flour with a I couple of eggs, 2 ozs. of butter melted in a ' pint of milk, and four or five spoonsful of yeast; beat up thoroughly, and set it to rise for i two or three hours. Bake it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and turn them when done on one side. i MUFFINS (2). Take two .quai'ts of warm 4MUL [ 223 ] water, two spoonsful of yeast, and 3 lbs. of flour ; Leat it well for half an hour, and let it stand an hour or two. Bake the mufBns on an iron baking stone, rubbing it well over with mutton suet as often as they are laid on. As soon as they begin to colour turn them : they will be suffi- ciently baked when coloured on both sides. MUFFINS OF BOILED MILK. Boil a quart of new milk, and pour it boiling hot on as much flour as will make a thick batter; put in a table-spoonful of butter, the same of lard, two tea-spoonsful of salt, half a tea-cupful of yeast, and one egg beaten; allow the mixture to rise from six to eight hours, and when perfectly light set it in a cool place till you are ready to bake, when you may use rings or not as you please ; but be sure, if you do, to butter the rings. MUFFINS OF COLD WATER. Sift a quart of flour, add to it a little salt, a large spoonful of yeast, and beat the white of a fresh egg to a froth. After mixing the flour up with cold water into a soft dough, add the egg, and set it in a moderately warm place. Next morning beat it well with a spoon, and put it on the bake iron in round cakes. When one side is nicely Drown turn them, keep them hot till sent to lable, and split and butter them. If you wish to have muffins for tea they should be made up early in the morning. MUFFINS OF CREAM. Take a quart of sour cream, two eggs well beaten, and a tea- spoonful of salt. Stir the eggs into the cream gradually, add sifted flour enough to make a thick batter, dissolve a tea-spoonful of bicar- bonate of potass in as much vinegar as will cover it, and stir it in at the last. Bake in small cakes on the griddle, or in muffin rings in the dripping-pan of a stove. MUFFINS, MANSFIELD. Take a quart of milk, three eggs, i lb. of butter or lard, a tea- cupful of yeast, and flour enough to make a soft dough. Beat the whites of the eggs alone, the yolks with the milk; melt the butter, and stir it in after all is mixed. Bake them in rings or in round cakes on the griddle. Split and butter them before sending to table. MUFFINS OF RICE. Pour a quart of milk on four heaped spoonsful of rice flour, stir well, and put in a little salt and wheat flour to make it a proper consistence, two eggs, and two spoonsful of yeast. Allow it four hours to rise, and bake in rings; or thin it, and bake as MUFFINS, SMITH. Boll a quart of new milk, have 3 lbs. of flour, three eggs well beaten, -J lb. of lard, and a table-spoonful of salt. Rub the lard in the flour, and while the milk is still warm, but not hot, stir it in the flour; put in the eggs and a tea-cupful of good yeast. Beat all well, and set the mixture in a warm place to rise. When light it should be set in a cool place till you are ready to bake the muffins, which should be in round cakes or rings on the bake iron, in a Dutch oven, or the dripping-pan of a stove. Butter them just as you send them to table. If the batter is put in a cold place it will keep good for two days in winter. Before baking muffins, or any other kind of light cakes, taste the batter, and if it is at all sour put in a small portion of bicarbonate of potash, previously dissolved in hot water. In this way superior muffins may be made. MUFFINS, MUSH. Make a quart of mush, put into it a lump of butter or lard the size of two eggs, and a little salt. Previously to making the mush have ready a pint of light yeast rising, stir into it a pint of new milk and the mush, with as much wheat flour as will make it a very thick batter. Let it rise four or five horn's, and when light set it in a cold place till you are ready to bake. Dip a spoon in water each time, and put the batter on the griddle in small cakes, or bake in rings. You may make it a little stiffer, and roll it out to bake in large cakes. If it should be sour put in a little bicar- bonate of potash. If you have no milk water will do instead. They will be nice toasted. MUFFINS, YORKSHIRE. Take 2 lbs. of flour with a little salt, warm a pint of new milk, mix a part of it with four large spoonsful of fresh yeast, and melt 2 ozs. of butter in the remainder. Put it in the flour with two well-beaten eggs, and when the yeast is settled add it to the flour, and mix all well together. Beat the dough with a wooden spoon twenty minutes, make it up into balls on a board well dredged, lay a cloth in a tray on the hearth, dredge it well with flour, and as you make them up lay them on at a proper distance from each other, in order that they may not run together in rising; cover them with a cloth, and in about twenty minutes have your tins hot; lay them on quickly, and shape them a little with your fingers. Bake them in a quick oven, and watch them well. A tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of potash, dissolved in a little of the milk, and mixed up with the dough, adds much to the lightness, and is a wholesome addition. MULBERRIES : To Preserve. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan, and draw from it, over the fire, a pint of juice. Take 3 lbs. of pounded sugar, wet it with the juice, then boil it up, skim it, and put in 2 lbs. of ripe mulberries ; let them stand in the syrup till warm through, and then set them on the fire to boil gently. When lialf done put them by in the syrup till next day, then-boil them as before, and when the syrup is thick, and will stand in round drops on becoming cold, they may be put into pots for use.MUL [ 224 ] MUL MULBERRY PUDDING. Make a paste of I lb. of flour, 4 ozs. of beef suet chopped very finel}', and hot water, with a little salt. Roll it out upon a board, then line with it a basin, which till with very ripe mulberries ; cover with paste, tie the whole tightly in a pudding cloth, plunge it in boiling water, and let it boil an hour or two according to its size. MULBERRY WINE. Take mulberries when they are just changed from their redness to shiny black; gather them on a dry day when the sun has taken off the dew, spread them thinly on a fine cloth on a floor or table for twenty-four hours, and boil up a gallon of water to each gallon of juice. Skim the water well, and add a little cinnamon slightly bruised. Put to every gallon C ozs. of white sugar candy finely beaten. Skim and strain the water when it is taken off and settled, put to it the juice of the mulberi'ies, and to every gallon of the mix- ture put a pint of white or Rhenish wine. Let the whole stand five or six days in a cask to settle, then draw off the wine, and keep it cool. This is a very rich cordial. MULLED ALE. See Ale. MULLED JELLY. Take a table-spoonful of currant jelly, and beat with it the white of an egg and a little loaf sugar; pour on it half a pint of boiling water, and break in a slice of dry toast or two crackers. MULLED WINE (1). Put into a pint of port wine two or three cloves and a bit of cinnamon; boil it for a few moments, take out the spice, sweeten it with loaf sugar, and grate in a little nutmeg. Serve with a slice of toasted bread, the crust pared off, and cut into oblong pieces. The port wine is sometimes boiled with a third of its quantity of water. MULLED WINE (2). Boil some spice and sugar in a little water thoroughly till well flavoured, and then add an equal quantity of wine. Serve it with toasted bread. British ■wine may be used, regard being had to the quality. Some put into the mulled wine the yolks of eggs well beaten, mixed with a little cold water, and then pour backwards and for- wards from the basin to the saucepan. MULLED WINE (3). Beat together an egg, a glass of wine, and a spoonful of sugar; pour on it half a pint of hot water, stimng all the time to keep it from curdling, and when you pour it in a tumbler grate a little nutmeg over it. MULLETS: To Choose. The sea mullet is preferable to the river mullet, and the red to the grey. They shpuld be very firm, and the belly have a clear silvery line running along it. From the melt of the males and the roe of the females botargo is made. MULLETS, BOILED. Boil mullets in salt and water. When they are done pour away part of the water, and put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, nutmeg, beaten mace, and the juice of a lemon. Boil these well together with two or three anchovies; then put in the fish, and when they have sim- mered in it some time put them into a dish, and strain the sauce over them. Shrimps or oysters may be added. MULLETS, BROILED. Scale and gut them, and cut gashes in their sides; dip them in melted butter, and broil them at a great distance from the fire. Serve with anchovy sauce, with capers, and a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon. MULLETS, FRIED. Scale and gut them, pour some mulled butter into a deep dish, score the mullets across the back, and dip them into the butter ; then put some butter in a saucepan, clarify it, and fry the mullets in it. When they are done lay them on a warm dish, and serve with anchovy sauce. MULLETS, GREY. These when in season are very rich, good fish, but not equal to the red. They are generally found in the season near the fresh water. The best way of dressing them is by baking them in a pie ; or roasting or baking them with a pudding in their belly, putting them in a tureen with some good gravy. MULLETS, RED. These are very delicious fish, and are commonly called sea woodcocks. They are dressed with their entrails in, which are like marrow itself. They only want scraping, to be washed tenderly with a cloth, and bi-oiled in a buttered paper. They are so rich the)' scarcely require sauce. But a sauce, if desired, may be made of the liquor which comes from the fish, adding a bit of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry; give it a boil, serve it iu a sauce-boat, and the fish in paper cases. MULLIGATAWNY. The following receipt for preparing mulligatawny may be depended on as the genuine mode adopted at Madras, and has been furnished to us by a friend who passed upwards of thirty years in India:—Cut up a fowl, duck, rabbit, beef, or mutton, and simmer the same in two quarts of water for a quarter of an hour. Then prepare the following ingre- dients, previously bruising the spices iu a mortar, and rejecting the husks :—J oz. of Lima turmeric, ^ oz. of Cayenne pepper, IJoz. of cori^ ander seed, \ oz. of cassia, 2 drachms 2 scruples of black pepper, six cloves of garlic cut fine, and six tea-spoonsful of pease flour high dried or baked. Pour over these half a pint of boiling water, strain through a fine sieve or cloth, add a table-spoonful of butter, and put the whole to the fowl. Have ready three middle-sized onions[ 225 1 MUS MUL cut thin and fried, add these, and simmer the whole together for half an hour, adding, during the last five minutes, the juice of a lemon. The soup will then be ready, and about the con- sistence of cream. It should be served in a tureen quite hot, and eaten with rice or curry. It is considered an excellent stomachic. When a large quantity of soup is required a propor- tionate quantity of ingredients should be pro- vided, the above being sufficient for a good- sized fowl or meat of that weight. More or less water may be used at the onset, but never added during the preparation of the mulliga- tawny. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP (1). Take a very well-made rich soup of meat or fowl, mix into a little of it the necessary quantity of curry powder to make it quite smooth, return it into the saucepan, and let it boil well, stirring it often. Slice and fry some onions of a nice colour, and put them in, with a clove of garlic and a few pounded almonds, which must be also first mixed with a little of the soup or cream. Add a little lemon pickle, mango ,iuice, or any other acid, according to taste. Meat of any kind may be served in this soup, and diy rice, as with other curries. Vegetable, fish, or game soups make it equally good : game is preferable to any other when the proper seasonings are attended to. As the curry in- gredients destroy much of the mellowness, its goodness therefore depends on the richness of the soup, and this is not generally sufficiently attended to. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP (2). Put i lb. of fresh butter, with six large onions sliced, three cloves of garlic, some chopped parsley, and sweet marjoram, into a stewpan, and let them stew over a slow fire till of a light brown colour. Cut in small pieces 5 lbs. of lean beef, let that stew till the gravy is extracted, then put in three quarts of boiling water and ^ lb. of Scotch barley, and simmer four hours very slowly. Mix four table-spoonsful of curry powder with cold water, and add it to the stock; take out the beef, and rub the barley through a sieve to thicken the soup. Cut a fowl in joints, skin it, put it in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and let it stew till quite tender: the stewpan must be kept closely covered. This should be added to the soup the last thing, with a pint of boiling milk and the juice of two lemons. Boiled rice must also be served with this soup. MUM. See Brunswick Mum. MUMPS. This disease chiefly affects the children of the lower orders. It is generally infectious, and manifestly contagious. It is known by an external movable swelling, arising most commonly on both sides of the neck, but YOL. ir. in some instances confined to one. The swell ing usually continues to increase until the fourth day. From that period it declines, and in a few days more goes off entirely, when the disposition to fever also subsides. As the swell- ing of the throat disappears, it not unfrequently happens that some tumours affect the testicles in the male sex, or the breasts in the female ; but these also, for the most part, go away in a few days. There is seldom, however, much to be appre- hended from this disease, unless the brain or its membranes are affected. It does not often re- quire the assistance of medicine ; and all that is generally requisite is to keep the head and face warm, to guard against taking cold, and to open the bowels with the mildest cooling laxative medicines. But should the tumour in the neck suddenly disappear, and the febrile symptoms increase, its return must be promoted by warm fomentations and stimulating liniments : for in- stance, the strong liniment of ammonia, taking internally one of the following powders every four hours to abate the fever, viz.:—Take of nitrate of potass (nitre), I drachm; tartarised antimony, H grain. Mix them together, and divide them into six powders. Should the testicles be affected, and are much swollen, suppuration must be prevented by all possible means, by bleeding generally and locally, purgatives, cooling discutient applications, and the parts suspended in a bag truss or handker- chief. The same means are to be adopted when the female breast becomes hardened and swelled from a retrocession of a tumour in the neck. MUSCADINE ICES. Put 1 oz. of elder flowers into a teapot, or any vessel having a tight-fitting lid ; pour on them about half a pint of boiling water, then put on the lid, and let them draw for about half an hour. Make a com- position precisely as if it were a lemon ice. To this composition add the infusion of elder flowers, pass the whole through a sieve, and put it in a sarbotiere to congeal. MUSCLE SOUP WITH MUSHROOMS. Prepare meat, vegetable, or fish stock, and season it well without salt, as the juice of the shell fish generally makes it salt enough. Boil the parings and stalks of the mushrooms in it, rub down some of the muscles with mushrooms for a thickening, and rub the thickening through a tarais with a little of the soup. Every quart of soup will require half a pint of oysters, more or less, according to the size and quantity of the mushrooms used. If they are not all buttons of the same size they ought to be cut, and should be cooked white in butter, or slowly in the stock, as they take a long time. All fish soups should be heightened with catsup, anchovies, lemon pickle, soy, &c.[ 226 ] MUS MUS MUSCLES : To Eagout. Put the muscles into a saucepan, and stew them till they open ; then take them out of the shells, and save the liquor. Lay in the pan a piece of butter, a few chopped mushrooms, a little parsley, and grated lemon-peel; stir the whole together, adding some gravy, pepper, and salt; thicken it with flour, boil it up, put in the muscles, with their liquoi% and when hot serve them up. There is a poi- sonous quality in some muscles, which is said to arise fi-ora the presence of a small crab, and which should always be removed before they are dressed ; but, from whatever cause this poisonous property may arise, it may be detected by putting into the pan a piece of silver, which will be dis- coloured if the fish are unwholesome. MUSCLES : To Stew. Wash them in several waters, put them in a stewpan, and cover them closely. Let them stew till the shells open, then pick out the muscles, and examine under the tongue of each to see if there be a small crab, and if there is throw it away. Pick off likewise the tough membrane under the tongue ; then put the muscles into a saucepan, adding to every quart of fish half a pint of the liquor strained through a sieve ; put in a few blades of mace, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and stew them gently. Lay some toasted bread in the dish, pour the muscles on it, and serve them up. MUSH, or Polenta. To two quarts of boil- ing water, with a little salt in it, take 1 lb. of Indian-corn meal; let it fall carefully from one hand into the boiling water, while you stir it constantly with a slice held in the other hand ; let it boil three quarters of an hour, keeping it stirred all the time, and taking care that it does not burn. When boiled pour the mush into a deep dish. It may either be eaten hot with milk, or remain till cold, then turned out of the dish upside down, when it will be quite solid. It is very good cold ; also cut in slices and fried in butter, to which fried onions and sage, with a little parsley, may be added, with pepper and salt. A slice laid in a cheese-toaster, with cheese upon it, either sliced or scraped, makes an excellent Welsh rarebit. MUSH CAKES. To make mush cakes take a quart of cold mush, mix in it half a pint of wheat flour, and a little butter or lard. Make it up into little cakes with your hands, flour them, and bake them on a griddle or in a drip- ping-pan. MUSH FLANNEL CAKES. Mix one pmt of mush with two of wheat flour, a spoonful of butter or lard, two eggs, and half a tea-cupful of yeast. Make it into a batter with water or milk, and bake like buckwheat cakes MUSH, FRIED. Fried mush is a good plam dessert, eaten with sugar and cream. Cut the cold mush in slices half an inch thick, or m:ike tliem into small cakes, dip them in flour, and fry them in hot lard. MUSH ROLLS. Take a pint of Indian- corn meal, pour on it three pints of boiling water, Stirling it as you pour ; put in 3 ozs. of lard, a table-spoonful of salt, and when milk- warm put in two table-spoonsful of yeast; then mix in wheat flour, and make it a soft dough; cover the pan closely, set it in a warm place till it begins to rise, and as soon as light set it in a cold place. Mould the rolls out an hour before you bake them, and allow them to rise in the dripping-pan. It will do to bake in a large cake rolled out. MUSHROOM CATSUP. See Ketchup, MUSHEOOM. MUSHROOM POWDER. After the mush rooms have been dried whole they may be set before the fire till crisp; then grind and sift them through a fine sieve, and preserve in small bottles closely corked. MUSHROOM SALAD. Cut your mush- rooms into dice, which put into a saucepan with oil, and a slice or two of peeled lemon ; simmer a short time, then drain, and let them cool. When quite cold put them into a salad dish, with chopped parsley, shallots, pepper, and salt. Prepare them like other salads with oil and vinegar. MUSHROOMS. The mushrooms used in cookery are either cultivated artificially, or ai'e found growing wild in open pasture land. Those that grow near or under trees are generally poisonous. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk, and are hence called buttons. They grow very rapidly, and the upper part and stalk are white. As they increase in size the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edge and middle, and whether they have a pleasant smell. Those which are poisonous have a yellow skin, and the under part has not the clear flesh colour of the real mushroom; besides which they smell rank and disagreeable, and the fur is white or yellow. Besides the several poisonous miishrooms resembling this species there is a variety of the tubei which, although an innocuous catsup may be made from them, yet are dangerous to be eaten, being highly indigestible, and apt to swell in the stomach, producing very painful and dangerous consequences. The best way to test the quality of mushrooms is to introduce a silver spoon, or a new shilling, a sixpence, or an onion into a vessel in which mushrooms ai-e seething. If, ooMUS MUS [ 227 ] talsing either of these out, it assumes a dark- coloured appearance, the circumstance denotes the presence of poison existing among the mush- rooms ; if, on the other hand, the metal or onion, on being withdrawn from the liquor, wears its natural appearance, the mushrooms may be re- garded as genuine and of the right sort. Considered as an article of food mushrooms are by no means wholesome or nourishing. Being tough, and greatly resembling soft leather, they are almost indigestible, and ought not to be eaten by persons of weak or inactive stomachs. MUSHROOMS : To Dry. Wipe them quite clean, take out the brown, pare off the skin of the large ones, lay them on paper, and j^ut them in a cool oven to dry. Keep them in paper bags in a very dry place. When wanted for use simmer them in gravy, and they will swell to nearly their former size ; or you may simmer them in their own liquor till it dries up in them, shaking the pan ; then dry them on tin plates, with spice or not, as you think proper. Tie down with a bladder, or keep them iu a dry place or in paper. MUSHROOMS, BROILED. Choose the largest sort, pepper and salt them well, lay them on a small gridiron with the stalk upwards, broil them rather quickly, and serve them with good gravy. MUSHROOMS EN CANNELON. Chop some mushrooms into dice, put them into a stewpan, with shred parsley, scallions, shallots, and some butter. When a little browned add stock, pepper, and salt; simmer till the mush- rooms are done and the sauce pretty thick; then put in the yolks of three eggs and a little lemon juice, and set it by to cool. In the mean- time roll some paste very thin, cut it in pieces, in each of which put some of the above; moisten the edges, and roll them up in the form of short sausages. Flour and fry them. MUSHROOMS WITH CREAM. Choose those which are small, and boil them a few minutes in some good cream sauce; toast the crust of a rasped French roll, fill it with the mushrooms, turn it over on the dish, and pour the remainder over it. MUSHROOMS WITH CRUST. Take some mushrooms, and wash, but do not peel them ; then put them, with a few spoonsful of good oil, into a frying-pan, and heat them for seven or eight minutes over a good fire. Whilst they are cooking add pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, shred parsley, and shallots ; then pour the whole over a fried crust, and serve immediately. MUSHROOMS, FRICASSEED. Peel some mushrooms—if they are large cut them in pieces —wash them in cold water with some vinegar, and blanch them; afterwards dip them again into cold water, and wipe them dry ; then heat them over the fire with a bit of butter rolled in flour, ^ some salt, pepper, and a bunch of parsley. Moisten with hot water or stock, and just before serving thicken with the yolk of an egg and half a tea-spoonful of vinegar. MUSHROOMS, PICKLED (1). Button mushrooms should be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt, and from the larger ones take out the red insides: when they are black they will not do, being too old. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and put them into a stewpan, with some mace and pepper. As the liquor comes out shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will be sufficient to cover them, give them one warm, and turn the whole into a glass or stone jar. They will keep for two years. MUSHROOMS, PICKLED (2). Cut oft the stalks of some small button mushrooms, rub the skins off with flannel dipped in salt, and then throw them into milk and water. Drain them out, and then put them into a stewpan, strewing over them a handful of salt; cover them closely, and put them into a gentle stove for five minutes to draw out all the water ; then put them on a coarse cloth to drain till they are cold. MUSK is secreted in a small bag or sack by an animal called Moschus moschiferus. Form, grains concreted together, dry, yet slightly unctuous ; colour, deep brown, with a shade of red ; odour, aromatic, peculiar, diffusive, and durable ; and it has the curious property, when added in a minute quantity, to augment the odour of other perfumes without imparting its own : this renders it a valuable article in per- fumery, on which account it is a usual ingre- dient in lavender water. Taste, bittei'isli and heavy. Boiling water dissolves it perfectly; rectified spirit takes up most of its active parts, although the odour is only discovered upon dilution ; but sulphuric ether is its most complete menstruum. It is stimulant and antispasmodic. As early as the time of Meade it was employed in typhus fever. Pringle administered it in gout of the stomach, a practice which received the concurrence of Cullen. Conjoined with ammonia it has been celebrated for its powers in arresting the progress of gangrene, and of imparting fresh excitement to the nervous system. It has been also administered with success in epilepsy, hooping cough, and other spasmodic affections. The best form is that of bolus, combined with ammonia or camphor, or some other similar remedy. It may be also administered in a mixture, for which purpose it requires five times its weight of mucilage. By previously triturating it with sugar its minutfiMUS MU S [ 9.18 ] division is mucli facilitated. Dose, 10 to 80 « grains. Artificial muslf, strongly resembling the real, may be formed by digesting 1^ fluid oz. of nitric acid for ten days upon 1 oz. of fetid • animal oil obtained by distillation ; to this is to be next gradually added 1 pint of rectified spirit, and the whole is then to be left to digest for one month. Or, drop 3J- fluid drachms of nitric acid upon 1 fluid drachm of rectified oil of amber : after standing twenty-four hours a black, resinous pellicle, exhaling the odour of musk, will be formed. MUSK FOR LIQUEURS. Take 2 grains of musk and J lb. of sugar, pound them in a mortar, and mix them well. Keep it in a closely stopped bottle. The quantity required of this is one pinch to four or five quarts of liqueur. Ambergris is prepared in a similar manner ; but, being less powerful than the musk, 4 grains is the proportion to } lb. of sugar. MUSTARD: To Keep. To keep mustard dissolve 3 ozs. of salt in a quart of boiling water, and pour it hot on 2 ozs. of scraped horseradish ; cover the jar very closely, and let it stand twenty-four hours ; then strain it, and mix it by degrees with the best flour of mustard and water well together till the whole is quite smooth, and of a proper thickness. Put it into a wide-mouthed bottle, and stop it closely. MUSTARD : To Make (1). Take some of the best flour of mustard, and mix it by degrees to a proper thickness with boiling water, rub- bing it extremely smooth ; add a little salt, keep it in a small jar closely covered, and only put as much into the mustard-pot as will be used in a few days. The mustard-pot should be daily wiped round the edges. MUSTARD: To Make (2). Mix by de- grees the flour of mustard with cold water in which horseradish has been boiled, and rub well together in a mortar tfll it is perfectly smooth; then keep it in a stone jar closely stopped, putting into your pot for table as much as will be wanted for immediate use. MUSTARD: To Make French. The mustard used for table by the French differs materially from that used in England; for vinegar, more or less, enters into the composi- tion, and the grain itself is not the same ; the finer sorts have also the addition of aromatic herbs. Some of the French mustards are very agreeable, particularly with cold meat. The common domestic mustard is made with the grain of seneve, a' mustard seed darker than the Eiiglish. It is ground up with vinegar on a stone slab, and put into pots for use : when herbs are used they are steeped with the vinegar with which the mustard is ground up. The choice of the herbs varies with the manu- facturers. Some use thyme, mint, tarragon, and garlic ; others make a different selection, and the flavour of the mustard will depend upon the taste with which one or more of them are combined. Tlie English cooks who wish to make French mustard must provide themselves with proper materials—the seneve tansy, or French mustard seed, which, being reduced to powder, should be mixed up with French vinegar also, which may be had of most oilmen or grocers. Any of the herbs may be used for giving the special zest required. White mustard seed is never used by the French at table, although great quantities of it are used medicinally. MUSTARD FOR IMMEDIATE USE. Take some mustard, and by degrees mix it quite smooth with new milk, adding a little cream. Mixed in this manner it will keep: it is very soft, and not in the least bitter. MUSTARD SAUCE. Put two glasses of stock, shallots shred small, salt, and pepper into a saucepan; let them boil for half an hour, then add a spoonful of mustard, stir it in well, and use the sauce when required. MUSTARD SEED, a few years since, was recommended and adopted veiy commonly as a medicine, and one who declared that he had greatly benefited by it wrote as follows:— " The mustard seed is always to be swallowed whole, not broken or masticated, and either alone or in a little water or other liquid, warm or cold, and the best general rules for taking it are the following:—Generally speaking, three doses should be taken every day without inter- mission ; the first about an hour before break- fast, the second about an hour after dinner, and the third either at bedtime or an hour before. Those who dine so late as six or seven o'clock should take the second dose at two or three o'clock in the afternoon, and the third about an hour after dinner. Each dose should contain that quantity which, in the wiiole, is fnund sufficient to produce a healthy evacuation of the bowels every day. Two or three large tea-spoonsful in each dose will generally produce this effect, though, with some constitutions, much smaller doses will answ'er the purpose; but, should that quantity fail, each dose may be increased to a table-spoonful, and in some instances a fourth table-spoonful may safely be added between breakfast and dinner. When this quantity fails to produce the desired effect on the bowels (a circumstance which very rarely occurs), it will be proper to assist the operation of the seed with a httle Epsom salts or other mild aperient, taken every morning, or every second or third morning, as occasion may re- quire, instead of the first dose of the seed, for the space of ten days or a fortnight, or such longer period as may be found necessary. And[ 229 ] MUT MUS if the patient be troubled with piles, it will be advisable to relieve the bowels occasionally with a small tea-spoonful of milk of sulphur, aud an equal quantity of magnesia, mixed together in a little millv or water, taken at bedtime, either with or after the last dose of the seed. " In palsy, asthma, ague, diseases of the liver, rheumatism, and worms, the seed should be taken somewhat more freely than in other cases, and, in instances of long standing and great obstinacy, to the extent of four or five large table-spoonsful in the course of each day, if the bowels will bear that quantity without much inconvenience; and in these, as in other cases, the patient must have recourse to Epsom salts or any other mild aperient, or to the mixture of sulphur and magnesia if necessary. When the seed is taken as a preventive by persons of consumptive and delicate habits, or otherwise coustitutionally susceptible of cold, or by others for the purpose of preventing the recurrence of disease of any kind, or as a remedy for costive- ness or any slight attack of disease, a single dose taken every day about an hour before breakfast, or, which is generally to be preferred, about an hour after dinner, will very frequently accomplish the proposed object, provided it be sufficient in quantity to keep the bowels in a uniformly open and comfortable state. " A steady daily perseverance in the use of the mustard seed, according to the rules above recommended, for the space of two, three, or four months, and in many instances for a much shorter period, will seldom fail to convince the patient of the extraordinary efficacy and singular value of this very safe, cheap, and simple medicine." MUSTAED WHEY. Take of the best white mustard seed 3 ozs., and boil it gently in three pints of water till reduced to one; then add one pint of skim milk, and this produces the whey. Strain it through a sieve to separate the whey from the curd, and take a tea-cupful lukewarm night and morning. This is a most desirable way of administering mustard; it ■warms and invigorates the system, promotes the different secretions, and in the low state of nei"vous fevers will often supply the place of wine. It is also of use in chronic rheumatism, asthma, palsy, and dropsy. MUSTINESS. This smell and flavour arise from a minutfe fungus, whether in flour, beer casks, or elsewhere. It can only be removed from casks by having not merely their inside, but the edges of the staves charred. Flour may have mustiness removed from it by mixing a tea-spoonful of carbonate of magnesia with every half-peck previously to preparing it for the oven or pot, whether as bread or as pie or pudding crust. MUTTON. The best and most nutritious mutton is that of sheep which are at least three, but not more than six years old, and which have been reared on dry, sweet pastures. The meat afforded by such as have been fed on salt marshes, or near the seacoast, is likewise sweet and wholesome, for it acquires both firmness and a fine flavour from the saline particles abounding in such situations. The flesh of ewes, and especially of wethers that have not been kept above the age already stated, is of a rich and invigorating nature, while that of rams is not only tough and coarse, but also has a strong, unpleasant taste. Young meat abounds with sweet juices, and is easy of digestion, though, if under three years of age, it seldom attains its peculiar relish, and is generally somewhat ropy. In choosing mutton regard must be had not to select it too large nor too fat, but thick, fine grained, and well coloured. That which is sold in the markets is often little else than lamb overgrown, w-hich, having attained its size, is sold to save another year's keep; and as to its being known by the port-wine gravy it is absurd, as, if the meat is little done, so will be the gravy. Mountain mutton is diff'erent, because the farmer can clear a profit by the wool, so that the sheep are allowed to attain a riper age. Ewe mutton, in spite of all that is said against it, if it can be kept long enough to tender the muscle, is often so much higher flavoured from age as to be taken for venison. By some mutton is not considered to be in per- fection till it is nearly or quite five j'ears old. In marketing pinch the flesh, and if it feels tender and elastic it is young ; but if it wrinkles, and continues so, it is a sign of its being old. The fat of young mutton will easily separate from the lean, but not so when old; besides which the one will be firm in consistence, and the other clammy and fibrous. The fat of ram mutton is particularly stringy, the grain of the meat is close, and of a deep red colour, and when pressed with the finger it will not rise again. The flesh of a sheep that has had the rot will be pale ; the fat of a deadly white, in- clining to a yellowish colour ; the lean will be loose at the bone, and upon being squeezed will exude a watery appearance on the surface. Ob- serve also that wether mutton is the better for age, and that the flesh of the ewe is to be dis- tinguished from every other by the peculiar delicacy of its texture and the paleness of its colour. When mutton comes in from the butcher take out the kei-nel from the leg, and the spinal man'ow, which last must be instantly cooked in butter, and preserved for use. Do not touch any part of it with salt, even if spoiled. The best preserver is acid, and in some cases pepper[ S30 ] MUT MUT MUTTON BROTH (1). Take 2 lbs. of of the neck, and from the middle of the leg. and ginger. Ground roasted coffee is also a very excellent antiseptic. The leg spoils sooner than any other joint of mutton, to prevent which take out tlie kernel from the fat. The neck will keep well if the pipe be cut out from along the chine-bone. Take out the kernel from the shoulder. Cut the skirt out of the breast. The carcass of the sheep consists of the follow- ing parts:— 1. The leg. 2. Best end of loin. 3. Chump end of loin. 4. Best end of neck. 5. Scrag end of neck. 6. Shoulder. 7. Breast. A cldne is the two loins. A saddle is the two necks. The leg and the loin are the superior joints, and the preference would probably be given more frequently to the latter but for the super- abundance of its fat, which renders it a not very economical dish. The haunch consists of the leg and the part of the loin adjoining it; the saddle of the two loins together, or of the undivided back of the sheep. These last are always roasted, and are served usually at good tables, or for company dinners, instead of the smaller joints. The shoulder, dressed in the ordinary way, is not very highly esteemed; but when boned, rolled, and filled with forcemeat, it is of more presentable appearance, and, to many tastes, far better eating, though some persons prefer it in its natural form, accompanied with stewed onions. It is occasionally boiled or stewed, and covered with rich onion sauce. The neck is sometimes roasted, but it is more generally boiled. The scrag, or that part of the neck adjoining the bead, is seldom used for any other purpose than making broth,'and shoufd be taken off before the joint is dressed. Chops from the thick end of the loin are commonly preferred to any others; but they are frequently taken likewise from the best end MUTTON : To Ragout. Cut from a leg of mutton some thin slices the right way of the grain, and pare off the skin and fat. Put a little butter into a stewpan, shake some tiour over it, add thereto some slices of lemon, half an onion cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a blade of mace. Put these with the meat into the pan, and stir them five or six minutes, after which add half a pint of gravy, with an anchovy minced, and a little butter rolled in flour. Stir the whole well, and when it has stewed about ten minutes serve it up, garnished with lemon and pickles. MUTTON, BEKOBBED. Take the fat and skin from a loin of mutton, joint it com- pletely, and mix some grated nutmeg with salt and pepper, bread crumbs, and herbs ; dip the steaks in the yolk of an egg, and sprinkle the mixture over them. Next place them together as they were before their separation, tie them, and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them be fore a quick fire, set a dish under them, bastf them with butter and the liquor produced by the meat, and throw some more of the seasoning over them. When done take up the mutton, have ready half a pint of good gravy, and put into it two spoonsful of catsup ; rub down with it a tea-spoonful of flour, give the whole a boil, and pour it over the mutton, after skimming off the fat. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, BREAST OF (Boiled). Boil the mutton, and afterwards broil it, having first strewed it over with shred parsley and young onions, some salt, pepper, and grated bread crumbs. MUTTON, BREAST OF (Collaked). Take out the bone and gristle, and then make a forcemeat with bread crumbs, parsley, and sweet herbs chopped finely, and seasoned with salt and pepper; rub the mutton with yolk of egg, and spread the forcemeat over it; roll it up, tie it tightly with tape or string, and boil two hours. If it be eaten hot make a gravy of the bones, two onions, herbs, and seasoning ; strain, thicken it with butter and flour, add vinegar and mushroom catsup to flavour it, and pour over the mutton. If to be eaten cold do not remove the string till the mutton is wanted. MUTTON, BREAST OF (Roasted with Wine). Skin and bone a breast of mutton, and then roll it up in a collar like a breast of veal; roast it, and baste it with half a pint of red wine. When you have used up all the wine finish basting with butter. Have a little good gravy in readiness, and when the mutton is done set it upright in a dish; pour on the gravy, prepare sweet sauce the same as for venison, and send it up to table without any garnish.MUT I 231 ] MUT a eerng of mutton, and put it into a stewpan, covering it with cold water, which, when it has become milk-warm, must be poured off and skimmed ; then put it in again, with four or five additional pints of water, a tea-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of grits or pearl barley, and an onion; set it over a slow fire, and when the scum is all taken off put in two or three turnips; then let the whole simmer slowly two hours, and strain the liquor through a sieve. If it is to be thickened add some oatmeal, rice, or Scotch barley. MUTTON BROTH (2). Cut a neclt of mutton into pieces, preserving a handsome piece to be served up in the tureen ; put all into a stewpan, with three quarts of cold beef stock, or water with a little oatmeal mixed in it, some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and parsley. When it boils skim it clear, and when nearly done take out the piece you intend serving in the tureen, and let the other pieces stew till tender ; then have ready turnips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a cabbage, some parsley (all cut small), and some marigolds ; wash them, strain the liquor off the meat, skim it free from the fat, add it to the ingredients, with the piece of mutton intended for the tureen, and a little pearl barley. Season with salt, simmer the whole together tili done, and serve with toasted brSid on a plate. MUTTON BROTH FOR THE SICK. Have H llj- of neck or loin of mutton, take off the skin and the fat, and put it into a saucepan; cover it with cold water (about a quart to 1 lb. of meat), let it simmer very gently, and skim it well; cover it up, and set it over a moderate fire, where it may stand gently stewing for about an hour, and then strain it off. It should be allowed to become cold, when all the greasy particles will float on the surface, and, becoming hard, can be easily taken off, and the settlings will remain at the bottom. The meat must be done no more than just sufficiently to be eaten, so that a sick person may have plenty of good broth for nothing, as by this manner of producing it the meat furnishes also a good family meal. This is an inoffensive nourish- ment for sick persons, and the only mutton broth that should be given to convalescents, whose constitutions require replenishing with restorative aliment of easy digestion. The com- mon way of making it with roots, onions, sweet herbs, &c., is too strong for weak stomachs. Plain broth will agree with a delicate stomach, when the least addition of other ingredients would immediately offend it. MUTTON, CAPILLOTADE OF. Cut the remains of a quarter of mutton into pieces, and put them into a pan, with salt, pepper, nutmeg, ■white wine, stock, and a dessert-spoonful of olive oil. When about half done add 2 ozs. of raspings, cover the saucepan closely, and let it boil slowly for three or four hours ; then pour it on a dish, with its liquor and the juice of a Seville orange. MUTTON CHOPS. Cut the chops off a loin or the best end of a neck of mutton, pare off the fat, dip them into a beaten egg, and strew over them grated bread, seasoned with some pepper, salt, and some finely minced parsley; fry them in a little butter, and lay them upon the back of a sieve to drain before the fire. Thicken about half a pint of gravy, add a table-spoonful of catsup, and one of port wine ; put the gravy into a dish, and lay in the chops. Garnish with fried parsley or cut lemon MUTTON CHOPS, BAKED. Cut a neck of mutton into neat chops, and season them with salt and pepper; butter a dish, lay in the chops, and pour over them a batter made of a quart of milk, four eggs beaten up, four table-spoonsful of flour, and a little salt. An hour will bake them. MUTTON CHOPS, BROILED. Cut them about half an inch thick, and if from the loin cut off the skin and part of the fat; let the gridiron be hot, and then, having rubbed it with suet, put on the chops, and keep them turned very quickly. Take great care to prevent the fat from raising a smoke, and therefore it will be advisable to hold the gridiron in a slanting position. When done lay the chops oir a hot dish, and rub them with butter; slice a shallot very thin into a spoonful of water, and pour it on them, together with a spoonful of catsup. Serve them hot, with horseradish and pickles. MUTTON CHOPS AND CUCUMBERS. Cut cucumbers into quarters, sprinkle them with salt, and pour some vinegar over them; fry the chops brown, and lay them in a stewpan; drain the cucumbers, and put them over the chops, with sliced onion, pepper, and salt; pour hot water or broth on them, and stew them well, taking care to skim the surface all the time. MUTTON CHOPS IN DISGUISE. Take as many chops as you choose, and rub them with pepper, salt, and a little parsley; roll each chop in half a sheet of white paper w ell buttered on the inside, and rolled on each end closely. Have some hog's lard or beef dripping boiling in a frying-pan, put in the chops, fry them of a nice brown, lay them in your dish, and garnish ■with fried parsley; throw some aU over them, and have a little good gravy in a sauce-boat; but take great care that you do not break the papers, nor have any fat in the dish, but let them be well drained. MUTTON CHOPS, FRIED. Take them"MUT MUT r 232 ] from the neck or loin, cut off nearly all the fat, beat them well, rub them -with yolk of egg, and then strew over them crumbs of bread, grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and lemon-peel, all powdered. Fry them brown, and serve them with crisped parsley. Veal chops may be done in the same way. MUTTON CHOPS, MAINTENON. Cut a neck of mutton into chops, and beat them flat with a rolling-pin; bruise the yolk of a hard- boiled egg, and mix with chopped sweet herbs, grated bread, nutmeg, salt, and pepper; cover the chops with it, and put each into a piece of well-buttered paper; broil them over a clear fire, turning them often. Serve them in the paper, or with a browned gravy. MUTTON CHOPS (Portuguese Way). Half fry them with sliced onions or shallots, a bay leaf or two, chopped parsley, salt, and pepper; then place forcemeat on a piece of paper for each, and cover the chops with more of the sauce ; twist up the paper, leaving a hole for the bone ; then broil on a gentle fire, and serve with sauce Robert or gravy. MUTTON COLLOPS (1). Take all the lean from a leg of mutton that has hung some time, cut it into slices about the size of half an egg, beat thenj quite fiat, and fry them lightly in lard, with some chopped parsley, shallots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; then put them into a stewpan, adding to the above seasoning a few slices of veal and ham; cover them with bacon, let them simmer for half an hour, and put in half^ glass of white wine and some stock. When quite done take out the mutton, drain, and dish it ; add a little cuUis to the sauce, re- duce it, skim, and strain it over the coUops. MUTTON COLLOPS (2). Take a leg of mutton that has hung some time, and cut it into three coUops ; take out all the sinews, season the collops with salt, pepper, beaten mace, some shred parsley, thyme, and two shallots; put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, and when it is quite hot put in all the collops, and keep stirring them with a wooden spoon tjU they are three parts done ; put in half a pint of good mutton gravy, and some lemon juice thickened with butter and flour; let them simmer four or five minutes, not longer, or they will be hard ; lay them in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. MUTTON COLLOPS A LA PERIGORD, Cut your mutton in thinner slices than usual, put them into a marinade of oil and sweet herbs, and, having lajn in this for some time, braise them with the same materials as mutton collops, adding marinade and chopped truffles. Serve them with a ragout of the latter. MUTTON, CURRIED. From a fine loin of ^nutto^ take off all the fat, and cut the moat into dice ; cut some onions also into dice, and fry them. When nearly done add the meat and curry powder, in the proportion of a table-spoon- ful to each pound of meat, and fry them all lightly. When almost brown pour in two cups- ful of water, put the whole into a stewpan, cover, and let it simmer for an hour or more, accord- ing to the quantity. Have some rice boiled veiy dry in a separate dish. Some persons add a little pickle. MUTTON CUTLETS. See Cutlets. MUTTON CUTLETS, BREADED. Trim and season your cutlets with pepper and salt, put them into some melted butter, and when they have imbibed a sufiicient quantity of it take them out, and cover them entirely with bread crumbs; give the cutlets a good shape, and broil them over a clear fire. Take care not to do the cutlets too much to burn the bread. MUTTON CUTLETS, BROILED. These may be taken from the loin or the best part of the neck, but the former are generally preferred. Trim off a portion of the fat, or the whole of it unless it be liked, pepper the cutlets, beat the gridiron, rub it with a bit of mutton suet, broil the cutlets over a brisk fire, and turn them often until they are done. This, for the generality of eaters, will be in about eight minutes if they are not more than half an inch thick, which they should not be. French cooks season them with pepper and salt, and give them a light coating of dis- solved butter or of oil before they are laid to the fire; and we have found the cutlets so managed e.^tremely good. MUTTON CUTLETS IN CAUL. Lard and braise a dozen mutton cutlets as for La SouBiSE, and place the weight on them while they are cooling. When cold wrap them in onions prepared as follows :—Cut twelve onions into dice; blanch and cool them; then do them up in a little butter, with pepper, salt, garlic, bay leaf, and nutmeg; add to these two ladlesful of veloute, stir in the yolks of four eggs, and reduce the onions to a paste. As soon as it is cold use it as above mentioned. Besides this put on each cutlet a pig's caul, lay them in a deep dish, and bake them to a nice colour. Serve them very hot with a demi- glaze. MUTTON CUTLETS WITH CUCUM- BERS. Choose your cutlets rather thicker than usual; beat and lard them with bacon rolled in salt, pepper, and spices; put them into a pan with a little melted butter; brown, and then trini them. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, two carrots cut in pieces, three onions, two cloves, a bay leaf, and a little thyme; lay your cutlets on this, cover them with bacon, pour in a ladleful of stQck, and simmer theL 233 ] MUT MUT cutlets in this. In about two hours take them out, drain and glaze them, and dish them en couronne, with cucumbers and cream in the MUTTON CUTLETS, FRIED. Cut them very thin; beat, pare, or cut them with a cutter; fry them a nice brown, dusting in a little flour, mushrooms, onions, shallots, and minced parsley. Any or all of these may be added in due propor- tion. Put them into a stewpan, and allow them to simmer for half an hour. Any coUops may be cooked in this way. Add lemon or a little vinegar. If the sauce is too thin, egg, flour, or glaze may be added. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA POLONAISE. Remove all the fat, put the meat into a covered stewpan, with a carrot and a turnip sliced, two onions, a bundle of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and enough bi'oth to moisten the whole. Stew very gently till the meat is perfectly done; then take it out, strain the gravy, put it over a brisk fire, and reduce it to a glaze ; then -.over the cutlets with a glaze, and serve them dp with tomato sauce, or a vegetable puree of any kind. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA SOUBISE. Cut out the cutlets from between the bones; pare, flatten, and lard them equally with bacon and ham ; prepare a stewpan with a braise, lay in the cutlets, put in a ladleful of stock, and cover with slices of bacon and a round of strong buttered paper ; let them boil, and put them on a paillasse with fire over them. When cooked pare anew, and turn the larding; reduce tbo stock, glaze the cutlets, and dish en cordon. Put in the middle a nice puree of onions, and garnish the dish with small glazed onions. This is a very elegant dish, and may be served with mushrooms, oysters, or any other ragout. MUTTON CUTLETS STEWED IN THEIR OWN GRAVY. Trim the fat entirely off some cutlets taken from the loin, just dip them into cold water, dredge them moderately w'ith pepper, and plentifully on both sides with flour; rinse a thick iron saucepan with spring water, and leave a couple of table-spoonsful in it; arrange the cutlets in one flat layer if it can be done conveniently, and place them over a very gentle fire. Throw in a little salt when they begin to stew, and let them simmer as softly as possible, but without ceasing, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. If dressed with great care, which they require, they will be equally tender, easy of digestion, and nutritious; and being at the same time free from everything that can disagree with the most delicate stomach, the receipt will be found a valuable one for invalids. The mutton should be of good quality; but the excellency of the dish mainly depends on its being more gently stewed; for if allowed to boil quickly all tha gravy will be dried up, and the meat will be unfit for table. The cutlets must be turned when they are-half done. A couple of spoonsful of water or gravy may be added to them, should they not yield sufiicient moisture ; but this is rarely needful. Cook from one hour and a quarter to one hour and three quarters. MUTTON, FILLET OF (Braised). Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper and put over it, and paste the same as for venison; let it roast for a couple of hours, and be careful that it is not in the least browned. Have ready some French beans, boiled and drained on a sieve, and during the time the mutton is being braised give them one heat up in gravy, and lay them in the dish, serving the meat upon them. MUTTON, FILLET OF (Jellied). Take the fillets from two loins of mutton, and lard them with bacon rolled in sweet herbs; put them into a stewpan lined with slices of bacon, add the trimmings of the meat, two car- rots cut in pieces, two onions, each with a clove in it, a good bunch of pai'sley seasoned, a little salt and whole pepper, a glass of Madeira, and two table-spoonsful of consomme; cover the whole with bacon, and a piece of buttered paper the size of the pan, and set it on the fire. As soon as it boils put it aside, with fire under and over, to simmer slowly for two hours; then take it from the fire, and let the fillets cool in their sauce. When nearly cold drain and press them lightly between two dishes, and when quite cold cut each fillet in half; glaze them all over, dish them, and garnish over and round with jelly disposed according to your fancy. MUTTON, FILLET OF (Roasted). Cut some inches from either end of a large leg of mutton, and leave the fillet shaped like one of veal; remove the bone, and fill the cavity with forcemeat made with two cupsful of bread crumbs, and one of butter or minced suet, a little parsley finely shred, the quarter of a nut- meg grated, a tea-spoonful of powdered lemon- peel, allspice, and salt. Work the whole together with two or three yolks of eggs well beaten. It may be flavoured with a little minced onion if it is liked. More forcemeat may be added by detaching the skin on the flap side to admit it. Then the fillet may be floured and roasted, served with currant jelly and brown gravy, or with only melted butter poured over it; or it may be stewed gently for nearly or quite four hours in a pint of gravy or water, after having been floured or browned all over in 2 ozs. of butter. It must then be turned every hour, that it may be equally done. Two or three small onions, a fagot of herbs, a couple of carrotsC 234 ] MUT Bliccd, fom- or five cloves, and twenty -whole ppppercorns can be added at will. MUTTON GllAVY FOR GAME. The hest gravy for venison or game of any kind is that made with the trimmings of the joint. If it is all used, and you have no undressed venison, cut a scrag of mutton in pieces, and broil a light brown ; then put them into a clean stewpan with a quart of boiling water, cover it closely, and simmer gently for an hour. Now uncover the stewpan, and let the gravy reduce to three quarters of a pint; pour it through a hair sieve, take the fat off, and send it up in a boat. It is only to be seasoned with a little salt, that it may not overpower the natural flavour of the meat. MUTTON HAMS. Cut a hind-quarter of good mutton into the shape of a ham ; pound 1 oz. of saltpetre with 1 lb. of coarse salt and J lb. of coarse sugar; rub the ham well with this mixture, taking care to stuff the hole of the shank well with salt and sugar, and let it lie for a fortnight, rubbing it well with the mixture every two or three days ; then take it out, and press it with a weight for one day; smoke it with elm, ash, or oak sawdust for ten or fifteen days, or hang it to dry in the kitchen. If the ham is to be boiled soon after it has been smoked, soak it one hour; and if it has been smoked any length of time it will require to be soaked several hours. Put it on in cold water, and boil it gently two hours. It is eaten cold at breakfast, luncheon, or supper. A mutton ham is sometimes cured with the above quantity of salt and sugar, with the addition of ^ oz. of pepper, ^ oz. of cloves, and one nutmeg. MUTTON HARICOT (1). Cut some mutton chops rather thicker than for broiling, and trim them nicely; fry them in a little butter of a nice brown colour, and drain off the butter; then make a roux by putting together in a stew- pan a small piece of fresh butter and a spoon- ful of fine flour, placing it over a moderate fire, and stirring with a wooden spoon till the flour becomes of a good brown colour. Moisten with veal gravy of a good colour, and well seasoned. When your sauce boils put in the chops and the trimmings of your turnips, and let them stew gently on the corner of your stove ; skim frequently, and when the chops are nearly done drain them into a clean stewpan. Have ready some turnips and carrots cut into neat shapes, but rather large pieces ; add them to the chops, and drain the sauce through a sieve over the turnips and chops; then stew them in this sauce with a little sugar, and continue to skim frequently. When the turnips are done keep them hot in the bain-marie till you serve. MUTTON HARICOT (2). Take a scrag of mutton, make some good gravy with parsley, thyme, winter savory, sliced can'ots, onions, shallots, celery, some turnips well boiled and mashed, and a crust of white bread; stew all these together, then put in some steaks off a neck or loin (broiled first), and stew them in it some time ; season to your taste, strain it off, and slice in some carrots boiled separately for that purpose. MUTTON, HASHED. Cut the meat into thin slices, trim off all the sinews, skin, gristle, &c., and put in nothing but what is to be eaten; lay it on a plate ready, prepare your sauce- pan to warm it in, put in the meat, and let it simmer gently till it is thoroughly warm. Do not let it boil, as that will make the meat tough and hard. Select for the hash those parts of your joint that are least done. MUTTON, HASHED (a la Bouegeoise). Take what meat remains from a roasted leg of mutton which has been served the day before, cut off the skin, take away the coarse fibres, cut the meat into small and thin pieces, and put them into a saucepan ; then reduce a few spoons- ful of cull is, and put it to the hash, with 2 ozs. of butter. Warm up the M-hole, taking care that it does not boil, and serve with cold poached eggs round. MUTTON, HASHED (with Cucumbers). Pare some cucumbers, and take out the seeds ; then cut them into very thin slices, and let them steep for two hours in vinegar and salt; drain them well, put them into a stewpan, and keep turning them over the fire, with a small piece of butter and a slice of ham, till they begin to take colour, adding a little flour, and moistening with equal quantities of stock and gravy. If you do not happen to have any gravy let the cucumbers be well coloured before they are taken from the fire. They should then be stewed gently, occasionally skimming off the fat. When they are done add a little cullis to thicken them. Having thus prepared your ragout of cucumber, take any joint of cold roasted mutton (the leg is the best), cut it into thin slices, and put them into the ragout to heat, but take care not to let it boil. MUTTON, HASHED (with Fine Herbs). Cut your meat as directed for Mutton, Hashed (with Poached ' Eggs) ; dress it also in the same manner, and leave it in the saucepan; put 2 ozs. of butter into another saucepan, with a dessert-spoonful of shallots shred small, and set them on the fire, but do not colour them; then take four spoonsful of mushrooms, all shred small, and give them a few turns with the shallots, after which add a dessert-spoonful of shred parsley; stir the whole together, reduce, and pour it on the hash; give the whole a simmer, and then serve with sippets round.MUT [ 235 ] MUT MUTTON, HASHED (with Poached Eggs). Cut the meat from a cold roasted leg of mutton, take out all the sinews and skin, mince it veiy small, and put it in a saucepan. Reduce four spoonsful of Espagnole to one, pour it over the meat, mix it in well, and set it on the fire, hut do not let it boil. When done pour it into a dish, with fried bread cut like corks round it, and poached eggs on it. MUTTON, HAUNCH OF. The haunch should be kept as long as it possibly can be kept sweet, and, if necessary, washed with warm milk and water or vinegar. When going to be dressed it must be carefully washed, to prevent the outside having a bad flavour from keeping. Before you put the haunch to the fire fold it in a paste of coarse flour or strong paper ; then set it a good distance from the fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste, which must not be taken off till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving the mutton, which must then be basted continually. Bring the haunch nearer before taking off the paste, and froth it up in the same manner as venison. For gravy take 1^ lb. of loin of mutton, simmer it in a pint of water till reduced to half, and use no seasoning but salt; brown it with a little burnt sugar, and serve it up in a dish; but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat, for, though long at the fire, the covering and distance will prevent it roasting out. Serve with currant- jelly sauce. MUTTON, HAUNCH OF (Like Venison). (1.) Take a fat haunch of large fine mutton, and let it hang a week; then pound 1 oz. of black and 1 oz. of Jamaica pepper, and rub them over the mutton. Pour a bottle of port over it, and let it remain in this five days, basting it frequently eveiy day with the liquor; take it out, and hang it four or five days more, or as long as the weather favours its keeping, wiping it three or four times a day with a clean cloth. While it is roasting baste it with the liquor it was steeped in, adding a little more port wine. A quarter of an hour before taking it from the fire baste it well with butter, and dredge flour over it to froth it up. Serve it with sauces as for venison. MUTTON, HAUNCH OF (Like Venison). (2.) Let the haunch hang nearly the usual time ; then take the skin carefully off, and rub the meat with olive oil; put it into a pan, with a quantity of whole pepper, four cloves of garlic, and a bundle of sweet kerbs, consisting of parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, and two bay leaves. Pour upon the meat a pint of good vinegar, and three or four table-spoonsful of olive oil; cover the upper surfaces of the meat with slices of raw onion, and turn the mutton every day, always taking care to put the slices of onion on the top surface. At the expiration of four days take the meat out, wipe it with a napkin, and hang it up in a cool place till next day, when it is fit for roasting. A more simple method is to rub it every day, and let it hang until it is tender. A clove or two of garlic will, however, give it a much higher flavour if put into the knuckle when the haunch is hung up. MUTTON, LEG OF. Cut off the shank- bone, and trim the knuckle; put it into luke- warm water for ten minutes, wash it clean, cover it with cold water, let it simmer very gently, and skim it carefully. A leg of 9 lbs. will take two and a half or three hours if you like it thoroughly done, especially in cold weather. The choice pieces with an epicure are the knuckle, the kernel (called " the pope's eye"), and the cramp, or " gentleman's bone." When a leg of mutton is very large you may divide it, roast the fillet, and boil the knuckle end. You may also cut some fine cutlets off the thick end of the leg, and so have two or three good hot dinners. The liquor the mutton is boiled in may be converted into good soup in five minutes, and Scotch barley broth. Thus managed a leg of mutton is a most economical joint. If your leg of mutton is roasted, serve with onion or currant-jelly sauce ; if boiled, serve with caper sauce and vegetables. In roasting or boiling a quarter of an hour is usually allowed for each pound of meat. MUTTON, LEG OF : To Boil. Let the joint be kept until it is tender, but not so long as for roasting, as mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung long. To prepare a leg of mutton for boiling, trim it as for roasting, and soak it for a couple of hours in cold water; then put only water enough to cover it, and let it boil gently for three hours if of the largest size, and, if smaller, according to its weight. Some cooks boil it in a cloth ; but if the water be afterwards wanted for soup, that should not be done, as it would be no longer fit for that purpose : some salt and an onion put into it are far better. When nearly ready take it from the fire, and, keeping the pot well covered, let it remain in the steam for ten or fifteen minutes. It is sent to table with caper sauce and mashed turnips. MUTTON, LEG OF : To Eat like Venison. The leg should be large, fat, and cut out like a haunch as soon as killed. Take out the bloody vein, pierce the under side with a knife, pour over it a bottle of red wine, and turn it in the same four or five times every day for nearly a week; then dry it well with a cloth, and hang it up in the air, with the knuckle end downwards, for four days more; dry it perfectly.[ 236 ] MUT M U T and when about to dress it lay over it paper a;id paste- It will take four hours to roast. Serve it with venison sauce. MUTTON, LEG OF: To Force. Raise the skin, take out the lean part, and chop it fine witli an anchovy; then make a forcemeat with sweet herbs shred, a grated penny loaf, half a lemon, a nutmeg, pepper and salt, three eggs, and a glass of red wine. Fill up the skin with the forcemeat, but leave the bone and shank, and it will appear like an entire leg. Lay it on an earthen dish, with a pint of red wine under it, and bake it. When done, which will be in two hours and a half, take off the fat, strain the gravy over the mutton, and lay round it hard eggs and pickled mush- rooms. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, LEG OF: To Roast. A leg of 8 lbs. weight will take from one hour and three quarters to two hours, according to the time it has hung. Let it be well basted and frothed. Serve with onion or cur-raut-jelly sauce, or plain melted butter, and such vegetables as are in season. MUTTON, LEG OF : To Roast with Oysters. Stuff a leg of mutton that has hung two or three days with oysters; then roast it. Serve it with good gravy. Cockles may be used instead of oysters. MUTTON, LEG OF (a l'Anglaise). Lard the fleshy part of a leg of mutton with fat bacon, tie it with packthread, and put it into a pot just large enough to hold it, with some stock, a bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, three cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, some salt and pepper. When it is done let it drain, wipe off the fat with a cloth, and serve with a sauce made in the following manner : — Put a tumblerful of stock, and nearly the same quantity of cuUis, into a stew- pan, with some capers and anchovies, a little parsley, a shallot, and the yolk of an egg boiled hard. Let the sauce boil a few minutes, and serve it with the mutton. MUTTON, LEG OF (1 la Bourgeoise). Take a nice round leg of mutton, bone it, and lard the inside of it with lardons rolled in salt, pepper, and spices ; tie it up into its original form, and put it into a braising-pan, with a dozen carrots, a dozen onions, as many potatoes, two bay leaves, two cloves, parsley, scallions, and a ladleful of stock or water; add to these 1 lb. of bacon cut into six pieces, and a little salt. Simmer the whole or three hours and a half, stirring it occasionally. At the end of that time take out the mutton, untie, and dish it with the vegetables round it. MUTTON, LEG OF (Braised). Take a very small leg of mutton, cut off the knuckle, and trim it nicely; half roast it, then put it into a stewpan, with the knuckle bone broken, the trimmings, a few slices of fat bacon or 2 ozs. of butter, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Shake the stewpan over the fire till there is gravy enough from the meat and the trimmings to stew the mutton, and take care to turn it in the braise. When very tender take it up, remove the fat from the gravy, strain it, and boil it quickly until it is reduced to a glaze ; pour it over the mutton, and serve it up with a puree of vegetables beneath. MUTTON, LEG OF (a i^Espagxcle). Bone a leg of mutton to the knuckle, lard it quite through with large pieces of bacon, and season ■with salt and spices ; then put it into a braising- pan, with about a dozen onions and a pint of white wine; cover it with paper, and put it in the oven. When half doue turn it, add half a dozen short sausages, cover it again, and finish the baking. Garnish the meat, when served, with onion; skim and strain the liquor, squeeze over it the juice of two oranges, and pour it on the mutton. MUTTON, LEG OF (Marinated). Lard the upper part of a leg of mutton, and let it soak for about twelve hours in a warm pickle of water, vinegar, gai'lic, cloves, onions, thyme, bay leaves, parsley, salt, and pepper. After it has been this time in soak roast it, basting it with the pickle. Serve with a high-flavoured sauce ; or, if you like it better, pass the marinade through a sieve, reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, add a little butter to thicken it, and serve. If you intend to use your marinade for a sauce you must pat in a very small quantity of salt. MUTTON, LEG OF (Stuffed). Take a leg of mutton, cut off all the fat, take the bone carefully out, and preserve the skin whole; take out the meat, mince it finely, and mix and mince with it about 1 lb. of fat bacon and some parsley; season the whole well with pepper and salt, and a small quantity of shallots or chives chopped fine; then put the meat into the skin, and sew it up neatly on the under side ; tie it up in a cloth, and put it into a stewpan, with two or three slices of veal, some sliced carrots and onions, a bunch of parsley, and a few slices of fat bacon. Let it stew for three or four hours, and drain the liquor through a fine sieve. When reduced to a glaze, glaze the mutton with it, and serve in stewed French beans. MUTTON, LEG OF (Stuffed with Oysters). Make a forcemeat of beef suet chopped small, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, savory, and a dozen or fourteen oysters (all cut fine), some salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and prumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs. PutMUT MUT [ 237 ] this forcemeat under the skin in the thickest part of a leg of mutton, under the flap, and at the knuckle. For sauce, some oyster liquor, a little red wine, an anchovy, and some more oysters stewed, and served under the mutton. MUTTON, LOIN OF. Koast it. It is by many considered much better if cut like a saddle. It may also be used for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care to cut off as much fat as possible. MUTTON, LOIN OF (Collaked akd Roasted). Clear the fat from the upper, and the meat from the under, side of a loin of mutton. Bone, and season it with pepper and salt, shallots, and sweet herbs chopped small. Roll it up tightly, and roast it gently. While dressing this part parboil that taken from the under side; then mince it, put it into half a pint of gravy, and when the mutton is ready pour it into the dish. One hour and three quarters will roast a loin in this way. MUTTON, LOIN OF (Rolled). Let it hang till tender; bone it, and season with pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and cloves, all finely powdered. Next beat the meat, and cover it with stuffing similar to that for a hare. Roll it up tightly, and bake it in a slow oven. When cold take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan, with the meat floured. Stew it' till nearly done, and then add a glass of port wine, some catsup, an anchovy, and a little lemon pickle half an hour before serving, which must be in the gravy, with currant-jelly sauce. Some fresh mushrooms may be added, unless the meat is to be eaten like a hare, when these and the lemon should be omitted. MUTTON, LOIN OF (Stewed). Bone and skin the loin, and stew it in a pint of water, turning it frequently. When the liquor is half wasted take out the loin, strain it, and when cold take off the fat. Make a rich, highly seasoned gravy of the bones ; strain, and mix it with the liquor the loin was stewed in ; add a tea-cupful of port wine and some small mushrooms. Thicken the sauce with butter rolled in flour, put in the mutton, and heat it thoroughly. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON MEDLEY PIE, RAISED. Take the best part of a leg of mutton, and mince it with any sort of poultry, meat, or game you may find convenient; also mince i lb. of beef suet, some ham, fat bacon, truffles, pistachio nuts, and four or five yolks of hard-boiled eggs ; mix with these all sorts of spices, sweet herbs, and two glasses of brandy. Make a good raised crust, into which put the above; cover, and bake the pie in a moderate oven five or six hours. Serve it cold. MUTTON, NECK OF. This is particularly useful, as many dishes may be made of it. The Lest end of the neck may be boiled for an hour and a half, and served with turnips, or roasted, dressed in steaks, in pies, d la Turque, or in haricot. The scrar/ may be stewed into broth, or with a small quantity of water, some small onions, some peppercorns, and a little rice, and served together. When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, saw down the chine- bone, sti'ip the ribs half way down, chop off the ends of the bones about four inches, and turn the flap under. The skin should not be taken off till boiled, and then the fat will remain white. The neck is very commonly divided, the scrag being boiled for broth, and the remain- ing part either roasted or cut into chops ; but, if boiled together, the scrag will require rather more stewing than the other part to make it tender. If only slightly salted for two or three days the fat will be so much improved as to become firm, and appear clarified; and the mode wliich we recommend for dressing the joint is thus :— Boil the neck very gently till it is nearly done enough; then, half an hour or twenty minutes before serving, cover it thickly with bread crumbs and sweet herbs chopped, with a little drawn butter or the yolk of an egg, and put it into a Dutch oven before the fire. By this process the meat will taste much better than if merely roasted or boiled ; the dryness attendant upon roasting will be removed; and the disagreeable greasiness which boiled meat, especially mutton, exhibits, will utterly disappear. Too much cannot be said in favour of this method of dressing the neck and breast of mutton, for the liquor they have been boiled in, if stewed with peas, will make a very good soup. MUTTON, NECK OF (Larded with Ham AND Anchovies). Take the fillet of a neck of mutton, and lard it quite through with ham and anchovies, first rolled in chopped parsle; , shallots, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; then let it braise or stew in a little stock, with a glas^ of white wine. When done skim and strain the sauce, adding a little cullis to give it the proper consistence. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, pour this sauce over the meat, and serve. MUTTON, NECK OF (wjth Parsley). Take either a neck, loin, or saddle of mutton; trim it, and lift up the skin underneath, larding the whole with sprigs of fresh parsley; put it on the spit to roast, and, when the parsley is thoroughly dried, baste it very frequently with hog's lard until the meat is done; then toss up a little gravy with some shallots cut small, salt, and pepper, and serve with the meat. MUTTON, NECK OF (with Roots). Having prepared your mutton by cutting oft the scrag end and tying it up, put some slices of bacon, any meat trimmings, four carrots, fiveMUT MUl [ 238 ] onions (one of them stuck with three cloves), two bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley, and scallions into a stewpan; put in the mutton, cover it with bacon, moisten with stock or water, add salt to your taste, and set the stewpan on a brisk fire. As soon as it boils lessen the fire, and let it stew for four hours. When quite done drain the mutton, dish, aud put the carrots, dressed en petites racines, over it. MUTTON PASTY. This eats like venison. Take a fat loin of mutton, and let it hang several days; then bone it, and beat it well with a roll- ing-pin. Rub 10 lbs. of meat with-J lb. of sugar, and pour over it one glass of port and one glass of vinegar; let it lie for five days and five nights, after which wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it highly with Ja- maica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to 10 lbs. put 1 lb. of butter, spreading it over the meat; put a crust round the edge of the dish, and cover with a thick crust, otherwise it will be overdone before the meat is soaked. It must be baked in a slow oven. Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with just sufficient water to cover them, one glass of port, and a small quantity of pepper and salt. By this means you will have a rich gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. Sugar gives a greater shortness to meat, and a better flavour than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens it; and sugar is quite as much of a presei'vative. MUTTON PIE. Take off the meat from part of a loin of mutton, cut it into chops, and season with pepper and salt. Put a layer of chops into a deep dish, and upon them some slices of peeled potatoes, and some thin slices of onion; put the remaining chops over, cover with puff paste, bake it, and add some cullis. The chops may be passed with sweet herbs, &c., aud when cold put into small or large raised crusts, with potatoes and cullis added wlien baked. MUTTON, POLPETTES OF. Take the lean of any joint of cold roasted mutton, pare oft' the skin, and mince the meat with a little grated bacon and calf's udder; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms, and parsley shred small; unite them together with the yolks of three eggs, and make twelve or fifteen balls of it; dip them in beaten egg, and bread them twice; flatten these balls a little, and fry them in clarified butter. "When done drain and place them on the dish. Serve them with tomato sauce of demi-glaze. MUTTON PUDDING (1). Cut some slices from a leg of mutton that has been underdone, and put them into a basin that has been lined a nice suet crust; season them well with pepper, salt, and finely shi-ed onion and shallot. MUTTON PUDDING (2) Put a layer of mutton steaks at the bottom of a dish, and season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion ; then pour a batter of potatoes, boiled aud pressed through a cullender, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them ; then put another layer of steaks aud more batter, and bake it. MUTTON, ROLLED. Bone a shoulder of mutton carefully, so as not to injui-e the skin ; cut all the meat from the skin, mince it small, aud season it highly with pepper, nutmeg, a clove, some parsley, lemon thyme, sweet mar- joi'am chopped, and a pounded onion, all well mixed, together with the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Roll it up very tightly in the skin, tie it round, and bake it in an oven two or three hours, according to the size of the mutton. Make a gravy of the bones and parings ; season with an onion, pepper, and salt; strain and thicken it with flour and butter; add vinegar, mushroom catsup, soy, and lemon pickle, a table-spoonful of each, aud a tea-cupful of port wine. Garnish with forcemeat balls made of gi'ated bread and part of the mince. MUTTON ROLLS EN GRATIN. Cut a neck or leg of mutton into slices about the size of a crown piece; lay them separately on a dish, covered with chopped parsley, shallots, scallions, and mushrooms ; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pour a sufficient quantity of oil over to cover them. When they have lain in this an hour have some good fowl or veal fai'ce, put a piece about the size of a walnut between each two slices of mutton, tie them together, and braise the whole. When about half done add a glass of white wine. Take the crumb from as many small rolls as you have parcels of mutton, which untie and put into the crusts; take some farce made of poultry, livers, grated bacon, pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs; put a layer of it on a dish for table (one that will bear the fire), place the rolls on it, and set it on the fire to make the gratin. When ready for table pour some cullis over the rolls, and serve them with a clear sauce and lemon juice. MUTTON RUMPS A LA BRAISE. Take six mutton rumps, and boil them for a quarter of an hour; then take them out, cut them in two, and put them in a stewpan, with half a pint of good gravy, a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a little Cayenne pepper, and salt. Cover them closely, and stew till they are tender; then take out the rumps and onion thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, and put in a little roux and the juice of half a lemon ; boil it up till it is smooth, taking care that it is not too thick; put in the rumps, give them a toss or two, and dish them up hot. Garnish with horseradish and beet root.[ 239 ] MUT MUT MUTTON EUMPS, ENTREE OF. Clean the rumps, and braise them till nearly done; then fry slips of bread the same breadth and length ; put a rump on each piece of bread, and over it grated Parmesan cheese, and upon the whole a little mustard, butter, and cullis mixed together; strew at the top some fine bread crumbs. Bake the rumps till tender, and serve them in a little consomme, thickened with iiiie yolks of two eggs and a gill of cream. MUTTON RUMPS AND KIDNEYS. Boil half a dozen rumps, then stew them in some mutton gravy, more than will cover them; let them stew gently for half an hour, then take them up, and let them stand to cool. Put into the gravy | lb. of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace. Let it boil till the rice is very thick. Take the rumps, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg well beaten up, and then roll them in bread crumbs, a little pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, lemon- peel grated, and a very little thyme. Fry them in butter till they are of a nice brown. Whilst the rumps are stewing lard some kidneys, and put them in a Dutch oven to roast. When the rumps are fried drain them ; pour the fat out of the frying-pan, and put in the rice ; stir the wliole together round the pan, and then lay tiie rice in a dish; lay the rumps round upon the rice, the narrow ends to meet in the middle. Boil four eggs hard, cut them in quarters, and lay the kidneys and hard eggs upon the rice between the rumps. MUTTON RUMPS, MARINATED. Clean and cut the rumps into equal lengths, and lay them in the pan in the marinade liquor for one night; then pass them in butter till nearly done. Lay them on a dish to cool, wash them over with yolk of egg, and strew them with bread crumbs. Fry them gently in boiling lard till done, and of a nice colour. Drain them dry, and serve them up with a very good-seasoned cullis sauce with catsup in it. MUTTON, SADDLE OF : To Roast. Skin it, and split the tail ; then skewer it down at each end, paper it all over, and put it down to the fire, which must be very clear and brisk. A saddle of middle size will take an hour and a half in roasting. A little before it is done baste it with butter, and dredge it to raise a froth. Serve it up with the gravy in the dish. MUTTON, SADDLE OF (Baked). Prepare and dress a saddle of mutton in every respect as for a remove. When cold take off the skin, trim and season it with pepper and salt, brush it all over with melted butter, bread it, and then let it cool. Put I lb. of butter into a basin, break ten eggs on it, and add pepper and salt; beat them together well, wash the saddle over with it completely, and cover it well with the bread. Put the saddle on a baking tin, and set it in the oven, which must not be too hot, or it will spoil the colour of the mutton. MUTTON. SADDLE OF (Braised). Bone half a saddle of mutton; season the inner part with salt and pepper, roll it up in the form of a long square, tie it up, and braise it for two hours and a half. When ready for table raise the skin and glaze it. Put in the dish any puree or sauce you please. MUTTON, SADDLE OF (as a Remove). Choose a fat saddle of mutton well covered with skin; bone the ribs to the spine; season the under part with pepper, salt, and pounded spice; fill each side with the meat from a leg of mutton ; roll it in, taking care to make both the same size. Tie it up, adding the ribs and leg bone, and braise it for five hours; then drain and untie it, strip all the skin from the top, and either glaze or cover it with shred parsley. Serve it with a clear gravy, and garnish your dish with glazed turnips, onions, or carrots. MUTTON SAUSAGES. Take 1 lb. of the most underdone part of a leg of mutton which has been either roasted or boiled ; chop it very finely, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it 6 ozs. of beef suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters (all chopped very small), ^ lb. of grated bread, some of the anchovy liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. When thoroughly mixed put all into a little pot, and use it by rolling it into little balls, or of a sausage shape, and fry them. A little shallot or garlic is a great improvement. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Baked). Lard a shoulder of mutton with streaked bacon, put it into an earthen stewpan proportioned to the size of the joint of meat, with two or three sliced onions, a parsnip and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two cloves, half a bay leaf, and some basil; add about a quarter of a pint of water or stock, and some salt and pepper; put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an oven. When the meat is done strain the sauce through a sieve, and skim it, squeezing the vegetables, so as to make a puree to thicken your sauce. Serve the sauce with the meat. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Boiled with Oysters). Hang up the joint for some days, then salt it well for two more ; bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and mace powdered ; lay over it some oysters, roll up the meat tightly, and then fasten it. Stew it in a close pan with a little water, an onion, and some peppercorns, till it is tender. Make a little good gravy, and stew some oysters in it; thicken it with flour and butter, and pour the whole over the mutton. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Broiled). Braise a shoulder of mutton that has hungMUX [ 240 ] MUX Bome days with the usual seasoning. When nearly done take it out, and mix some sweet herbs shred small with grated bread; cover the mut- ton with this, lay it on the gridiron, and broil it slowly, moistening it occasionally with a little of the braise liquor. When quite done dish it. Serve with a cullis and vinegar or verjuice. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (en Epi- gramme). Roast the shoulder till it is nearly done; then take off the skin about the thick ness of a crown piece, and also the shank-bone. Season both these with pej)per, salt, a little lemon-peel cut small, sweet herbs, and bread crumbs. Lay the meat on the gridiron till it is brown; then cut the other part, as for a hash, in very small pieces. Put the gravy on it, with a few spoonsful of stock, some nutmeg, half an onion cut small, a bundle of herbs, pepper, salt, some gherkins cut small, a few mushrooms, two or three truffles, two spoonsful of wine, and a little flour. Stew these slowly without boiling five or six minutes, take out the herbs, and pour the hash into a dish, with the broiled meat upon it. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (with Rice). Half boil a shoulder of mutton, then put it in a stewpan, with two quarts of mutton gravy, |- lb. of rice, a tea-spoonful of mushi'oom powder, and a little broken mace, and let it stew till the rice is tender; then take up the mutton, and keep it hot; put to the rice half a pint of cream, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir it well round the pan, and let it boil a few minutes. Lay the mutton in the dish, and serve it over the rice. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Roasted). Run the spit in close to the shank, and pass it along the bladebone, which last will make a good relish for supper, scored, salted, peppered, and broiled, or done in a Dutch oven. Serve with onion sauce. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Salted and Boiled). Bone a shoulder of mutton. If large take 4 ozs. of common salt, the same quantity of coarse sugar, mixed with a dessert-spoonful of pounded cloves, half that quantity of pepper, and a little pounded mace and ginger. Rub them well into the mutton, turning it well every day for a week; then roll it up tightly, and boil it gently for three or four hours in a quart of water, with a carrot, turnip, onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Serve it with some of its own gravy, thickened and highly flavoured, or with any piquant sauce; or it may be served up smothered with onions. This is very convenient to families who kill their own sheep. Captains of ships are recommended, when they have fresh mutton, to tow it overboard for some hours, and then lay it up in the shrouds. It ■will then be coated with briny particles, which will effectually keep in all the juices. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF, STEWED (1). Bone a shoulder of mutton with a sharp knife, and fill the space with the following stuffing :— Grated bread, minced suet, parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg: bind with the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Sew or fasten it with small skewers, and brown it in a frying-pan with a little butter. Break the bone, put it in a sauce- pan, with some water, an onion, pepper, salt, and a bunch of parsley. Let it stew till the strength be extracted. Strain and thicken it with butter rolled in flour; put it, with the mutton and a glass of port wine, into a sauce- pan ; cover it closely, and let it stew gently for two hours. Before serving add two table-spoons- ful of mushroom catsup. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF, STEWED (2). Bone and flatten a shoulder of mutton, sprinkle over it pepper and salt, roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and put it into a stewpan that will just hold it; pour over it a well-seasoned gravy made with the bones, cover the pan closely, and let it stew till tender. Before serving take off the tape, thicken the gravy, and garnish with cut pickles. MUTTON, SHOULDER OF (Stewed WITH Oysters). Let the shoulder hang for several days ; then salt it well for two days, bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded ; lay some oysters over, roll the meat up tightly, and tie it. Stew it in a little water, with an onion and a few peppercorns, till it is quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken it with some flour and butter, and when the tape is taken off the mutton pour this sauce over it. Be careful to keep the stewpan closely covered. MUTTON, SLICES OF (en Chevreuil). Cut twelve thin slices of mutton neatly, and lard them with bacon ; let them soak in vinegar mixed with spices, a bunch of parsley, and an onion cut in slices, for three days. When you wish to use the meat cook it in a thick sauce till of a good colour, and serve it with a sauce d la poivrade. MUTTON, SLICES OF (with Cream). Cut a roasted loin of mutton into slices, which put into a stewpan ; chop up some small onions, stew them with J lb. of fresh butter and a little stock, and when nearly dissolved add half a pint of good cream, salt, and pepper. Let it boil five minutes ; then put in the slices of mutton, and make them quite hot, but they must not boil. Serve them quickly. MUTTON STEAKS: To Stew. Either cut them from the best end of a loin or the best part of a leg, season with pepper and salt, lay them in a stewpan with sliced onions, and cover them with water and gravy. When done on[ 241 ] MUT NAT one side turn them, and thicken the gravy with flour and butter. Add at pleasure a little shallot or catsup, or both. Twenty or twenty- five minutes will be sufficient, for a longer time will make them tough. MUTTON STEAKS, BROILED. Cut some mutton steaks from the loin about half an inch thick, taking off the skin and part of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks, and turn them fre- quently. When they are done put them into a hot dish, and rub them with a little butter. Slice a shallot very thin into a spoonful of water, and pour it on them; add a little catsup, garnish with scraped horseradish and pickles, and send them up hot to table. MUTTON STEAKS A LA MAINTENON. Half fry the steaks, and while they are hot stew them with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Take care that the paper does not catch, to prevent which rub a bit of butter on first. MUTTON, TOURTE OF. Cut the meat off a neck of mutton into thin slices ; also slice some onions. Line a dish with puff paste, at the bottom of which put a layer of godiveau; place some of the mutton on this, then a part of the onions, and season with pepper and salt. On these put another layer of godiveau, then the mutton, onions, and so on alternately till all is used ; then cover them with butter and thin slices of bacon, lay a crust over, and bake it au hour and a half or more, according to its size. When done remove the top, take out the baccn, skim it well, and pour in some cullis in which a little mustard has been mixed. Take care the sauce runs into all parts. Replace the top and serve it MYRRH (Balsamodendron myrrlid) yields the gum resin called myrrh. It is a small tree, with a stunted trunk, covered with a whitish grey bark, and furnished with rough abortive branches, terminating in spines. It grows in Arabia Felix, in the neighbourhood of Gison, in dwarfish thickets, interspersed among acacias and euphorbias. The juice exudes spontaneously, and hardens on the bark. Myrrh is in small irregular fragments, or tears, or in larger masses very irregular in shape and size, being sometimes not larger than a pea, and sometimes, though rarely, as large as the fist. When of good quality it is reddish yellow or reddish brown, and translucent; of a strong, peculiar, somewhat fragrant odour; and a bitter, aromatic taste. It is brittle and pulverisable, presenting, when broken, a shining surface, which in the lai'ger masses is very irregular, and sometimes exhibits opaque, whitish, or yellowish veins. It is partly soluble in water, VOL. 11 alcohol, and ether; and either alcohol or water will extract the whole of its odour and taste. By distillation a volatile oil rises, having the peculiar flavour of myrrh, and leaving the residue simply bitter. Myrrh is a stimulant tonic, and is employed as an expectorant and emmenagogue in debilitated states of the system, in the absence of febrile excitement or acute inflammation. It is given in doses of from 10 to 60 grains, dissolved in water as in Griffith's myrrh mixture, or dissolved in spirit of wine, or made into pills. MYRRH, PERFUMED TINCTURE OF. This astringent dentifrice is thus prejmred :— To 18 fluid ozs. of tincture of myrrh add 2 ozs. of essence ol Cologne. If the tincture should not be quite clear add a few grains of burnt alum, shake frequently, and filter in a day or two. MYRTLE, OIL OF. Put 2 ozs. of peach leaves and half a nutmeg bruised into six quarts of brandy. Distil from this, in a bain- marie alembic, your liquor, in which infuse ^ lb. of myrtle flowers for four days. Dissolve -5 lbs. of sugar in three quarts of pure I'iver water. The moment it begins to boil take it from the fire, and let it cool. Take the myrtle flowers from the liquor, and put in the sugar. Mix them well, colour with tincture of saffron, strain, and bottle it. N. i^AlLS OF FINGERS. The following, for which we are indebted to " The Magazine of Domestic Economy," contains all that need be said upon the subject. The nails sometimes are set in such a manner that their joining is quite exposed, in the same way as a picture which is not joined to its frame. For the root and sides of each nail ought to be set into the flesh round about as into a frame ; and this frame ought to be so exact as to come to a level with the nail by the means of a small pellicle, which should come a little forward upon the nail in the form of a crescent. When the nails are enchased in this manner, the best way to preserve them so is to take care never to soak the fingers in vinegar, the juice of citrons or of gooseberries, or of any other thing of that kind which may make its way under the tender pellicle upon the borders of the nails, dry it, gnaw it, contract it, or make it turn up. For this reason young ladies ought to take care of their nails in making the syrup of lemons or the jelly of gooseberries, &c., which they have frequent occasion to do. They should likewise take care not to soak their BNAI [ 24-2 ] NAI fingers long in oily liquors; for then this border will become too soft, and, being thus softened and relaxed, will not adhere to the nail, in the same manner as a piece of paper tied upon a glass quits the glass as soon as it comes to be soaked in water; for oily liquors have the same effect upon the borders of the nails as the water has here with regard to the paper. The gene- rality of cooks, who are almost always handling fat, have the nails of the fingers bare at the roots. The true method of keeping the borders of the nails right is to resign them to the opera tion of that natural balsam which nourishes them, and by the means of which these borders increase and are renewed every day. All that is required for this is only to touch the nails as little as possible, and to shun those things which we have told you are hurtful to them. There is nothing better for taking away that blackness which sometimes gathers between the flesh and the top of the nail than to bruise two or three sour grapes with the top of your fingers, and rub the juice upon the tops of the nails. But in doing this you must take care not to let the veijuice run down upon the sides or the root of the nails, for then it will chap the little pellicle which borders the nail both below and upon the sides, whence the root of the nail will be laid bare, and the pellicle we are speaking of will be divided into little threads or tatters : such we call those little laminse which rise sometimes about the nail, and which people usually pull out with small tweezers, or with the thumb and forefinger of the other hand. When people take this way of rooting them out they ought to pull very straight, for fear of tearing away part of the skin to which they are attached, because this may occasion little tumours that are no ornament to the finger. This is all that is needful to preserve the nail from becoming baire at the root. But when it is already laid bare what must we do to cure that defect ? The method is very easy. You have nothing to do but to wet the border of the nail every morning with spittle without wiping it afterwards, and do the same every night when you go to bed. By this means the nail will Boon recover its former enchasing, provided you shun everything which we told you above was hurtful to the nails, witliout which all your trouble will be useless. Those nails are called crooked whose extre- mities are hooked inwards in the manner of claws, which is a very great deformity. This deformity generally happens to those who make frequent use of a pin or ear-picker to take away the dirt which is apt to gather between the extremities of the nail and the flesh. This way of cleaning the nail, by being frequently repeated, makes its extremity separate from the flesh, and causes it to put on the form of a hook, because, when it is thus separated, it must necessarily turn over upon the ball of the finger. We call the ball of the finger that round fleshy eminence upon the top of it, some- thing in the form of a small pincushion, which is placed under that part of the nail which is detached from the flesh, and constitutes the principal organ of touch. In a word, we call the ball of the finger that part of it which we employ in touching anything when we want to know if it is rough or smooth, hard or soft, &e. What we have observed concerning the cause of the nails becoming crooked points out, at first sight, what is to be done for preventing this deformity ; but if they are already crooked you must use the following remedy :— Ointment for the growth and softening of the nails. Take the yolk of a hard egg and 2 ozs. of fine white wax; incorporate them together in a small pot over the fire, and add to them a little of the oil of sweet almonds, to reduce them to the consistence of an ointment, which you must keep in a box for the following use :— Anoint your nails with this ointment every night when you go to bed, and afterwards put on your gloves, vfhich you must not take off till the next morning. This must be continued for three weeks or a month ; and by this means the nails will become soft, and recover their natural shape. But, as they will grow faster than ordi- narily, be not too hasty in cutting them ; let them grow pretty large, and after you observe them to be too large pare them very gently, and at the end of one month, or thereabouts, you will see them well shaped. It happens sometimes, without the individual being at all in error, that the nails contract this ill shape themselves by the acrimony of a bad nourishing juice which is carried to them, and which, by contracting the fibres of the nails, renders them thus crooked. But, from which- ever of these two causes this crookedness of the nails proceeds, the remedy above prescribed is equally effectual, only with this difference—that in the last case, besides the ointment, you must have recourse to those internal remedies which blunt the acrimony of the blood, such as barley milk, water gruel, veal broth, and the like, having first let blood two or three times, and taken some gentle aperient. The nails, when they are allowed to grow too long, are very ugly; but you should take care, when you would prevent or correct this de- formity, that you do not cut them too short, as some persons do, who will not give them time to grow, but as soon as they observe them even with the flesh, gnaw them with their teeth, or clip them with scissors, and are not satisfiedL 243 ] NAI NAI till they have got as much off them as they can get; nay, sometimes they encroach upon the fiesh itself. Those people imagine that hy this means their nails will become fine and delicate; but, instead of that, they are very soon mortified by seeing the flesh at the top of the fingers rising above them in the form of a pad, which, as it has the resemblance of an excrescence, makes the deformity the more remarkable and fleshy. Besides, it is always accompanied with dirt, which sticks so very close to it that there is no washing it away. This deformity is very difficult to correct when once you have allowed it to gain ground, because the pain which the nail occasions when it is growing, by pushing the flesh which over- grows it, obliges you to cut the nail as soon as it comes that length; and thus the deformity continues, and becomes a necessary evil. But if you would have it cured you must suff'er this pain, and let the nail grow till it has reduced the flesh to its proper place. This, however, will not answer if it is too long deferred; for then the nail, when it is growing, will insinuate itself into the flesh and divide it, which may have very bad consequences. The nail some- times receives too much nourishment from the blood, which renders it large and thick, and the substance of the nail is softer than it ought to be ; for in that case the vessels which distribute the nourishment to the body of the nail very easily receive and admit, without any resistance, whatever presents itself to these orifices, whence it happens that the nail becomes more solid and thick. To correct this deformity there are two things requisite. The first is to scrape the nail gently and pretty often with a piece of glass or a very sharp knife, taking care not to go too deep, for fear of hurting the membrane which lines the inside of the nail, and which abounds with tendinous fibres extremely susceptible of pain. The second is to apply an astringent plaster over the nail, such, for example, as the follow- ing, the property of which is to contract and straighten the small vessels which carry the nourishment to the nail, and consequently to hinder it from growing too thick :—Take equal parts of mastich, lapis calaminai"is, sealed earth, the root of bistort, and that of angelica and tormentil; reduce them to a fine powder, and with a sufficient quantity of resin, wax, and turpentine, make it into a plaster, to be applied over the nail, and continued several weeks, only renewing it after it has been used for a good many days. This plaster is likewise very serviceable when the nail has been too much scraped, in which case it ought to be immediately applied. The nails drop off" from several different causes, as from their roots being eroded as in the whitlow, or cut through as in wounds, or crushed as in violent bruises. In these cases there grows a new nail by degrees under the old one, which decays in proportion as the new one increases. The old nail hangs sometimes loose for several weeks without dropping off'; nor can it be taken away without pain, till at last the new one, growing larger and larger below it, drives it quite out, so that the person suffers no incon- venience from it, which proceeds from the tendinous fibres of the old nail being so com- pressed by the new one that they become withered, and by this means lose all sense of pain. It happens frequently that the new nail takes a bad shape, because it is moulded by the flesh below, which is often rendered ill-shaped also from one or other of the causes mentioned above. For if it is the whitlow that makes the nail drop off, for example, in that case, as the flesh below is not compressed by the nail, upon account of its root being eroded and de- tached by the ulcer, that flesh, we say, must be at liberty to take a bad shape, and consequently the tender new nail, which begins to grow above the flesh, must be obliged to take the same shape, and thereby become disfigured. Our business, then, is to see by what means this bad figure of the new nail may be prevented. The most certain method is to apply over this nail, while it is yet tender, the concave side of a small bit of white iron fashioned like a nail, that is to say, the same shape the nail ought to have; do it over on the inside with a little cerate, and fasten it to the finger in such a manner that the flesh, which begins to be covered with the new nail, may be obliged to take the shape of the white iron, and to mould itself by it. The cerate must only be re- newed once in two days, and the white iron must be immediately clapped on again, that the nail may not be allowed time to take a wrong shape. This method must be continued till the nail becomes hard; but, as soon as it begins to harden, you ought to apply the white iron with- out the cerate, for fear of making the nail too tender, and by this means hindering it from acquiring its due firmness and solidity. We see a great many people who have the nail of the thumb, and sometimes of one of the fingers (though this happens more rarely), with two surfaces inclining to one another in the form of an ass's back, whence this sort of nail has got its name. In whichever finger this deformity happens, which is most incident to the thumb, it always[ 244 3 NAI NAI proceeds from one of the causes mentioned above, and from neglecting to apply the proper remedy already described. The unequal distribution which is sometimes- made of the nourishment to the nails renders them uneven and rugged. This deformity may easily be corrected by means of a little bit of bacon applied over the nail, and covered with a linen rag. The bacon must be renewed every three days. One cannot express how effec- tual this simple remedy is for occasioning an equal distribution of the nourishment to the nail, and by this means rendering its surface smooth and even. Speckles on the nails occur when some of the particles of the juice which nourishes the nail happen to be intercepted in different places under its substance ; for then these particles, which are naturally white, being disengaged from the red blood with which they were mixed in the vessels, and appearing through the transparent horn of the nail, make it seem speckled with little white spots. This little blemish sometimes goes off of its own accord by the growing of the nail, which, as it shoots out in length, carries the specks along with it; but sometimes it is as lasting as that little spot, iji the form of a crescent, at the root of the nail, which is one of its beauties. In this case we must have recourse to art to disperse those little specks; and, as they are only accidental, and have not the same origin with that little white spot at the root of the nail which is natural, and an ornament to it, we may deface the former without hurting the latter. But by what means is this to be done? By applying over the nail a compress, wetted in spirit of wine and camphor, and leaving it there several days, wetting it from time to time in spirit of wine, and taking care to remove it as soon as the marbling of the nail disappears. Chinks of the nails, whether they be across it or lengthways, are commonly occasioned by acrid and corrosive salts carried along by the mass of blood, and stopped in the substance of the nail. The method of sweetening those salts is to bathe the nail frequently with warm milk, mixed with a little water in which a small piece of the root of marsh-mallows has been gently boiled; and, as those acrid salts are sup- plied by the mass of blood, it will be proper to join with this external remedy some sweetening broths, together with the use of bleeding and aperients. The broth ought to be made with a very little piece of veal and mutton, half a small pullet, and three or four crabs, the whole to serve for two messes of clear broth, one of which must be taken in the morning when you get up, and the other two hours after. The aperient ought to be very simple: a little manna dissolved in a mess of broth is sufficient. If the quantity of manna taken at first does not purge at all, or operates too gently, take a larger dose the next morning, or the day after the next, for it is very certain that there is no sweetening aperient more effectual than manna. The nail of itself has no colour; it is nothing but a transparent piece of horn, which transmits the colour of whatever is placed im- mediately below it. But the flesh and its blood-vessels lie immediately under the nail, or else there is some extravasated liquor lodged between the nail and the flesh, and by this means the nail appears of the same colour as the flesh below it, or the extravasated liquor, if there be any there. The most beautiful colour of nails is that of the pale rose ; every other colour of the nail is faulty. There are some nails as white as paper, others as red as blood, and others of the colour of a cherry. The white ones resemble those of a dying person; the very red ones have something rustic about them; and the cherry-coloured ones, though they do not offend the eye so much as the other two, yet they are not agreeable; but it is only the true colour of the flesh, that is to say, of the pale rose, that pleases the sight. Those fingers that are every way well shaped, and have nails of this colour, have nails as perfect as they can be. Some nails are attached very firmly to the flesh ; others more loosely. When the nail compresses the flesh too strongly it appears white; when it does not press it enough it appears of the natural colour of the flesh below it; and when the compression is neither too strong nor too gentle it appears commonly a little paler than the flesh, of the colour of a beautiful pale rose, taking it for granted, in the meantime, that the flesh upon which the nail lies is of a lively red, as it ought always to be. As a proof of what we have said you need only press the upper pait of the nail a little, and you will see it immediately grow pale if it is naturally red, and if it is white it will appear still whiter. The reason of this is that, in pressing upon the nail, you press likewise the flesh, which be- comes whiter by the pressure, because the red particles of blood which filled its transparent vessels, and made it appear red, are thereby repelled. If, instead of pressing the upper part of the nail, you press its sides, in the sameNAL NAR [ 245 ] manner as we press certain snuff-boxes to open them, the nail then grow red all along its middle, from its top down to the white speck at the root of it, while the sides in the meantime be- come pale and white. The cause of this pheno- menon is that, by squeezing the sides of the nail in this fashion, they press harder upon the flesh, while the back of the nail, on the contrary, is raised more into an arch, and thus the flesh is more at liberty under the back of the nail than under its sides, whence it must necessarily happen, in the manner above explained, that the middle of the nail must grow red, and its sides appear pale. A blow on the nail sometimes occasions the roots attached to the flesh to break and come away, which obliges the nail to fall off a few days afterwards. But sometimes those roots remain entire, and there are only some blood- vessels broken by the violent compression of the blow. In this case there is only a small effusion of blood between the flesh and the nail; and this extravasated blood, appearing through the nail, makes it seem pale, which is the colour of an ecchymosis. This paleness sometimes disappears of itself, or with the help of a linen rag dipped in aqua vitffi, and applied over the nail and all round the finger. It sometimes happens, however, that this livid colour of the nail continues obstinate. The method of preventing this inconvenience is to put round the nail and the top of the finger a linen rag done over with an ointment made of manna, oil of olives, and wax, prepared in this manner :—Take 1 oz. of fine Calabrian manna, the cleanest, whitest, and most transparent you can get; melt it in a little pot over the fire, with 1 oz. of white wax and as much pure oil of olives ; keep this ointment in a box for the use above mentioned, and apply it fresh to the finger every third day. This is a sovereign remedy, not only for pi'eventing the paleness of the nail, but likewise for curing it. NALESNIKIS, or Polish Pancakes. Beat up eight eggs, and mix them with a pint and a half of milk or cream, 2 ozs. of melted fresh butter, some grated nutmeg, lemon-peel rasped upon loaf sugar, a little salt, and 10 ozs. of flour, and make the whole into a smooth batter. Put into a frying-pan a little butter or hog's lard, and when it boils put in some of the batter, and sprinkle in a few currants; fry nicely, and sprinkle the pancake with sugar; roll it with a two-pronged fork, and serve it as hot as possible. NALESNIKIS WITH PRESERVES. Make the pancakes as directed in the last receipt, and when cool spread upon them any kind of marmalade, and some small pieces of butter; place them one upon another in a mould, into which pour a sauce made of the yolks of seven eggs, two whites beaten to a froth, and a pint of milk and sugar ; set them to bake slowly in the oven or Dutch oven ; turn up the mould on the dish, and when taken out serve them one by one in the plates. Or you may roll these pancakes when spread over with jelly, then cut them into slices, which unroll into strips, and put them into the mould like macaroni, with the above sauce. NAPHTHA is obtained by distillation from coal tar. It is extensively used in the dissolving of India rubber for waterproofing, as a source of illumination, and for heating shaving water and other things in chambers. Its heating power is not quite equal to that of tallow, for 1 lb. of the latter, during burning, will melt 104 lbs. of ice, but 1 lb. of naphtha melts only 98 lbs.—(John son's Chemistry of the World.) NAPLES BISCUITS. See Biscuits, Naples. NAPLES CURD. Put into a quart of new milk a stick of cinnamon, boil it a few minutes, take out the cinnamon, and stir in eight well- beateu eggs and a table-spoonful of white wine. When it boils again strain it through a sieve, beat the curd in a basin, together with about i oz. of butter, two table-spoonsful of orange- flower water, and pounded sugar sufficient to sweeten it. Put it into a mould for two hours before it is sent to table. White wine, sugar, and cream may be mixed together, and poured round the curd, or it may be served in a sauce tureen. NAPOLEON'S PILLS. The Emperor Napoleon I. suffered from an oppression of the chest, and to relieve it employed these pectoral pills :—Gum ammoniac, 4 scruples ; squills, 4 scruples ; ipecacuanha, 1 drachm. Make into forty-eight pills with syrup. Two to be taken night and morning. NARCOTICS are also called sedatives, ano- dynes, hypnotics, and soporifics. They are sub- stances which, in a moderate dose, occasion a temporary increase of the actions of the nervous and vascular systems, but which is followed by a greater depression of the vital powers than is commensurate with the degree of previous ex- citement, and which is generally followed by sleep. The relative intensity of these primary and secondary effects varies in the different narcotics, and even in the same narcotic in different doses. In some cases, especially if the quantity ad- ministered be considerable, the symptoms of di- minished sense and action follow so immediately that the previous stage of increased action is very obscure, or not in the least perceptible; while in other cases the operation of the sub-C 246 J NEA NAS stance is more particularly directed towards the heart and arteries, and syncope succeeds its exhibition. The operation of narcotics arises from a pecu- liar stimulating power, remarkable for the ex- treme rapidity with which it exhausts the energy of the nervous system. No one will deny the stimulating powers of alcohol, and yet a very large draught of this liquor will occasion extreme exhaustion, without the occurrence of any signs of previous excitement; nor will any one be disposed to question the depressing influence of opium, and yet small doses have enkindled ex- citement, and sustained the powers of life, under circumstances of extreme and alarming exhaus- tion. From the celeiity with which narcotics pro- duce their effects, it is reasonable to suppose that they act upon the nervous system through the sympathetic relations of the stomach, al- though, in some instances, it is highly probable that these bodies are actually absorbed into the circulation. We are inclined to think that this occui's with opium, as death is accelerated, in cases of persons poisoned by it, by the adoption of those measures which are best calculated to promote its absorption. Whether the effects of spirituous potations are to be attributed to the introduction of alcohol into the blood, or to the sympathies existing between the stomach and Lrain, is still a question of doubt. NASSAU PUFFS. Take six eggs, and divide the yolks from the whites; put the yolks into a large basin, and beat them with a wooden spoon; put them to a table-spoonful of sifted sugar and three spoonsful of flour, beaten well together; then beat the whites in a pan, and when they are of a very strong froth put them to the yolks, mixing them very carefully, not to beat down the whites. Next drop eight with a spoon on a sheet of paper the size of a small tea-cup, and build them as high as you can; then drop as many flat ones as you have high ones ; bake them in a cool oven, and when of a very pale brown, inclijjing to yellow, they are done. Take them off the paper by slipping a knife under them ; then spread some raspberry jam or other sweetmeat on the flat ones, put the high ones on the top of them, and stick some spots of jelly on different parts of them. They have a very pretty appearance, and make a handsome dish for a second course. NASTURTIUMS, PICKLED. As soon as the blossoms are ofi" gather the fruit, put it into cold water with some salt, and shift it once a day for three successive days. Make a cold pickle of white wine vinegar, a little white wine, shallot, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg cut in quarters, and horseradish, and put the nastur- tiums into this pickle. NAUSEA, or Sickness, denotes a propensity and exertion to vomit, which may be induced by various causes, such as apoplexy, fevers, violent pain, ci'ude aliment, indigestion, diseases of tlie liver, &c., but especially by any local irritation of the digestive organs. This affection, though disagreeable, is often veiy serviceable, by relieving the stomach when overloaded with incongruous matter, and b_ promoting expectoration in cases where the lungs are oppressed with mucus or phlegm. Farther, it often induces sensible perspiration, and contributes to the proper distribution of the fluids throughout the body. Hence nausea hat proved to be an excellent remedy in variou; complaints, where it was artificially excited b^ the smallest doses of emetics. In some cases, however, it is injurious to the patient, especially when too violent or too frequently repeated, as it is apt to debilitate the stomach; so that, in consequence of the necessary exertions, the patient becomes exhausted, and is apt to be afflicted with ruptures or other maladies. Pregnant women are particularly subject to nausea and vomiting, which, if they be not timely mitigated, are productive of the most serious consequences. With a view to afford some relief in those distressing situations, the use of acidulated mineral waters, especially those of Seidlitz, is recommended. The water of pure ammonia, or caustic vegetable alkali, has often been found eminently useful in cases where acidity prevails, such as heartburn, cough upon taking food, and other complaints of pregnancy. Twenty drops of the pure ammonia or of liquor potassae are to be taken in a glass of water, from which the patient usually experiences immediate relief. NEAT'S FEET, FRIED. Boil the neat's feet, blanch and split them, and then fry them ia clarified butter; or take out the bone, and fiy them in butter, with a little salt and some good stock. When you have fried them a little put in some mint, thyme, and parsley shred small, and some beaten pepper; beat the yolks of eggs, mutton stock, vinegar, the juice of lemon or orange, and nutmeg; pour the sauce upon it, and serve. NEAT'S FOOT; To Roast. Boil and blanch it, and let it stand till cold ; then lard it, and fasten it on a small spit, basting it with butter, vinegar, and nutmeg. For sauce toast some bread, soak it in claret and vinegar, strain it, put the liquor into a pipkin, with a few cloves, ginger, and pounded cinnamon ; set it on the fire, and stir it with a branch of rosemary till it is pretty well thickened. Dish the foot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. NEAT'S FOOT PUDDING. Boil a couple of peat's feet till they are tender; mince thaNEC [ 247 ] NEA meat small -with an equal quantity of beef suet; season with salt, cinnamon, and sugar; mince i lb. of orange-peel very fine; put in two handsful of grated bread, six or eight eggs, and currants at pleasure. Mix all these well to- gether; butter a pudding-bag, put in your pudding, tie it up closely, and let it boil two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. NEAT'S TONGUE IN CAUL. Boil a tongue sufficiently to peel, then lard it, and split it without separating it in two. Fry some sliced onions in fresh hog's lard; put to them two or three spoonsful of hog's blood, about ^ lb. of lard chopped, a few fine spices, and salt. Simmer these, stirring continually until the blood is well mixed. Lay a caul in the bottom of your dish, and spread upon it part of this preparation; then place in the tongue, and cover it with the remainder ; roll it up in the caul, and garnish the dish with bread crumbs. Lastly, put it into the oven to bake, and to take a good colour; clean the dish free from fat, and serve the tongue under a sauce made with a little cullis, jelly broth, and lemon. NEAT'S TONGUE, FRIED. Boil it, then cut it into thin slices, and season with nutmeg, cinnamon, and sugar. Dip the slices of tongue into yolks of eggs, adding a little lemon juice. Make some butter very hot in a frying-pan, fry your tongue, pour the eggs in by spoonsful, and when they are done serve them up with white wine, butter, and sugar, well beaten to- gether. NEAT'S TONGUE PIE. Scald a tongue, boil it in plain water, and when almost done peel and cut it into slices. Make what paste you please; put the slices of tongue upon it, with pepper and salt, two good slices of ham, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, three heads of cloves, thyme, and a bay leaf; cover with slices of bacon and butter, and put the pie in the oven to bake. When done take out the bacon and parsley ; skim the fat off very clean, and add a Spanish sauce, or any other that you may think better. NEAT'S TONGUE RAGOUT. Lard a tongue with large lardons, and braise it in a little braise, with broth, a bunch of parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, two heads of cloves, one of garlic, onions, and roots. Peel it, and split it in two ; serve upon it what ragout you think pro^ per, such as sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, small onions, &c. NEAT'S TONGUE, EOASTED. Scald a tongue, parboil it in broth or water, with salt and pepper, two onions, carrots, parsnips, two cloves, garlic, a bay leaf, and thyme, When boiled enough to peel take it out, lard it as a fricandeau, and finish it in roasting. Serve under it a relishing sauce, or send it up plain. NEAT'S TONGUE, ROASTED (the Fbench Manner). Boil a neat's tongue, blanch it, and set it by till it is cold; then cut a hole in the under part, and take out the meat; mince it with two or three hard eggs, an apple, beef suet, and bacon; season with salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs shred very fine. Stuff the tongue with this forcemeat, then cover the end with a veal caul, lard it with bacon, and roast it. Serve with a sauce made of gravy, butter, and the juice of oranges. Garnish the dish with sliced lemon-peel and barberries. NEAT'S TONGUE WITH TRUFFLES. Boil a pickled neat's tongue two hours, take off the skin, and let it remain till cool; then cut a large incision in the under part, and fill it with light forcemeat, having some green truffles pounded in it; sew it up, trim it neatly, rub it over with yolk of egg, and cover it with paste made with beef marrow instead of butter. After- wards wash the paste over with white of egg, ornament it in the same manner as a raised pie with the remaining part of the paste ; then bake it till tender in a moderately heated oven, and serve it up with truffle sauce under ; or it may be served with stewed spinach or turnips. NEATS' TONGUES, PICKLED. Takr neats' tongues that look red out of the pickle, cut off the roots, and let them boil till the skin will come off easily; season them with salt, pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, rubbing them well into the tongues while they are hot; then put them into a pan, cover them with melted butter and bake them. When they are done pour off all the butter, keep back the gravy, put them into a fresh pan, and cover them with more butter an inch thick. NECK, DERBYSHIRE. This disease is marked by a tumour on the fore part of the neck, between the windpipe and skin. Although it is a common disease in Derbyshire, it is by no means of frequent occurrence in other parts of our island. It is known by the name of the goitre among the mountains of the Alps, Savoy, and Piedmont, where it prevails to a most hideous extent. It has been attributed to the use of the snow water running down into the valleys from the mountains. A tincture of iodine rubbed into the swelling has proved suc- cessful in these tumours. Burnt sponge made into lozenges, and suffered to dissolve gradually under the tongue, as an internal medicine, has been employed with some degree of success, e.g. .•—Take burnt sponge, 6 drachms ; powder of gum arable, 1 drachm; powdered ginger, \ drachm; common syrup, enough to form the mass. To be divided into twelve lozenges, one of which is to be used as above directed. NECK, STIFF. Warm fomentations, even of very hot water, applied by flannels dippedNEC [ 218 ] into it, will usually remove tliis inconvenience. We have seen it cured immediately by a hot washerwoman's iron being applied to the stiff side, two or three folds of flannel interposing. NECKLACES. See Anodyne Necklaces. NECTAR (1). Take 2 lbs. of raisins chopped, and 4 lbs. of loaf sugar; put them into a vessel with a tap to it, and pour two gallons of boiling water upon them. The next day, when cold, slice two lemons into it. Let it stand five days, stirring it twice a day, and then let it stand five days more to clear. Bottle it, put it into a cold cellar for ten days, and it will be fit to drink. NECTAR (2). Take I lb. of the best raisins stoned and chopped, four lemons sliced thin, with the yellow rind pared off from two other lemons, and 2 lbs. of loaf sugar powdered. Put into a porcelain preserving kettle two gallons of water, stew it over the fire, and boil it half an hour; then, when the water is boiling hard, put in the raisins, lemon, and sugar, and continue the boiling for ten minutes. Pour the mixture into a vessel with a close cover, and let it stand four days, stirring it twice a day; then strain it through a linen bag and bottle it. It will be fit for use in a fortnight. It may be drunk from wine-glasses with a small bit of ice in it. NECTARINE PUDDING. Scald the fruit; peel, beat, and sweeten it. Beat six yolks and two whites of eggs, and mix the whole together with a pint of cream; put it into a dish lined with cream paste : as the pudding stuff requires a moderate oven, puff paste will not answer. A cook ought to attend to this, as either the paste or pudding will be spoiled unless she does. Make a paste of the kernels, and put it into the pudding. NECTARINES : To Peeserve. Split the nectarines, and take out the stones; then put them into clarified sugar, boil them till they have thoroughly taken the sugar, clear off all the scum, cover them with paper, and set them by. The following day boil a little more sugar to a strong souffle, put it to the nectarines, and give them a good boil; take off the scum, cover them, and put them into the stove. The next day drain them, and lay them out to dry, having previously dusted them a little with sugar, and then put them into the stove again. NEEDLES. The principal varieties of needles are—croivn or common; WliitecliaiJel; royal improved; best London; best Chappel; best sorted Chappel; blunts, used by glovers and tailors; yarn, looping, and knitting needles; Williamss, Daviss; Sheppard's, and Boultons (these are sold in papers containing twenty- five each); ivorsted darners, stouter and longer, and the eye larger than the cotton; and packing needles. An instrument called a needle threader has been invented, which is found to be ex- tremely useful to those whose sight is not very good. A small hole is bored longitudinally in a piece of wood or metal of the size of a thick blacklead pencil, into which the needle to be threaded is placed with its eye down- wards ; a hole is made in the side of the threader just opposite the place where the eye of the needle will reach to ; and this hole is made conical, spreading outwards. Although it might be difficult to see the eye of the needle itself out of the threader, yet there can be no difficulty in seeing this conical aperture, and in directing the thread into it; but, as soon as the point of the thread is pushed into it, it cannot fail to pass through the eye of the needle, which may then be drawn out threaded. It is obvious that a single threader can only suit one size of 11G G cll 6 NELSON PUDDING. Put into a Dutch oven six rice cakes made in tea-cups. When hot pour over them melted butter, white wine, and sugar, and serve them up. NERVOUS FEVER. The symptoms are lassitude, loss of appetite, the pulse low and frequent, alternate cold and hot fits, a bad unusual taste, thirst, vomiting, and depression of spirits. The strength is greatly impaired. The urine is scanty and fetid. There are pains in the head, back, and loins. The functions of the brain are a little disturbed. In severe attacks the perspiration is copious and exhaust- ing. Looseness supervenes, and delirium, which is low and constant. The causes are such as poor diet, bad air, want of exercise, sleep interrupted, immoderate venery, mental aiSiction, and too powerful evacuations. Nervous fever may be known from that of the inflammatory description by the state of the pulse, prostration of sti'ength, and by the fear and anxiety which attend it; and from the putrid febrile affection by the heat, thirst, and. vomiting being less, and by the absence of malignant eruption. The favourable symptoms of this disease, which proves sometimes of long continuance, are the tongue keeping moist, the pulse be- coming fuller, eruptions about the mouth, and delirium being seldom present. Profuse sweat copious discharge by stool, faintings, great pi'os- tration of strength, and constant delirium, are indications of danger. Trembling of the hands and tongue, gathering of the bedclothes, and starting of the tendons are forerunners of a fatal termination. Tea with cream and sugar, coffee, chocolate, broth, lemonade, negus, wine, beef tea, jellies and by degrees the stronger articles of nutritious diet, may be had recourse to.[ 2-19 ] NER NER Moderate warmth will be required. Pure air sliould be admitted into the apartment. The person afflicted must avoid unnecessary motion. The slightest tendency toward sleep is to be encouraged. The hands and face, as means of cleanliness, are to be washed with cold water. Such parts as feel hot without perspiration may occasionally be made gradually cool. During the more urgent symptoms light should be partially excluded. Noise is also to be guarded against, as well as those objects which too strongly influence the other organs of sense, The mind is as much a_ possible to be sup- ported. A vomit should be given on the accession of the disease. Febrifuge cordials, volatiles, cor- roborants, such as Peruvian bark, and the nitric acid diluted to a mild acidity, may be also taken. Should there be profuse discharge by stool opiates may be administered. A clyster of the emollient kind, and blisters suitably applied, are proper in urgent cases. NERVOUS HEADACHE is sometimes attended with symptoms so strongly indicative ot compression of the brain, from over-distention of blood-vessels, that it is often a very nice point to determine whether the complaint be purely nervous, or whether the brain is not dis- ordered by a plethoric state of its blood-vessels. Giddiness, ringing in the ears, impei-fect vision, confusion of mind, a sense of heaviness, nausea, and vomiting, are not only the conse- quences of compression of the brain from over- distention of blood-vessels, but also of depletion. They precede the apoplectic fit from plethora, and also the fainting fit from the loss of blood. In nervous headache the pupils of the eyes are generally contracted, and m tbe headache from plethora they are generally much dilated, often one more than the other ; but in cases of nervous lieadache, when the cerebral system is in a state of debility, the pupils are also dilated. The pulse in the nervous headache is languid and small, and the extremities cold; but in the plethoric headache it is generally full, and the extremities warm It, however, the brain be much compressed by the over-distended vessels, the pulse will be languid, and the skin cool. The nervous headache may be distinguished from the plethoric by placing the head or body in a position which favours the afflux of blood to the brain, or checks its return from the brain. If in a horizontal position, or during stooping, or looking upwards or backwards when in an erect position, the giddiness or pulsation in the head be increased, the inference is, the blood- vessels of the head are overloaded, and the brain disturbed by compression or increased vascular action; but if they produce no aggrava- tion of the leading symptoms, and especially if they afford relief, there can be no doubt of the complaint being nervous, and that the state of the blood-vessels has little to do with it. Some practitioners have asserted that the nervous headache may be distinguished from the plethoric by a stimulus, as brandy or wine applied to the stomach ; but when the plethoric state is merely local, that is, not dependent on general plethora, a cordial or stimulant applied to the stomach, by increasing the circulation in the bowels, will produce a diversion in favour of the overloaded brain A bandage applied round the head ovei the temples affords great relief in the nervous headache, but in the plethoric produces con- fusion. Nervous subjects, especially those who are of a gouty habit, are very liable to attacks of cough, termed nervous cough, on unfavourable changes in the atmosphere, from irritation at the top of the windpipe, or in the part termed the larynx; and, from the continued tickling sensa- tion at the upper part of the windpipe, it is often very distressing. The irritation soon gives way to the following mixture :—Take of compound spirit of sulphuric ether 3 drachms; tincture of colchicum seeds, 2 drachms; camphorated mixture, 4 ozs. Mix. One or two table-spoons- ful to be taken three times a day. The inhala- tion of the vapour of ether or of tar also affords immediate relief. To keep the stomach in a quiet state nervous subjects should be very particular in the choice of articles of diet. The peculiarities of the nervous habit are so very opposite, that the best advice a medical man can give to a nervous in- valid is to avoid those articles which evidently disagree with the stomach, and not to oppress or over-stimulate it with too great a quantity of those which do agree. So far as a general rule can be laid down we should say, avoid all green vegetables in a raw state (as celery, water- cresses, lettuce, onions, cucumbers, radishes, melons, &c.), pickles, cheese, pastry, nuts, wal- nuts, sweetmeats, soups, broths, new potatoes, sweet ale, green tea, coffee, and all burnt articles, as English coffee, crust of bread, and outside of foasted meat. The best article for breakfast is the sassafras cocoa, with sugar and milk, brown bread (not new), or sea biscuits with a Mttle butter. The aromatic property of this cocoa promotes digestion, and prevents the accumulation of flatus in the stomach and intestines, a property which neither tea, common cocoa, chocolate, nor coffee possesses. For dinner the interior of roasted or boiled mutton, beef, boiled or roasted fowl, lamb, partridge, hare, &c., with mashed potatoes, asparagus, green peas, or cabbage, with pepper ; and finish with an anchovy instead of cheese. With respect to beverage he should take that which he finds to promote digestion,NER NER [ -250 ] either diluted spirit or ■well-fermented malt liquor. After dinner be may encourage a nap in the chair for a few minutes, provided he be drowsy, and finds himself refreshed by it. For supper he may take a basin of broth or light bread pudding; and, if malt liquor be necessary to quiet the system or dispose it to sleep, he may take with it an anchovy and some bread. Generally speaking three meals a day are sufficient for the nourishment or support of the body; but in nervous subjects there are often such peculiarities of stomachs, that it is common for local nervous excitement to take place either in the head, heart, or bowels, when the stomach is not engaged, or when it is distended with gas. The determination of blood to the stomach, and increased energy of its nerves, which take place during digestion, often relieve violent nervous headache and other local nervous affections, and for this purpose it is common for nervous sub- jects to have recourse to frequent meals; and when they evidently quiet the system, allay local excessive action, and do not fatigue or oppress the stomach, they should be allowed. With respect to the frequency, quantity, and even quality of meals, a nervous patient should be as competent to judge as the most experienced physician. NERVOUSNESS. Of all diseases incident to mankind those of the nervous kind are the most complicated and difficult to cure. A vo- lume would not be sufficient to point out their various appearances. They imitate almost every disease, and are seldom alike in two different persons, or even the same person at differ- ent times. Proteus-like, they are continually changing shape, and upon every fresh attack the patient thinks he feels symptoms which he never experienced before. Nor do they only affect the body; the mind likewise suffers, and is often thereby rendered extremely weak and peevish. The low spirits, timorousness, me- lancholy, and fickleness of temper, which ge- nerally attend nervous disorders, induce many to believe that they are entirely diseases of the mind; but this change of temper is rather a consequence than the cause of nervous diseases. Causes. Everything that tends to relax or ■weaken the body disposes it to nervous diseases, as indolence, excessive venery, drinking too much tea, or other weak watery liquors warm, fre- quent bleeding, purging, vomiting, &c. What- ever hurts the digestion or prevents the proper assimilation of the food has likewise this effect, as long fasting, excess in eating or drinking, the use of windy, crude, or unwholesome ali' ments, an unfavourable posture of the body, &c. Nervous disorders often proceed from intense application to study. Indeed, few studious per- sons are entirely free from them. Nor is this at all to be wondered at. Intense thinking not only preys upon the spirits, but prevents the person from taking proper exercise, by which means the digestion is impaired, the nourish meut prevented, the solids relaxed, and the whole mass of humours vitiated. Grief and dis- appointment likewise produce the same effects. We have known more nervous patients who dated the commencement of their disorders from the loss of a husband, a favourite child, or from some disappointment in life, than from any other cause. In a word, whatever weakens the body or depresses the spirits may occasion nervous disorders, as unwholesome air, want of sleep, great fatigue, disagreeable apprehen- sions, anxiety, vexation, &c. Symptoms. We shall only mention some of the most general symptoms of these disorders, as it would be both a useless and impractica- ble task to enumerate the whole. They gene- rally begin with windy inflations or distentions of the stomach and intestines; the appetite and digestion are usually bad, yet sometimes there is an uncommon craving for food and a quick digestion. The food often turns sour on the stomach, and the patient is troubled with vomiting of clear water, tough phlegm, or a blackish-coloured liquor resembling the grounds of coffee. Excruciating pains are often felt about the navel, attended with a rumbling or murmuring noise in the bowels. The body is sometimes loose, but more frequently bound, ■which occasions a retention of wind and great uneasiness. The urine is sometimes small in quantity, at other times very copious and quite clear; there is a great tightness of the breast, with difficulty of breathing; violent palpitations of the heart; sudden flushings of heat in various parts of the body; at other times a sense of cold, as if water were poured on them; flying pains in the arms and limbs, pains in the back and belly, resembling those occasioned by gi'avel; the pulse very variable, sometimes uncommonly slow, and at other times very quick; yawning, the hiccup, frequent sighing, and a sense of suffocation, as if from a ball or lump in the throat; alternate fits of crying and convulsive laughing; the sleep is unsound and seldom refreshing; and the patient is often troubled with the nightmare. As the disease increases the patient is mo- lested with vertigo, syncope, headaches, cramps, and fixed pains in various parts of the body; the eyes are clouded, and often affected with pain and dryness ; there is a noise in the ears, and often a dulness of hearing; in short, the whole animal functions are impaired. The mind is disturbed on the most trivial occasions, and is hurried into the most perverse commotions,NER [ 251 ] NEK inquietudes, terror, sadness, anger, diffidence, &c. The patient is apt to entertain wild imaginations and extravagant fancies, the memory becomes weak, and the judgment fails. Nothing is more characteristic of this disease than a constant dread of death. This renders those unhappy persons who labour under it peevish, fickle, impatient, and apt to run from one physician to another, which is one reason why they seldom reap any benefit from medicine, as they have not sufficient resolution to persist in any one course till it has time to produce its proper effects. They are likewise apt to imagine that they labour under diseases from which they are quite free, and are veiy angry if any one attempts to set them right, or laugh them out ot their ridiculous notions. Regimen. Persons afflicted with nervous dis- eases ought never to fast long. Their food should be solid and nourishing, but of easy digestion. Fat meats and heavy sauces are hurtful. All excess should be carefully avoided. They ought never to eat more at a time than they can easily digest, and heavy suppers are to be avoided. If they feel themselves weak and faint between meals they ought to eat a bit of bread, and drink a glass of wine. Though wine in excess enfeebles the body and impairs the faculties of the mind, yet taken in modera- tion it strengthens the stomach and promotes digestion. Wine and water is a very proper drink at meals; but if w"ine sours on the sto- mach, or the patient is much troubled with wind, brandy and water will answer better. Everything that is windy or hard of digestion must be avoided. All weak and warm liquors are hurtful, as tea, coffee, punch, &c. People may find a temporary relief in the use of these, but they always increase the malady, as they weaken the stomach and hurt digestion. Above all things, drams are to be avoided. Whatever immediate ease the patient may feel from the use of ardent spirits, they are sure to aggravate the malady, and prove certain poisons at last. These cautions are the more necessary as most nervous people are peculiarly fond of tea and ardent spirits, to the use of which many of them fall victims. Exercise in nervous disorders is superior to all medicines. Riding on horseback is generally esteemed the best, as it gives motion to the whole body without fatiguing it. We have known some patients, however, with whom walking agreed better, and others who were most benefited by riding in a carriage. Every one ought to use that which he finds most beneficial. Long sea-voyages have an excellent effect, and to those who have sufficient resolu- tion we would by all means recommend this course. Even change of place and the sight of new objects, by diverting the mind, have a gi'eat tendency to remove these complaints. For this reason a long journey or a voyage is of much more advantage than riding short journeys near home. A cool dry air is proper, as it braces and invigorates the whole body. Few things tend more to relax and enervate than hot air, espe- cially that which is rendered so by great fires, or stoves in small apartments. But when the stomach or bowels are weak the body ought to be well guarded against cold, especially in win- ter, by wearing a thin flannel waistcoat next the skin. This will keep up an equal perspiration, and defend the alimentary canal from many impressions to which it would otherwise be* sub- ject upon every sudden change from warm to cold weather. Rubbing the body frequently with a flesh-brush or a coarse linen cloth is likewise beneficial, as it promotes the circula- tion, perspiration, &c. Persons who have weak nerves ought to rise early, and take exercise before breakfast, as lying too long in bed cannot fail to relax the solids. They ought likewise to be diverted, and to be kept as easy and cheerful as possible. There is not anything which hurts the nervous system or weakens the digestive powers more than fear, grief, or anxiety. Medicines. Though nervous diseases are sel- dom radically cured, yet their symptoms may sometimes be alleviated, and the patient's life rendered at least more comfortable by proper medicines. WheTi the patient is costive he ought to take a little rhubarb, or some other mild purgative, and should never suff'er his body to be long bound. All strong and violent purgatives are, however, to be avoided, as aloes, jalap, &c. We have generally seen an infusion of senna and rhubarb in brandy answer very well. This may be made of any strength, and taken in such quantity as the patient finds necessary. When the digestion is bad, or the stomach relaxed and weak, the following infusion of Peruvian bark and other bitters may be used with advantage:— Take of Peruvian bark 1 oz.; gentian root, orange-peel, and coriander seed, c^f each ^ oz. Let these ingredients be all bruised in a mortar, and infused in a bottle of brandy or rum for the space of five or six days. A table-spoonful of the strained liquor may be taken in half a glass of water an hour before breakfast, dinner, and supper. Few things tend more to strengthen the ner- vous system than cold bathing. This practice, if duly persisted in, will produce very extraordinary effects; but when the liver or other viscera are obstructed, or otherwise unsound, the cold bath is improper. It is, therefore, to be used with very great caution. The most proper seasonsNET [ 253 ] NET for it are summer and autumn. It will be suf- ficient, especially for persons of a spare habit, to go into the coUl bath three or four times a week. If the patient be weakened by it, or feels chilly for a long time after coming out, it is improper. In patients afflicted with wind we have always observed the greatest benefit from the elixir of vitriol. It may be taken in the quantity of 15, 20, or 30 drops, twice or thrice a day, in a glass of water. This both expels wind, strengthens the stomach, and promotes digestion. Opiates are generally extolled in these mala- dies ; but as they only palliate the symptoms, and generally afterwards increase the disease, we would advise people to be extremely sparing in the use ot them, lest habit should render them at last absolutely necessary. It would be an easy matter to enumerate many medicines which have been extolled for relieving nervous disorders, but whoever wishes for a thorough cure must expect it from regimen alone. We shall, therefore, omit men- tioning more medicines, and again I'ecommend the strictest attention to diet, aie, exercise, and amusements. NETTING. When you are about to com- mence netting take a piece of strong thread, and tie it so as to form a loop, which loop must be attached to something weiglity, or to the worker's foot, to prevent it from drawing while working. Then tie the thread on the needle to the loop, and take the mesh, pin, or needle into the left hand, holding it across the open fingers with the thumb. With the right hand then pass the thread across over the mesh, and round under the fingers to the thumb, where hold it firmly; then pass the needle through the loop formed upon the left hand, and also through the loop of strong thread, so as to se- cure the stitch to it. Then draw the thread closely round the mesh, gradually withdrawing the fingers from the loop, and using them so as to prevent the loop from entangling while the knot is forming. Make as many of these stitches as jnay be required, one after the other. To make the article round, join the first and last loops together by netting a stitch through them. Widen by netting a certain number of stitches through one of the loops. Narrow by passing the needle through several of the loops, and netting them into one stitch.— {The Finchleij Manual of Plain Needlework.) NETTLE (Urtica'dioica). From time im- memorial the bark of this plant has been em- ployed in the manufacture of textile fabrics, particularly by the ancient Egyptians. In Si- beria, even at the present day, it furnishes the inhabitants with fishing-lines and cordage; and M. Bonafous states that in many villages of Piedmont it is converted into cloths. A plant so abundant as this is might be employed to some useful purpose, when fibrous materials are so much in demand, and the supply so limited. When the plant is required to furnish fibre it should be cut in the middle of summer, and afterwards treated like hemp. The fibre might be put to many uses, and among others it has been found to make good paper. The roots yield a colouring matter, and, when boiled with alum, dye yarn of a yellow colour. The young shoots in spring supply a wholesome vegetable when boiled in the same way as other greens, and in some parts of the country they are ex- tensively used in this way. As a fodder for domesticated animals the great nettle has been cultivated in Sweden for a very long pei'iod. Cows fed upon it yield a greater quantity of milk, and of richer quality. Horses are fat- tened and improved in appearance by the seeds being mixed in their corn, so that jockeys always so use them, to give a lively air to the animal before selling him. Fowls eat the seeds with avidity, and by mixing them in their food they become fat, and are much increased in weight. The whole plant has been considered excitant, lithontriptic, emmenagogue, anti-asthmatic, ape- rient, and astringent. A decoction of the plant, strongly salted, will coagulate milk, without giving it any unpleasant flavour. NETTLE PUREE. Pick and blanch the nettles ; strain and reduce them; rub a little flour or oatmeal in butter, and add the water the nettles were cooked in, or stock, w'th pepper and salt. This is an excellent dish for those afflicted with spitting of blood. They may also be dressed as spinach. NETTLE RASH. This disease is attended with slight symptoms of fever, in some instances scarcely perceptible. About the second day an eruption may be perceived on the skin, not un- like the effect of the irritation of nettles. It generally vanishes in the day, and returns along with the fever in the morning. In a few days it departs in a scaly substance. Occasionally it is accompanied with lumps or swellings, which appear of a solid texture. The eruption, as resembling the effects of the sting of nettles, is so strong a characteristic, that it will not be easy to mistake the affection. It requires suitable articles of vegetable diet, together with lessening of temperature, and of the influence of the other natural powers. Recourse may be had to simple purgatives. NETTLE SOUP, or Kail. Have water on the fire, with a little clarified dripping, butter, the stock of roast beef bones, or any other stock; cut up young nettles, put them into it, and mix one or two handsful of oatmeal[ 253 ] NEW NIG perfectly into it Let it simmer on the side of the fire. NEW COLLEGE PUDDING. Grate the crumb of a stale twopenny loaf, add to it the same weight of beef suet shred, a grated nutmeg, a little salt, and 2 ozs. of currants; beat a few eggs in some sherry wine and sugar, mix the whole together, knead it into a paste, and let it stand a quarter of an hour, after which put it into the form and size of a turkey's egg, but flatter. Put 1 lb. of fresh butter in a dish over a clear fire or a stove, and rub the butter round till melted; then lay the puddings in it, and cover them, taking care to turn them often, that they may be all browned alike. When done serve them up hot as a side dish, with grated sugar. These puddings take their name from New College, Oxford, where they have been famous from time immemorial. NEW YEAR CAKE. Mix together 3 lbs. of flour, 1^ lb. of sugar, and f lb. of butter; dis- solve a tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of potass in enough new milk to wet the flour, mix them together, grate in a nutmeg or the peel of a lemon, roll it out, cut it in shapes, and bake. NEWSPAPERS. See Letters. NIGHT AIR. The perspiration is often obstructed by night air : even in summer this ought to be avoided. The dews which fall plentifully after the hottest day make the night more dangerous than when the weather's cool. Hence in warm countries the evening dews are more hurtful than where the climate is more temperate. It is very agreeable after a warm day to 1 o abroad in a cool evening; but this is a pleasure to be avoided by all who value their health. The effects of evening dews are gradual, indeed, and almost imperceptible ; but they are not the less to be dreaded : we would, therefore, advi; e travellers, labourers, and all who are much heated by day, carefully to avoid them.. When the perspiration has been great they become dangerous in proportion. By not attending to this, in flat marshy countries, where the exhak- tions and dews are copious, labourers are often seized with intermitting fevers, quinsies, and other dangerous diseases. NIGHT CAP, LADY'S. We are indebted to " The Magazine of Domestic Economy " for the following specimens and descriptions :— No. 1 is composed of four strips of lace or muslin insertion, cut of a sufficient length to fit the head, between each of which is placed a strip of muslin about three quarters of a yard in length, and from an inch and a half to two inches in width at the upper or widest part, they being a little narrower at the ends, so as to fit the head. The insertion should either be lined or corded on each side, the first method being the strongest. If it be adopted, the pieces of muslin which are to form the cap may be whipped on both sides, and the half of eaci side sewed into half the insertion ; but if the latter plan be preferred, a fine cord must be covered with muslin, and tacked on each side of the insertion; the pieces of muslin for the cap must in this case be gathered (a little more than the eighth of an inch within the raw edge), instead of being whipped, and sewed to the corded insertion by means of a stitch and back- stitch. The raw edges on the inside must be 2 J neatly overcast. The strips of muslin for this cap are generally cut the cross-way. The back is formed by a horseshoe. In all cases where insertion is used it may be lined with a strip of the best French gingham of some delicate colour: this washes well with the cap, and looks as well as ribbon. No. 2 is a very snug cap. The head-piece is formed of one piece of muslin, the horseshoe caul of another; both pieces to be cut suffi- ciently long and wide to admit of their being[ ft54 ] NIG NIT drawn to the size of the head, either hy very liue bobbin run in at the intervals represented in the figure, or, as is now more general, by running in a strong thread. When both parts are drawn up to the required size they are to be joined together with a cord between them, the edges inside to be overcast as before directed. The front and ends are to be sewed into a narrow double muslin band : the cap is then ready for bordering. No. 3 is, perhaps, better calculated for an elderly than a young lady : it is formed of two pieces, joined all through the centre of the cap by means of a strip of insertion. The binders are broad strips of muslin, joined to the cap at a; they cross each other at the back, and tie on the top. In No. 4 the head-piece is plain, and all in one ; but the border, arranged as we have re- presented it, has a very pretty appearance. No. 5 is a very pretty cap, and easily made. The head-piece may be either single or double, and may be ornamented with a strip of insertion both at the front and back part. The rows of trimming in No. 6 may be either lace, or muslin edged with lace: they must be whipped and seamed on to the cap. It all Aivashes nicely together. If the borders are to be edged with lace it should be done previously to their being whipped, the edging being held next to you. Care must be taken not to stretch it in the business of seaming on; on the con- trary, it should be held easily in the hand during the operation. It will be observed that, in many shapes now worn, the borders aro arranged plain in the front, as in figs. 3 and 6. NIGHT CAPS. These consist of " last-at- night " beverages, known as " bishop" and " swig." For compounding Bishop we have given due directions. Swig is thus made :—Put into a bowl J lb. of Lisbon sugar, pour on it one pint of warm beer, grate a nutmeg and some ginger into it, add four glasses of sherry, and five additional pints of beer; stir the whole well, sweeten it to your taste, and let it stand covered up two or three hours; then put three or four slices of bread, cut thin and toasted brown, into it, and it is fit for use. Sometimes two or three slices of lemon, and a few lumps of loaf sugar rubbed on the peeling of a lemon, are introduced. Bottle this mixture, and in a few days it may be drunk in a state of effervescence. NIGHT LIGHTS. See (Jandles. NIGHTMx\RE. ^ee Ikcubus. NIGHTSHADE. See Anodynes and Bel- ladonna. NIPPERS, SCOTCH. Make a stiff paste of flour, milk, and a small bit of butter; beat and roli it very thin, cut the nippers very large, prick them well, and bake them on a griddle, or an iron plate over a stove. They must be turned. NIPPLES. We shall here, in a few words, allude to the principal causes giving rise to flat and sore nipples. These, in most instances, are produced by the unnatural practice of pressing them in by tight stays. A strong healthy child should be applied to draw them out when too flat for a new-bora infant to take hold of them. The superficial ulcers and cracks which so often arise on the nipples, and which give such exqui- site pain, may generally be prevented by washing the nipples night and morning, for some months before lying-in, with brandy and water, or a lotion made with 2 scruples of the sulphate of zinc (white vitriol), ^ oz. of the spirits of wine, and 2 ozs. of rose water. It is of considerable importance to keep the nipples diy after the child has done sucking, and to secure this they should be wiped, and then dusted with powdered rotten-stone. When they become sore great attention is required. The infant should draw them through an ivory or glass shield with the prepared teat of a heifer. The nipples must be always covered with the shield, so that they may not be liable to j^ressure; and great care should be taken that the newly formed tender skin be not torn off by the coverings of the breast being left sticking to it. If the mother has but the resolution to make the attempt she will be able to suckle, though she may have been foiled in two, or three, or more previous confinements. NITPtE, or Saltpetre [nitrate of potash), is well known by its use in making gunpowder, pickling meat, &c. Purified nitre is prescribed with advantage in numerous disorders. It is usually given in doses of from two or three grains to a scruple, being a very cooling and resolvent medicine, which, by relaxing the spas- modic rigidity of the vessels, promotes not only the secretion of urine, but at the same time insensible perspiration in febrile disordei's, while it allays thirst and abates heat, though in malignant cases, in which the pulse is low, and the patient's strength exhausted, it produces contrary effects. When combined with the Peruvian bark, nitre affords a useful corrective to that drug in the cure of spreading gangrenes, as it prevents the additional heat which the baik frequently occasions, so that the efficacy of the latter is increased by the antiseptic quality of the former. But this cooling salt should never be administered in cases where the violence of the fever depends on bilious or putrid impurities in the abdomen, and where the patient is subject to hemorrhages or fluxes of blood, arising from a vitiated state of the[ 255 ] NIT NOV fluids. On the contrary, saltpetre will be most beneficially used in acute rheumatisms, inflam- matory fevers, and even in those hemorrhages arising from congestions of the blood in general, or from a plethoric state. NITEE, SWEET SPIEIT OF. This is the same as nitric ether, and is prepared by distillation from a mixture of nitric acid (aqua- fortis) and spirit of wine. See Ether. NODDY PUDDING. Beat some blanched almonds very finely, add one or two spoonsful of rose water or cream, strain the whole through a sieve, boil, and set it by to cool; then thicken it with beaten eggs, sweeten with fine lump sugar dissolved in rose water, and tie it up in different bags; boil them half an hour in a small saucepan, and melt butter with rose water and sugar for the sauce. These curious puddings may be coloured with spinach juice, safl'ron, beet, and other articles. NOISES IN THE HEAD AND EAES. The most usual phenomenon is that of a rushing sound in one or both ears, which persons com- pare to that of wind or the tide, as it often resembles the wind by having gradually in- creasing and decreasing gusts, and the tide by consisting of alternate waves. The sensation generally increases towards night, and is often perceived only on lying down. On some occa- sions it is said to resemble music, more par- ticularly the riiiging of bells, and has also been compared to the squeaking of rats or mice, and to the sound of human voices. These noises often occur in the same patient, with various other disorders termed nervous. They not only sometimes overpower the accurate perception of other sounds, but accompany the commencement of occasional or permanent deaf- ness, such as has been said to arise from preter- natural fulness of blood in the organ of hearing. Hence, in common with deafness, the noises are often a mere temporary effect of cold in the head. If, therefore, the theory of that species of deafness, and of other disorders, of which these noises in the ears make a part, be well founded, these circumstances might be consi- dered as sufficient to prove that such noises depend on the rush of blood through some part of the ear. This conclusion will derive additional force from the following circumstances, which show the relation of the malady in question to other excessive determinations of blood to the head. These noises are apt to be produced by whatever increases the action of the heart, as hot rooms, late hours, long watching, strong drink, violent muscular exertion, long or excessive mental attention, and whatever agitates the mind ; and they are diminished by all the causes which have a contrary operation, such as cool air, temperate living, adequate rest, and everything which quiets the action of the heart. NONPAREIL WATER. See Eau Sans Pareille. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS. See Dumplings, Norfolk. NORFOLK FLUID. This is applied to leather for softening and preserving it. Melt together 4 ozs. of yellow resin ; 2 ozs. of fir resin ; 12 ozs. of bees' wax ; 3 pints of linseed oil. When melted add 1 quart of neat's-foot oil and 1 pint of oil of turpentine. See Boots and Leather (Waterproofing). NORFOLK PUDDING PUFFS. Mix three eggs, three table-spoonsful of flour, half a pint of cream, and two table-spoonsful of orange- flower or rose water; sweeten the whole with sugar, put the batter into deep custard cups about half full, set them in the oven, and when the puffs rise to the top they are done. NORFOLK PUNCH (1). To twenty quarts of brandy put the peels of thirty lemons, and as many oranges peeled extremely thin ; let them infuse twelve hours, and then take thirty quarts of water that has been boiled, but become cold, and put to it 15 lbs. of double-refined sugar. When well mixed pour it on the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges, and that of twenty-four lemons. Incorporate all these mixtures thoroughly, and then strain the whole through a hair sieve into a clean barrel that has held spirits, and put to it two quarts of new milk ; stir it, and bung it closely. Let it stand six weeks in a wai-m cellar, and then bottle the liqueur for use, observing great care that the bottles are clean and dry, and the corks good. This will keep for years. NORFOLK PUNCH (2). Pare six lemons and three Seville oranges thin, squeeze the juice into a jug, and put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white wine, one of milk, and 11 lb. of sugar; mix the whole well, and then cover it for twenty-four hours ; strain through a jelly bag till it is clear, and bottle it. NOSE, BLEEDING. See Bleeding Nose. NOSE, REDNESS OF. See Borax. NOTICE TO QUIT. See House. NOTTINGHAM PUDDING. Peel and core six apples, but leave them whole, which is done by picking out the cores with the point of a small knife, and filling up the cavity with sugar. Place the apples in a pie dish, pour over them a little batter, aHd bake in a moderate oven. NOUGATS. Blanch f lb. of shelled almonds and \ lb. of bitter shelled almonds; throw them into cold water, and then take them out and wipe them ; cut them into small pieces, but do not pound them, and mix them well together. Break small 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and add to it[ 256 ] NO Y NOU half a pint of cold water, with 1 oz. of isinglass dissolved in a very little boiling water. Boil and skim the sugar well, and when it is quite clear squeeze over the almonds the juice of two lemons, and throw them into the sugar ; stir the almonds so as to mix them well with the syrup, and then take the kettle off the fire. Have ready a mould or square tin pan well buttered, and put the mixture into it a little at a time, making only a thin coat of it round the mould or pan. Take care that the almonds are equally dispersed through the sugar before it cools; but if it becomes cold before the almonds are well mixed, set it over the fire again to melt. Turn it frequently in the mould to prevent it from sticking. When it has become a hard cake set the mould for a moment in warm water, and turn it out. When turned out it is in a hollow cake. In stirring it a wooden spoon had better be used. NOUILLE PASTE. Into 1 lb. of butter break three or four eggs, and add J oz. of melted butter, with as much flour as will make it into a paste; beat it well with the hands, gather it together, and let it repose half an hour; give it two or three turns, divide it in four, and roll out as thin as possible ; cut them in ribbons of an inch and a half broad, dust them with flour, and cut them the size of lai'ge vermicelli as equally as possible. Lay them in the air on paper for some hours to dry, lifting them from time to time with the points of the fingers of both hands applied at once, tossing them to raise them from the paper. Poach them in boiling salt and water, or milk and water ; let them boil a quarter of an hour. Serve them as macaroni in soup or pottage, into which it ought to be put a few minutes before serving, that it may get the taste of it. NOVEMBER. The articles which are in season during this month are : — Fish. Salmon, salmon trout, turbot, halibut, gurnets, dory, smelts, gudgeon, carp, pike, tench, lobsters, oysters, cockles, and muscles. Fruit. Grapes, apples, pears, services, med- lars, bullace, oranges, walnuts, filberts, and chestnuts. Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, doe venison, hares, and rabbits. Poultry. Geese, turkeys, fowls, chickens, pullets, pigeons, woodcocks, snipes, larks, wild ducks, teal, widgeons, partridges, grouse, phea- sants, and dotterels. * Vegetables. Broccoli, cabbages, savoys, carrots, turnips, paisnips, potatoes, beet, arti- chokes, celery, skirrets, scorzonera, onions, garlic, shallots, rocambole, parsley, sorrel, thyme, savory, sweet maijoram, burnet, lettuce, endive, and Jerusalem artichokes. NOYAU (1). The real liqueur of this name is made in the island of Martinique, upon a foundation of French brandy, with a species of berry grown on the island, and sweetened with syrup. It requires age to give it the flavour of the berry, and even in the West Indies is far from being cheap. The following recipes, however, are good imitations :—Blanch 9ozs. of bitter, and the same quantity of sweet almonds, and bruise them in a mortar; add them, with the rind of two lemons, to one quart of gin or whiskey, which must be kept in a moderate heat for three days and nights ; shake the bottle three or four times a day, and then add 14 ozs. of loaf sugar dissolved in half a pint of boiling water, and let it stand one day and night longer, shaking the bottle frequently; then strain it, and filter it afterwards in blotting paper ; bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six months, but will improve by keeping for a year. NOYAU [2). To one quart of gin, whiskey, or brandy put 3 ozs. of bitter almonds, blanched and cut into pieces, and the rind of three lemons; let it stand three days before the fire, shaking the bottle two or three times a day; then add 1 lb. of good loaf sugar or half a pint of syrup, and let it dissolve, shaking it frequently during the day or two which it will take; then filter it through blotting paper. NOYAU (3). Peaches and nectarines in equal quantities are to be bruised, the stones broken, and the kernels blanched and bruised. They are then to be put into a jar in laj^ers, one of fruit, one of kernels, and one of pounded loaf sugar, and so on until the jar is full. As much brandy, gin, or whiskey is then to be added as the jar will hold, and when it has stood for five or six months it is to be filtered and bottled for use. NOYAU, CREME DE. To six quarts of brandy add one of water, and 4 ozs. of sliced apricot kernels or bitter almonds, infused in the spirit for some days ; distil it, add one pint of orange-flower water, l|lb. of sugar, and three quarts of water. Filter or pass through a bag. NOYAU, ENGLISH (]). Take one gallon of gin or whiskey, 1 lb. of bitter almonds, ^ lb. of sweet almonds (both beaten to a fine paste), and 3 lbs. of lump sugar pounded (some of it with the almonds); let these stand ten d^ys in the gin, filter through blotting paper, and bottle it. NOYAU, ENGLISH (2). Take ^Ib. of bitter almonds, and the thinly pared rind of a fine lemon ; blanch the almonds, and shred the lemon-peel into small pieces; put them together into a mortar, and bruise them to as fine a jJulp as possible; put the pulp into a gallon stone bottle, and add two quarts of diluted spirits of[ 257 ] NO Y NUR •wine (a quart of spirits of wine and a quart of water). Cork the bottle particularly well, make a point of shaking it thoroughly once every day, and at the end of a week it will be ready for the next stage of the process. Now make a syrup of 2 lbs. of lump sugar to a quart of water; let it stand till cold, and then pour it into the bottle; mix the whole well by shaking the bottle, and let it stand another week. Now strain the liqueur from the almond powder, and filter it through white blotting paper. A common funnel will do for the purpose, putting a few slips of wood down between the paper and the funnel. The slips of wood prevent the paper from adhering too closely to the side of the funnel, and in that way accelerate the process. The noyau is now ready for bottling, and may be drunk at once, but should not be used for two months, and is not in perfection till after one vear. NOYAU, FRENCH. To nine quarts of white brandy or whiskey, and one quart of orange- flower water, add 6 ozs. of loaf sugar for each quart of the spirit, and infuse therein as many kernels of apricots as will give it a good flavour. The sugar must be broken very small, and dipped into an equal quantity of common water immediately previous to its being put into the infusion. Afterwards the whole is to be filtered through a flannel or cotton bag. NUNS. Roll puff paste about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into rounds or any other shape, lay upon one piece a small tea-spoonful of any sort of preserved fruit, wet the edges, and put over it another piece of paste; fry them in boiling clarified beef suet or fresh lard, drain them upon the back of a sieve, serve them in a napkin, and strew pounded loaf sugar over them. NUNS' CAKE. See Cake, Nuns'. NUNS' PUFFS. Boil for a few minutes one pint of milk with I lb. of butter, and then stir the milk and butter into \ lb. of flour; stir it until it does not stick to the sides of the pot, let it cool, add the yolks of nine eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in last; butter small round tins, and half fill them. NURSE. See Invalid. NURSEMAID. Mrs. Parkes makes the following very judicious remarks upon this domestic :—The nurse should never be per- mitted to leave an infant even while sleeping, and therefore she ought to have an assistant, or the housemaid should be appointed to bring such things as she may require into the nursery, Buch as coals and water, her different meals, and the food prepared for the child. When there are two or three young children an under nurse- maid becomes absolutely necessaiy. She should possess a good and willing temper and cleanly VOL. II. habits, for fag and waiting upon the nursery must devolve upon her, and she should also be required to walk out with the children. She should be a sufficient sempstress to assist in making and repairing the children's clothes. On no account permit even the most unexcep- tionable servant to inflict on children personal correction. This can only be allowable in the nursery from the hand of a parent, who it can scarcely be supposed would give pain to her offspring from any angry impulse of the moment, but only from the conviction that such punish- ment is the best specific for the faults that are committed. But the mother who suffers her children to be punished by her hirelings, of whose judgment she can have had little reason to form a high opinion, yields to them a power more likely to be exercised in wrath than in the spirit of justice, or with the desire to prevent the repetition of the offence. The power of a nurse ought to extend no further than to enforce by gentle, but decided and firm measures, the wishes and orders of the parent. The habits that an infant's life calls imme- diately into action from its nurse are thoughtful- ness and cleanliness. A nursemaid without the former will not think sufficiently of the comfort of her charge ; she will hear it cry without endeavouring to know the cause, in order to administer relief. It may be suffering pain fi-om bandages and strings too tightly drawn, while its apparent uneasiness, if not unheeded, is attempted to be lulled away, rather than the cause removed. It may be subject, by a careless exposure to draughts of air, or from the effects of too glaring a light, to inflammation of the eyes, the foundation of future diseases which may hereafter impair the vision, if not destroy it altogether. The hearing also may be sacri- ficed to carelessness. Leaving the head damp after washing, and exposure to cold winds, with the ears not well covered, frequently cause the earache and temporary deafness, which may be the origin of that disposition to permanent deaf- ness which frequently shows itself, and saddens the latter periods of life. "What may be the . effects of such misfortunes upon the character and disposition of individuals thus afflicted it is not possible for me to say, but they are such as affectionate parents would earnestly wish to avert from their offspring. From the want of cleanliness of a nurse the health of a child may be greatly affected. If the skin be not well washed the pores will become clogged, and the insensible perspiration impeded, by which the whole system will become deranged ; and this is one cause of the squalid appearance which some children present. Besides this inconvenience, that want of cleanliness and order which is often betrayed at other seasons of life may be sNUR [ 258 ] NUT attributable to such defects having prevailed in the nursery. NURSERY. The tirst and most essential requisite in a nursery is the constant enjoyment and command of a moderately dry, pure air. To obtain this a residence should be selected in a dry and rather elevated situation, removed from all sources of contamination and humidity, and at the same time sheltered from the violence of the wind. When a choice can be made the country should be preferred to the town, as one of the clearest results, for which we are indebted to all recent accurate statistical returns, is the fact of the superior healthiness of the country, especially for the young. The close vicinity to the house of trees or thick shrubbery, of ponds, undrained meadows, or sluggish water-courses, ought to be scrupulously avoided; for, however ornamental they may be, they are invariably prejudicial to health, not only from the humidity and impurities which they diffuse through the air, especially at night, but also from the ob- struction which some of them present to free ventilation. For the same reason narrow valleys, and localities shut up by thick woods, ought never to be chosen as the sites of villages. From overlooking the unfavourable influence of a stagnant, humid air, families going into the country in pursuit of health often sustain serious injury by settling in situations, which a better acquaintance with the laws of animal economy would have shown them beforehand to be very ill suited to the nature of the infant constitution. For those who are obliged to reside in towns it is of great importance to secure the best situ- ation within their reach. Even in point of economy, not to mention the suffering and anxiety attendant on illness, it will be cheaper to pay more for a suitable house in a dry, well- aired quarter, than a smaller sum for one in a low-lying or crowded part of a town. We are acquainted with several instances in which the additional cost incurred in removing to a better district has been more than counterbalanced by a reduction in the expenses of sickness ; and we are anxious to enforce attention to the fact, because it is not unusual for men in business to be guided entirely by personal convenience in the choice of their residence, and to live in a situation, simply because it is near, which they would at once remove from were they aware of its real influence. We have only to contrast the blanched and feeble appearance of children inhabiting the dark and narrow streets of a crowded city, with the rosy freshness of those of the same classes residing in the suburbs or in the country, to obtain a pretty correct notion of the importance of a well-selected locality. Considering the susceptibility to the influence of cold in early infancy, we need hardly add that a high and bleak situation, or one exposed to the lull force of the north and east winds, is equally unfavourable, and ought to be carefully avoided. In addition to a dry and airy situation, a good exposure and cheerful prospect are well worthy of attention in the selection of a residence for the young. In a cloudy and uncertain climate, like that of Britain, a southern aspect is ex- tremely desirable, not only because it is warmer and more cheerful, but because the agency of light, as a gentle and wholesome stimulus, is scarcely less necessary for the animal than for tlie vegetable world. Every one is aware that vegetables are blanched by the exclusion of light, and that corn growing even under the shade of a tree is paler, sicklier, and later in ripening than that growing in the open field ; but we do not keep sufiiciently in mind that on man the operation of light is scarcely less sti'iking. Deprived of its wholesome and enlivening stimu- lus, he becomes pale and sickly in appearance, his blood is imperfectly oxygenated, and a prone- ness to diseases or debility arises. Of these results we find numerous examples in the nar- row lanes and dark cellars of every large town, and in the member's of sedentary professions, and others rarely exposed to the full light of day ; and especially in children we see them all in an aggravated degree. A situation of a gay and cheerful aspect is also particularly desirable, because it is one of those gentle but constantly operating circum- stances which, imperceptibly but certainly, in- fluence both the health and character of a child. And it ought never to be forgotten that in exact proportion to the susceptibility of the infant organisation is the importance of attend- ing to all these apparently minute objects. A dull and confined prospect is a source of dulness and ennui to the naturally active mind of a child, which cannot feel dispirited or gloomy without suffering in its health, and also in its future development; so that, whether we regard its bodily strength or its mental character, we should be equally solicitous to procure a cheerful and enlivening prospect.—{Dr. Combe.) NUT BONBONS. Boil lib. of Spanish nuts. When they are w^ell boiled rub off their skin with a napkin. If some sticks too hard pare it off with a knife. Grate your nuts very fine on a sheet of paper; then take 1 lb. of sugar, put it in a pan over a slow fire, and stir con- stantly with a wooden spoon. When it is melted put in your nuts, work them w^ell till thoroughly mixed, and pour it upon a tin plate; then spread it with a rolling-pin, and this must be done quickly, as it cools very fast. When it is cold cut it into what form you please. You must take care the sugar isNUT [ 259 ] NUT not too much melted, for it is very apt to soften when the nuts are added to it. NUT TART. Beat and blanch ^ lb. of nuts with orange-flower water, a plum or two, cinnamon, ginger, and sugar; beat ten j^olks, and thicken them over the fire with a pint of cream or milk ; mix the whole together w ith some grated Naples biscuit, put it into a sheeted dish, and when baked stick it over with the nuts cut into fillets. NUTMEG, ESSENCE OF Take 2ozs. of the strongest spirit of wine, and add to it 1 drachm of the oil of nutmeg. NUTMEG PUDDING. The yolks of six eggs beaten with four spoonsful of rose water, ^ lb. of fresh butter, two nutmegs, or the same weight of mace ; four Naples biscuits or rusks, grated in f lb. of sugar well pounded, sifted, and beaten up with the butter; three oranges, grated and tied up in a piece of muslin, with several hot waters thrown to it, to exti'act the bitter from it. Beat up all well together, and put a paste on the bottom of the dish. NUTMEGS are too well known to require description. The best are small and round, and are to be preferred to those that are large and egg-shaped. It is said that they are often perforated and boiled, in order to extract their essential oil, and the orifice carefully closed to avoid detection; but the fraud may easily be discovered by their lightness: the oil is con- tained in the dark veins which penetrate the kernel. Butter of nutmegs is obtained by bruising the kernels into a paste, which is com- pressed in bags between hot metal plates, and is the fixed oil of nutmegs. This is met with in commerce in the form of flattened, square masses, of a yellowish colour, solid, marbled internally, 500 parts containing about 60 of essential oil. There are two varieties of it: one in small earthen pots, of mace colour, and • very agreeable smell, is exported from the Moluccas to Holland ; the other, obtained from Holland in flat cakes, far inferior to the first, and is usually adulterated with spermaceti and animal fat. This concrete oil has a certain acridity, and, employed in liniments, excoriates the skin after being rubbed for some time. The essential oil of nutmegs is obtained by powdering the kernels and distilling with water ; it is of a pale straw coloiu", lighter than water, soluble in alcohol and ether, with a pungent taste, and a very strong nutmeg odour. Upon standing it deposits a crystalline stearop- tine, which is called by John mynsticin. In the island of Banda the whole fruit of the nutmeg tree is preserved by boiling it first in water, and afterwards in syrup; or by pick- ling it in brine, vinegar, &c., in a manner Bimilar to walnuts. With respect to their eiTects on the human body, nutmegs are strongly aromatic, stomachic, and astringent: hence this drug has often been used for diarrhoeas and dysenteries, in doses of from 10 to 20 grains in powder, or in larger quantities when infused in port wine. In violent headaches, arising from a debilitated stomach, small doses of this medicine have frequently been found of real service ; but, if injudiciously employed, it is apt to affect the head, not unlike opium and other powerful narcotics. NUTMEGS: To Candy. Take li lb. of double-refined sugar, one-eighth of a pint of rose water, a very little gum arable, and boil these to a candy height. Let your nutmegs be first soaked in water, then put them in an earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep them very closely covered, set them in a warm place for about three weeks, and they will be of a rock candy. NUTMEGS, SYRUP OF Take 2 ozs. of grated nutmegs, and one pint of boiling water ; digest them in a close vessel for twenty-four hours, add 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, and an egg beaten up with a little cold water; boil up together, skim carefully, and reduce it to a syrup. When cold add a glass of brandy to it. This syrup is strongly impregnated with the nut- megs, and forms an agreeable and convenient ingredient in puddings, &c., and all sweet dishes in which nutmegs are used. NUTRITIOUS DIET. When active ani- mating means are necessary, diet of a similar description must be had recourse to. Hence the drink in nervous, malignant, and intermit- tent fevers, as well as in diseases of a corre- spondent kind, where the thirst is considerable, should consist of such articles as lemonade, tea, coffee, or weak wine and water, and gruel with wine. To the former the juice of orange and lemon should be added. Hence, too, salep or sago with wine is proper, as is the temperate use of cyder, perry, bottled ale, porter, and wine in its unmixed state, such as port, claret, sherry, and Madeira. Ripe fruit, as roasted apples, strawberries, currants, and grapes, should be also had recourse to. In severe febrile affections of the nervous and malignant kind, requiring the use of nutritious diet, and of the other invigorating means, the stomach at first rejects sustenance, particularly that of the animal description. It is not then proper to attempt its administration; but the moment it will admit of it, animal food, in the form of beef tea or soup, may be administered, and by degrees still stronger nourishment, both of the animal and vegetable sort. Should the disease requiring the use of generous diet be of a protracted nature, tha[ 260 J OAK NUT BURTenance must tlien consist of such articles as milk, coffee, tea, chocolate, cocoa, bread, fruit, beef, mutton, venison, the meat of young animals, fowl, fish, together with a proper mixture of vegetables. The food should rather be fre- quently administered, and a little at a time, than in a large quantity. Though malt liquor, wine, or spirit sufficiently weakened with water, must in such cases form a part of the diet, they are to be used with moderation. The objects constituting generous diet are such as tea with cream and sugar, coffee, chocolate, salep, sago, arrowroot with wine, chicken broth, beef tea, soup, water, acidulated liquids, malt liquor, wine, and spirituous com- positions. They are also such as milk, cheese, butter, farinaceous substances, vegetables, spicy plants, fruit, sugar, and condiments. The solid animal substances are such as beef, mutton, hare, venison, lamb, veal, sucking pig, and rabbit. They are, too, such as goose, duck, chicken, turkey, pigeon, grouse, pheasant, par- tridge, woodcock, snipe, lapwing, plover, thrush, lark, ortolan, and sparrow. Fish constituting generous diet are such as cod fish, whiting, haddock, skate, sole, turbot, perch, salmon, trout, barbel, bardotte, and gudgeon. Shell fish, such as lobster, crab, oyster, muscle, cockle, limpet, whelk, clam, and turtle, may also be regarded as entering into its composition. Diseases in which suitable articles of nutri- tious diet become proper are such as atrophy, dropsy, consumptive disorders, convulsive and spasmodic affections, chi'onic ulcerous diseases, low febrile complaints, profuse discharges of blood and of the customaiy evacuations, palsy, gout, and nervous disorders. The other natural powers, as temperature, air, and exercise, such as act on the organs of sense or influence the mind, should aid the curative intention. NUTS. Almonds, walnuts, hazel nuts, and nuts in general are extremely difiicult of diges- tion, on account of the oil they contain, which readily turns acrid and rancid on the stomach, and occasions the heartburn. Bilious indi- viduals should by no means eat them; and there is nothing so absurd as to administer almond milk as a common diet drink to febrile patients. This milk consists altogether of oily and almost insoluble parts, which heat and vitiate the stomach, stimulate the bile, and are easily decomposed from the water with which they are mixed. It' quickly spoils—frequently, indeed, before it is introduced into the stomach; it is not in the least degree cooling; and its nourishing quality is very improperly employed in fevers, and all those diseases which are attended with debility of the alimentary canal. Nuts and almonds ought to be eaten only while fresh, and when the skin, which is ex- tremely astringent and unwholesome, can be removed. They should be well chewed, and eaten with salt; for every piece swallowed entire is indigestible, and the salt renders them miscible with our fluids as a saponaceous mass. If eaten in large quantities they remain in the stomach, cannot be expelled by any medicine, and produce alarming and sometimes fatal dis- orders. In general they occasion difficult breathing, vomiting, and complaints in the bowels, which have been observed to be very common in those autumns that were productive of great quantities of nuts. NUTS: To Peeseeve, Put the nuts in their husks into a large earthenware pan, and when filled with nuts place it in a damp cellar, with a board to cover it. Some people strew salt among the nuts. NUTS, PRALINEES. Take 1 lb. of Spanish nuts, take them out of their shells, and put them into a pan, with 1 lb. of loaf sugar and a little water; let them boil till they begin to sparkle, then take them off the fire, and stir them well with a wooden spoon till you perceive the sugar turns gravelly; then set them again over a slow fire to dissolve the sugar, keep stir- ring, that the sugar may stick to the nuts, and when you see them turn reddish, and are well covered with sugar, take them off, pour them into a sieve, cover them with a clean cloth, and put them into a stove. This will preserve their gloss O. OAK. The various species of oak are re- markable for their powerfully astringent pi'o- perties, for the colouring matters they contain, and for their various other uses in the arts, manufactures, medicine, and domestic economy. The common oak [Quercus pedunculata) is that which is met with so plentifully in this country ; but there is also another species called red oak, chestnut oak, or durmast (Q. sessiliflora). The former is distinguished by having no footstalks to its leaves, and by its fruit being borne on long stalks ; the latter by its leaves having footstalks sometimes nearly an inch long, and by its fruit being seated close on the branch without any stalk at all. The latter is not nearly so common as the former, but there are parts of the country where it is found in considerable quantity. As these two species closely resemble each other in their properties, products, and uses, we shall not consider them apart, but regard the observations about to be made as referable to both, with this important exception —that the timber of Q. seasUiflora is infinitely[ 261 ] OAK OAT inferior to that of Q. pedunculata, being consi- derably softer and less durable. The wood of the oak is harder and more solid than that of any other European timber tree, and, as is well known, is largely employed in ship building, carpentry, wagon work, cabinet making, mill work, and coopering. The bark is of great utility, as furnishing in greatest abundance the article known as tan for tanning hides and skins ; and this property is owing to the presence of a great quantity of tannic acid. It also contains a peculiar bitter principle known by the name of quercin. After the bark has been used in the tanyard it is employed for making hotbeds in forcing-houses. Acorns, or the fruit of the oak, are highly nutritious to various animals, but particularly to hogs, which rapidly fatten on them ; and it has been ob- served that those are best for the purpose that have been washed and dried by exposure to the air. In Turkey the acorns of several sorts of oak are buried in the ground in the same way as cacao beans are, to deprive them of their bitterness; they are then dried, washed, and reduced to powder with sugar and aromatics. The substance thus formed is called palamonte, and the food that is prepared from it is called racahout, and is used in the seraglios to fatten and keep up the embonpoint of the sultanas. In some parts of Europe acorns are said to be converted into bread. By analysis they have been found to contain in 1000 parts—fixed oil, 43 ; resin, 52; gum, 64; tannin, 90; bitter extractive, 52; starch, 385, lignin, 319; and traces of potash, lime, alumina, and some earthy salts; by which it will be seen that they contain more than a third of nutritive matter, and that consequently they are capable of being taken as food,, particularly when they have been deprived of their resinous and extractive matters. In Italy the oil is extracted and applied to burn- ing in lamps, bht it does not appear that much attention has been given to this branch of industry. It is stated by Dr. Barras that he found the infusion of roasted acorns, sweetened with sugar, of great advantage in promoting digestion, if taken in the same way as coffee after meals ; and that he has seen dyspepsia, and even disordered stomach, cured by the use of them. The acorns and the cup have been found useful as an astringent in mucous diarrhoea. The acorns of Q. esculus, or Italian oak, have Bomewhat prickly cups, and are long, slender, and esculent, and may, in times of scarcity, be ground into flour and made into bread. The tree is a native of Spain, Italy, and the south of Europe, and is supposed to be the true Phagus of the Greeks, and the Esculus of Pliny. Quercus agilops is called valonia oak, because its cups and acorns furnish the article valonia, so much used in the arts for tanning and dye- ing. The tree grows abundantly in the Levant, whence the great supplies of valonia are imported. The acorns are very large and short, set in a large mossy cup ; and the two together form the valonia of commerce, which is said to contain more tan nin in a given bulk of substance than any other vegetable. Q. infectoria is a small shrub, grow ing abundantly in Asia Minor. It is on the young shoots of this shrub that the gall-nuts of commerce are produced. They are caused by a small insect, Diplolepis gallcetinctorim, the female of which punctures the young growing shoots, and therein deposits its eggs, which occasions an extravasation of the sap and a cellular swelling of the part, which continues to increase in size. The egg in course of time produces a larva, which lives upon the interior of the gall, until, being transformed into a fly, it eats its way out by a small round hole, as may be sometimes seen in galls. But to have galls in the highest perfection they should be gathered before the egg is hatched, or the fly has escaped. At this period they are of a dark colour, and are hence called blue, green, or black galls; but if allowed to remain longer they lose their dark colour, and are then called white galls. Galls are powerfully astringent, and are employed in medicine and in the arts. They form an important ingredient in the making of writing ink, and are employed as an internal remedy in chronic diarrhoea and chronic dysen- tery, and also as an astringent gargle. Eormed into an ointment they serve as a useful external application to hemorrhoidal affections. OAK FLOORS. To keep these brown, clean, and bright without washing, strew tansy, mint, balm, fennel, or other green sweet herbs on the boards well swept, and rub them all over the wood with a long hard brush till it be scrubbed clean. When the wood or boards are quite dry the herbs should be swept off, and the boards, being well dry rubbed with a dry rubbing brush, will look like mahogany, and have an agreeable smell. Greasy spots may be taken out by laying a little ox-gall on at night, and washing them well next morning with a little brush and clean flannel, with some strong lye ; but if the spots be slight a little clay or fuller's earth will do; or, if they be dirt or marks of feet, dry rubbing will remove them, and after these operations the boards will keep a long time bright and brown with only using a little hard brush. OAT CAKES, ENGLISH. Sift a quarter of a peck of fine oatmeal; then take about a pint of warm water, half a glass of mild ale yeast, and ^ oz. of salt; stir these together for about ten minutes ; strain the whole into the oatmeal, mix the dough high and light as for muffins,OAT OCT [ 262 ] and let it remain an hour to rise. After this roll it up with the hand, and pull it into pieces about the size of an egg; roll these out with a rolling-pin on plenty of flour ; cover them with flannel, and they will soon be of a proper thick- ness. Bake them on an iron plate. Toast them crisply on both sides, but without burning them ; then pull them open, lay in some butter, and put the two parts together again. OAT CAKES, SCOTCH. Make a paste of oatmeal and water seasoned with salt, and of sufficient consistence to admit of its being rolled out to the thinness of a school slate. Cut the cake into four equal parts crosswise, and bake on a girdle or stone slab over a fire. When done they are slightly browned before the fire. OATMEAL FLUMMERY (1). To three pints of water put one pint of bruised groats; let it stand two or three hours, then pour off the water, and put as much fresh water on as before, stirring it well. Let it stand four hours, then strain it through a hair sieve or cloth ; boil it, and keep stirring it all the while; put into it a little water now and then as it boils. When boiling drop a little on a plate, and if it does not stick to the plate it is done enough. OATMEAL FLUMMERY (2). Put ] J lb. of very fine white oatmeal to steep a day and a night in cold water; then pour it off clear, adding as much more water, and let it stand the same time , then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it is about as thick as hasty pudding, stirring it all the time. When first strained put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water; pour it on dishes, and serve to eat with new milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good with cold butter and molasses. OATMEAL GRUEL. See Gruel. OATMEAL PORRIDGE. Set some water on the fire in a saucepan, and when it boils season it with salt; then stir in oatmeal, taking care that it is sprinkled in so gradually through the fingers that it does not become lumpy. When of the consistence of hasty pudding let it boil from twenty minutes to half an hour, and then tarn it out on plates or in basins. It is generally eaten with milk, treacle, butter, sugar, or beer, and is very nutritious and whole- some food. OATMEAL PUDDING. Pour a quart of boihng milk over a pint of the very best fine oatmeal, and let it soak all night. The next day beat two eggs, and mix in a little salt; put it in a basin just large enough to hold it; cover it tightly with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it cold with butter and salt. The remainder may be sliced, toasted, and eat as oat cake buttered. OATMEAL PUDDING (Boiled or Baked UNDER Meat). Steep 1 lb. of nice oatmeal overnight in a quait of cream or milk; season it with sugar, a few beaten almonds, a little orange-flower water, rind of lemon, and a small bit of butter. Currants and raisins may be added, but they are not necessary. Boil it till smooth and thick. When nearly cold add six eggs; bake it with or without a paste border, and strew sugar over it, or boil and serve it with sweet sauce. If it is made without fruit a few currants may be put in the sauce. OATMEAL PUDDING (New Englakd Way). Steep a pint of coarse oatmeal in a quart of boiling milk overnight; in the morning shred ^ lb. of beef suet veiy finely, and mix with the oatmeal and milk some grated nutmeg and a little salt, with the yolks and whites of three eggs, \ lb. of currants, \ lb. of raisins, and a sufficient quantity of sugar to sweeten it. Stir the whole well together, tie it pretty closely, and boil it for two hours. Serve with melted butter for sauce. OCHRE. There are several native mixtures of argillaceous and calcareous earth and oxide of iron employed as paints and colours, under the generic name of ochre, and which are dis- tinguished from each other by differences in their colour or in their places of origin. The difference of colour depends partly on the state of oxidation of the iron, and partly on the pro- portion of oxide of iron present. The colour is sometimes modified by the application of heat. Ochres are generally prepared for use by the process of grinding and washing, in the same way as chalk. The different varieties are dis- tinguished as brown ochre, red ochre, yellow ochre; French ochre, which is yellow; Oxford ochre and Roman ochre, which are of a brownish yellow colour. Indian red and Spanish brown may also be classed among the ochres. October. Articles in season this month:— Fish. Salmon trout, dory, halibut, turbot, smelts, brills, gudgeon, pike, carp, tench, perch, lobsters, cockles, muscles, and oysters. Fruit. Apples, pears, peaches, grapes, figs, medlars, services, quinces, black and white buUace, walnuts, filberts, and hazel nuts. Meat. Beef, mutton, lamb, veal, pork, and doe venison. Poultry and Game. Geese, turkeys, pigeons, fowls, chickens, wild ducks, teal, widgeons, woodcocks, snipes, larks, dotterels, pheasants, partridges, hares, and rabbits. Vegetables. Cabbages, sprouts, cauliflowers, artichokes, carrots, parsnips, turnips, potatoes, skirrets, salsafy, scorzonera, leeks, shallots, garlic, rocambole, celery, endive, cardoons, chervil, chard-beet, corn salad, lettuce, young salad, thyme, savory, and all sorts of pot herbs.[ 263 ] OIL OIL OIL. The principal fixed vegetable oils obtained by pressure are the following :— Apricot Oil. Agreeable to the taste. Used for that of almonds. Argan Oil. From the seeds of FJiamnus sicitlus. Sold for olive oil. Beeciimast Oil. Very clear, keeps -well, and is a very good salad oil. It is used in Silesia . in lieu of butter. Buckwheat Oil. From tlie seeds of buck- wheat, or Fagopyrum. Camellia Oil. From the seeds of Camellia oleifera. Used for the table. Castor Oil. Commonly distinguished into the foreign oil imported either from the West Indies, whei'e it is obtained by decoction in water (10 lbs. of seeds yield 1 lb. of oil), or from the East Indies, where it is obtained by grinding in a mortar, with a hole in the side for the super- natant oil to run off, being in common use there for lamp oil; and that made at home by the press, which is the best, especially some that is prepared from cold-blanched seeds, with the eye taken out. Some chemists are said to take out the colour from the foreign oils by certain additions, and sell them for English, or, as it is called, cold-drawn castor oil. The acridity communicated to the oil by the eyes of the seeds may be got rid of by washing the oil in boiling water, or with weak spirit of vitriol; but it is seldom done in this country. It is soluble in warm spirit of wine, and its adulteration may thus be discovered if thought necessary ; but, as all the fat oils have nearly the same qualities, the taste is sufficient for practical purposes. Purgative in doses of ^oz. to l^oz., floated on some distilled water or some wine; or, if it does not usually stay well on the stomach, on some tincture of senna; or made into an emulsion with yolk of egg and a little distilled water, with 20 drops of tincture of lavender, and a spoonful of simple syrup. It may also be used in clysters. It is particularly useful where a stimulant would be hurtful, as it operates quickly without disturbing the system: ex- ternally in swelling pains. Contrary to most medicines, on frequent repetition a less dose is sufficient. CocoA-NtiT Oil. Obtained from the kernel of the Cocos nuci/era. It is solid, and good for candles. CoLD-DKAWN Ltnseed Oil. Viscous, bitter, and makes but a soft soap. Used in lamps, but chiefly in painting, and is very drying. It dis- solves one-fourth of its weight of litharge, and forms with it a kind of transparent varnish. Cornel Oil. From the seeds of Cornus mascula and sanrjinnea. Answers for lamps, but not for the table. GiNGELLY Oil. From the seeds of the Sesamum orientale. Used for food and in painting. GiNGKO Oil. From the seeds of Ginyko biloba. Used for the table. Ground Pea Oil. From the Arachts hjjpo- gcea. Eatable, but has a strong tnsie ; keeps and burns well, and makes good soap. Hemp Oir,. From hemp seed. Good for frying in. Used by the painters as a drying oil. Hemp Nettle Oil. From the seeds of Galeopsis tetrahit. Yielded very plentifully. Mustard Oil. From the hulls of black mustard after the flour has been sifted from them. It resembles rape oil, and is sold for it. Nettle-tree Oil. From the seeds of Celtis australis. Excellent for the lamp. Nut Oil. From the kernel of the hazel nut. Very fine substitute for oil of ben. As it will keep better than that of almonds, it has been proposed to be substituted for that oil in the College lists, being nearly equal to it. It is drunk with tea in China, probably in lieu of cream. Used by painters as a superior vehicle for their colours. Oil of Ben. From the nuts of the Ouilandina moringa. Scentless, colourless. Keeps long with- out growing rank. Used in perfumery, to re- ceive and retain the odour of those vegetables that yield but little essential oil, and thus forms the basis of the best sort of huiles antiques. Oil of Common Physic Nut. Used as castor oil for a purge. Oil of Mace in Jars. Obtained from nut- megs by the press. Buttery, having the smell and colour of mace, but grows paler and harder by age. Two pounds of nutmegs in Europe yielded 6 ozs. of this oil. Olive Oil. Salad oil—Sweet oil. The most agreeable of the oils. It is demulcent, emollient, gently laxative, and is also used as an emetic with warm water. Dose, 1 oz., or one large spoonful. Externally, when warm, to the bites of serpents, and cold to tumours and dropsies. Rank oil is best for plasters; but fresh oil makes the best hard soap. Oil of Poppy Seeds. Pojipy oil. Used as a salad oil. It is not narcotic, as has been supposed. It keeps well, is drying, does not burn well, and smokes very much. It makes a soft soap, but is very good in plasters. Oil of Sesamum. From the seeds of gold of pleasure, Myagrum sativum. Used for burn- ing in lamps and in ointments, &c. Oil of Stone Pine Kernels grows rank very soon. Sixteen pounds of kernels yield 5 lbs. of oil. Oil of Sweet Almonds. It is usually made from bitter almonds for cheapness, or from oldOIL OIN [ 264 1 Jordan almonds by heat, the oil from which soon grows rank, while that from fresh Barbary ahnonds, drawn cold, ■will keep good for some time. The almonds are sometimes blanched by dipping in boiling water, or by soaking some hours in cold water, so as to part with their skin easily ; but they are more usually ground to a paste, which is put into canvas bags, and pressed between iron plates in a screw press, or by means of a wedge. One hundred weight of bitter almonds, unblanched, produces 46 lbs. of oil. The cake pays for pressing. Oil of Vernicia Montana. Yellow. It is used as a varnish, and is extracted from the kernels. Rape Oil is made from rape seed. Dries slowly, and makes but a softish soap. It is fit for ointments, but does not make good plasters. The mucilage it contains may be got rid of, in a great measure, by adding J oz. of oil of vitriol to two pints of the oil. Colza oil is only a pure kind of rape oil. Rape is called on the continent colza or colzat. Sunflower-seed Oil. From the seeds of Helianthus annuus. They yield well, and are recommended for cultivation. Perhaps the Jerusalem artichoke would answer better, as both the root and seed would be saleable. True Oil of Mace by Expression. Red, remains always liquid and soft, has a strong smell of mace, and subacid taste. Imported in jars or bottles, the lower pai-t being rather thicker than the top. In Europe 1^ lb. of mace yielded H drachm of oil. Walnut Oil. Makes good plasters, but will not keep. Used by painters, and is very diy- ing. Walnuts yield about half their weight of oil. The chief of the volatile vegetable oils ob- tained by distillation are oil of anise, cinnamon, clove, lemon, mace, neroli or orange flower, peppermint, rose, rosemary, and spike. When of sufficient importance all the oils will be found mentioned under their specific names. For the illuminating power of various oils see Lamps. OIL-CLOTH should never be touched with soap. When dirty wash it with warm water only, and polish it with a hard brush. OIL OF JUPITER. Take three quarts of spirit of wine, flavoured with essential oil of lemon, and the same quantity flavoured with spirit of cedrat; make a syrup with 7 lbs. of sugar, a gallon of water, and two bottles of Scubac ; mix the whole together, and by stirring it will become thick. To clarify it mix the whites of two eggs in about a pint of the liqueur, and afterwards put it to the whole ; stir it, and then put it into a still in the bain-marie, moderately heated; let it remain for twelve hours; filter the produce of your distillation, and then bottle it. OIL SPOTS. Grease Spots. OIL TOAST. Toast some slices of bread, and while hot baste them with oil and lemon juice; pepper and salt them, and serve very hot. OIL OF VENUS. Reduce the following articles to an impalpable powder:—1 oz. of skirret seeds, 1 oz. of caraway seeds, 1 oz. of anise seeds, 1^ drachm of mace, and the rind of an orange; infuse these for five days in a gallon of brandy, and then distil in a bain marie from it two quarts of liqueur. Dissolve over the fire 4 lbs. of sugar in two quarts of pure water; when cold mix it with the distilled liqueur, and colour it of a clear yellow with a little tincture of saffron; filter and bottle it, and seal the corks. OINTMENTS. {See Cerates.) Notwith- standing the extravagant encomiums which have been bestowed on diff"erent preparations of this kind, with regard to their efficacy in the cure of wounds, sores, &c., it is beyond a doubt that the most proper application to a green wound is dry lint. But though oint- rdents do not heal wounds and sores, yet they serve to defend them from the external air, and to retain such substances as may be necessary for drying, deterging, destroying proud flesh, and such-like. For these purposes, how- ever, it will be sufficient to insert only a few of the most simple forms, as ingredients of a more active natm-e can occasionally be added to them. Emollient Ointment. Take of palm oil 2 lbs.; olive oil, 1^ pint; yellow wax, ^ lb. ; Venice turpentine, \ lb. Melt the wax in the oils over a gentle fire; then mix in the turpentine, and strain the ointment. This supplies the place of allhcea ointment. It may be used for anointing inflamed parts, &c. Eye Ointment. Take of hog's lard prepared 4 ozs.; white wax, 2 drachms; tutty prepared, 1 oz. Melt the wax with the lard over a gentle fire, and then sprinkle in the tutty, con- tinually stirring them till the ointment is cold. This preparation will be more efficacious, and of a better consistence, if 2 or 3 drachms of camphor be rubbed up with a little oil, and inti- mately mixed with it. Or, take camphor and calamine stone levigated, of each 6 drachms ; ver- digris well prepared, 2 drachms ; hog's lard and mutton suet prepared, of each 2 ozs. Rub the camphor well with the powder ; afterwards mix in the lard and suet, continuing the triture till they be perfectly united. This ointment has been long in esteem for diseases of the eyes. It ought, however, to be used with caution when the eyes are much inflamed or verv tender.OLI [ 265 ] OLI Issue Ointment. Mix -J- oz. of Spanish flies, finely powdered, in 6 ozs. of j^ellow basili- con ointment. This ointment is chiefly in- tended for dressing blisters, in order to keep them open during pleasure. Mercurial Ointment. Take of quicksilver 2 ozs.; hog's lard, 3 ozs.; mutton suet, 1 oz. Rub the quicksilver with 1 oz. of the hog's lard m a warm mortar till the globules be perfectly extinguished; then rub it up with the rest of the lard and suet, previously melted together. The principal intention of this ointment is to convey mercury into the body by being rubbed upon the skin. Ointment for Diseases of the Skin. Take of the ointment commonly called unguentum citrinum li drachm; flowers of sulphur and powder of hellebore, of each 1 oz.; hog's lard, 3 ozs. ; essence of lemon or oil of thyme, from 20 to 30 drops, to correct the offensiveness of the smell. Make them into an ointment. We have not only known many ordinary affections of the skin cured by this ointment, but even some of a very malignant nature, and approach- ing to lepi'osy. Ointment of Lead. Take of olive oil ^ pint; white wax, 2 ozs.; sugar of lead, 3 drachms. Let the sugar of lead, reduced into a fine powder, be rubbed up with some part of the oil, and afterwards added to the other ingre- dients, previously melted together, continually stirring them till quite cold. This cooling and gently astringent ointment may be used in all cases where the intention is to dry and skin over the part, as in scalding, &c. Ointment of Sulphur. Take of hog's lard prepared 4 ozs.; flowers of sulphur, 1^ oz.; crude sal ammoniac, 2 drachms ; essence of lemon, 10 or 12 drops. Make them into an ointment. This ointment, rubbed upon the parts affected, will generally cure the itch. It is both the safest and best application for that purpose, and, when made in this way, has no disagreeable smell. White or Spermaceti Ointment. Take of olive oil 1 pint; white wax and spermaceti, of each 3 ozs. Melt them with a gentle heat, and keep constantly and briskly stirring them together till quite cold. If 2 drachms of camphor, previously rubbed with a small quan- tity of oil, he added to the above, it will make the white camphorated ointment. OLIBANUM. It is now a pretty well- ascertained fact that the resin called olibanum, which is the frankincense used by the Jews and other ancient churches in their religious cere- monies, is the produce of Boswellia serrata and B. papyri/era, and not, as Linnaeus supposed, of Juniperus Lycia. The first of these is a native of Amboyna and several of the moun- tainous parts of India, growing to the height of forty feet, and yielding what is called Indian olibanum. The second is found on the east coast of Africa, in Abyssinia, growing at an elevation of one thousand feet, on the bare limestone rocks, to which the roots attach themselves by a thick mass of vegetable substance, thrown out from the base of the stem, which sends roots into the crevices of the rock to an immense depth. Its bark consists of four layers, the two middle ones being of a fine texture, transparent like oiled paper, and employed by the Soumalis to write upon. It is this tree which produce" the African olibanum. Indian olibanum is ir the form of yellowish, somewhat translucent, roundish tears, larger than those of the African, and generally covered with a whitish powder, produced by friction. It has a balsamic, resinous smell, and an acrid, bitterish, somewhat aromatic taste. When chewed it softens in the mouth, adheres to the teeth, and partially dissolves in the saliva, which it renders milky ; and it burns with a brilliant flame and a fragrant odour. Arabian or African olibanum is in the form of yellowish tears, and irregular reddish lumps or fragments. The tears are generally small, oblong, or roundish, not very brittle, with a dull and heavy fracture, softening in the mouth, and bearing much resemblance to mastich, from which, however, they difl'er in their want of transpai'ency. The reddish masses soften in the hand, have a stronger taste and smell than the tears, and are often mixed with fragments of hark and small crystals of carbonate of lime. Alcohol dissolves nearly three-fourths of oli banum, and the tincture is transparent. It is chiefly employed for fumigations, and enters into the composition of some popular plasters; it is also considered stimulant, like the other resins. A coarse resin is obtained from Bos- wellia glabra, which is used, boiled with oil, for pitching the bottoms of ships. OLIO, FRENCH. Take 5 lbs. of steaks cut very thick from the leg-of-mutton piece of beef; put them into a deep stewpan, add 5 lbs. of any part of veal, and a leg of mutton of about 6 lbs. or 7 lbs., which must be skinned, and have the fat taken off'; cover the stewpan closely, and set it over the stove with a very moderate fire; let it stand till the gravy begins to run; stir up the fire, and continue stewing till the meat begins to stick to the pan, but not longer, as it should not be too brown. Pour a little beef gravy into it, and stir it about. When thoroughly mixed put it into a pot, set it upon the fire, very closely covered, with a sufficient quantity of gravy to fill the pot. Then take twelve carrots, nine parsnips, eight onions, and six turnips ; put these into the pot, with a bunch of leeks, a bundle of celery, and a handful of mignonette; let theseOLI [ 266 ] OLI boll well together, and then put in a fowl, a turkey, and a couple of pigeons; add 2 lbs. of ham cut in thick slices, keep it boiling, and as the scum rises skim it off very clean. While these ai'e doing take four French rolls rasped, pare off the crusts, and put them into a stew- pau, with a little of the olio liquor. When they are soft put them into a tureen or very deep soup dish, and pour in the liquor ; let there be some celery and some of the other roots added, with some of the best pieces of the meat, and the pigeons put in whole. This is the way to make the plain French olio; but they often put partridges to stew in the gravy, sometimes half roasting them before they put them in. OLIO, MATGRE. Scald all sorts of roots, such as onions, carrots, parsnips, parsley roots, tui'nips, celery, and leeks ; then boil them in some pease broth, with a mignonette and some carp trimmings. When the above vegetables are sufficiently done put in a little root gravy, strain, and set it by for any purpose which you may require. OLIO, SPANISH. Take some gristles from a breast of veal, also from a brisket of beef, and from a br'east of mutton, and some sheeps' rumps cut in pieces : they must all be about the size of a finger. Take also 5 lbs. of beef steaks, and put them into a stewpan, with a quan- tity of beef stock, a bunch of leeks, and a large bunch of celery picked very clean. They must be stewed till the rumps and gristles are tender ; then put in a couple of pigeons, a brace of partridges, two pairs of hogs' feet and ears, the knuckle end of a ham, half a fine white cabbage, some pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet basil, two onions, and some cloves. Cover these over with some thick beef steaks, and over them lay some veal steaks; pour a little fresh stock upon them, and leave them to stew over a gentle fire; let the whole stew till the liquor is evaporated, and the ingredients begin to stick at the bottom ; then put in more stock. While these are stewing set on to boil in some gi'avy some large peas that have been pre- viously soaked in water for twenty-four hours. The Spaniards make use of a kind of peas called garavances: they are large, and not unlike our grey peas ; but if these are not to be had, any large peas will do. These must be •foiled till very tender, and be ready at the same time as the olio. As the stock boils away put in more, which must boil for a quarter of an hour. Season the'olio according to taste with pepper and salt; have ready a large soup dish, take out the ingredients one by one, and lay them in the dish: the gristle and the roots must be dispersed about among the other things. Pour over them the peas and their gravy, and then put in a proper quantity of other gravy. It must not be eaten as a soup, but as an olio— the ingredients in preference to the liquor. Those who prefer the soup may have it in a basin with toasted bread. OLIVE. This tree is the Olea Europtea of botanists. There ai'e several varieties of the cultivated olive. The long-leaved is that which is generally grown in the south of France and Italy, and the broad-leaved is mostly grown in Spain. From the former the finest oil is obtained ; and the latter, which is nearly double the size of the other, produces an oil of a strong, rank flavour, not at all appreciated in this country, though eaten with great relish in Spain. The oil is obtained by pressure. In November, when the fruit is fully ripe, it begins to redden, and when gathered is carried to a mill and bruised, the stones being set at such a distance that they do not crush the nut of the olives. The flesh covering the nut, and con- taining the oil in its cells, being thus prepared, is put into bags made of rushes, and moderately pressed; and thus is obtained, in considerable quantity, a greenish, semi-transparent oil, which, from its superior excellence, is called virgin oil. Tlie pulp, after the first pressure, is moistened with water, and again pressed ; and this oil, though inferior to the first, is of good quality and fit for table. The pulp is again broken to pieces, soaked in water, and left to ferment in large cisterns, and is again pressed ; but the oil from this pressure is of a very common description, and is generally used for making soap, and for other manufacturing purposes. Olive oil may he said to form the butter and cream of Spain and Italy. It is very nutritious, and is extensively used as an article of food ; and there can be no doubt that it is more wholesome in warm climates, and more congenial to the human constitution, than butter. According to Braconnot the oil con- tains seventy-two parts of olein, and twenty- eight of margarin. It is solidified by nitrous acid and by nitrate of mercury, and converted into a peculiar fatty substance, which has re- ceived the name of eldidin. Taken medicinally it is a mild laxative, and subdues irritation of the intestines. It has also been recommended as a remedy for worms. Applied externally it serves to relax the skin. The fruit is prepared as a pickle by repeatedly steeping it in water, to which quicklime, or any alkaline substance, is sometimes added, to shorten the opera- tion. The olives are afterwards soaked in pure water, and then taken out and boiled in salt and water, with or without an aromatic. They are supposed to excite appetite and promote digestion. The taste of this fruit is an acquired one, and, like many other matters, isOME [ 267 ] OLI not worth the acquisition. Few persons relish Wives, for their crude juice and heavj' oil render them difficult of digestion, while they contain little or no nourishment. The best mode of using the olives imported is to chew the fruit, and then reject the pulp: by this means the relish is obtained, without loading the stomach with the woody, indigestible fibre. The Italian olive is to be preferred to the French, being superior in quality and easier of digestion. The leaves and bark have an acrid and bitter taste, and have been employed as substitutes for Peruvian bark, but with little success. In some countries a kind of gum resin exudes from the bark, which, on analysis, was found to contain a peculifir principle analogous to gum, which has received the name of olivile. OLIVE OIL. As an article of food olive oil is preferable to animal fat; but it ought always to be mild, fi-esh, and of a sweet taste. It. should not, however, be eaten by persons of weak stomachs, for even in its mildest state it produces rancidity and acrimony, which are extremely injurious to digestion. Olive oil is chiefly used in salads, and should always be consumed together with a large portion of bread, or with the addition of sugar, on account of its richness, as otherwise it requires a powerful and active bile to assimilate it to alimentary matter. Medicinally considered, olive oil, it is said, has been found an excellent preventive of the plague, when rubbed over the whole body imme- diately after the contagion is supposed to have taken place. It is also beneficially employed internally for recent colds, coughs, hoarseness, &c., whether mixed with water into an emulsion by means of alkalies, or with conserves or syrups into a linctus. Lastly, considerable quantities are used in the preparation of plasters, oint- ments, &c., for external applications. OLIVE ROYALS. Boil 1 lb. of potatoes, and when nearly cold rub them perfectly smooth with 4 ozs. of flour and 1 oz. of butter, and knead them together till they become a paste ; roll it out about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into rounds, and lay upon one side any sort of cold roasted meat cut into thin small pieces, and seasoned with pepper and salt; put a very small piece of butter over it, wet the edges, and close the paste in the form of a half-circle. Fry them in boiling fresh dripping of a light brown colour, lay them before the fire on the back of a sieve to drain, and serve them with or without gravy in the dish. For a change mince the meat, and season it as before directed. The potatoes should be very mealy. OLIVER RILEY. Take four gi-een orange- peels, I lb. of raisins, one spoonful of cloves, two nutmegs, one table-spoonful of anise, two table-spoonsful of bitter almonds, one quart of rum, and sweeten to taste. OLIVES, RAGOtiT OF. Take some very green olives, and cut out the stones so that the fruit may close its original form ; put them ono by one into water, blanch, and then put them into a good cullis well seasoned. OMELET (1). Five or six eggs will make a good-sized omelet. Break them into a basin, beat them well with a fork, and add a salt-spoon- ful of salt. Have ready chopped 2 drachms of onion or 3 drachms of parsley, and a good clove of shallot minced finely; beat these well up with the eggs; then take 4 ozs. of fresh butter, break half of it into large pieces, and put them into the omelet, and the other half into a very clean fiying-pan. When it is melted pour in the omelet, and stir it with a spoon till it begins to set; then turn it up all round the edges, and when it is of a nice brown it is done. The safest way to take it out is to put a plate on the omelet, and turn the pan upside down. Serve it on a hot dish, but it should never be done till just wanted. Grated cheese, shrimps, or oysters may be added: boil them four minutes. Of oysters take away the beard and gristly part. They may either be put in whole or cut in pieces. OMELET (2). Beat well and strain six eggs, add them to 3 ozs. of butter made hot, and mix in some grated ham, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, some chopped chives, and parsley. Fry the omelet of a light brown colour. OMELET (3). Take as many eggs as you think proper (according to the size of your omelet), and break them into a basin, with some salt and chopped parsley ; then beat them well, and season them according to taste. Have ready some onion chopped small, put some butter into a frying-pan, and when it is hot (but not to burn) put in your chopped onion, giving it two or three turns ; then add your eggs to it, and fry the whole of a nice brown. You must only fry one side. When done turn it into a dish, the fried side uppermost, and sei've. OMELET WITH ASPARAGUS. Boil half a hundred of asparagus the usual way, cut the green ends small as far as they are tender, and mix them with ten well-beaten eggs. Make some clarified butter hot in the frying-pan, and put in the omelet; spiinkle it over with a little pepper and salt, and fry it a nice brown. It should be an inch thick, and should be served up immediately. Vinegar and butter for sauce. OMELET, CREAM. Boil a pint of cream, put into it the crumb of a French roll, parsley, shallots (both shred small), a little pepper and salt, and stir it over the fire tillOME OME [ 268 ] quite thick; then add half a dozen eggs, and fry the omelet; but observe that it will require rather more time than usual. OMELET (The Dauphine's). Having made one or two thin omelets without any seasoning, lay them on a dish, and spread over them some pistachio cream, and cherry and apricot mar- malade ; roll them up, and cut them into small pieces, each of which inclose in almond paste; strew powder sugar over them, and glaze with a salamander. OMELET, FARMER'S. Break the number of eggs you think necessary for the size of the omelet, beat them up with chopped parsley, shallots, sorrel, pepper, and salt, and fry as usual. When done put a piece of fried bread on it, roll the omelet round, and serve it. OMELET FRITTERS. Make two or three thin omelets, adding a little sweet basil to the usual ingredients ; cut them into small pieces, and roll them in the form of olives. When cold dip them into batter, or inclose them in puff paste. Fry, and serve them with fried parsley. OMELET GLACfi. Whip up some fresh eggs with a small quantity of salt, a little candied lemon-peel, and pounded macaroons ; beat them together well, and then fry as usual; sprinkle the omelet with sugar, and serve. OMELET, ITALIAN. Break your eggs as usual, add salt, pepper, shred parsley, cream, and olive oil. Beat these ingredients well, and make three or four omelets of them—thin, but not too dry. Cut some anchovies into thin slips, which lay on each of the omelets, placing the latter one on the other; cement them together, and when cold, having beaten up two eggs, dip in the omelets; bread and fry them to a nice colour. OMELET WITH KIDNEY OF VEAL. To eight well-beaten eggs add a little salt, and part of a cold roasted kidney of veal finely minced; season with pepper and a little more salt; melt in a frying-pan 1^ oz. of butter, and pour in the omelet; fry it gently, and keep the middle part moist. When done roll it equally on a knife, and serve it very hot. OMELET AU NATUREL. Break eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of cold water, and beat them up with a whisk. In the meantime put some fresh butter into a frying-pan, and when it is quite melted and nearly boiling put in the eggs, &c., with a skimmer. As the omelet is frying take up the edges, that they may be properly done. When cooked double it, and serve very hot. OMELET, OYSTER. Beard and parboil twelve or sixteen oysters, seasoning them with a few peppercorns; strain and chop them. Beat well sLx eggs, parboil and mince a little parsley, mix the whole together, and season with' a little nutmeg, salt, and a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. Fry it lightly in 3 ozs. of butter, and hold it for a minute or two before the fire. OMELET, POTATO. Beat six eggs, leaving out two whites, and have ready two table- spoonsful of potato, boiled and mashed very finely , put it to the eggs, with a table-spoonful of fine bread crumbs, a little salt, pepper, and about 1^ oz. of butter broken into small pieces. Melt a little butter into a clean frying-pan, pour in the batter, and fry it a nice light brown ; or it may be baked in a flat dish in a quick oven. Serve it with gravy in a boat. OMELET SANDWICHES. Make a light hatter by beating up four eggs with two table- spoonsful of water, and adding some bread crumbs; season with pepper and salt, and fry it in small fritters about the size of a crown piece. When they are cold put them between bread and butter with mustard. OMELET SOUFFLE. Break six eggs, and separate the whites from the yolks. To the latter put four dessert-spoonsful of powder sugar, and the rind of a lemon chopped ex- ceedingly small; mix them well, whip the whites as if for biscuits, and add them to the rest. Put i lb. of butter into a frying-pan over a brisk fire, and as soon as it is completely melted pour in the above ; stir it up, that the butter may be thoroughly incorporated with the omelet, and when that is the case strain it into a buttered dish, which place on hot ashes; strew powder sugar over, and colour the top carefully with a salamander. OMELET SOUFFLE IN A MOULD. Break six fine eggs, separate the whites and yolks, and put to the latter three spoonsful of powder sugar, four crushed macaroons, a spoon- ful of potato flour, and a little crisped orange flower in powder ; stir them together well, whip the whites to a froth, mix them with the yolks, and pour the whole into a buttered mould, but do not fill it. Set it in a moderate oven the same as for biscuits. When done turn it out on a dish and serve it. This omelet should be of a clear colour, and shake like a jelly. OMELET, SWEET To a gill of cream or good milk put four well-beaten eggs, sugar, nut- meg or cinnamon, and a small pinch of salt. Fry the omelet a nice light brown on a slow fire, and sift fine sugar over. OMELET WITH SWEETMEATS. Make an omelet with nine eggs. When quite done spread over it any kind of sweetmeats you may think proper; roll it up in the form of a muff, and strew powder sugar over it; make a skewer quite hot, run it through, and fry it.ONI I 269 ] OME OMELET, VEGETABLE. Make a rich ragout of all sorts of vegetables which may be in season, half of which put to a dozen eggs beat them together, and fry your omelet as usual. When done pour the remainder of the ragout over, and serve. OMELETS, AND VARIOUS WAYS OF DRESSING EGGS. There is no dish which may be considered as coming under the denomi- nation of a made dish of the second order which is so generally eaten, if good, as an omelet, and no one is so often badly dressed. It is a very faithful assistant in the construction of a dinner. When you are taken by surprise, and wish to make an appearance beyond what is provided for the every-day dinner, a little portable soup melted down, with some zest and a few vege- tables, will make a good broth. A pot of stewed veal warmed up, an omelet, and some apple or lemon fritters, can all be got ready at ten minutes' notice, and, with the original foundation of a leg of mutton or a piece of beef, will make up a very good dinner when company un- expectedly ariives in tlie country. The great merit of an omelet is that it should not be burned, greasy, or too much done. If too much of the white of the eggs is left in, no art can prevent its being hard if it is done. To dress the omelet the fire ought not to be too hot, as it is an object to have the substance heated without much browning the outside. One of the great errors in cooking an omelet is that it is too thin ; consequently, instead of feel- ing full and moist in the mouth, the substance is sometimes little better than a piece of fi'ied leather. To get the omelet thick is one of the great objects. With regard to the flavours to be introduced, these are inlitiite. That which is most common, however, is the best, viz., finely chopped parsley, chives, and onions, or shallots. However, one made of a mixture of tarragon, chervil, and parsley is a very delicate variety, omitting or adding the onions or chives. Of the meat flavours the veal kidney is the most delicate, and is the most admired by the French. This should be cut into dice, and should be boiled before it is added. In the same manner ham and anchovies shred small, or tongue, will make a very delicately flavoured dish. The objection to an omelet is that it is too rich, which makes it advisable to eat but a small quantity. An addition of finely mashed potatoes, about two table-spoonsful to an omelet of six eggs, will much lighten it. Omelets are often served with rich gravy; but, as a general principle, no substance which has been fried should be served in gravy, but accompanied by it, or what ought to eat dry and crisp becomes eodden and flat. In compounding the gravy great care should be taken that the flavour does not overcome that of the omelet—a thing too little attended to. A fine gravy, with a flavouring of sweet herbs and onions, we think the best. Some add a few drops of tarragon vinegar; but this is to be done only with great care. Gravies to omelets are, in general, thickened. This should never be done with flour. Potato starch or arrowroot is the best. Omelets should be fried in a small frying- pan made for that purpose, with a little butter. The omelet's great merit is to be thick, so as not to taste of the outside ; therefore use only half the number of whites that you do of yolks of eggs. Every care must be taken in frying, even at the risk of not having it quite set in the middle. An omelet, which has so much vogue abroad, is here, in general, like a thin, doubled-up piece of leather, and harder than soft leather sometimes. The fact is, as much care ought to be bestowed in the frying as should be taken in poaching an egg. A salamander is necessary to those who would have the top brown ; but the kitchen shovel may be sub- stituted for it. The receipt No. 1 is the basis of all omelets, of which an endless variety may be made by taking, instead of the parsley or shallots, a portion of sweet herbs, or any of the articles used for making forcemeats, or any of the forcemeats. Omelets are called by the name of what is added to flavour them—a ham or tongue omelet, an anchovy or veal-kidney omelet, &c. These are prepared exactly in the same way as in the first receipt, leaving out the parsley and shallots, mincing the ham or kidney very finely, &c., and adding that in the place of them, and then pouring over them all sorts of thickened gravies, sauces, &c. ONION CULLIS. Put some sliced onions into a pan with a little butter, set it on a brisk fire, and when brown add two spoonsful of flour; keep it stirring, put to it some broth, a glass of white wine, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil; let it boil for an hour, skim and rub it through a sieve, and season according to your taste. ONION OMELET. Cut some very white onions into slices, and give them a few turns over the fire. When nearly done moisten them with cream, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Mix them with half a dozen eggs ; beat the whole up well, and fry the omelet either in oil or butter. ONION SAUCE (1). Peel some onions, boil them in milk and water, and put a turnip with them into the pot; change the water twice, and pulp them through a cullender, or chop them; then put them into a saucepan.ONI [ 270 ] OPA with some cream, a piece of butter, a little flour, some pepper, and salt. The sauce must be served very smooth. ONION SAUCE (-2). The onions must be peeled and boiled till they are tender; then squeeze the water from them, chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted, rich and smooth, with a little good milk instead of water; give the whole one boil, and serve it with boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions draws out their sti'ength. ONION SAUCE, BROWN. Peel and slice the onions (some put in an equal quantity of cucumber or celery) into a quart stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter; set it over a slow fire, and turn the onion about till it is very lightly browned; then gradually stir in | oz. of flour; add a little broth and a little pepper and salt, and boil up for a few minutes ; add a table-spoonful of claret or port wine, and some mushroom catsup (you may add, if you think proper, a little lemon juice and vinegar), and rub it through a tammy or fine sieve. ONION SOUP. Put into the water in which a leg or neck of mutton has been boiled some carrots, turnips, and a shank-bone, and let them simmer for a couple of hours. Strain the liquor on half a dozen onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown ; simmer the whole for three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put in a little roll or fried bread. ONIONS : To Boil. After they are peeled boil them in milk and water: if small, they will cook in half an hour. When they are done pour off the water, put in cream, butter, and salt, and let them stew a few minutes. Small onions are much better for cooking, as they are not so strong. ONIONS: To Keep. Onions should be pulled up as soon as the tops are nearly dead. They are then to be dried in the sun, and kept in an airy place. If they begin to sprout, sear the roots with a hot iron, which will check vegetation. ONIONS : To Pickle (I). The small, round, silver-skinned onions, about as big as a nutmeg, make a nice pickle. Take off their top coats, and have ready a stewpan three parts filled with boiling water, into which put as many onions as will cover the top. As soon as they look clear take them up with a spoon full of holes, lay them on a cloth three times folded, and cover them with another till you have ready as many as you wish. When they are quite dry put them into jars, and cover them with hot pickle, made by infusing 1 oz. of horse- radish, the same of each of allspice, black pepper, and salt, in a quart of best white wine vinegar in a stone jar, on a trivet by the side of the fire, for three days, keeping it well closed. When cold bung them down tightly, and cover them with bladder wetted with the pickle, and leather. ONIONS : To Pickle (2). Peel the onions till they look white; boil some strong salt and water, pour it over them, and let them stand in this twenty-four hours, keeping the vessel closely covered to retain the steam. After that time wipe the onions quite dry, and when they are cold pour boiling vinegar, with ginger and white pepper, over them. Take care the vinegar always covers the onions. ONIONS, BAKED OR ROASTED. Put them as taken from the store-room into a tin, and bake in a moderate oven, or roast in a Dutch oven. Serve with cold butter in a small plate. The outer peel should not be removed until the onions are to be eaten. ONIONS, GARBURE OF. Take about forty onions, cut them in quarters, which divide into two or three slices (having taken off the skins, heads, and stalks); put about ^ lb. of butter into a pan, and when it is melted fry the onions in it of a nice clear colour. Then have some bread cut in thin slices, place a layer of this on a dish, then a layer of onions, and so on alternately until the dish is quite full, strewing pepper and salt between each. Pour some stock over the whole, and set it on the fire to simmer till the gratin is formed, taldng great care not to let it burn, as that will make it bitter, but all the moisture must be completely dried up. Have some broth in a separate dish, and serve it. ONIONS, RAGOUT OF. Peel a pint of small onions, and take four large ones, and cut them very small; then melt J lb. of butter in a stewpan, and when it has done hissing put in the onions, and fiy them a light brown; then sprinkle in a little flour, and shake them round till they are thick; add a little salt, a little beaten pepper, a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a tea-spoonful of mustard ; stir all well together, and when well flavom'ed,and of a good thickness, pour it into a dish, and garnish with fried bread crumbs. ONIONS, STEWED. Peel half a dozen onions, and fry them gently a nice brown, taking care not to blacken them ; then put them into a small stewpan, with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover them, and let them stew gently for two hours. Lightly flour them at first. OPAL. One of the most beautiful produc- tions of the mineral world. It is a compound of about 89 of silica, 1 of peroxide of iron, and 10 of water, and is distinguished by its very brilliant display of colour. The finest specimens come exclusively from Hungary. There is a variety called hydrophane, which is white andOPI [ 271 ] OPH opaque till immersed in water; it then re- sembles the former. Common opal is usually of a dirty white, and does not exhibit the colours of the noble opal. The substance called meni- lite, from Menil Montant, near Paris, is nearly allied to common opal. It is found in irregular masses in beds of clay. OPHTHALMIA. See Eye, Inflammation of. OPIATES. {See Anodyne.) Opium, as a stimulant, is, in the Oriental regions, abundantly in use; but among the more northern nations that of wine and spirituous liquor has a preference. Though tobacco, hemlock, henbane, nightshade, and the milky juice of the poppy and wild lettuce also possess narcotic qualities, opium is the article which, for medicinal purposes, is usually adopted. A small dose of opium exhilarates the spirits, and also augments both the vital and the natural functions. In a larger dose, headache, delirium, and convulsions are produced ; the mouth, too, becomes dry and parched, and the thirst con- siderable ; and there is sleep more or less pro- found. Should, too, an inordinate quantity of opium bo taken, together with stupor and sleep, as in apoplexy, the breathing is difficult, with snoring. A fatal termination then often super- venes. The temperate use of opium is that which is alone admissible. This being difficult pi-ecisely to regulate, and as wine and spirituous liquors, somewhat diluted, have a safer operation, they should, with the exception of intestinal fluxes and severe morbid affection, in general, be pre- ferred. Discharges of blood and of the customary evacuations, spasms, convulsions, and the urgent stages of nervous affection, are diseases in which opiates are usually given. The following are various forms in which an opiate may be administered :— Draughts. Take of tincture of opium from 10 to 30 minims ; peppermint water, 1^ fluid oz. ; spirit of peppermint and syrup of orange, of each 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught. It is to be given occasionally. Or, take of confec- tion of opium ] scruple ; peppermint water, 1J fluid oz.; spirit of caraway and syrup of ginger, of each 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught. It is to be taken as the preceding. Mixtures. Take of compound tincture of camphor 3 fluid ozs. Two tea-spoonsful may be taken occasionally. Or, take of confection of opium 2 drachms ; cinnamon water, 5 fluid ozs. ; spirit of cinnamon, 1 fluid oz. Mix them. A table-spoonful to be taken as circum- stances may require. Pills. Take of pills of soap, with opium, drachm. Make six pills. One should be as oiven circumstances may require. Powders. Take of powder of burnt harts- horn, with opium, I scruple. It may be given in cinnamon water. Or, take of compound powder of chalk, with opium, \ drachm. It should be used as the preceding. OPIUM is obtained from the juice of the common poppy [Papaver somniferum). The countries in which opium is produced as an article of commerce are Asiatic Turkey, Egypt, Persia, and India. The Turkey opium is ex- ported from Smyrna and Constantinople, and is the produce of the province of Anatolia. It is always distinguished by being covered externally with the remains of leaves, and by a quantity of the seed-vessels of a species of rumex, whicli ai'e employed to prevent the lumps from ad- hering and forming a mass. It is in masses, which have been originally of a round form, but variously indented, and rendered quite irregular, by the pressure to which it has been subse- quently subjected. Two varieties are distinguish- able in the Turkey opium. In that which comes from Smyrna, when a lump is broken, numerous minute shining tears are observable, particularly under the microscope, bearing some resemblance to small seeds, but readily distin- guishable by pressure between the fingers. These are supposed to be drops of the juice which escape from the incisions of the capsules, and which, according to Belon, are allowed to concrete before they are removed. Tlie same author states that, after the juice has been collected, it is not subjected to the process of kneading or beating, as in the case of other varieties of opium. Another peculiarity of this variety is the minute pieces of the poppy cap- sules which are found intermingled in the mass, which may arise from the mode of collecting it; but these are the only impurities which it contains. Smyrna opium should yield from ten to eleven per cent, of morphia. That which is received from Constantinople is wholly destitute of the tears of which we have just spoken ; and in this alone does it diifer, in external appear- ance, from the former variety, as it also has the seed - vessels of the rumex attached to it. Egyptian opium is in the form of flat, roundish cakes, sometimes as much as six inches in diameter, and weighing 1 lb., and sometimes not more than ^ oz. These cakes are wrapped in a poppy leaf, so placed that the midrib divides the surface in two equal halves ; and, should the leaf not be present, the mark of the midrib may still be detected. This variety is wholly destitute of the seed-vessels of the rumex, and differs from the preceding in being brittle instead of tenacious, and equally hard in the centre as at the surface. Egyptian opium presents all the indications of extensive adulteration. On exposure to the air it becomes[ 272 J OPI OPI damp and sticky, indicating the presence of some deliquescent substance; and, on analysis, it is found to contain only six or seven per cent, of morphia. Indian opium is of two kinds, that produced in Bahar and Benares being called Bengal Patna opium, and that of the interior provinces Malu-a opium. The former is in the shape of round balls, weighing 3^ lbs., and enveloped with a coat, half an inch thick, of poppy leaves and petals. It is either a very inferior variety to Turkey opium, or is very extensively adulterated, as the greatest amount of morphia which has hitherto been extracted from it does not exceed five per cent. The belief is that its inferiority arises from the mode of preparation : the juice being kept some time after collection, fermentation ensues before it is made. But there is a variety made in Bahar, and designated garden Patna opium, which Dr. Christison says is little inferior to Turkey opium in the proportion of morphia which it contains, arising from the juice not having undergone fermentation. It is in the form of cakes, three or four inches square, and about half an inch thick, which are packed in cases, with a layer of mica between them. These cakes are without any wrapper, hard, dry, and brittle, and of a uniform shining fracture. The colour is sometimes almost black, and sometimes of a light brown. Malica opium is made in the form of flat, roundish cakes, five or six inches in diameter, and from 4 ozs. to 8 o.-^s. in weight. They are quite hard, dry, and brittle, of a light brown colour, shining fracture, and quite free from impurities. This is much superior to the common Bengal opium, and yields 9 j per cent, of morphia. Persian opium.—It is very rarely that this appears in the markets of this country. It is presented in the form of cylindrical pieces, three inches and a half long, and half an inch thick, wrapped in glossy paper, and tied with a cotton thread. Under the microscope it exhibits the agglutinated tears met with in Smyrna opium, but much smaller in size. The quality is of a very inferior description, and, on analysis, does not contain more than three per cent, of morphia. Opium is one of the most valuable medicines of the pharmacopoeia. It is a stimulant narcotic, exercises an absolute control over the nervous system, but its operation is one of the most complicated and obscure in the science of medicine. A small dose, such as half a grain or a grain, calms excitement, allays pain, and often procures refreshing slumber. A larger dose produces, in some cases, more or less of profound stupor, succeeded by debility and fears; in others it is exciting, exalts all the functions, and causes a sort of delirium or mental alienation; and, lastly, it occasions death. The natives of India and the East use' opium in large quantities without inconvenience, particularly the Mahommedans and Hindoos, who find in it the most pleasing substitute for those alcoholic drinks which their religion pro- hibits. The Turks and Persians eat it almost constantly, and mix it with their sherbets ajid other beverages; and by many nations of the East it is smoked, as those of the West do tobacco. In the year 1852 the opium imported into this country amounted to the enormous quantity of fifty-one tons. According to the best authorities the che- mical constituents of opium are, morphia, nar- cotine, codeia, paramorphia, narceine, meconin, porphyroxia, pseudomorphia, meconic and sul- phuric acids, a peculiar acid not yet sufficiently investigated ; extractive matter, gum, bassorine ; a peculiar resinous body, insoluble in ether, and containing nitrogen; fixed oil; a substance resembling caoutchouc; an odorous volatile principle, besides lignin and a small propor- tion of acetic acid, sulphate of lime, sulphate of potassa, alumina, and iron. By far the most important of these ingredients is morphia. It is the chief, if not the exclusive narcotic prin- ciple of opium, and is a salt crystallised in the form of irregular six-sided prisms, colourless, bitter, inodorous, and nearlj"^ insipid. When exposed to heat it becomes white and opaque ; at a higher temperature it melts to a yellowish liquid, and crystallises again when cooled ; and when heated in the open air it burns with a bright flame. It is nearly insoluble in water, but quite soluble in oil or boiling alcohol. It is the salts of morphia, the acetate, sulphate, and muriate, that are used in medical practice. They have the anodyne, soporific, and diajiho retic properties of opium, but are less stimulant, less disposed to constipate the bowels, and less apt to leave behind them headache, nausea, or other unpleasant effects. Narcotine, or narcotina as it is called by those who regard it as an alkali, is a white, tasteless, and inodorous salt, in the form of flexible, needle-shaped crystals, larger than those of morphia. It is insoluble in cold, but soluble in boiling water and boiling alcohol, the fixed and volatile oils, and the diluted acids. 'J'hough tasteless, its salts are bitter—even more so than those of morphia. Contrary opinions have been expressed with regard to the active properties of narcotine. Magendie found that 1 grain, dissolved in oil, threw a dog into a state of stupor, which, in twenty-four hours, terminated in death; but that the unpleasant effects were modified or prevented in conjunction with acetic acid, 24 grains being given to a dog, dissolved in vinegar, without causing death. M. Baily prescribed it iu the dose of 60 grains, both inORA OPO tlie solid state and dissolved in muriatic acid, ■without observing from it any sensible effect; and in the same state Orfila found that it might be taken by man, in very large doses, ■with impunity; but vipon dogs a solution of 30 or 40 grains in acetic or sulphuric acid, or olive oil, was sufficient to produce fatal effects. It is believed that narcotine, either in the solid form or dissolved in acids, is not possessed of any considerable narcotic powers, but that any effects of a narcotic character which have been attributed to it have arisen from the use of a preparation not entirely freed from other principles contained in opium. Codeia is in the form of flat, colourless, trans- parent prisms. It is soluble in water, and, when added in excess to boiling water, the undissolved portion melts and sinks to the bottom, having the appearance of an oil. It is soluble, also, in alcohol and ether, but is insoluble in alkaline solutions. The medicinal effects of a dose of 3 grains produces no result; but in the quantity oi 4 or 6 grains it accelerates the pulse, occasions a sense of heat in the head and face, and gives rise to an agreeable excitement of the spirits, like that produced by intoxicating drinks, which is attended by a sense of itching on the skin, and, after lasting several hours, is followed by an unpleasant depression, with nausea, and sometimes vomiting. Pammorphia is white, in the form of needle-shaped crystals, of an acrid and styptic, rather than a bitter taste. It is' scarcely soluble in water, very soluble in alcohol and ether, even when cold, and still more so when heated, and capable of combining with the acids, with which it does not form crystallisable salts. Magendie states that its effect on the system closely resembles that of brucia and strychnine, producing tetanic spasms in doses of 1 grain. Narceine is white, in silky, needle - shaped crystals, inodorous, slightly bitter, and pungent. It is soluble in water and alcohol, but insoluble in ether, and has not been found as yet to have any influence on the system. Meconm is also white, and in the form of needle-shaped crystals ; it is soluble in water, ether, alcohol, and in the essential oils. From the degree of acrimony which it presents, it may be supposed to have some influence on the animal system ; but its effects have not been sufficiently observed. Meconic acid is in white crystalline scales, of a sour taste, followed by bitterness. It exerts no influence on the animal system, and is not used separately in medicine. OPODELDOC. Dissolve i oz. of camphor in half a pint of spirits of wine, adding to the solution 3 drachms by measure of oil of rose- mary, and drachm of oil of thyme. Into half a pint of boiling rain or soft water introduce VOL. u. 8 ozs. of hard white soap cut into thin shavings. When dissolved, and allowed to cool a little, add this solution to the previous spirituous mixture, and, having well incorporated the two together, add ^ oz., by measure, of strong water of am- monia, and finally mix up the whole. Whilfe warm pour into suitable bottles for use, and the opodeldoc, on becoming cold, will assume the gelatinous state. For its uses, and another recipe for making it, see Liniment, Camphob. OPODELDOC, STEER'S. This is rather more stimulating than the preceding. Nearly a pint may be obtained by mixing the following ingredients:—Castile soap cut into small shreds, 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 8 ozs.; camphor cut small, 3^ ozs.; oil of rosemary, ^ drachm; oil of marjoram, 1 drachm; solution of ammonia, ti drachms. Mix in a pint bottle, and shake frequently until incorporated. ORANGE BISCUITS. Boil some Seville oranges whole in several waters till all the bitterness is taken from them ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice ; then put the out- sides iu a mortar, and beat them very fine ; add to it an equal weight of double-refined sugar, beaten and sifted. When thoroughly mixed to a paste spi'ead it thin on china dishes, and set them in the sun or before the fire. When they are about half dry cut them into whatever form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box with layers of paper. ORANGE BUTTER. Take six eggs, and boil them hard; beat them in a mortar with 2 ozs. of fine sugar, 3 ozs. of butter, and 2 ozs. of almonds, bleached and beaten to a fine paste ; moisten with orange-flower water, and when all is mixed.rub it through a cullender on a dish, and serve with sweet biscuits between. ORANGE CAKES. Put three spoonsful of orange-flower water to the whites of ten eggs, and beat them an hour; then put in 1 lb. of powdered and sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a Seville orange. When mixed add the juice of half the orange, and the yolks of ten eggs beaten till smooth; stir in f lb. of flour, butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. ORANGE CHEESECAKES. Blanch 8 ozs. of almonds, beat them very finely with orange- flower water, beat and sift lb. of sugar, and melt 1 lb. of butter very carefully with- out oiling (the butter must be nearly cold before you use it for your cheesecakes); then beat the yolks of ten and the whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges and a fresh one (having previously boiled out the bitterness) in a mortar till as tender as marmalade without any lumps ; then mix the whole together, and put into patty pans. T[ 2Td ] OR A 0 R A ORANGE CHIPS : To Candy. Pare the oranges thin, leaving very little white on the rinds, into spring water. Boil them in the same water till tender, continuing to add fresh as the former wastes. Make a thin syrup with part of the water they are boiled in ; then add the rinds, but without letting them boil much; take them ofl, and let them stand three or four days, then repeat the boiling till the syrup draws in threads between the fingers, when they must be taken off instantly, and drained in a cullender. Take out only a few at a time, that they may not cool so fast as to make it difficult to part them. The best way is to take the chips out singly, and lay them apart on a wire sieve to dry iu a stove or before the fire. About S lbs. of sugar will make syrup enough for the peels of twenty-five oranges. ORANGE "cream. Pare the rind of a Seville orange very thin, squeeze the juice of four oranges, and put it with the peel into a tossing-pan, with a pint of water and 8 ozs. of sugar; beat the whites of five eggs, mix the whole together, set it over a slow fire, stir it all one way till it looks thick and white, and then strain it through a gauze sieve, stirring it till cold. Then beat the yolks of the five eggs very fine, and put it into the pan with some cream, stir it over the fire till ready to boil ; then pour it into a basin, and stir it till quite cold before you put it into glasses. ORANGE CREAM, FROTHED Make a pint of cream very sweet, put it over the fire, and let it just boil; then put the juice of a large orange into a small deep glass, having previously steeped a bit of orange-peel for a short time in the juice. When the cream is almost cold pour it out of a teapot upon the juice, holding it as high as possible. ORANGE CUSTARD. Having boiled the rind of a Seville orange till very tender, beat it in a mortar to a fine paste; put to it the juice of a Seville orange, a spoonful of the best brandy, 4 ozs. of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat them all well together ten minutes, and then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream ; keep beating it till cold, and then put it into custard glasses. Set them in an earthen dish of hot water, let them stand till they are set, and then stick preserved orange or orange chips on the top. It may be served hot or cold. ORANGE-FLOWER BALLS, Whip up the whites of two eggs with 3 lbs. of powder sugar, adding by degrees 1 oz. of orange-flower water, and a pinch of carmine in powder. When these ingredients form a tolerably firm paste pour it on a sheet of paper, and cut it in pieces, ivhich make into little balls by rolling them in your hands ; place them on paper about half an inch apart, and put them into the oven till they swell a little; then take them out, and keep them dry. ORANGE-FLOWER BISCUITS. Take the yolks of six: eggs, and beat them up with thi-ee spoonsful of orange-flower marmalade and some green lemon-peel grated; then add the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth, and J lb. of sifted flour. Mix these together well, put the preparation into paper cases, bake like other biscuits, and glaze them when done. ORANGE ■ FLOWER CAKES. Take i lb. of fresh orange flowers picked, and 2 lbs. of fine sugar; put the white of an egg and a small quantity of sifted sugar into a basin, and beat them to the consistence of cream cheese ; dis- solve your sugar, skim, and in a little time add the orange flowers, and then boil the sugar to petite casse; take it from the fire, and put to it half a spoonful of the beaten egg ; then with a spatula stir quickly round the sides of the pan, and the moment the syrup rises cease till it falls , then stir again till it rises a second time, when it must be poured into moulds or cases well oiled, and sift sugar over the surface. The juice of half a lemon added to the ingredients increases the whiteness of the r/dteau souffle. If, however, you wish it coloured, put a small quantity of the requisite colouring material into the white of egg whilst beating. ORANGE-FLOWER CHEESE. Throw a handful of picked orange flowers into a pint of boiling cream, cover, and let it cool; tiien, if the cream is sufficiently flavoured, strain and mix it with another pint of thick cream, stirring continually. When of the proper thickness fill your mould, and surround it with ice. ORANGE - FLOWER CLARAQUET. Having pared some golden pippins perfectly, slice the apples very thin, wash them in several waters, and then boil them slowly with a little water in a covered saucepan until the apples are entirely reduced; strain it through a damp cloth, mix with it over the fire a spoonful of orange-flower marmalade, and give them one boil together; then strain it again through a damp cloth, boil an equal quantity of sugsr to tmsc, put the liquid a little at a time to this, and let it stand a moment; then take it off', skim, and replace it on the fire. When the whole has boiled up two or three times pour it into glasses. ORANGE-FLOWER CONSERVE. Boil ^ lb. of clarified sugar to grande plume, take it from the fire, and pour it into a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower water ; stir them together well, set the mixture on the fire, and when warm pour it into shallow paper cases; let it cool, and then cut it into cakes of any form you please.ORA ORA [ 275 ] ORANGE-FLOWER CREAM. Having boiled a pint of cream with the same quantity of milk, add some sugar and a small quantity of salt, and when it boils put in a good pinch of orange flowers ; cover, and continue to boil until the cream is well flavoured with the flowers; then mix with it the yolks of ten or six eggs, according to the size of the mould, and stir them together over the fire, taking care not to let it boil; take it off, put in the clarified isinglass, and rub it through a silk sieve ; pour it into a mould or cups, which place in a pan, with a sufficient quantity of water to reach half way; cover, and put fire on the lid to prevent the steam from dropping on the cream. When done let it cool. If the cream is for cups, as many eggs must be put in as you have cups. ORANGE-FLOWER ICE. Dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in five pints of water, put 1 lb. of well- picked orange flowers into a large bottle or jar, pour the syrup on them, close the vessel her- metically, and let it stand five hours ; then strain it in the sarbotiere, and ice it as usual. See Ice. ORANGE-FLOWER JELLY (Printaniere Au Caramel). Having clarified f lb. of sugar, boil half of it to caramel; then take it from the fire, and add to it 1 oz. 4 drachms of fresh-gathered orange flowers; stir them in with a silver spoon, and when quite cold pour on them two glasses of boiling water; then set the mixture on hot ashes till the caramel sugar is dissolved, and, as soon as it is so, strain and mix with it the remainder of the sugar and 1 oz. of clarified isinglass. Finish your jelly as directed for Jelly, Printaniere. ORANGE-FLOWER MARCHPANE. Take 6 ozs. of orange-flower marmalade, 2 lbs. of sweet almonds, and 1^ lb. of sugar ; blanch and pound the almonds to a very fine paste, and clarify and boil the sugar to petit boulet; then add the almond paste and marmalade to it, stir them till of the proper consistence, and when cold make your marchpane into cakes of whatever size and shape you please. ORANGE - FLOWER MARMALADE. Take 1 lb. of orange flowers and 2 lbs. of sugar; take the fibres from the flowers, which throw into a saucepan of cold water. When all are done squeeze over them the juice of one large or two small lemons, and set this on the fire, constantly stirring till the flowers give to the touch ; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve, pouring cold water on them till they are quite cold; put them into a mortar, and pound them to a sort of paste, which mix with the sugar boiled to boulet; boil them together a few times, then take it oft', and mix with it 1 lb. of apple jelly. As soon as they are thoroughly incorporated the marmalade may be put into pots, which must not, however, be covered till cold. ORANGE-FLOWER PASTILS. Pulverise a good pinch of dried orange flowers, and pound them with gum dragon, previously dissolved in one glass of plain, and the same quantity of orange-flower water; add a sufficient proportion of powder sugar to make the paste of the requisite consistence, which form according to your taste into cones, lozenges, &c. ORANGE-FLOWER SYRUP. Clarify and boil 4 lbs. of sugar to perle, add % lb. of fresh orange flowers picked, and boil them once; then take the pan from the fire, and let it stand for two hours, after which replace it on the fire. When it has had about a dozen boilings pour it through a sieve into another saucepan, boil the syrup to lisse, and put it aside. When quite cold bottle it. The flowers may be used as follows :—Put them into powder sugar, with which rub them well with your hands till quite dry ; then sift and put them in a stove. ORANGE-FLOWER WATER. Put into a still 10 lbs. of fresh-gathered orange flowers, and six quai'ts of pure river water ; take particular care to close up all the apertures of the still perfectly, and set it on a moderate fire, that the ebullition may not be too strong. Be particular in cooling it frequently, or at least, whenever the water in the boiler becomes too warm, change it, and put in fresh. Much depends on the attention paid to this part of the operation. From the above quantity three quarts of orange- flower water may be drawn. ORANGE FLOWERS: To Preserve. Take the orange flowers just as they begin to open, put them into boiling water, and let them boil very quickly till they are tender, putting in a little juice of lemon as they boil to keep them white; then drain them, carefully dry them between two napkins, and put them into clarified sugar (a sufficient quantity to cover them). The next day drain the syrup, boil it a little smooth, and when almost cold pour it on the flowers. The following day drain them, and lay them out to dry, dusting them a very little. ORANGE FLOWERS, CANDIED. Boil some clarified sugar to souffle^ and then throw in some picked orange flowers ; remove it from the fire, replace it in a quarter of an hour, and let it rise to souffle again take it off' a second time, and when about half cold pour it into moulds, which place in a moderately heated stove. Keep it at the same temperature whilst the candy is dicing. When done the top should sparkle like diamonds. Set the moulds on one side to drain for some time before you turn out the candy, which must be kept in a dry place. ORANGE FLOWERS COMPOTE OF. Choose your flowers very white and well picked.ORA [ 276 ] ORA throw tliem into boiling water, and blanch them till you can crush them with your fingei's; then take them out, put them into cold water with some lemon juice, and change the water several times, having lemon juice in each; then drain and put them into clarified sugar (lukewarm); cover, and leave the flowers to imbibe the sugar for three or four hours. ORANGE FLOWERS, GRILLAGE OF. Boil ^ lb. of sugar to la plume, and then mix it with \ lb. of picked orange flowers ; stir them well, and when the flowers have taken a good colour squeeze over them the juice of a lemon ; then put a layer of nonpareil on a dish, on which spread the grillage of orange flowers, then the nonpareil again, and so on altei'nately until all your material is used, when put in the stove to dry. ORANGE FLOWERS, RATAFIA OP Dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in a sufficient quantity of water, set it on the fire, add 1 lb. of well- picked orange flowers, and give the whole one boil; then let it cool, pour it into a jar, and put to it three quarts of the best brandy; cover the vessel very closely, and leave it a fortnight, after which filter and bottle the ratafia. ORANGE FOOL. Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well beaten, a pint of ci'eam, a little nutmeg, cinnamon, and sugar; set the whole over a fire, and stir it till thick, but without boiling. When done pour it into a dish, and let it stand till cold. ORANGE FRITTERS. Take one or two preserved oranges, and cut them into as many pieces as you think proper; make a good thick batter with sweet wine, and finish the same as all others. ORANGE GINGERBREAD. Sift SJlbs. of fine flour, and add to it If lb. of treacle, 6 ozs. of candied lemon-peel cut small, f lb. of moist sugar, 1 oz. of ground ginger, and 1 oz. of allspice. Melt to an oil f lb. of butter, mix the whole well together, and lay it by for twelve hours ; roll it out with as little flour as possible about half an Inch thick, and cut it into pieces three inches long and two wide; mark them in the form of cheques with the back of a knife, put them on a baking plate about a quarter of an inch apart, and rub them over with a brush dipped in the yolk of an egg beaten up with a tea-cupful of milk. Bake in a cool oven about a quarter of an hour. When done wash them slightly over again, and divide the pieces with a knife. ORANGE GRAVY SAUCE. Put half a pint of veal gravy into a saucepan, add to it six basil leaves, a small onion, and a roll of orange or lemon-peel, and after boiling for a few minutes, strain it off. Put to the clear gravy the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, half a tea-spoonful of salt, the same quantity of pepper, and a glass of red wine. Serve it hot. Shallot and Cayenne may be added. ORANGE ICE. Take ten fine blood oranges, peel and divide them into quarters ; take out the pips and heart, and then pound them with the grated rinds of two of the oranges ; put them into a strong cloth, and press out all the juice, which mix with ^ lb. of sugar, pre- viously dissolved in a pint of water. Put this mixture into an ice-box, and ice it as directed for Ices. ORANGE JELLY. Put two quarts of spring water into a saucepan with 4 ozs. of isinglass, and boil it gently till it becomes a strong jelly. Take the juice of three Seville oranges, three lemons, and six sweet oranges, with the rind of one Seville orange and one lemon pared very thin ; put them to your jelly, and sweeten with loaf sugar to your taste. Beat up the whites of eight eggs to a froth, mix it well in, and boil it for ten minutes ; then run it through a jelly bag till it is very clear, put it into your moulds, and let it stand till it is thoroughly cold ; then dip your moulds in warm water, and turn the jelly out into a china dish or flat glass. ORANGE JELLY EN RUBANS. Pre- pare the rinds of seven oranges as directed for Oranges en Surprise, and make half the quan tity of jelly; take an equal quantity of blanc- manger, and whilst the peels are in ice put into each a dessert-spoonful of the blanc-manger. As soon as this is congealed pour on it a spoonful and a half of orange jelly ; let that set, and add two spoonsful of blanc-manger, then two of jelly, and so on till the peels are filled. When quite ready for table cut them carefully in quarters, and arrange them with taste on a dish or in a confectionerv basket. ORANGE JELLY, TRANSPARENT. Take the juice of twelve oranges and two lemons, having taken care that none of the pips are in ; pare two of the sweetest oranges as thiu as possible, put the juice and rind into a bag, and when the former has filtered through mix it with the syrup, tinged with cochineal; add the isinglass, and finish it as in Fruit in Jelly. ORANGE JUICE, BUTTERED, Take seven Seville oranges, squeeze the juice from them, mix it with four spoonsful of rose water, add the whole to the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs well beaten. Strain the liquor to ^ lb. of pounded sugar, stir it over a moderate fire, and as soon as it begins to thicken add to it a bit of butter about the size of a walnut; keep it a few minutes longer over the fire, then pour it into a dish, and serve cold. ORANGE LIQUOR. To each quart of strong spirits put one orange, lb. of loaf sugar, and stick each orange with six or eightORA [ 277 ] ORA cloves. Put these into a close jar, and stir occasionally for two months. It is then to be filtered through blotting paper and bottled for use. ORANGE LOAVES. Cut the fruit into halves, squeeze them, and preserve the liquor. Boil the peels in several liquors to take out the bitterness, and then let them lie for two days in syrup. Boil the syrup again after that period to a good consistence, add the peels, and afterwards put them into glasses for use. When they are wanted take what quantity is sufficient for a dish, and fill them with some pudding mixture, either marrow, bread, plum, &c., or with a custard, and bake them carefully. ORANGE MARMALADE (1). Take eight Seville oranges and three lemons, pare them very thin, and take out all the juice and pulp ; lay the j)eels in water twenty-four hours, changing them once or twice, and lay them on a coarse cloth to drain; then take the weight of juice, pulp, and peel in lump svigar, and boil the whole a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. The peels should be cut in long, narrow strips, and be careful not to leave any seeds or white part of the rind. ORANGE MARMALADE (2). Take the peels of fifteen oranges, without any of the white; blanch them till tender, and then put them into cold water. In a few minutes take them out, drain, and pound them to a paste, which rub through a sieve. Weigh it, and for each pound allow H lb. of sugar ; clarify and boil the latter to large pearl; add the paste, and boil them together, stirring constantly till the marmalade is done, which may be known thus Take some up between your thumb and finger, and if, on opening them, the marmalade draws out like a thread, it is at the right point, and may be put into pots. ORANGE MARMALADE (3). Procure Seville oranges, and stew them till they become so tender that you can pierce them with a straw, changing the water two or three times. Drain them, take off the rind, weigh the pulps, pre- viously taking out the pips, and, supposing the quantity to be 6 lbs., add 7 lbs. of sugar; boil slowly till the syrup be clear, and then add the peel, having cut it into strips. Boil it up again, and it is finished. This is a new method, has been tried, and found to be excellent, simple, and economical. ORANGE MARMALADE, RICH. Quarter some large ripe oranges, and remove the rind, the seeds, and the strings, taking care, as you do so, to save all the pulp and the juice. Put the pulp and juice into a porcelain saucepan, and mix with them an equal quantity of strained honey. If not sweet enough add some powdered loaf sugar. Boil them together slowly, stirring frequently. To ascertain if it is done take out a spoonful, and place it in the cold air: if in cooling it becomes a very thick marmalade it is sufficiently boiled. Put it into wide-mouthed jars or pots, and cover them closely. ORANGE MARMALADE, SCOTCH. Weigh an equal quantity of Seville oranges and loaf sugar; cut the oranges into halves, and take out the pulp ; put the rinds into cold water, and boil them till tender, changing the water once or twice, and when cold remove the white from the peel. Mash the orange pulp, and squeeze it through a cloth, adding a little water the second time of squeezing ; then shred the peel finely, add the juice and sugar, and boil twenty minutes over a slow fire. ORANGE MILK. Take two dozen large ripe oranges, cut them in two, remove the seeds, and squeeze the juice into a very large glass or unglazed earthenware jar: anything acid acts on the glazing. Have ready 4 lbs. of the finest loaf sugar dissolved in a gallon of the best rum or brandy; pour it into the jar that contains the orange juice, stir the mixture well, and add the yellow rind of the oranges cut into little slips. Cover the jar, and let it stand four days, stirring it frequently; then take a gallon of new unskimmed milk (the morning's milk of that day), boil it, and when it has come to a hard boil pour it hot into the mixture; cover it closely, and let it stand till it gets quite cold; then strain it into another vessel through a linen jelly bag, bottle it immediately, and seal the corks. It im- proves by keeping, and will continue good for many years. To use it mix a sufficient quan- tity in a tumbler with ice water, or take it undiluted in a small cordial glass. ORANGE-PEEL. Put the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges into a gallon of brand}"-; dissolve 2 lbs. of sugar in the juice of the oranges, add to it the brandy, and having stirred them well together, close the vessel tightly, and leave it for a month; then strain it off and bottle it. ORANGE-PEEL : To Candy (1). Cut the oranges lengthwise, take out the pulp, put the rinds into salt and water for six days, and then boil them till tender in spring water. Take them out, lay them on a hair sieve, and while draining make a thin syrup of loaf sugar with just water enough to dissolve it. Put in the rinds, and boil them over a slow fire till the syrup candies ; then take them out, and grate fine sugar over them; lay them on a sieve to drain, and set them in a stove or before the fire to dry. ORANGE-PEEL : To Candy (2). Take some Seville orange-peel, and let it soak in several waters till it has lost its bitterness; then boil0 RA [ 273 ] OKA it in a solation of double-refined sugar in water till it becomes tender and transparent. ORANGE-PEEL: To Preserve. Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, put the peels in strong salt and spring water to soak for three days, and repeat this three times; then put them on a sieve to dry. Take 1 lb. of loaf sugar, add to it one quart of spring water, boil it, and skim it until quite clear; let the peels simmer until they are quite transparent, and dry them before the fire. Take loaf sugar, with just sufficient water to dissolve it; whilst the sugar is boiling put in the peels, stirring con- tinually until all the sugar is candied round them , then set them to dry either before the lire or in the oven, and when perfectly dried put them by for use. ORANGE-PEEL RATAFIA. Put the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges into a gallon of brandy ; dissolve 2 lbs. of sugar in the juice of the oranges, add to it the brandy, and, having stirred them together well, close the vessel tightly, and leave it for a month; then strain it off and bottle it. ORANGE-PEEL SYRUP. Take 3 ozs. of the fresh outside rind of Seville oranges, and a pint and a half of boiling water. Infuse for a night in a close vessel, then strain the liquor, and let it settle. Having poured it off clear from the sediment, dissolve therein 2 lbs. of double- refined sugar, and make it into a syrup, taking care that the fire be slow. This syrup, if the sugar is dissolved with a gentle heat, will have a greater proportion of the flavour of the peel. ORANGE POSSET. Squeeze the juice of two Seville oranges into a china bowl, or small deep dish that will hold about a quart, sweeten it like syrup, and add a little brandy. Boil one pint of cream with a little orange-peel. When cold put the cream into a teapot, and pour it to the syrup, holding it high. It must be made the day before it is wanted. ORANGE PUDDING. Put 6 ozs. of fresh butter and 8 ozs. of lump sugar, pounded, in a mortar; then grate in the rind of a Seville orange, and beat the whole well together: as you do it add the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained. Scrape a hard apple, and mix it with the other ingredients; lay paste at the bottom of the dish, put in the mixture, and then put over it cross-bars of paste. Half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. ORANGE PUFFS (1). Pare the rinds of some Seville oranges, rub them with salt, and let them lie twenty-four hours in water; boil them in four changes of water, making the first salt; then drain and beat the oranges to a pulp, bruise in all the pieces that have been pared, make the whole sweet with white sugar, and boil it till thick. Let it stand till cold, and then put it into the paste. This may also be made in the same way as Lemon Puffs. ORANGE PUFFS (2). Peel four large oranges, add 2 lbs. of sifted sugar, pound it with the peels, and make it into a stiti paste with the addition of a strong infusion of gum dragon. Beat it again, roll it out, cut it into any shape, and bake it in a cool oven. ORANGE SAUCE. Put into a stewpan half a glass of stock, the same of gravy, a slice of ham, some small pieces of orange-peel, about ^ oz. of butter rolled in flour, salt, and pepper. Simmer these over the fire till thick, and then add the juice of an orange. ORANGE SYRUP. Squeeze the oranges, and strain the juice from the pulp into a large pot; boil it up with H lb. of fine sugar to a pint of juice, strain it well, and let it stand till it is cold, when it should be immediately bottled, corked, and sealed : keep it in a cool place. This is very fine for flavoming cakes, puddings, sweet sauces, &c., or for mixing with ice-water as a pleasant beverage ; also for ice- cream or water-ice when oranges are not to be had. ORANGE TARTS. Take six or seven fine large sweet oranges, roll them under your hand on a table to increase the juice, and then squeeze them through a strainer over 1^ lb. of powdered loaf sugar. Mix the orange juice and the sugar thoroughly together, but use none of the peel. Break twelve eggs into a lai-ge shallow pan, and beat them till thick and smooth; then stir in gradually the orange juice and sugar. Have ready a sufficiency of the best puff paste, roll it out thin, and line some patty pans with it, having first buttered them inside ; then fill them with the orange mixture, and set them immediately into a rather bi'isk oven. Bake the tarts a little brown, and when done set them to cool. When quite cold take them out of the patty pans, put them on a large dish, and grate sugar over their tops. ORANGE WATER. Put a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of white wine to the outer rinds of fifty oranges; steep them one night, and next day distil them in a cold still. Draw the liquor off till it begins to taste sour ; then sweeten it with double-refined sugar, and mix the first, second, and third runnings together. Cork it tightly for use. ORANGE-'WATER ICE. Rasp a sweet orange, and squeeze out the juice of three, with that of one lemon, adding thereto a couple of glasses of syrup and half a pint of water; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it till thick and rich. Any fresh fruit may be done much in the same manner. ORANGE WINE fl). One dozen of oranges to one gallon of water and 3^ lbs. of fine loaf[ 279 ] OEA ORA sugar. Pare the oranges very tliin, take off all the white skin, and squeeze them well; then put the juice, the oranges, and the water to- gether, and let them stand in the tuh for twenty- four hours , then strain off the liquor, and put it into a harrel, with the sugar, half the peels, and a quart of the best brandy. Bung it down when it has done hissing. It must stand for twelve months before it is bottled. The water is to be cold, not boiled. ORANGE WINE (2). Take 30 lbs. of new Malaga raisins, pick them clean, and chop them small; then get twenty large Seville oranges, ten of which must be pared as thin as for presei'ving; boil about eight gallons of soft water till a third part be consumed, and after letting it cool a little pour five gallons of it over your raisins and orange-peel, and cover it up. When cold let it stand five days, stirring it twice a day. Run this liquor through a hair sieve, and with a wooden spoon press the pulp as dry as you can ; then put it in a clean cask, adding the rinds of the other ten oranges, pared as thin as the first. The day before you ton it make a syrup of the juice of the whole twenty oranges, with 1 lb. of white sugar; stir them well together, and close the cask up. Let it stand two months to fine, and then bottle it off. It will improve by being kept three years. ORANGE WINE (Vert Fine). Take ten gallons of water, 28 lbs. of lump sugar, sixty Seville oranges, the whites of six eggs, 1 oz. of isinglass, ^ oz. of cochineal, and two quarts of French brandy. Peel the oranges as thin as possible, carefully preserving the peel; divide the oranges, and squeeze out the juice ; put the squeezed pulps into a clean tub or otlier vessel, and pour on them the ten gallons of water. Let them remain in soak one night, then strain off the water, and if you find you have lost any of it in the soaking, make up the quantity by adding more water. Having the sugar ready broken in small pieces, add it to the water, taking care that it be well dis- solved before putting it into the boiler. Take the whites of the eggs, beat them to a froth, and put them into the sweetened liquor ; boil one hour, stirring frequently, and removing the scum as it rises. At the expiration of an hour pour the boiling liquor through a sieve on the peels, and when nearly cool add the strained orange juice and a yeast toast. Leave it twenty-four hours, remove the toast, and let it stand another twenty-four hours. Ton it with the peels, reserving two quarts, in one of which dissolve the cochineal, previously well pounded, and in the other dissolve the isinglass; put them into the barrel when both are cold, well stirring them together. Leave it without bunging for a fort- night, then add the brandy, stir it well, and bung it up closely. ORANGEADE. Squeeze out the juice, pour some boiling water on the peel, and cover it closely. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup with as much water as will make a rich sherbet, and strain it through a jelly bag. ORANGEADE PIE. Make a thin crust with hot buttered paste, then slice the oranges, and lay them over the bottom. Pare and core some pippins, cut each into eight parts, and lay them over the oranges ; then lay the oranges on the pippins, and over them some syrup of orangeade ; strew sugar over the top, close up the pie, bake it, and then strew some sugar over it. ORANGES: To Preserve'. Rasp or cut the oranges in scallops with a penknife, and throw them into water, which change once a day for three days ; then boil them till they are tender enough to run a wheat straw through them, put them into cold water till the next day, and pulp and wipe them very dry. Have some syrup ready, and boil them two or three times till very clear. Observe to put the syrup to them when cold. Make it the same as for cucumbers. ORANGES : To Preserve in Jelly. Cut a hole about the size of a shilling in the stalk part of the orange, and with a blunt, small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rind; tie each orange separately in muslin, and let them lie for two days in spring water, changing the water twice a day. In the last boil them till tender on a slow fire. Take care that there is enough water at first to allow for wasting, as they must be covered to the last. To each pound of fruit weigh 2 lbs. of double-refined sugar and one pint of water. Boil the two latter together, with the juice of the orange, to a syrup; clarify it, skim it well, and let it stand to get cold; then boil the fruit in the syrup for half an hour, and if not clear repeat this daily until it is done. ORANGES IN BRANDY. Choose the oranges as neai'ly of a size as possible, and boil them till a pin will penetrate the skins with ease. Do not take out the pulp, but make a small hole through the stalk end ; give them a boil in some clarified sugar, and set them aside. The next day drain off the syrup, boil, and pour it on the fruit whilst hot. On the third day repeat this operation, put the oranges into it, and boil them together ; take out the fruit, add as much brandy as syrup, and make it hot, but it must not boil. When cold pour it over the oranges, which ought to float in the liquid. ORANGES, CHINA (Zest ok). Pare offORA OEL [ 250 ] the outside rind of the oranges very thJn, and only strew it over with fine powder sugar (as much as its own moisture will talie), and set it to dry in a hot stove. OKANGES, COMPOTE OF. Cut them in small pieces, and boil them in water till they are tender; then change them into cold water, scald them, and when they appear soft throw them again into cold water. Next make a syrup Avith one glass of water and 4 ozs. of sugar, and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently over a slow fii-e for half an hour, and serve cold. ORANGES, CONSERVE OF. Grate the rind of an orange into a plate, squeeze the juice over it, and mix the whole with a spoon; then boil some sugar high, mix the fruit therewith, and when thick enough put it into moulds. ORANGES,. FLORENTINE OF (with Apples). Take half a dozen oranges, save the juice, and take out the pulp; lay the rinds in water twenty-four hours, changing the water three or four times ; then boil them in three or four different waters, strain the water off, put them and their juice with lib. of sugar, and set them by for use. When they are used boil ten pippins in a little sugar and water; jiare, quarter, and core them, and mix them with some of the oranges; lay a puff paste in the dish, then put in the fruit, and cover it with a thin crust, rolled and laid across. It may be cut into whatever shape you please. ORANGES PRESERVED DRY. Take some thick-rinded oranges, and mark the quarters, but without actually dividing them ■; then pare and throw them into eold water, after which put them into boiling water; let them remain till the head of a pin will easily penetrate the skin, and then throw them again into cold water. Clarify and boil some sugar to small thread, put in the oranges, boil them together a little while, and then pour the whole into a pan. The next day drain off the syrup, and having boiled it up a few times, pour it again on the oranges. The third day drain off the syrup as before, and having boiled it to great thread, add some more clarified sugar and the oranges; give the whole one boil (covered), and put it aside as above. Repeat this opera- tion two more days. On the last increase the degree of the sugar to pearl, and having added the fruit, boil it three or four times; then set it in a stove for two days, when the oranges may be placed in dry boxes, which must be kept in a dry place ORANGES, PULPED. Either pare your oranges extremely thin or rasp them, cut a hole at the stalk, pulp them very clean, put them into a pot, and more than cover them with spring water and a little salt; lay a cloth upon the top three times doubled, and then upon that a trencher or cover; let them scald gently, changing the water five or six times in the scalding: put salt into the first water. They must be so tender that a straw will pass thi-ough. Keep them in the last water till they can be taken out with the hands, put them on cloths, with the mouths of the holes downwards, changing them to dry places. When dry put them iuto milk-warm syrup, let them lie half an hour, and then just scald them ; take them out, put them iuto a deep china dish, and scald them once in two or three days for a fortnight. The last time boil them up quickly till they look clear, turning them about as often as occasion re- quires. If any part looks white and thick strew sugar over it in the boiling. When they are transparent put them into pots, pour the syrup over scalding hot, put brandy paper over, and tie on a bladder. For syrup 1 lb. of sugar to a pint of water. ORANGES EN SURPRISE. Take ten oranges, choose them of a veiy good form, and the rinds smooth, close, and deep coloured; cut a piece off the stalk end of the orange, being careful to make the stalk scar exactly in the centre; then with a tea-spoon clear out all the juice, &c., from the oranges with the greatest care, so that the rind be pot injured; separate the white from the juice, which filter and make into a jelly. As every orange is thus emptied plunge it into cold water, and afterwards lay them two inches apart on a sieve, round which place plenty of pounded ice. When about to be sent to table fill each rind with the jelly, and lay the tops on ; place sis of them on a napkin neatly folded in a dish, and a seventh on the top. ORGEAT. Beat 2 ozs. of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, and one or two bitter almonds ; then pour thereto a quart of milk and water, and sweeten with sugar or capillaire. This is salutary for weak stomachs, and allays heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added, and also i oz. of gum arabic in gouty cases. ORGEAT PASTE. Beat 2 lbs. of sweet and 1 lb. of bitter almonds with a little water, and boil up two quarts of syrup, with which mix the almonds; stir it, and when cold put it in pots covered with bladder. ORGEAT SYRUP. Beat in a mortar i lb.' of sweet and 1 oz. of bitter almonds, mix the same with a quart of water, strain it through a cloth, and add a glass of orange-flower water. Boil two quarts of syrup pretty high, mix what drains from the almonds with the syrup on the fire, and let it boil till it is fine and clear ; put it warm into bottles, and the next day cork them closely, with bladder over them. ORLEANS PUDDING. Half fill a deep[ 281 3 0 VE OEP dish with almonds, sponge cake sliced thin, or with sliced lady cake ; grate the yellow rind of lemon, and mix it among the cake, adding also the juice of a lemon, and sufficient white wine to moisten the cake, so that after standing awhile it can be easily mashed. For wine you may substitute brandy, or wine and brandy mixed. Beat six eggs till very light, and stir them gradually into a pint of milk, adding four table^ spoonsful of powdered white sugar, and half a nutmeg grated; mix the eggs, &c., by degrees with the dissolved cake, stirring it very hard. The dish should be full. Set it in the oven, and bake it brown. When cold have ready a meringue made of beaten white of egg, thickened with powdered loaf sugar, and flavoured with lemon juice or rose water. Spread this evenly over the top of the pudding, putting one layer of the meringue over another till it is very thick, and then set it for a few minutes in the oven to brown slightly on the top. Any very nice baked pudding will be improved by covering the surface with a merjngue. ORPIMENT is a combination of arsenic and sulphur, and is very poisonous. It is obtained of two colours, When red it is also called realgar; when yellow it is known as King's yellow. Both are used as pigments. ORRIS ROOT is the root-stock of Iri$ Florentina, or Florentine iris. It is acrid whilst fresh, but loses the acridity in drying. It is much used in perfumery, tooth and hair powders, pomatums, and essences. Used medi- cinally it is cathartic, and in large doses emetic; but it is not now used for such purposes. It is chew^d by thos,e who have offensive breath. ORTOLANS. These small and delicious birds form a luxurious treat in Italy, France, and every part of Europe. Abroad they are spitted in pairs, side by side, each wrapped in a vine leaf, with a bit of fat bacon on the breast, and basted with a little of the same. They are served with fried crumbs of bread, and the juice of a Seville orange, The flesh is light, and yet so luscious that few persons can eat more than two. In England the price places them out of the reach of any but the great and wealthy. ORTOLANS: To Roast. They should be picked and singed, but not drawn. Put them on skewers, with bacon round them, and tie them to the spit. When they are done strew them over with grated bread; or they may be spitted sideways, with a bay leaf between, and the dish should be garnished all round with fried bread crumbs. OSTRICH FEATHERS. See Feathers. OTTO. See Attar. , OVENS, BRICK. For the following direc- Fip.l, tions we are chiefly indebted to "The Magazine ot Domestic Economy:"— Fig. 1 shows the front view ol the erection, where a is supposed to be the level of the floor. The space between a and o is about two feet, and is built of nine courses of nine-inch brick- work, excepting at the part marked b, which refers to an ash-flue, not seen indeed, being faced with four-inch work. This flue is about six inches square in its course, but widens a little on the shelf o, and is closed with an iron door or a paving tile at h. Its office is to carry down the wood ashes when the oven is cleared. They fall through the flue to the larger space at h, where they are kept back by the door or tile, and thus are prevented from flying about the room, which they otherwise would do, covering every utensil with dust. In this little recess the wood ashes remain till cold, and then they are taken out, put into water, strained, and form that very useful article hje, or alkaline solution, which assists the laundress or housemaid in many domestic operations wherein pearlash or soda is em- ployed. Fig. 2' is a side view of the oven, four feet long, and from fifteen to eighteen inches deep from the floor to the crown of the arch. The floor is of six-inch paving tiles, over a nine-inch stratum s of flints, boulder stones, brickbats, or other dry and non- conducting mate- rials. The space under this stratum being surrounded with nine - inch brickwork, may be filled with rubbish, chalk, or earth; but this especial cau- tion must be used —that nothing wet, or that will hold moisture, be placed next to the oven floor; hence the necessity of the stratum of flints, &c. This receives heat and retains it, which, were the foundation of solid earth, would be so attracted as to render it extremely difficult to bring the floor to a due degree of temperature. The oven is arched with bricks placed endwise fir, and over this arch dry brick rubbish is laid. In fact, the oven is inclosed at the sides and top with that material, which proves a safeguard against fire The door of the oven is of iron,0 VE OX [ 283 ] ten inches by fifteen. It opens over a sbelf paved with foot tiles, and in front of it is a space, shown at fig. 2, wliere ch marls the breast chimnej-, supported by an arch : it may act independently, or pass into any other chimney, as the case may be. So far the description applies to an oven heated by wood, where the fuel is put in at the door, the flame playing over the internal arch, or crown, and passing out from the same into the chimney, as at ch, fig. 2. Experience must determine the due action of the fire upon the oven, every brick of which ought to be made so hot as to burn off the smoke of the wood. Fig. 3 exhibits the floor and sides of the oven, but with the addition of a furnace for burning coals in lieu of wood g. It is seen in the cut that the bars and door are placed at a right angle with the oven. The flame of the coal plays through the neck n (about six inches square in the clear), and passes in a direction to- ward the back, round which and the crown it circulates, passing out of the front opening to the breast chimney. No Fic.s alteration is required in the structure ; but if coal is employed the oven's mouth must be furnished with a thin plate of iron called a blower, hi. figs. 2 and 8. This plate is made to fit to, and to close the entire opening, excepting a space of four inches at top, formed by folding back its edges to that extent, which thus rest against the cheeks of the brickwork. When the oven is sufficiently heated by the coal the blower is to be taken down, the opening of the neck n closed by a plate of iron, so contrived as to be suspended by a hook or two, built into the side under the crown, and the bread, &c., being introduced, the oven door is to be closed. Two or three remarks remain to be made. The furnace for coal may point to the front, or in any convenient direction, provided it deliver its flame by the neck, in the way laid down in the plan. The plate which closes the neck must be introduced at the front; therefore its means of support or suspension should be so contrived as to admit of its being fixed securely, with the least trouble or loss of time possible. Good sound briciis are the best materials for ovens, and a near calculation of the number required may be made by applying the well- known rule—100 bricks will build a square yard of nine-inch icork—to the dimensions given in our plan : these are on the scale of a quarter of au inch to the foot. Be veiy careful to keep your oven clean, and that there are no remains of sugar or fat that may have run over from anything that has been baking. Puff paste requires a moderately hot oven, but not too hot, or it will spoil the shape and turn it over. Tart paste or short crust requires a slower oven; petits choux, one still slower; but for raised pies let it be as hot as for puff paste at first, and well closed, so that the pies may not fall; therefore, when you give a dinner where paste is necessary, endeavour to make it in the morning. Heat your oven for the puff paste, which must be baked the first; then let the oven go gi'adually down, and bake your pastes in rotation as the heat falls. Savoy biscuits require a cool oven, and by degrees raise the heat as the biscuits are baking. For souffles, or light pmddings, have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to have them ready by the time they are wanted, or they will fall. The greatest attention should also be paid in heating the oven for baking cakes, particularly for those that are large. If not pretty quick the batter will not rise. Should you fear ifs catching by being too quick, put paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if it has become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge it into the centre; draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres put in the cake immediately, and shut the oven. If the heat w'as sufficient to raise, but not to soak the cake, fresh fuel must be quickly put in, and the cake kept hot until the oven is fit to finish the soaking; but this must only be done in a case of great emergency, and those who are employed ought to be particularly careful that no mistake occur from negligence. For further directions see Bre.u) : HeatiiiQ the oven. OX CHEEK, BOILED (1). Bone and thoi'oughly cleanse an ox cheek, and let it steep in white wine for twelve hours ; then season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, and mace; roll it up, tie it tightly with tape, boil it in water, salt, and vinegar till it is very tender, press it hard, and wben quite cold cut it into slices, and serve with oil and vinegar. OX CHEEK, BOILED (2). Wash very clean half a head, let it lie in cold water all night, and break the bone in two, taking care not to bi'eak the flesh. Put it on the fire in a pot of boiling water, and let it boil for two or three hours. Take out the bone, and serve it with boiled carrots and turnips, or savoys. The liquor that the head has been boiled in may be strained, and made into Scotch barley broth or Scotch kail.OX ox r 283 ] ox-CHEEK PIE. Bone and soak the cheeks thoroughly in water, boil them till tender, cleanse them very well, take out the balls of the eye, and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; then mince some beef and beef suet, lay this at the bottom of the dish, then put in the cheeks with a few whole cloves, close up the pie or pasty, and put it in the oven to bake. Make the paste as follows :—Half a peck of flour, the whites of a dozen eggs, and 2i lbs. of butter. Work up the butter and eggs dry in the flour, then add a little water to make it a stiff paste, and work up all cold. OX CHEEK, POTTED, Take an ox . cheek, and thoroughly wash it; then bone it, rub it over with the same ingredients that are used for potted beef, and set it in the oven until it is tender ; then take out the fat, the skin, and the palate; add to 1 lb. of the meat 2 ozs. of the fat which swims on the top of the liquor, beat them together in a mortar, and finish the same as for potted beef. OX CHEEK, STEWED. Take half a head, let it soak for three hours, and thoroughly clean it with water; take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan, with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Place the bones on the top, pour on two or three quarts of water, and cover the pan very closely with brown paper; let it stand eight or ten houi's in a slow oven, or simmer by the side of the fire. When tender put the meat into a clean dish, and let it get quite cold. Take off the cake of fat, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put in what vegetable j'ou think best. OX FEET, FRIED. Boil them until they are tender, skin and split them, take out the bones, and fry them in butter. When they have fried for a short time put in some mint and parsley shred small, a little salt, and some beaten pepper; beat up the yolks of eggs with some mutton gravy and vinegar, the juice of a lemon or an orange, and a little nutmeg ; lay your fry in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. You may add a little shred onion if you think proper. OX - FEET JELLY. Put a little hot water over the top of the stock, pour it oS, and wipe it dry with a clean cloth ; put a quart of it into a saucepan, with the whites of five or six eggs, the juice of five lemons made very sweet with jood brown sugar, a clove or two, and a little cinuaraon pounded; let it boil twenty minutes, stirring all the time. OX GALL. See Gall, Ox. OX HEAD, POTTED. When the bones come easily out take off the meat, break the bones, and return them into the stock-pot. See that there is sufficient water, otherwise much boiling IS vain. See the meat is cool, but cover it over that it may not dry; finish the stock, Strain it through lawn, and prepare it for an aspic; or, in other words, make a fine, clear, high-coloured, savouiy jelly with strong ale, vegetables, and spices. {See Aspic.) Cut the nicest parts of the head into squares or fillets, rounds, lozenges, &c. (the eyes and ears round); slice ham and bacon, and cut them with cutters into flowers, comfits, and all sorts of things; cut also pickled cucumber, and mix in small capers. When all are ready run into the mould a little of the jelly; let it be at least a quarter of an inch thick, and then dress in some of the most beautiful pieces, either in forms or a well-designed confusion : lay over them cut carrots. A bit of beet-root may be so disposed as to be seen, but not too much, as very dark colours take a great deal of management. Run some jelly round the sides, and decorate them, leaving time for the jelly to cool. Mix in the ham, bacon, and pickles, and pour in more jelly : attention must be paid that the pickles do not prevail. As the sides are more seen at table than the top, let some crayfish be set creeping along them (they must be put in with the backs down), and oysters in another place. Comfits may be made of well-seasoned rice, which must be swelled and a little dried, else it would make the jelly muddy. Mince all the parings fine, and after the last part of the border is finished pour it in to fill up the mould. Some stir all well togethei", and pour it into the mould, arranging with a fork the nicest pieces upon the surface. This dish is not expensive, and is very handsome for a standing dish at an entertainment; it is beautiful sliced, and not subject to waste: it may be moulded again. Do not heat it in a saucepan ; put it into a mould that will hold it, and set it into a bain-marie; dish it upon a napkin, and stick on it a rich fringe of parsley round the top and bottom. It is excellent, and a good standing dish in a family where there is a long table to fill up. For entertainments it ought to be made like a very large cake, decorated with jelly. When taken from the table the dish must be placed on a folded cloth, with a heavy earthen vessel turned over it, and covered up with a cloth, that no air may get in, as its appearance is often hurt when it is perfectly good from want of due care. It will also keep well if washed over with distilled vinegar. It is an excellent second-course side dish, either moulded or in slices. OX-HEEL SAUSAGES. Take out the bone, keep the skin as long as possible, and lay it in a marinade of white vinegar and spices for three or four days ; make a farce of reddened beef, or ham, bacon, and panada ; season highly284 ] ox OX witli sweet herbs and spices ; simmer tlie skin in vinegar, and when cold cut a roll of very white bacon, make up the farce about it, and farce them. With a needle draw the skins nearly close at the ends, dip them in crystal acid, and when they are quite dry wrap each up in paper, and wash them over with strong paste. When to be served put them into the oven for an hour, glaze them with red glaze, and serve them over with crisped parsley, spinach, turnips, &c., with white meats. They look well cut in slices. OX-PALATE "croquettes. Having boiled the palates in a blanc as usual, cut them into dice ; have ready some reduced veloute, to which add the yolks of two or three eggs and a small piece of butter; put the minced palates into this, stirring them well together; then with a spoon lay about thirty little heaps of this on a tin, and when cool form them with your hands of any shape you please ; roll them in bread crumbs, then dip them in eggs (well beaten and seasoned with pepper and salt), roll them again in bread crumbs, and fry them in a verv hot pan. Serve them on fried parsley. OX PALATES. The palate should be soaked for several hours, and then scalded until the second skin can be easily removed on scraping with a knife, when it should be put into cold water, and thoroughly cleaned and trimmed, that is, all the black parts cleared away; then put it in a blanc for four ©r five hours, or more if necessary. If, on pressing, the meat is flexible, it is sufficiently done, and may be taken out, and is fit to be dressed in any way you think proper, and served with any sauce OX PALATES, BROILED Cut some blanched ox palates in slices, which soak for some hours in a marinade composed of oil, salt, pepper, parsley, scallions, onions sliced, and lemon juice, then take them out, bread, and broil them. Serve with smice jnquante. OX PALATES, COLLOPS OF. Take two braised ox palates, and cut them into pieces the size 03 half-crowns , have ready twice as many pieces of puff paste, cut rather larger than the palate ; between every two put a slice of the palate, and a little forcemeat on each side of it; press the edges of the paste together, and fry the collops to a nice colour. OX PALATES AU GRATIN, Trim the palates carefully, and blanch them. When cold cut them into slices, and give them a few turns in a little butter and two onions; then add a little ham (also cut in slices), some gravy, stock, cuUis, and a bouquet garni; let these boil an hour, then skim the liquor, put in a httle mustard, and serve on a gratin as follows :—Make a mince of fowl livers, to which add grated bacon, parsley, Bcallions, mushrooms (all shred small), salt, and pepper. Mix these together with the yolks of two eggs, and spread it over a dish, which place on hot ashes as soon as the gi'atin is formed. Drain off the fat, put the palates on the gratin, and serve. OX PALATES IN MOULDS. Take a number of small timbale moulds, in each of which put some veal caul; braise and cut the palates into thin slices the size of the moulds; make a good forcemeat with the trimmings of the palates and some fowl; put layers of this and the slices of the palates alternately till each mould is nearly full; cover each with chopped truffles, over which lay another slice of palate; wrap the caul over, and put them in an oven. When done take them out carefully, wipe off the fat, and serve them with any sauce you think proper. OX PALATES, PICKLED. Wash the palates clean with salt and water, then let them boil in salt and water; skim them verj"- clean, let them simmer four or five hours, and season them with pepper, cloves, and mace. When they are tender cut them into pieces, and let them cool. Make a pickle with equal quantities of white wine and vinegar; boil it, and put in the spice that was boiled with the palates, adding six or seven bay leaves and some fresh spice. When both are cold put them together and keep them for use. OX PALATES, ROASTED. Boil them until they are tender, blanch them, and cut them into slices about two or three inches in length. Take some pigeons and very small chickens ; draw, truss, and fill them with force- meat ; let half of them be neatly larded, and spit them on a bird-spit in the following manner— a bird, a palate, a sage leaf, and a bit of bacon. Have ready two sweetbreads cut in pieces, some artichoke bottoms (also cut in pieces), some oysters, and some blanched cocks' combs, all fried ; rub the dish with some shallots, lay the chickens, the pigeons, and what is roasted in the middle, and arrange the other things round them. Then make a sauce in the following manner:-.—A quarter of a pint of red wine, a pint of gravy, the liquor of the oysters, an anchovy, a little lemon juice, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; let it boil till it has obtained the consistence of cream, and then pour it over the palates in the dish. OX PALATES, STEWED, Thoroughly clean four or five palates, put them into a pan with sufficient water to cover them, tie them down, and bake or boil them. AVlien tender peel them, cut them into pieces, flour them, and put them into some good gravy, with an onion, a few pounded cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and some catsup; let them stew for half an hour, take out the lemon-peel and onion, and add,ox GXP [ 285 ] some morels, forcemeat balls, and lemon juice. Garnisb with sliced lemon. OX PALATES, TIMBALE OF. Having blanched the palates as usual, cut them into lozenges. Have a timbale ready, at the bottom of which put a layer of godiveau or other farce, and on that one of truffles cut in thin slices, and proceed in this manner till the timbale is quite full ; cover the whole with raspings, pour a little beef gravy or rich broth into it, and bake it to a nice colour. OX TAIL BRAISED EN HOCHEPOT. Cut an ox tail in pieces at the joints, soak it for two hours, then scald it for half an hour, put it in cold water, drain it, and trim it. Lay slices of bacon and pieces of veal or beef in a stewpan, put in the tail, cover it with bacon, add three or four carrots, four or five onions (one stuck with three cloves), a little thyme, two bay leaves, and some stock; set the pan on a brisk fire to boil, after which lessen it, and let it stew gently for two hours. When done lay the ox tail in a dish, pour over some carrots cut in pieces, and done up in a little veloute, and garnish the edge of the dish with lettuces braised and glazed. Ox tails, when braised as above, may be served with various articles in- stead of the lettuces, according to taste. OX TAIL WITH CABBAGES. Scald and boil an ox tail, cut it into pieces, and put it in some broth, with a bunch of parsley, shallots, a bay leaf, and three cloves. In one hour's time add a savoy (previously scalded), 1 lb. of pickled pork cut in pieces, salt, and pepper. When done take it out, drain off all the fat, and put the whole into a tureen, to- gether with cullis or broth, to make it more or less liquid according to your pleasure. OX-TAIL SOUP. 'Lay the tails in lime water for some hours, or a night; wash them well, and cut them at the joints. If the bones are sawed across, so as not to separate them, they will give nearly double the strength : this ought to be done with all lai"ge bones. Cover the bottom of the stewpan with bacon, and lay them over it. If palates, skirts, or any other meats are to be stewed, they may all be done together, with a sufficient quantity of turnips, onions stuck with cloves, and sweet herbs, seasoned with Jamaica and common pepper, but not too high, with a quart of browned water to every pound of meat. Have ready nicely turned carrots and turnips, onions, and fried bread, or vegetable balls; strain the soup, return it into the saucepan, and put in the vegetables. OX TAILS, STEWED. Divide them into joints, wash them, parboil them, set them on tlie fire to stew in just water enough to cover them, and dress them in the same manner as we have directed in Gip.lets, Stewed, for which they are an excellent substitute. OXALIC ACID. Numerous deaths haV) occurred from the administration of this sub- stance. It was generally taken in an accidenta! manner, having been mistaken for the sulphate of magnesia (Epsom salt), which it resembles in external character. The facility of the occurrence of these accidents is increased from the circum- stance that it is frequently applied to several domestic purposes, such as the cleaning of leather and the removal of iron-mould and ink spots. There are not, however, wanting instances in which this substance has been wil- fully taken to destroy life. The earliest symptom is burning pain in the stomach, and this occurs early if the dose be large ; but, if it be small, some hours may elapse. Excessive vomiting of a dark-coloured or sail- guinolent fluid soon follows, and commonly con- tinues until near death. There are, however, exceptions to this. Some have not vomited at all; and Dr. Cliristison observes that this is most apt to happen when the poison has been taken much diluted. When life is prolonged for a few hours, pain in the bowels and purging follow, and the feces are mixed with blood. Along with these there is a sunken counte- nance, and the pulse is almost imperceptible at the wrist, indicating the nearness of death. Antidotes. Death is generally so sudden in these cases that but little can be done. Emetics, however, should be immediately given, but not to be aided in the usual way with warm diluents, since dilution accelerates the operation of the poison We owe to Dr. Thompson the recommendation of the use of a mixture of chalk and water, to be given as soon as possible. Oxalate of lime ■will thus be formed in the stomach. Magnesia is advisable, and the solution of the bicarbonate, invented by Dr. Murray, of Belfast, is particu- larly commended, as it precipitates the acid itself and all its soluble combinations. Both of these substances (chalk and magnesia) have been given with striking advantage. The alkalies should not be given, as Christison and Coindet found death to follow in animals from the exhibition of the oxalates of potash and ammonia in a few minutes. " They do not corrode ; they hardly irritate, but they produce tetanus and coma, like the diluted acid." Should the patient be so fortunate as to recover from the immediate effects, the proper means for removing gastric irritation are needed. Stimulants may subsequently be necessary. OXFORD JOHN. Cut a stale leg of mutton into as thin coUops as you can, cut out all the fat and sinews, and season them with[ 286 J 0 YS OXF salt, pepper, and mace; strew amongst tliem a little shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shallots ; put a good lump of butter into a stew- pan, and as soon as it is hot put in all your collops ; keep stirring them with a wooden spoon till they are three parts done, then add half a pint of gravy, a little piece of lemon, thicken the gravy with flour rolled up, let the collops simmer four or five minutes, and they will be quite enough. If you let them boil, or have them ready before wanted, they will be hard. Strew fried pieces of bread over and round them. Serve hot. OXFOKD NIGHT CAPS. See Night Caps. OXFORD SAUSAGES. Mince fine equal parts of pork and veal, add to every pound ^ lb of beef suet; steep m water 1 oz. ot crumb of bread for every pound of meat, and mix it with the meat, adding sage, pepper, and salt; fill and tie very short, almost round. They are much better if pounded, and having a little garlic and sugar added. OXIDATION. See Corrosion of Metals. OYSTER CATSUP. Take some fine fresh Milton oysters ; wash them in their own liquor, then pound them in a marble mortar, and to a pint of oysters add a pint of sherry. Boil them up, and add 1 oz. of salt, 2 drachms of pounded mace, and I drachm of Cayenne; let the whole just boil up again, skim it, and rub it through a sieve. When cold put it into Lotties, cork them well, and seal them down. It is best to pound the spices and salt in the mortar with the oysters. OYSTER CURRY. See Curries. OYSTER FRITTERS. Let the oysters hlanch, but not boil; mince them, and mix with minced cooked mushrooms, a little rasped lard, finely minced suet or marrow, parsley, shallot, mace, and pepper. Mix it into a thin, tough batter; finish as other fritters; serve in a napkin or upon crisped parsley at the second course, as the French do, as a plat de rot. They may be done without the mushrooms. Cooked separately they make two excellent dishes : they may be seasoned sweet. Oysters make excellent sulpicon. OYSTER LOAVES. Take out the crumb of some small loaves, and lay oysters in a stewpan, with their liquor, the bread, and a piece of butter. Stew all these five or six minutes, then add a spoonful of cream, fill up the loaves, placing a little crust on the top of each, and bake them. OYSTER PATTIES (1). Roll oxit some puh paste a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into squares, sheet with them eight or ten patty pans, and put upon each a small piece of bread. Roll out another layer of paste of the same thickness, cut it as before, wet the edge of the bottom paste, lay on the top, pare the edges round, and notch them with the back of a knife; rub them with the yolk of egg, and bake them in a hot oven about a quarter of an hour. When done take a thin slice off the top, and with a knife or spoon take out the bread and inside paste, leaving the outside entire. Parboil two dozen large oysters, and strain them from their liquor; wash, beard, and cut them into four pieces; put them into a stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, some grated lemon-peel, the oyster liquor that has been reduced by boiling to one-half, some Cayenne, salt, and a tea - spoonful of lemon juice. Stir the whole over the fire five minutes, and fill the patty pans. OYSTER PATTIES (2). Open your oysters, and as you do so separate them from the liquor, which must be strained ; beard the oysters, and then parboil them. Parboil some sweetbreads, cut them in slices, place them and the oysters in layers, and season very mode- rately with salt, pepper, and mace ; then add half a tea-cupful of liquor and half a tea-cupfu' of gravy, bake in a slow oven, and before you serve put in a tea-cupful of cream, a little more oyster liquor, and a cupful of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled. If for patties the oysters must be cut into small dice, gently stewed and seasoned as above, and put into the paste when ready for the table. OYSTER PIE. In opening the oysters take care of the liquor; strain, beard, and par- boil the fish ; do the same with sweetbreads, which last must be cut in slices, and disposed with the oysters in layers, seasoned lightly with salt, pepper, and mace. Put half a tea-cupful of the liquor and as much gravy into the dish, cover the oysters with a crust, and bake the pie in a slow oven. On taking it out, add a tea- cupful of cream, some more oyster liquor, and a cupful of white gravy warm, but not boiling. OYSTER PIE, SWEET. Prepare and mince some large oysters with the same quan- tity of hard eggs, nutmegs, ginger, savory, thyme, pepper, salt, sugar, and bread crumbs soaked in cream; dab six hard eggs with anchovy, and cover with farce. Make small balls, inclosing an oyster or a bit of marrow; line a shallow pie dish with paste, spread over it a little farce, and strew it with finely minced citron, orange-peel, eryngo, and a little sugar. Lay in the oysters, make up the pie with the balls, &c., and cover with alight, thin, sugar paste; or, instead of the confected peels, use currants, sugar, and lemon juice, or the whole. This is an elegant top second-course dish. OYSTER POWDER. Open the oysters so[ 287 ] OYS as not to cut them, except in dividing the gristly part which unites them to the shell; pound them in a mortar, and add salt in the proportion of 2 drachms to twelve oysters. After pounding them rub them through the back of a hair sieve, then return them into the mortar, with as much flour that has been com- pletely dried as will make them into a paste; work the whole about several times, and then flour and roll it out to the thickness of half a crown; divide it into small square pieces, and lay them in a Dutch oven, where they may dry without being burnt; turn them every half hour, and when they begin to dry crumble and pound them to a powder, which, after sift- ing, must be put into bottles, and sealed care- fully for use. To make half a pint of sauce put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, with 3 drachms of powder and six table-spoonsful of milk; set it on a slow fire, keep stirring until it boils, and season it with salt. Tliis is an excellent sauce for boiled fowls or rump steaks, and when sprinkled on bread and butter makes a good sandwich. It will keep a long time when closely corked. OYSTER SAUCE. Take three or four dozen plump and juicy native oysters, and im- mediately they are out of the shell put them into a stewpan. Save the liquor, strain it, and put it in with them. When they begin to boil take them off, and pour them into a sieve over a clean basin ; then wash the pan with hot water, and put therein the strained liquor, with about the same quantity of milk, and 2^ ozs. of butter which has been rubbed well with a table-spoonful of flour; give the whole a boil up, pour it through a sieve into a basin, and then return it into the saucepan. Next take off the heads of the oysters, and put in only the soft part of them, and if large halve them, and set them by the side of the fire to keep hot; but do not let them boil, for that will make them hard. If there is not enough liquor add a little melted butter, cream, or milk ; beat up with the yolk of an egg, but do not add it till the sauce is done. Its flavour will be improved by powdering the soft part of six raw oysters, then rubbing them through a hair sieve, after which stirring the same well up with the rest. A few grains of Cayenne may be added to heighten it. OYSTER SAUCE FOR BEEF STEAKS. Blanch a pint of oysters, and preserve their liquor; then wash and beard them, and put their liquor into a stewpan, with India soy and catsup, a small quantity of each, a gill of cullis, and ^ lb. of fresh butter; set them over a fire, and when they nearly boil thicken with flour and water. Season according to taste with a little Cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Strain it to the oysters, and stew them gently five minutes. OYSTER SAUSAGES. Prepare in the same proportions as for Oyster Powder, pound and fill into eel-skins, hog-puddings, or roll them and glaze, or crumb them with grated ham, bacon, Parmesan or any other cheese, with a little sugar, or nutmeg, or cloves for the sweet, with the dried fruits. These are handsome supper or breakfast dishes ; but all such sausages look better in balls, or a little flattened, and served hot in a napkin. Fry oysters a fine light brown, or dip them in egg and crumbs, or in batter. These make an elegant garnishing mixed with balls, or nice second-course dishes served on parsley or in a napkin. OYSTER SOUP. Prepare a good gravy of skate and eels, or any other fish, putting I lb. of each to a quart of water, and stewing it down to half the quantity, after which it must be strained off. Then take a quarter of a peck of oysters, trim off the beards, and pound the horny parts in a marble mortar, with twelve yolks of eggs boiled hard, moistening them in the doing with some of the gravy. Put the rest of the gravy, with the soft part of the oysters in it, over the fire, with a blade of mace. When it boils stir in the pounded ingredients, let the whole boil till it is of a moderate thickness ; season it with pepper and salt, and serve it up. OYSTER TOAST. Take one dozen of large oysters and two anchovies, and chop them together , put in a bit of butter and some oyster liquor, and let them stew gently till the butter is melted; then cut some slices from a roll, and fry them in butter of a nice brown, but not hard ; lay the oysters on the fried bread, and serve. OYSTERS. The common Colchester and Feversham oysters are brought to market on the 5th of August. The Milton, or, as they are commonly called, the melting natives, do not come in until the beginning of October, con- tinue in season till the 12th of May, and approach the meridian of their perfection about Christmas. Some gormands think that oysters are not best when quite fresh from their beds, and that their flavour is too brackish and harsh, and is much ameliorated by giving them a feed. To feed oysters. Cover them with clean water, with a pint of salt to about two gallons of water (nothing else—no oatmeal, flour, nor any other trumpery): this will cleanse them from the mud, sand, &c., of the bed. After they have lain in this twelve hours change it for fresh salt and water, and in twelve hours more they will be in prime order for the mouth, and remain so two or three days. At the time of high water you may see them open their shells,0 YS OYS [ 2f8 ] in expectation of receiving their usual food. This process of feeding oysters is only employed when a great many come up together. The real Colchester or Pyfleet barreled oysters, which are packed at the heds, are better without being put into water: they are carefully and tightly packed, and must not be disturbed till wanted for table. These, in moderate weather, will keep good for a week or ten days. If an oyster opens its mouth in the barrel it dies imme- diately. To preserve the life of barreled oysters, put a heavy weight on the wooden top of the barrel, which is to be placed on the surface of the oysters. This is to be effected by removing the first hoop ; the staves will then spread and stand erect, and make a wide opening for the head of the barrel to fall down closely on the remaining fish, keeping them close together. The oysters which are commonly sold as barreled oysters are merely the smallest natives selected from the stock, and put into the tub when ordered ; and, instead of being superior in quality, are often very inferior. To immature animals there is the same objection as to unripe vegetables. Common people are indifferent about the manner of opening oysters, and the time of eating them after they are opened: nothing, however, is more important in the enlightened eyes of the experienced oyster eater. Those who wish to enjoy this delicious restorative in its utmost perfection must eat it the moment it is opened, with its own gravy, in the under shell: if not eaten whilst alive its flavour and spirit are lost. The true lover of an oyster will have some regard for the feeling of his little favourite, and will never abandon it to the mercy of a bungling operator, but will open it himself, and contrive to detach the fish from the shell so dexterously, that the oyster is hardly conscious he has been ejected from his lodging till he feels the teeth of the gormand tickling him to death. OYSTERS : To Bake. Line a dish with paste; and spread over it some farce; prepare the oysters in their own liquor, with a little stock, butter, sweet herbs, and spices (scallops of any fish may be mixed or put in layers with the oysters); cover with tine bread crumbs, then fill up with more oysters, putting more parsley and minced anchovies into the rest of the crumbs, and finish the dish ; butter it well, lay a paste ornament over, pressing the whole well down, and border the dish with paste. A short time will bake it. The crumbs may be mixed with a quantity of finely shred parsley, curiy powder, or Parmesan. OYSTERS : To Choose. These fish come into season at the beginning of August, and cou tinue till the end of April. Of the various kinds the best are the Colchester, Milford, and Milton oysters, which last have the name of natives, and are distinguished by being white and fat. Oysters are known to be fresh by their opening; for, when alive and strong, they will close again upon the knife with a quick spring. They should be eaten as soon as open, otherwise they lose their flavour. Oysters ought never to be eaten in hot weather. OYSTERS : To Pickle. Put the oysters into a stewpan, dust them with some fine Lisbon sugar, pour to them their own liquor well strained, and set the pan on a gentle fire for five minutes, but without suffering it to boil. Decant oS the liquor into another stewpan, and add to it double the quantity of good vinegar, with some catsup, Cayenne pepper, lemon-peel, and salt. Boil the whole for a quarter of an hour, then dust the oysters again with sugar and salt finely powdered, after which place them one by one in a stone jar. When cold strain the pickle over them, and cover the whole closely with bladder and leather. Some persons cut off the beards before they lay the oysters in the jar. Pickled oysters should be served up in rows, and garnished with slices of lemon. OYSTERS: To Scallop. Allow a dozen for each shell, and more if very small. Wash them in their own liquor, cook them with small button or minced mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and some whole pepper; brown and dust in a little flour; add the liquor of the oysters and stock, and reduce them to a sauce; take it off' the fire, put in the oysters, toss them, add the juice of a lemon, fill the shells, and cover with crumbs and butter; put them into the oven till of a fine colour ; dish and serve. They may be served in their own shells, and broiled; or for broiling blanch them in their own liquor; do not let them boil; pour it off, and add a bit of butter, pepper, minced parsley, and shallots; fill the shells as above, and broil them. OYSTERS, ATTELETS OF. Fry some sweet herbs in a little butter, with a little flour and oyster liquor; season this sauce well, reduce, and thicken it with the yolks of three eggs. Have ready some oysters blanched in their own liquor, put them on skewers, and the above sauce being cold, spread it completely over the skewered oysters; roll them in bread crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. OYSTERS IN BATTER. Make a batter with the yolk of one egg (or more, according to the quantity of oysters you intend to fry), a little nutmeg, some beaten mace, and a little flour and salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in Log's lard to a nice light brown. If agreeable,PACT [ 289 } 0 YS a little parsley, shred very finely, may be put into the Batter. OYSTERS, BROILED. Take two dozen oysters from their shells, put them with their own liquor into a saucepan, just blanch them, and then take away the water ; put in a piece of butter, a pinch of parsley, the same of shallots (both shred), and toss them in this, but do not let them boil; then replace them in their shells, with a little lemon juice and raspings; set them on the gridiron, and when they broil take them off and serve. OYSTERS, ESSENCE OF. Take fresh Milton oysters, wash them in their own liquor, skin and pound the fish in a marble mortar. To one pint of oysters add a pint of sherry, and boil them, adding ] oz. of salt, 2 drachms of powdered mace, and 1 drachm of Cayenne. Boil all up again, skim it, rub it through a sieve, and when cold bottle it off, taking care that it is corked well and sealed down. This gives an agreeable flavour to white sauces and made dishes. By adding a glass of brandy to the essence it will keep when oysters are out of season. OYSTERS, OMELET OF. Chop fine a quarter of a hundred of the whites of cooked oysters, beat ten eggs, and season with mace, salt, pepper, and finely shred parsley; mix in the oysters, and fry slowly a nice brown. OYSTERS, STEWED. Open and take the liquor from them, then cleanse them from the grit, strain the liquor, and add the oysters, with a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few grains of ivhite pepper. Simmer them very gently, add a little cream, and a bit of butter mixed with flour. Serve with toasted sippets round the dish. OYSTERS EN SURTOUT. Scald the oysters in their own liquor, drain, and give them a few turns over the fire in a little butter, shred parsley, shallots, pepper, and a few yolks of eggs ; then chop up the oysters, and mix them with bread crumbs soaked in cream, shallots, mushrooms, parsley (all shred small), yolks of eggs, pepper, and salt. Fill some scallops with this fai'ce, cover them with bread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and put them into the oven for a quarter of an hour. P. PACKING. In packing clothes it may be laid down as a rule that, the flatter they are laid, the greater is the quantity that can be got into a box. In packing brittle goods hay is the best material to interpose between them, and a very small quantity so interposed is sufficient, pro- vided no two articles touch in any of their parts, VOL. II. and they are packed so tightly that there can be no shifting. Hay-bands are the best protection to wooden furniture if wrapped tightly round it, and a bast mat can be fastened over the whole article. The following judicious directions have been published by the Pomological Society:— Fruit should be protected against injury from pressure by being packed in boxes or stout baskets : very light baskets and frails are frequently used, and damage more or less is invariably the result. Against injury from shaking or turning over it should be guarded, firstly, by using cases of moderate dimensions in every direction, or larger cases with partitions in them, that there may not be too great a bulk to move about within the package; secondly, by laying the separate articles so closely and compactly together, that they shall just keep each other steady without crushing. This last is, perhaps, the most im- portant matter of all: no fruit suffers so much as that which is loosely packed. Common sense, of course, dictates that, in packing soft and solid fruits in the same case, the latter should be laid in the bottom. If, however, the box is turned upside down on its journey, this arrangement becomes valueless; and, to guard against such casualties, horizontal partitions of thin deal should be dropped into the box between layers of soft and solid fruit, and secured in their position by nailing or otherwise. Fruit is also frequently damaged in flavour by being packed in moss, brown paper, straw or hay chaff, or other substances which impart their aroma and flavour to all delicate and absorbent fruits which are surrounded by them. If such materials are used the fruit should first be separately inclosed in tissue, cap, or writing paper, cotton wool, leaves, or other scentless material. The bloom of certain fniits is best preserved if they are packed in young nettle tops partially dried. Stout cartridge paper is also excellent for the purpose, as it keeps them steady, without pressure upon more than a small portion of their surface, and its stiffness prevents crushing. Pine-apples travel with least injury to the crown if folded up in a piece of stout cartridge paper, and firmly, but not tightly secured by matting. Grapes carry best if tied down to the bottom of a shallow box, in the manner first used by Mr. Fleming, of Trentham, at the London exhibitions. The next best method is to inclose each bunch separately in a piece of stout car- tridge paper, folding it up somewhat like a grocer's pound pacltage of sugar, and placing them as close together in a box as they will lio without crushing. u[ 290 ] PAI PAG Melons should be inclosed in cap paper, placed iu a box, and surrounded by chaff, bran, or dry sawdust. Peaches, nectarines, and apricots should be carefully inclosed in a piece of tissue paper, and kept separate from each other by cotton wool. The two former should always be accompanied by leaves, and information should be sent as to the size of the flowers—whether large or small. Plums, when the bloom is important, should be rolled up, six or eight together, in a piece of cartridge paper, and tied round with matting. When the bloom is not important they may be packed in strawberry or similar leaves. The first should always be accompanied by leaves and wood. * Cherries, gooseberries, and currants travel veiy well, under general circumstances, if laid together in small shallow baskets or punnets, covered with leaves, and tied over with paper. Strawberries, raspberries, and mulberries should be packed in shallow boxes or punnets, each fruit being separately surrounded by one or two strawberry leaves. PAGE is a servant whose only duties are to attend upon his master or mistress, carrying messages and letters, and going on errands. Usually, however, a page is no more than a footboy, and his duties then are the same as are particularised under the head Footman. PAILLASSE. A paillasse is a grate with short feet, set over embers to cook anything slowly between fires. PAINT, CLEANING. If varnished, paint may be (jleaned with a flannel and mottled soap and water, but no soda must be in the water. Two persons should be employed; one thus to •wash the paint, and the other to diy it with a soft cloth as quickly as possible. If the paint is not varnished put upon a plate some of the best whiting; have ready some clean warm water and a piece of flannel, which dip into the water, and squeeze nearly dry; then take as much whiting as will adhere to it, apply it to the paint, when a little rubbing will instantly re- move any dirt or grease; wash well off with water, and rub dry with a soft cloth. Paint thus cleaned looks equal to new, and, without doing the least injury to the most delicate colour, it will preserve the paint much longer than if cleaned with soap, and it does not re- quire more than half the time usually occupied in cleaning. PAINT SPOTS. {See Grease Spots.) Spirit of turpentine applied to the paint spots on clothes by means of a piece of flannel, and whilst the spots are fresh, is the best mode of removing them. PAINTING HOUSES. With regard to painting a house we must, as in every other case, consider our circumstances, and strictly adhere to that which we can afford. But economy does not always consist in doing things cheaply; it is sometimes more effectually practised by spending a little more money in the first instance, pro- vided always that we can do it fairly, and run no risk of debt. We may sometimes be tempted to employ an inferior workman, because his charges are lower than those of experienced tradesmen. In some cases we ought to consider every pound, nay, every shilling, before we lay it out; but where five or ten pounds are of no ex- treme consequence, and a work can be comj^leted in a manner that may last for some years, or re- quire to be done over again in half the time, it is far cheaper to have it executed in the best manner, and with the best materials. Outside painting should, if possible, be well done, because it is exposed to all weathers. We remember the consequences of employing a cheap, but second-rate workman, when a hall door required to be painted. It was done extremely well as far as the eye could judge ; but in a very few months the paint all washed off, and left the door in a deplorable condition. Had a first-rate painter been employed the door would have re- mained in good order for years. Unless the varnish is good, and well laid on, the work will never stand. Inside painting is not so liable to injury ; but it should be well done if possible, because washing, when soiled, is necessary, and this will deface it in time if it is not well laid on, and in sufficient coats. When paint becomes pale and streaky it never looks clean, and the more it is washed the worse it is. Light oak is an excellent style of painting for the interior of a house. When well executed it has a beautiful effect in drawing-rooms, and is suited to almost every colour. It is considered very durable, which is a recommendation in regard to the hall, passages, &c., if it should not be approved in the principal apartments. The outside painting of houses is generally much neglected. It is an expensive and very disagreeable work; but it is of consequence to the preservation of the woodwork, which will soon decay if not properly protected by paint. Every house should be painted externally once in five years in the country; in towns at shorter intervals. In some towns the inhabitants are compelled to paint once in three years: this is the case in Brighton, and during the painting season the annoyance is extreme; but it is a necessary evil, and gives an air of brightness and cleanliness to the buildings very pleasing to the eye. Window-sills soon crack and become decayed when the paint is not properly renewed; and this entails more expense in the end than if they had been attended to at first. We are very much inclined to spend money in non-essentialsPAI [ 291 ] PAI that we ought, in fairness, to expend upon points of this kind. Inside painting is always done by the tenant. If, therefore, that expense cannot be met at the periods required, the house is too expensive for the occupant, and should be honourably relinquished. If, on the contrary, he mil not perform the lawful repairs, he is acting as dishonestly as the man who robs his neigh- bour. The action assumes another and more specious form, but the principle is the same. The exterior painting of a house is the business of the landlord. On this account a tenant should doubly guard against soil- ing or injuring it unnecessarily. Lawful " wear and tear" are always allowed for, but more care should be taken to protect the property of others than if it were our own. Where there are children it is extremely difficult to keep paint in good order; yet still much injury may be prevented by watchfulness, that would certainly and needlessly take place if no proper check was exerted; and sometimes there is sad indifference shown in these lesser matters, particularly if a lease is drawing to a close Very well-meaning people are often little aware of the selfishness and want of principle that lurks under " carelessnesses " of this kind. If we looked as closely into the source and spring of our words and actions as we do into the handiwork of the cook and housemaid, we might perhaps find quite as much to blame and repair. Landlords are very often put to great expense by careless servants, and often necessarily by good ones : they are, in some cases, so pressed for means that they cannot do what they would. A man may give up the house he rents, but he cannot always part with his freehold; and a landlord stands in a difficult position when he is unable con- veniently to put his house in proper order for inspection ; knowing, at the same time, that no one will take it in its present condition, or be so likely to judge favourably of its real advantages. A little honourable regard for the rights and property of others would be of little account to one party, and of very great moment to the other. Strict conscientiousness will descend to the smallest concerns, as well as rise to the highest; and, although we may neglect many things as too trivial to demand attention, yet, where the interests of others are concerned, we ought to question ourselves closely, and do as we should like to be done by. For the following directions for mixing house paint we are indebted to " The Magazine of Domestic Economy : "— The common oil paint used for domestic purposes is, in reality, a varnish coloured with the requisite opaque powder, according to the taste of the employer; and any coloured material of a metallic, earthy nature may be formed into a paint by grinding it into a fine, stiff paste with drying oil. We shall first say a few words on the kind of varnish and the Colouring powders, and afterwards describe the plan of mixing up ground paint for immediate use. Linseed oil is the usual vehicle of house paint, either in its boiled or raw state, as the ground stiff paint, which it is employed to reduce to the proper state and consistency for use, is of a nature more or less susceptible of becoming dry. In its raw state the oil is thinner, and has less colour, and is, therefore, better adapted for the light-coloured or dead-surface paints, which are generally those containing a large proportion of white-lead ; and its drying properties are aided by the addition of finely powdered sugar of lead, which gives the paint a more glutinising property when exposed to the air. The boiled oil has not only been heated to the boiling point (which is about twice that of water), but has been charged with a quantity of litharge (an oxide of lead), which it has dissolved, and thereby become a real varnish, drying easily alone in the air with a firm pellicle. This oil is well adapted to paints for outdoor purposes, and for those of a dark colour, in which the deep tint of the oil will not be a disadvantage. Paint mixed up with either the raw or boiled linseed oil may be advantageously diluted with spirit of turpentine, which causes it to spread out more evenly and freely, to penetrate the wood more completely, and set with a harder surface. When but little oil is used in a paint, for the sake of the delicacy of the colour, more of the dnjer (as sugar of lead and litharge, when thus used, are called) is added, and sometimes a little colourless varnish, made of white resin and common frankincense, dis- solved in spirit of turpentine and a little linseed oil; and, when much of the oil is used for the light-coloured paints, the yellow tinge is counter- acted by the addition of a small portion of ground Prussian blue. The colouring matters are finely levigated powders of a metallic or earthy nature, ground up, by means of machinery, into a stiff state with drying oil, and afterwards preserved for use under a covering of water. The white paint is either pure white-lead (which is the heaviest, finest, and best), or the same with a large proportion of whiting or fine chalk ground up along with it; the yellow is formed of the various shades of ochre, an earth composed of chalk and oxide of iron; the red is made of Venetian red, also deriving its colour from iron ; the blue is either blue verditer (fi-om copper) or Prussian blue, a chemical preparation of iron, which gives a beautiful and intense colour; the black, from lampblack, and the most difficult of all paints to dry, from the contamination,[ 292 ] PAL PAI perliapg, wliich that substance, as prodaced by the combustion of oily matters, contains of un- decomposed fatty matter not endued with drying properties. Paints should be mixed in brown pots, having smooth, round bottoms inside, in some parts of the country ca.\]ed porringers; and strong, blunt, flat knives, of the size of oyster- knives, rounded at the ends to correspond with the hollow form of the interior of the mixing pots, will be found the best. The pots, knives, and every other material coming near the paint, should be scrupulously kept free from common grease ; and, on the same principle, the surface on which it is intended to apply the paint, when mixed for use, should be perfectly free from greasiness, either by being new, or by being otherwise cleansed with an accurate washing of hot water with soda in it. When dead-painting is employed, that is, paint containing very little of the nature of varnish, but a large quantity of turpentine, which all evaporates again from the paint, and thus leaves it dull and earthy in its aspect, the rooms are commonly kept closed for a short time, to prevent the uneven and too rapid action of such drying. All paints for use should be as thick as the best cream. Black Paint. Lampblack ground up with oil on a slab. This paint requires much aid of turpentine, dryer, and resin varnish to set it, and cause it to dry. Blue Paint. Mix first a white according to the directions below, and then colour it by means of Prussian blue, ground on a slab with a rauller and linseed oil, to the intensity of blue colour required, according to fancy. Fawn Colour. White with brown or chocolate. Green Paint. First mix a yellow of any of the different shades, and change it into a light or dark, yellow or blue green, by stirring into it the due quantity of ground Prussian blue. Lead Colour. First mix a white, and give it the proper tint by stirring in by degrees the required quantity of the ground lampblack. EosE Colour. White coloured with the red. Stone Colour. White paint tinged with the proper quantity of yellow. White Paint. This is the heaviest of the paints, and, from its metallic nature, dries well. First mix in the pot the stiff ground white-lead, with a Jittle spirit of turpentine, into a smooth, uniform cream, adding raw linseed oil, and as much more turpentine as the purpose the paint is intended for may require; finally, tinge it with a little ground Prussian blue, to remove any yellowness, and, if wanted to set very quickly, mix in a little sugar of lead in fine powder. For a stronger common white use the white- lead and whiting, or " common white-lead," as it is called, employing less turpentine, and equal quantities of raw and boiled oil, adding sugar of lead and blue as before. The first mixture gives a dead paint; the second, one of more varnish, body, and gloss, which will allow of being scoured and rubbed when required. Yellow, Brown, Chocolate, Venetian Red, or Mahogany Paint. All these colours are modifications of the same ferruginous principle, and these several paints arc prepared from chalky mineral ochres, found in nature under various shades of colour: they may be bought at the shops iu their stiff, ground state. For these little or no turpentine will be required, unless for fine indoor work : boiled oil, or boiled and raw in equal proportions, may be used; and, instead of sugar of lead, common litharge, being much cheaper, may be used in fine powder. From the simple colours other tints and shades may be obtained: thus yellow and red mixed together will give an orange; blue and red a purple; yellow, red, and black, a brown, and so on. There are other more expensive colours, which we do not dwell on—such as the chrome and patent yellow, copper greens, &c.—because the cheaper ones we have given will answer every purpose for simple economical painting; and the mixtm-e of red-lead with linseed oil, for ploughs and out- door implements, and the black varnish, which is a solution of resin in turpentine, coloured with black paint, applied to the ironwork, are both too well known and extensively employed to require further comment. PALATES. See Ox Palates. PALMER CAKES. Sift 1 lb. of flour into a pan, and rub it into \ lb. of butter and \ lb. of powdered loaf sugar ; add a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, powdered cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace; wet the mixture with two well-beaten eggs, the juice of a large lemon or orange, and sufficient rose water to make it into a dough just stiff enough to roll out easily; sprinkle a little flour on the paste board, lay the lump of dough upon it, roll it out rather thin, and cut it into round cakes with the edge of a tumbler, dipped every time iu flour to prevent stickiness. Lay the cakes in buttered square pans, set them in rather a brisk oven, and bake them brown. PALPITATION. See Heart, Palpitatioi? OF. PALSY. This disease may arise in con sequence of an apoplectic attack; like which, also, it may be occasioned by everything that prevents the flow of the nervous power from the brain into the organs of motion. It may also be caused by injuries done to the spinal marrow, from blows, bruises, wounds, fractures, disloca- ■ tions, pressure on the nerves, poisonous fumes from minerals, and by whatever tends to ener- vate the system, &c. It usually comes on[ 293 ] PAL PAN NTith a sudden and immediate loss of motion and sensibility of the parts; but in some instances it is preceded by numbness and a f 5nse of coldness, and at other times by slight convulsive twitches. When the head is much affected in palsy the eye and mouth are drawn on one side, the me- mory and judgment are much impaired, and the speech rendered indistinct and incoherent. If it affect the extremities, and has lasted long, it produces, with loss of motion and sensibility, a considerable flaccidity and wasting in the muscles of the affected parts. When palsy occurs in young people of full constitution, and comes on suddenly, and where the head appears to be much affected, or where it seems to arise from apoplectic causes, bleed- ing from the jugular vein or temporal may be advisable, after which either of the strong purges recommended in Apoplexy may be given ; but in old age, where palsy exists, neither bleeding nor purging should be practised. Where costive- ness prevails in such habits it may be removed hj means of some stomachic laxative ; such, for example, as the compound tincture of rhubarb, rubbing the parts affected, as well as along the course of the back-bone, with some stimulant application, by means of flannel or the flesh brush, impregnated with the flour or essence of mustard, or else with the palms of the hands and some rubefacient liniment, such as olive oil and oil of turpentine, 2 ozs. of the former to 1 oz. of the latter. Or, take spirits of camphor, 2 ozs.; tincture of Spanish flies, ^ oz.; solution of the subcarbonate of ammonia, 1 oz. Or, mus- tard seed in powder, and horseradish bruised, of each 2 ozs.; crumb of bread or linseed meal, 4 ozs.; vinegar, a sufficient quantity to form cataplasms, to be applied to the soles of the feet or palms of the hands. In addition to the gentle stimulants used to paralytic parts, stinging with nettles may some- times be used, warm fomentations, and blisters; and in some cases warm bathing will prove highly beneficial. Galvanism and electricity are also recommended; and, when the disease affects several parts of the body at the same time, stimulants should be used internally as well as externally, such as mustard seed, garlic, horseradish, spirits, ether, &c., in the following manner:—r Take two tea-spoonsful of white mustard seed three or four times a day, washing it down with cold water. Or, take bruised mustard seed and horseradish root, of each 4 ozs.; bruised orange- peel, 1 oz.; water, 4 pints, boiled down slowly to one pint. Strain the liquor off, and let the patient take a wine-glassful three times a day, adding to it occasionally 30 drops of the am- moniated tincture ol valerian. Besides applying stimulants, tonic mecHcin^s, such as are recommended in indigestion, may bo used internally when palsy is known to ariso from any debilitating cause. The palsy, or loss of nervous powei in par- ticular limbs, which may be a consequence of that painful and obstinate colic caused by poison of lead, is found to be peculiarly relieved by using the Bath waters, more especially when applied externally, either generally or on the part affected. The diet in palsy should be light nntritivo and of a warm, aromatic nature. Exercise, should the patient be able to walk, as much as the strength will bear ; and, if deprived of the use of his limbs, he may be carried abroad in a carriage or on horseback. Rubbing the parts with strong stimulants should be quently used. Flannel should be worn next the skin: exposure to cold moist air should be scrupulously avoided. Change of climate from a cold to a warmer otie may be resorted to. Where the appetite is precarious and fails, and the patient is sinking into a state of weakness, IPeruvian bark and stomachic bitters, with other tonics, m^ay be employed. When the disease assumes a chronlo form, and is of long standing, medicines which pro mote perspiration are proper: with this view camphor, volatile salts, gum guaiacum, &c., may be given. Costiveness may be removed with purges into which aloes enters as the principal ingredient; and regular exercise, with warmth, frictions, and rubefacients, will go a great way in restoring the action and strength of the limbs. PANADA (1). Set a little water on the fire, with a glass of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon-peel : meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off. PANADA (2). Boil some pieces of stale bread in a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover them, with a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, and caraways. When the bread is quite soft press out all the water, and beat up the bread with a small piece of butter, a little milk, and sugar to the taste; a little spice may bo added. PANADA (3). Put a blade of mace, a large piece of the stale crumb of bread, and a quart of water into a clean saucepan. Let it boil two minutes, then take out the bread, and bruise it very fine in a basin. Mix as much water as you think it will require, pour away the rest, and sweeten it to your palate. Put in a piece of butter as big as a waluut, but do not put iaC 294 ] PAN any wine, as that will spoil it. Grate in a little nutmeg. PANADA, EGG. Boil a handful of good raisins in a quart of water; toast a slice of bread, and cut it up ; beat two eggs with a spoonful of sugar, and mix them with the bread. When the raisins are done pour them on the toast and eggs, stirring all the time; season to your taste with wine, nutmeg, and butter. PANADA FOR FARCES. Put the crumb of a French loaf into a saucepan, with a little water, 2 ozs. of butter, salt, and pepper; set it on the fire, and let it simmer for an hour ; then add two or three eggs, which stir in whilst on the fire, taking care that it does not boil. Serve it hot. PANCAKES. Although eggs form the chief foundation of all pancakes, they are yet made in various ways, according to different tastes and countries. The common sort are composed of a light batter, made of eggs, flour, and milk, fried in hot dripping or lard, only half the whites of the eggs being generally used; but salt or nutmeg and ginger may be added, and sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. Or,, when eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour and small beer, ginger, &c.; or, clean snow, with flour and a very little milk, will serve as well as eggs. PANCAKES, FINE. Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs, put them in a quart of cream, beat well, and thicken with wheaten or rice flour; add salt, sugar, lemon zest and juice, or any seasoning more agreeable, as nutmeg or cin- namon, with a little butter : some put in 1 lb. of butter to this quantity, while others put in hardly more than will make them fry. Cover up the paste for two or three hours in a warm place, wipe a proper-sized hot frying-pan, and rub it ■with a buttered cloth for the first one-^the re- mainder will fry themselves. Sift sugar over each separately as they are dished. Serve with lemon, orange, or wine, and sugar PANCAKES, FRENCH. Beat separately the yolks and whites of seven eggs; beat with the yolks four table-spoonsful of pounded loaf sugar, the same quantity of flour, one pint of cream or milk, the grated peel and juice of one lemon, and two table-spoonsful of rose water: add the beaten whites the last thing. Allow three table-spoonsful to each pancake. PANCAKES, FRUIT. Mix the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, into a pint of cream, 1 oz. of flour, 3 ozs^of finely sifted sugar, and as much pulped apricot, peach, apple, pear, or any other fruit as will make it into thin batter; run it very thin over a hot buttered pan, let it take, hold the pan high, and sift sugar, seasoned with cinnamon, clove, or lemon grated, over them; or with a brush wash them over with beaten white of egg, sift sugar on them, and hold tho pan before the fire, or a salamander over it; double or roll up the pancakes, and sift fine sugar over them. PANCAKES, GOOD (1). Take 1 lb. of flour, and mix it with six eggs, a table-spoonful of brandy, a good pinch of salt, two table spoonsful of orange-flower water, and the same quantity of milk and water, or as much as will give the batter a proper consistence; melt a piece of butter or lard in a fi'ying-pan, and pour in as much batter as will cover the pan. When brown on one side, with a knife loosen the edges of the pancake all I'ound, and turn and brown it on the other side ; roll each pancake up, and send them to the table very hot, powdered with sugai*. Hand round sugar, either raw or pounded, to- gether with lemon or Seville orange. PANCAKES, GOOD (2). Take 1 lb. of flour, one quart of milk, six eggs, ^ oz. of salt, 4 ozs. of pounded sugar, and the peel of one lemon grated, with pounded sweet spice or not, according to fancy. Fry as usual, and serve each separately on a plate. PANCAKES, IRISH. Take a pint of cream, eight yolks and four whites of eggs, and beat them with some grated nutmeg and sugar; then melt 3 ozs. of butter with the cream, mix it with the rest, and add thereto about half a pint of flour smoothed fine ; rub the pan with some butter, and fry the cakes thin without turning. Serve several one on another. PANCAKES, DR. KITCHENER'S. Break three eggs in a basin, and be^t them up in a little nutmeg and salt; then put to them 4^ ozs. of flour and a little milk, which beat into a smooth batter, and then add by degrees as much milk as will make it of the thickness of good cream. The frying-pan must be about the size of a pudding plate, and very clean, or the pan- cakes will stick. Make it hot, and to each pancake put a bit of butter about the size of a walnut; when it is melted pour in the batter to cover the bottom of the pan, and make the pancakes the thickness of half a crown. Fry them of a light brown on both sides. PANCAKES, MRS. MARTIN'S. Three eggs, one pint of milk, three table-spoonsful of flour, and a little salt and ginger. PANCAKES, NEW ENGLAND. Mix a pint of cream, five spoonsful of fine flour, five eggs, and a little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once. PANCAKES, POLISH. See Nalesnikis. PANCAKES, WAFER. Beat four eggs well with two spoonsful of fine flour, two of cream, one of loaf sugar beaten and sifted, and half a nutmeg grated. After cleaning and rubbing your pan with butter pour in thePAP [ 295 ] TAN batter, and make it as thin as a wafer ; fry it only on one side, put it in a dish, and grate sugar upon each. PANCAKES, WATER. Stir a quart of warm water in sufficient flour to make a batter of moderate thickness ; dissolve a tea-spoonful of saleratus, with a little salt, into a tea-cupful of buttermilk or sour cream ; beat it well, put a little lard in a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry the pancakes. They are much better to be eaten hot, with sauce, sugar, and cream, or any- thing you may fancy. This is a very cheap dish, and has been thought nearly equal to pancakes made with milk and eggs. PAPER. Every quire of paper consists of twenty-four or twenty-five sheets (the larger number refers to paper made use of in printing), and each ream contains twenty quires. In the manufacture many sheets are damaged: these, in sorting, are put together, and two of the worst quires, containing only about twenty sheets, are placed on the outsides of the ream, and are called outside quires. The reams are tied up in wrappers made of the settling of the vat, and they are then fit for sale. Blotting Papeb, and paper used for filtering fluids, is paper not sized, into which, therefore, the ink readily sinks. The best filtering paper is made of woollen rags chosen for the purpose. Pasteboaed is made in a similar way to that of paper, and when it is wanted very thick it is made by having sheets pasted one upon another. There is, however, a kind of thick pasteboard, called millboard, used for the covers of books, which is made at once. It is composed, like brown paper, of very coarse rags, old- ropes, &c. Wove or Woven Paper is made in moulds, the wires of which are exceedingly fine, of equal thickness, and woven or latticed one within another. The marks, therefore, of these are easily pressed out so as to be scarcely visible. PAPER CASTS : To Make. Stifle, unsized, common white paper is the best. It should be well damped, and, when applied to sculpture, still retaining its colour. Not to injure the latter, care should be taken that the side of the paper placed on the figures be dry, not that which has been sponged. The paper, when applied to the sculpture, should be evenly patted with a napkin folded rather stiffly ; and if any part of the figures or hieroglyphics be in intaglio, or elaborately worked, it is better to press the paper over that part with the fingers. Five minutes are quite sufficient to make a cast of this description, and when taken off the wall it should be laid on the ground to dry. PAPER, COPYING. Make a stiff ointment with butter or lard and lampblack, and smear it thinly and evenly over soft writing paper by means of a piece of flannel, and then wipe off the redundant portion with a piece of soft rag. Placed on paper, and written on with a style or solid pen. By repeating the arrangement two or three copies of a letter may be obtained at once. This paper, set up in a case, forms the ordinary manifold writer. PAPER, MARBLING. (See Marbling.) Another mode of marbling is as follows :— Make a tolerably thick size or paste of flour and water, to which add a little powdered alum, and then boil it in the manner of glovers' paste, &c. Put some of the size, when cool, into several pots, and mix with it such kinds of colours, or other matters used in staining and dyeing, as are held in esteem. Have ready a painter's brush to each pot, and with any of the brushes spread a quantity of the fore-mentioned size very evenly on a flat piece of marble or other kind of smooth stone, or on a smooth board or a table, according to the length or width of the piece of silk, linen, cotton, or sheet of paper. On the coloured size, thus spread, lay a strong plate of glass, or one of tin or copper, or a thin piece of board, pressing the plate (of whatever sort) gently with the hand on every part. Raise the plate by lifting up one end, and it will be found veined in every direction by the adhe- siveness of the size ; immediately lay the plate, thus prepared, on the silk, linen, or other article, and with the hand again gently press on every part of the plate, which will vein or marble the silk, &c., with the same figures as were on the sized plate. If the plate of glass (which is preferable, but exceptionable on account of its brittleness) be not pressed too hard, a second impression, with a beautiful sort of smaller-sized veins, may be had from the first colouring ; and, if two different colours are desired on the same surface, there needs only are petition of the pro- cess with the size, containing staining ingre- dients and the other favourite colouring sub- stances. A neat sort of tortoiseshell appearance, and a great variety of expressive figures, may be produced in this way, as also by various actions of the fingers upon the plate, before the size loses its moisture, and likewise by many times folding the silk, linen, or other material of flexible texture. PAPER, TRACING. Copying Paper. PAPERING ROOMS. We take pride in selecting suitable and particular colours for each sitting-room, and adapting the furniture to its style and requirements. This, as regards furniture, is a necessary distinction; and in large houses, and with large means, variety is un- objectionable in every department; but in small houses the effect is extremely good when the sitting-rooms, passage, staircase, &c., are paperedPAP PAP [ 296 ] en suite. It gives an air of unpretending simplicity to the cottage and small residence ; Las a very neat, snug, uncommon appearance ; and is, we think, more pleasiug to the eye, when doors are thrown open, than a succession of strong contrasts in a small space. In small rooms papers of small patterns are most suitable: for a general colour some quiet shade of green is agreeable, and a running, boweiy kiud of pattern is pretty and unostentatious. Large, rambling, staring patterns should be avoided, indeed, however large the rooms may be; and strong, powerful discords in colours are far from being pleasing in their effect, or an evi- dence of good taste in their selection. Rich, warm colours look best in dining-rooms ; light, dressy papers in drawing-rooms ; but in small residences, where the second apartment is the family sitting-room, the paper should be selected of a simple, quiet pattern, sufficiently light to require no extra candles, and yet not so gay as might be appropriate in a room designed chiefly for company. The colour of a room has much influence on the artificial light. A pair of candles that give pleasant light in one apartment will be insuffi- cient in another of a similar size, yet a different paper; consequently, it is always advisable to see papers for rooms by candlelight, as well as by daylight, before a selection is made. Let young housekeepers attend to this. Pictures look to great advantage on walls painted pale green, and light up beautifully. No feeling of coldness is conveyed by this want of colour : in winter and in summer the coolness is de- lightful, A library, or any room containing books, is more difficult to light than others. The dark- ness of the binding has a sombre effect, and one pair of candles in the centre look very dim. Oak panelling, so beautiful in old houses, can scarcely be desirable on this account; but the delicate light oak paint, which has almost the appearance of satin-wood when well executed, is admirably adapted for doors, window shutters, beams, &c., and would also be cheerful and elegant for the panelling of rooms. The high skirting boards of former days have long been exploded, and the paper of rooms extends nearly to the floor. If hung with care and skill no finish will be required above the footboard, and round the doors, windows, &c., which of course diminishes the expense of deco- rating the room. Papers are now so cheap that we may renew them at a trifling cost when soiled ; and it is a good plan to secure an extra roll or two of any paper we may choose, in case of accident, to repair a blemish. Extremely good papers, of neat and even elegant patterns, may be bought at twopence per yard, which is a great consideration for people of small means who are about to furnish a house. We have seen bedrooms hung with paper at one penny per yard, which looked quite as well on the walls as that at a higher price : this enables us to have always clean and neat-looking rooms, so essential to the appearance of a gentleman's residence. We have known ladies succeed extremely well in papering rooms themselves. The price of the paper is trifling, but it mounts up when a workman is employed. A little neatness and care are the chief requisites. As long a board as possible is required, on which to stretch the lengths of paper for pasting. Tables or boards can be placed together so as to obtain the proper length as nearly as we can. The old paper must be stripped off, and the walls of the room washed with size, and allowed to dry, before the papering process begins. A paste brush, a large pan of paste, and a large pair of scissors, are the implements required. Paper- hangers' paste is made of the following mate- rials :—8 lbs. of flour, seven quarts of water, I oz. of alum, and 1 oz. of resin finely powdered. Mix the flour with some of the water whilst cold, breaking all the lumps, and beating it quite fine. Have the remainder of the water boiling, and the alum dissolved in it; then pour in the flour and water, add the resin, keep it stirred, and let it hoil for a few minutes. The lengths of paper must be cut- as correctly as pos- sible, and, when spread with paste, they must be held even with the top of the room, and allowed to fall into the proper position with the length that has been previously laid on, before they are fixed and pressed against the wall. For this purpose a pair of steps or a table must be used to raise the fair paper-hanger to the proper height. Of course, it is only small rooms and passages that can be thus done by a lady's hand ; but it is so useful sometimes to be able to achieve these little domestic affairs, that it is quite within our province to know how to do them if they ought to be done. A lady should never be " above" (as it is called) doing any- thing that is not sinful, or unwomanly, or mean. Paper in imitation of oak, either dark or light, has a very good effect in halls and passages, and even in rooms. It is cool, and clean, and neat, and, when good of its kind, almost deceives the eye. The walls of halls and dining-rooms are frequently painted: this is, of course, most durable, if care is taken to avoid scratches or chippings. Nothing looks worse than walls broken by the sharp corners of furniture or boxes, which careless persons are very apt to strike against them when moving them in a room, or up and down stairs. Painted walls can always be cleaned by washing with soap and water, and drying with clean cloths, which makes theraPAR PAR [ 297 ] look fresh and wholesome, however dirty they may have become; but if they are painted in distemper this cannot be done. Walls are frequently injured by the insertion of nails for suspending pictures. This should never be per- mitted on any account whatever : the nails may be so placed in connection with the cornice as to avoid disfiguring the walls, and pictures may be hung with perfect ease, by means of ribbon or cord, in any required position. Walls per- forated by nails have a most slovenly appearance, and betray a total want of taste and care. Even in papered rooms nails should be placed close to the cornice, if there is one, or so near the ceiling as to injure the walls in the least possible degree. Pictures should not be allowed to rest against the walls : small pieces of wood or slices of cork should be fixed behind them, on opposite sides, to allow of the free admission of air; and they should occasionally be carefully raised, and the space behind them dusted, to prevent tlie accumulation of cobwebs and dust. Light-coloured papers are best for bedrooms; they look clean and cheerful. Jfothing that is dark and dingy should be chosen where light and cleanliness are so essential; and dark papers sometimes give the idea of dirt, when it is far from being the case. Closets—especially where dresses hang.—should be papered too: the lighter the colour of the paper the more easily are dust and cobwebs detected. In unpapered closets chinks harbour spiders, and bits of mortar break away; but whgn papered they aj^'e neat and clean. PARALYSIS. See Apoplexy and Palsy, PARCHMENT. To facilitate writing on this roughen it with fine sand paper, or rub its surface with chalk or whiting. PAREGORIC ELIXIR. See Elixir, Paeegokic. PARFAIT AMOUR (1). This very agi-eeable cordial is thus prepared :—Soak for seven days the peels of twelve lemons in two gallons of rectified spirit of wine; then add one quart of water, and distil over gently two gallons. Add to these their weight of simple syrup, and a little powdered cochineal tied up in a muslin bag to impart colour. PARFAIT AMOUR (2). Take very fine fresh cedrats, pare them very thin, and infuse them, with \ oz. of fine cinnamon and 4 ozs. of coriander, in three gallons of strong brandy and a quart of water for a week or ten days, when distil it in the bain-marie. This quantity of brandy, if good, will yield two gallons and half a pint of spirit. Dissolve 3^ lbs. of sugar in seven pints of river water, cover it with cochi- neal, then add it to the spirit; filter and tottle it. PARFAIT AMOUR SOUFFLfi. Rub upon 1 lb. of loaf sugar the zests of two lemons and two large cedrats, scraping off' the surface as it becomes coloured; infuse this sugar irt nine glasses of boiling hot milk, with the addi- tion of a dozen cloves, for half an hour. Strain the infusioti through a napkin, mix it with the usual ingredients, and finish as directed. PARFAIT AMOUR, TRANSPARENT JELLY OF, Pare the rinds of two lemons and a cedrat as thin as possible, and infuse them, with half a dozen cloves bruised, in a boiling syrup made with 12 drachms of sugar. Add a little cochineal to make it of a delicate rose colour. When cold mix with the infusion half a glass of kirschwasser, filter, and put 1 oz, of isinglass to it. PARLIAMENT CAKES. Put into a sauce- pan 2 lbs. of treacle, and when it boils add \ lb. of butter, and pour it upon 2 lbs, of flour ; add a little alum, a bit of pearlash about the size of a nut, and 1 oz. of ginger; work it well with the hand till quite smooth, and let it stand a day and a night; then roll it out very thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. PARSLEY, FRIED. Pick some parsley (but not very fine), wash it well, and put it on a sieve to drain. After the fish, croquettes, &c., are fried, while the fat is very hot, put in the parsley, stir it about with a cullender spoon for a minute, and then spread it out on a sheet of paper. This is genei'ally used for croquettes or fried fish. PARSLEY SAUCE. Take a handful of parsley, and having washed and picked it, pound it well; put it into a stewpan with some good cullis, set it on the fire, and let it simmer for a quarter of an hour; then strain it, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, a liaison, and a little lemon juice. PARSNIP FRITTERS. Boil six parsnips till tender; then skin and mash thein ; mix them with one or two eggs well beaten, and two tea- spoonsful of wheat flour. Make them up in small cakes, and fry them in a little lard or beef gravy, made boiling hot before the cakes are put in. A little salt should be added to the lard or gravy. PARSNIP WINE. To every 4 lbs. of parsnips, cleaned and quartered, put one gallon of water; boil them till quite tender; drain them through a sieve, but do not bruise them, as no remedy would clear them afterwards; pour the liquor into a tub, and to each gallop ' add 3 lbs. of loaf sugar and ^ oz. of crude tartar. When cooled to the temperature of 75° put in a little new yeast, let it stand four days in a warm room, and then turn it. PARSNIPS, BOILED. Let them boil in plenty of water with salt till tender, and thenPAR PAR [ 298 ] serve them on a dish by themselves ; or, when boiled, cut them in slices, and toss them up in a good bit of butter. Thej are generally eaten with salt fish. PARSON'S VENISON. Bone a shoulder or neck of mutton, and lay it into a marinade [see Venison, Mock) for forty-eight hours ; make a nice farce of what is picked from the bones, with any addition of meat and oysters ; or small mushrooms may be mixed in the manner of perigeaux; wash it over with egg, and dredge with spices and sweet herbs ; spread the farce equally over, cut off any of the unequal parts, and lay them on where it is thin, to give it a pi-oper shape; bind and stitch it well up, and roast it; or braise it in a vegetable braise, or in a marinade, with a clove of garlic; let it cool in the cloth in the liquor, put it in a cradle- spit, or on a hanging-jack, and finish it as venison Serve it with currant jelly or sauce Such methods of dressing meat are excellent, were it only for the eouveniency of being able to keep a joint fourteen days longer, as it may keep ten days hanging and in the marinade, and three or four days after the first cooking, in a proper larder, with advantage rather than injurjs and re-di'esses well in slices, and may be served in an Italian venison or ragout sauce. When meat is boned nothing can be lost, as the bones make soup, and may be cooked with, or be a braise for, the mutton. PARTRIDGE : To Caeve. The bird is cut up in the same manner as a fowl, but the skewers must be taken out before sent to the table. The wings are to be cut off in the line a, b, and the meny- thonght in that of c, d. The parts inost preferred are the wings, breast, ""^ and merrythought; but, from the smallness of the bird, the two latter are seldom divided. The wing is the best, and the tip of it is deemed most delicious by epicures. PARTRIDGE PIE. Take four partridges, and truss them for boiling. Pound in a marble mortar some shallots, parsley, the livers of the partridges, and double the quantity of bacon. Season this mixture with pepper, salt, and mace, and add thereto some fresh mushrooms, Raise the crust for the pie, and cover the bottom with seasoning; then lay the partridges thereon, but without stuffing, and put the rest of the seasoning about the sides and between the birds, lay over these some of the pounded mixture, with slices of bacon ; put on the crust, and bake it two hours. When done remove the cover, take out the bacon and fat, add a pmt of veal gravJ^ with the juice of an orange, and send it to table hot. PARTRIDGE PIE IN A DISH. Take four partridges, pick and singe them, and cut off their legs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms; lay a veal steak and a slice of ham at the bottom of the dish, and put in the partridge, with half a pint of good consomme. Line the edges of the dish with puff paste, and cover with the same; do it over with the egg, and let it bake for an hour. PARTRIDGE PIE A LA PERIGEAUX. Take half a pint of truffles for each partridge ; prepare the birds as directed above; brush, wash, and clean the truffles, and cut them with 'a turnip cutter into pieces all of one size ; make a gratin, adding the dressings of the truffles ; proceed in every way as directed above; stuff the partridges, mixing the turned truffles with the gratin, and finish the pie as the foregoing, being the same with the addition of the truffles. It is excellent made with mushrooms instead of truffles. No bones should be left in standing pies, not only on account of waste, but, from digging them up, they become unpresentable, and are spoiled by the admission of the air. PARTRIDGE PIE, STANDING. Make about 6 lbs. of raised paste, wrap it in a damp cloth, and set it aside. Take five partridges, which pick and bone; weigh the meat, and to each pound put ^ lb. of spiced salt; cut the meat from two wild rabbits, of which take ] J lb. ; mince this with 2.^ lbs. of fat bacon, then put both these articles into a mortar, and pound them with 8 drachms of spiced salt, two yolks and one whole egg, a shallot minced and blanched, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mushrooms, and two of truffles, all well minced ; rub this farce through a quenelle sieve, and mix it in a pan with 1 lb. of truffles cut into dice, and a table-spoonful of veloute or Espagnole. Cut 1 lb. of fat bacon into small lardons, which roll in 4 drachms of spiced salt, two spoonsful of parsley, mushrooms, and truffles, all shred small. With some of these lard the partridges inside, so that the lardons may not penetrate the skin, and with the remainder lard a noix of veal. PARTRIDGE SOUP. Take ofif the legs, with the whole of the back-bone, of as many partridges as you have occasion for; skin the breast and wings without separating them, re- move what fat there may be upon them, and let them lie about half an hour in cold water. Pound the flesh of the other parts in a marble mortar with two anchovies, then put the same into a stewpan, with sufficient veal to make a good gravy in proportion to the number of thePAR PAR [ 299 ] partridges, adding to it the oones from which the flesh has been taken, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, some celery and turnips cut small, the soft part of a roll grated, and water enough to cover the rest of the ingredients. Stew all these till the juice is extracted, as well from the meat as the vegetables; then strain it through a sieve, and skim off the fat. Put this soup into a stewpan, with the white meat of the birds, and stew it for half an hour; thicken it ten minutes before serving with some flour and cream ; season with salt and white pepper, and it is ready for the table. PARTRIDGES : To Boil. Fifteen minutes will be sufficient, but they must be put into plenty of water, and boiled quickly. To a quarter of a pint of cream add a little fresh butter, stir the whole one way till melted, pour it over the birds, and serve them up. PARTRIDGES : Tq Choose. When they are young the bill is of a dark colour, and their legs yellowish. When fresh the vent is firm; but this part will look greenish when stale. The plumage on the breast of the hen is light; that on the cock is tinged with red. PARTRIDGES: To Hash. Roast two or three partridges ; take off the flesh, but without the skin or sinews ; hash it very fine, break the bones, put the whole into a stewpan, with four large spoonsful of Spanish sauce and two of veal stock. When hot pass it through a sieve, reduce it to half the substance, take it off, and set aside part for the hash when it is to be served; put into the remainder the minced meat, with pepper, nutmeg, and a little butter, and mix the hash well. Dish, glaze, and garnish with fried bread and poached eggs. PARTRIDGES : To Roast. These are to be trussed in the same manner as pheasants, but the custom of tucking the legs under each other gives trouble to the carver. They will take about fifteen minutes to roast before a good fire Before you take them up baste them with butter, shake a little fliour and salt over them, put the gravy into the dish, and serve up the birds with the same sauce as for pheasants. If partridges are to be served longer than they will keep undressed, you may half roast them, or make a pie of them. PARTRIDGES : To Stew. Truss them as for the spit, stuff the craws, and lard down both sides of the breast; roll a lump of butter in pepper, salt, and beaten mace, and put it into the bellies; sew up the vents, and put them into a pan, with a quart of gravy, a spoonful of Madeira wine, as much catsup, a tea-spoonful of lemou pickle, half as much mushroom powder, one anchovy, half a lemon, and a sprig of sweet marjoram; cover all closely, and stew them half an hour; then take out the birds, and thicken the gravy; give it a boil, and pour it over the partridges, laying round them artichoke bottoms boiled and cut in quarters, and the yolks of four hard eggs. Woodcocks may be done in the same manner. PARTRIDGES: To Truss. Partridges are trussed in exactly the same way as pheasants. PARTRIDGES WITH ANCHOVY. Put two anchovies into the body of each partridge, and lay the birds in a stewpan, with bacon, peeled tomatoes, or juice of bitter orange, salt, pepper, and a sprig of parsley. When they are done take out the anchovies, and pour over the dish the gravy in which the partridges have been cooked. PARTRIDGES, BOUDINS OF. Having made the boudins of quenelles of partridges, put them with a little salt into a well-buttered stewpan ; cover them with boiling water, poach, and then drain them. When cold dip them into an omelet, then into crumbs of bread, and fry them. Di'ain the boudins thoroughly, and serve •yvith an Italienne. The boudins may also be broiled, in which case they should be dipped in yolks of eggs, rolled in bread crumbs, im- mersed in warmed butter, breaded again, and then broiled slowly. PARTRIDGES IN BREAD. Take a nice, shaped loaf of about I lb. weight; make a hole at one end, through whicli take out all the crumb; rub the crust over with a little butter or lard, and set it in the oven for a few minutes to dry; fill it with minced partridge [see Partridges, Minced), and put tlie loaf, bottom upward?*, into a stewpan ; add two tea-spoonsful of veal blond, with any other garnish you please; let it remain on the fire till the bread is soft enough to allow a straw to penetrate it; then take it out, and dish it with the same round. PARTRIDGES, BROILED. Take five partridges, cut them in halves, trim and dip them in melted butter, and bread them twice ; a quarter of an hour before dinner broil them witli sauce aii diable. PARTRIDGES, CHARTREUSE OF. Take a middling-sized cabbage, cut it in half, and blanch it; in a few minutes take it out, drain and press out all the water. When cold tie it up with two partridges, properly trussed and larded; cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of bacon, on which place the cabbage, two servelas, six sausages, two carrots, and two onions, season with pepper and salt, lay more slices over, and set it on a gentle fire. While it is cooking cut some turnips, carrots, and onions into thin slices, as nearly of a size as you can. PARTRIDGES, CUTLETS OF. Take tho fillets of six partridges, and having removedPAR PAS r' 300 1 the skin, beat them •with the handle of the knife ; then take the pinion-bones, scrape and thrust them into the ends of the fillets. Melt a sufBcient quantity of butter in a frying-pan, put in the fillets, sprinkle them with a little salt, and brown them lightly. Having drained the fillets, let the butter cool a little, and add to it the yolks of two eggs; dip your fillets in this, bread and place them on a gridiron over hot ashes, and colour both sides. Dish them en couronne, and serve with a clear reduced fumet or sauce au diahle. PARTRIDGES A L'ESPAGNOLE. Put \ lb. of butter, the juice of a lemon, a little pepper, and a slice of ham in a stewpan ; add the partridges, and set them on a slow fire that they may not take colour. In a little while put them in six ladlesful of Espagnole, half a bottle of white wine, a bay leaf, parsley, scal- lions, and a clove. When these have simmered three quarters of an hour take out the birds, lay them in a dish, and having cleared away the fat, and reduced the sauce to half, strain it over and serve. PARTRIDGES, GELATINE OF. Take all the meat of a small leveret; put aside the fillets, of which make a scallop; weigh the re- mainder of the meat, and mince it with double its weight of fat bacon and \ lb. of ham. When mixed add a sufficient quantity of salt and the yolk of an egg. Bone three fine partridges, spread them open on a napkin, make them of as equal thickness as you can by paring away the thicker parts, and laying pieces on those which are thinner; season them well with the spiced salt, put on each a sixth part of the farce, spread this all over their surface, and lay on it three truffles cut in halves, which make six pieces for every bird wrap each of these pieces in a bit of pork caul, and in the space between place some of the scallop of leveret; season, and lay the remainder of the farce over. Sew up the partridges in their original form, wrap each in slices of bacon, and then in a linen cloth ; tie them up, and place them in a stewpan lined with bacon ; put in the bones of the leveret and partridges, four onions, four carrots, a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, bay leaf, basil, four cloves, two calf's feet, a sufficient quantity of consomme to cover the surface of the gelatine, a glass of dry Madeira, and two . dessert-spoonsful of old brandy; cover the > whole with a buttered paper, set it on a • brisk fire, and let it simmer gently for two hours: at the end of that time take it off. When nearly cold drain it, and when quite so remove the wrappers, trim the birds lightly, and glaze them; put them properly on a dish, ornament them, and then dish with jelly accord- ing to your taste. PARTRIDGES, MINCED. Take the fillets from eight roasted partridges, which mince and put into a saucepan; make a light roux, in which put the livers and lights of the birds, a bay leaf, a clove, three shallots, and a little sage; give them a few turns, and then add two large glasses of stock ; reduce the sauce to half; strain and put it to the mince, stirring till it is thick and smooth; make it hot, but not boiling. Serve it with fried bread, and garnish your dish with either poached or hard eggs. PARTRIDGES, POTTED. Let your par- tridges be thoroughly cleaned, and then season _ them with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt in fine powder. Rub every part well, lay them in a pan with the breast downwards, packing the birds as closely as possible, and put plenty of butter over them; then cover the pan with a coarse flour paste, put a paper over that closely down, and bake. When cold put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. PARTRIDGES, QUENELLES OF. Take the skin and sinews from three young partridges; mince and pound them well together; rub it through a sieve, and mix it with equal quantities of panada and calf's udder. Pound all three together till thoroughly incorporated, then add one yolk and two whole eggs, season to your taste, and poach as usual. PARTRIDGES, SALMIS OF. Take four roasted partridges, cut them in pieces as neatly as possible, and put them into a stewpan; bruise the remnants, and put them into another saucepan, with six ladlesful of Espagnole, six shallots, a glass of white wine, a little parsley, a bay leaf, a glass of stock, pepper, and salt; set this on a brisk fire, and when reduced to half strain it over the partridges ; then make the whole hot, but do not let it boil. Dish your salmis, dip some fried or toasted bread in the sauce, and lay it on the top. PARTRIDGES WITH TRUFFLES. Pre- pare three or four partridges with truffles in the inside the same as directed for Pheasant with Teuffles, only, instead of roasting, stew them in a good braise ; then, having a few truffles well pre- pared, and mixed in good brown sauce, squeeze in a lemon, and when very hot pour the whole over the partridges, and serve. PASSIONS. Passions operate upon the body either suddenly, or slowly and gradually. Sudden death or imminent danger of life may be the consequence of the former; a gradual decline and consumption that of the latter. The passions, as such, may be aptly divided into two principal classes—those of an agreeable and of a disagreeable nature. Men of strong imagina- tion chiefly suffer from passions of the violent kind, while those of more understanding andPAS PAS t 301 I less fancy are subject to slow emotions of the mind. Indolent persons, whose sensations are dull, are less passionate than those who combine acute feelings and a lively imagination with a clear understanding. The greatest minds are generally the most impassioned. All passions, of whatever kind, if they rise to a high and violent degree, are of a dangerous tendency: bodily disease, nay, death itself, may be their concomitant effects. Fatal apoplexies have frequently followed sudden terrors. Cata- lepsy and epileptic fits sometimes accompany immoderate affliction or distressing anxiety. Hypochondriasis, hysterics, and habitual dejec- tion may, indeed, arise from a variety of physical causes ; but they are as frequently generated by : the passions or sufferings of the mind alone in individuals otherwise healthy. ; Joy is that state of the mind in which it feels extraordinary pleasure—in which it enjoys a high degree of contentment and happiness. The ^activity of the whole machine is enlivened by it; tbe eyes sparkle; the action of the heart and arteries is increased, the circulation of all the fluids is more vigorous and uniform ; it facilitates the cure of diseases in general, and forwards convalescence. The different degrees of this affection are gaiety, cheerfulness, mirth, exulta- tion, rapture, and ecstasy. Habitual joy and serenity, arising from the perfection, rectitude, and due subordination of our faculties, and their lively exercise on objects agreeable to them, constitute mental or rational happiness. * Evacuations which are moderate, a proper state of perspiration, and all food of an aperient quality and easy digestion, may be considered as icontributing to a joyful state of mind. A pure, •dry air, and everything that invigorates the func- tions of the body, on the well-being of which the serenity of mind greatly depends, has a tendency to obviate stagnations. Joy also is more salu- tary when combined with other moderate affec- tions, and the various bodily and mental exer- tions are then successfully performed. A moderate degree of joy removes the noxious particles of the body, and in this respect is equal, nay, superior in salubrity to bodily exer- cise ; but excess and too long duration of this passion attenuate and carry away not only the superfluous, but likewise many useful fluids, and more than the natural functions can restore. Hence the too violent motion and dissipation of humours are attended with relaxation and heaviness; and sleep also is prevented, which alone can re-invigorate the nerves that have suffered from too great tension. On this account the celebrated Sanctorius dissuades persons from gambling who cannot control their passions, because the joy which accompanies their success is followed by sleepless nights and great ab straction of perspirable matter. Sudden and excessive joy may prove extremely hurtful, on account of the great waste of energy and the lively vibration of the nerves, whioh are the more noxious after long rest. Nay, it may become dangerous by causing expansion or laceration of the vessels, spitting of blood, fevers, deprivation of understanding, swooning, and even sudden death. If we have anticipated any joyful event the body is gradually prepared to undergo the emotions connected with it. For this reason we ought to fortify ourselves with the neces- sary share of firmness to meet joyful as well as disastrous things. Laughter is sometimes the eff'ect or conse- quence of joy, and it frequently arises from a sudden disappointment of the mind, when directed to an object which, instead of being serious and important, terminates unexpectedly in insignificance. Within the bounds of modera- tion, laughter is a salutary emotion ; for, as a deep inspiration of air takes place, which is succeeded by a short and frequently repeated expiration, the lungs are filled with a great quantity of blood, and gradually emptied, so that its circulation through the lungs is thus beneficially promoted. It manifests a similar effect on the organs of digestion. Pains in the stomach, colics, and several complaints that could not be relieved by other means, have been frequently removed by this. In many cases, ■where it is purposely raised, laughter is of excellent service, as a remedy which agitates and enlivens the whole frame. Experience also furnishes us with many remarkable instances in which obstinate ulcers of the lungs and the liver, that had resisted every effort of medicine, were happily opened and cured by a fit of laughter artificially excited. Hope is the anticipation of joy, or the pre- sentiment of an expected good. It is attended with all the favourable effects of a fortunate event, without possessing any of its physical disadvantages, because the expectation of happi- ness does not affect us so excessively as its enjoyment. Besides, it is not liable to those interruptions from which no human pleasure is exempt; it is employed principally with ideal or imaginary objects, and generally keeps within the bounds of moderation. Lastly, the sense of happiness contained in hope far exceeds the satis- faction received from immediate enjoyment, and consequently it has a more beneficial influence on health than good fortune realised. Although hope is, in itself, merely ideal, and presents its flattering and embellished images to the fancy in a borrowed light, yet it is, nevertheless, the only genuine source of human happiness. Hope, therefore, is the most favourable state of mind to health, and has frequently preserved thePAS [ 802 ] PAS serenity, and prolonged the existence, of those whose situation appeared to be foi-lorn. Love, viewed in its most favourable light, presents to us a picture of permanent joy, and is attended with all the good effects of that passion. It enlivens the pulsations of the heart and arteries ; promotes the operations of the different functions of the body ; and it has frequently been observed that a strong attachment to a beloved object has cured inveterate disorders which had resisted all medicinal powers, and which had been considered incurable. The changes which this passion can effect on the powers and the whole disposition of the mind are equally remarkable. For the extraordinary exertions made to obtain possession of the object of our wishes excite a sensation and conscious- ness of strength which enable man not only to undertake, but also to perform the noblest and most heroic actions. In that exalted state he sets all difficulties at defiance, and surmounts every obstacle. The most dangerous effect of love is jealousy : this pitiable passion, like disappointed love and pride, is very liable to terminate in madness. In sanguine temperaments the excess of this affec- tion is productive of consequences most prejudi- cial to the body : their fluids are impelled to a more rapid circulation, and they secrete, with preternatural velocity, that valuable fluid which stimulates them to venery. Such persons are much addicted to ease, pleasure, and every species of gratification which suits their irritable nerves : their skin and muscles being soft, and accessible to every stimulus, and their fluids thin and rarefied, it may be easily conceived that their humours circulate with rapidity to the parts of generation, and that their nerves are thus constantly excited to desire. The dreadful consequences are but too frequently visible in young persons, whether single or married, who have too early indulged in such excesses. Hence originate tabes dorsalis, wasting of the limbs, spitting of blood, pulmonary consumption, hectic fever, and the whole train of indefinable nervous diseases, so called for want of more proper names, besides a host of other disorders, mostly incurable. Sorrow is the reverse of joy, and operates either suddenly or slowly, according as the cause of it is of greater or less importance and duration. The lowest degree of it is called concern; when it arises from the disappoint- ment of hopes and endeavours it is vexation; when silent and thoughtful it settles into pen siveness or sadness; when it is long indulged in, so as to prey upon and possess the mind, it becomes habitual, and grows into melancholy. Sorrow increased and continued is called grief; when agitated by hopes and fears it is distrac- tion ; when all these are overwhelmed by sor- row it settles into despair. The highest degreo of sorrow is called agony. Sorrow seldom proves suddenly fatal; for, though it injures the nervous energy, it does not hasten the circulation of the blood with the rapidity of other passions, but rather retards its course. Yet there are examples of its speedy and fatal effects. Sorrow, like a slow poison, corrodes the powers cf the mind and the body; it enfeebles the whole nervous system ; the heart beats more slowly; the circulation of the blood and other fluids becomes more inert; they fre- quently stagnate in their channels, and generate evils more serious than sadness itself. Farther, the face at first turns pale, then yellow and tumid; the body and the mind are worn out; the course of the blood through the lungs must be assisted by frequent sighing; the appetite and digestion become vitiated, and thus arise obstructions, hysteric and hypochondriacal com- plaints, and at length consumption, which ia inevitable destruction to the body, frequently in the prime of life, and in spite of the healing art. Persons who indulge themselves in peevishness very soon lose their appetite, together with tlia power of digestion; their mouth has a bitter taste ; flatulency, colic, spasms, faintings, and the long list of stomachic complaints necessarily follow. Men become subject to the blind hemor- rhoids, and women to suppression or other irregularities of the menses, costiveness, or chronic diarrhoea. The bile, on account of tha retarded circulation, either grows thick, and pro- duces indurations of the liver, or it is mixed with the blood, and generates jaundice or dropsy. Such persons in time become very irritable and peevish; and, with the frequent return of grief, the mind at length is totally employed in con- templating its wretched situation, so that it finds new food for increasing it in almost every object it beholds. Hence the whole imagination is by degrees obscured, and the most usual con- sequences of it are the deepest melancholy, suc- ceeded either by a nervous fever or insanity, sometimes cancer, and at other times a speedier dissolution, by what is then called a broken heart. Solitude and idleness are not only the remote causes of many passions, but also support and foster them without exception : they collect and fix the attention of the mind on the favourite objects, and make us reflect the more keenly on the causes of the passions the less we are inter- rupted in these fond reveries by other sensa- tions. Though it certainly is not in our power to avert grief, from which even sages and heroes are not always exempt, yet we can do much to alleviate it by denying ourselves the enjoyment which this indulgence in certain situations affords.[ 303 ] PAS PAS JMoral arguments of consolation, if properly adapted to the capacity and mental disposition of the sufferer, have in these cases generally a powerful influence. Those whose minds are af- fected by sorrowought to avoid as muchas possible the company of pei-sons who are fond of relating their calamities, and recounting their misfor- tunes. On the contrary, whatever has a tend- ency to cheer the mind, and to divert it from disagreeable objects, ought to be instantly re- sorted to. Of this nature are company, busi- ness, cheerful music, and the social affections. The body should be frequently rubbed with dry cloths, pei-fumed with amber, vinegai", sugar, and the like ; the lukewarm bath may be em- ployed with great advantage, and, if circum- stances permit, the patient should remove to a •warmer and drier climate. If temperately used a weak and mild wine is ot excellent service; but an immoderate indulgence in this palatable drink may disorder the stomach by the quan- tity of acid it produces. Weeping generally accompanies sorrow if it be not too intense : tears are the anodynes of grief, and ought not to be restrained by adults. We feel, in weeping, an anxiety and contraction of tVie breast which impede respiration, probably because a superfluous quantity of air is then contained in the lungs, which is forcibly expelled by sobbing. By this obstruction in breatliing, the blood, which ought to be reconducted from the head, accumulates in the lungs, and conse- quently in the veins: hence arise redness, heat of the face, and a flow of tears, which are regulated in quantity by the degree of sadness that produced tliem. Their principal good effects are, that they prevent the danger to be appre- hended from grief, by diminishing the spasmodic motions in the breast and head, and by restoring regularity in respiration, as well as in the circu- lation of the blood: hence persons find them- selves much relieved after a plentiful flow of tears, which, however, is extremely prejudicial to the eyes. Grief arising from an ungratified desire of returning home and seeing our relations is productive of a disease very common among the Swiss, and which sometimes, after a short state of melancholy, trembling of the limbs, and other symptoms apparently not very dangerous, hurries the unhappy sufferer to the grave, but more frequently throws him into a consumption, and generates the most singular whims and fancies. Persuasions, punishments, medicines, are here of no service ; but a suddenly revived hope, or a gratification of the patient's wishes, has a powerful effect, provided that an in- curable consumption or insanity has not already taken place. Envy arises from self-love or self-interest, particularly in such individuals as have neglected to cultivate their own talents, or to whom nature has denied certain qualifications of body or mind which they cannot avoid seeing in others. It is principally excited when they are witnesses of the prosperity of persons who possess such superior endowments. People of a narrow mind, and those of a confined education, are most subject to this mean passion. Envy deprives those addicted to it of an appetite for food, of sleep, of every enjoyment, and disposes them to febrile complaints ; but, in general, it is hurtful to those only who brood over and indulge in this corrosive passion. There are, however, vast numbers who show their envy at almost every event productive of good fortune to others, and who yet often attain a very great age. Joy at the misfortunes or the discovered foibles of others, self-love, calumny against their neigh- bours, satire, and ridicule, are the never-failing resources of their malignant dispositions. Medi- cines cannot cure a disease so odious ; education and improvement of morals are its only anti- dotes. Envious persons commonly give too much importance to trifles : hence they ought to be instructed to employ themselves in more useful pursuits; to judge of things according to their true value, and to accustom themselves to a philosophic calmness ; they ought to learn how to overcome, or at least to moderate, their selfish- ness ; to counterbalance their expectations with their deserts, and to equal or surpass others in their merits rather than in their pretensions. Fear, or Anxiety, is the apprehension of evil. Fear weakens the powers of the mind, relaxes and congeals every part of the human body, retards the pulse, hinders respiration, obstructs the menses, and sometimes also perspi- ration. Hence it produces tremor and dread ; frequently, too, it excites perspiration, since it disorganises everything linked to the body by means of the nerves. It is apt to occasion diarrhoea, and, in some individuals, an involun- tary discharge of semen. Some persons of a relaxed habit are, by great fear, thrown into a perspiration resembling the agonies of death, and others cannot retain their urine. Timorous persons are more readily infected by epidemical disorders than those possessed of courage, be- cause fear not only weakens the energy of the heart, but at the same time pi'omotes the absorp- tion by the skin, so as to render the timid more liable to contagion. In short, fear increases the malignity of diseases, changes their natural course, aggravates them by a thousand incidental circumstances, so that they resist all remedies, and suppresses the efforts of nature, so as to terminate in speedy dissolution. The usual consequences of violent and superstitious fear, produced by a disordered imagination, are erup-[ 304 ] PAS PAS tions in the face, swellings, cutaneous inflamma- tions, and painful ulcers. In some instances, too, fear has produced palsy, loss of speech, epilepsy, and even madness itself. Bashfdlness is an inferior degree of fear, which retains the blood in the external vessels of the breast and the whole countenance. Plence, in females of a delicate constitution and transparent skin, we observe the blush not only overspread the face, but also the bosom. If carried to a greater degree it is attended with dangerous consequences, particularly in the in- dividuals before mentioned: it may stop the flux of the menses, and prove fatal if attended with a fever. A very high degree of bashfulness may generate a dangerous fever even in men, though, from modern education, instances of this latter kind become every day more rare. Excessive bashfulness closely borders on fear: if it does not proceed from vice or corrupted mannei's it may be corrected by social inter- course with persons of a cheerful disposition. Terror, or the dread of an evil surprising us before we are able to prevent it, is of all passions the most destructive and the most diflBcult to be avoided, because its operation is unforeseen and instantaneous. To shun all occasions that may produce it is, perhaps, the only remedy. Persons who are feeble, and possessed of much sensibility, are most subject to terror, and likewise most affected by it. Its effects are a sudden and violent contraction of almost every muscle that serves to perform the voluntary motions. It may farther occasion polypous concretions of the heart, inflammations of the external parts of the body, spasms, and swoons. At the same time, it may stop salutary evacuations, particularly per- spiration and hemorrhages ; it may repel ulcers and cutaneous eruptions, to the great detriment of health and danger of life. The menses are sometimes instantaneously suppressed, palpita- tion of the heart, trembling of the limbs, and, in a more violent degree, convulsions and epileptic fits, or a general catalepsy and sudden death, are the subsequent effects of terror. As terror quickly compels the blood to retreat from the skin to the internal parts, it forcibly checks the circulation of all the fluids. If anger accompany terror there not unfrequently arise violent hemorrhages, vomiting, and apoplexy. Terror has been suddenly known to turn the hair grey. An inattentive and injudicious mode of educating children often lays the foundation of this infirmity, which is difficult to be eradicated at a more advanced age. Persons under the influence of this passion should be treated like those who suffer from any other spasmodic con- traction. Tea, a little wine, or spirits and water may be given to them ; vinegar, lavender drops, or spirits of hartshorn may be held to the nostrils ; warm bathing of the feet and emollient injections may be of advantage; and lastly, tl.e ditferent evacuations ought to be promoted; but, above all, the mind ought to be duly composed. Anger arises from a sense or apprehension of suffered injustice, and an impetuous desire of revenge. Its diflerent degrees depend upon the impressions made by the injury, or the ardour of the disposition to vengeance. In the former case, namely, when the sense of injustice is the prevalent feeling, anger affects us like terror, and produces spasmodic contractions and stag- nations in the liver and its vessels, sometimes so considerable as to change the bile into a con- crete mass : from this cause alone often arise the gravel and stone of the bladder. The more usual consequences of anger, if joined to afflic- tion, are paleness of the face, palpitation of the heart, faltering of the tongue, trembling of the limbs, and jaundice. If, on the contrary, the hope of revenge be the predominant feature in anger, violent com- motions take place in the whole system; the circulation of all the fluids, as well as the pulsa- tion of the heart and arteries, is perceptily increased; the vital spirits flow rapidly but irregularly through the limbs; the muscles make uncommon efforts, while some appear almost palsied; the face becomes red ; the eyes sparkle ; and the whole body feels elated and inclined to motion. This species of anger is by far the most common. Anger and terror are, therefore, particularly injurious to the tender bodies of infants, who are possessed of extreme sensibility, easily af- fected, and consequently much exposed to the influence of these passions, on account of the proportionably greater size of their nerves, and their inability to restrain passion by the in- fluence of reason. They are liable to be so severely affected that they may die suddenly in convulsions, or retain during life an imbecile body and mind, liable to be terrified upon the slightest occasion. When children are apt to ciy in sleep, when they start up and make motions indicating fear or terror, it must not be always ascribed to actual pain, but frequently to dreams, which fill their young minds with terrible images, especially if they have often been terrified while awake. All parents know how much some chil- dren are addicted to anger and malice, and how difficult it is to suppress the ebullition of these passions. Hence we ought to beware of giving the most distant encouragement to such destruc- tive emotions, for it is certain that both men and women of an irascible temper generally die of a consumption of the lungs. Persons of an irritable disposition are more frequently exposed to anger than others: they are more easily affected by every passion.[ 305 ] PAS PAS Hence the tendency to anger is particularly- visible in individuals troubled with hysterics and hypochondriasis, as well as in debilitated and disappointed men of letters. Persons of a hot and dry temperament, of strong black hair, and great muscular strength, are likewise much subject to fits of anger. A moderate degree of this passion is frequently of advantage to phlegmatic, gouty, and hypochon- driac individuals, as it excites the nerves to action; but, if too violent and raging, it dissi- pates the more volatile part of the fluids, and is productive of the most hurtful consequences. In the epileptic, scorbutic, choleric, and such as have open wounds, it causes fever, spitting of blood, convulsions, inflammations, throbbing pains in the side, jaundice, apoplexy, &c. No fluid is more affected by anger than the bile, which, by its violent influx into the duo- denum, produces a fixed spasmodic pain in the region of the navel, flatulency, vomiting, a bitter taste in the mouth, uneasiness and pressure about the pit of the stomach, and at length either obstructions or diarrhoea. Wine or other heating liquors drunk immediately after a fit of anger, and strong exercise or labour, are attended vnth consequences still more per- nicious, as are also emetics, laxatives, and blood-letting. When sadness or fear has so overpowered the heart and the understanding that all hopes of averting the apprehended evils are extinguished, the mind sinks into despair. We then see no comfort in'futurity, and our ideas of approaching miseiy become so intolerable that we think our- selves incapable to sustain it, and seek a remedy in death. There are attacks of despair and an inclination to suicide, in which people are, upon any unforeseen event, suddenly deprived of their understanding, and reduced to temporary in- sanity. This precipitate species of despair more nearly resembles terror. Others are solitary and reserved, continually reflecting on their misfor- tunes, till at length all their hopes and resolu- tion fail. Their despair, consequently, is more nearly allied to melancholy than to any other passion. A sudden fit of despair is owing to very irritable muscular fibres, which are quickly excited to the most irregular motions, and from which arises confusion in the senses and the imagination. In profoundly thoughtful and melancholy individuals the solid parts are weak- ened ; the fluids become thick, heavy, and stag- nating ; and this weakness of the solids gives them a sensation of peculiar debility. They are dispirited and dejected; their stagnating, or, at best, slowly circulating fluids, occasion in them a sense of anxiety and timidity, whence gloomy representations are but too easily impressed on VOL. II. their mind. This is very apt to be the case with persons who eat more animal than vegetable food, which produces very rich and substantial blood. PASSY WATER. To imitate this chaly- beate, dissolve in a pint of soda water 2 grains of sulphate of iron, 3 grains of common salt, 4 grains of carbonate of soda, and 2 grains of chloride of magnesium. PASTE: To Glaze in Ice. The fine yellow glaze appropriate to meat pies is given with beaten yolk of egg, which should be laid on with a paste brush or a small bunch of feathers : if a lighter colour be wished for, whisk the whole of the egg together, or mix a little milk with the yolk. The best mode of icing fruit tarts before they are sent to the oven is to moisten the paste with cold water, to sift sugar thickly upon it, and to press it lightly on with the hand; but when a whiter icing is preferred the pastry must be drawn from the oven when nearly baked| and brushed with white of egg whisked to a froth ; then, when covered with the sifted sugar, sprinkled with a few drops of water before it is put in again. This glazing answers also very well, though it takes a slight colour, if used before the pastry is baked. PASTE, BEEF-DRIPPING. Rub i lb. of clarified dripping into 1 lb. of flour, work it into a stiff paste with water, and roll it twice or thrice. This crust is best eaten hot. PASTE BEIGNET BATTER. Put some flour or ground or whole rice into just as much water as will swell it; put it under the grate or into the oven, and when it is sufficiently cooked beat it well in a mortar, adding butter and eggs in proportion to the paste. After having been finished in this manner, which is beignet paste, thin it to a batter with egg and milk; pour it over a chicken, or any nice dish of meat or fish, for a batter pastry, and bake it. Pastes may be made of any proportion of ingredients. Standing paste should be made with boil- ing water, as it gives more tenacity to the paste. PASTE, COLOURED. Mix any of the foregoing pastes with chocolate, clove, cin- namon, or pistachio paste. The clove may be coloured with beet or cochineal; the cinnamon with cochineal and saffron; and the pistachio with spinach greening, orange, saffron, cochi- neal, and lemon saffron. These pastes are beau- tiful filled with cream. If they are left open without covers they ought to have such a border as will show the colour; or if filled with whipped cream, and the covers very open, it looks well oozing through them. The colour ought to be very delicate. The cream must not be put in till they are all served.[ 306 ] PAS PAS PASTE, COMMON DUMPLING. Rub into 1 lb. of flour 6 ozs. of butter, and work it into a paste with two well-beaten eggs and a little water. This paste may be baked, a large table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar being added. PASTE, COMMON PIE. Take 1 lb. of flour, i lb. of butter, and a tea-spoonful of jeast put into a quarter of a pint of cold water. Rub half of the butter in the flour, and the other half spread on the paste, with flour dredged on it. When you have rolled the paste cut it in pieces, lay one piece upon another, and roll out three times. PASTE, CROQUANTE. Blanch 1 lb. of almonds, dry them well in a stove, and pound them to a dry paste, adding occasionally white of egg and orange flower; put the paste into a stewpan, and set it on a slow fire, putting in the sugar a little at a time, and stirring con- stantly. When the paste is sufficiently con- sistent put it in a heap on the table to cool, and then form it into cakes or any shape you please. PASTE CRUST, LIGHT PUFF. Mix 1^ lb. of flour with just water enough to make it into a paste, add a little salt, mould it lightly together, and let it lie two hours ; then roll it out, put 1 lb. of butter into the middle of it, fold the ends of the paste over, and roll it out: repeat this six times in winter, and five in summer. It should not be more than half an inch thick each time it is rolled, and a little flour dusted lightly over and under it to prevent its sticking. This is a very light and deUcate crust. PASTE FOR CUSTARDS. To i lb. of flour put J lb. of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and three spoonsful of cream; mix them up together, and let it stand for a quarter of an hour; then work it till smooth, and roll it out very thin. PASTE, FAMILY PIE. Rub i lb. of butter into i ib. of flour, and add water enough to knead it thoroughly. Another common pro- portion is i lb. of butter to 1^ lb. of flour. PASTE, FEUILLETAGE, or Fine French Puff Paste. This, when made by a good French cook, is the perfection of rich, light crust, and will rise in the oven from one to six inches in height; but some practice is, without doubt, necessary to accomplish this. In summer it is a great advantage to have ice at hand, and to harden the butter over it before it is used; the paste also, in the intervals of rolling, is improved by being laid on an oven-leaf over a vessel containing ice. Take an equal weight of good butter, free from the coarse salt which is found in some, and which is disadvantageous for this paste, and of fine, dry, sifted flour: to each pound of these allow the yolks of a couple of eggs and a small tea-spoonful of salt. Break a few small bits of the butter very lightly into the flour, put the salt into the centre, and pour on it sufficient water to dissolve it (we do not quite understand why the doing of this should be better than mixing it with flour, as in other pastes, but such is the method always pursued for it); add a little more water to the eggs, moisten the flour gradually, and make it into a very smooth paste, rather light in summer, and never exceedingly stifl', though the opposite fault in an extreme would render the crust unmanageable. Press in a soft, thin cloth all moisture from the remainder of the butter, and form it into a ball; but in doing this be careful not to soften it too much. Should it be m an unfit state for pastry, from the heat of the weather, put it into a basin, set it in a pan of water, mLxed with plenty of salt and saltpetre, and let it remain in a cool place for an hour, if possible, before it is used. When ifc is ready (and the paste should never be com- menced until it be so), roll the crust out square, and of sufficient size to inclose the butter; flatten this upon it in the centre, then fold the crust well over it, and roll it out as thin and lightly as possible, after having dredged the board and paste roller with a little flour (this is called giving it one turn); then fold it in three, give it another turn, and set it aside where it will be very cool for a few minutes ; give it two more turns in the same way, rolling it each time very lightly, but of equal thickness, and to the full length that it will reach, taking especial care that the butter does not break through the paste. Let it again be set aside to become cold; and, after it has been twice more rolled and folded in three, give it a half turn by folding it once only, and it will be ready for use. Equal weight of the finest flour and good butter; to each pound of these add the yolks of three eggs and a small spoonful of salt. Six: and a half turns to be given to the paste. PASTE, HOT (FOR Custards). Put i lb. of butter into a saucepan with a pint of water; take 2f lbs. of flour, make a hole in the middle, and when the water and butter boils pour it into the flour by degrees, stirring it with a slice till it is well mixed ; then knead with your hands till it becomes stiflf, and cover it closely with an earthen pan or bowl till cold: it is then ready for use. PASTE, HOT (for Pies). To one pint of water put 2 ozs. of butter in a saucepan ; take 2^ lbs. of flour, and break two eggs into it; when the water and butter boils stir it by degrees into the flour with a wooden slice till well mixed, vrork it with the hands till quite smooth andPAS PAS [ 307 ] stiff, then put it into an earthen pan or bowl covered closely, and set it before the fire ten or fifteen minutes. If it appears too soft dredge a little flour in it, and work it till smooth : raise your pies immediately. PASTE A LA MADELEINE. Put into a stewpan 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of powder sugar, i lb. of warmed butter, a little orange flower, and si.v eggs, or more if necessary. Mix these together well, and then pour the prepara- tion into one large or several small moulds well buttered; make them smooth at the top, and bake in a gentle oven. PASTE, MEAT, ob SAvouEr. Take 2 lbs. of fine flour, and 1J lb. of good salt butter; break the latter into small pieces, and wash it well in cold water; rub gently togetlier the butter and flour, and mix with it the yolks of three eggs beaten together with a spoon, and nearly a pint of spring water; roll it out, double it in folds three times, and it is ready. PASTE, PUFF (Good). Take 1 lb. of flour, and sift it; 1 lb. of butter, and divide it into four equal parts ; then weigh J lb. of flour to dust it with. Rub one of the quarters of butter into the pound of flour, and mix up with a very little cold water; roll out three times, adding each time a quarter of butter, and dusting with flour. When you cut off from the large roll of dough a piece for one pie, roll out the piece you cut off very thin, dust it with flour, double it in folds, and roll it the thickness of your crust. PASTE, PUFF (Rich). To 1 lb. of flour add f lb. of butter, and mix it in as little water as will make a stiff paste ; roll it out, and lay the butter on in thin slices; dredge it well with flour, double it up, roll it out thin twice, and handle it as little as possible. It is better to roll the butter in it twice. Bake it in a moderately quick oven, or it will not be light. A paste less rich may be made with 2 lbs. of flour and ^ lb. of butter; rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, two well-beaten eggs, and a little salt. Fold it up and roll it four times. PASTE PYRAMID. Make a rich puff paste, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it into five or seven pieces with scal- loped tin paste cutters which go one within another ; leave the bottom and top pieces entire, and cut a bit out of the centre of the others; bake them of a light brown upon buttered paper placed on tins. When served build them in ft pyramid, laying a different preserved fruit upon each paste, and on the top a whole apricot, with a sprig of myrtle stuck into it, or green- gages ornamented with a bunch of barberries. PASTE FOR RAISED PIES. Take 4 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, and a little salt; mix these together, adding water a little at a time, taking care not to put too much, as this paste must be made as stiff as possible. When thoroughly mixed give it two or tliree turns, roll it out, and cut it to the shape you want for your pie. Sometimes the butter is melted in warm water, and so mixed with the flour; then.it will not require so much water, and the paste will stand better; but as you work your paste, when you find it gets too cold, warm it a little. The first method of doing it is the best if intended to be eaten. PASTE, RICE (1). Mix together i lb. of sifted ground rice and ^ lb. of fresh butter; work it into a paste with cold water, dredge flour over the paste board and rolling-pin, roll out the paste, and put over it in little pieces another J lb. of butter; fold and roll it out three times, strewing each time a little flour over and under it, as also over the rolling-pin ; cover the tart, and glaze it before being baked. This paste must be eaten the day it is baked. PASTE, RICE (2). Boil in a pint of water i lb. of good rice; drain oil' the water, and pound the rice in a mortal', witli a small piece of butter and a beaten egg; then roll it out to cover any fruit tart. PASTE, SHORT (for Tarts). Take 1 lb. of flour, lay it on a .slab, and in the centre put i lb. of butter, two eggs, a very little salt, and a little water. Mix them lightly together, and continue adding more water till you find it bind. Mix it on a slab a little, and give it two turns: it is then ready for use. PASTE FOR STRINGING TARTS. Mix 1 oz. of fresh butter with your hands in ^ lb. of flour and a little cold water ; rub it between the board and your hand till it begins to string, cut it into small pieces, which roll out and draw into fine strings ; lay them across your tarts in any form you please, and bake them imme- diately. PASTE, SUET. Rub well with i lb. of fresh beef suet, chopped as finely as possible, J lb. of flour and half a tea-spoonful of salt; make it into a stiff paste with cold water, work it well, beat it with the rolling-pin, and roll it out two or three times. This paste answers for any kind of boiled fruit pudding. PASTE, SWEET. Rub into i lb. of flour 5 ozs. of butter, and the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar; add one beaten egg, and as much warm water as will make it into a paste ; roll it out thin for any kind of fruit tart, rub it over with the beaten white of an egg, and sift sugar over it. PASTE, TARTLET. Mix 1 lb. of flour with 6 ozs. of butter, 4 ozs. of sugar, 2 ozs. of almond paste, and the yolk of six eggs. Mixr 308 ] PAS PAS it with rose or orange-flower water; beat it, and make it veiy smooth; cover small tart-pans, and cut out flat or raised covers : if raised they may be baked on tart-paus turned up. These covers ought to be very open. Do not fill them till wanted, or put them into the oven with any cream or custard, all kinds of frangipanes, fried CrGSiTUS &c PASTE,' TRANSPARENT. Rub i lb. of fresh butter into i lb. of flour, sift in 1 oz. of double-refined sugar through a lawn sieve, and make it into a paste with two spoonsful of sweet ■wine and a spoonful of orange-flower water. Work it as lightly as possible, scarcely touching it, roll it out very thin, and form it into tops and bottoms for tarts. They must be baked in a very slow oven, as their beauty depends upon their whiteness. They should be kept in the pans they are baked in till used, as they are so apt to break. Fill them with sweetmeats. They will do in the mouth of the oven, as they must not have the least colour. A little lemon juice may be added. PASTILS, FUMIGATING. These are burned either to diffuse a refreshing pei'fume or to overcome ill odours. They are made as follows :—Gum benzoin, 1 oz.; balsam of tolu, J oz.; yellow sandal wood, J oz.; laudanum, i drachm ; nitre, I drachm; fine charcoal powder, 3 ozs. Mix them into a stiff paste with a solu- tion of gum tragacanth. Of this paste make small flat-based cones, and dry them thoroughly. Light the small end when required. Or, take gum benzoin, 1 oz.; cascarilla powder, 1 oz.; nitre, f oz.; myrrh in powder, J drachm; oil of nutmeg and cloves, of each 7 drops; finely powdered charcoal, 1| oz. Mix into a mass as before directed. Musk and civet should not be used, because, •when burnt, they smell disagreeably. PASTILS FOR THE MOUTH. These are used to conceal the reek of tobacco, or other ill smell of the breath. Take of extract of liquorice H oz.; oil of cloves, J drachm, oil of (Snnamon, 7 drops. Mix into a mass, and divide into one-grain pills. They are silvered for sale. .i PASTRY. The art of making paste requires aigood memory, practice, and dexterity; for it is principally from the method of mixing the various ingredients of which it is composed that paste acquires its good or bad qualities. ^ ■'Before making paste wash the hands in hot ^&.ter. Touch the paste as little as possible, and Boll it but little—the less the better. If paste b& much wetted it will be tough. nsA marble slab is better than a board to make paste on: both, together with the rolling-pin, cutters, and tins, should be kept very clean, as ihe least dust or hard paste left on either will spoil the whole. The coolest part of the house and of the day should be chosen for the process during warm weather. Flour for the finest paste should be dried and sifted, as should pounded white sugar. Butter should be added to paste in very small pieces unless otherwise directed. If fresh butter be not used, break salt butter into pieces, wash it well in spring water to cleanse it from salt, squeeze it carefully, and dry it upon a soft cloth. Fresh butter should also be well worked to get out the buttermilk. After the butter has been pressed and worked well with a wooden knife on the paste board, press it very lightly with a clean soft cloth to absorb the moisture. If good fresh butter is used it will require very little working, if any. Lard is sometimes used instead of butter, but the saving is of very trifling importance when it is considered that, although lard will make paste light, it will neither be of such good colour nor flavour as when made with butter. Dripping, especially from beef, when very sweet and clean, is often used for kitchen pies, and is, in this instance, a good substitute for butter, lard, &c. In hot weather the butter should be broken to pieces, and put into spring water or into ice ; but on no account put the paste into ice, else the butter in it will harden, and, in baking, melt and separate from the paste. The same thing happens in winter when the butter has not been suflSciently worked, and the paste is rather soft; for, though the season be favourable to the making of paste, care must be taken to work the butter sufficiently. In winter paste should be made very finn, because the butter is then so. In summer the paste should be made soft, as the butter is then the same. It is important to work up paste lightly and gradually into a uniform body, no strength nor pressure being used. It is necessary to lightly flour both sides of paste when you roll it, in order to prevent its turning grey in baking; but if much flour is sprinkled on it the paste will not be clear. Attention to the rolling out is important in making light puff paste : if it be too light it may be rolled out once or twice more than directed, as the folding mainly causes it to rise high and even. Be sure invariably to roll puff paste from you. Those who are not practised in making puff paste should work the butter in by breaking it into small pieces, and covering the paste rolled out; dredge it lightly with flour, fold over the sides and ends, roll it out very thin, add the remainder of the butter, and fold and roll as before. To insure lightness paste should be set in thaPAT PEA [ 309 ] oven as soon after it is made as possible : on tliis account the paste should not be begun to be made till the oven is half heated, which sometimes occupies an hour. If paste be left twenty minutes or more before it is baked it will become dull and heavy. Paste should be light without being greasy, and baked of a fine colour without being burnt; therefore to insure good baking requires at- tention. Puff paste requires a brisk oven ; a moderate one will best bake pies and tarts, puddings and ])iscuits. Regulation of heat according to cir- cumstances is the main point in baking. If the oven be too hot the paste, besides being burned, will not rise well; and if it be too slack the paste will be soddened, not rise, and want colour. Piaised pies require the quickest oven. When fruit pies are baked in iron ovens the syrup is apt to boil out of them: to prevent this set a few thin bricks on the bottom of the oven before it is heated, but this will not be requisite if the oven has a stone bottom. Tart tins, cake moulds, and dishes should be well buttered before baking. Articles to be baked on sheets should be placed on buttered paper. PATERASA LOZENGES. Cut off the white end from some red rosebuds, and dry them in the sun; grind 1 oz., and sift it; wet 1 lb. of sugar, and boil it to candy height; put in the juice of a lemon and the powder of roses, pour it on a nicely oiled marble slab or dish, and cut it in lozenges. The lozenges are very different from those bought in the shops. A drop of otto or essence may be added. PEA SOUP. Take the liquor in which a joint of salt beef, pork, or leg of mutton has been boiled; put it into a large saucepan, with beef bones, a knuckle of ham, a carrot or two, a leek, a little celery seed tied in a bag, and a pint of split peas ; let the whole simmer by the side of the fire for five hours. When sufficiently done rub the peas through a cullender, strain the liquor over them, season to your taste, and serve with dried mint rubbed fine, toasted or fried bread cut into dice, and Cayenne pepper. PEA SOUP, GREEN. Take a pint of old peas, and put them into a saucepan, with an equal quantity of water, 1 oz. of butter, an onion or two, some lettuce leaves, pepper, and salt; cover the saucepan closely, and let them simmer till the peas are quite soft; then rub them through a cullender, and add to the liquor moi'e water, the remainder of the lettuces, a pint of young peas, a little chopped spinach, mint, salt, pepper, some more butter, and a table-spoonful of flour; boil these also till the peas can be rubbed through a cullender, then mix them with the old peas, strain the liquor over, and serve. PEACH CREAM. The peaches must be prepared the same as for making jelly, but, instead of running them through a sieve, rub the whole through a tammy, and make use of less isinglass : put it all at once in the mould, which must be set in ice. PEACH FRITTERS. Take a dozen small ripe peaches ; pare and cut them in halves; soak them in half a glass of brandy and two spoonsful of sugar, on which has been rubbed the rind of a lemon; in two hours' time take them out, and dip them one by one into some good batter, and fry of a nice colour. Boil ^ lb. of sugar to caramel, with which glaze the fritters, strewing over each, as it is done, some gros Sucre. PEACH JELLY. Cut ten or twelve peaches in halves, take out the stones, and peel them; set a pint of clarified sugar, diluted with water, on the fire, and when it has boiled and been skimmed put in the peaches (the kernels should be broken and put in with them); let them boil very gently for ten minutes, take out four or five of the halves, and lay them on a plate to be in readiness for garnishing the jelly: let the remainder of the peaches boil for ten minutes longer. While they are boiling take three lemons, cut off the rind, and squeeze the juice through a silk sieve in a basin ; pass the liquor of the peaches into it, and then the isinglass, running it through a sieve two or three times in order to mix it well; half fill the mould with jelly, and when set put in the peaches and a little more jelly, and when that is set fill up the mould. The reason why the lemons are peeled before they are squeezed for this jelly is, that the oil in the rind would rather spoil the flavour of the jelly than be any addition. PEACH MARMALADE. Choose the finest peaches (but they must not be too ripe), peel them, take out the stones, and put them into a china basin; clarify a sufficient quantity of sugar to allow the fruit to float in the syrup; boil this sugar to lisse, let it cool a little, then pour it over your fruit, and leave it. The next day drain the syrup, boil it twelve or fifteen times, and then pour it again over the fruit. Repeat this process every twenty-four hours for six days, each time adding a little sugar and boiling it longer, until it at last reaches the degree of grande perle ; then add the fruit, and boil them together; as soon as they have boiled up three or four times take the whole off the fire, and put it into glass or china jars. During the six days that the fruit lies in the syrup take care to place a piece of paper the size of the pan on the-surface of th6 syrup,PEA [ 310 ] PEA to prevent the fruit from rising above the latter, and keep it all equally moist. PEACHES: To Preserve. Rub them gently, when not too ripe, with a cloth; run them down the seam with a needle skin deep, and cover them with good brandy; tie a blad- der over them, and let them stand a week ; then take them out and make a strong syrup, after which boil, skim, and put the peaches therein till they look clear, when they will be fit to be put into pots. Mix the syrup with the brandy, and when cold pour it on the fruit. Tie the pots over with bladder. PEACHES EN COMPOTE. Cut your peaches in half, take out the stones, and peel them ; then set them on the fire in a sugar-pan, with a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar to cover them, and let them simmer in this gently till done; then take them out in a basin, put the kernels into the sugar, and let it boil tolerably quick; put in the juice of two or three lemons, and pour the syrup over the peaches. Serve them in a deep hot dish. PEAR CREAM. Take twelve jargonelles or any other mellow pear; peel, core, and cut them in quarters ; put them in the tammy, and mash them well with a wooden spoon; then put to them a little clarified sugar (cold), the juice of three lemons, with isinglass as cool as it can be without settling; then rub the whole through a tammy, and immediately set it in several small moulds or one large one, with ice round it. PEAR ICE. Take any kind of pears you prefer; let them be quite ripe, and having pared and cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little water, and set them on the fire. When the fruit is quite soft rub it through a sieve; to each pound of the pulp put f lb. of sugar boiled to petite liase, and the juice of two lemons; mix them well, and freeze in the usual manner. PEAR TART. Peel your pears carefully, cut them into quarters, and take out the cores; if large and green boil them in a little water till soft, and simmer them in some rich syrup; line a dish with puff paste, lay in the pears with the syrup, cover, and bake. PEARL. A hard, white, glossy, and roundish concretion, which is usually found in the shell of the East Indian pearl oyster, though it is also occasionally met with in the shell fish of Europe. About the middle of the last century a very extensive fishery was carried on in the rivers communicating with lakes in the northern parts of Scotland, whence London was supplied with a considerable number of pearls that were little inferior to those of the East; but this source of wealth is at present exhausted. Pearls are formed of the same matter as the inner shell of the fish in which they are found, and consist of several coats spread with the greatest regularity over each other, in a manner similar to those of an onion. The most esteemed and true form of pearls is a complete sphere, though they are sometimes pear-shaped, and of a considerable size, according to which their value rises progressively, as they serve for ear- rings and other ornaments. They ought to possess a pure white lustre, perfectly clear from spots or stains, and their surface should be smooth and glossy, having a beautiful natural polish, which no art can improve. The finest pearls are imported from the East. Aetificial Peakls. As the genuine pearls are sold at an extravagant price, ingenious men have contrived methods of imitating them so completely that they can scarcely be distinguished from those collected in the East. The principal ingredient employed for tliis purpose remained a profound secret for many years, but it is now ascertained that it consists of the fine silvery matter which is found on the lower side of the scales of the blay, or bleak-fish (Cyprinus alhurnus, L.). These scales are first removed, then washed repeatedly in pure water, and, after the different liquors have subsided, the fluid part is carefully decanted, when a pea)ly matter of an oily consistence remains at the bottom, which is denominated by the French essence d'Orient. A small portion of this matter is dropped in a hollow, bluish glass bead; that is gently agitated till the whole internal surface is completely lined, when the cavity is filled up with wax, in order to impart solidity and weight. Pearls thus manufactured possess fewer blemishes than such as are natural or genuine, to which they are fully equal in point oif brilliancy. PEARL BARLEY. Sec Barley. PEARL DENTIFRICE. Precipitated ciialk, 4 ozs. ; talc finely powdered, 2 ozs.; Chinese blue, 1 or 2 grains, just to give a tint. PEARL WI-llTE, or Pearl Powder. See Cosmetics. PEARLASH is impure Potash, which see. PEARS. To Compound. Take twelve large pears, and codle them ; when tender take them out, and lay them in cold water; pare and cut them in halves, take out the cores, and put them in syrup made thus :—2i lbs. of sugar to three pints of water; a little lemon-peel, pared very thin and boiled in them; and a little cochineal, bruised and put in a muslin bag. Cover them, boil them quickly till they are tender and of a good colour, and when cold squeeze in the juico of two or three lemons. PEARS, BAKED. Take six fine pears; peel, cut them in halves, and take out the cores; put them into a pan, with a little red wine, a few[ 311 i PEA PEA cloves, i lb. of sugar, and some water; set them in a moderate oven till tender, and then put them on a slow fire to stew gently; add grated lemon-peel, and more sugar if necessary. They will be sufficiently red. PEARS, CANDIED, are done like Apricots. PEARS, COMPOTE OF. Take some good- sized pears, cut them in halves, put them into boiling water, and when soft change them into cold water, in which squeeze a little lemon juice. Boil some clarified sugar, drain the fruit well from the water, and then put it into the syrup; boil together until the pears are sufficiently done ; skim, and place them in the compotier. A little Burgundy wine and prepared cochineal will give the compote a red colour. PEARS, PRESERVED. Take care, in making this preserve, that the pears be not too ripe ; they are in a fit state as soon as the pips are black. Set the pears on the fire with sufficient water to cover them; take them off when quite soft, and throw them into cold water; pare them lightly, cut off the stalks, prick each with a pin sufficiently long to reach the core, and put them again in cold water, with a handful of alum; set them on the fire to boil until the pears are tender, then take them out, and put them in cold water for the third time. Clarify and boil some sugar to petite lisse; put some water to it, and when it boils add the pears, cover the pan, and give the whole a boil; skim, pour it into an earthen pan, and leave it. The next day drain the syrup from the pears, add a little more clarified sugar to it, and boil it again to f^eii'ie lisse; pour it over the fruit, and leave it as before. The next and two successive days proceed in the same way, each time decreasing the degree of boiling until it reaches grande perle; then add the pears, give the preserve a boil (covered), skim and pour it into a pan, place it in a stove for two days, then drain the fruit, and put it by for use. PEARS, STEWED. Wash and prick some large stewing pears, and set them on the fire in a large stewpan of water to scald. When scalded take them out, and put them on a fire in a pan, with a sufficient quantitj' of clanfied sugar to cover them, a stick of cinnamon, a little mace, and two or three cloves ; let them stew gently till they begin to soften and look rather red, then put in a bottle of port wine, and let them continue stewing until they are perfectly done, and look very rich and red ; then put them in a basin or jar, with the liquor over them They will be all the better for being kept four or five days. PEAS: To Stkw. Put into a stewpan a quart of peas, a lettuce and onion (both sliced), a piece of butter, some pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce from wash- ing. Stew them very gently for two hours. When to be served beat up an egg, and stir it into them, or some flour and butter. PEAS, BOILED. Set a large pan of spring water on the fire, and when it boils put in the peas, with a handful of salt and a stalk of mint. When done drain them in a cullender, and toss them in a stewpan with a large piece of butter, a little salt, and pepper. If for the second course be careful that they are the very youngest, and omit the pepper. PEAS, CULLIS OF. Boil some green peas in a little good stock, with a bunch of parsley, scallions, and savory; then rub them through a sieve into a cullis. If you wish it to be very green add a little spinach essence. PEAS, ISSUE. See Issue Peas. PEAS, POTTAGE OF. Put about three pints of green peas into cold water; add to them ^ lb. of butter, which mix well with the peas by working them about with your hands ; then, hav- ing drained them in a cullender, put the peas into a stewpan, with a little parsley and a few scallions, and set them on a moderate fire, stirring occasionally. In half an hour's time take them out, put them into a mortar, and pound them well; rub them through a sieve, adding a little cold broth to enable them to go through more easily. Make your puree very clear, heat it, and pour it on the bread about ten minutes before you serve it. PEAS POWDER FOR PEA SOUP. Pound together in a marble mortar 2 ozs. each of dried mint and sage leaves, and \ oz. each of celery seed and black pepper. Rub through a hair sieve, and keep in a glass bottle well corked. PEAS PUDDING. Take a pint of good split peas, and, having washed them, soak them well in warm water; then tie them in a cloth, put the pudding into a saucepan of hot water and boil it until quite soft. When done beat it up with a little butter and salt, and serve it witli boiled pork or beef. PEAS IN A PUREE. Proceed as directed for Pka Soup, but let the puree be much thicker, and add a little more sugar and salt. This will serve to garnish a stewed leg of lamb, lamb or mutton cutlets, duck stewed, &c. PEAS, RAGOUT OF (with Bacon). Take \ lb. of bacon, and cut it into pieces, which put into a stewpan with a little butter. Put a pint of young peas into a basin, stir some butter into them, and po\u' on a little water; leave tho peas in this about seven minutes, then drain and set them on the fire. In a few minutes add a little broth, then bacon, parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper; stew the whole over a gentle[ 312 ] PEC PEP fire, skim it well, and if too salt add a little sugar. PECTORAL DROPS. See Bateman's Pectoral Drops. PECTORAL MIXTURE (for Nervous Cough and Asthma). Take medicinal prussic acid, 1 oz.; distilled water, 1 pint; refined sugar, IJoz. A dessert-spoonful every morn- ing and evening at bedtime. Tliis may be gradually increased to six or eight spoonsful in the twenty-four hours, shaking the mixture every time it is used, to prevent the inconveni- ence that might be occasioned by the acid accu- mulating on the surface. PENCIL. Tlie name given to the small brushes used by artists, whether made of hog's bristles, camel hair, fitch, or sable. The larger brushes ai'e sometimes set in a tin tube, and the smaller in quills of different sizes. The hairs of a well-made brush should, when wetted, terminate in a fine point. The well-known black-lead pencil is made by cutting " Cumberland lead," or plumbago, into thin plates with a saw, and again into strips as wide as the plate is thick. These strips are then laid in a groove in a piece of cedar, upon which is glued another and thinner piece. The whole is afterwards rounded by a plane adapted to that purpose. Pencils are commonly marked with certain letters to denote the quality of the lead, as H for hard, B for black, M for medium, and so on. BB is the blackest. Other pencils are made of black and coloured chalks for drawing, and are much more con- venient than the port-crayon. The ever-pointed pencil is an instrument so simple and so well known as to require little description. The point or nozzle is made hollow, to receive a small cylindrical piece of black- lead, about three quarters of an inch long, which cannot pass through the lower end without some little force. Within the case is a screw or worm, which, if the case be turned round by one hand while the point of the pencil is held by the other, causes a wire or mandril, about the same size as the lead, to advance or retire. When a fresh lead is put into the point, the case must be turned round towards the left until the mandril is drawn up as far as possible. The point con- taining the lead is then to be screwed on to the case; and the case being turned gently to the right hand, the lead must be forced forward until it can just be seen at the point. These leads are made of different degrees and sizes, and the cases are marked accordingly. The leads are manufactured in the following manner:—After the plumbago is cut into square strips of the same diameter as, or a little greater than, the lead required, they are passed successively through three ruby holes, each smaller than the preceding. By this means they are rendered perfectly round and smooth, so as to offer no impediment to the working of the pencil. Most cases are made with a reservoir at the top, in which a supply of five or six leads may be carried. For drawing in imitation of lithographs, pencils may be made by melting 3 ozs. of white soap, adding to it 2 ozs. of tallow, ^ oz. of bees' wax, and 1 oz. of lampblack. Mix thoroughly, and cast into moulds. PENCIL DRAWINGS. To set these—that is, to prevent their being smeared—either of the following plans may be adopted effectually:— The first is a weak solution of the best gum arable in water, applied with a large soft brush over the drawing; and the other is to steam it over boiling water. The urn, for instance, answers the purpose extremely well. For fixing chalk drawings, highly rectified spirits of wine, 16 ozs.; camphorated ditto, 2 drachms; volatile oil of rosemary, 4 drachms; whitest resin, pounded very fine, 4 drachms. Over the pencil drawings, after the moisture has been quite dried off, apply, by means of a camel's-hair brush, a varnish made of 1 oz. of Canada balsam and 2 ozs. of spirits of turpentine mixed together. PENS. {See Quills.) To preserve steelpens fi-om corroding, a most effectual way is to place them in water when not being used. A jelly glass half full of water is an excellent receptacle for them. PEPPER. Black pepper and white pepper are both the fruit of Piper nigrum. White pepper is the ripe berry deprived of its skin by soaking it in water, rubbing it off, and drying it in the sun. It has less of the peculiar virtues of the spice than black pepper, and is not so generally employed. The plant is a native of India, and is cultivated throughout the whole of the tropics, but particularly in Java, Sumatra, Borneo, Malacca, and Hindostan: large quan- tities are also produced in the tropical regions of the New World. It is a rambling shrub, eight or ten feet in length, and when cultivated requires support in the same way as the vine, either by means of artificial stakes or by planting other trees : those which are used for the purpose are Diospyros decandra or Erythrina corallodendron. The plant is propagated by cuttings, comes into a bearing state in three or four years after it is planted, and furnishes two crops of fruit in a year for a period of eleven or twelve years. The fruit, the size of a pea, is produced in spikes, green at first, then changing to red, and when ripe perfectly black. When ripe they are spread out on mats to dry, and trodden on to separate them from their spikes. According to the analysis of Pelletier, pepper contains piperin; a very acrid concrete oil, on which the propertiesPEP [ 313 J PEP of the seed are supposed to depend, a balsamic oil; a gummy colouring matter; extractive ana- logous to that of the leguminous plants; gallic and tartaric acid ; starch ; bassorine ; lignin, and a small quantity of earthy and alkaline salts. Piperin was discovered by Q5rstedt, and is in the form of colourless transparent crystals, and without taste. It has been highly praised by some as a febrifuge; but, by repeated experi- ments, it seems to have no action whatever on system. It has been thought by some that the this is the active principle of pepper, but that has been already proved to reside in the acrid concrete oil. Pepper, as is well known, is a warm, carminative stimulant; it strengthens the stomach, assists digestion, and gives tone to the •whole system, when employed in moderate quantity. But the inhabitants of the tropics ■use it to a much greater extent than we do: with it they almost saturate their food, drink it in decoction, make fermented liquors of it, which they take with relish, and which appear necessary in consequence of the excessive heat of the climate, the continual perspiration, and the debility of the digestive functions which such a temperature induces. As a medicine, pepper is chiefly employed to excite languid digestion and correct flatulence : it is the principal ingre- dient in the well-known medicine called Ward's paste, so celebrated in the cure of chronic piles. PEPPER CAKES. Boil i oz. of whole white pepper in a gill of sherry for a quarter of an hour, then strain and add the mixture to as much fine sugar as will make a paste; drop this on a tin plate, and let the cakes dry. PEPPER, CAYENNE. See Cayenne Pepper and Capsicum. PEPPER, GUINEA. Same as Capsicum. PEPPER, JAMAICA, more commonly known as Allspice, is the fruit of Eugenia pimento. The berries are dried by spreading them on a terrace exposed to the sun lor about seven days, during which time they gradually lose their green colour, and become of a reddish brown. They have a fragrant odour, which is supposed to resemble that of a mixture of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg; and hence the name of allspice, by which they are known. Their taste is warm, aromatic, pungent, and slightly as- tringent. They impart their flavour to water, and all their virtues to alcohol, and yield a •volatile oil by distillation called oil of pimento. Besides the volatile oil, they contain a green fixed oil, a concrete, oleaginous substance, tannin, gum, resin, uncrystallisable sugar, colouring matter, malic and gallic acids, saline matters, moisture, and lignin. The green oil has the burning aromatic taste of pimento, and is supposed to be the acrid principle. Besides being used in domestic economy as a spice, it possesses medical properties, which are warm, aromatic, stimulant, and is particularly useful in cases attended with much flatulence. PEPPER, LONG, is formed of the dried female spikes of Chavica Roxburghii. It is used for the same purposes as black pepper. The tree is a native of the tropics, and it is worthy of notice that the natives of the Coro- mandel coast use it in catarrhs when the lungs are loaded with mucus. They make a tea of it, sweeten it with honey, and give it in repeated small quantities to the patient. PEPPER POT. Take as much spinach as will fill a good-sized dish, put it in a saucepan without any water, set it on the fire, and let it boil; then drain off all the liquor, chop the spinach very fine, and return it to the saucepan, with the water just drained from it, more water, onions, three or four potatoes, a lettuce or head of endive cut small, the bones of any cold roasted meat if you have them, and i lb. of bacon. Set the whole on the fire, and when it has boiled for about an hour put in a few suet dumplings; leave it twenty or thirty minutes longer, season it with Cayenne, and serve. PEPPER SAUCE. Take an onion or two, a couple of carrots, a parsnip, half a parsley root (all cut in slices), two cloves of garlic, a bay leaf, two cloves, and a little butter; set them on the fire, and when they take colour add some cullis, half a glass of vinegar and broth, salt, and coarse pepper ; reduce to a proper consistence, skim, and strain it. PEPPER, WHITE. See Pepper. PEPPERMINT [Mentha piperita) is a native of Britain. The plant has a warm, pungent, and camphorous taste, leaving a remarkably cold sensation in the mouth. Its odour is very strong, balsamic, and penetrating, particularly when touched, and which it does not lose even in drying. Peppermint is stimulant and aro- matic, and is good against spasmodic pains of the bowels, nausea, and flatulence. Its pioperties are owing to the presence of the large quantity of volatile oil which it contains, and which is obtained by distillation. Oil of peppermint is greenish yellow, and has a strong aromatic odour, with a warm, camphorous, and very pungent taste. PEPPERMINT DROPS. Mix finely pow- dered stigar with the whites of eggs to give it consistency; add 120 drops of the oil to every ^ lb. of sugar, dropping it off the point of a kuife; or, mix the sugar with lemon juice, and the same proportion of oil of peppermint. Dry it gently over the fire, and drop it. The drops may be rendered more stomachic by adding to those made with the white of egg 1 oz. of magnesia. Roll out and cut with a cutter. They may be[ 314 PER PEP also made of gum, magnesia, sugar, and oil of peppermint. PEPPERMINT, ESSENCE OF. Oil ot peppermint, 1 oz.; herb peppermint, i oz.; spirit of wine, 1 pint. Digest for a -week, or until sufficiently coloured. Palish green, and very strong of the peppermint. Essence of peppermint is not conceived to be good by the ignorant unless it has a pale tint of green, which they presume is a proof of its being genuine. The most harmless way is to steep a Kttle of the green peppermint in the spirit for this purpose as above; or, if this is not at hand, a little parsley will do equally as well, and, in fact, improve the flavour. Some persons use spinach for the same purpose, and others add a few grains of sap-green, dissolved in a spoonful of hot water. All these are quite innocent. The practice of using cupreous salts, adopted by some lazy and unprincipled makers, is unpardonable, and admits of no excuse, even a lame one, as not the least advantage, either of convenience, or cost, or appearance, results from such a practice; while the colouring matter, though small in quantity, is nevertheless suffi- cient to impart a noxious quality to the liquor. This fraud may be detected by the addition of liquor of ammonia in excess. Essence of peppermint is cordial, stimulant, and stomachic. A few drops on sugar, or mixed with water or wine, is an excellent remedy in flatulence, colic, sickness, &c. It is also used as a flavouring. Dose, 10 drops to a tea- spoonful.—(Cooley's Cyclopaidia.) PEPPERMINT WATER. Your pepper- mint must be gathered when it is full grown, and before it seeds. Cut it in short lengths, fill your still with it, and cover it with water; then make a good fire under it, and when it is nearly boiling, and the still begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, draw a little from under it as you see occasion, to keep it from boiling over, or your water will be muddy. The slower your still drops the clearer and stronger will be your water; but do not spend it too far. The next day bottle it, and let it stand three or lour days to take off the fiery taste ; then cork it well, and it will keep a long time. PEPTICS. See Appetite, Dvspepsia, and Indigestion. PERCH are not esteemed so much as carp and tench, but they are most delicate fish. Their freshness may be ascertained by the live- liness of their eyes and the stiffness of their fins. Perch do not preserve so good a flavour when stewed as wiaen dressed in any other way. They are is in season in the months of October and November, and may be chosen by the same tests as the Carp. PERCH: To Braise. Take off the skin and fins, ana bi-aise it; ser%'e it with any butter sauce, and garnish with lemon. Or, cook as above, and serve it in green sauce, or in a matelote. PERCH, BOILED. Set the perch on the fire in cold water, with plenty of salt. As soon as they boil skim them well, place them aside to simmer till done, and serve them with anchovy sauce, or with melted butter and soy. ■pERCH IN COURT BOUILLON. Hav- ing cleaned your perch and rejected their gills, wash them well in vinegar, and then put them into a saucepan, with some butter, sweet herbs, small white onions, and white wine; stew them till done, drain, and serve them dry on a napkin folded in a dish, PERCH FRIED IN A MARINADE. Scale and cut off' the fillets of six perch without any bone, and let them soak ten minutes in a marinade of half vinegar, half water, carrots, onions, a bay leaf, some peppercorns, salt, and a clove of garlic. A few minutes before you wish to serve them take them out of the marinade, shake them in flour, and fry them quickly in clear lard. When free from the fat place them on a dish, with good strong butter sauce under them, into which put a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar: when very hot pour it belween the fish. PERCH, STEWED. Having thoroughly cleaned and taken out the gills, put j'our perch into a stewpan, wich a sliced onion, a carrot, a bay leaf, parsley, salt, and a little water. When done drain them, take off' the scales and skins carefully, place the fins at equal distances in the body, and serve them covered with a buttered sauce, PERCH AU WATER SOUCHET. Cut some parsley roots in small pieces, which put i n a sufficient quantity of water to boil what perch you may have ; add a bunch of parsley aud some salt. When the roots are quite done put in the perch, well scaled and cleaned, for ten minutes. In the meantime scald some parsley leaves in salt and water ; tben drain the perch, place them in a tureen, with the parsley roots and leaves ; strain the liquor over them, and serve. Slices of bread and butter should be sent to table to eat with them, PERCH WITH WINE. Having scaled and taken out the gills, put the perch into a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock and white wine, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two cloves, and some salt. When done take out the fish, and strain off' the liquor, the dregs of which mix with some butter and a little flour; beat these up, set them on the fire, stirring till quite done, adding pepper, grated nutmeg, and a ball of anchovy[ 315 ] PER PER •butter. Drain the perch well, and dish them with the above sauce. PERISTALTIC PERSUADERS. This is the name, allusive to their promoting the di- gesting movement of the intestines, given by Dr. Kitchener to his pills. They are thus formed : — Turkey rhubarb in powder, 2 drachms ; oil of caraway, 10 drops ; simple syrup, 1 drachm by weight. Mix, and divide into forty pills. Dose, two, three, or more. From two to four will generally produce one additional motion within twelve hours. The best time to take them is early in the morning. PERLINGO. Take H lb. of sifted flour, and place it on your slab; make a hole in the middle of it, in which put f lb. of brown sugar, i lb. of fresh butter, the rind of two lemons grated, and ten eggs; knead all these ingredients together well until you have a pretty firm paste (if it should be too thin add a handful more flour); then cut the paste into small pieces, each of which roll in the palms of your hands till it is the length and thickness of your finger; take a round stick (about half the diameter of your paste), press this down on each of the pieces, so that they may be their original thiclmess on one side, and thin on the other, When all are thus pressed form them into little crowns (the flat side inwards, and the thin end uppermost), lay tbem on white paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. In the meanwhile make some white varnish or icing, and, when the perlingos are sufficiently done, dip them carefully in the varnish one by one; then re- place them in the oven a minute or two to dry. PEROGEE PADOGEES. Take a piece of beef, mutton, or lamb that is tender, and the same quantity of beef suet shred separately very fine; then mix them together, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and a little shallot. When sea- soned mix it with a little good broth or gravy. Make a paste as follows:—^-Melt 2 ozs. of fresh butter in half a pint of warm milk ; then put in one egg well beaten, adding flour to it by degrees till it is very stiff", and no eyes in it; mould it well, roll it very thin, cut it out with a very small basin, lay the meat on one side, turn the other over as a pufi", close it with some egg, yolk and white beaten together, and fry in good beef dripping. PERRY is a pleasant and wholesome liquor madefrom the juice of pears by means of fermenta- tion, somewhat in the same manner as cyder is made from apples. The best pears for perry or at least the sorts which have been hitherto thought the fittest for making this liquor, are so excessively tart and harsh as to be totally unfit for any other purpose. The Bosbury pear and the Bearland, or Barland, are the most esteemed in Worcestershire, and the Squash pear, as it is called, in Gloucestershire : the liquor made from this fruit is pale, sweet, yet remarkably fine, and of a strong body, and held in very great estimation. In making perry the pears should be ground and pressed exactly in the same manner as apples in the making of cyder ; but the re- duced pulp should not be allowed to remain any length of time without being pressed. In Hertfordshire, or the counties in its vici- nity, it has never been the practice to blend the juices of the different varieties of the pear, in order to correct the defects of one kind by the opposite properties of another. It is, however, thought more easy to find the required portion of sugar and astringency, as well as flavour, in three or four varieties than in one ; therefore it is supposed ti judicious mixture of fruits aff'ords a prospect of great benefit. In gi'inding, the pulp and rind of the pear, as in the apple, should be perfectly I'educed; and though no benefit is said to be derived from the reduced pulp remaining some hours unpressed, yet there is no doubt but, where all other cir- cumstances are the same, that portion of liquor will, for the most part, be found the best which has remained the longest under the power of the millstone. The juices of the pear and the apple are constituted of the same component parts, but the proportions are dilTerent. In tlio juice of the pear the tannin principally is pre- dominant, with a less portion of sugar, mucilage, and acid matter. Perry requires nearly the same sort of manage- ment during the process of fermentation as cyder, but it does not afford the same indications by which the proper time of racking it off may be ascertained. The thick scum that collects on the surface of cyder seldom appears on the juice of the pear, and during the time of sus- pension of its fermentation the excessive bright- ness of the former liquor is rarely seen in the latter; but, where the fruit has been regularly ripe, its produce will become moderate!)' clear and quiet in a few daj's after it is made, and it should then be drawn off from its grosser lees. To prevent an excess of fermentation the same means are used as in making cyder, and tho liquor is rendered perfectly bright by isinglass. For this purpose the isinglass should be reduced to small fragments by pounding in a mortar, and aftenvards steeped twelve or fourteen hours in a quantity of liquor suflicient to produce its greatest degree of expansion. In this state it must be mixed with a few gallons of the liquor, and stirred till it is diff'used and suspended in it; and it is then poured into the cask, and incorporated with the whole by continued agita- tion for two or three hours. This process should[ 316 ] * PER PEE be repeated till the required degree of bright- ness is obtained, the liquor being each time drawn off on the second or third day from its precipitated lees. About 1^ oz. or 2 ozs. of isinglass are generally put into a cask of a hundred and ten gallons at once. Were its mode of action purely mechanical there could be no objection to a larger quantity ; but it has also a chemical action on the liquor. It combines ■with, and carries down, the tannin principle; and hence, during the process of fining, the liquor is deprived of a large portion of its astringency. This substance is most readily dilfused in liquors by boiling; but by this it is dissolved and converted into glue, and its or- ganisation, on which alone its powers of fining depend, is totally destroyed. I3ut when perry can be made sufficiently brown without it, it is better not to use the isinglass, as the liquor is rendered extremely agreeable to the eye by it, but is thought to become more thm and acid by its action. In the after-management of perry the method is the same as that of cyder; but it does not bear situations where it is exposed to much change of temperature so well, and its future merit cannot be so well judged of by its present state. In the bottle it almost always retains its good qualities, and in that situation it is best to be put, if it remains sound and perfect, at the conclusion of the first succeeding summer. The above directions are principally accordiiig to Mr. Knight's rules. PERRY VINEGAR. The pears which fall from the trees are picked up, cut into slices, and put into casks; water is poured over them, and they are left exposed to the sun, and yeast is added to the fermentation. When the vinegar is made, strain and let it rest for some days, after which a deposit is formed. Draw off the vinegar carefully, and bottle it. PERSICA. Cut about one hundred peach leaves, put them into a wide-mouthed bottle, pour on them a quart of the best brandy, and cork it closely: in three weeks strain it off, and put it in an equal quantity of capillaire. It is good in custards, puddings, and as a liqueur. PERSPIRATION. Of all the natural evacu- ations none is so important and extensive, none is carried on with less interruption, and none frees the body from so many impurities, par- ^ ticularly from acrid and thin humours, as insen- ' sible perspiration. The health of man chiefly depends on the proper state of this function; the irregularities occurring in it occasionally produce peevishness.of temper, headache, dis- turbed sleep, heaviness in the limbs, &c.; and, on the contrary, we find ourselves most lively and vigorous when it is duly and uniformly performed. A person of a middle stature, and in perfect health, perspires, according to the calculation of some, fi'om three to four pounds' weight, accord- ing to others, about five pounds, within twenty- four hours. The exudation by the pores is most essential during the night, the noxioas particles only being then sej)arated, which, on account of the disturbances we are exposed to through the day, cannot be so well effected, as the circulation of the blood is interrupted, while at night it is comparatively more calm and regular ; besides which, the nocturnal perspira- tion is more copious, from the greater uniformity of the surrounding atmosphere. Most of the febrile diseases arise from a suppressed perspiration, as the exuded matter is of an acrid and irritating nature. To transpire beneficially means that the impure and per- nicious particles only be ejected, in which case the perspiration is invisible and imperceptible. This is so essential a requisite, that without it the health of the individual cannot long subsist. The reciprocal connection between the functions of the stomach and of perspiration is so obvious, that if the latter be checked the former is imme- diately affected, and the reverse takes place if the stomach be disordered. The more vigorously a person perspires (it ought to be well remarked that the question here is not of sueating), the more active are the powers of the body iu the regular concoction of the alimentary juices, and the more certain it is that no fluids will superabound; for the fluids, though refined and subtle, far exceed in weight the more compact and solid parts of the system, so that they would oppress the machine like a heavy burden if not evacuated by the pores of the skin. Most individuals, however, are accus- tomed to direct their attention only to evacua- tions of a more gross nature, or such as aro more obvious to the senses. But insensihle perspiration is of greater moment than all the other excretions; and by paying due regard to that function, if it should be accidentally dis- turbed, we may frequently discover the lurking cause of a distemper, and remove it before it has materially injured the body. Yet even in the most healthy this perspira- tion is not at all times, nor at all hours of the day, equally active. It is weaker after a plen- tiful meal, but as soon as the food is digested we again perspire with increased energy; for the new chyle being changed into blood, imparts additional efficacy to the vital powers, as well as to the circulation of the blood itself. As we perspire considerably more in summer than iu winter, our mode of life with respect to sleep, as well as to food and drink, ought to be regulated accordingly. We know, from E^ccurate observa- tion, that if we retire to bed immediately after supper the process of perspiration is checkedPER PER [ 317 ] in a remarkable degree ; we also know that it is highly conducive to health that this important function of the body be preserved in the most uniform state: hence it necessarily follows that after supper we ought to sit up at least two hours, and, to afford this benefit both to the organs of digestion and perspiration, our suppers should not be delayed to the late hours now so absurdly in fashion. According to the experiments made by dif- ferent inquirers into the nature of insensible perspiration, this process is most forcibly af- fected, and sometimes totally suppressed, by the following circumstances:— 1. By violent pain, which in a remarkable degree consumes the fluids of the body, or propels them to other parts. S. By obstructions of the cutaneous vessels, which are frequently occasioned by the use of salves, ointments, and cosmetics. 3. By severe colds, especially those contracted at night and during sleep. 4. When nature is employed with other ob- jects. Thus perspiration is weaker during the time of concoction, particularly after using food difficult of digestion. This is likewise the case wlien nature endeavours to promote any other species of evacuation, which more engages the attention of the senses—for instance, vomitings, diarrhoeas, considerable hemorrhages, and the like—as also when the efforts of nature are too weak: hence the aged, the debilitated, and poor persons, unable to supply the wants of the body, or to pay due attention to cleanliness, perspire less than others. Lastly, the same must happen to individuals of a sedentary life who neglect the necessary exercise of the body, and those likewise who wear tight garments and improper ligatures about the joints. Perspiration, on the contrary, is promoted,— 1. By stretching or expanding the limbs, as the lungs and muscles thus acquire an additional impulse, and the fluids circulating too slowly in the smaller vessels are propelled to the larger veins and arteries, and forwarded to the heart; so that this principal muscle is then obliged to extend and contract its ventricles with greater force, and consequently to quicken the whole circulation of the blood. 2. By the lukewarm bath, which is well cal- culated to soften the skin, and thus to open the pores for a better perspiration. 3. By moderate bodily exercise. 4. By mild sudorific remedies; and for this reason it is extremely proper, in the case of a recent cold, to drink two or three cups of tea, especially when going to bed. If perspirabte matter collect in drops it should then be called sweat, and is no longer a natural and necessary evacuation; on the contrary, we find very healthful and robust persons who seldom or never sweat. By means of this exuda- tion both noxious and useful particles are at the same time ejected from the surface, the body is enfeebled, the blood is rendered impure, and the secretion of bad humours is prevented by every violent effort of the cutaneous vessels. If sweating be carried to excess it is extremely injurious, and may even be productive of con- sumption. By insensible perspiration, on the contrary, the superfluous particles only are expelled, because the circulation of the fluids is slower, and more calm and uniform. This important purification of the blood ought never to be checked : if, therefore, we wish to take a bracing exercise, it should by no means be con- tinued till profuse perspiration takes place. Cold only checks perspiration when it occa sions an unusual stimulus on the skin, and when we too suddenly remove from a warm to a cold atmosphere. Hence the necessity of accustoming ourselves from early youth to the vicissitudes of heat and cold, of walking every day in the open air, and of washing the whole body at least once a week with lukewarm, or still better, with cold water. By this practice the pores are braced and inured to undergo the different changes of the weather and seasons without suffering, as most people now do upon the slightest occasion, by severe colds and catarrhs. It is never too late to begin this strengthen- ing process, by frequently washing and rubbing the whole surface of the body with cold water; for, if cautiously managed at first, it cannot fail to invigorate young persons and adults, as well as the aged. To sleep on feather beds occasions a constant vapour bath at night, which destroys the beneficial acquisi- tions of the day. To remove from a cold tem- perature to a still colder one is not nearly so prejudicial as to exchange suddenly the air of a warm room for that of a moist and cold atmo- sphere. This accounts for the frequent colds caughtin summer, even by going from the burning rays of the sun to the cooling shade; and hence, too, the first cold of autumn is most sensibly felt, because we are then unaccustomed to that impression. Much also depends on the nature and pro- perties of our food and drink, in respect to the state of insensible perspiration. The subtle and rarefied fluids only, not those of a coarse and oily consistence, can pervade the skin. Too many oleaginous, viscous, and crude articles of nourishment, such as fat meat, pastry, boiled mealy dishes, smoked hams, sausages, &c., have a strong tendency to obstruct the free perspira- tion of the body, and consequently to affect tho serenity of the mind.PER [ 318 ] All the depressing passions and emotions are a powerful check to insensible perspiration ; while, on the contrary, those of an exhilarating nature may promote and increase it to such a degree as sometimes to prove the predisposing, though distant cause of consumptions. Moderate daily exercise is eminently calculated to support this function, and to strengthen the whole body. Cleanliness produces a similar effect, for some impurities continually settle on the surface of the body; and these, if not removed in time, clog the pores, and are so detrimental to health that they may occasion many obstinate dis- tempers which might be easily prevented, or at least checked in their progress, by a proper and constant attention to the skin. Too violent a perspiration indicates great debility of the body, or a laxity of the cutaneous vessels, which may frequently be removed by cold bathing or washing. When persons are troubled with unusual night sweats they may receive benefit, if it be not a symptom of hectic fever, by taking, immediately before going to bed, 2 or 3 drachms of cream of tartar in either beer or water. But if this simple remedy, after repeated trials, should prove ineffectual, a pro- fessional man ought to be consulted, as long- continued night sweats may in the end produce great weakness, and even consumption. In most of the common colds the popular stimulant remedies, such as heating liquors, and particularly sudorifics, are ill calculated to relieve the complaint. If the patient at the same time be troubled with pain in the bowels, headache, a foul tongue, &c., a gentle laxative will be of greater service than the diaphoretics. But if the stomach be peculiarly affected, if the tongue be clean and the appetite good, two or three cups of warm diluent drink, a tepid bath for the legs, a moderately warm room and dress, gentle exercise, and friction of the skin with warm cloths, are the most proper and generally effectual means of relief. As the retention of useless and superfluous matter is hurtful, it is not less detrimental to health if substances not prepared for evacuation are ejected from the body. Of this kind are bleedings from the nose, the mouth, and the vessels of the anus. Though these are not natural evacuations, yet they may occasionally be beneficial, as nature sometimes makes an effort to expel noxious matter in an unusual manner. But these parts or fluids ejected as pernicious, strictly speaking, ought not to exist in the body ; and though the evacuation of them be beneficial, it is a symptom of disease. If, therefore, such preternatural discharges take place too violently or frequently, they ought to be checked with judgment and circumspection ; and we should endeavour to lead, but not to force, nature to a more salutary canal than that she has adopted, either by accident or wanton compulsion. PERUVIAN BALSAM. See Balsam of Peru. PERUVIAN BARK. See Barks. PETITS PATfiS. Roll out about 1 lb. of puff paste to a proper thickness, which cut into pieces with a plain round paste cutter two inches in diameter. Place half the number of pieces on a baking tin slightly wetted, about half an inch apart; moisten each of them a little, and having laid a small piece of godiveau on every one, cover tliem with the remainder of the paste, press the edges together, dorez, and bake them in a brisk oven of a clear brown. PETTITOES. Boil the feet, the liver, and the heart of a sucking pig in a little water very gently; then split the feet, cut the meat very small, and simmer it with a little of the water till the feet are perfectly tender; thicken with a piece of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper and salt; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. PEWTER. The best kind contains no lead, being composed of tin, with small propor- tions of antimony, bismuth, and copper. It was formerly much employed for dinner ser- vices, hot-water plates, &c., but is now rarely used except for innkeepers' measures, porter pots, and such-like utensils. PHEASANT: To Carve. When the skewers are removed fix your fork in the middle of the breast, and cut down in slices from a to b. Take off tbe leg of the one side b d; then separate the wing on the samo side <i h, after which re- move the leg and win^ on the opposite side, and then cut off tho slices of the breast which were before di- vided. In tailing off the wings care must he observed not to cut near the neck, as at the point y is tho bone from which the wing must be separated. Cut off the merry- thought in the direction of / j, by passing tho knife under it towards the neck. The other parts are to be divided as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and men^thought are the raopt esteemed, but the legs have the richest flavour. PHEASANT: To Roast. Take out the entrails, and singe the pheasant over tlie stove; then roll a piece of butter in pepper and salt, and put it into the inside of the bird ; truss it neatly with tlie head turned on one side, keep-[ 319 ] PHE PHE ing the breast as full as possible, over which should be laid slices of fat bacon tied on with packthread: before it is put on the spit break the back-bone, that it may lie the better on the dish. A good-sized pheasant will take half an hour to roast. When nearly done take away the bacon, brown the pheasant well, sprinkle it with flour and salt, and froth it with butter. Serve it with water-cresses, a good gravy under it, and bread sauce in a boat. PHEASANT: To Truss. Let it be well picked and singed; tfien cut a slit in the back of the neck, and carefully take out the crop without breaking it; then cut off the vent, draw out the inside, and put in a little pepper and salt, mixed with a bit of butter. Having cleansed it, proceed to truss the bird by first cutting off the pinion at the first joint, so that the feathers may not be picked off that part; break the back-bone, and truss it in the same manner as a fowl, by pressing the legs close to the apron; then turn the bird on the breast, and run the skewer through the end of the pinion, the leg, the body, and the leg and pinion on the other side, with the head fixed on the end of the skewer, and over the breast lay a slice of fat bacon, and tie it on with pack- thread. If for boiling or stewing, truss them the same as a fowl for boiling. PHEASANT, BOUDINS OF. Take all the meat from a cold roasted pheasant (without any of the skin and sinews), and mince it very small; break the bones in pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of water; draw out tlie essence of them over the fire, and soak some bread in it; boil six onions in broth, season them with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a little basil and parsley. When done mince and mix them with the pheasant and bread; put the whole into a mortar, and pound it; dilute with'cream, add the yolks of six eggs, f lb. of beef cut into dice, salt, and spices. Put the preparation into skins as usual. PHEASANT WITH CABBAGES. Take a trussed pheasant, and lard the breast and legs with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; cover it with bacon, line a stewpan with bacon also, and put in the pheasant, with three moderate-sized servelas, four carrots, four onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, some slices of veal, and 1 lb. of streaked bacon. Blanch the cabbages, tie them up that they may not lose their shape, put them to the pheasant, with stock and pep- per, and let them simmer for two hours ; then drain the cabbages, place the pheasant in the centre of a dish, the other articles round, and serve with a fumet of game. PHEASANT WITH CELERY. Prepare a pheasant the same as a fowl is prepared for boiling ; then stew it in any kind of good braise till it is well done. Have ready six fine heads of celery cut into rounds about the size of a shilling, blanch them for a few minutes, drain them on a sieve, and then put them to stew till nearly dry in good stock. Have ready some good brown sauce, with a piece of butter mixed in it; put the celery to this, add one squeeze of lemon juice, stir it gently, pour the whole over the pheasant, and serve it to the table hot. PHEASANT IN FILLETS. Cut out the fillets of the breast the same as from a fowl, lay them on a table, and with a large knife cut them into three thin slices; then lay them care- fully in some clarified butter. When all are done sprinkle a little salt over them, do them for a minute over a quick fire (turning them on each side), but be careful that they are not brown ; drain them from the butter, dish them in the form of a star, and pour over them some butter sauce very hot, with half a lemon squeezed into it. PHEASANT, GELATINE OF. Soak and blanch a fine fat liver, and cut it in halves, each of which divide into four slices; pound two of these, a partridge boned, and an equal quantity of fat bacon ; season the whole highly, adding the yolks of two eggs and sweet herbs, the latter dressed in a little butter. When these ingredients are thoroughly pounded rub the farce through a quenelle sieve. Take a plump pheasant that has hung for some days, lay it open on a napkin, season it highly, and spi'ead half the farce over it; on this put three of the slices of liver, and between each some truffles cut in halves; strew over a proper quantity of spiced salt, then half the remaining farce, the liver, truffles, and spice as before; cover the whole with the rest of the farce, sew up the bird in its original form, and cook the gelatine in the usual way. {See Par- tridges, Gelatine of.) The pheasant, how- ever, requires to be three houre on the fire. PHEASANT, GRATIN OF. Mince ex- tremely fine the breast of a pheasant that has been roasted, and put in some good bechamel sauce; mix it well up, and add a little lemon juice; then pour it into a dish, shake over it a few bread crumbs, sprinkle it with clarified butter, and then with more bread crumbs, and, just before it is wanted, colour it with the sala- mander. PHEASANT WITH OLIVES. Stuff a pheasant with a farce composed of fat livers, truffles, scallions (all minced), streaked bacon pounded, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, mixed to- gether with one or two yolks of eggs ; wrap the bird in a slice of bacon, and roast it. When done serve it with olives stewed in rich veal gravy, poured round. PHEASANT A LA PERIGEAUX. Hav>. ing picked and singed a pheasant, take out thoPHE [ 320 J PHE entrails, &c., through the crop. Take 1J lb. of trufHes, clean and pick them, cut them into pieces about the size of a nut, and mince the trim- mings very small; put ^ lb. of grated bacon, ^ lb. of butter, and the same of olive oil in a sauce- pan ; set them on the fire, and when hot put in the truffles; give them a few turns, then add a little salt, pepper, and spices; in about five minutes throw in the minced trimmings for a minute or two, then take off the pan, and when cold fill your pheasant with this through the crop; lay a very thin piece of bacon on the aper- ture, draw the skin over, truss the bird, tie it so that the truffles cannot escape, and put it between slices of bacon into a saucepan ; pour some poelee on it without the lemon juice, cover it with a piece of buttered paper, and let it simmer for an hour; then drain, untie it carefully, and place it on a dish. Mince two truffles, and give them a few turns in some butter, three ladlesful of Espagnole, and the same of fumet of game; reduce the sauce to half, and strain, and pour it on the bird. PHEASANT PIE, HOT RAISED. Take a couple of pheasants that have hung for some days, and, when picked and singed, cut them up, and give them a few turns in herbs. In the meantime make a raised crust about seven inches in diameter, and four in height, but smaller in the middle than at the top or bottom ; on the bottom and sides of this spread some good godiveau or fine farce, with two truffles minced small , lay the legs and back of the pheasants on this, then four or five truffles, each cut in half, then place the fillets and breast, more truffles, and so on till the birds are in ; pour over them the herbs in which they are cooked, cover the whole with two bay leaves and some slices of bacon, lay a paste on the top, ornament the exterior of the pie according to your fancy, and put into a brisk oven. Let the pie remain in the oven an hour and a half, drain off the fat, and pour in an Espagnole, with some minced truffles ; glaze the crust, and send it to table as soon as possible after it is taken out of the oven. PHEASANT PIE, STANDING. Bone three fine pheasants which have hung for some days, and lard them with lardons; then lay them open on the table, season with spiced salt, put in each two spoonsful of farce and a few truffles, and sew up each in the form of a ball. Take a stewpan the size you want to have your pie, line it completely with slices of ham and bacon^ on which lay the pheasants and a noix of veal, tied up that the form may be preserved ; add to these a sufficient quantity of spiced salt, the bones of the pheasants, some cuttings of veal and truffles, four onions stuck with three cloves, two carrots, a large bunch of parsley and scallions, a bay leaf, basil, thyme, a glass of Spanish wine, two ladlesful of good consomme, and four of other broth skimmings ; take care that your meat is covered with the liquor, put a buttered paper over the whole, and set it on the fire. "When it has boiled a few minutes take it off, put the saucepan on the stove, with fire on the lid, and leave it for an hour boiling constantly. When quite cold take out each article, adding the ham and bacon to a farce. Raise youj- crust as usual, and put into it a quarter of the farce; make it smooth, and having untied the veal, lay that in the pie ; strew a little spiced salt over, a third of the remaining farce, and four truffles, each cut in two; then take the threads from the phea- sants, trim them a little that they may lie in the pie without injuring the shape; put in a pinch of spiced salt and some truffles, cover them with the rest of the farce, in which put more truffles cut in halves; then add the butter, bay leaves, &c. Three hours and a half are sufiicient to bake this pie. When taken out of the oven pour in the consomme, previously strained through a cloth, and close the hole with a piece of paste. PHEASANT, SOUFFLfi OF. This dish is prepared in the same manner as Partridge, Souffle of. PHEASANT WITH TRUFFLES. Hav- ing larded and dressed the fillets au Chevalier, take the nerves from the small fillets, make half a dozen incisions in each, into which put a piece of truffle, having cut some in thin round slices, and divided them again into halves. All the small fillets being thus garnished, form them into semicircles, and lay them, with a little salt and pepper, between two slices of bacon; set them on a stove, and fry them lightly. Drain your large fillets, glaze and place them on a dish over a saute of truffles, lay the small fillets in the centre, and serve. PHEASANTS : To Boit,. If they are small birds half an hour will be sufficient; but if large, three quarters. They must be boiled in plenty of water. Make a sauce by stewing some heads of celery cut finely, and thickened with cream and a small piece of butter rolled in flour. When the birds are done pour this sauce over them, and garnish with <?lices of lemon. PHEASANTS : To Choose. The hen phea- sant is most valued when with egg, in which state the vent is soft; but if this happens to be open and green she is stale, and the same is the case when the skin peels on being rubbed hard with the finger and thumb. The cock pheasavit only has spurs, which, when the bird is young, are short, blunt, and round ; but if old they are long and sharp. The feet of pheasant poults, when new, are supple, and the vents white and IPIC [ 321 ] PHE stiff; but when stale the former are dry, and the latter green. PHEASANTS, CROQUETTES OF. Take the while meat from three pheasants (roasted), remove all the skin and nerves, and cut the meat into dice ; put a ladleful of bechamel into a saucepan, and reduce it to half; then add to it 2 ozs. of fresh butter, which must dissolve in the sauce without being put on the fire; strain it overthe minced pheasant,and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Mix the whole together well, and when cold lay it in heaps nearly as large as an egg; give them what shape you please, roll them in bread crumbs, after which soak them a minute in eggs beaten up with salt and butter; bread them a second time, and fry the croquettes in the usual way. . PHEASANTS, SALMIS OF. Take two cold roasted pheasants, cut them up, trim the pieces properly, take off all the skin, and put the limbs into a stewpan. Put the remains of the phea- sants into another saucepan, with a glass of white wine, four shallots, a little Seville orange- peel, half a clove of garlic, half a bay leaf, four spoonsful of Espagnole travaillee, a little glaze, and a spoonful of consomme ; reduce these, and then strain the sauce over the phea- sant ; make it hot in the bain-marie, but do not let it boil. Lay the pheasant in a dish, the smallest pieces first, and the more considerable ones round, intermixed with fried bread; squeeze the juice of a Seville orange into the sauce, which pour over the bird. PHOSPHORUS is a substance obtained from bones, and especially distinguished by its shining like the glowworm in the dark. Cha- racters drawn on paper with solid phosphorus will appear like a flame in the dark, though, in the light, a dense smoke only will be per- ceptible ; and, if such paper be held near the fire, the letters will immediately become black, and continue to be as legible as those formed with ink. Great caution, however, ought to be observed in making such experiments, because, if a particle of phosphorus be rubbed between two papers, they will immediately take fire, which cannot be easily extinguished : hence it will be advisable to keep this inflammable matter con- tinually immersed under water. In commerce it is always packed in tin cylinders, soldered air tight. It is a powerful corrosive poison. In a medicinal view phosphorus has a re- markable effect on the human frame, and, when administered with judgment and circumspection, forms a very powerful and valuable remedy. According to continental writers it has proved ot essential service in paralytic, epileptic, melancholic, and maniacal attacks; in every species of eruptive fevers, particularly in those where the eruption strikes in, and is accompanied Vt»x. XI. with anxiety, convulsions, and other nervous symptoms. It is given in doses of 1 grain, mixed with conserve of roses, or with any of the syrups. Farther, a variety of cases have lately been published, where phosphorus was administered internally with the greatest suc- cess in consumptive diseases; in malignant fevers, where it effectually checked the progress of gangrene; and especially contributed to the recovery of persons who had been reduced by intemperance. So potent a medicine, however, ought to be employed only with the utmost cau- tion, and unde/ the immediate superintendence of a competent judge. Baldwins phosphorus is ignited chloride of calcium; Canton phosphorus, oyster shells cal- cined with sulphur; Bologna phosphorus, cal- cined sulphate of baryta; Homberg's phosphorus, ignited chloride of calcium. All these phos- phoresce in the dark, after exposure to the solar rays. PHOSPHOROUS PILLS are a very effi- cient poison for rats and mice. PICKLE, HOT. Infuse 1 oz. of horse- radish, the same of allspice, the same of black pepper, and the same of salt, in a quart of the best white wine vinegar, in a stove, on a trivet by the side of the fire, for three days, keeping it well closed. When cold pour the pickle over it. PICKLE, INDIAN. One gallon of vinegar, 1 lb. of garlic, J lb. of long pepper split, ^ lb. of flour of mustard, 1 lb. of ginger scraped and split, and 2 ozs. of turmeric. When you have prepared the spice, and put it into the jar, pour the vinegar boiling hot over it, and stir every day for a week; then put in your cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you intend to pickle. PICKLE FOR MEAT. Six pounds of salt, 1 lb. of sugar, and 4 ozs. of saltpetre, boiled with four gallons of water, skimmed, and allowed to cool, forms a very strong pickle, which will preserve any meat completely immersed in it. To effect this, which is essential, either a heavy board or a flat stone must be laid upon the meat. The same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided it be boiled,up occasionally, with addi- tional salt to restore its strength, diminished by the combination of part of the salt with the meat, and by the dilution of the pickle by the juices of the meat extracted. By boiling, the albumen, which would cause the pickle to spoil, is coagu- lated, and rises in the form of scum, which must be carefully removed. An aitch-bone of 10 lbs. or 12 lbs. weight will require about | lb. of salt and 1 oz. of moist sugar to be well rubbed into it. It will bo ready in four or five days if turned and rubbed every day. The time meat requires salting depends upon the weight of it, and how much salt is used; XPIE [ 322 ] PIC and, if it be rubbed in with a heavy hand, it will be ready much sooner than if only lightly rubbed. N.B.—Dry the salt, and rub it with the sugar in a mortar. Pork requires a longer time to cure, in pro- portion to its weight, than beef. A leg of pork should be in salt eight or ten days. Turn and rub it every day. Salt meat should be well washed before it is boiled, especially if it has been in salt long, that the liquor in which the meat is boiled may not be too salt to make soup of. If it has been in salt a long time, and you fear that it will be too salt, wash it well in cold water, and soak it in lukewamn water for two hours. If it is very salt lay it in water the night before you intend to dress it. PICKLES. Pickles ought to be stored in a dry place, and the vessels most approved of for keeping them in are wide-mouthed glass bottles, or strong stoneware jars, having corks or bungs, which must be fitted in with linen, and covered with bladder or leather; and, for taking the pickles out and returning them to the jar, a small wooden spoon is kept. The strongest vinegar is used for pickling, that of cyder being more particularly recommended; but sugar vinegar will be generally found sufficiently sti'ong. It is essential to the excellence and beauty of pickles that they be always completely covered with vinegar. PICKLES FOR TONGUES. To four gallons and a half of water add 2^ lbs. of treacle, 8 lbs. of salt, and 2 ozs. of saltpetre ; boil it, and skim it until clear; sprinkle salt over the tongue, let it stand two days, and wipe it clean before you put it into the pickle, which must be quite cold; boil the pickle every two or three months, adding two or three handsful of salt, and skimming it well. Half the quantity is sufficient for two tongues. PICTURES. Unless pictures are really good they should never be admitted ; for the most exquisitely furnished apartments are dis- figured at once by vulgar, ill-painted portraits or unnatural landscapes glaring from the walls. Good pictures are so grateful to the eye, that it is quite distressing to see bad ones hung round a room; and although there is no disgrace in deficiency of taste, yet it need not be made conspicuous, or a subject of ridicule to others. So few people are really judges of paintings, that it is very rare indeed to meet with excel- lence ; but sometimes the specimens we see are of such a kind as to make us grieve for the total want of perception in the possessors. The effect of a neatly furnished sitting-room is injured by such a mistaken attempt at decora- tion, and all who are really fond of pictures are disconcerted. A few good pictures in a room embellish it greatly—the eye seldom wearies of gazing : even one single picture, if of merit, is a perpetual source of mental pleasure, and may almost be called a companion. A taste for pictures, how- ever, should be severely controlled ; it is one of great and dangerous expense; and, beautiful as they are, it always seems blamable to suspend, so many guineas upon our walls, which might be doing so much more good than simply pleasing our senses. The price of pictures is never returned to us. We buy them for our pleasure, but their sale again is influenced by so many circumstances that the half of what we gave for them is often more than we receive. If they are ours by gift or bequest we may more satisfactorily enjoy them; but their pur- chase is such a sinking fund, and the possessiorx so great a luxury, that we ought to act with the utmost caution, and consider our means most strictly in this branch of " home " concerns. Paintings and engi-avings should never occupy the same room, nor should frames of different sorts be mingled ; and pictures should be placed on the walls wdth as much attention to order as their size and shape will pei'mit. These ap- parently trifling considerations are frequently disregarded, and the appearance of a room, and even that of the pictures themselves, is injured by the jumbling together of black frames with oak and gilded ones, just as they hapjDen to come to hand. A very little management might prevent this, and the improved effect would be obvious. PIE, RAISED (to be Served Cold). Bone some chickens, partridges, or pheasants, the number according to the size you intend to make your pie ; be particularly careful that no particle of bone remains, and that you do not break the skin; when the whole is boned, with pepper and salt spiinkled in, fill it well with the forcemeat made of chicken livers {see Forcemeat for Pies), and lay in long slips of lean- ham, truffles, and fat livers; then close your chicken, or whatever it may be, by drawing the skin of the neck over the part that is opened; raise your pie the same as the receipt for Raised Pies (to be Served Hot), only let the crust be much thicker, and secure all the joining parts. When so far done cut some large thin slices of fat bacon, lay them first at the bottom, then all round the sides ; make what you intend to put in as near the shape of the pie as you possibly can by filling up every part, that there may be no cavity under the meat, or it may occasion your pie to fall or lose its shape. When all is put in cover it well over with fat bacon, and lay three bay leaves on the top. For gravy put in some liquor in which the truffles have been stewed, or some goodPIE [ 323 ] PIG strong veal or beef braise ; egg the edge of tbe pie round, and lay on a good thick cover, joining it well to the edge, that being a great support to the pie ; then neatly trim it all round ; form on the top of the crust a star of leaves, with a hole in the centre; on the sides festoons, leaves, or gar- lands, according to your own taste ; egg it lightly over, and bake it in a hot, regularly heated oven. A small-sized pie will take about four hours' baking, a larger pie accordingly. Take care, on first putting it in, that it does not catch or burn, which it is apt to do, and in that case have plenty of paper to lay over it. Before the pie is quite done set on some good consomme or veal braise, and let it boil till it becomes very strong; pour it into the pie as soon as it is taken out of the oven, and set it to cool. If the nexjt day it should appear to have taken all the gravy, more must be added. It had better stand three or four days before it is served. You may, for a change, take off the cover, and in its place sprinkle some clear savoury jelly on the top. This is a good dish for the side table. PIE, RAISED (to be Served Hot). Make a stiff paste as directed for raised pies [see Paste), which mix with warm water ; when thoroughly mixed and blended together roll it out tolerably thin, cut a piece out for the bottom, and two for the sides, according to the shape of your dish ; egg the edges of the part you intend to join, and press them well together, so that the joining may not be perceptible ; shape it, and garnish it with leaves or festoons, according to your own taste ; fill it nearly to the top with bran, egg it, and let it be baked in a moderate oven. When done a fine light colour turn out the bran, and set it ready for what you intend to put in, which may be either cutlets or mutton stewed with vegetables, partridges farced with a brown sauce, chicken cut up with a ragout in a brown sauce, stewed carp or eels, &c. PIE PETHEVIERS. Take eight dozen of iarks, and having picked and singed them, split them open, take out the intestines, which (except the gizzards) mix with bread crumbs and 2 lbs. of the following farce :—Take equal quantities of fillets of veal and bacon, mince them, and season them with pepper, salt, and spices ; then pound them and the intestines, adding occasionally small quantities of jelly to keep it of a proper consistence, and fill the bodies of the larlts with it. Take about 2 lbs. of paste for raised crusts ; raise it as usual, making it either square or round as you may think proper; lay a bed of farce at the bottom of it, on which place the larks, well seasoned, and each wrapped in a thin slice of bacon ; put some butter worked with flour over ; cover the whole with slices of bacon, two bay leaves, and the top crust; fix the edges together, ornamenting the to^ and sides according to your taste ; dorez, and bake it for two hours and a half. Serve it cold. Woodcocks, snipes, or any other small birds, may be used instead of larks. PIE, SQUAB. (See Devonshire Squash Pie.) Take a few good baking apples; pare, core, and slice them ; chop some onions very small; line a deep dish with paste, put in a layer of the apples, and strew a little sugar and some of the chopped onions over them; season them, and lay lean mutton chops, also seasoned, more onions, then the apples, &c., as before, and so oa till the dish is quite full. Cover and bake the pie. PIG, BAKED. Lay your pig in a dish, flour it well all over, then rub it over with butter, butter the dish you lay it in, and put it into the oven. When done enough take it out, and rub it over with a buttered cloth; put it again into the oven till it is dry, then take it out and lay it in a dish; cut it up, take a little veal gravy, and, on removing the fat in the dish it was baked in, there will be some good gravy at the bottom ; put that to the veal gravy, with a small piece of butter rolled in flour; boil it up, put it in a dish in which the pig has been laid, and put the brains, with some sage, into the belly. Some persons like a pig to be brought to the table whole, in which case you are only to put what sauce you like into the dish. PIG, BARBICUED. Scald, &c., a pig of about nine or ten weeks old the same as for roasting; make a stuffing with a few sage leaves, the liver of the pig, and two anchovies boned, washed, and cut extremely small; put them into a mortar, with some bread crumbs, Jib. of butter, a very little Cayenne pepper, and half a pint of Madeira wine; beat them to a paste, and sew it up in the pig; lay it a good distance before a brisk fire, singe it well, put two bottles of Madeira wine into the dripping-pan, and keep basting it all the time it is roasting. When half done put two French rolls into the dripping- pan, and if there is not wine enough in the dripping-pan add more. When the pig is nearly done take the rolls and sauce, and put them into a saucepan, with an anchovy cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, and the juice of a lemon ; take up the pig, send it to table with an apple in its mouth and a roll on one side, then strain the sauce over it. Some barbicue a pig of six or seven weeks old, stick it all over with blanched almonds, and baste it in the same manner with Madeira wine. PIG, COLLARED. Take a fine young roasting pig, and, as soon as it is killed, dress off the hair and draw it; wash it clean, rip it open from one end to the other, and completely bone it; rub it all over with pepper and salt, a little cloves and mace beaten fine, some sage leaves and sweet herbs chopped fine; then bind it up.PIG PIG [ 324 1 Fill the pot you mean to boil it in with soft water, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some peppercorns, cloves, mace, a handful of salt, and a pint of vinegar. When the liquor boils put in the pig, and let it boil till tender ; take it up, and when almost cold bind it over again ; put it in an earthen pan, pour the liquor that it was boiled in over it, and keep it covered. When you want to use it take it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far as you want to cut it, and then cut it in slices, which lay in your dish. Garnish with parsley. PIG DRESSED LIKE HOUSE LAMB. Take the fore-quarter of a pig about six weeks old, skin and truss it as a fore-quarter of lamb, floiir it, sprinkle it over with a little salt, and send it to table nicely frothed. W^ith mint sauce or salad it will eat like lamb. When it comes to table cut off the shoulder, and squeeze the juice of a Seville orange over it. The hind- quarter of it is very good roasted in the same wav. PIG EN GELATINE. Well scald a pig. bone it, and extend it on a linen cloth ; then lay over it a good meat stuffing, seasoned ac- cording to taste ; put over the stuffing, wliicli should be laid on about the thickness of a crown, first a layer of ham cut in thin slices, and then a layer of hard eggs; cover the layers ■with a little forcemeat, roll up the pig, being careful not to displace the layers, and cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, wrapping the whole in a filtering cloth; wind some pack- thread tightly round it, and let it boil for three hours in equal quantities of stock and white wine, adding salt and coarse pepper, some roots and onions, a large bunch of parsley, shallots, a clove of garlic, cloves, thyme, bay leaves, and basil. When done leave it to cool in the stock, and serve cold. You may add, if you think proper, a layer of truffles. PIG IN JELLY. Take a pig, and cut it into quarters, which put into a stewpan, with a pint of Rhenish or Lisbon wine, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, and a few cloves : let it stew over a slow fire for two hours. After it has stewed this time take it up, lay the pig in a dish, sti-ain the liquor, and when it is cold skim off the fat, leaving the settlijigs at the bottom ; warm the jelly again, and pour it over the pig. Serve it up cold in the jelly. PIG OLIVES. Bone and cut off the head of a fine pig, take a part of the flesh, and mince it with some beef suet; then pound these with some bread crumbs, parsley, shallots, mushrooms (all shred), and add sonre creiim, a spoonful of brandy, the yolks of six eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cut the skin of the pig into pieces, in each of which roll some of the farce; tie up the olives, and cook them in some stock ; add a glass of white wine and a few slices of peeled lemon. Serve the olives with any sauce you may think proper. PIG, ROASTED (Sauce for). Take a pint of water, put therein a good slice of crumb of bread, a blade of mace, and a little whole pepper ; boil these together for about five or six minutes, and then pour off the water ; remove the spices, and beat up the bread with a piece of butter and a little milk or cream. To this currants may also be added, if approved of, by boiling them in a glass of wine and a little sugar; or put to half a pint of good beef gravy, and that which comes from the pig, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and two spoonsful of catsup ; boil them together; then take the brains of the pig, bruise ihem with sage, and pour the whole into your dish. PIG, ROASTING: ToCarye. SeeCxsvim: Pig, Roasted. PIG, ROULADES OF Scald a fine suck- ing pig, and having cut off the head and feet, bone and cut it into quarters; make a force- meat with grated bacon, bread crumbs, parsley, shallots, mushrooms (shred small), three yolks of eggs, pepper, and salt, put some of this on each quarter, roll and tie them up, and braise them in white wine stock. When done take them out, skim and strain the sauce, add to it a little cullis and lemon juice, and pour it over the roulades. PIG, SUCKING (Roasted). A sucking pig IS in prime order for the spit when it is about three weeks old. It loses part of its goodness every hour after it is killed : if not quite fresh no art can make the crackling crisp. PIG, SUCKING. To Scald. The instant the pig is killed put it for a few minutes in cold water ; then pound a little resin extremely fine, rub the pig all over with it, and then put it for half a minute into a pail of scalding water ; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off the hairs as quickly as possible: if any part does not come off put it in again. When quite clean off wash it well with warm water, and afterwards in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint, make a slit down the belly, and tal^e out the entrails ; put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. PIG, SUCKING: To Stuff. Having scalded a pig, singe and bone it to the head, which leave whole. Take 1 lb. of calf's liver and 1 lb. of bacon; mince these with a little sage, pounded spice, aromatic herbs, salt, and pepper; fill up the body of the pig with this; also roll in it some lardons, and lard the limbs and back of the pig , sew in the farce, and rub the whole body with lemon; lay in a cloth somof>IG PIG [ 325 ] eage and four bay leaves, cover the back of the pig with slices of bacon, place it in the cloth, and tie it up; put it into a saucepan, pour on it equal quantities of good stock and white wine, and let it simmer for three hoin-s and a half over a moderate fire ; then take it off, and leave it in the saucepan: in an hour's time take it out and press it carefully, so that the shape may not be spoiled. Do not remove the cloth until perfectly cold. Lay a folded napkin on a dish, and serve the pig on it. PIG, TIMBALE OF. Take out the bones and flesh of a nice pig without injuring the skin ; miuce the meat with truffles, ham, bacon, parsley, and shallots: when minced soak it in oil, pepper, and salt. Lay the skin open in a small stewpan, place the farce on it, close the skin round it, and cover it with slices of bacon ; fill the stewpan with good stock, a pint of white wine, sliced carrots, onions, parsley, shallots, garlic, cloves, bay leaf, and thyme. Let it thoi-oughly stew, and serve it either hot or cold. If the latter it must be more highly seasoned, left to cool in the braise, and then turned out on a folded napkin. When sent to table hot serve a sauce Espagnole with it. PIGEON CUTLETS. Take the fillets of six pigeons; remove the thin skin, and beat them very little; take the pinion-bones, clean them, and run them into each of the fillets, giving itthe form of a cutlet; dip them into an Anglaise, that is, the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little butter; then dip them in bread crumbs, put them upon the grill, and give them a good colour. When they are sufficiently done dish them in consomme ; eauce them with beef juice or thick blond de veau; add to the last a little large pepper, and the juice of a lemon or two. These cutlets or fillets may be made an entree of, as a timbale, a pate ohaud, or en papillottes. If for the last the cutlets must be cut in two. PIGEON PIE. Chop some parsley and lemon thyme with a few mushrooms; stew these in a little butter, into which put half a dozen young pigeons, with pepper and salt in their insides, and their legs turned in ; stew them for a few minutes, and then turn them. When they begin to fry put in sufficient consomme to cover them, in which let them stew till they are well done; then take them from the fire to cool. In the meantime make a good puff paste, part of which roll out, and place round the edge of a dish; lay the pigeons in, with the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and pour over them half of the liquor they were stewed in; add a little pepper and salt, and then lay on the top paste, trimming it neatly round the same as any other pie. On the top form a star of leaves with a hole in the centre ; egg it lightly over, and put it to bake in a moderate oven, taking care that it has not too much colour. When done add, to the liquor that remained from the pigeons a little butter sauce, make it very hot, and pour it on the pie. Serve it hot, either for a remove or a side dish. PIGEON SOUP. Take three plump pigeons, and truss them as for boiling; run a skewer through the head and neck, and keep it upright; then scald and boil them in broth and veal gravy, to which add roots and herbs cut in small pieces; season the whole well, and stew it over a slow fire. When done pour the soup into a tureen, and place the pigeons in it with the heads upwards. PIGEON, WILD (Poelee). Take three or four wild pigeons, truss them with their feet inwards, and line a stewpan with slices of bacon, a thin one of ham, a seasoned bouquet, two onions stuck with cloves, two carrots cut in slices, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme ; put in the pigeons, cover with bacon, and set the whole on a brisk fire. As soon as it boils place it in a stove, with a moderate fire under and over, and let it stand three quarters of an hour; then drain and serve it with a poivi'ade. PIGEON, WOOD. The wood-pigeon is large, and the flesh of a dark colour. It is chosen by the same rules as the tame pigeon. If the wood-pigeon is properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. It should be served with a good gravy. PIGEONS : To Boil. The craw should be taken out as clean as possible, after which the birds must be washed in several waters; then the pinions are to be cutoff, and the legs turned under the wings. Boil them slowly a quarter of an hour, then dish and pour over them some melted butter, and lay around a little broccoli. Serve them with parsley and butter. Other accompaniments may be bacon with greens, spinach, or asparagus. PIGEONS : To Broil. Clean them well, pepper and salt them, lay over a gridiron on a slow clear fire, turn them often, and put some butter in the bellies. When done throw over them some stewed or pickled mushrooms, cat- sup, or melted butter. Garnish with fried crumbs or sippets of bread. PIGEONS : To Cabve. The birds may be Fig. I. Fig. 2. either cut in two lengthways, or across the middle from h to c, fig. 1; but the best methodPIG [ 326 ] PIG of dividing is from the neck to the point a. Fig. 2 represents the back of the pigeon, and the insertion of the knife is at a, and cut to b and c, when each portion may be divided into two pieces, and helped. PIGEONS : To Choose. These birds should be very fresh ; therefore observe that if the vent is discoloured, and the parts about it are flabby, the pigeon is stale; if the feet are harsh and dry the bird is old, but if supple it is young. Tame pigeons are larger than wild ones, and are generally preferred to them. They should be fat and tender; but many persons are apt to be imposed upon in regard to the size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. PIGEONS: To Roast. Scald some parsley, and chop it with the pigeons' livers; mix them with a piece of fresh butter, and season with pepper and salt; put a portion inside each pigeon, cover the breast with a slice of bacon fat, and roast them. Serve with parsley and butter in the dish. PIGEONS : To Truss. Cut off the neck next to the back ; take out the crop, separate the vent, and draw out the guts and gizzard, but not the liver. If the birds are to be roasted the toes must be cut off, a slit made in one of the legs, and the other put through it. Draw the legs tightly to the pinions, and thrust a skewer quite through the body, so as to secure to it both wings and legs. Flatten the breast, clean the gizzard, put it on one of the pinions, and turn the point on the back. If the pigeons are to be stewed, boiled, or made into a pie, the feet must be cut off at the joints, the legs turned and fastened on the sides, close to the pinions. PIGEONS A LA BRUNSWICK. Take half a dozen small pigeons, which braise with slices of bacon and a little lemon juice; roast some truffles on hot ashes, and blanch some whole artichoke bottoms in a little stock. Make a farce with veal sweetbreads, fat livers, streaked bacon, breast of fowl or game minced, and give these a few turns with some good stock, the yolks of eggs, and rich cream. Put a layer of this farce on a dish, then place the artichoke bottoms, in each of which stick a truffle, and between each a pigeon, and a slice of veal glazed on the latter ; cover the whole with the remainder of the farce, and pour over it some veal gravy. PIGEONS A LA CASSEROLE. Truss your pigeons with the-feet inwards, and having put some butter into a stewpan, lay in the pigeons, breast downwards; as soon as it is melted season it with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatic herbs; set the pan on a brisk fire, turn the birds every ten minutes for the space of half an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them ; then put them on a dish, take three-fourths of the butter from the pan, mix with the remainder a little flour, the juice of a lemon or two spoonsful of vinegar, and half a glass of water; boil up twice, and then pour it over the birds. PIGEONS A LA CHARMANTE. Scald half a dozen small pigeons, and braise them with a few slices of bacon and lemon, a bundle of herbs, a proper quantity of stock, pepper, and salt. In the meantime lard three or four sweetbreads, which stew slowly in a little broth, with some thin slices of veal, a bundle of herbs, two cloves, basil, and two or three scallions. As soon as they are done skim, strain, and reduce the liquor, and glaze the sweetbreads with it; then lay them on a dish alternately with the pigeons, over which pour a sauce made as follows :—-Put a little consomme into the pan with glaze, stir it round to gather what may adhere to the bottom, then strain, and add more pepper and salt if requisite; squeeze in a little lemon juice. Take care none of the sauce goes on the sweetbreads, as it would spoil the look of the glaze. ■ PIGEONS, COMPOTE OF. Truss and tie into proper form three pigeons ; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, add to it a dessert-spoon- ful of flour, and make a roux, in which brown some slices of streaked bacon ; pour on the pigeons a ladleful and a half of water, with some parsley, scallions, a bay leaf, mushroom, salt, and pepper; stir well till it boils, skim it, and when the pigeons are three parts done put in some small onions well picked, and previously done up in a little butter and drained. Lay the birds in a dish, and garnish with the onions and bacon. PIGEONS A LA CRAPAUDINE. Split the pigeons down the back, and flatten them with- out breaking the bones ; rub them with oil, salt, pepper, parsley, and chives, the whole chojiped finely, making them take the seasoning as much as possible ; then cover them with crumbs of bread or raspings, and broil them over a slow fire. When well browned serve them with a sauce of veijuice or vinegar, salt, pepper, shallots chopped up, and warmed with a piece of butter. PIGEONS IN CREAM. Truss for boiling; blanch and put them into a stewpan -with a piece of butter; harden without browning; dredge in a little flour, moisten with stock, and season as in Pigeons, Compote of ; add a handful of nice mushrooms and onions. When ready pour off the sauce, reduce, thicken with a little rich cream, add yolks or not, and a little nutmeg, and serve as above. PIGEONS, FRICASSEE OF. Cut someP I G [ 327 ] PI G young pigeons into quarters, which tlanch for a quarter of an hour in warm water; then dry them well, and give them a few turns in melted hutter; add half a pint of good stock, a little pepper and salt, and, when nearly done, half a glass of champagne, with a few morels dressed in veal gravy. Serve your fricassee very hot. , PIGEONS AU GRATIN. Prepare and scald three or four pigeons, a sweetbread, and two fat livers (also scalded), two or three articlioke bottoms parboiled, a few mushrooms, a slice of ham, parsley, scallions, thyme, half a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, and two cloves; fry these lightly in a proper quantity of butter, and then add gravy, a glass of white Avine, a little stock, whole pepper, and salt; let the whole simmer slowly, and when done skim it well; pour half the sauce into a dish that will bear the heat, and set it on a brisk fire to form the gratin ; then put in the pigeons, &c., and let it stand ; squeeze a little lemon juice into the remainder of the sauce, pour the whole over, and serve. PIGEONS, HOTCHPOTCH OF. Take two or three good-sized pigeons; truss and boil them over a slow fire in some stock, with carrots, parsni})S, celery, small onions (all pre- viously scalded), parsley, shallots, thyme, a bay leaf, pepper, and salt. When done place the pigeons in a deep dish, with the roots, &c., arranged around, and serve with a Spanish sauce. PIGEONS IN JELLY. Pick two very nice pigeons, and make them look as well as possible by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the toes. Pioast them of a very nice brown, and when done put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Having ready a savourj'jelly, with it half fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish j'ou mean the pigeons to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold see that no gravy hangs to the latter, and then lay them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it Legins to set pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done at least twenty-four hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course; or, when served with the jelly rough, it makes a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs must be bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. PIGEONS WITH MARROW. Truss three or four large pigeons for roasting, and stuff them with a farce made of beef marrow, two anchovies, shallots, parsley, tan-agon leaves (all shred very small), seasoned with pepper and nutmeg, and bcu id together with the yolks of two eggs. Wrap the birds in slices of bacon and paper; roast and serve them with a sauce made as follows:—Take a little cullis, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, two slices of peeled lemon, some bruised rocamboles, salt, and pepper ; boil for twenty or thirty minutes till of a good consistence, strain, add a little butter, simmer a minute or two, and then pour it into the dish under the pigeons. PIGEONS WITH ONIONS. Cut a dozen large onions into dice, which put into a stewpan with plenty of butter; set them on the fire, and keep stirring till they are done. When cold mix with them the yolks of three eggs, a little grated bacon, two chopped anchovies, a pinch of pounded aniseed, salt, and pepper. In the meantime, having braised some pigeons, cover each completely with the above preparation, and then with veal caul, which fix together with white of egg; roll them in bread crumbs, place them on a dish, pour a few drops of oil or melted butter over, and bake them. Serve them with a sauce composed of cullis and consomme. PIGEONS AS ORTOLANS. Cover your pigeons so completely with small slices of bacon, placed like scales, that the feet can barely be seen; give them a few turns in the satice a I'atelet, then fasten them to a spit, and roast before a clear fire. A very short time is suf&cient. PIGEONS WITH PARMESAN. Take the livers of as many pigeons as you intend to dress, mince them with grated bacon, add a few spoonsful of broth, and set them on a slow fire to simmer. When done take out the pigeons, and put in a little cullis ; give it a boil, and then strain it. Put some of this sauce into a dish for table, grate some Parmesan cheese into it, and then put in the birds; set the dish on hot ashes, pour in more sauce, grate cheese over, and colour it with a salamander. PIGEONS AND PEAS. Truss the pigeons for boiling. After boiling the gizzards, put them, with the hearts and livers, into the bodies, with a piece of butter, pepper, and salt; stiffen them in butter over the fire ; cut some fine streaked bacon into dice, and steep out the salt for an hour; put it to get a good colour in the butter, drain it out, and put in flour to make a roux r let it be very white. Put in the pigeons and lard, turn them in the roux, moisten by little and little with good stock, bring it to the consistence of sauce, and keep turning till it boils ; season with parsley, scallions, a clove of garlic, and a clove; set them on the side of the stove to simmer, and when half done put in a pint or quart of young peas : shake them often. When done, if the sauce is too thin, pour it off and reduce it; skim, and add pepper and salt; dish, and pour the sauce over. This dish may be served with the bacon alone when there are no peas, orPIG L 328 ] PIG with onions, cucum'bers, celery, turnips, French beans, or any other vegetable. PIGEONS, PICKLED. Bone them, turn the inside out, and lard them ; season with a little all- spice and salt in fine powder, turn them again, and tie the neck and rump together ; put them into boiling water, and let them boil a minute or two to plump. After this take them out, and thoroughly dry them; then put them into a pickle, which should be made of equal quantities of white wine and white wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, and a few bay leaves. When it boils up put the pigeons into it. If they are small a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to do them, but if they are large they will require twenty minutes; then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. As soon as the pickle is cold take off the fat, and put them jn again. Keep them in a stone jar tied down closely, so that the air may be excluded. Instead of larding put in some stuffing made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. PIGEONS, POTTED. Be very particular that they are quite fresh, clean them thoroughly, and season with salt and pepper; lay them close together in a small deep pan, for the smaller the surface, and the more closely they are packed, the less quantity of butter is re- quired ; cover them with butter, tie them over in a thick paper, and bake them. When cold put them to dry in pots that will hold two or three in each, and pour butter over them, using that which is baked as part. Observe that the butter is pretty thick over them if they are done for keeping. The pigeons would lie more closely, and want less butter, if they were boned, and put in a pot in an oval form. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and they will eat extremely well. If a high seasoning is approved of add tnace, allspice, and a little Cayenne pepper before baking. PIGEONS POTTED WHOLE. Bone, truss, and pack them in a deep pan, with pepper, salt, a little fine powder of thyme, or any sweet herbs tha,t may be agreeable, and a clove of garlic bruised and rubbed into the salt and spices; cover with butter, and bake them, well covered. While they are yet warm put them into the pots they are to be pre- Bented in (these pots ought to have close covers), press them well down, and lay a weight upon them. When cold put a little of the butter they were baked in over them. If mushrooms can be had, pack them with the pige.»ns, or stuff them with them. The ex- travagant manner of potting whole birds, it is to be hoped, will fall into disuse. All birds that are potted should be boned, as they cut with less waste, and keep better. PIGEONS, SALMIS OF. Cut up three or four cold roasted pigeons, and put them into a stewpan, with a little veal and ham, five or six carrots, and an old partridge ; let them stand on a slow fire till they stick to the pan ; then moisten them with champagne, good consomme, veal gravy, a bay leaf, salt, and pepper ; cover the whole closely, and reduce it. When done (and a short time is sufficient), serve it very hot, with trufSes, morels, sliced lemons, and, if you like them, a few larks. PIGEONS, STEWED. Make a stuffing with livers parboiled and bruised, a piece of butter, a few bread crumbs, pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, sweet herbs chopped, and yolk of egg ; fill the pigeons, tie them at each end, half roast or fry them, put them into some good gravy or beef broth, with an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a slice of lemon; let them stew gently till tender; strain the sauce, skim off the fat, and put to it pickled mushrooms, Cayenne, forcemeat balls, and hard yolks of eggs. The pigeons may be larded. PIGEONS, STUFFED. Make a farce with any remnants of fowl you may happen to have, some veal sweetbreads, truffles (all chopped small), pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and yolks of eggs; fill the pigeons with this, and put them into a pan with some melted butter. In a quarter of an hour cover the pan closely, and let them stand till done, turning them occasionally. PIGEONS, TIMBALE OF. Take as many young pigeons as you intend to have timbales, and give them a few turns with any mateiials jon please. Make a paste with flour, beef suet sliced small, yolks of eggs, salt, and water, and keep it rather firm; line your moulds (having buttered them well) with this, put a pigeon in each, cover them with paste, and bake them. When done make a small hole in the top of every one, through which pour some veal gravy. Serve them hot. PIGEONS, WILD (A l'Etouffade). Take three wild pigeons, and laid them with bacon rolled in salt, pepper, parsley, shallot, basil (all shred fine), spices, and aromatic herbs; then put the birds into a stewpan between slices of bacon ; add a thin slice of ham, two onions stuck with cloves, a carrot sliced, a seasoned bouquet, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme; let them be thoroughly done, and then dish them. Strain the sauce over, and serve them. PIGEONS, WILD (en Marinade). The pigeons being ready for dressing, cut them in halves or quarters, and soak them in a light marinade. When they have lain in this forPIG PIG [ 329 ] eome time drain and dip them in batter, fry them of a nice colour, and serve them with fiied parsley. PIG'S CHEEK. Take off the snout, and thoroughly clean the head; divide it, and take out the eyes and brains; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it strain for four-and-twenty hours. Well salt it with common salt and saltpetre, and, if it is to be dressed without stewing with peas, it must lie in salt for eight or ten days ; but if to be dressed with peas it need not lie in salt so long, and it must be washed first, and then simmered till tender. PIGS' EARS, BROILEn. Having slightly salted the ears, boil them in some good stock, with salt, pepper, coriander, tarragon, streaked bacon, and half a glass of white wine. When done split them in two towards the thick part, rub them lightly with some of their own fat, bread them all over, and colour them on the gridiron. PIGS' EARS, CAKE OF. Take fifteen or eighteen pigs' ears, aiad having singed and cleansed them thoroughly, cut them in halves, and put them into a pan, with a layer of bacon, clear salted water, juniper, coriander, bay leaf, cloves, thyme, and saltpetre ; cover the pan with a cloth; garlic, basil, sage, and ^ oz. of salt, and lay another pan on the top ; leave them in this eight or ten days, then drain and put them into a braising-pan with water, a bottle of white wine, and a glass oi brandy; simmer them: in about five hours take them off the fire. When nearly cold drain and arrange the ears in layers in a well-tinned mould alternately with pieces of tongue d Vecarlate. When full cover and put a weight on it, keep the mould as even as possible, let it cool, turn it out, and serve the cake with icily. . PIGS'EARS, STUFFED AND ROASTED. Make a farce of streaked bacon, veal, poultry, or game (minced), sweet herbs shred small, bread soaked m. cream, salt, and spices ; with this farce stuff as many half-boiled pigs' ears as you may require. Take an equal number of large slices of bacon, spread a layer of the farce over each, and tie an eai in every slice; cover them well with bread crumbs, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before 3 slow fire, basting with their own gravy. PIGS'FEET AND EARS, FRICASSEED. If they are to be dressed with cream no vinegar should be put into the pickle. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them in a little milk; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a piece of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before serving add a little cream, flour, butter, and salt. PIGS' FEET AND EARS, PICKLED. ■Wash the feet and gairs very clean, and between every foot put a bay leaf. When they are well soaked add some cloves, mace, coriander seed, and ginger ; put a bottle of white wine to three pairs of feet and ears, some bay leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let them boil gently till they are tender, then take them out of the liquor, and lay them in an earthen pan. When cold take off the fat, and strain the liquor over them. They eat well cold, or warmed with jelly, thick- ened with butter rolled in flour; or take the feet and ears out of the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, and then in crumbs of bread, and broil them or fry them in butter. Lay the ears in the middle, and the feet i-ound, or ragout them. PIGS' FEET AND EARS, RAGOIJT OF. Take them out of the pickle, split the feet, dip them in egg, then in bread crumbs and chopped parsley, fiy them in lard, and drain them; cut the ears into long narrow slips, flour them, and put them into good gravy; add catsup, morels, and pickled mushrooms; stew them, pour them into a dish, and lay the feet upon them. PIGS' FEET AND EARS, SOUSED. Clean them, and boil them until they are tender; then split the feet, and put them and the ears in salt water. When you use them dry them well in a cloth, dip them in batter, fry them, and send them to table with melted butter in a boat. They may be eaten cold, and will keep a considerable time. PIGS'-FEET JELLY. Clean and prepare them the same as for fricasseeing, then boil them in a small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in a handful of chopped sage, a handful of chopped parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace in fine powder. Simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon form. PIGS' FEET WITH TRUFFLES. Cut the feet in halves, tie and dress them as directed for Pigs" Pettitoes a la Ste, Menehould, but when they have simmered eight hours remove them from the fire. When about half cold take them out of the sauce, and bone them. Make a farce as follows :— Take equal portions of the white parts of cold roasted fowl, crumb of bread, and half-dressed calf's udder; pound then) all, at first separately, and then altogether. Mix them with the yolks of three or foui oggs, some minced truffles, a little cream, salt, pejiper, and spices : these being well amalgamated, add a few truffles cut in slices. Put this farce into the spaces left by the bones, and cover with either calf or pig's caul; keep the feet in their proper form, dip them in melted butter, and bread them. About twenty minutes before serving broil them slowly on both sides Serve them without sauce.[ 330 PIL VIG PIGS' HARSLET. Wash and dry some livers, sweetbreads, and some fat and lean pieces of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make them tender ; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion shred finely. When mixed put all into a caul, fasten it tightly with a needle and thread, and roast it by a jack or a string. PIG'S HEAD, COLLARED. Very nicely scour the head and ears; take off the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and brains; let it lie for one night in water; then drain it, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie for five days. Boil it sufficiently to take out the bones; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thick end of the other, fo make the roll of an equal size; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears ; and if you think proper put the pig's feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of a couple of cow-heels. Put it into a cloth, bind with broad tape, and boil it till quite tender; then put it under a weight, and do not take off the covering till quite cold, If you wish it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater; put in also some pieces of lean pork, and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. This will keep in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled with vinegar. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it either with or without batter. PIGS' PETTITOES A LA STE. MENfi- HOULD. Well clean and wash the pettitoes, then line the bottom of a stewpan with an onion and a carrot cut in slices, a few peppercorns, parsley, a clove of garlic, and a bay leaf; over these lay bards of fat bacon, then place the pettitoes regularly over, then a fresh layer of bacon, then pettitoes again, and baeon over them; add some good beef stock, lay a round piece of paper close on the top, cover, and put them to stew between two fires very gently till thoroughly done; then take them off, and when they are cool toss them in eggs, .with pepper and salt; do them over with bread crumbs, and lay them on paper; then dip them in clarified butter, and do them over with bread crumbs a second time; lay them on the gridiron, and grill them a fine light brown; dish them up, and serve under them a good remolade sauce. PIGS' TONGUES, SMOKED. Take as many pigs' tongues as you please, take out the horny parts, and scald them sufficiently to enable you to remove the first skin ; put them as closely together as you can into a jar, rubbing each with salt and a little saltpetre; add basil, bay leaf, thyme, and juniper berries; place some- thing heavy on the top to press them down, fill all the interstices with salt, cover the jar \ery closely, and set it in a cool place. In a week's time take out the tongues, drain and tie them in skins like black puddings, and smoke them. When the tongues are required for table boil them in water, with a little wine, a bunch of parsley, scallions, onions, thyme, bay leaf, and basil. Serve them cold. PIKE : To Choose. When this fish is in perfection the colours are very tine, being green, spotted with yellow, and the gills of a vivid red. When out of season—that is, from December to June—the green changes to grey, and the yellow spots assume a paler hue. To judge of its freshness attend to the preceding rules. For some modes of cooking this fish see Jack. PIKE ; To Roast. Scale and wash the fish, lard it with eels rolled in sweet herbs and spicery, and roast it unbent; or fasten its tail in the mouth, baste it with butter, and strew over it crumbs of bread. Serve it up with anchovy or oyster sauce PIKE . To Stew. Make a browning with butter and flour, and put it into the pan, with a pint of red wine, four cloves, twelve small onions parboiled, and some pepper and salt; cut the fish in pieces, and stew the whole gently. When done take it out, and add to the sauce two anchovies, and a spoonful of capers chopped small; boil it a few minutes, and poiu' it over the pike. Garnish with fried bread. PILCHARD PIE. Skin and clean the white part of some large leeks, scald the same in milk and water, and dispose them in layers in the dish; between these place two or three salted pilchards which have been previously soaked in water for some hours, and cover the whole with a plain crust. On taking the pie out of the oven lift up the lid, pour off the. liquor, and substitute in its stead half a pint of cream. This pie is peculiar to Cornwall, and there are few persons, we apprehend, out of that county, who could digest such a strong dish. It may be adduced as an illustration of the proverb that " the devil is afraid to go into Cornwall, lest he should he seized, and made into a pie." PILCHARDS. These fish have a near affinity to the herring, but are a distinct species, and much smaller. The rule for judging them IS the same Pilchards arrive on the coast of Cornwall, and nowhere else, in July, and retire at the beginning of winter. They always come in large shoals, and are taken in nets in such numbers that ship-loads were formerly sent every year into the Mediterranean. They also yield a great quantity of oil, which is used for various purposes. Sprats visit the eastern coast when the herrings ai'e about to disappear, that is, at[ 331 } PIM PIL the begitining of November, whicli may he one reason why they are supposed by some to be the young of that fish. They continue all the winter, and are sometimes substituted for anchovies; but the bones do not dissolve so easily, and the flesh is of a more oily nature. PILES. See Hemorrhoids. PILLAU FOR FOWLS. Truss for boiling a turkey, capon, or fowl, and cover the breast with bacon, which must be tied on ; lay it with the breast downwards in the pot, put in a little strong stock, cover it very closely, and set it to simmer. When it is done, which will be known by pinching its wing, take it up, and keep it warm; pick and rub in a clean napkin just as much rice as the gravy will swell, which is a third by measure of the liquid, and add some allspice, salt, a bit of glaze, and stock if necessary. It should be done in a heat that will not burn the rice, and it ought not to be stirred When dished pour over with a butter- ing-pan a little warm butter, as directed in PiiXATJ, Syrian ; take off the lard, and dish the capon in the middle. This is a most delicate dressing, and excellent for family dinners. PILLAU, INDIAN. Take 2 lbs. of the best end of a neck of mutton, S lbs. of nice young pork, a young fowl, six large onions, spices, and 1 oz. of whole cardamoms in a muslin bag; boil and simmer them all till half cooked, take out the mutton and fowl, brown them, and return them again into the stewpan ; put in, according to the quantity of liquid, rice well picked and ■washed; let all stew together till it is com- pletely swelled, and the whole nearly dry ; turn it into a cullender, take out the meat, and cover it with the rice. Garnish with hard eggs cut in quarters, fried onions, and pickles. PILLAU, SYRIAN. After having cleanea the rice properly, have three times the quantity of boiling water. Some rice takes more or less water, which must be attended to. Wash and strain it. After it has boiled a few minutes set it on one side of the grate, and let it remain until the water is absorbed, during which time the rice is upon no account to be disturbed by stirring or otherwise ; take off the cover, pour over it as much previously pure melted butter as will butter it throughout, and, giving it three stirs round with a spoon, replace the cover. Serve it a few minutes after taking jt out of the saucepan, and on no account stir it, as it is that which makes pillau in this country so like pudding, and so unlike the real Turkish dish. The water is sometimes coloured like saffron. Hard white or saffroned eggs may be stuck into it. PIMENTO, See Pepper, Jamaica. Pimples, worm Pimple with Black Points. This sort is very common, and very annoying to females from the age of fourteen and upwards, as they give the skin a dirty, greasy appearance, which no washing will re- move. They originate in the obstruction of the pores, the moisture in which, not getting a free passage, becomes thick, and closes altogether the mouth of the pore, where this greasy mois- ture catches and combines with the dust and other impurities floating in the air, and is soon rendered black. If, at this stage of the forma- tion of the pimple, you squeeze it on both sides between the nails, the thickened matter con- tained in the little tube will escape in the form of a small white lump, with a black head, which is nothing more than dust, &c., caught and re- tained by the part of the matter which had been exposed. The vulgar opinion, therefore, that such pimples are caused by worms or grubs, is -luite erroneous. Those who are subject to this Jorm or the disorder have, generally, from three or four to the number of some dozens of such Uule black points on the sides of their nose, on the upper lip, the chin, the forehead, and sometimes on the cheeks and temples. The skin between these is also, for the most part, though not always, greasy and foul. The best means of removing the worm pim- ples is by squeezing out all the thickened matter of each; for unless you do this it is impossible to get rid of them, as no wash nor other application will remove them, nor will they ever disappear of their own accord. But though no wash will remove them when once formed, several things of this kind may be useful in preventing their return. Of these the Roman balsam is a safe and excellent applica- tion, and daily rubbing the parts very gently with a soft glove or with the warm hand. If these are not effectual the means recommended for the next variety may be tried. The greasy disposition of the skin, and its tendency to form the black-headed worm pim- ples, for the most part depend on bilious disorders, or on indigestion, acidity, or some derangement of the stomach. Purgatives, sul- phur, and the whole tribe of worm drugs so often given to remove these pimples, in all cases increase them. Small Red Pimple. The cause is much the ' same with what we have just described in the case of the worm pimple, but operating a little more actively, or rather, proceeding a stage farther. The little tubes in the present case are not only obstructed, but become inflamed, swell, and form a small, hard, I'ed pimple, painful to the touch, and sometimes a little itchy, or giving a slight feeling as if an insect[ 332 ] PIN PIM were creeping over the skin. In this species the pimples appear singly, and are not very numerous, and the intermediate skin is un- affected. They are most liable to appear upon the cheeks, nose, and forehead, though they sometimes spread over the shoulders and upper part of the breast. The inflammation is not violent, and they suppurate slowly. Many of them do not suppurate nor form matter at all, but gradually swell, and again slowly subside in about eight or ten days, and leave a purplish- red mark on the skin, which gradually dis- appears. Others go on to a partial suppura- tion, which continues from ten days to three ■weeks. At the commencement, when the pore begins to be obstructed, there may be felt under the skin a little ball, like a small hard seed, about the size of a pin's head, which gradually en- larges for three or four days, when it begins to inflame, and about the sixth or seventh day comes to its greatest size, and is then swelled, prominent, red, smooth, shining, and hard and painful to the touch. After two or three days more a small speck of yellow matter appears on the summit, and when this breaks, and the matter escapes, a thin humour follows, which soon dries into a yellowish crust. The inflam- mation now gradually declines, the size and hardness of the pimples diminish, the crust becomes loosened at the edges, and at last falls off about the third week. The pimples which appear in succession pass through a similar course. When the disorder has once occurred it is apt to continue, or to go off and return at uncertain intervals. In some cases it never wholly disappears, but is at one time more troublesome than at another, though the person appears to enjoy good health. And it is re- markable that the health is generally best when the pimples are worst. This appearance of good health, however, we should be much dis- posed to look upon as a deception ; for, if pim- ples are numerous and obstinately continue, we may be almost certain there is some disease lurking en masque about the liver or stomach. We infer this from the immediate effects often produced on the face by such disorders. An eruption of pimples often follows a surfeit, or the drinking of cold water or milk, or eating cold vegetables, such as salad; and, when pimples have been so produced, they sometimes continue to old age.- The case of a lady has been mentioned who had pimples produced on her face by taking vinegar. One of the safest applications, perhaps, is Dr. Bateman's sulphur wash:—Bi-eak 1 oz. of sulphur, and pour over it one quart of boiling water; allow it to infuse for twelve or fourteen hours, and apply it to the face twice or thrice a day for a few weeks. It is excellent for re- moving the roughness of the skin which usually succeeds pimples. A stronger application, when sucli is found necessary, may be prepared from vinegar and the acetated liquor of ammonia, or the spirit of Mindererus; or you may try Sir William Knighton's lotion. Take ^ drachm of liquor, of potass, and 3 ozs. of spirit of wine: apply to the pimples with a camels-hair pencil. If this be too strong add one-half pure water to it. PINE-APPLE CHIPS. Pare and trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick ; take half the weight of the fruit in powder sugar, lay the slices in a basin, with sugar strewed between, and let it stand till the sugar is dissolved, after which set it on a moderate fire to simmer till the chips be quite clear, and then sot it by. The next day remove all the syrup from the slices,-place them on glasses, and dry them in a gentle oven. PINE-APPLE ICE. Put into a pan 1 lb. ol clarified sugar boiled to petite lisse, in which Iny a fine fresh pine-apple nicely trimmed, and let it remain three hours; then add the juice of two lemons, strain the preparation througli a bolting-cloth, pressing it with a wooden spoon, that as much of the pulp may be rubbed Uu-ough with it as possible; add a glass of water, and freeze as usual. PINE-APPLE JELLY. Pare and cut a fine ripe pine into quarters, and trim each quarter of a round or long form; take 1 lb. of clarified sugar, boil it to lisse, and add a pint of cold water; let it boil, skim, and then put in the pine. When it has boiled twenty minutes take out the round pieces, and put them aside, leaving the rest twenty minutes longer; then strain the liquor through a tammy, with the juice of three lemons (also strained) and 2 ozs. of clarified isinglass; pour some of this jelly in a mould, cut the pine into small pieces, arrange them on it, and when set pour on more jelly, then more pieces, more jelly, and so on till the mould is full. PINE-APPLE PRESERVED GREEN. Choose a good-shaped pine, and having let it soak five or six days in salt and water, let it stand on a slow fire till the fruit becomes green ; then put it into a jar, and cover it with a thin cool syrup. The next day drain off the syrup, give it a boil, and pour it over the pine- apple again with great care ; leave it thus for two months, after which make a rich syrup with 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of sugar; add a little ginger, boil and skim it well, and when nearly cold pour it over the pine previously drained. Tie the jar over tightly to exclude the air.[ 333 ] PIS PIN PINK DYE. Tie safflower in a bag, and wash it in water till it no longer colours the waters ; then dry it; of this dried matter take 2 drachms; salt of tartar, 18 grains; spirit of wine, 7 drachms. Digest for two hours more, and add distilled vinegar or lemon juice, enough to reduce it to a fine rose colour. Used as a cosmetic, to make French rouge, and to dye silk stockings. PINK RATAFIA. Take a gallon and a ' half of brandy, a quart of clear river water, 3 lbs. of sugar, 2 lbs. of I'ed pink flowers, and 1 drachm of cloves; remove all the inferior parts of the flowers, and infuse the rest with the cloves in the brandy for two months, when strain it through a linen cloth; dissolve the sugar in the water, and then mix it with the brandy; filter and bottle it. PINS are made of brass wire. When the wire is received at the manufactory it is wound ofl" from one wheel to another, and passed through a circle of a smaller diameter in a piece of iron. When reduced to its proper size it is straightened by drawing it between iron pins, fixed in a board in a zigzag manner. It is afterwards cut into lengths of about four yards, and then into smaller pieces, every length being sufficient for six pins. Each end of these is ground to a point. This operation is performed by boys, each of whom sits with two small grindstones before him turned by a wheel. Taking up a handful, he applies the wires to the coarsest of the two stones, moving them round that the points may not become flat: he then gives them a smoother and sharper point on the other stone. A lad of twelve years of age can point 16,000 in an hour. When the wire is pointed a pin is taken off from each end till it is cut into six ■ pieces. The next operation is to form the heads, or head-spinning as it is termed. This is done by a spinning-wheel: one piece of wire is with rapidity wound round another, and the in- terior one being drawn out, leaves a hollow tube between the circumvolutions. It is then cut, every two turns of the wire forming one head. These are softened by throwing them into iron pans, and placing them in a furnace till they are red-hot. As soon as they are cold they are distributed to children, who sit with anvils and hammers before them. These they work with their feet by means of a lathe. They take up one of the lengths, and thrust the blunt end into a quantity of the heads which lie before them. Catching one at the extremity, they apply it immediately to the anvil and hammer, and, by a motion or two of the foot, the point and, the head are fixed to- gether in much less time than can be described, and with a dexterity that can only be acquired by practice. The pins are thrown into a copper, containing a solution of tin and wine lees. Here they remain for some time, and when taken out assume a dull white appeai'ance. In order to give them a polish they are put into a tub con- taining a quantity of bran, which is set in motion by turning a shaft that runs through its centre, and thus, by means of friction, the pins become entirely bright. They are now sepa- rated from the bran, which is performed by a mode exactly similar to the winnowing of corn, the bran flying off, and leaving the pin behind fit for sale. All the processes employed in the art of pin- making, if added together for one pin, would occupy rather more than seven hours and a half of time; yet by the division of labour, and by making so many at the same time, it is possible to manufacture them with profit for the small price at which they are sold. The most ingenious machinery for the manu- facture of pins is that patented by Mr. Wright, of Wellclose Square, London: by this the whole of the above processes are performed without the assistance of any manual labour; and it has been stated that if all the establish- ment was at full work, it could supply the con- sumption of the whole kingdom, estimated at 16,000,000 per day. Tlie various sizes of common pins as they are found at the haberdashers', are—Lillskins, short whites, gilt short whites, gilt middlings, gilt corkings. These are made up in papers. Pound pins are sold by weight in sorted sizes or not. Lace pins are very long and slender, for fixing anything on to lace. Black pins, and white pins with black heads, are of various sizes. A new pin has lately been patented by Taylor and Co., which has the head made out of the same wire as the body of the pin, nor put on, as is the case with common pins. The patent pins made by Durnford and Co. are much superior to the common pins, being of stiffer wire, and having the heads flat and better fixed on : their stiffness makes them much more agreeable to use. They are not retailed in less than sixpenny papers. PIPE. This is a cask for wine and other things measured by wine measure. It is usually reckoned two hogsheads, or 126 gallons ; but in commerce the pipe measures differently as follows :—The pipe of port wine is 138 gallons, Madeira is 110, Vidonia is 120, Sherry is 130, Lisbon and Bucellas is 140. The pipe of port is seldom accurately 138 gallons, and it is customary in trade to charge what the cask actually contains, be it more or less than the estimated quantity. PISTACHIO BISCUITS. Take lib. ofPIS PIS f 834 ] -pistaclilo niitSi 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, the whites of sixteen and the yolks of eight eggs, 2 ozs. of flour, and 1 lb. of powder sugar; blanch and pound the pistachios and almonds, moistening occasionally with white of egg; beat the whites and yolks separately—with the latter, half the sugar and some grated lemon- peel. When both are thoroughly beaten join them together, beating constantly, and as you do so sift over them the i-emainder of the flour and sugar, and then the almonds and pistachios. Have some paper cases ready, into which pour your preparation ; glaze, and bake your biscuits in a moderately heated oven. PISTACHIO BISCUIT SOUFFLES. Blanch J lb. of pistachios, half of which cut in slices, and the other half mince small; whip the whites of three eggs very firmly, then mix with them the sliced pistachios and ^Ib. of sifted sugar. Have ready a number of paper cases about an inch square ; put your preparation into them, taking care they are not more than half full; sprinkle powder sugar over, and as soon as that is dissolved strew the minced pistachios, put them in a gentle oven, and colour them of a reddish yellow. PISTACHIO BLANC-MANGER. Blanch 4 ozs. of pistachio, pound them with ^ oz. of preserved cedrat, dilute the paste with half a glass of water, and then extract the milk by squeezing it tightly in a napkin ; mix with the milk 6 ozs. of powder sugar and I oz. of isin- glass ; take 1 lb. of sweet almonds, and pound them to a fine paste, which dilute with three glasses of water; extract the milk as usual, divide this into two parts, putting to one part the pistachio milk and a small quantity of spinach essence, and to the other 6 ozs. of dis- solved sugar in a glass of warm water, and ^ oz. of isinglass. PISTACHIO CREAM. Peel Jib. of pis- tachios, and pound them with 1 oz. of preserved cedrat and eight bitter almonds. When reduced to a fine paste put it into six glasses of boiling milk, and cover the infusion ; but before it is quite cold squeeze the milk through a cloth. Mix in a fan 10 ozs. of powder sugar, and a spoonful of spinach essence strained; then add a whole egg, ten yolks,, and a grain of salt; pour the infusion to this a little at a time, stir it well, run it through a sieve, and finish according to rule. See Cream au Bain-marie. PISTACHIO CREAM ICE. Blanch and wash \ lb of pistachios, and when perfectly dry pound them to a fine-paste with a little cream and lemon-peel; put this paste into a skillet, with the yolks of nine eggs and f lb. of powder sugar ; stir it well, and add by degrees a quart of cream; set it on a slow fire to simmer gently, and when sufficiently done cover it with a little spinach green ; then strain it, and frhen cold ice it in the usual way. PISTACHIO CREAM, WHIPPED. Your cream having been whipped as usual [see Cream, Whipped), mix with it 6 ozs. of powder sugar, and two spoonsful of double rose or orange-flower water; dress your cream in a pyramidal form, and having peeled J lb. of pistachios, cut them in pieces lengthwise, and stick them lightly on the sui'face of your pyramid. PISTACHIO ICE. Take three pints of milk, add one pint of cream and ^ lb. of pistachios, which blanch and pound to a fine paste, adding milk to them occasionally to prevent their oil- ing. When well pounded dilute the paste with half the remaining portion of the milk, and squeeze it through a cloth, wringing it as tightly as possible. Set a saucepan on the fire, in which put the cream and the rest of the milk, 1 lb. of sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated; stir these ingredients over the fire till tolerably thick, then add the pistachio milk, give the whole one boil, and strain it. When quite cold cover it with spinach essence, and freeze it as directed. See Ice : To Prepare. PISTACHIO MARCHPANE. Put H lb. of pistachios into a mortar, and pound them, moistened with white of egg, to a very fine paste. In the meantime clarify the same quan- tity of sugar, and boil it to petit houlet; then take the pan from the fire, put in the pistachios, stir them together well, and replace the pan on the hot ashes, continually stirring till the paste is of a proper consistence ; then pour it on a slab well sprinkled with sugar. As soon as it is cold cut it into any forms your fancy may dictate. PISTACHIO PETITS POTS. Have ready ten small moulds ; take a sufiicient quantity of cream to fill them, and put it into a saucepan, with J lb. of powder sugar; give it a boil, and then, having blanched and pounded J lb. of pistachios to a fine paste, pour the cream on it, boil them together once, and let them get cold. Put four yolks and one whole egg into a saucepan, put the cold cream to it, mix them together, and when it has boiled once pour it into the moulds, which place in the bain-marie to set. PISTACHIO TART. Blanch and beat ^Ib. of those nuts, with orange-flower water, a plum or two, cinnamon, ginger, and sugar; beat ten yolks, and thicken them over the fire with a pint of cream or milk; mix the whole together with some grated Naples biscuits ; put it into a sheeted dish, and when baked stick it over with whatever nuts it is made of, cut into fillets. PISTACHIO WAFER. Dilute k lb. of briophe paste with half a glass of Madeira[ 335 ]1 PL A PIS and then stir into it 3 ozs. of powder sugar and '-i ozs. of dry currants; spread this prepa- ration over a well-buttered tin to the thickness of half an inch, and put it in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour. When done cut it in pieces two inches square; glaze, and cover them lightly with minced pistachios. PISTACHIOS, GATEAU OF. Set half a pint of milk on the fire, and mix with it a sufficient quantity of flour to make it of the con- sistence of thick cream. When done add to it ^ lb. of pistachios, the same of sweet almonds, (both blanched and pounded to a fine paste), a pinch of fine orange flower, sugar, four whole eggs, put in one at a time, the yolks of six. and J lb. of melted butter. Stir all these ingredients well, and having whipped the six whites, add them lightly, colour it with a little spinach green, and pour the whole preparation into a well-buttered mould; put it into a hot oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour; then draw it out, turn it on a dish, and serve. PITCH. See Tar. PITCH.BURGUNDY. 5ee Burgundy Pitch. PLA.GUE. Symptoms resembling those of putrid fever are increased and rapid in their progress. It may be known from putrid fever by the aggravation and urgency of its symptoms, and by the greater tendency to carbuncles and glandular tumours. The danger, which is always extreme, will be proportioned to delirium and prostration of strength. Profuse intestinal evacuation, discharges of blood, disposition of the carbuncles to a mortified state, and sudden starting of the tendons, are pi'eludes of approaching dissolution. An early formation of glandular tumours, whose suppuration it will be proper to promote, is to he considered as salutary. Appearances, on dissection, are similar to those o'' putrid fever, with this difference—that the gall bladder is generally found full of black bile ; that the liver is considerably enlarged ; and that the lungs, kidneys, and intestines are beset with carbuncles. The food should consist of such articles as tea with cream and sugar, coffee, jellies, sago with wine, ripe fruit (such as currants, straw- berries, grapes, and roasted apples), together with puddings, fruit pies, and tarts. Beef tea, chicken or fish, in small quantity, and by de- grees still stronger articles of nutritious diet, may, when the stomach will bear them, be also had recourse to. Tlie drink should be negus, or water sharpened with the juice of orange or lemon. Apple tea, or cold water with toasted bread, also cyder, perry, and bottled ale or porter, are proper. A glass of wine, such as. port, claret, sherrv, or Madeira, may be occasionally taken. Mild temperature is necessary. With this view heat should be so modified as to produce it. The air in the apartment should not be suffered so to stagnate as to abound with that which is lethal. On the contrary, such as is suitably impregnated with vital air should be admitted. This may be done by opening the doors and windows of some adjoining apartment. A horizontal position may be preserved. Unnecessary motion ought to be avoided. The slightest tendency to sleep must be encouraged. The hands and face are occasionally to be washed with cold water. Such parts of the skia as feel hot without perspiration may be ex- posed to a current of cool air. The cold parts, on the contrary, should be covered with flannel. Even the body itsel.', under strong operation of heat, unattended with perspiration, may occasionally, with advantage, be generally wiped Avith a sponge dipped either in cold vinegar and water, or water in its pure state. It should be afterwards rubbed dry. This may be re- garded as a more convenient process than a sudden effusion of cold water, which has been recommended. The influence ol objects on the organs of sense, such as light and sound, should, during the urgency of the symptoms, be partially withheld. Hence the room should be somewhat darkeued, and noise ought to be avoided. Hope, fortitude, and mild mental exertion should be supported. Such things as seem capable of being im- pregnated with infection ought to be removed to situations whence the healthy may not suffer from them. The air should be freely admitted into the apartment in which the sick person is placed, and it should be frequently sprinkled with vinegar. The fumes of minera lacids may be also diffused in it. To obtain these, the doors and windows being previously shut, ^oz. of sulphuric acid may be put into a china cup or deep saucer. This should be warmed by placing it over a lamp, or on heated sand, adding at intervals chloride of sodium (common salt) or nitrate of potash (nitre). The apartment should be subsequently ventilated. The linen should be often changed. The excrementitious matter ought instantly to bo removed. None should approach but such as are wanted. Infection must be guarded against by banishing the apprehension of danger, by frequent wash- ing of the hands and face, and by the temperate use of wine and generous diet. A vomit ought to be taken on the commence- ment of these diseases. Febrifuge cordials, volatiles, and corroborants, such as Peruvian bark, become occasionally useful. Nitric aeid»PLA PLA [ 330 ] 60 diluted as to be of mild acidity, is also proper. Profuse looseness should be checked by opiates judiciously administered. Blisters may be ap- plied in urgent cases. Emollient clysteis should be frequently injected. PLAICE WITH DUTCH SAUCE. Pre- pai'e the plaice in exactly the same manner as soles with mushrooms. When well drained from the liquor lay them on a dish, and pour over them a Dutch sauce. PLAICE A L'ESPAGNOLE. Prepare it the same as for Dutch sauce, only, instead of pouring over it a Dutch sauce, it must bea good strong sauce a VEspagnole, with more lemon- juice than usual. A few mushrooms added would be a great improvement. PLAICE (an Excellent Wat of Cooking A Large One). Sprinkle it well with salt, and keep it twenty-four hours; then wash it and wipe it dry; do it over with egg, and then with bread crumbs; then make boiling hot some lard, with two large spoonsful of vinegar ; lay in the fish, and fry it a fine colour; drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley and anchovy sauce. You may, if you choose, instead of putting vinegar into the pan, previously dip the fish in vinegar. PLASTER OF PARIS. {See Alabaster.') This, known also as gypsum, is a compound of sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) and lime. It is called by chemists sulphate of lime. After being heated red-hot it has the property of hardening very rapidly when mixed with water into a paste. In this manner it is cast into statues and ornaments for ceilings, and is equally serviceable for forming moulds, whether of a living face or other form. When a mould is thus formed with it, and the inside of the mould oiled, a cast may be easily made in it with another plaster of Paris paste. PLASTERS ought to be of a different con- sistence, according to the purposes for which they are intended. Such as are to be applied to the bi'easts or stomach ought to be soft and yielding, while those designed for the limbs should be firm and adhesive. It has been supposed that plasters might be impregnated with the virtues of different vegetables by boil- ing the recent vegetable with the oil employed for the composition of the plaster; but this treatment does not communicate to the oils any valuable qualities. The calces of lead boiled with oils unite with them into a plaster of a proper consistence, which makes the basis of several other plasters. In boiling these com- positions a quantity of hot water must be added from time to time, to prevent the plaster from burning or growing black. This, however, should be done with care, lest it cause the matter to explode. Adhesive Plaster. Take of common plaster lib.; Burgundy pitch, lb. Melt them to- gether. This plaster is principally used for keeping on other dressings. Anodyne Plaster. Melt 1 oz. of adhesive plaster, and when it is cooling mix with it 1 drachm of powdered opium, and the same quantity of camphor, previously rubbed up with a little oil. This plaster generally gives ease in acute pains, especially of the nervous kind. Blistering Plaster. Take of Venice turpen- tine 6 ozs.; yellow wax, 2 ozs.; Spanish flies in fine powder, 3 ozs.; powdered mustard, 1 oz. Melt the wax, and while it is warm add to it the turpentine, taking care not to evaporate it by too much heat. After the turpentine and wax are sufficiently incorporated sprinkle in the powders, continually stining the mass till it be cold. Though this plaster is made in a variety of ways, one seldom meets with it of a proper consistence. When compoiinded with oils and other greasy substances its effects are blunted, and it is apt to run; while pitch and resin render it too hard, and very inconvenient. When the blistering plaster is not at hand, its place may be supplied by mixing with any soft ointment a sufficient quantity of powdered flies, or by forming thera into a paste with flour and vinegar. Blistering plasters prove highly disagreeable to many people by occasioning strangury. It is well, therefore, to use a plaster in which a small quantity of blistering salve has been mixed with the Burgundy pitch plaster. Lay it over the part affected, aud suffer it to remain as long as it will stick. The blistering plaster loses its effect in a few hours, whereas this will act for many days, or even weeks, aud seldom fails to remove pain or slight obstructions. Common Plaster. Take of common olive oil 6 pints ; litharge reduced to a fine powder, 2^ lbs. Boil the litharge and oil together over a gentle fire, continually stirring them, and keeping always about half a gallon of water in the vessel. After they have boiled about three hours a little of the plaster may be taken out and put into cold water, to try if it be of a proper consist- ence. When that is the case the whole may be suffered to cool, and the water well pressed out of it with the hands. This plaster is generally applied in slight wounds and excoriations of the skin. It keeps the part soft and warm, and defends it from the air, which is all that is necessary in such cases. Its principal use, however, is to serve as a basis for other plasters. Gum Plaster. Take of the common plaster 4 lbs.; gum ammoniac and galbanum strahied, of each ^ lb. Melt them together, and add of Venice tui-pentine 6 ozs. Tliis plaster is used-t 337 ] PLA PLA as a digestive, and likewise for discussing in- dolent tumours. Mercurial Plaster. Take of common plaster 1 lb.; gum ammoniac strained, i lb. Melt them together, and when cooling add 8 ozs. of quicksilver, previously extinguished by triture, with 3 ozs. cf hog's lard. This plaster is recommended in pains of the limbs arising from a venereal cause. Indurations of the glands and other indolent tumours are likewise found sometimes to yield to it. Stomach Plaster. Take of gum plaster ^ lb.; camphorated oil, l|oz.; black pepper, or capsiciica where it can be had, 1 oz. Melt the plaster, and mix with it the oil; then sprinkle in the pepper, previously reduced to a fine powder. An ounce or two of this plaster spread upon soft leather, and applied to the region of the stomach, will be of service in flatulencies arising from hysteric and hypo- chondriac affecticns. A little of the expressed oil of mace, or a few drops of the essential oil of mint, may be rubbed upon it before it is applied. This may supply the place of the anti-hysteric plaster. Warm Plaster. Take of gum plaster 1 oz.; blistering plaster, 2 drachms. Melt them to- gether over a gentle fire. This plaster is useful in the sciatica and other fixed pains of the rheumatic kind. It ought, however, to be worn for some time, and to be renewed at least once a week. If this is found to blister the part, which is sometimes the case, it must be made with a smaller proportion of the blistering plaster. Wax Plaster. Take of yellow wax 1 lb.; white resin, ^ lb.; mutton suet, f lb. Melt them together. This is generally used instead of the inelilot plaster. It is a proper application after blisters, and in other cases where a gentle digestive is necessary. PLATE. Mrs. Parkes, in her " Household Duties," has these excellent remarks upon plate:— The imperishable nature of plate, and the little intrinsic value which it loses by time, render its purchase less imprudent than if an equal sum were expended either in orna- mental glass or china. Yet attention should be paid to consistency in the purchase of plate. Some portion of plate is essential, and even economical, in every family; but whole services are exclusively the appendages of rank and affluence, and appear absolutely to require a correspondence in every particular throughout the establishment. That which is only con- sistently superb in the house and on the table of the nobleman would be absurd in the cottage or at the board of the tradesman. After the plate has been washed with hot water VOL. II. rub it over with a mixture of levigated harts- horn and spii'its of tuq)entlne, which should be permitted to d-y on the plate, which it will do in the course of a few minutes. Remember that two good-sized leathers are required for cleaning plate, one of which should be kept for rubbing off the hartshorn powder, and the other for polishing up the silver afterwards. This process should be performed twice a week ; but on other days merely rubbing with the leathers after washing will be sufficient. We have never seen any plate look better than that which was cleaned according to this direction, and there is nothing in the ingredients mentioned that can in the least injure the silver, which is sometimes the case with the nostrums that servants employ. The only thing to be strictly regarded by the servant who uses it is to rub it off so well that the plate shall not retain the slightest smell of the turpentine. The turpentine is useful in removing every particle of greasiness from the plate, which mere washing will not do. We have seen some plate cleaned with muriatic acid, which gives a very high polish, but also a deep colour to the plate, almost resembling steel. The hartshorli and turpentine give as good a polish as the acid, without injuring or changing the colour of the silver. Many people still prefer a mixture whiting and water, which cleans tolerably well, but does not renew the polish. When silver has, through neglect, become very dim and dirty-looking, it is necessary to boil it in soap and water for some little time, and afterwards the turpentine and hartshorn powder can be used to great advantage. And now let us give a caution against intrust- ing too much of it into the hands of servants. It is leading them into daily temptation, which at some unhappy moment they may not have resolution to resist. In the first place we suppose you to be provided with a proper plate chest, or to have appropriated a strong closet in which to keep the plate you do not require for daily use. In this closet there should be, besides the list of the whole stock, one which marks the quantity given out, so that after any occasional use of the whole you will have these ready to refer to while you are superintending the replacing of it in the strong chest. The plate which is in daily use should be intrusted to the care of the servant who has tho charge of cleaning it. This in some families devolves on the butler, in others on the foot- man, and on the housemaid where there are no men-servants. It should be counted over to them when it is first placed in their hands, and they should be made to feel responsible for its re-appearance when it is required. They should be instructed to count it over every night before z[ 338 ] PLA PLA they lock it up in the chest or the drawer in which it is kept; nor should they have permission to give the key of this drawer to any one of the servants unless upon some emergency. This frequent and regular investigation is the surest method of keeping together all the smaller articles of plate. It leads to an immediate inquiry when any part of it is missing, and it may also enable the responsible servant to ascertain which individual of the family had it last in use. It makes the housemaid attentive in bringing down the spoons, which are now and then required in bedrooms ; and, indeed, it checks the care- lessness of all the servants, by which the plate is often mislaid. When any article of plate is missing, and the strictest search for it has been unsuccessful, it becomes the duty of the servant who has it in charge to inform his employers of the loss, that they may examine into the circumstances, and endeavour to discover how it has happened. If this examination satisfy them that the loss is to be attributed to accident alone, it is not likely that they will be very severe, or demand remuneration from their servant. They will rather endeavour to explain to him that they do not desire to punish him for a misfortune, but only by proper restraints, and by the apprehension of disgrace, to keep him from error. Another good authority, in giving directions for the management of plate, says the best plan is to provide a wicker basket with three compartments in it, and the handle in the middle. One will contain the smaller spoons and forks ; the other will hold the salt cellars, mustard pot, &c.; and the third will receive the soup ladle, fish slice, gravy spoons, &c. With even one servant this plate may be kept in ex- cellent condition by a little care. It should never be left in the kitchen, or any other part accessible to strangers: a sideboard drawer or inner closet in a store-room would be desirable. A japanned tray also should be provided, with a clean knife-cloth at the bottom; and, before the dishes are removed at dinner time, every spoon that has been used should be laid upon the cloth in the tray, and be set away in a kitchen drawer until the tea things are washed in the evening. This regulation will insure their not being tossed into the dish-tub, to be scratched and shuffled about among the plates and dishes, and most probably from being emptied away into any receptacle for hog-wash, or down a drain, &c. A servant should also be instructed to wash spoons one at a time, and not to take them up several together in the hand like a bundle of quills. The best material for cleaning plate that is in constant use is soap and water, with a soft cloth. If a dark tarnished spot should appear, a little damp whiting on a small brush will soon remove it. For plate that has long lain by, liqueur castors, cruet stands, &c., first wash it with the incomparable soap and water, and if needful (in consequence of tamish) smear it all over with whiting and spirits of-wine, or common gin, set it to dry, and then brush it off. De- canter stands, and other articles which must not be washed, on account of the varnished satin wood and green baize, should be subjected to the latter treatment only. The best plate powder is the purest whiting, because it is soft, and is not a metallic prepara- tion, as are rouge and other advertised plate powders. These act upon the silver, and wear it rapidly away. The only objection to whiting is that it gives the plate a poor and white appearance, whereas the hue that is imparted to it by rouge is that dai'k and steel-like surface at once so beautiful and rich. The plate ought to be free from grease; therefore wash it in boiling water, and if it have rough edges brush them well before beginning to clean it. You should be provided with a sponge and leathers. The first should be well soaked in water before using it, and the last soft and thick. Plate powder or whiting may be used either wet or dry. If wet do not put too much on the plate at once. Rub the article, if plain, with the bare hand. Small articles, such as spoons and forks, can be done between the finger and thumb. The longer plate is rubbed the better it will look. When done enough brush the powder or whiting from out of the crevices and the crest, and from between the prongs of the forks. Be careful in handling such small articles as salt and tea-spoons, lest they should break or bend. Keep a clean leather to finish rubbing the plate with after it is brushed, and always dust the articles with a fine linen cloth before they are laid out on the dinner-table. Plated articles require more care than silver in cleaning. Soft brushes should be used, but not too often, and plate powder in preference to whiting by itself. Do not rub them more than you can help, or they will tarnish; neither brush them more than is necessary, or the silver will wear off, and of course no cleaning can make them look well when this is the case. The best thing for plated articles is spirit of wine or oil; and take care to keep them dry, and never let them remain dirty, for they will rust if plated on steel, and canker if plated on. copper. All articles not in constant use should be covered over with two or three folds of silver paper, and they will keep untarnished. After cleaning plate wash your brushes with warm water and soap, and then set them to dry with the wooden side uppermost, as thatI 339 ] PLE takes tlie longest.time to dry, and the bristles are apt to come out if the brush remains long wet. We annex some recipes for -washes, which are useful when the articles become much soiled:—Alum, cream of tartar, and common salt, of each J oz., dissolved in two quarts of water. Wash the articles in this, then rub them dry, and they will look like new. Or, alum, cream of tartar, and vinegar, equal parts ; water, twice as much. Mix, and add a little of this to the boiling water in which you dip the plate, or you may apply it with a cloth dipped in hot water, and then rub dry as before. Or, unslaked lime and alum, of each 1 part; vinegar, 11 parts; water, 12 parts. Mix and apply hot. PLATE BOILING POWDER. Equal parts of cream of tartar, alum, and common salt. A small quantity added to the. water in which plate is boiled gives it a silvery whiteness. PLATE POWDERS. Finely prepared chalk or burnt hartshorn. One way in which these are used is to boil them in water with pieces of rag. The finer particles are entangled in the fibres of the rags, which are dried and kept for use. Or, quicksilver with chalk, 1 oz. ; pre- pared hartshorn, 8 ozs.; prepared chalk, 4 ozs. Powders containing quicksilver, besides the necessary wearing of the surface, are supposed to render the plate more brittle. If used it should not be in larger proportion than the above. Or, finest putty powder, 1 oz.; levigated chalk, 5 ozs. A little rouge may be added to colour it. French Plate Powder. Mix one part of jewellers' rouge with twelve of carbonate of magnesia. Jeweller's Rouge. Dissolve green vitriol in hot water, and add a solution of pearlash as long as it throws down a precipitate. Wash the precipitate repeatedly with warm water, drain it on calico, and finally calcine it till it assumes a bright colour. It is sometimes made by calcining the sulphate of iron with a strong heat till oxide of iron only remains. Let it be triturated with water, and prepared in the same way as prepared chalk. PLATED ARTICLES. Under the head Plate we have given directions for clean- ing these. They should be rubbed even more gently than articles of solid silver; yet with every care the silver will wear oS from them, and in that case they may be renovated by one of the following prepara- tions :—Nitrate of silver, 30 grains; common salt, 30 grains; cream of tartar, 3J drachms. Mix. Moistened with water, and rubbed on dial plates or other copper articles, it coats them with silver. Or, silver precipitated from its nitric solution by copper, 20 grains; alum, 30 grains; cream of tartar, 2 drachms; salt, 3 drachms, Or, precipitated silver, ^ oz.; common salt, 2 ozs.; muriate of ammonia, 2 ozs.; corrosive sublimate, 1 drachm. Make it into a paste with water. Copper utensils are previously boiled with tartar and alum, and rubbed with this, paste, then made red-hot, and afterwards polished Or, dissolve muriate of silver in a solution of hyposulphite of soda, and mix this with prepared hartshorn or other suitable powder. PLATINUM is the heaviest and most in- corrodible of all the metals. It is, therefore, much preferable to tin for lining copper vessels. They may be easily platinised in the following way:—Solid chloride of platinum, 1 part, is dis- solved in water, 100 parts, and to this solution is added common salt, 8 parts ; or still better, 1 part of platino-chloride of ammonia and 8 parts of hydi'ochlorate of ammonia are placed in a flat porcelain vessel, 32 to 40 parts of water poured over them, the whole heated to boiling, and the vessels of copper or brass, perfectly bright, are placed therein. They will be covered in a few seconds with a brilliant and firmly adhering layer of platinum.—[Cooley.) "PLETHORA. (See Corpulency and Gid- diness.) To a person of a plethoric habit, with a short neck, costiveness is particularly injurious. It not only favours an increase of blood in the venous system, by the distended bowels com- pressing the descending aorta, but occasions an increased afflux of blood to the head, and at the same time, by compressing the veins, retards its return from the head ; and hence the great relief some plethoric subjects receive, in cases of stupor, oppression of the chest, and indigestion, from the operation of a brisk purgative. Costive- ness is, therefore, a very common precursor of apoplexy, and of inflammatory affections of the head. When the blood-vessels of the brain are evidently overloaded a full dose of a brisk cathartic is necessary; and here an aloetic purge, as the cathartic extract or the compound colo- cynth pill, by its stimulating effects on the rectum (occasioning a determination of blood to the bowels, and even the lower extremities), is most beneficial. To obviate costiveness and accelerate the circulation of the blood through the bowels, 10 grains of the aromatic pill (in two pills) may be taken once or twice a day ; but, as the system of blood-vessels is frequently overloaded, in consequence of the kidneys not performing their office, and as the secretion of urine is immedi- ately from the mass of blood, it is a good practice to employ a diuretic medicine with an aperient, as the oil of juniper in the mass of the pills, or an infusion of the buchu leaves or juniper berries, two or three times a day. The aperient neutral salts—as Glauber's, thePLE PLE [ 340 J Epsom, Rochelle, and tlie saline aperient waters— so frequeriily prescribed to obviate costiveness in a plethoric habit predisposed to apoplexy, by reducing the temperature of the abdomen, have often a very pernicious effect. The ob- jections to this class of aperient medicines apply with greater force to cases of costiveness in plethoric habits predisposed to apoplexy than any other species of costiveness. The shower-bath, or the application of cold water to the head every morning by means of a napkin, the asarabacca snuff (a pinch once a day), to increase the secretion from the nostrils, flannel socks to the feet, exercise (walking), and abstemious diet are necessary auxiliaries ; and if attended with symptoms of an impending fit, copious abstraction of blood from a vein. PLEURISY. Sijmptoms. This, like most other fevers, generally begins with chilliness and shivering, which are followed by heat, thirst, and restlessness. To these succeeds a violent pricking pain in one of the sides among the I'ibs. Sometimes the pain extends towards the back- bone, sometimes towards the fore part of the breast, and at other times towards the shoulder- blades. The pain is generally most violent when the patient draws his breath. The pulse in this disease is commonly quick and hard ; the urine high-coloured ; and, if blood be let, it is covered with a tough crust or buffy coat. The patient's spittle is at first thin, but afterwards it becomes grosser, and is often streaked with blood. Diet. Nature generally endeavours to carry off this disease by a critical discharge of blood from some part of the body, by expectoration, sweat, loose stools, thick urine, or the like. We ought, therefore, to second her intentions by lessening the force of the circulation, relaxing the vessels, diluting the humours, and promoting expectoration. For these purposes the diet ought to be cool, slender, and diluting. The patient must avoid all food that is viscid, hard of digestion, or that affords much nourishment, as flesh, butter, cheese, eggs, milk, and also everything that is of a heating nature. His drink may be whey, or an infusion of pectoral and balsamic vegetables. Barley water, with a little honey or jelly of currants mixed with it, is likewise a very proper drink in this disease. It is made by boiling 1 oz. of pearl barley in three English pints of water to two, which- must afterwards be strained. This and other diluting liquors are not to be di unk in large quantities at a time ; but the liatient ought to keep continually sipping them, so as to render his mouth and throat always moist. All his food and drink should be taken a little warm. The patient should be kept quiet, cool, and every way easy. His feet and hands ought daily to be bathed in luliewarm water, and he may sometimes sit up in bed for a short space, in order to relieve his head. Treatment. Almost every person knows, when a fever is attended with a violent pain of the side and a quick hard pulse, that bleeding is necessaiy. When these symptoms come on, the sooner this operation is performed the better; and the quantity at first must be pretty large, provided the patient be able to bear it. A large quantity of blood let at once in the beginning of a pleurisy has a much better effect than repeated small bleedings. A man may lose 12ozs. or 14ozs. of blood as soon as it is certainly known that he is seized with a pleurisy. For a younger person, or one of a delicate constitution, the quantity must be less. If, after the first bleeding, the pain with the other violent symptoms should still continue, it will be necessary, at the distance of twelve or eighteen hours, to take 8 ozs or 9 ozs. more. If the symptoms do not then abate, and the blood shows a strong buffy coat, a third or even a fourth bleeding may be requisite. If the pain of the side abate, the pulse become softer, or the patient begin to spit freely, bleeding ought not to be repeated. This operation is seldom necessary after the third or fourth day of the fever, and ought not then to be perfoi'med unless in the most urgent circumstances. The blood may be many ways attenuated without bleeding. There are likewise many things that may be done to ease the pain of the side without this operation, as fomenting, blistering, &c. Fomentations may be made by boiling a handful of flowers of elder, camomile, and common mallows, or any other soft vege- tables, in a proper quantity of water. The herbs may be either put into a flannel bag, and applied warm to the side, or flannels may be dipped in the decoction, afterwards wrung out, and applied to the part affected with as much warmth as the patient can easily bear. As the clothes grow cool they must be changed, and great care taken that the patient do not catch cold. A bladder may be filled with warm milk and water, and applied to the side, if the above method of fomenting be found inconvenient. Fomentations not only ease the pain, but relax the vessels, and prevent the stagnation of the blood and other humours. The side may like- wise be frequently rubbed with a little of the volatile liniment. Topical bleeding has often a very good effect in this disease. It may either be performed by applying a number of leeches to the part affected, or by cupping, which is both a more certain and expeditious method than the other.PLE PLE r 341 ] Leaves of various plants might likewise be applied to the patient's side with advantage. We have often seen great benefit from young cabbage leaves applied warm to the side in a pleurisy. These not only relax the parts, but likewise draw off a little moisture, and may prevent the necessity of blistering plasters, which, however, when other things fail, must be applied. If the pain continue after repeated bleedings, fomentations, &c., a blistering plaster must be applied over the part affected, and suffered to remain for two days. This not only procures a discharge from the side, but takes off the spasm, and by that means assists in removing the cause of the disease. To prevent a stran- gury when the blistering plaster is on, the patient may drink freely of the Arabic emul- sion ;—Take oil of sweet almonds, 1 oz. ; syrup of marsh-mallows, ^ oz.; mucilage of gum arabic, 2 ozs.; pure water, 3 ozs.; solution of the sub- carbonate of ammonia, i drachm. Make a mixture. Or, take best olive oil, 1 oz. ; muci- lage of gum arabic, 2 ozs.; oxymel of squills, 3 drachms ; subcarbonate of ammonia, 1 scruple. Make a mixture, of which take a little often, or during the urgency of the cough. If the patient be costive, a clyster of t\im water gruel or of barley water, in which a, handful of mallows or any other emollient vegetable has been boiled, may be daily ad- ministered. This will not only empty the bowels, but have the effect of a warm fomenta- tion applied to the inferior viscera, which will help to make a derivation from the breast. The expectoration may be promoted by sharp, oil}', and mucilaginous medicines. For this purpose 1 oz. of the oxymel or the vinegar of squills may be added to 6 ozs. of the pectoral decoction, and two table-spoonsful of it taken every two hours. Should the squills disagree with the stomach the oily emulsion may be administei-ed ; or, in place of it, 2 ozs. of the oil of sweet almonds, or oil of olives, and 2 ozs. of the syrup of violets, may be mixed with as much sugar candy powdered as will make an electuary of the consistence of honey. The patient may take a tea-spoonful of this frequently when the cough is troublesome. Should oily medicines prove nauseous, which is sometimes the case, two table-spoonsful of the solution of gum ammoniac in barley water may be given three or four times a day. Expectoration and a determination to the skin may also be pro- moted by small nauseating doses of antiraonials, taking care, however, not to excite vomiting, but assisting their action by frequent small draughts of some mild diluent liquor, as barley ■water, thiu gruel, &c, Take emetic tartar. 2 grains ; distilled water, 8 ozs. Take two table- spoonsful every three or four hours. If the patient does not perspire, but has a burning heat upon his skin, and passes very little water, some small doses of purified nitre and camphor will be of use. Two drachms of the former may be rubbed with 5 or 6 grains of the latter in a mortar, and the whole divided into six doses, one of which may be taken every five or six hours in a little of the patient's ordinary drink. We shall only mention one medicine more, which some reckon almost a specific in the pleurisy, viz., the decoction of the seneka rattle- snake root. Take of seneka, or rattlesnake root, 1 oz.; water, 1J pint. Boil to one pint, and strain. This is recommended in the pleurisy, dropsy, rheumatism, and some obstinate dis- orders of the skin. The dose is 2 ozs. three or four times a day, or oftener if the stomach will bear it. After bleeding and other evacuations have been premised the patient may take two, three, or four table-spoonsful of this decoction, accord- ing as the stomach will bear it, three or four times a day. If it should occasion vomiting, 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of simple cinnamon water may be mixed with the quantity of decoction here directed, or it may be taken in smaller doses. As this medicine promotes perspiration and urine, and likewise keeps the body easy, it may be of some service in a pleurisy, or any other inflammation of the breast. When the skin is very hot and diy, saline draughts, or solution of acetated ammonia, may be administered with advantage. Take lemon juice, l^oz. ; subcarbonate of potash, 1 drachm; mint water, 1 oz. ; pure water, 3 ozs. ; nitrate ()f potash, 1 drachm ; syrup of tolu, ^ oz. Make a mixture, of which the dose may be three table spoonsful every four hours, To, allay pain, ease the cough, stop diarrhoea when it arises, or procure sleep, we may employ opium. Take solution of acetated ammonia, 3 drachms ; mint wat^r, 1 oz.; tincture of opium, 25 minims ; syrup of tolu, 2 drachms; antimony wine, 12 drops. Make a draught. If the bowels require evacuation strong purgatives ought not to be given; but gentle aperients of a cooling nature should be used, particularly at the commencement of the disease. For this purpose Epsom salts and manna, in an infusion of senna or ca.stor oil, will be the most proper. Take Epsom salts, 2 drachms; manna, 3 drachms; infusion of senna, IJoz. Make an aperient draught. As opiates evidently tend to check expectoration, which it is desirable to promote, they ought, if possible, to be avoided; but if absolutely necessary, from the exhausted state of the patient for want of sleep, they mayPLO PLU [ 342 ] be given combined with some diaphoretic ; e.g., the compound powder of ipecacuanha, 10 grains, &c. If the patient's strength be much exhausted by the disease it will be necessary, at this time, to support him with frequent small draughts of wine whey, negus, or the like. When the pain and fever are gone it will be proper, after the patient has recovered sufficient strength, to give him some gentle purges. He ought likewise to use a light diet of easy digestion, and his drink should be butter- milk, whey, and other things of a cleansing nature. PLOVERS : To Carve. This is performed nearly in the same manner as directed for a Hare, dividing the back into two pieces, which, with the legs, are the most esteemed parts. PLOVERS : To Choose. Choose them by the hardness of the vent, which shows that they are fat; and when new they are limber-footed. In other respects choose them by the same marks as fowls. There are three sorts—the grey, tiie green, and the bastard plover, or lap- ^ving. PLOVERS: To Dress. Green plovers should be dressed the same as woodcocks, with- out drawing, and served on a toast. Grey plovers should be stewed. Make a forcemeat with the yolks of two hard eggs bruised, some marrow cut fine, artichoke bottoms cut small, and sweet herbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. 2)tuff the birds, and put them into a saucepan ■with just a sufficient quantity of good gravy to cover them, one glass of white wine, and a blade of mace; cover them closely, and let them stew gently till they are tender ; then take up the plovers, lay them in a dish, and keep them hot; put a piece of butter rolled in flour to thicken the sauce, and let it boil till smooth; squeeze into it a little lemon juice, skim it, and pour it over the plovers. PLOVERS, BOILED. They should be boiled in a good celery sauce, white or brown ; or they may be roasted like any other fowl, with good gravy in the dish. PLOVERS' EGGS. Boil them ten minutes, and serve them on a napkin either hot or cold. PLOVERS AU GRATIN. Pick, clean, and singe four plovers; make a farce with their in- testines, excepting the gizzards, minced and mixed with half the quantity of grated bacon, a little shred parsley and shallots, salt, and pepper; fill the plovers with this ; lay a gratin on your dish of about the thickness of an inch, place the plovers on it, and fill the spaces between them with the same; raise the gratin round, but take care not to cover the breast with it; lay slices of bacon over the whole, set it over a moderate fire, with rather a brisk one at the top. When done drain off all the fat, and serve them with an Italienne. PLOVERS A LA PERIGEAUX. Put four plovers into a stewpan, with a dozen whole trufEes skinned, a bouquet, some basil, salt, and pepper; give them a few turns in a little butter, and then add a glass of champagn.3 and six ladlesful of Espagnole; skim well, an.l when done take out the birds and truffles, and place them on a dish, the truffles at the top ; reduce the sauce, add the juice of a lemon, and serve. PLOVERS, ROASTED. Make a farce with the intestines of four plovers au gratin, stuff the birds with this farce, sew it in, and fasten them on skewers; cover them with slices of bacon, and wrap them in paper; fix the skewers to a spit, and roast the birds. When quite done unfasten and dish them. Serve with a ragout of truffles poured over them. PLUCK. See Lamb's Head akd Pluck and Calf's Pltjok. PLUM CAI^:E. See Cake, Plum. PLUM CREAM. This is made in the same manner as Peach Cream with the magnum bonum plum. The other kinds will do, but the one mentioned is the best. PLUM MARMALADE. Take 6 lbs. of plums and 4 lbs. of sugar ; stone and put the fruit into a cullender, beat it through with a wooden pestle into a preserving-pan, which set on the fire to dry the pulp, stirring it constantly. In the meantime clarify and boil the sugar to jMite casse, then mix it with the fruit (still on the fire), and stir till the whole is of the con- sistence of jelly ; then take it off, and pour the marmalade into pots. If the plums are not quite ripe they must be boiled once or twice before they are pressed through the cullender. Some of the kernels may be added if approved. They should be pounded before they are put in the marmalade. PLUM PUDDING. Cut the crumb of a penny loaf into slices, and pour over them a sufficient quantity of boiling milk to soak them. When quite soft beat the bread up with i lb. of clarified suet, -J- lb. of raisins stoned, ^ lb. of currants, sugar to the taste, five eggs well beaten, candied orange, lemon, and citron, and a few bitter almonds pounded. Mix the ingre- dients thoroughly, add a cupful of brandy, pour into a dish, and bake it. When done turn it out and strew powder sugar over. These in- gredients make as good a pudding boiled. Take care to flour well the cloth or mould used for this purpose. Few things require more boiling than a plum pudding; be careful, therefore, to let it be sufficiently done.PLU POI [ 343 ] PtUM PUDDING WITH BREAD AND APPLE. Beat eight eggs in a quart of milk; bread, suet, currants or plums, and apples, of each 8 ozs.; half a glass of brandy, or a glass of wine, with sugar and nutmeg. Boil for three hours, and serve with a wine sauce. It may be thickened over the fire, and baked in a bordered or covered dish. PLUMMER'S PILLS. These, called also compound calomel pills, are thus prepared:— Take calomel and brown sulphuret of anti- mony, of each 1 drachm; guaiac resin in powder, 2 drachms. Rub them together until they be thoroughly mixed, then add as much molasses as will form them into a mass of the proper consistence. These pills were recommended to the attention of the public about forty years ago by Dr. Plummer, whose name they long bore. He represented them as a very useful alterative, and on his authority they were at one time much employed. They are good in doses of from 5 to 10 grains in chronic skin diseases, liver affections, and dyspepsia. PLUMS, CANDIED. Choose plums of a nice shape and good size, cut them in halves, lay them on a large shallow dish, strew powder sugar over, and put them in a moderate oven tightly closed. In half an hour's time take them out, and place the plums one by one on glass plates to dry. PLUMS, CLEAR CAKES OF. Fill a jar with the white pear plums, and set it in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire. When sufficiently done let the clear juice run from it, and to every pint of it add an equal quantity of sugar boiled to candy height; put the juice to the syrup, set It on the fire, and keep stirring it till the whole is quite hot, but not boiling; then pour it into glasses, and dry the cakes in a stove. PLUMS WITH JELLY. When the plums are preserved in their first sugar, drain and strain the syrup through a jelly bag; take some ripe plums and codlins, put them into a sauce- pan with as much water as will cover them, and set them on the fire. When quite soft press out the juice, strain it, and for every pint of juice boil 1 lb. of sugar to souffle; boil the juice a little, then add the syrup and plums, and boil the wh(?le together; take it off, and when it has settled a little skim and pour it into glasses. A little scraped ginger soaked in water for two or three days, and boiled with the above, imparts a fine flavour to the jelly. PLUMS PRESERVED DRY. Gather the plums when full grown and just turning colour, prick and put them into a saucepan of cold water, set them on the fire until the water is on the point of boiling, then take them out, drain and boil them well in some clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil them again. If they shrink, and will not take the sugar, prick them as they lie in the pan, and then give them another boil; skim and set them by. The next day add some more sugar, boiled to souffle, to the fruit and syrup; then do them together, and place them in a stove till next day, when drain the plums from the syrup, sprinkle a little powder sugar over, and dry them in a stove. PLUMS PRESERVED LIQUID. Gather the plums green, firm, and when the stone may be extracted with ease; cut the stalks close, and prick the fruit in several places, especially round the stalk; then place them in a sauce- pan of water over the fire, and as soon as the water is ready to boil take the saucepan from the fire; in twenty-four hours replace the plums in the same water on a gentle fire, with a small quantity of verjuice to preserve their colour. Keep the water hot, without allowing it to boil, for three hours, stirring it occasionally. When the fruit is perfectly green increase the heat till the plums rise to the surface, when they must be taken out and thrown into cold water, which change frequently till the plums are perfectly cold ; then drain them. Put the fruit in some sugar boiled to la nappe; boil it up a few times, adding a little water; skim, and then pour the whole into a pan. The next two days drain off the syrup, and increase the degree of boiling each day; the third and fourth days boil the fruit with the syrup, keeping it covered, and increasing the degree until the last time it reaches to perle. Put the preserve into pots, and place them for two days in a stove. The same fruit may be preserved dry also. The operation is the same, but the syrup is drained off, and the plums laid on tin plates before they are put into the stove. POELEE. Take 2 lbs. of veal, 2 lbs. of bacon, two large carrots, and three onions; cut all these into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with 1 lb. of butter, the juice of three or four lemons, four cloves, two bay leaves bruised, a little thyme, salt, and pepper; set it over a good fire, and when pretty well reduced add a ladleful of pot settlings. As soon as the whole is about half done take it off, and set it by for use. POISONS. (See Antidotes, Corkosivb ScBLiMATE, &c.) More copious details will be found under the names of the poisons most commonly occurrent; but we will here give, for more prompt reference, an epitome of the symptoms and remedies relative to each.POI [ 344 ] ' . POI Substances. Symptoms. Hemedies. COXCENTKATED Acids : the vitri- olic or sulphuric, nitric, muiiatie, oxalic, &c. A.LKALTES : pot- ish, soda, ammo- uia, lime, &c. Mercurial Pre- parations : corro- sive sublimate, &c. Arsenical Pre- parations : white arsenic, &c. Preparations of Copper : brass, ver- digris, halfpence,&c Preparations of Antimony : emetic tartar, &c. Nitre, or Salt- petre. Phosphorus. Lead : sugar of lead, Goulard's ex- tract, &c. Barttes: the carbonate, muriate, &c. Prussic Acid. Sal Ammoniac. Glass, or Ena- iJEL. Alcohol: bran- dy, rum, gin, wine. Burning pain, vomiting, matter thrown up effer- vescing with chalk, salt of tartar, lime, or magnesia. Nearly the same: the ejected matter does not effervesce with alkalies, but with acids. Sense of constriction in the throat; matter vomited sometimes mixed with blood. Extreme irritation; pain, sickness, and speedy death if the poison be not soon counteracted. Symptoms nearly the same as from mercury. Extreme sickness, with other symptoms of poison, as above stated. Obstinate vomiting, some- times of blood, &c. Like mineral acids, Great pain in the sto- mach, with constriction of the throat, &e. Vomiting, convulsions, palsy, pain in the stomach, &c. The most virulent of poi- sons, producing almost in- stant death when applied even in small quantities to the surface of the body. Excessive vomitings, con- vulsions, pain in the bowels, alteration of the features, death. If taken in coarse powder it produces irritation and in- flammation of the bowels. ' Intoxication; when taken in large quantities, insensibi- lity, apoplexy, or paralysis; countenance swollen, and of a dark red colour; breathing difficult; often death. Calcined magnesia, 1 oz. to a pint of warm or cold water. A glassful to be taken every two minutes, so as to excite vomiting. Soap or chalk and water ; mucilaginous drinks after- wards, such as linseed tea or gum arable and water. Vinegar or lemon juice, a spoonful or two in a glass of water very frequently. Simply warm water. White of eggs ; twelve or fifteen eggs beaten up, and mixed with a quart of cold water. A glassful every three minutes. Milk, gum water, linseed tea. Warm water with sugar, in large quan- tities, to excite vomiting. Lime water, soap and water, pearlash and water, mucilaginous drinks. White of eggs ; mucilaginous drinks. See Mercurial Preparations, above. Warm water, or sugar and water; afterwards 1 grain of opium, or 15 drops of laudanum, every quarter of an hour for two or three times. The same afs for arsenic, with the exception of lime water and alkalies- Like mineral acids. Large doses of Glauber's or Epsom salts in warm water. Half an ounce of Epsom or Glauber's salts dissolved in a quart of water. Several glasses to be taken. In place of these salts large draughts of hard well water. Emetics: afterwards oil of turpentine, ammonia, brandy, with warmth, friction, and blisters. Vomiting, to be rendered easy by large draughts of warm sugar and water. If vomit- ing be not produced by the poison it must ba excited by the finger. Afterwards opiates. Large quantities of crumb of bread should be eaten. Afterwards an emetic of whit© vitriol and demulcent drinks. A powerful emetic of white vitriol or emetio tartar; vomiting to be encouraged by warm water and large clysters of salt and water; bleeding. If the head be very hot, cold wet cloths may be applied. If the extremities be cold, friction.POI POI £ 345 ] Substances. Symptoms. Remedies. Ireitating Ve- .GETABLE PoiSONS : monkshood, mea- dow saffron, ipeca- cuanha, hellebore, bear's foot, savin, &c. Narcotics: opi- um, henbane, hem- lock, nightshade, &c. Acrid Nabco- Tics: mushrooms ; nux vomica, St. Ignatius's bean, the upas, Cocculus Indicus, &c. Poisonous Fish : old wife, lobster, crab, dolphin, con- ger eel, muscle, &c. Poisonous Ser- pents : the viper, or adder, rattle- snake, &c, Spanish Flies. Venomous In- sects : tarantula, scorpion, hornet, wasp, oee, gnat, &c. Acrid taste; excessive heat; violent vomitings ; purging; great pain in the stomach and bowels. Ex- ternally applied, many of them produce inflammation, blisters, pustules. Stupor, desire to vomit, heaviness in the head, di- lated pupil of the eye, deli- rium, speedy death. Nausea, heat, pain in the stomach and bowels, vomit- ing, purging, thirst, convul- sions, cold sweats, death. None of these inflame the part they touch. Introduced into the stomach, or applied to wounds, they are rapidly absorbed, producing gene- rally rigidity, convulsions, and death. In an hour or two, or sooner, after some fish have been eaten, more especially if stale, weight at the sto- mach, sickness, giddiness, thirst, &c., come on; in some cases death. A sharp pain in the wounded part, soon extend- ing over the body; great swelling, first hard and pale, then reddish; faint- ings, vomiting, convulsions; inflammation, often exten- sive suppuration, gangrene, and death. Nauseous odour of the breath; burning heat in the throat and stomach; vomit- ing, often bloody; bloody stools; painful priapism, heat in the bladder, con- vulsions, delirium, death. In general only a slight degree of pain and swell- ing ; sometimes sickness and fever. If vomiting be produced by the poison, large draughts of warm water or thin gruel to render it easier. If insensibility be present, white vitriol or other active emetic, after the operation of which a brisk purgative, then strong infusion of coffee, or vinegar diluted with water. Four or five grains of emetic tartar in a glass of water. If this does not succeed, 4 grains of blue vitriol as an emetic. Do not give large quantities of water. After the poison has been ejected give vinegar, lemon juice, or cream of tartar, and strong coffee. Three grains of emetic tartar in a glass of water: in fifteen minutes the dose to be repeated. After vomiting, frequent doses of Glauber's or Epsom salts, and stimulating clysters, The emetic as under mushroom. Lungs to be inflated. Two ounces of water, 1 drachm of ether, 2 drachms of oil of turpen- tine, and ^ oz. of sugar mixed together, two spoonsful of which to be taken every ten minutes. An emetic; vomiting to be excited by tickling the throat with the finger, and by draughts of warm water. After vomiting, an active purgative. Afterwards vinegar and water, or water sweetened with sugar, and an addition of ether. After the evacuations, laudanum. A moderately tight ligature to be applied above the bite, and the wound left to bleed, after being washed with warm water. The actual cautery, lunar caustic, or butter of antimony to be applied; then lint dipped in equal parts of olive oil and spirit of hartshorn. Ligature to be removed if the inflammation be considerable, Warm diluting drinks, with small doses of am- monia or hartshorn, to cause perspiration. The patient should be well covered in bed, drinking occasionally warm wine. If gangrene threaten, wine and bark must be given freely. Vomiting freely excited by sweet oil, sugar and water, milk, or linseed tea; emollient clysters. Camphor dissolved in oil may be, rubbed over the belly and thighs. Hartshorn and oil, salt and water: a few drops of hartshorn may be taken internally in a glass of water. The sting may, in general, be removed by making a strong pressure over it with the barrel of a small watch key.POM [ 346 ] POI POIVEADE. Put into a stewpan a large Dunch of parsley leaves, some scallions, some bay leaves, a little thyme, a dessert-spoonful of fine white pepper, a glass of vinegar, and a small quantity of butter ; set the pan on the fire and reduce the whole till nearly all gone, when add two ladlesful of Espagnole and one of stock; reduce these again to the proper con- sistence, and strain it for use. POKER. This should never be left in the fire long enough to get red-hot. As much air may be admitted among the fuel by gently raising it up, and then withdrawing the poker, as by leaving it in to get oxidised, or " burnt away." Many accidents occur from the im- propriety of leaving the poker in the fire after stirring it, the best way of avoiding which is never to leave it in such a situa- tion. But if a small cross of iron, projecting about an inch and a half each way, were welded or soldered above the square part of the poker, called the bit, it could not be thrust into the fire farther than that part; and if it should fall out the fender would most probably aiTest it, and prevent its falling on the floor, and of course prevent the mischief; and should it even fall on the floor, the probability is that the heated part could not remain in contact with it. POLENTA. See Mush. POLYPUS. This troublesome excrescence is usually considered as within the practice of the surgeon only, but we know it to be much under the control of diet and medicine. In support of our own knowledge we quote the following statement by Mr. Abernethy:— " I have known several instances of persons who have for a long time been subject to polypi of the nose, in which the polypi ceased to grow after some attention had been paid to correct a disorder of the digestive organs. In further confirmation of the opinion that diseases of the nose depend much upon the state of the sto- mach, I shall mention the case of a woman who had a disease of the nose which I expected would at least prove very tedious and very troublesome, but which got well speedily under simple dressings, in consequence, as it appeared, from the effect of internal medicines. " Case. The patient was between thirty and forty years of age, had a furred tongue, bowels alternately costive and lax, and the discharges discoloured. An enlargement of the left ala nasi, caused by a great thickening of the parts covering and lining the cartilage, had gradually taken place. The skin was discoloured, and an ulcer, about the size of a sixpence, had formed on the under surface of the ala. The sore was deep, with a sloughing surface, and uneven and spreading edges. Spermaceti cerate was em- ployed as a dressing, and the external skin was frequently bathed with Goulard's wash. She was ordered to take internally 5 grains of rhu- barb an hour before dinner, 5 grains of the pil. hydrarg. every second night, and the infusion of gentian with senna occasionally. The sore ceased to spread, the swelling gradually sub- sided, and all diseased appearances were re- moved in the course of a month. The patient also found her health considerably amended." POMATUM, COMMON. Melt together 3 lbs. of lard and 1 lb. of suet. Stir in whilst cooling 2 ozs. of essence of lemon or bergamot, or of any other perfume preferred. POMATUM, FRENCH. Beef marrow, purified as for Pommade Divine, 1 oz.; hog's lard, 1 oz.; spermaceti, 1 oz.; oil of ben, 1 pint. You may substitute for oil of ben either fresh olive oil or fresh cold-drawn oil of sweet almonds. Melt the above articles together in a hot-water bath, then strain the liquid oil through a linen bag, and stir in a dessert- spoonful of oil of bergamot, 10 drops of oil of roses, and the same quantity of oil of nutmeg. POMATUM, HARD. Melt together i lb. of lard, i lb. of suet, and 2 ozs. of white wax. Stir in ^ oz. of essence of lemon or other per- fume, and pour into moulds made of stiff paper. POMATUM, HONEY. Melt gently together in the hot-water bath honey, ^ lb.; hog's lard, 2 ozs.; balsam of Peru, ^ lb. Strain them through a muslin rag, and when sufficiently cold stir in oil of cedrat 20 drops, oil of nutmeg 10 drops, civet 2 grains. POMATUM, ROLL. This is made and modelled in the same way, but the following ingredients are employed:—Suet, 1 lb. ; white wax, H oz; spermaceti, J oz.; oil of lavender, 30 drops; oil of bergamot, 20 drops. See Cosmetics. POMEGRANATES, SYRUP OF. Take five very ripe large pomegranates, extract the seeds, which must be very red; crush and put them into a skillet, with half a pint of water; set them on the fire till soft, and then squeeze the juice through a new coarse cloth; clarify l^lb. of sugar, and boil it to souffle; then add the juice, and boil them together to the usual consistence of syrups. It must not be bottled till quite cold. This number of pome- granates will yield a quart of syrup. POMEGRANATES, TRANSPARENT JELLY OF. Take the seeds from five very fine pomegranates, from which extract the juice by pressing it hard through a horsehair sieve; filter this juice, and mix it with some syrup tinged of a rose colour with a little cochineal; add the isinglass to thi^,' and finish as usual.POM POP [ 347 ] POMMADE DIVINE. Half an avoirdupois pound of beef marrow is to be well cleansed from bones and membranous matter, and then put into a pan of spring water. The water must be changed twice a day during ten suc- cessive days, when it must be drained off. By this time the marrow will be much altered, being now converted into a substance called adipocere. A pint of rose water is added to the altered marrow, which is left to soak in it during twenty-four hours. The rose water being then drained off, the following ingredients, reduced to impalpable powder, are incorporated with the marrow : — Storax, 1 oz.; beuzoin, 1. oz.; cypress root, 1 oz.; Florentine orris root, 1 oz.; cinnamon, 4 drachms ; cloves, 2 drachms ; nutmeg, 2 drachms. The mixture thus formed is put into a closely-stopped pewter vessel, which is set in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire. Let the water boil during three hours, gradually supplying the loss by evaporation, so as not to check the boiling, and taking care that the pewter vessel is always under water. Strain the pomatum through muslin, pour it into pomatum pots, and when quite cold tie paper and bladder over the mouth of each pot. See Cosmetics. PONE, COLD-WATER. Make a stiff batter with a quart of Indian-corn meal, cold water, and a little salt; work it well with the hand, grease a pan or oven, and bake it three quarters of an hour. Eat it hot at dinner, or with milk at supper. PONE, LIGHTENED. Take half a gallon of Indian-corn meal, pour boiling water on one- third of it, and mix it together with warm water till it is a thick batter; put in two table-spoonsful of lively yeast and one of salt, stir it well, and set it by the fire to rise. When it begins to open on the top grease the Dutch oven, and put it to bake, or bake it in a pan in a stove. PONE, VIRGINIA. Beat three eggs, and stir them in a quart of milk, with a little salt, a spoonful of melted butter, and as much sifted Indian-coi-n meal as will make it as thick as corn batter cakes; grease the pans, and bake quickly. POPE'S POSSET. Beat f lb. of almonds, sweeten and boil a pint of sherry, or any other wine, and boil the almonds in half a pint of water; mix them boiling hot together, beat them smooth with a spoon, and serve hot in a china basin. POPPY. (See Opium.) Poppy heads are the dried seed-vessels or capsules of the plant, and are used in medicine as an external emol- lient and anodyne application; in the form of emulsion, syrup, or extract, they are often used internally to calm irritation, promote rest, and produce the narcotic effects of opium. Poppy seeds do not possess any of the nai'cotic or acrid properties of the plant, but, on the contrary, consist of a simple farinaceous matter, abound- ing in a bland oil, which is obtained by ex- pression. In some parts of Europe and the East they are employed as an article of food, being baked in cakes, or strewed upon bread and butter. The ancients rolled them up in their bread to excite an appetite. Virgil calls it cereale papaver, either from the seeds being eaten as food, or from its being sown among the corn as an offering to Ceres, to whom the plant was dedicated, and who is always represented crowned with poppies. Tournefort observes that poppy seeds iucrusted with sugar, after the manner of comfits, are extensively consumed by all classes of the Genoese. They are eaten by the Egyptians and Persians, and Gilibert in- forms us that they are made into puddings by the inhabitants of Lithuania; and they may be employed in emulsions for the same purposes as sweet almonds. Poppy seed is consumed to a considerable extent under the name of maw- seed, being given to singing birds as a cooling food when they are moulting. Poppy oil is sweet, almost inodorous, of an agreeable taste, and very wholesome. It is not only frequently mixed with, but is used as a substitute for olive oil, and is applied to many domestic purposes instead of butter, and to the finer kinds of oil painting. It burns and smokes badly, is drying, saponaceous, and does not solidify nor become rancid. The cake or residue, after the oil is expressed, forms a nutritious food for cattle, like the linseed-oil cake. In 1700, when the olive crop failed, the poppy oil furnished a ready and acceptable substitute. Pcqmver rhtnas, or corn poppy, so common in the corn-fields of England, and no small source of annoyance to the farmer, has its uses also. The heads contain the same milky juice as the common poppy, and opium has been extracted from them, but in so small a quantity that the return does not remunerate for the labour. The petals—which have a narcotic smell, are mucilaginous, and slightly bitter—are employed officinally, more for the beautiful scarlet colour which they communicate to water than for any medicinal virtues which they may possess. A syrup is prepared from them, which was formerly prescribed in catarrhal affections, but is now valued only for its colour- ing properties. The colouring principle of the flowers is formed by two acids, which are termed rhmadic and papaveric acids. Theocritus tells us that the Greeks had a custom of taking a petal of the com poppy, and laying it on the thumb and forefinger of one hand, and slapping it with the other. If it gave a crack it was a sign their lovers loved them; but if it failed theyPOR POR I 348 ] lamented their disappointment. In the third Idyllium the goatherd tells AmarvHis that he had lately tried whether she loved him, but the telephion gave no crack. PORCELAIN. See Earthilkwaee. PORK. The carcass of the hog consists of the following:— 1. The leg, 4. The fore-loin. 2. The hand. 5. The hind-loiii. 3. The belly or spring. 6. The sparerib. Dairy-fed pork is the best. The flesh should look white and smooth, and the fat be white and fine. In preparing a hog for bacon the ribs are cut, with a very little flesh on them, from the side, which has the fore and hind-leg attached to it. The hind-leg is called the gammon of bacon; but it is generally re- served for a ham. On each side there is a large sparerib, which is usually divided into two pieces, one called the sweet-bone, the other the blade- bone. There are also griskins, chine, or back- bone. Hog's lard is the inner fat of the bacon hog. Porkers are not so old as hogs. They make excellent pickled pork, but are chosen more particularly for roasting. The manner of cutting up the pork varies in different counties, and also according to the purposes for which it is intended. The legs are either made into hams, or slightly salted for a few days, and boiled. They are also sometimes roasted when the pork is not large nor coarse, with a savoury forcemeat inserted between the skin and flesh of the knuckle. The part ,of the shoulder called the hand is also occasionally pickled in the same way as hams and bacon, or it may be salted and boiled; but it is too sinewy for roasting. After these and the head have been taken off, the remainder', w'ithout further division than being split down the back, may be converted into whole sides, or flitches, as they are usually called, of bacon ; but when the meat is large, and required in part for various other purposes, a chine may be taken out, and the fat pared off the bones of the ribs and loins for bacon ; the thin part of the body converted iatP pickled pork; and the ribs and other bones roasted, or made into pies and sausages. The feet, which are generally salted down for imme- diate use, are excellent if laid in the same pickle as the hams two or three weeks, then well covered with cold water, and slowly boiled until tender, The loins of young and delicate pork are roasted with the skin on, and this is scored in regular stripes of about a quarter of an inch ■wide, with the point of a sharp knife, before the joints are laid to the fire. The skin of the leg also is just cut through in the same manner. This is done to prevent its blistering, and to render it more easy to carve, as the skin or crackling becomes so crisp and hard in cooking that it is otherwise sometimes difficult to divide it. To be at any time fit for table it must be perfectly sweet and thoroughly cooked. Great attention also should be given to it when it is iu pickle, for if any part of it be long exposed to the air, without being turned into, or ^yell and frequently basted with, the brine, it will often become tainted during the process of curing it. To roast a leg a small onion is minced to- gether with three sage leaves, seasoned with pepper and salt, and put under the skin at the knuckle-bone. The skin is cut into strips nearly half an inch apart, and rubbed over with a bit of butter. If weighing 7 lbs. or 8 lbs. it will require nearly three hours to roast. A sparerib should be roasted. It is basted with butter, and has sage leaves, dry, rubbed to a powder, and mijvcd with salt and pepper, sprinkled over it. Both a loin and neck are jointed, the skin scored in narrow strips, and rubbed with butter. If weighing 6 lbs. or 7 lbs. it will require rather more than two hours to roast, A griskin may be either broiled or roasted. A chine is stuffed here and there with bread crumbs mixed with a little butter, and seasoned some with finely shred sage, parsley, and thyme, pepper, and salt. The skin is cut into strips, and rubbed with butter; it is then roasted, and served with apple sauce, as are also the preceding roasts. A porker's head is stuffed like a sucking pig, sewed firmly, and hung on a string to roast. The shoulder maybe roasted; but, being very fat, it is generally preferred pickled. The breast may be made into a pie or broiled. Hams should be put on the fire in water with the chill taken off, and simmered for four or five hours, taking care not to allow them to boil. The prime season for pork is from November to March. Take particular care it be done enough; other meats underdone are unpleasant, but pork is absolutely disgusting; the sight of it is enough to appal the sharpest appetite if its gravy has the least tint of redness.POR POR [ 349 ] Be careful of the crackling that it be crisp, and not burned. Pickled pork takes more time for boiling than any other meat. If you buy your pork ready salted, ask how many days it has been in salt: if many, it will require to be soaked in water for six. hours before you dress it. When you cook it wash and scrape it as clean as possible. When delicately dressed it is a favourite dish with almost everybody. Take care it does not boil fast; if it does, the knuckle will break to pieces before the thick part of the meat is warmed through. A leg of 7 lbs. should simmer very slowly three hours and a half. Skim your pot very carefully, and when you take the meat out of the boiler scrape it clean. A leg of pork nicely salted and nicely boiled is as fine a cold relish as cold ham, especially if, instead of cutting into the middle when hot, and so letting out its juices, you cut it at the knuckle: slices broiled are a good luncheon or supper. Some persons who sell pork ready salted have a silly trick of cutting the knuckle in two. We suppose this is done to save their salt; but it lets all the gravy out of the leg ; and unless you boil your pork merely for the sake of the pot liquor, which in this case receives all the goodness and strength of the meat, friendly reader, your oracle cautions you to buy no leg of pork which is slit at the knuckle. If pork is too much boiled it not only loses its colour and flavour, but its substance becomes soft like a jelly. It must never appear at table without parsnips (they ai'e an e.x.cellent vegetable, and deserve to be much more popular), or carrots, turnips, and greens, or mashed potatoes, &c. Do not forget the mustard- pot. PORK- To Ciioose. The meat is so pro- verbially, and we believe dangerously, unwhole- some when ill fed, or in any degree diseased, that its quality should be closely examined be- fore it is purchased. When not home fatted it should be bought, if possible, of some respect- able farmer or miller, unless the butcher who supplies it can be perfectly relied on. Both the fat and lean should be very white, the latter finely grained , the rind should be thin, smooth, and cool to the touch; if it be clammy the pork is stale, and should be at once rejected ; it ought also to be scrupulously avoided when the fat, instead of being quite clear of all blemish, is full of small kernels, whicli are indicative of dlSGflSG PORK, BLADE-BONE OF. It should be broiled, and when nearly done peppered and salted. Put to it a piece of butter and a tea- spoonful of mustard, and serve it very hot. The blade-bone is taken from the bacon hog : the less meat left on it, in moderation, the l)GttGr. PORK CHEESE. Take a pig's head, and having boned it, cut all the meat into rather thick slices ; do the same with the ears ; sepa- rate the fat from the lean, and mix the whole with bay leaf, thyme, basil, sage, parsley (all shred small), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spices, with the peel and juice of a lemon. Lay the skin of the head open over a salad bowl, arrange the pieces in it, intermixing with them a little leaf fat, tongue d Vicariate, and truffles. When all are put in wrap the skin round them, sew it up very tightly, and dress it as directed for Hog's Head. When sufficiently done take it from the fire, and whilst warm put it in a mould to give it any shape you may desire. PORK CHINE. Cut this piece as square as possible, and leave the fat on it an inch thick; score it, skewer it into proper form, and roast it for two hours. Serve it with tomato, piquant, or Robert sauce. PORK, CHINE OF (Roasted). The chine should be parted down the back-bone. Cut the rind in scores, lay the joint before a good clear fire, and when done (which, if it is 12 lbs. weight, will be in three hours) put gravy into the dish, and some sage round the edge. Serve as the preceding. Chines of pork are commonly salted and boiled. PORK, CHINE OF (Stuffed). Take a chine of pork that has been in piclde four or five days, cut some holes in the lean, and stuff it with a little of the leaf fat chopped extremely small, some parsley, thyme, a small quantity of sage, and shallots, cut very fine, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. It should be stuffed pretty thickly, and served with good gravy in the dish. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served with it. PORK CHITTERLINGS. Take the fat guts of a pig, wash and cut them into such loigths as you may desire, and then put them into vinegar and water, with thyme, bay leaf, and basil, for twelve hours, after which chop up a part of the above, some fresh pork and leaf fat, and season them with salt, pepper, four kinds of spices, and a little anise in powder; put these into the remaining guts so as to fill them about two-thirds, tie them up, and boil them in equal quantities of water and milk, to which add salt, thyme, basil, and bay leaf. When done leave them to cool in the liquor. They must be broiled before they are sent to the table. PORK CHOPS, BROILED. Broil them in the same manner as mutton chops, but they re(iuire more doing. Put a little good gravy to them, and strew over a little sage shred finely, which very much improves the flavour.[ 350 ] POR POR PORK CUTLETS f 1). Take a loin of pork, and cut it; then divide it into cutlets; strew over them some parsley and thyme cut small, with pepper, salt, and grated bread ; broil them of a fine brown. Have ready some good gravy, a spoonful of ready-made mustard, and two shallots shred small; boil all these together over the fire, and thicken with a piece of butter rolled in floui*. If agreeable add a little vinegar. Serve the cutlets in a hot dish, with the sauce poured over them. PORK CUTLETS (2). Cut the pork chops the same as veal cutlets, leaving a little fat on them ; beat them to flatten them into a good shape; broil them, and when thoroughly done serve with sauce Rohert or gherkins. ■PORK, FILLET OF (Roasted). Take a piece of back pork, cut the chine-bone from the under part, and let it lie in a marinade all night. When to be roasted run a lark spit through, tie it on another spit, cover it with paper, and roast it gently; and when to be served up, if not coloured enough, glaze it lightly, and serve it with a sauce Robert under- neath. PORK FRITTERS are made in the same manner as veal fritters : the pig's fry makes the best. They should be fried in olive oil, and made of a lighter colour than other fritters. PORK AS GOOSE. Having parboiled the leg, take off the skin, and then put it down to roast; baste it with butter, and when nearly done sprinkle it with a powder made of dry sage, ground black pepper, salt, and grated bread, rubbed together through a cullender. You may add a minced onion to the mixture. Put half a pint of gravy into a dish, and goose stuffing under the skin of the knuckle, or garnish with balls of it either fried or boiled. PORK GRISKIN. Pork griskin is, in general, extremely hard. The best way to prevent this is by putting it into a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover it, and let it boil up ; then instantly take it off, and put it into a Dutch oven, and it will be done in a few minutes. It should be rubbed all over with butter and floured before it is put to the fire. See Geiskin : To Dress. PORK, HASHED (with Onions). Cut a cold roasted chine of pork into small slices, and clear away all the skin; take fifteen large onions, cut them in halves, take out the hearts, and cut them into thin rings ; fry them lightly, drain and put them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of consomme. When reduced to a glaze add the meat and four spoonsful of Espagnole. Make it hot without boiling, put in some butter, and serve it. PORK AS LAMB. Take a young pig of four or five months old, cut up the fore-quarter as you would that of a lamb for roasting, and truss the shank up closely. The other parts will make good pickled pork, steaks, or pies. PORK, LEG OF (Barbicued). Put a leg of pork before the fire to roast, put a good deal of red wine into the dripping-pan, and baste it well all the time it is roasting. If there is not enough port in at first add more: it will take about three pints. Cut the skin from the bottom of the shanks in rows of an inch broad, raise every row, and roll to the shank. Have ready a pint of strong gravy, and add to it a pint of red wine, a couple of anchovies, a bundle of sweet herbs, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and pounded fine, with I lb. of butter, the juice of a lemon, and two spoonsful of catsup. Let the gravy and wine be well boiled together, and the anchovies with them; strain these off, and add the other ingredients ; let them boil a few- minutes, froth the pork, take it up, pour part ' of the sauce over it, and put the rest in a boat. PORK, LEG OF (Boiled). Take a leg of pork that has been in salt eight or ten days, and when it is to be dressed weigh it; let it soak in cold water half an hour to make it white, allowing a quarter of an hour to every pound, and half an hour over from the time it boils up : as soon as it boils skim it, and so continue. Allow water enough. It should be boiled in a cloth nicely floured : this adds much to the delicacy of its appearance. The pork should be small, and of a fine grain. Serve peas pudding and turnips with it. PORK, LEG OF (Broiled). Skin part of the fillet, cut it into thin slices, score them on the back with a knife, and season with salt and pepper, sage and thyme, minced small; then broil them on a gridiron, dish them, and let their sauce be butter, vinegar, and mustard. PORK, LEG OF (Roasted). Make choice of a small leg of fine young pork; with a sharp knife cut a slit in the knuckle, and fill the place -with chopped sage and onion, and a little pepper and salt. When half roasted score the skin in slices, being careful not to cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. PORK, LOIN AND NECK OF. They should be roasted. With a sharp penknife cut the skin of the loin across at the distance of half an inch. PORK, NECK OF (Rolled). Take a neck of pork, and remove all the bones ; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and a few berries of all- spice, over the inside; then roll the meat as tightly as you can, and let it roast slowly, placing it at first a good distance from the fire.POR POR [ 351 ] PORK AND PEAS. Take 2 lbs. of the belly part of pickled pork, but if it is too salt let it lie in water the night before it is used. Put on the ingredients, as already directed for Pea Soup, in three quarts of water ; boil gently two hours, then put in the pork, and continue boiling gently till it is done enough, which will be in about an hour and a half or two hours. When done wash the meat clean in hot water, serve it up in a dish by itself, and the soup in a tureen. PORK, PICKLED : To Boil. Let it lie in salt eight or ten days, and before it is dressed soak it in cold water half an hour. Allow a quarter of an hour to every pound, and half an hour additional from the time it boils up. Skim the pot frequently, and take care that it has plenty of water, some of which, when done, may be saved for pea soup. Some cooks boil a leg of pork in a floured cloth to give it a white appearance. Serve it with peas pudding, and turnips or parsnips. PORK PIE. Cut into chops a piece of loin of pork, with the rind and part of the under bone cut off; season them with pepper and salt, cover them with puff paste, bake the pie, and when ready to be served put in some cuUis, with the essence of two onions and a little mustard mixed with it. PORK PIE, CHESHIRE. Skin a loin of pork, cut it into steaks, which season with salt, nutmeg, and pepper; make a good crust; put into the dish first a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins pared and cored, with sufficient sugar to sweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork; put in half a pint of wine, some butter on the top, and close your pie. If it is a large one it will require a pint of wine. PORK, POTTED. Cut the meat from a leg of pork into pieces, pound it very well in a mortar, season it well with salt and pepper, then mix the meat with rosemary and sage shred small, and put it into a pot to bake, with 1 lb. of butter. When it comes out of the oven drain it from the gravy, and press it down closely in a dry pot; then, having skimmed off all the butter from the gravy, clarify as much more butter as will cover the meat an inch thick in the pot; cover the pot with wet paper, and set it in a cool place. PORK SAUSAGES. Take 2 lbs. of lean pork, 3 lbs. of chine fat free from skin, some sage leaves chopped fine, pounded cloves, pepper, and salt; he&t it fine, and either press it into pots, and roll it when it is used, or put it into skins. PORK, SHOULDER AND BREAST OF. Put them into pickle, or the shoulder may be salted as a leg. When they are very nice they may be roasted PORK, SPARERIB OF. See Spareeib. PORK STEAKS. Cut them off the neck or loin of the thickness of half an inch. When the gridiron is hot rub it with suet, lay the steaks thereon, and keep turning them quickly, taking care that no fat drops from them into the fire to raise a smoke, which may be pre- vented in some degree by holding the gridiron slopingly. When done put some good gravy to them, and, that they may have an agreeable flavour, strew over them a little dry sage pul- verised. PORKER'S HEAD: To Roast. Take a fine young head, thoroughly clean it, and add bread and sage the same as for a sucking pig ; sew it up tightly, roast it like a pig on a string or hanging-jack, and serve it with the same sauce as for a pig. PORRIDGE. See Milk and Oatmeal Por- EIDGE. PORT is so called from being shipped at Oporto. It is produced in the province of Upper Douro, under a monopoly granted by the government to the Oporto Wine Company in 1756, and this company has the exclusive com- merce of the wine part. Its members are bound to take the wine of each cultivator at a fixed price, and the cultivator cannot sell it to any other person but through the company, who receive a toll of six per cent, upon the value of the sale. A certain district is marked out by its charter as the only one on the Douro in which wine is to be raised for exportation, and the entire and absolute disposal of the wine produced in this district is in the hands of the company. The country is divided into districts, one of which furnishes the wines called Vintos de Feitoria, and the other Vintos de Ramo. The first are much superior in quality to the other ; they ferment longer in the vat, and when barreled one-twelfth part of strong brandy is added. These wines are first very high-coloured, firm, and too fiery; but, when matured by keeping in casks and bottles, the brandy ceases to be tasted, their colours weaken, they become fine and delicate, and have spirit and flavour. The Vintos de Ramo, among which some are very good, ferment 'a shorter time, and are less brandied : some even have none. Butthese wines are considered inferior, and form the common drink of the country. The best variety of port in the Upper Douro is Pezo de Regua, and is considered superior to any other wine of the factory. PORTER was at first called entire, or entire butt, because drawn from one cask ; whereas ale, beer, and twopenny, which had previously been in common use, were usually mixed in various proportions, and went by the corre- sponding names of half-and-half and three-P 0 s [ 352 ] POT threads. Porter was introduced in 172Q by Harwood, a London brewer, and being con- sumed largely by the London porters, thence received its name. It may be made of the following ingredients : — Pale malt, 1 bushel ; amber malt, 1 bushel; brown malt, I bushel. Mash at twice with 1 barrel and f barrel of water. Boil with 2 lbs. of brovvu Kent hops. Ferment with 1^ lb. of yeast. Conduct the different processes as directed for Brewing. To convert porter into stout add 5 quarts of treacle, 5 pints of colouring [see Ale), and i pint of finings, to a barrel of porter. Mix all together thoroughly, let it rest for a week, and then rack it off into another cask. POST. See Letters. POSTURES. Standing, though useful as a change after long sitting, is apt to occasion accumulations of blood, or rather the serous part of it, in the lower extremities. Swelled legs are, therefore, common among printers. It is a posture little calculated to relieve the studious, and the body is, at the same time, more fatigued by standing than sitting. If we sit much we must attend to the two follow- ing rules: firstly, that no part of the body be compressed ; and secondly, that sitting be not too long continued at one time. The common manner of sitting with the head reclined is ex- tremely pernicious, for the circulation of the fluids in the abdomen is thus checked, the intestines are compressed, and the vessels of the breast contracted. The head also suffers by bending it too much forward, as the blood is thus impelled to circulate towards it more copiously than is consistent with health. The studious especially would do well not to perform all their avocations in a sedentary posture, but occasionally to relieve at once their body and mind by stand- ing or walking about the room. The mode of sitting ought also to be made as convenient as possible, so that both the body and head may be kept in an almost perpendicular posture; that the breast and abdomen may not be obstructed in their alternate expansion ; and lastly, that the arms and legs may not be held in a crooked and unnatural position. All this should be particularly attended to by those who teach children to read and write. The pressure of the abdominal muscles may in a great measure be prevented by high tables and desks, and by raised stools or chairs, upon which a person rather stands than sits. To lie or rest horizontally is attended with a cessation of all exercise. If the head be placed low, and this too long continued, headache may be the consequence, from the increased pressure of the blood on the brain. Here, likewise, a frequent change of posture is necessary, in order to obstruct none of the bodily functions, and to prevent the stagnation of humours, POT POURRI. For the following we are indebted to Beasley's " Druggist's General Receipt Book:"—Gather in the season the petals of the most fragrant kinds of roses, with which other flowers may be mixed at pleasure in smaller proportion ; spread them out to dry in the sun, or in a warm room ; sprinkle a little salt on them, and put them into a jar, in which they are to be kept covered up till wanted for use. Take of these rose leaves 4 ozs. ; dried lavender flowers, 8 ozs.; vanilla, cloves, storax, and benzoin, all bruised, of each 1 drachm ; ambergris, 20 grains ; otto of roses, 20 drops. Mix. Or, calamus root, yellow sanders, of each 1 oz. ; vanilla, 1 drachm; musk, 8 grains ; amber- gris, 8grains ; cascarilla, 1 oz.; orris root, 3 ozs.; cinnamon, 1 oz. ; lavender flowers, 1 oz. ; storax, benzoin, cloves, of each 2 drachms; coriander seeds, 1 oz.; nutmeg, 2 drachms; otto of roses, 20 drops; oil of Deroli, 10 drops. The dry ingredients to be coarsely bruised. Mix. Or, orris root, 16 ozs.; dried acacia flowers, 8 ozs.; dried bergamot peel, 2 ozs.; musk seed, ^ oz.; cloves, i oz. Pound them together. Pot Poueri, French. Take the petals of the pale and red roses, pinks, violets, moss rose, orange flower, lily of the valley, acacia flowers, clove gillyflowers, mignonette, heliotrope, and jonquils, with a small proportion of the flowers of myrtle, balm, rosemary, and thyme ; spread them out for some days, and as they become dry put them into a jar with alternate layers of dry salt, mixed with orris powder, till the vessel is full. Shut it up for a month, then stir the whole up, and moisten it with rose water. Sachets, or Scent Bags. The pot pourri of the preceding receipts may be put into bags alone, or with any other perfume to increase the strength. POTAGE ITALIEN. Take carrots, turnips, onions, pai'snips, celery, lettuce, and sorrel in equal quantities ; boil them in salt and water, and then put them into fresh water; cut the roots in slices of an equal length, and then cut them finer. Cut the sorrel, lettuce, and celery in the same manner; wash the whole in a quantity of water, drain them, put i lb. of butter into a stewpan, and give them a slight colour over a furnace: moisten them with a ladleful of bouillon or stock. When half done put in the sorrel, let it simmer till done enough, and skim. Have ready at the time of serving a millonage, and pour it over. POTAGE A LA PEINE. Cut out the breasts of three fowls, bard with bacon and paper, roast or braise them in a stewpan, which must be covered with ham, veal, one onion,[ 353 ] POT POT two or three carrots, and a tutich of seasoned parsley; cover them lightly with thin slices of lard, and afterwards with two or three rounds of buttered paper, that they may not take any colour ; put in two or three spoonsful of con- somme or stock, make them boil upon the furnace, then put them under a stove, or upon a paillasse; let them cook twenty minutes ; take them up, and let them cool; strain the liquor through gauze, and make a panada with it. Hash the breasts very fine ; put them in a mortar, and pound them with twenty sweet and two bitter almonds; pound all well together, and mix it with a little of the consomme, made of the carcasses of the fowls from which the breasts ■were taken. This is a very delicate white soup. POTAGE A LA SEMOULE. The se- moule is also an Italian paste called semolino, which resembles white poppy seed. Make this pottage as the others, only stirring it a little more, that the semoule may not stick or ball. These are elegant varieties, and may be used in fish or game soups, made exactly in the same way. They may be also coloured green, yellow, or red, with turmeric, saffron, spinach, or beet- root, and, if well done, will be equal to crayfish or tomato sauce. POTASH is found in commerce under two names: the whitest is usually called peaHas/tes; another kind, which is of a darker colour, inclining to dirty red, is called potashes: the last is often considerably more caustic than the first. Both absorb moisture rapidly from the air, so that they cannot long be exposed to it without losing their dry, powdery state. They have a burning, urinous taste. Potash, in its rough state, is prepared by burning wood or other matter till it is reduced to ashes; the ashes are then repeatedly washed with fresh waters till the liquid comes off per- fectly tasteless. The liquids thus obtained are evapoi'ated, and the salt left behind is potash. If this substance be exposed to a red heat many of the materials which are mixed with it are driven off; what remains is much whiter, and, on account of its colour, it is called pearlash. In this state it is deemed sufficiently pure for the ordinary purposes of life, though by no means adapted for the experimental chemist: it is an impure carbonate of potash. Potash is used for innumerable purposes in the arts. From the ease with which it combines with oleous and greasy matters, it is used exten- sively in washing and other purifications of clothing. It combines with all the acids and many other bodies, forming various com- pounds, some of them of the greatest value and use. Various preparations of potash are ordered VOL. II. by the London College. The following are the chief:— Carbonate of Potash. Take of pure sub- carbonate of potash 2 parts; water, 3 parts. Dissolve the salt in the water, and by means of a proper apparatus throw it into a stream of carbonic acid. Filter the solution when it ceases to absorb the acid, and evaporate it by a heat not exceeding 180°, that crystals may form. This is preferable to the common subcarbonate for effervescing draughts, but does not differ from it in its properties as a remedy. Potash with Lime, and Fused Potash, or Infernal Stoke, are both powerful caus- tics, and if taken, even in small doses, inter- nally, destructive poisons. In the application of fused or concrete potash externally as a caustic, to prevent inconvenience from its de- liquescent nature, the skin should be covered with a piece of calico, spread with adhesive plaster, and having a hole in its centre suffi- cient to bear the part only where it is intended to be applied. Solution of Potash. Take of subcarbonate of potash 1 lb.; lime freshly burnt, ^ lb.; boiling distilled water, 1 gallon. Dissolve the subcarbonate of potash in two pints of the water, add the remainder of the water to the lime, mix the hot liquors together, then set the mixture aside in a covered vessel, and when cold let it be strained through a cotton bag. If, on the addition of any diluted acid, effer- vescence be excited, more lime must be added, and the filtration repeated. A pint of this so- lution ought to weigh 16 ozs. It is inodorous, and so caustic that it does not admit of being tasted. It is limpid, dense, and has an oily appearance when agitated. It does not effer- vesce with acids, and feels soapy when rubbed between the fingers, in consequence of its dis- solving the scarf-skin. As a solvent of calculus, both in the kidneys and bladder, this solution has long been celebrated; it acts, however, only on calculi composed of uric acid or urate of ammonia {see Gravel), and its con- tinued use is said to debilitate and otherwise injure the stomach. It has also been used internally in leprosy. The dose may be from 10 drops to I drachm, taken in chicken broth, milk, or almond mixture ; or, in cases of acidity of the stomach, in bitter infusion. Externally it is used, much diluted, in the form of lotion to the joints in rickets and gouty swellings, and in its concentrated state as a caustic to destroy the poison of rabid or venomous animals. Subcarbonate of Potash, commonly called salt of tartar, salt of u'ormivood, or prepared kali. Take of impure potash (pearlashes) reduced to powder, 3 lbs.; boiling water, 3^ pints. Dis- solve the potash in the water, and filter; thea a APOT [ 354 ] POT pour tlie solution into a clean iron pot, and evaporate the water with a gentle heat until the liquor thickens ; lastly, witlidraw the fire, and stir assiduously with an iron or wooden spatula until the salt concretes into small grains. A purer subcarbonate of potash may be pre- pared in a similar manner from tartar, pre- viously burnt till it is of an ash colour. This salt deliquesces in the air, and it must therefore be kept in well-stopped bottles. Its taste is acrid and urinous ; it changes to green the -vegetable blue and red colours, combines with oil and forms soap, and is decomposed by acids with effervescence. Subcarbonate of potash is deobstruent, diuretic, and antacid. Its effects on the kidneys are considerable when aided by plentiful dilution. Its principal use is for the formation of salhie draughts, for which purpose it is given in com- bination with a solution of citric acid, or with recent lemon juice, in the proportion of 1 scruple of the salt to 4 fluid ozs. of lemon juice, in febrile affections: from 1 oz. to '2 ozs. of this mixture may be taken for a dose. When given as an antacid the taste and acrimony of subcarbonate of potash are best covered with milk: its dose for such purpose is from 10 grains to i drachm. Sulphate of Potash is deobstruent and cathartic. It is given with great advantage in the visceral obstructions of children, and, in combination with rhubarb and aloes, in jaun- dice and dyspeptic affections. It is generally given in powder, from its sparing solubility in water. The dose is from 10 grains to 1 drachm, according as it is intended to act as a deobstruent or purge. Tartrate oe Potash is a valuable purga- tive, operating easily and without griping, and even corrects the griping properties in senna and other resinous purgatives. The dose is from 1 drachm to 1 oz., dissolved in water. Water of Supercarbonate of Potash is one of those acidulous waters which are pre- pared in a large way in the metropolis, and so much in fashion. It may be prepared on a small scale by the soda-water apparatus. Two scruples of subcarbonate of potash, dissolved in a pint of water, is about the usual proportion; but a less proportion of the alkali will render the taste of the water more agi'eeable. The more carbonic acid can be combined with it the better. It is scarcely necessai-y to add that it must be kept in a cool place, in bottles, well stopped. It is tonic^ diuretic, and antacid; it is also regarded as lithontriptic, and is bene- ficial in dyspepsia and gout. It forms with lemon juice an effervescing draught, preferable to that prepared with the carbonate. For particulars relative to nitrate of potash, usually called saltpetre, see Nitre. POTATO BALLS. Make mashed potatoes into balls with egg yolks, flour them, fry them in dripping, and drain them, or brown them before the fire. POTATO BISCUITS. Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs with 1 lb. of sifted sugar ; grate the rind of a lemon on a piece of lump sugar, scrape of! the yellow sugar with a knife, and having dried it well, add it to the above, and continue till it becomes quite white. In the meantime whip up an equal number of whites, and mix them lightly with the rest; then sift into it ^ lb. of potato flour, stir it in, and ponr the preparation into paper cases, but not to fill them ; glaze, and place the paper on cases laid on a clean baking tin, and bake in a moderate oven. POTATO BREAD. Dry 2 lbs. of fine flour, and rub it into 1 lb. of warm mealy potatoes; add warm milk and water, with a suSicient quantity of yeast and salt at the proper time ; leave it two hours to I'ise in a warm corner in winter, and bake it in tin shapes, otherwise it will spread, as the dough will rise very light. It makes nice hot rolls for buttering. An excellent tea or bun bread is made from it by adding sugar, eggs, and currants. POTATO CAKES, SMALL. Take 12 ozs. of fine while roasted potato ; pound it with 4 ozs. of butter; add 4 ozs. of sugar, 2 ozs. of sifted flour, two yolks, and a little salt; pound the whole into a perfect paste; dust the table with flour, take the paste from the mortar, and finish as for Potato Biscuits. POTATO CHEESECAKES. Pare and boil thoroughly ^ lb. of the best kind of potatoes. When quite done rub them through a sieve, and mix with them two eggs well beaten, a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a paste, a few currants, a little spice, and grated bread. Lay this on puff paste like other cheesecakes, and bake. POTATO FLOUR : To Make. Wash and brush 15 lbs. of the most flouiy potatoes, and have ready a large panful of water, into which grate the potatoes. When all are done change the water; in three hours' time change it again, and wash the flour twice more ; then drain it on a silk tammy, and put it in the oven to dry. If you want the flour quickly put it in a stew- pan, which set on hot ashes, and sift it before you use it. The above quantity of potatoes will yield 2 lbs. of flour. POTATO-FLOUR SOUFFLfi. Make an infusion of any aromatic article you please ; then take a moderate-sized saucepan, into which put ^ lb. of sifted potato flour, and the same quantity of fresh butter; mix these together till they form a very good paste, and dilute it with nearly all of the infusion; add 1 lb. of powder sugar and aPOT [ ] POT pinch of salt, and set the saucepan on a moderate fire, stirring constantly. The moment it begins to thicken take it off, that it may more readily acquire consistence ; then replace it on the stove, and dry it for a few minutes ; then remove it again, and mix with it the yolks of sixteen eggs, which should reduce it to the consistence of creme patissiere: if not, pour in the infusion which was reserved. Having in the interim whipped the sixteen whites to a strong froth, stir it as lightly as possible into the above ; make the whole quite hot, pour it into a crou- stade, and set it in a moderate oven for an hour or an hour and a half. Serve it the instant it is brought from the oven, either glazed or not, according to your taste. POTATO FRITTERS. Wash and pare some potatoes ; cut them into slices, which soak half an hour in brandy, with the rind of a lemon in it; then drain, dip them in batter, fi-y them of a nice colour, and drain them again ; place the fritters in a dish, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them hot. POTATO JELLY is made of potato flour, only boiling water must be poured upon it; but care must be taken that it be absolutely boiling, or the complete change into jelly will not take i place, it does not take many minutes to thus change a raw potato into this substance, which is not only highly nutritive, but extremely agreeable to the palate when flavoured with a little sugar, nutmeg, and white wine. POTATO PIE. Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices; season them, and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put into your dish alternate layers of meat and potatoes until the dish is filled. POTATO PUDDING. Having thoroughly boiled 2 lbs. of potatoes, peel and pound them \rell, and then mix them with i lb. of melted butter, the same of powder sugar, and six eggs; beat the whole well; then add a handful of flour and a glass of white wine; stir these in, tie in a buttered cloth, and boil it for half an hour. POTATO ROLLS. Take a dozen large potatoes, and roast them in hot ashes. When thoroughly done pare and remove all those parts which may be at all coloured by the heat, and of the remainder weigh | lb., which put into a mortar, with ^ lb. of butter, and beat them together well; then add 4 ozs. of powder sugar, 2 ozs. of sifted flour, the yolks of two eggs, and a grain of salt; pound ail these to- gether to a fine paste, flour a slab, lay the paste on it, and having rolled it out, cut it into four equal parts; divide these again into four bits the size of a walnut, which roll into balls, or any other form you like better; place them on a slightly buttered baking plate, dorez, and bake them in a moderate oven. Let them be of a nice colour, and dry a little that they may be crisp. POTATO SOUFFLfi. Wash and pick 15lbs. of the best floury potatoes, which dilute with a pint of cream and the yolks of four eggs ; add 6 ozs. of sugar, 2 ozs. of butter, and a little shred lemon- peel ; set this mixture on the fire, stirring till it has boiled up several times ; then take it off", and when cold mix in the yolks of six eggs, or more if necessary. Whip six whites of eggs as for biscuits, and stir them lightly in the souffle, which put iuto a silver dish, and finish as usual. POTATO STARCH may be made in as large a quantity, and as good, from frozen potatoes as any other. This starch is friable, heavy, sinking in water, and has shining particles in it. One hundred pounds of potatoes yield 10 lbs. of starch. Prepared and used as arrow- root. POTATO YEAST. Boil some potatoes well, peel and rub them in a mortar, and add as much water as will make it the thickness of a pudding paste ; strain, and when of a proper heat add to every pound 2 ozs. of sugar and two spoonsful of beer yeast. let it ferment twenty-four hours in a warm place. A pound of potatoes will make a quart of yeast: it will keep two or three months. In using this yeast it requires double the quantity of beer yeast, and must be worked into the dough. If there be no dislike to potatoes in bread, which they make light and white, a fourth of the potatoes to the quantity of flour to be used may be prepared, and the yeast added to them some hours before. This makes excellent scones upon the girdle—a ready, nice breakfast bread where lighting an oven would be troublesome. POTATOES: To Bojl. Pare, wash, and throw them into a pan of cold water; then put them on the fire to boil in a clean pot, with sufficient cold water to cover them, and sprinkle over a little salt; let them boil slowly (uncovered) till you can pass a fork through them, pour off the water, and set them where they will keep hot till wanted. When done in this way they are very mealy and dry. Potatoes, either boiled or roasted, should never be covered to keep them hot. POTATOES : To Steam. Potatoes are often spoiled by bad cooking. They are always best steamed, and nothing is more useful for cottagers than a potato steamer, which may be had for three or four shillings. It is only a pan made in two parts : the upper part has holes in the bottom, and fits into the lower part. You put the water in the lower division, and the steam from the broth will dress the potatoes; or, instead of the broth, you may put in a pudding and some water, so that the pudding will beroT POT [ 38-6 ] boiled and tlie potatoes steamed all in one pan, and with one trouble. But, for those who will not use a steamer, the best way to dress potatoes is to pour the water off just when they are done enough, or a few minutes before; sprinkle a little salt upon them, shake them gently over, and set them by the fire for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. POTATOES : To Roast. Scrub and wash exceedingly clean some large potatoes nearly equal in size ; wipe them very dry, and roast them in a Dutch oven before the fire, placing them at a distance from it, and keeping them often turned ; or arrange them in a coarse dish, and bake them in a moderate oven. Dish them neatly in a napkin, and send them very hot to table : serve cold butter with them. One and three quarters to upwards of two hours are required for roasting. POTATOES A LA CREME. Put into a saucepan about 2 ozs. of butter, a dessert- spoonful of flour, parsley, scallious (both sliced small), salt, and pepper ; stir them up together, add a glass of cream, and set it on the fire, stirring till it boils ; then, having cut some boiled potatoes into slices, put them into the above, give them a boil, and serve hot. POTATOES, FRANGIPANE OF. Take some steamed potatoes (let them be thoroughly done); pare and pound them carefully; then put them into a basin ; add some whole eggs, a little butter, the rind of a lemon grated, some bitter almonds crushed, a small quantity of sugar, and a grain of salt. Mix these together well, and use this frangipane according to the usual directions. POTATOES, GATEAU OF. Pare some steamed or well-boiled, dry potatoes, and pound them in a mortar, adding butter and milk in which sugar has been dissolved. When the pota- toes are well beaten and mixed set the paste on the fire, boil it, and pour it into a basin to cool; then put to it the yolks of eight eggs, a suffi- cient quantity of sugar, the whites of four eggs beaten to a snow, and two spoonsful of orange- flower water. Take a saucepan, butter the inside well, sprinkle the sides over with bread crumbs, and pour in the above preparation; set it on the stove with hot ashes on the lid, and let it remain till done and nicely coloured, when it may be turned out on a dish. POTATOES AU MAITRE D'HOTEL. Having boiled your potatoes as usual, pare and cut them in slices, which put into a stewpan, with a good piece of butter, shred parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper; set them on the fire a short time, and then fry them lightly in a little butter and sweet herbs: if you find the butter oils, pour in a spoonful of water. Serve with a little lemon juice. POTATOES, MASHED. Boil tbem till perfectly tender quite through, pour off the water, and steam them very dry ; peel them quickly, take out every speck, and while they are still hot press the potatoes through an earthen cullender, or bruise them to a smooth mash with a strong wooden fork or spoon, but never pound them in a mortar, as that will reduce them to a close, heavy paste. Let them be entirely free from lumps, for nothing can be more indicative of carelessness or want of skill on the part of the cook than mashed potatoes sent to the table full of lumps. Melt in a clean saucepan a slice of good butter with a spoonful of milk, or, better still, of cream; put in the potatoes after having sprinkled some fine salt upon them, and stir the whole over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until the ingredients are well mixed, and the whole is very hot. It may be served directly, or heaped high in a dish, left rough on the surface, and browned before the fire; or it may be pressed into a well-buttered mould of handsome form, which has been strewed with the finest bread crumbs, and shaken free of the loose ones, then turned out, and browned in an oven. More or less liquid will be required for potatoes of different kinds. For 2 lbs. of potatoes add one tea-spoonful of salt, 1 oz. of butter, and a quarter of a pint of milk or sweet cream. POTATOES, NEW: To Boil. These are never good unless freshly dug. Take them of equal size, and rub off the skins with a brush or a very coarse cloth; wash them clean, and put them, without salt, into boiling, or at least quite hot water; boil softly, and when they are tender enough to serve pour off the water entirely ; strew some fine salt over the potatoes, give them a shake, and let them stand by the fire in a saucepan for a minute ; then dish and serve them immediately. Some cooks throw in a slice of fresh butter with the salt, and toss them gently in it till it is dissolved. This is a good mode ; but the more usual one is to send melted butter to the table with them, or pour white sauce over them when they are very young, and served early in the season, as a side or corner dish. Very small new potatoes are boiled in ten to fifteen minutes ; moderate sized in from fifteen to twenty minutes. POTATOES A LA PROVENQALE. Put into a saucepan' about 2 ozs. of butter cut into several pieces, three dessert-spoonsful of oil, half the peel of a lemon, parsley and scallions (both shred small), grated nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of flour, salt, and whole pepper. Throw some potatoes into boiling water, and in a few minutes take them out; pare and cut them into four or six pieces according to their size, and.POT POT [ 357 ] put these pieces into the hutter, &c.; set the saucepan on the fire, stirring them constantl}', and talcing care not to let them hoil. Serve with a little lemon juice squeezed over. POTATOES, PUREE OF. Steam some potatoes thoroughly, and having pared them, put them into a mortar, and pound them as fine as possible, moistening them with a good stock; rub them through a sieve into a sauce- pan, and dilute the puree with more stock ; set it on the fire, and stir it till it is of the requisite consistence, which should be that of thick cream. Serve the puree with fried bread round, and brown with the salamander. POTATOES, QUENELLES OF. Put some of the best kind of potatoes into hot ashes to roast. When done take out all the floury- parts, which put into a mortar, pound well, and rub through a sieve , take half the quantity of butter, and beat it in the mortar with the potato flour till it becomes a very fine paste ; then mix it with parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, the yolks of five or six eggs, and the whites of two or three well whipped. Make your quenelles, and poach them as directed. [See Quenelles.) Drain them, place them in a dish, and pour over them an Espagnole travaillee, tomato, Portuguese, or any other sauce you may prefer. POTTAGE OF GAME. Having prepared stock, civet, or salmis, take what quantity of partridges, snipes, ducklings, or any other young birds is necessary for the size of the dish ; half roast them, and cut out the breasts, leaving the other parts whole. Make a farce with part of the breasts, sweetbreads, marrow, or butter' season it properly. If game, add a very little thyme and a clove of garlic: almonds may be added to either. Rub the inside of the birds with yolks of eggs, and fill them with the farce : the skin may be kept attached to one side, to be tacked over, that they may be larded, or, if without the skin, rubbed with the yolk of an egg. Put them into a Dutch or slack oven. Beat ^ lb. of almonds with the reserved part of the breasts and a sweetbread or two, or any white meat; rub it through a tammy with a little stock, and set it aside to finish with. Rub celery, spinach, sorrel, endive, or onions cooked brown in butter, and stewed in stock; put these to the prepared soup, season it well, and have ready farce balls, nicely cut potatoes, and a diced sweetbread or tongue ; add these also, that they may taste of the soup, and put into the tureen slices of light bread , pour the soup over them, and Jay in the birds, sticking them thickly over slantwise with sliced almonds. If they have not been larded make the reserved farce, of the consistence of a sauce, hot in a pan with a spout^ and; pour it all. over in rings; or it may be previously mixed with the soup. This pottage may be served separately from the bi'-ds, in which case a little of the soup must be thickened, and the birds served upon it. This is not at all an expensive pottage, as it may be made of any small and left birds, without the almonds or sweetbreads, instead of which a little nice bacon may be added. An excellent farce for this dish may be made of veal, lamb, pig, or hare lights, to which add a few almonds, a little garlic, truffle, or oyster powder. POTTED MEATS. Though potted meats come within the more especial department of cookeiy, we think it may be more convenient to have, in a separate form, directions for preparing potted meats commonly in use among us, and also anchovy and herring pastes. To men who are sometimes obliged to be absent on business at the hour of the family meal, and cannot control the period of returning home, potted meats are a most convenient preparation, as they imme- diately supply something relishing and digestive when fatigue and anxiety have palled the healthy appetite. The art of potting is very easy; but, like every other culinary prepai'ation, it requires liberality. The first and most important thing to have is good clarified butter, as with common butter nothing would keep good. Clarified butter ought always to be used in cookery in preference to any other. We have already given (vol. ii. p. 2.), in one of our cookery articles, directions for clarifying butter ; but as we have another form, and it is required for potting, it may claim a place here. Clarified butter. Butter properly clarified will keep a considerable time if put into suitable vessels, and closely stopped. Put 10 lbs. of freshly made butter into a well-tinned stewpan, and place it over the fire. When the butter is melted skim it well as the scum rises, and throw into it a little bit of peeled onion, say a quarter of an onion of a moderate size. Let the butter boil five minutes, and no longer, during which time it must be completely shimmed. Take it suddenly from the fire, and. pour it boiling into a stone jar that will just hp^d it, taking care to keep back any milk or other sediment that may have separated from it, and will always remain at the bottom of the stewpan. Before it has become solid stir in with a wooden spoon a little bay salt to preserve it good, and some grains of black pepper. When any of this butter is, required for use it must be scooped out with a wooden spoon, and never touched with metal. There is, also a mode of sweetening rancid butter by clarifying it, which is veiy curious. Melt and skim, tjie ljutter as. for cferifying; take it off thePOT [ 358 ] PO W fire ; then have ready a large piece of bread ■well toasted on both sides, and put it into the butter, stirring it well, and passing it with a toasting-fork over the inner surface of the bottom of the vessel. In less than five minutes the bread may be taken out, when the butter \yill be quite sweet, but the bread will be fetid. It appears that the rancidity in butter proceeds from the decomposition of the milk and other substances remaining in it, which are absorbed by the bread. In preparing potted meats you should have no clarified butter ready: you can prepare some at once by putting the butter into a butter-boat, • placing this vessel in a stewpan of boiling water, and pouring the butter, when melted, from the milk, which sinks to the bottom. Clarified butter, in potting, must always be hot and in a liquid state, unless the contrary is specified. POTTERY. See Earihenwakk. POULTICE. Cataplasm.) Mrs. Parkes gives these good directions for applying them :—• Poultices are intended to assist the suppura- tion of inflammatory tumours which cannot be put back; and they are used, too, for softening the lips of ulcers tliat have been hardened by a thick and acrid discharge. They therefore require to be large, soft, hot, and frequently renewed. Some poultices are made by boiling together crumbs of bread and milk or water, and adding a small quantity of oil or lard. Others are made by simply mixing a quantity of linseed meal with as much boiling water as will make it into a moderately thick paste. For the sake of cleanliness a piece of thin gauze should be placed between the poultice and the part to which it is to be applied, provided the part affected be not ulcerated. A poultice should not be so thin as to run or spread, nor so thick as to become soon dry and hard. When a poultice is intended to promote suppuration it should be renewed as soon as it gets cool. POULTICE, CHARCOAL. Charcoal re- cently ignited and cooled in a close vessel, mixed with simple poultice. In fetid and gangrenous sores, frequently renewed. POULTICE, HEMLOCK. E.nract of hem- lock, 2 ozs.: water, 1 pint. Dissolve, and thicken with linseed meal. In painful nipples, cancer, glandular tumours, irritable sores, &c. POULTICE, MUSTARD. Equal parts of flour of mustard and linseed meal, made into a poultice with hot vinegar. As a powerful counter-irritant, stimulant, and rubefacient in low fevers, &c. It should not be left o^ long enough to raise a blister. POULTRY, TIMBALE OY. Prepare, bone, and cut up two chickens or rabbits; dab them in bacon, and season with minced parsley, seal- lions, shallots, mushrooms or truffles, spices. pepper, and salt. Put the ingredients into a stewpan with butter, and harden the meat white in it; moisten with a glass of white wine and two large spoonsful of Espagnole or good stock, and let them simmer till done enougli; then set them to cool. Butler a mould of sufficient size, and line it with rolled paste, beginumg at the middle of the bottom, and continuing to go round till it comes to the top. The rolls of paste must lie firmly over each other. Have ready a piece of thin paste to lay in the bottom , make it an inch larger, that it may come up the sides till they nearly reach the top ; put in the meat, with the seasoning, and cover it, wetting and fixing it firmly. Dress it round the edge. When ready to dish cut it neatly open at the top, and put in a nice sauce of reduced Espagnole, or cover it with a sweetbread or mushroom ragout. POUNCE. Finely powdered cuttle-fish bone used to be much used for drying writing ink quickly. To facilitate writing on parchment this is rubbed with powdered gum juniper. For liquid pounce see Ink, Indelible. POUPELIN. Put into a saucepan four glasses of water, \ lb. of butter, the zest of a lemon, and a pinch of fine salt; set it on the fire, and as soon as it begins to boil take it off, and put in as much sifted flour as will make a paste of the consistence of choux; then replace it on the fire, and keep stirring till it dries. Make a similar mixture, and when that is also dry put both into a mortar, with | lb. of powder sugar, I oz. of orange flowers, and two eggs at a time until five-and-twenty or thirty are used, by which time the paste will be of the proper con- sistence ; then pour it into a lightly buttered tin, put it into a moderate oven, and leave it. In three hours' time, if the poupelin is of a nice gold colour, take it out, cut off the top, and with a spoon remove all the inside; then set it in the oven to dry. When cold spread all over the interior apricot marmalade, on which strew sweet macaroons crushed; then turn it on a dish and serve.. POWDERS. This is one of the most simple forms in which medicine can be administered. Many medicinal substances, however, cannot be reduced into powder, and others are too dis- agreeable to be taken in this form. The lighter powders may be mixed in any agreeable thin liquor, as tea or water gruel. The more pon- derous will require a more consistent vehicle, as syrup, conserve, jelly, or honey. Gums, and other substances which are difficult to powder, should be pounded along with the drier ones; but those which are too dry, especially aromatics, ought to be sprinkled during their pulverisation with a few drops of any proper water. Ai'oniatic powders are to be prepared only in small quan-[ 359 ] PQ W POX titles at a time, and kept in glass vessels closely Stopped. Indeed, no powders ought to be ex- posed to the air, or kept too long, otherwise their virtues will be in great measure destroyed. Aeomatic Opening Powder. Take the best Turkey rhubarb, cinnamon, and fine sugar, each 2 drachms. Let the ingredients be poimded, and afterwards mixed well together. When flatulency is accompanied with costive- ness a tea-spoonful of this powder may be taken once or twice a day, according to circumstances. Astringent Powder. Take of alum and Japan earth, each 2 drachms. Pound them together, and divide the whole into ten or twelve doses. In immoderate female and other he- morrhages one of these powders may be taken every hour, or every half-hour if the discharge be violent. Carminative Powder. Take of coriander seed i oz.; ginger, 1 drachm; nutmegs, ^ drachm ; fine sugar, H drachm. Reduce them into powder for twelve doses. This powder is employed for expelling flatulencies arising from indigestion, particularly those to which hysteric and hypochondriac persons are so liable. It may likewise be given in small quantities to children in their food when troubled with gripes. Diuretic Powder. Take of gum arable 4 ozs.; purified nitre, 1 oz. Pound them together, and divide the whole into twenty-four doses. Powder of Bole. Take of bole armeniac, or French bole, 2 ozs.; cinnamon, ] oz.; tor- mentil root and gum arable, of each 6 drachms; long pepper, 1 drachm. Let all these ingre- dients be reduced into a powder. This warm, glutinous, astringent powder is given in fluxes, and other disorders where medicines of that class are necessary, in the dose of 1 scruple or ■| drachm. If 1 drachm of opium be added it will make the powder of bole with opium, which is a medicine of considerable efficacy. It may be taken in the same quantity as tl^e forrner, but not above twice or thrice a day. Powder for the Tape Worm. Early in the morning the patient is to take in any liquid 3 or 3 drachms, according to his age and consti- tution, of the root of the male fern reduced into a fine powder. About two hours afterwards he is to take of calomel and resin of scammony, each 10 grains ; gum gamboge, 6 grains. These ingredients must be finely powdered, and given in a little syrup, honey, treacle, or anything that is most agreeable to the patient. He is then to walk geijtly about, now and thpn drinking a dish of weak green tea, till the worm is passed. If the powder of the fern produces nausea or sickness jt may be removed by sucking the juice of an orange or lemon. This medicine, which had beer; long kept a secret abroad for the cure of the tape worm, was purchased by the French king, Louis XVI., and made public for the benefit of mankind. The dose here prescribed is sufficient for the strongest patient; it must, therefore, be reduced according to the age and constitution. Saline Laxative Powder, Take of soluble tartar and cream of tartar, each 1 drachm ; pu- rified nitre, ^ drachm. Make them into a powder. In fevers, and other inflammatory disorders where it is necessary to keep the body gently open, one of these cooling laxative powders may be taken in a little gruel, and repeate'd occasionally. Steel Powder. Take filings of steel and loaf sugar, of each 2 ozs.; ginger, 2 drachms. Pound them together. In female obstructions, and other cases where steel is proper, a tea- spoonful of this powder may be taken twice a day, and washed down with a little wine and water. Sudorific Powder, Take purified nitre and vitriolated tartar, of each | oz.; opium and ipecacuanha, of each 1 drachm. Mix the in- gredients, and reduce them to a fine powder. This is generally known by the name of Dover's powder. It is a powerful sudorific. In obsti- nate rheumatisms, and other cases where it is necessary to excite a copious sweat, this powder may be administered in the dose of 1 scruple or •J- drachm. Some patients will require 2 scruples. It ought to be accompanied with the plentiful use of some warm diluting liquor. Worm Powder, Take of tin reduced into a fine powder, 1 oz.; ^thiops mineral, 2 drachms. Mix them well together, and divide the whole into six doses. One of these powders may be taken in a little syrup, honey, or treacle, twice a day. After they have been all used the following anthelmintic purge may be proper :— Take powdered rhubarb, 1 scruple; scammony and calomel, of each 5 grains. Bub them to- gether in a mortaj" for one dose. For children, however, these doses must be lessened according to their age. If the powder of tin be given alone its dose may be considerably increased. Given to the amount of 2 ozs. in three days, it proves an egregious anthelmintic. Let the patient be purged both before taking the powder and afterwards. POX, COW. See Cow Pox. pox, SMALL. Sym.ptoms. This disease is so generally known that a minute description of it is unnecessary. Children commonly look a little dull, and seem listless and drowsy for a few days before the more violent symptoms of the small pox appear. They are likewise more inclined to drink than usual, have little appetite for solid food, complain of weariness, and upon[ 3G0 ] POX POX taking exercise are apt to perspire. These symptoms are succeeded by slight fits of cold and heat in turns, which, as the time of the eruption approaches, become more violent, and are accompanied with pains of the head and loins, vomiting, &c. The pulse is quick, with a great heat of the skin and restlessness. When the patient drops asleep he wakes in a kind of horror with a sudden start, which is a very common symptom of the approaching eruption, as are also convulsion fits in veiy young children. About the third or fourth day from the time of sickening the pustules, or pimples, generally begin to appear; sometimes, indeed, they appear sooner, but that is no favourable symptom. At first they very nearly resemble flea-bites, and are soonest discovered on the face, arms, and breast. The most favourable symptoms are a slow eruption, and an abatement of the fever as soon as the pustules appear. In a mild, distinct kind of small pox the pustules seldom appear before the fourth day from the time of sick- ening, and they generally keep coming out gradually for several days after. Pustules which are distinct, with a florid red basis, and which fill with thick purulent matter, first of a whitish, and afterwards of a yellowish colour, are the best. A livid brown colour of the pustules is an unfavourable symptom, as also when they are email and flat, with black specks in the middle. Pustules which contain a thin watery ichor are s^ery bad. A great number of pustules on th« face is always attended with danger. It is likewise a bad sign when they run into one another. It is a inos;t unfavourable symptom when petechia, or purple, brown, or black spots, are interspersed among the pustules. These are signs of a putrid dissolution of the blood, and show the danger to he very great. Bloody stools or urine, with a swelled belly, are bad symptoms, as is also a continual strangury. Pale urine and a violent throbbing of the arteries ,of the neck are signs of an approaching delirium., or of convulsion fits. When the face does not swell, or falls before tlie pustules come to maturity, it is very unfavourable. If the face begins to fall about the eleventh or twelfth day, find at the same time the hands and feet begin to swell, the patient generally does well; but when these do not succeed each other there is reason to apprehend danger. When the tongue is .covered with a brown crust it is ai> ynfavoujable symptom. Cold shivering fits coming ,on at the height of the disease are likevwse ainfavourable. Grinding of the teeth, Hvhen it pjoGeeds from an affection of the ffiervous system, is a bad sign; but sometimes it is occasioned by worms or a disordered stomach. Diet. When the first symptoms of the small pox appear, people are ready to be alarmed, and often fly to the use of medicines, to the great danger of the patient's life. We have known children, to appease the anxiety of their parents, bled, blistered, and purged, during the fever which preceded the eruption of the small pox, to such a degree that nature was not only disturbed in her operation, but rendered unable to support the pustules after they were out, so that the patient, exhausted by mere evacua- tions, sank under the disease. When convulsions appear they give a dreadful alarm. Immediately some nostrum is applied, as if this were a primary disease ; whereas it is only a symptom, and far from being an unfavourable one, of the approaching eruption. As the fits generally go off before the actual appearance of the small pox, it is attributed to the medicine, which by this means acquires a reputation without any merit. Convulsion fits are, no doubt, very alarming; but their effects are often salutary. They seem to be one of the means made use of by nature for breaking the force of a fever. We have always observed a fever abated, and sometimes quite removed, after one or more convulsion fits. This readily accounts for convulsions being a favour- able symptom in the fever which precedes the eruption of the small pox, as everything that mitigates this fever lessens the eruption. All that is, generally speaking, necessary during the eruptive fever is to keep the patient cool and easy, allowing him to drink freely of some weak diluting liquors, as balm tea, barley water, clear whey, gruels, &c. He should not be confined to bed, but should sit up as much as he is able, and should have his feet and legs frequently bathed in lukewarm water. His food ought to be very light, and he should be as little disturbed with company as possible. Much mischief is done at this period by con- fining the patient too soon to his bed, and plying him with warm cordials or sudorific medicines. Everything that heats and inflames the blood increases the fever, and pushes out the pustules prematurely. This has numberless ill effects. It not only increases the number of pustules, but likewise tends to make them run into one another; and, when they have been pushed out with too great violence, they gene- rally fall in before they come to maturity. The good women, as soon as they see the small pox begin to appear, commonly ply their tender .charge with cordials, saffron, and mari- gold teas, wine, punch, and even brandy itself. All these are given with a view, as they term it, to throw out the eruption from the heart. This,POX POX [ 361 ] like most other popular mistakes, is the abuse of a very just observation—that when there is a moisture on the skin the pustules rise better, and the patient is easier than when it continues dry and parched; but that is no reason for forcing the patient into a sweat. Sweating never relieves unless where it comes spontaneously, or is the effect of drinking weak diluting liquors. The patient ought to have no more covering in bed than is necessary to prevent his catching cold, and should be frequently taken up to keep him cool, and prevent too great a flux of blood towards the head. Children are often so peevish that they will not lie in bed without a nurse constantly by them. Indulging them in this, we have reason to believe, has many bad effects both upon the nurse and the child. Even the natural heat of the nurse cannot fail to augment the fever of the child ; but if she too proves feverish, which is often the case, the danger must be increased. Putting several children who have the small pox in the same bed has many ill consequences. They ought, if possible, never to be in the same chamber, as the perspiration, the heat, smell, &c., all tend to augment the fever, and to heighten the disease. It is common among the poor to see two or three children lying in the same bed, with such a load of pustules that even their skins stick together. One can hardly view a scene of this kind without being sickened by the sight; but how must the effluvia affect the poor patients, many of whom perish by this usage. A very dirty custom prevails among the lower class of people of allowing children it) the small pox to keep on the same linen during the whole period of that loathsome disease. This is done lest they should catch cold ; but it has many ill consequences. The linen be- comes hard by the moisture which it absorbs, and frets the tender skin. It likewise occasions a bad smell, which is very pernicious both to the patient and those about him. Besides, the filth and sordes which adhere to the linen being resorbed, or taken up again into the body, greatly augment the disease. A patient should not be suffered to be dirty in an internal disease, far less in the small pox. Cutaneous disorders are often occasioned by nastiness alone, and are always increased by it. Were the patient's linen to be changed every day it would greatly refresh him. Care, indeed, is to be taken that the linen be thoroughly dry. It ought likewise to be put on when the patient is most cool. So strong is the vulgar prejudice in this country, notwithstanding all that has been said against the hot regimen in the small pox, that numbers still fall a sacrifice to that eiTor. We have seen poor women travelling in the depth of winter, and carrying their children along with them in the small pox, and have frequently observed others begging by the wayside, with infants in their arms covered with the pustules; yet we could never learn that one of these children died by this sort of treatment. This is certainly a sufficient proof of the safety, at least, of exposing patients in the small pox to the open air. There can be no reason, however, for exposing them to public view. It is now very common, in the environs of great towns, to meet patients in the small pox on the public walks. This practice, how- ever well it may suit the purposes of boasting inoculators, is dangerous to the citizens, and contrary to the laws of humanity and sound policy. The food in this disease ought to be very light, and of a cooling nature, as panada, or bread boiled with equal quantities of milk and water, good apples roasted, or boiled with milk, and sweetened with a little sugar, or such-like. The drink may be equal parts of milk and water, clear sweet whey, barley water, or thin gruel, &c. After the pustules are full, butter- milk, being of an opening and cleansing nature, is a very proper drink. Medicine. This disease is generally divided into four different periods, viz., the fever which precedes the eruption, the eruption itself, the suppuration or maturation of the pustules, and the secondary fever. It has already been observed that little morg is necessary, during the primary fever, than to keep the patient cool and quiet, allowing him to drink diluting liquors, and bathing his feet frequently in warm water. Though this be generally the safest course that can be taken with infants, yet adults of a strong constitution and plethoric habit sometimes require bleed- ing. When a full pulse, a dry skin, and othei: symptoms of inflammation render this operation necessary, it ought to be performed ; but, unless these symptoms are urgent, it is safer to let it alone. If the body is bound emollient clyster^ may be thrown in. If there is a great nausea, or inclination tq vomit, weak camomile tea or lukewarm water may be drunk, in order to cleanse the stomach. At the beginning of a fever nature generally attempts a discharge either upwards or down-, wards, which, if promoted by gentle means, would tend greatly to abate the violenQe of the disease. Though every method is to.b? taken during the primary fever, by a cool regi,men, S(c., to prevent too great an eruption, yet, after the pustules have made their appearance, our b^si-, ness is to promote the suppuration by diluting[ 362 ] POX POX drink, light food, and, if nature seems to flag, by generous cordials. When a low, creeping jiulse, faintisbness, and great loss of strength render cordials necessary, we would recommend good wine, which may be made into negus with an equal quantity of water, and sharpened with the juice of an orange, the jelly of currants, or the like. Wine whey, sharpened as above, is likewise a proper drink in this case. Great care, however, must be taken not to overheat the patient by any of these things. This, instead of promoting, would retard the eruption. The rising of the small pox is often prevented by the violence of the fever: in this case the cool regimen is strictly to be observed. The patient's chamber must not only be kept cool, but he ought likewise frequently to be taken out of bed, and to be lightly covered with clothes while in it. Excessive restlessness often prevents the rising and filling of the small pox. When this happens gentle opiates are necessary. These, however, ought always to be administered with a sparing hand. To an infant a tea-spoonful of the syrup of poppies may be given every five or six hours till it has the desired effect. An adult will I'equire a table-spoonful in order to answer the same purpose. If the patient be troubled with a strangury, or suppression of urine, which often happens in the small pox, he should be frequently taken out of bed, and, if he be able, should walk across the room with his feet bare. When he cannot do this he may be frequently set on his knees in bed, and should endeavour to pass his urine as often as he can. Wheij these means do not succeed, a tea-spoonful of the sweet spirits of nitre may be occasionally mixed with his drink. Nothing more certainly j'elieves the patient, or is more beneficial in the small pox, than a plentiful discharge of urine. If the mouth be foul, and the tongue dry and chapped, it ought frequently to be washed, and the throat gargled with water and honey, sharp- ened with a little yinegar or currant jelly. During the rising of the small pox it fre- quently happens that the patient is eight or ten days without a stool. This not only tends to heat and inflame the blood, but the feces, by lodging so long in the body, become acrid, and even putrid, from whence bad consequences must ensue, It will therefore be proper, when the body is bound, to throw in an emollient clyster every second or third day through the whole course of the disease. This will greatly cool and relieve the patient. When petechise (purple, black, or livid spots) appear aniong the small pox, the Peruvian bark must immediately be administered in as large doses as the patient's stomach can bear. For a child 2 drachms of bark in powder may be mixed in 3 ozs. of common water, 1 oz. of simple cinnamon water, and 2 ozs. of the syrup of orange or lemon. This may be sharpened with the spirit of vitriol, and a table-spoonful of it given eveiy hour. If it be given to an adult in the same form, he may take at least three or four spoonsful every hour. This medicine ought not to be trifled with, but must be administered as frequently as the stomach can bear it, in which case it will often produce very happy effects. We have frequently seen the petechiee disappear, and the small pox, which had a very- threatening aspect, rise and fill with laudable matter, by the use of the bark and acids. The patient's drink ought likewise, in this case, to be generous, as wine or strong negus, acidulated with spirits of vitriol, vinegar, the juice of lemon, jelly of currants, or such-like. His food must consist of apples, roasted or boiled, preserved cherries, plums, and other fruits of an acid nature. The bark and acids are not only necessary when the petechiaB, or putrid symptoms, appear, but likewise in the lymphatic or crystalline small pox, where the matter is thin, and not duly prepared. The Peruvian bark seems to possess a singular power of assisting nature in preparing laudable pus, or what is called good matter; consequently, it must be beneficial both in this and other diseases, where the crisis depends on a suppuration. We have often observed where the small pox were flat, and the matter contained in them quite clear and trans- parent, and where at first they had the appear- ance of running into one another, that the Peruvian bark, acidulated as above, changed the colour and consistence of the matter, and pro- duced the most happy effects. When the eniption subsides suddenly, or, as the good women term it, when the small pox strike in, before they have arrived at maturity, the danger is very great. In this case blistering plasters must be immediately applied to the wrists and ankles, and the patient's spirits sup- ported with cordials. Sometimes bleeding has a surprising effect in raising the pustules after they have subsided; but it requires sluU to know when this is proper, or to what length the patient caii bear it. Sharp cataplasms, however, may be applied to the feet and hands, as they tend to promote the swelling of these parts, and by that means to draw the humours towards the extremities, The most dangerous period of this disease is what we call the secondary fever. This generally comes on when the small pox begin to blacken or turn on the face; and most of those who die of the small pox are carried off by this fever. Nature generally attempts, at the turn of thePRA POX [ 363 ] small pox, to relieve the patient by loose stools. Her endeavours this way are by no means to be counteracted, but promoted, and the patient, at the same time, supported by food and drink of a nourishing and cordial nature. If, at the approach of the secondary fever, the pulse be very quick, hard, and strong, the heat intense, and the breathing laborious, with other sym[)toms of an inflammation of the brefst, the patient must immediately be bled. The quantity of blood to be let must be regulated by the patient's strength, age, and the urgency of the symptoms. But in the secondary fever, if the patient be faintish, the pustules become suddenly pale, and if there be great coldness of the extremities, blistering plasters must be applied, and the patient must be supported with generous cor- dials. Wine, and even spirits have sometimes been given in such cases with amazing success. As the secondary fever is, in great measure, if not wholly, owing to the absorption of the matter, it would seem highly consonant to reason that the pustules, as soon as they come to maturity, should be opened. This is every day practised in other phlegmons which tend to suppuration; and there seems to be no cause why it should be less proper here. On the con- trary, we have reason to believe that by this means the secondary fever might always be lessened, and often wholly prevented. The pustules should be opened when they begin to turn of a yellow colour. Very little art is necessary for this operation. They may either be opened with a lancet or a needle, and the matter absorbed by a little dry lint. As the pustules are generally first ripe on the face, it ■will be proper to begin with opening these, and the others, of course, as they become ripe. The pustules generally fill again a second, or even a third time, for which cause the operation must be repeated, or rather continued, as long as there is any considjerable appearance of matter in the pustules. / We have reason to believe that this operation, rational as it is, has been neglected from a piece of mistaken tenderness in parents. They believe that it must give great pain to the poor child, and therefore would rather see it die than have it thus tortured. This notion, however, is en- tirely without foundation ; but supposing it were attended with a little pain, that is nothing in comparison to the advantages which may arise from it. Opening the pustules not only prevents the resorption of the matter into the blood, but like- wise takes off the tension of the skin, and by that means greatly relieves the patient. It like wise tends to prevent the pitting, which is a matter of no small importance. Acrid matter. by lodging long in the pustules, cannot fail to cori'ode the tender skin, by which many a hand- some face becomes so deformed as hardly to bear a resemblance to the human figure. Though this operation can never do harm, yet it is only necessary when the patient has a great load of small pox, or when the matter which they con- tain is of so thin and acrid a nature that there is reason to apprehend bad consequences from its being too quickly resorbed, or taken up again into the mass of circulating humours. It is generally necessary, after the small pox are gone off, to purge the patient. If, however, the body has been open through the whole course of the disease, or if buttermilk and other things of an opening nature have been drunk freely, after the height of the small pox purging becomes less necessary; but it ought never wholly to be neglected. For very young children an infusion of senna and prunes, with a little rhubarb, may be sweetened with coarse sugar, and given in small quantities till it operates. Those who are farther advanced must take medicines of a sharper nature. For example, a child of five or six years of age may take 8 or 10 grains of fine rhubarb in powder overnight, and the same quantity of jalap in powder next morning. This may be wrought off with fresh broth or water gruel, and may be repeated three or four times, five or six days intervening between each dose. For children further advanced, and adults, the dose must be inc; ease4 in proportion to the age and constitution. When imposthumes happen after the small pox, which is not seldom the case, they must be brought to suppuration as soon as possible by means of ripening poultices; and when they have been opened, or haye broke of their own. accord, the patient must be purged. The Peru- vian bark and a milk diet will likewise be useful in this case. When a cough or a difficulty of breathing succeeds to the small pox, consumption must be guarded against. See Gonsdmption, PRADIER'S CATAPLASM. For thi^ remedy for the gout the Emperor Ifapoleon I, is said to have paid a very large sum. It is made as follows :—Dissolve 6 drachms of balm of Mecca in 16ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. Digest for forty-eight hours 1 oz. of red Cinchona bark, J oz. of sarsaparilla, 1 oz. of sage leaves, and I! oz. of saffron in 32 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. Filter, and then mix the two liquors, adding afterwards twice their weight of lime water. Sprinkle 2 fluid ozs. of this mixture on the surface of a linseed- meal poultice, and surround with it the part affected. PRAWNS. When in perfection they have aoPR A [ 864 ] PRE excellent smell, and their flavour is extremely sweet; they are firm and stiff, the tails (which turn inward) particularly. "When the prawns are fresh their colour is very bright; but if stale they are pale, and clammy to the touch. PRAWNS : To Serve. Take li lb. of fine prawns ; pick and trim them neatly ; have ready a deep dish or soup plate, the centre of which fill with any kind of salading you please, pro- vided it has no smell; cover tliis with a large napkin folded square, and the corners turned down so as to form an octagon, leaving no more than the border of the plate or dish visible. Place a handful of nice green parsley on a napkin, and the prawns in a pyramid on ic. PRAWNS . To Stew. Pick out the tails of two quarts of prawns, put the bodies into a stewpan, with a little mace, about a pint of white wine, or water and vinegar ; stew the VFhole for a quarter of an hour, stir them well, and strain off the liquor Next wash out the pan, and put in the strained liquor, together with the tails ; grate therein a small nutmeg, add a little salt, 4 ozs. of butter rolled in flour, and shake the whole thoroughly. Cut thin a large slice of bread, toast it brown, divide it into six pieces, lay them close together at the bottom of the dish, pour the fish and sauce over them, and serve hot. Crayfish, if thus cooked, should he garnished with some of the large claws laid round thickly. PRAWNS, BUTTERED. Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of flour and butter, a very little nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets, or with a cream sauce instead of brown. PRAWNS IN JELLY. Make a savoury fish jelly, and put some into the bottom of a small deep dish. When it is cold lay in the prawns, with their backs downwai'ds, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. PRAWNS, SOUP OF. Prepare the soup in the way directed above for stewing prawns. If the shrimps are bought by measure, each quart of soup will require at least a pint. Pick out the tails, reduce the shells and bodies, ^ud simmer them in the soup, or the water the soup is to be made of; pound them with an equal qu£intity of panada, rub them through a tammy, and mix them by degrees into the soup ; add anchovy or mushroom catsup, and verjuice or lemon juice. If it is still not thick enough put in a little butter and flour. When it is well cooked draw it to the side of the fire, and put ill the shrimps, sweetbreads, sliced mush- room, lobster sp^i,wn, &c. It is excellent made simply of the shrimps. This soup is elegant partly thickened with tomatoes; and in that case turbot roe, Italian paste, or vermicelli, looks beautiful in it. PRESERVING. The art of fabricating preserves, fruit jellies, and such confections as may be made in a private family, is an under- taking of a more kindly and grateful nature than pickling with vinegar. The handling of sugar is not attended with the same risk of forming dangerous metallic oxides, that is in- separable from the use of vinegar in metal vessels. Nevertheless, in elaborating those confections which require the juice of fruit, both copper and brass are to be avoided. These two metals, untinned, are most in use for pre- serving-pans; the former among those who manufacture for sale, the latter in private families. Both, however, ought to be tinned; for although the fresh juice of ripe fi'uit doea not act so strongly upon the copper as vinegar would do, sufficient of the metal is taken up by the acid to create injury. Even in making common syrup there is an action upon the copper, of which persons in general are not aware. We shall endeavour to explain it; for, although it cannot possibly occur to any extent during the short time occupied in boiling syrup, still it might if dissolved sugar were left stand- ing any time in the vessel. Besides, it serves to strengthen our injunctions against the use of naked copper, which we hope to see banished from all well-regulated houses. Sugar consists of mucilage, alcohol, or spirit, and oxalic acid, the latter being its real base, and giving it its flavour. This substance for- merly bore the name of "salt of sugar." Every educated person, however, knows what oxalic acid is, howf closely in appearance it resembles Epsom salt, and how often it has been taken instead, and with fatal effect. No\y, when sugar is dissolved in water, it is evident that the water holds in solution a certain quantity of oxalic acid; it is also evident that, as all acids act more or less upon copper by corroding it, which means dissolving a part of it, and so forming an oxide, the oxalic acid so acts-^a fact which makes it very clear to our comprehension that syrup boiled in copper or brass vessels untinned must contain more or less of oxalate of copper. If, therefore, naked copper and brass are not so dangerous in the preparation of syrups and jellies as in pickling with vinegar, they are still sufficiently so to deserve banishment from the laboratory of the good housekeeper. The tinning with which the inner surface of copper pans is often covered does not present the same inconvenience as the naked copper. Though vinegar will dissolve part of it, neither the juice of ripe fruit nor the syrup of sugar will do so, at least to any injiirious extent. Therefore tinned vessels may used with[ 365 ] PUD FRI impunity, provided neither the juice nor the syrup be allowed to stand in them for any con- siderable time. It ought, therefore, to become a practice, the adoption of which we cannot too strongly urge, to have both the inner surface and the outer rim, extending two or three inches down the outer surface, covered with a coating of tin. The best pans for preserving are those of bell-metal, those of double block tin, or those of iron double-tinned. The two latter last a very long time, and are much cheaper than brass and copper. The tinning laid upon these two metals, however, wears out, and after a time the dangerous metal peeps through the white surface, often before it is perceived. If, there- fore, a preserving-pan is to be purchased, avoid both brass and copper, and give the preference either to the bell-metal, the block tin, or to the double-tinned iron. It may be urged that either of the dangerous metals might be double-tinned. True, but the tinning would wear out at last: double tinning only lasts some time longer, being in reality not two tiniiings, but merely one coating of tin of double thickness. See Clarifying. PRICKLY HEAT. This, which is prevalent in hot countries, is an eruption of small red pimples in different parts of the body, without an attendant fever; there are also pricking sen- sations in the skin and an intolerable itching. It generally departs, after a few weeks, in white scales. Those predisposed to this affection are such as are unaccustomed to the sun's direct rays. The cause is the too potent influence of heat. It may be known from the itch by never principally affecting the joints; nor does it, as the eruption of this latter affection, contain a watery humour. It always ceases when the tem- perature becomes mild. It has also uniformly a favourable termination. Vegetable diet, re- freshing breezes, forbearance in regard to exer- cise, and some diminution of the influence of the whole of the natural powers will be proper in urgent cases. Simple purgatives should be then also had recourse to. PROOF SPIRIT. This being frequently jnentioned, we had better explain that it is a mixture of two pints of rectified spirit of wine with one pint of water. Its specific gravity ought to be -920 PRUNE TART. Rub i lb. of prunes or raisins, and lay them at the bottom of a deep dish; make a custard of one quart of cream and the yolks of ten eggs; season with sugar, cinnamon, and a little lemon juice; cook it; plump some of the nicest prunes, and put them upon the top. Tamarinds or any dried fruit may be baked in the same way. A little apple pulp may be added to the prunes or custard. It is an excellent way of baking rhubarb and goose- berries, giving them plenty of sugar. PRUSSIC ACID. See Hydrocyanic Acid. PUDDING, DERBYSHIRE. Take one pint of milk and two table-spoonsful of flour; mix them by degrees, boil till it is thick, and set it by till cold; then add 3 ozs. of butter beaten to a cream, J lb. of fine sugar, a little salt, the rind of a lemon grated, the yolks of five, and the whites of three eggs , mix all thoroughly, put a paste round the dish, and bake it in a quick oven. It is very good cold. PUDDING, GERMAN. A pint of cream, two table-spoonsful of flour, the yolks of five eggs, 2 ozs of almonds beaten a little, the crumb of a French roll grated, sugar to your taste, the peels of two lemons grated or shred small, and I lb. of butter clarified, and put in cool. Pour it into buttered cups, and bake them as custards. When you turn them out pour over them melted butter, wine, and sugar. PUDDING, QUAKING. Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold add to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmeg, and sugar; tie closely in a but- tered cloth, boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, for fear it should break. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar for sauce. PUDDING, QUEEN'S. Slice some apples as for fritters ; butter a deep mould well, and put in it a layer of French roll cut very thin, and dipped in butter melted without flour or water; then place alayer of apples and sugar, with lemon- peel grated, and fill the mould in this way. If the apples require it add some juice of lemon, and brandy if you choose ; last of all, cover the mould before you put it into the oven. PUDDING, LIVER (Scotch). Parboil and grate 1 lb. of liver and 1 lb. of suet; soak ^ lb. of bread in a pint of cream or milk, and mix it with spices and sweet herbs; if eggs are to be used it may be more liquid : fill and cook them. Grits may be used instead of bread, or any other seasoning, as directed for Hog's Puddings, with cooked onions, and as much minced suet as liver; add the milk or cream, spices, and sweet herbs ; mix in the liver, and test it: if it is rather thin add an egg or two, or a few crumbs; if too thick, a little milk: test and fill. When pud- dings are thickened with bread they require more room to swell. PUDDING, TRANSPARENT. Put eight eggs well beaten into a stewpan, with | lb. of sugar pounded fine, i lb. of butter, and some nutmeg grated; set it on the fire, and keep constantly stirring till it thickens; then set it in a basin to cool; put a rich puff paste round the edge of a dish, pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light[ 3G6 ] PUD PUD and clear. Candied orange and citron may be fldded if you think proper. PUDDINGS. Many of the directions for jnaking pastry apply also to the preparation of puddings. The freshness of all the ingredients of puddings is of much importance, as fresh-ground flour, pure milk, new laid or sweet eggs, fresh suet, fresh butter, or washed salt butter. Suet makes light pudding crust: beef suet is best, next mutton, and then veal. Beef marrow is sometimes substituted for suet in puddings, which it most enriches. Dripping may be also used for common crust, but neither drip- ping nor butter will make crust so light as suet. Dried fruits for puddings should be care- fully picked, and sometimes washed. Currants may be plumped out by pouring boiling water upon them. They should be dried on a sieve or a cloth before the fire. It is a good plan to pick them m large quantities upon a tni sheet, as in rubbing them on it any stone or grit may be detected by its noise. Raisins should be stoned with clean hands: if done with a knife point much of the pulp is liable to be removed with the stones. The best raisins for puddings are the large, rich kinds: the sultana kind, free from stones, is neitlier so well flavoured nor so luscious. Raisins should be generally once cut, not chopped small, for puddings. Candied peels, as citron, lemon, and orange, should be cut small, but not minced. Fresh fruit shoifld be picked free from stalks, and wiped if required. Ptice, sago, tapioca, &c., should be soaked half an hour, and well washed and picked before they are mixed into puddings; and mustiness should be guarded against. To clean currants for puddings or calces. Put them into a cullender, strew a handful of flour over them, and rub them with the hands to separate the lumps, and to detach the stalks; work them round in the cuUender, and shake it well, when the small stalks and stones will fall through it. Next pour plenty of cold w-ater over the currants, drain and spread them on a soft cloth, press it over them to absorb the moisture, and then lay them on a very clean oven tin or a large dish, and dry them gradually (or they will become hard) either in a cool oven or before the fire, taking care, in the latter case, that they are not placed sufficiently near it for the ashes to fall amongst tliem. When they are perfectly dry clear them entirely from the re- maining stalks, and fixim every stone that may, be amongst them. The best mode of detecting these is to lay the fruit at the far end of the dish or sheet of paper, and to pass it lightly, and in very small portions, vpith the fingers towards one's self, examining it closely as this is done. To mix hatter for puddings. Put the flour and salt into a bowl, and stir them together; whisk the eggs thoroughly, strain them through a fine hair sieve, and add them very gradually to the flour; for if too much liquid be poured to it at once it will be full of lumps, and it is easy, with care, to keep the batter perfectly smooth. Beat it well and lightly with the back of a strong wooden spoon, and after the eggs are added thin it with milk to a proper consistence. The whites of the eggs beaten separately to a solid froth, and stirred gently into the mixture the instant before it is tied up for boiling, or before it is put into the oven to bake, will render it remarkably light. When fruit is added to the batter it must be made thicker than when it is served plain, or it will sink to the bottom of the pudding. Batter should never stick to the knife when it is sent to the table: it will do this both when a sufficient number of eggs are not mixed with it, and when it is not enough cooked. About four eggs to i lb. of flour will make it firm enough to cut smoothly. Do not break many eggs into a bowl together, for if there be one bad one it will spoil those previously in the bowl, but break them one at a time into a basin, beat the whole together with a whisk or a fork, and strain through a sieve. When the whites of eggs are only required, the 3'olks, if not broken, will keep good for two or three days if they be covered up. Warmed butter will not oil if mixed with a little milk or wine. Salt improves the flavour of every pudding mixture, even if it be sweet. A pinch of salt will improve a plum pudding. Batter pudding, to be made very light, should only have the whites of eggs in it, and milk enough to make it the thickness of a custard : a pudding made with a pint of milk requires an hour's boiling. Puddings are better for being mixed some time before boiling or baking, if they be well stirred before they are tied up or put in a dish; it is, however, advisable to add the eggs only just before. Of boiling puddings. It is not requisite to flour a pudding cloth, but merely to dip it in boiling water, and immediately to put the pudding into it. Puddings are boiled in cloths, or in moulds tied in cloths ; they should be tied tightly, and the moulds buttered before the pudding is put into them. They should not be tied up or put into moulds or dishes till the minute before they are to be put into the saucepan or oven. Liquid puddings are best boiled by placing the mould or basin in a stewpan, with hot water enough to boil the pudding without boiling over. As a general rule, however, puddings are lighter[ 367 ] PUD PUD •wlien boiled In a cloth only. In some cases, as rice or bread pudding, the cloth should be tied loosely ; if of flour crust, tightly. Puddings should be put into plenty of boiling water, which should be kept filled up if requisite. If the fire be very fierce the pudding may stick to the bottom of tlie saucepan and burn, to prevent which, before putting in the water, place a plate or dish, hollow downwards, in the saucepan. Upon taking out the pudding boiled in a cloth, dip it into cold water before you untie it, when it will not stick to the cloth or mould. Of baking puddings. All of the custard kind, whether made of eggs and milk only, or of sago, arrowroot, rice (ground or in grain), vermicelli, &c., require a very gentle oven, and are spoiled by fast baking. Those made of batter, on the contrary, should be put in one sufficiently brisk to raise them quickly, but without scorching them. Such as contain salt and raisins must have a well-heated, but not a fierce oven ; for, as they must remain long in it to be thoroughly done, unless carefully managed they will be much too highly coloured or too dry. By whisking to a solid froth the whites of the eggs used for any pudding, and stirring them softly into it at the instant of placing it in t!ie oven, it will be rendered exceedingly light, and will rise very high in the dish; but, as it will partake then of the nature of a souffle, it must be despatched with great expedition to table from the oven, or it will become flat before it is served. When a pudding is sufficiently browned on the surface—that is to say, of a fine equal amber colour—before it is baked through, a sheet of writing paper should be laid over it, but not before it is set. When quite iirm iu the centre it will be done. Potato, batter, plum, and every other kind of pudding, indeed, which is sufficiently solid to allow of it, should be turned or reversed on to a clean hot dish from the one in which it is baked, and strewed with sifted sugar before it is sent to table. PUDDINGS IN HASTE. Shred some suet, and put it with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, 6ome grated lemon-peel, and ginger; mix, and make it into little balls about the size and shape of an egg with a little flour; have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. They take about twenty minutes' boil- ing; but they will rise to the top when done. PUDDING S, HOG'S. Heat two quarts of new milk, and soak 3 lbs. of crumb in it; mince 3 lbs. of beef suet, season with penny- royal, winter savory, thyme, or any other herb, ginger, nutmeg, allspice, pepper, sugar, and salt; beat six eggs, and mix the whole together; cut in pieces lib. of leaf fat, and, as the puddings are filled, put in at proper distances. Half fill, and tie in links or lengths , put them in boiling water, but do not let them boil fast, as it wiil harden the blood too much. Prick them to prevent their bursting. When used soak in hot water, and broil and put them in the oven. PUDDINGS, NELSON. Put half a dozen small cakes called Nelson's cakes or balls, made in small tea-cups, into a Dutch oven. When they are quite hot pour over them melted butter, white wine, and sugar, and serve. PUDDINGS, SCOTCH (White). Mix 1 lb. of grated Naples biscuits, ^ lb. of pre- pared sweet almonds, and | lb. of marrow, beat eight eggs in a pint of cream, and season with orange-flower water, sweet wine, ginger, cinna- mon, nutmeg, minced citron, sugar, and salt; do not fill above two-thirds, simmer slowly, and prick them : they will be done enough in a quarter of an hour. PUDDINGS IN SKINS. The first thing to be done is to clean the skins for filling; empty them well, and rinse them in several waters ; turn them out upon a stick, and lay them in lime water, where they must be left some hours; then scrape and clean them, and lay them again for a night in lime or char- coal water. The use of rose water in cleaning skins must have originated from the idea of covering the bad smell, but which defies every- thing except proper cleaning. The blood should be broken by the hand as it flows either with a little salt or vinegar, to prevent its curdling. All kinds of blood are made into puddings: those considered the most delicate are veniscn, hare, poultry, and all young animals, of which there is great waste, as it might be cooked in the smallest quantities in cups, fried, or in the skins of the necks of poultry. Hog's-blood puddings are generally distinguished by large square pieces of the leaf fat or bacon put in at regular distances. Blood and liver puddings require high seasoning with spices and sweet herbs, pepper, salt, sugar, fried onions, and garlic. The next thing to be thought of is the proper proportion of the ingredients to form consistency and flavour, which often, where there are a number of ingredients ordered in the receipt, bewilders the unexperienced. Tue cook, therefore, ought at first to attain clear ideas upon the nature of what she has to do, and then she cannot err: she ought to keep in mind the different purposes the puddings are made for. Puddings of blood and liver for common family use may be made with from a quarter to half the quantity of suet to the liver or blood; but these puddings ought to have a larger pro-PUE [ 368 ] PUE portion of onion, which must be fried to raise the flavour, with only one sweet herb (such as pennyroyal, sage, &c.), pepper, and salt in full quantity. When these are mixed let a bit be either fried or poached to test it, so that any alteration may be made before the skins are filled. PUERPERAL FEVER, commonly called childbed fever. It begins, like most other fevers, with a cold or shivering fit, which is succeeded by restlessness, pain of the head, great sickness at the stomach, and bilious vomiting. The pulse is generally quick, the tongue dry, and there is a remarkable depres- sion of spirits and loss of strength. A great pain is usually felt in the back, hips, and region of the womb; a sudden change in the quantity or quality of the lochia also takes place; and the patient is frequently troubled with a tenesmus, or constant inclination to go to Btool. The urine, which is very high-coloured, is discharged in small quantity, and generally with pain. The belly sometimes swells to a considerable bulk, and becomes susceptible of pain from the slightest touch. When the fever has continued for a few days the symptoms of inflammation usually subside, and the disease acquires a more putrid form. At this period, if not sooner, a bilious or putrid looseness of an obstinate and dangerous nature comes on, and accompanies the disease through all its future progress. There is not any disease that requires to be treated with more skill and attention than this; consequently the best assistance ought always to be obtained as soon as possible. In women of plethoric constitutions bleeding will generally be proper at the beginning; it ought, however, to be used with caution, and not to be repeated, unless where the signs of inflamma- tion rise high, in which case it will also be necessary to apply a blistering plaster to the region of the womb. During the rigour, or cold fit, proper means should be used to abate its violence and shorten its duration. For this purpose the patient may drink freely of warm diluting liquors, and, if low, may take now and then a cup of wine whey. Warm applications to the extremities, as heated bricks, bottles or bladders filled with warm water, and such-like, may also be used with advantage. Emollient clysters of milk and water, or of chicken water, ought to be frequently admi- _ nistered through the course of the disease. These prove beneficial by promoting a dis- charge from the intestines, and also by acting as a kindly fomentation to the womb and parts adjacent. Great care, however, is requisite in giving them, on account of the tenderness of the parts in the pelvis at this time. To evacuate the offending bile from the stomach a vomit is genei'ally given ; but as this is apt to increase the irritability of the stomach, alreadj' too great, it will be safer to omit it, and to give in its stead a gentle laxa- tive, which will both tend to cool the body and to procure a free discharge of the bile. Midwives ought to be very cautious in ad- ministering vomits or purges to women in child- bed. We have known a woman, who was recovering extremely well, thrown into the most imminent danger by a strong purge which was given her by an officious midwife. The medicine which we have always found to succeed best in this disease is tlie saline draught. This, if frequently repeated, will often put a stop to the vomiting, and at the same time lessen the violence of the fever. If it runs off by stool, or if the patient be restless, a few drops of laudanum or some syrup of poppies may occasionally be added. If the stools should prove so frequent as to weaken and exhaust the patient, a starch clyster, with 30 or 40 drops of laudanum in it, may be administered as occasion shall require ; and the drink may be rice water, in every English pint of which ^ oz. of gum arable has been dissolved. Should these fail, recourse must be had to calumba root, or the powder of bole combined with opium. Though in general the food ottght to be light, and the drink diluting, yet, when the disease has been long protracted, and the patient is greatly spent by evacuations, it will be neces- sary to support her with nourishing diet and generous cordials. It was observed that this fever, after con- tinuing for some time, often acquires a putrid form. In this case the Peruvian bark must be given, either by itself or joined with cordials, as circumstances may require. As the bark in substance will be apt to purge, it may be given in decoction or infusion, mixed with the tinc- ture of roses or other gentle astringents; or 1 scruple of the extract of bark, with ^ oz. of spirituous cinnamon water, 2 ozs. of common water, and 10 drops of laudanum, may be made into a draught, and given every second, third, or fourth hour, as shall be found neces- sary. When the stomach will not bear any kind of nourishment the patient may be supported for some time by clysters of beef tea or chicken broth. To avoid this fever every woman in childbed ought to be kept perfectly easy; her food should be light and simple, and her bedchamber cool and properly ventilated. There is not anything more hurtful to a woman in this situation than being kept too warm. She ought not to havePUM r 3d3 ] PUT her body bound too tightly, nor to rise too soon liom bed after delivery. Catching cold is also to be avoided, and a proper attention should be paid to cleanliness. PUFFETS. See American Puffets. PUITS D'AMOUR. Having given the proper number of turns to some pufF paste, roll it out about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut a piece with a paste cutter, the edges of which are scalloped; then cut more pieces with smaller cutters, and place them on the first; press them down a little on each other, dorez, and bake them. When about three parts done sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them ; draw them from the oven, and take out the middle part, which fill up with any kind of sweetmeat or preserve you may think proper. PULLNA WATER. Bicarbonate of soda, 50 grains; sulphate of magnesia, 4 drachms ; sulphate of soda, 3 drachms; muriate of soda, 1 scruple. Dissolve in a pint of water. Add, lastly, 2 scruples of bisulphate of soda, and close the bottle immediately. Salts fob making Pullna Water. Dry bicarbonate of soda, 1 oz.; exsiccated sulphate of soda, 2 ozs.; e.^siccated sulphate of magnesia, ] I oz.; dry muriate of soda, 2 drachms ; dry tartaric acid, | oz.; or rather, dry bisulphate of soda, 1 oz. PULSE is a term denoting the alternate dilatation and contraction of the heart and arteries, in consequence of which the blood, being ejected from the left ventricle of that organ, is impelled into the arteries, so that it may circulate throughout the body. This inces- sant motion or throbbing of the vessels is dis- tinctly perceptible by the finger. The various circumstances by which a natural pulse is liable to be affected are classed under the following heads:—1. Such as arise from bodily organisation, namely, sex, temperament, and stature. 2. Such as proceed from the difference in the time of life. 3. Time of day. 4. State of the system respecting rest or activity, namely, sleep, exercise, and mental agitation. 5. State of the body with regard to tempera- ture. 6. Effects of food and abstinence. To these may be added the season of the year, the greater or less pressure of the atmosphere, and a variety of other circumstances too numerous to be detailed. Thus the pulse in general beats more quickly in men, especially those of a bilious habit, than in women. In lean persons, whose vessels are large, it is much stronger than in the corpulent or phlegmatic. " Farther, the pulse is more forcible in adults than in children ; but in the aged it is slow and Lard. When the atmosphere is close and pro- ductive of rain, as well as during sedentary occupations, the pulse is languid, and perspira- VOL. II. tion is diminished. In the month of May it is quick, and sometimes even violent; as the summer advances, the rapidity of circulation, though remaining nearly uniform, is considerably reduced in strength, so that in autumn it is slow, soft, and weak ; bat on the approach of winter the pulse becomes hard and strong. The most powerful agents, however, on th6 human pulse are the passions and affections of the mind. Thus, under the influence of terror, it is unequal, small, and contracted ; under that of joy it becomes frequent and large ; during anger it is hard, and beats quickly ; and lastly, in persons pursuing intense study it is unusually languid. According to our experience, the standard of a natural pulse in adults in a good state of health appears to be 72 in men, and 66 in women, and its extreme acceleration 125. Thus we observe from some authorities that, for a person whose natural pulse is 75, the beginning of fever is 96, hectic fever 108, and inflammatory fever 120. According to this proportion, in one whose natural pulse is 60, the first of these stages should be about 77; the second, 86; the third, 96. On the other hand, a natural pulse of 80 would require them to be about 102, 115, and 128. Independently of other symptoms, neither the frequency of the pulse nor its peculiar modification appears to be of so much conse- quence in diseases as is generally imagined. PUMPKIN. The Arabs mix rice and meat with the flesh of the pumpkin, and cook the mixture in its basin-like rind. In America the flesh of the warted gourd has for ages been boiled, and eaten with meat as a vegetable ; and, wherever these edible kinds are grown, their cooked flesh is considered cooling and diuretic, and when beaten fine, and applied warm, is one of the best of poultices. In Venice we have seen the pumpkin roasted in the streets on the ground with a few embers. Cottagers who have no stoves may do this very well. The pumpkin also makes very nice fritters, made as apple fritters usually are done. PUMPKIN : To Stew. Cut in slices, pare and take out the seeds, and blanch it; put it into a stewpan, with butter, minced parsley, pepper, scallions, and salt; toss and serve it. It is excellent baked, and dressed at the table with new milk, sugar, spices, and butter. PUMPKIN PIE. Take out the seeds, and pare the pumpkin, but do not scrape the inside, as the part nearest the seeds is the sweetest. Stew the pumpkin with a little salt, and press it through a cullender. For a large pie, to one 2 B[ 370 ] PUN PUM quart of milk add four eggs beaten up, some powdered cinnamon (about a table-spoonful), sugar, a little ginger, a little grated lemon-peel, and half a tea-spoonful of the juice if liked. The pumpkin and all these ingredients, well beaten up together and thrown into a pie dish, with a thin under-crust nicely baked brown, and sen-ed up hot, will be found an excellent dish, and is much liked by the North Americans. Bake in a warm oven about an hour. Some persons make a pumpkin pie by mix- ing it with apples, and baking it with an over- crust. Another pie is made by taking out the seeds, and grating the pumpkin till you come to the outside of the sldn. Sweeten the pulp, add a little lemon and any spice to suit the taste, and bake it without an upper-crust. PUMPKIN SOUP (1). We can recommend this as one of the best and cheapest of household soups. Into two quarts of cold water put 3 lbs. of pumpkin, or gourd, cut into thin slices, peeled, and with all the seeds removed; two large onions, also peeled and sliced, with a small stick of celery cut into very small pieces. Boil these together slowly for two hours and a half, and then, after adding 1 oz. of dripping, two large table-spoonsful of flour, and of pepper and salt as much as pleases the taste, boil for half an hour longer: stir frequently during the whole of the boiling. The pumpkins saved for seed are better for this purpose than those which are less ripe and more watery. PUMPKIN SOUP (2). This should be made with full-grown pumpkins, three or four, according to the sizes. Slice them, and put them into a stewpan, with two or three onions, a bit of butter, and a little good broth; set them over a slow fire till they are tender, but do not allow thera to burn ; then add a tea-cup- ful of crust of bread broken small, and two quarts of good consomme or rich gravy. Season with salt and Cayenne pepper, pass it through a cullender, and boil it for ten minutes. Serve it up with fried bread. PUMPS, FROZEN. To thaw these put a bung into the nozzle of the pump, and two or three handsful of salt into the barrel. If put in overnight take out the bung, and pump out the salt and water, after which the pump may be used in ordinary. Repeat this when needed. See Freezing of Pipes and Vessels. PUNCH (1). This is a delicious beverage drunk either hot or cold. It is composed of a mixture of lemon juice and peel, sugar, rum, brandy, and water, in such proportions that the liquor may be flavoured with all the ingredients, but that none may predominate. By the introduction of other articles, such as arrack, champagne, &c., to the above, it is called champagne punch, arrack punch, &c. The best method of proceeding is as follows:—Pare your lemons very thin, and soak the peels in spirits ; dissolve the sugar in lemon juice, then put in the spirits in the proportion of two glasses of rum to one of brandy, some strong green tea, and water at discretion. PUNCH (2). Take two ripe and fresh lemons with rough rinds, rub them with some lumps of double-refined sugar till the yellow of the fruit is wholly absorbed ; put the sugar into a bowl, with as much more of the juice of lemons as may be required; squeeze the juice upon the sugar and press the whole well to- gether ; then mix this "with boiling soft water till the -whole is rather cool. When this sherbet is agreeable to your palate take rum and brandy in equal quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole thoroughly. Two good lemons are enough for four quarts of jDunch, including a quart of liquor and ^ lb. of sugar. This sherbet may be strained before the liquor is put in, as the pulp is not alike pleasant to all palates. If rum only is used half a pint of porter may be added with good efl'ect. PUNCH, MILK. Pare six oranges and as many lemons as tliin as possible, and grate them with sugar to get out the flavour; steep the peels in a quart of brandy or rum, and stop closely twenty-four hours ; squeeze the fruit on 2 lbs. of sugar; add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk boiling hot; stir the liquor into it, and run it through a jelly bag till clear. Bottle and cork it for use. PUNCH, NORFOLK. To twenty quarts of brandy put the peels of thirty lemons, and as many oranges pared extremely thin. Infuse twelve hours ; then take thirty quarts of water that has been boiled, but become cold, and put to it 15 lbs. of double-refined sugar. When well mixed pour it on the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges, and that of twenty-four lemons. Incorporate all these mixtures thoroughly, and then strain the whole through a hair sieve into a clean barrel that has held spirits, and put to it two quarts of new milk; stir it, and bung it closely, let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar, and then bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are clean and dry, and the corks good. This beverage will keep for years. Or, pare six lemons or three Seville oranges thin, squeeze the juice into a jug, put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white wine, one of milk, and 1J lb. of sugar. Mix the whole well, and then cover for twenty-four hours. Strain through a jelly bag till it is clear, and bottle it.[ 371 ] PUT PUN PUNCH, SYRUP OF. Make a syrup with Ifimons as directed (see Syrups), and when nearly cold and well flavoured pour on it a bottle of arrack or rum ; stir well to amalgamate the two liquids, and cover the vessel till the whole is quite cold, when it mav be bottled. PUNCH, TRANSiPARENT JELLY OF. Throw into some nearly boiling syrup the rinds of two lemons ; cover, and leave the infusion to cool. In the meantime prepare your souffle in the usual way {see Souffle Fean9ais); put in the infusion of tea, and, at the moment you are to put in the yolks of the eggs, add half a glass of good rum or arrack, then 1 oz. of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. PURGATIVES. See Aperients. PUTRID FEVER, See Typhus Fever. PUTRID SORE THROAT. This disease arises from a peculiar or humid state of the atmosphere, and so becomes generally infectious. It principally attacks children, and those of a weak or lax habit, and is most prevalent in autumn and the beginning of winter. It may also be produced by contagion, as it has been known to run through a whole family when once it has seized one of its members. It often proves fatal, particularly to children. In some instances it is so combined with scarlet fever that it is difficult to determine of which it most partakes. In this respect, however, there is nothing of any material importance, as both diseases require the same treatment. It also not unfrequently attends on measles which are of a malignant nature. The symptoms of attack of putrid sore throat are cold shiverings, anxiety, nausea, and vomit- ing, succeeded by heat, restlessness, thirst, general weakness, and oppression at the chest; the face looks flushed, the eyes are red, and there is a sensible stiffness in the neck, with hurried breathing, hoarseness, and soreness in the throat. It generally arrives at its height about the fifth or sixth day, and, in cases which terminate favourably, it declines in five or six. When the complaint first sets in there is a considerable degree of fever and inflammation of the throat. About the second or third day large patches of a dark red colour appear about the face and neck, which by degrees spread over every part of the body. These, however, disappear in about four days, without any abate- ment of the symptoms. The whole neck some- times swells, and assumes a dark red colour. In the worst of cases the inside of the throat appears quite black and deeply ulcerated, spread- ing to the intestines, and ultimately ending in gangrene. The treatment of putrid sore throat differs from that of the inflammatory by not bleeding either locally or generally, nor in using strong purgative medicine, as a looseness, even arising spontaneously, always does harm, and often proves fatal. The bowels, nevertheless, must be kept open, or rather their contents expelled, by gentle aperients and clysters when nature is defective. If active purgatives are ever neces- sary in this complaint, they can only be so at the commencement and at the termination of those cases where, notwithstanding the healthy appeai'ance in the throat, with an abatement of all the febrile symptoms, still the belly is swollen from a collection of putrid matter that has accumulated in the intestines. At the commencement of putrid sore throat a gentle emetic of from 15 to 80 grains of the powder of ipecacuanha, or 15 grains of it with 1 grain of emetic tartar, has been found ser- viceable, and in some cases will cut short the progress of the disease during the first twenty- four hours. When the symptoms are moderate, and when the ulceration is slight, a gargle made of a pint of sage and rose tea, three spoonsful of vinegar, and one spoonful of honey, has been found as efficacious as any other of the anti- septic gargles containing mineral acids. The following is Dr. Fothergill's gargle :—Barley water, 12 ozs., to which, during the time it boils, add contrayerva root bruised, J oz. Strain the liquor, and mix with it white wine vinegar, 2 ozs.; tincture of myrrh, 1 oz.; honey, 6 drachms. In this disease the putrescent tendency of the whole system should be guarded against by giving the Peruvian bark in substance from the commencement, continuing it throughout the course of the disease as much as the patient's stomach will bear; namely, ^ drachm or 3 scruples every hour. As children are more frequently the subjects of this complaint than grown people, it is often difficult to prevail on them to take a sufficient quantity of this neces- sary and valuable, though rather nauseous me- dicine. In these cases clysters with powdered bark have been used with great success. For this purpose 2 drachms of the fine powder may be thrown up as a clyster, in 5 ozs. or 6 ozs. of barley water, every three or four hours, to very young children, and -J- oz. or 6 drachms to children of eight or ten years old, in three quarters of a pint of barley water. If the first clyster comes away too speedily, 2 or 3 grains of opium may be added to those which follow. Stimulant tonic and astringent gargles, such as the following, are highly serviceable : — Take bruised capsicum seeds, I- drachm ; barley water, 7 ozs.; lioney of roses, 3 drachms ; tinc- ture of m_yrrh, 5 drachms. To be used fre- quently. Or, tincture of capsicum, 2 drachms ; clarified hone3% ^ oz.; tincture of myrrh, 5 drachms ; distilled water, 7 ozs. Or, infusionQUA PUT [ 372 ] of roses, 6 ozs.; tincture of myrrh, 1 oz. ; di- luted sulphuric acid, 1 drachm. To be used frequently. Or, soft extract of bark, 1 drachm; red port wine, 7 ozs. Inhaling the steam of hot water impregnated •with myn-h, camphor, and vinegar may also be had recourse to. Should a looseness come on which is not critical, opium and astringents are directed, of which the following are some of the best forms of giving them combined :—Take chalk mixture, 8 ozs.; ipecacuanha wine, 1^ drachm ; tincture of ginger, ^ oz. Make a mix- ture. Or, chalk mixture, 8 ozs.; aromatic con- fection, drachm ; tincture of opium, .30 drops. Or, chalk mixture, 6 ozs.; compound tincture of cardamoms, 1 oz. ; syrup of ginger, \ oz.; tincture of opium, | drachm. Of any of these mixtures three table-spoonsful may be given every two, three, or four hours, or after every purging stool, and the opium, when used, increased if necessary. Mulled port wine, or pure port, or diluted brandy should be frequently administered where t!ie symptoms run high ; and, as the disease advances, the patient's strength must be sup- ported by diluted wine, with sago, arrowroot, tapioca, &c.: for ordinary drink, wine whey, or negus acidulated with oranges and lemons. The patient's chamber should be kept cool, the floor often sprinkled with vinegar, air freely admitted, and fumigated by casting powdered nitre over a chafing dish containing live coals. All sources of putrid effluvia should be removed, the stools regularly taken away, and the patient's linen frequently changed. A change of air is often necessary after the attack. PUTTY is a compound of boiled linseed oil and whiting; but as it may be bought in London at half a guinea per hundred weight, it is scarcely worth while to make it. One hundred weight is enough for puttyiog about three hundred square feet of glass. Old putty may be softened by applying to it Jags dipped in a saturated solution of caustic potash, leaving them on for twelve hours, or by rubbing h hot iron along the putty. If the putty is made at home the whiting should be well dried, and then pounded and sifted till it becomes a fine powder, and is quite free from grit. The whiting, a little warm, should be gradually added to the oil, and well mixed by means of a piece of stick or a spatula. When it is sufficiently stiff it should be well w'orked with the hand on a table, and afterwards beaten on a stone with a wooden mallet till it becomes a soft, smooth, tenacious mass. A ball of putty, when left some days, becomes somewhat hard, but may be easily softened by beating. PYRMONT WATER. This celebrated chaly- beate spring at PyTmont,in the province of West- phalia, possesses the same medical properties as the Pouhon at Spa; but it is tiicjght to be considerably rougher, and more actise in its operation. It is indicated in the same diseases, and it requires similar precautions in its use. Bergmann's analysis presents the following constituent parts in a wine pint :— Graini. Oxide of iron . , , '56 Carbonate of lime , . . 4-46 Carbonate of magnesia . . 10 03 Sulphate of lime . . . 8-68 Sulphate of magnesia . . 6-57 Muriate of soda - • • 1*56 30-86 The quantity of gas which this water contains exceeds that of any mineral spring with which we are acquainted. Bergmann estimates it at 90 per cent, of the bulk of the water, or about 26 cubic inches in the pint. It is almost entirely carbonic acid gas. PYROLIGNEOUS ACID is merely impure vinegar obtained by the dry distillation of wood in close vessels. Until purified it contains creosote, along with other impurities. Hence it has been found to be very efficacious in pre- serving animal substances from decay, and to impart to them the peculiar flavour of bacon, herrings, &c., which have been dried by means of burning wood. Q. QUAILS : To Roast. Truss the birds, and stuff them with beef suet and sweet herbs, both shred veiy small, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; fasten them to a spit, and put them to the fire; baste with salt and water when they begin to get warm ; then dredge them with flour, and baste them with butter. Put an anchovy, two or three shallots, and the juice of a Seville orange into a little rich gravy; set it on the fire, shake it about, and when the an- chovy is dissolved serve it with the quails. Garnish the dish with fried bread crumbs. These birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in a slice of bacon, and then in a vine leaf. They should be kept at a moderate distance from the fire. QUAILS, HUNTERS'. Put the quails in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay leaf, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; set them on a fierce fire, and keep shaking them until they are tender, when add a dessert-spoonful of flour, half a glass of white wine, and a little stock. When this is thick, and quite hot without boil- > ing, take it from the fire, and serve. QUAILS, SALMIS OF. Quails alone makeQUA [ 373 ] QUE but an indifferent salmis, but are excellent mixed with partridges. They are cut in halves, and yield no trimmings except the head and neck. But, after all, a salmis of quails, or of partridges and quails mixed, could only serve for a family dinner. It would be considered absurdity at a dinner party. QUAILS, SPANISH. Mix the juice of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pepper ; pick and prepare eight quails, and stuff them well with the above mixture ; then fasten the legs to the body, leaving the claws free ; truss them a good shape, and put them into a saucepan on slices of bacon; cover them also with slices; add a little gravy, moistened with equal por- tions of white wine and stock ; set them on the fire for half an hour; then take them out, drain, and untie the birds ; place each of them on a piece of fried bread the size of the quail, and serve with clear Spanish sauce, with the addition of a little glaze. QUAILS, STEWED. Put a little butter worked up with flour and a few green onions into a stewpan. When brown put in some quails, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, parsley, some more small onions, a bay leaf, and two or three cloves : stew these till the quails are sufficiently done. Garnish your dish with cocks' combs, artichoke bottoms, fried QUAILS WITH TRUFFLES. Peel and cut some truffles into rather large dice, and put them into a saucepan, with equal quantities of grated bread and butter, a little chopped parsley, salt, pepper, four kinds of spice, and a truffle minced small: set them on the fire seven or eight minutes. When cold stuff some quails with this mixture, truss and tie up the birds in proper form, and put them into a saucepan, with slices of bacon under and over. Put into another saucepan some veal cut in dice, a carrot, seven or eight onions, a clove, the trim- mings of the truffles used above, half a bay leaf, and a good bit of butter; set these on the fire for a quarter of an hour; then add a glass of white wine and the same of stock, and give the whole two or three boilings ; pour this seasoning over the quails, and set them on the fire. Half an hour will be sufficient to cook them. When done take them out, drain and arrange the birds round the dish, with the sauce in the centre, on a reduced EJspagnole. QUARTER. See Measures : Corn Measure. QUARTER DAY. See House. • QUARTERN. This was the name by which the 4 lb. loaf was known a few years since. It also means a quarter of a pint of any liquor. QUASSIA, From Quassia amara the drug quassia was originally obtained. It is a small branching tree or shrub, from fifteen to twenty feet high, a native of the woods of Surinam, Guiana, Cayenne, and the island of Triuadad. Every part of the plant possesses the bitter principle, even to the leaves and flowers, but it is the wood only which is used; and it is veiy rarely that now any part of this ever comes to this country, it being so very scarce and of small bulk; its place is supplied by other individuals of the family, although none of them yield the same intense bitter which this does. That which is most abundant, and which is, in fact, in general use, is the wood of Simaruha excelsa, called in the Caribbee Islands hitter ash. It is a native of the woods of Jamaica and other of the West India islands, where it forms a lofty tree, from sixty even to a hundred feet high. The medicinal virtues of Quassia amara were discovered about the middle of the last century by a negro of Surinam, named Quassi, Coissi, or Quass, who acquired considerable reputation from employing the wood with great success as a secret cure in the malignant endemic fevers which arp so prevalent in that country. He was induced to disclose his secret by Daniel Rolander, a Swede, who iu 1756 brought specimens of the wood to Stockholm, and from that time the effects of this drug have been well known throughout Europe, and the name of the negro has been perpetuated in that of the plant. But the quassia of Surinam is not now or very rarely in use, its place being, as we have already stated, supplied by Simaruha ex- celsa. Quassia is purely tonic, invigorating the digestive organs with little excitement of the circulation or increase of animal heat. It has no sensible odour, and its taste is purely bitter, which is surpassed by that of few other substances in intensity and permanence. Its virtues depend on a peculiar bitter crystallisable principle dis- covered by Winckler, and called quassine, which is white, opaque, unalterable in the air, in- odorous, and of an intense bitterness, which in the solution is almost insupportable. The bitterness is pure, and resembles that ot the wood. Quassine, when heated, melts like resin ; and it is perfectly neuter, though both alkalies and acids increase its solubility in water. Its ultimate constituents are carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Quassia is used by brewers as a sub- stitute for hops; but Dr. Thomson says that beer made with it does not keep, but soon becomes muddy and flat, has a mawkish taste, and soon runs into the acetous fermentation; and that the wood has narcotic properties is evidenced by the facility with which a decoction of it poisons flies. QUEEN'S METAL. A species of pewter used to make teapots, &o., made by fusing under charcoal a mixture of tin, 9 parts; antimony.[ 374 J QUI QUE bismuth, and lead, of each 1 part; or, tin, 100 parts; antimony, 8 do.; copper, 4 do.; bismuth, 1 do.—(Cooley's Dictionary.) QUENELLES. Prepare and. beat in a mortar the white of a coolved fowl till it can be rubbed through a quenelle cullender with the back of a wooden spoon; take an equal quantity of panada and veal udder or butter, and beat them all separately ; measure the quantities, and beat them together; put in three whole eggs and three yolks one after another, dropping in a little water between; season with salt and nutmeg, gather it together, test it, and if not firm enough add what entire eggs may be necessary. When it is ready whip the three whites that were left out, and add, breaking the yolks as little as possible ; form the farce into quenelles of an egg shape in different-sized spoons, which must be dipped in water, and slip them from a spoon into a buttered saucepan. When they are finished cover them with boiling soup, and let them swim in it without touching one another; let them simmer, turn, drain upon a cloth, and garnish with them according to the size of the dish. If they are for a vol au vent they must be formed in table-spoons. Quenelles may be made of any meat, as veal, fowl, game, fish, fruit, or vegetables. QUICK BISCUITS. Rub a table-spoonful of lard into a quart of flour, and mix in two tea- spoonsful of finely powdered cream of tartar, with a tea-spoonful of salt; put a tea-spoonful of supercarbonate of soda in a pint of warm milk; work it in, and make the paste of ordi- nary consistence for biscuit or pie crust, adding flour or milk if either is needed; make it out in biscuit form, or roll it about half an inch thick, and cut in shapes. Bake them about twenty minutes. QUICK WAFFLES. Take one pint of milk, and beat into it three eggs, and enough wheat flour to make a thick batter; add a table- spoonful of melted butter, a little salt, and bake them immediately. Some persons add two table-spoonsful of sugar and a little cinnamon ; others dust loaf sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg over each waffle as it is baked. QUICKSILVER. See Mercury. QUILLS. To render these fit for making pens suspend the quills in a copper over water sufficiently high to touch the nibs ; then close it steam-tight, and apply four hours' hard boiling; next withdraw and dry them, and in twenty- four hours cut the nibs and draw out the pith; lastly, rub them with a piece of cloth, and expose them to a moderate heat in an oven or stove. The quills prepared in this way are as hard as bone, without being brittle, and as transparent as glass. This is what is termed Dutchifying quills. QUINCE CAKES. Pare and core half a dozen quinces, and boil them till quite soft; then rub the pulp through a sieve, and strain it; mix this with half a pint of syrup of quinces, the same of syrup of barberries, and \ lb. of fine sugar; boil the whole to casse, and then pour it into small shallow moulds of any shape you please ; let them cool a little, and then dry them in a stove. QUINCE CAKES, TRANSPARENT. Take a quart of syrup of quinces, and half a pint of syrup of barberries; set them on a gentle fire ; boil and skim them well; then add 2^ lbs. of sugar, and keep stirring till it reaches candy height; take it off, and when nearly cold lay it in any form you please on tin plates. Dry them in a stove. QUINCE CREAM. Take four or five ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to soften them ; pare, core, slice them thin, and then boil them slowly in a pint of good cream, with a little ginger. When tolerably thick strain it, add sugar to your taste, and flavour it with rose water. QUINCE JELLY. Quinces for jelly ought not to be quite ripe; they should, however, be of a fine yellow colour. Take off the down which covers them, set them on the fire, quarter, core, and put them into a saucepan, with water enough to cover them; set them on the fire, and when soft lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, pressing them very slightly; strain the liquor, and measure it; clarify and boil to casse an equal quantity of sugar, then take it off, and add the liquor to it, stirring it well. When mixed put it on the fire, still stimng. As soon as the jelly spreads over the spoon, and falls from it like treacle, take it from the fire, and when cold pour it into pots. QUINCE MARMALADE. Gather the fruit when fully ripe, and of a fine yellow; pare, quarter, and core it; put the quinces into a saucepan with a little water, and set them on the fire until they are quite soft; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain ; rub them through, and weigh the pulp ; boil au equal quantity of sugar to petite casse, then add the pulp, and stir them together over the fire until it will fall from the spoon like a jelly. The marmalade is then fit to be put into pots, and when cold cover them closelv. QUINCE PUDDING. Take a sufficient number of ripe quinces to yield ] lb. of pulp, to which put ^ lb. of powder sugar, cinnamon and ginger pounded, of each 2 drachms, and mix them well. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs in a pint of cream; add the quince, &c.; stir the whole together, flour a cloth, tie the pudding in, and boil it. QUINCE, RATAFIA OF. Take a gallonQUI [ 375 ] QUI and a half of brandy, three quarts of the juice of quinces, 3 lbs. of crushed sugar, 1 drachm of cinnamon, and the same of cloves, both bruised. Proceed as follows:—Put the spice into the brandy, and leave it; scrape the quinces, and let the scrapings lie twenty-four hours to ferment. After that time put them in a close linen cloth, and press out the juice by means of a wine-press; add this juice to the spiced brandy, and leave it for three weeks or a month; then draw it off, dissolve the sugar, filter, and put it to the ratafia. Coriander or mace, or both, may be added if approved. QUINCE SEEDS. /See Bandeline. QUINCE TART. Take some preserved quinces ; make a syrup with some sugar and water, of which and the preserve take an equal weight, and put it into a preserving-pan; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit. When tole- rably clear lay the quinces in a tart dish, with puff paste as usual; cover and bake it. As soon as it is done raise the top gently, pour in the syrup, ice it, and serve. QUINCES : To Pickle. Pare and cut half a dozen quinces into small pieces, and put them, with a gallon of water and 2 lbs. of honey, into a large saucepan; mix them together well, set them on a slow fire for half an hour, and strain the liquor into a jar. When quite cold wipe the quinces perfectly dry, put them into the jar, and cover them very closely. QUINCES, COMPOTE OF. Take six quinces, cut them in halves, and core them ; scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear syrup into a preserving-pan, with the juice of a lemon; when hot add the quinces, and give them a boil together; drain the fruit, arrange it in the compotier, leave the syrup to thicken a little, and pour it over the quinces. QUINCES, SYRUP OF. Pare and scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen cloth ; press out the juice, which put in a veiy warm place, or where it is exposed to the sun, until all the fecula falls to the bottom ; then strain it well, and for every J lb. of juice take 1 lb. of sugar ; mix them together, and boil the whole to perle; take it off, and when the syrup is nearly cold it may be bottled. Take care to keep the bottles well corked. QUINCES IN WHITE JELLY. Take as many quinces as you may require; choose them sound: pare, quarter, and core them, strewing powder sugar as you do them, and also filling up the holes with sugar; throw in a small quantity of water, and set them on a fierce fire to boil quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, and the syrup clear, add some apple jelly, give the whole one boil, and then pour it into glasses. When cold drain off the syrup and jeUy, put them into a saucepan, and let them boil as quickly as you can. Just before the jelly is taken off put in a small quantity of musk, or any other ingredient you may wish to flavour the preserve with; then pour in the glasses again over the quinces, and when cold cover them. This may also be coloured red by adding a small quantity of prepared cochineal. In this case the jelly should be red too. QUININE, SULPHATE OF. Dr. Duncan justly observes that this may be truly denomi- nated the quintessence of Peruvian bark, and from this name its action may be readily inferred. It possesses all the medical virtues of the drug, concentrated in a very small volume, which in this instance is an immense advantage, as the inert or offensive principles exist in so large a proportion, that they often prevent the bark being administered in substance in sufficient quantity to produce its curative effects. This is not so remarkably the case in regard to some of the other alkaloids, as, for example, morphia, since select opium produces its full action in a dose already sufficiently small; and hence morphia, or its salts, will never be gene- rally employed. Sulphate of quinia, on the contrary, is already in very general use, and will always continue to be one of the most valuable additions which the practice of medicine has derived from the science of chemistry. It may be used in every case in which Peruvian bark in substance is proper. In some instances its beneficial effects may be particularised. Intermittent fevers, in this country, rarely resist its administration, in doses of 3 to 5 grains every two or three hours during the interval. In very acute cases of rheumatism it has most successfully been given in doses of 5 grains four times a day. It operates as a most powerful sudorific, and generally induces considerable debility. It is used also with success in neuralgia, in hemorrhages, and fluxes. From its extreme bitterness it is seldom exhibited in solution. Most commonly the salt is rubbed up with a little sugar to reduce it to fine powder, and taken as a bolus, mixed up with a little currant jelly; or it is made into a pill mass with crumb of bread and mucilage, or any of the soft extracts. Fi'om its solubility being increased by acids it is very advisable to take, after each dose of sulphate of quinia, a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid in a glass of water, which also serves to wash the bitter taste from the mouth. QUIN'S SAUCE. Mushroom catsup, \ pint; walnut pickle, \ pint; port wine, \ pint; six anchovies and six shallots, both pounded ; soy, a table-spoonful; Cayenne, \ drachm. Simmer together gently for ten m nutes, strain, and bottle. See Sauce, Quin's. ,QUI QUI [ 870 ] QUINSY, MALIGNANT, or Putrid Ulceeous Sore Throat (Cynanche maligna). This kind of sore throat is but little knowu in the northern parts of Britain, though for some time past it has been fatal in the more southern counties. Children are more liable to it than adults, females than males, and the delicate than those who are hardy and robust. It pre- vails chiefly in autumn, and is most frequent after a long course of damp or sultry weather. It is readily distinguished from the inflam- matory quinsy by the soreness and white specks, or aphthae, covering ulcers which appear in the fauces, together with the great debility of the system, a small fluttering pulse, and an eruption on the skin of the same nature with that of scarlet fever, which are to be observed in the foi-mer; whereas in the latter there is always a great difficulty of breathing, a considerable degree of swelling, with a tendency in the parts to suppurate, and a hard pulse. Also in the seat of the disease, which in the former is principally in the nervous membrane of the mouth and throat, and the accompanying fever is of the typhoid kind ; whereas, in the latter, it chiefly occupies the glandular parts, and the fever is of the inflammatory type. Causes. This is evidently a contagious dis- temper, and is generally communicated by infec- tion. Whole families, and even entire villages., often receive the infection from one person. This ought to put people upon their guard against going near such patients as labour-under the disoi'der, as by that means they endanger not only their own lives, but likewise those of their friends and connections. Whatever tends to produce putrid or malignant fevers may likewise occasion the putrid ulcerous sore throat, as unwliolesome air, damaged provisions, neglect of cleanliness, &c. In some instances the symptoms of scarlet fever and putrid sore throat are so blended that it is frequently difficult te pronounce of which the disease partakes most; this, however, is of little importance in a practical point of view, as both require the same mode of treat- ment. Symptoms. It begins with alternate fits of shivering and heat. The pulse is quick, but low and unequal, and generally continues so through the whole course of the disease. The patient complains greatly of weakness and oppression of the breast; his spirits are low, and he is apt to faint away when set upright; he is troubled with a nausea, and often with a vomiting or purging. The two latter are most common in children. The eyes appear red and watery, and the face swells. The urine is at first pale and crude ; but, as the disease ad- Tances, it turns more of a yellowish colour. The tongue is white, and generally moist, which distinguishes this from an inflammatoi-y disease. Upon looking into the throat it appears swelled, and of a florid red colour. Pale or ash-coloured spots, however, are here and there interspersed, and sometimes one broad patch or spot of an irregular figure, and pale white colour, sur- I'ounded with florid red, only appears. These whitish spots or sloughs cover so many ulcers. An efflorescence, or eruption upon the neck, arms, breast, and fingers, about the second or third day, is a common symptom of this disease. When it appears the purging and vomiting generally cease. There is often a slight degree of delirium, the face frequently appears bloated, and the inside of the nostrils red and inflamed. The patient complains of a disagreeable putrid smell, and his breath is very ofl'ensive. , The putrid ulcerous sore throat may be distinguished from the inflammatory by the vomiting and looseness with which it is generally ushered in ; the foul ulcers in the throat covered with a white or livid coat; and by the excessive weakness of the patient, with other symptoms of a putrid fever. Unfavourable symptoms are an obstinate purging, extreme weakness, dimness of the sight, a livid or black colour of the spots, and frequent shiverings, with a weak, fluttering pulse. If the eruption upon the skin suddenly disappears, or becomes of a livid colour, with a discharge of blood from the nose or mouth, the danger is very great. If a gentle sweat breaks out about the third or fourth day, and continues with a slow, firm, and equal pulse ; if the sloughs cast off in a kindly manner, and appear clean and florid at the bottom; and if the breathing is soft and free, with a lively colour of the eyes, there is reason to hope for a salutaiy crisis. Diet. The patient must be kept quiet, and for the most part in bed, as he will be apt to be faint when taken out of it. His food must be nourishing and restorative, as sago gruel with red wine, jellies, strong broths, &c. His drink ought to be generous, and of an antiseptic quality, as red wine negus, white wine whey, and such-like. Medicine. The medicine in this kind of quinsy is entirely difl'erent from that which is proper in the inflammatory. All evacuations as bleeding, purging, &c., which weaken th( patient, must be avoided. Cooling medicines, ,, as nitre and cream of tartar, are likewise hurtful. Strengthening cordials alone can be used with safety, and these ought never to be neglected. If ;at the beginniug there is a great nausea, or inclination to vomit, the patient must drink an infusion of green tea, camomile flowers, orQUI C 377 ] QUI cardum benedictus, in order to cleanse the stomach. If these are not sufficient he may take a few grains of the powder of ipecacuanha, or any other gentle vomit. If the disease be mild the throat may be gargled with an infusion of sage and rose leaves, to a gill of which may be added a spoonful or two of honey, and as much vinegar as will make it agreeably acid; but when the symptoms are urgent, the sloughs large and thick, and the breath very offensive, the following or similar gargles may be used: — Take decoction of Peruvian bark, 6 ozs.; muriatic acid, 1 drachm ; compound tincture of cinnamon, ^ oz.; tincture of myrrh, 1 oz. Make a gargle, to be used as above. Or, take honey of roses, 1 oz.; barley •water, 10 ozs.tincture of myrrh, i oz. ■; vinegar, 1 oz. Mix and make a gargle. To 6 ozs. or 7 ozs. of either of the above pectoral decoctions, when boiling, add ^oz. of coiitrayerva root; let it boil for some time, and afterwards strain the liquor, to which add -2 ozs. of white wine vinegar, 1 oz. of fine honey, and 1 oz. of the tincture of myrrh. This ought not only to be used as a gargle, but a little of it should fre- quently be injected with a syringe, to dean the throat before the patient takes any meat or drink. This method is peculiarly necessary for children who cannot use a gargle. No degree of force, however, is to be used ,to effect a separation of the sloughs ; and if, after a con- tinuation of the gargles for some time, the sloughs should not begin to separate, all that can safely be done is to touch them with a little alum, or the muriatic acid mixed with honey, and applied by means of a piece of lint or hair pencil. It will be of great benefit if the patient frequently receives into his mouth, through an inverted funnel, the steams of warm vinegar, myrrh, and honey. But when the putrid symptoms run high, and the disease is attended with danger, the only medicine that can he depended upon is the Peruvian bark. It may be taken in r$ubstance if the patient's stomach will bear it. If not, 1 oz. of bark grossly powdered, with 3 drachms of Virginian snake-root, may be boiled in an English pint and a half of water to half a pint, to which a tea-spoonful of the diluted sulphuric acid may he added, and an ordinary tea-cupful of it taken every three or four hours. Blisters are very beneficial in this disease, especially when the patient's pulse and spirits are low. They may be applied to the throat, behind the ears, or upon the back part of the neck. Should the vomiting prove troublesome, it will be proper to give the patient two table- spoonsful of the saline mixture in a state of effervescence by opiate joined with camphor, and cloths wetted in tincture of opium applied to the pit of the stomach. Mint tea and a little cinnamon will be very proper for the ordinary drink, especially if an equal quantity of red wine be mixed with it. If a diarrhoea should arise in the progress of the disease, powerful astringents must be imme- diately resorted to, to which may be added wine or brandy mulled up with spice. Every means must be adopted to put an immediate stop to it, as at all periods of this disease diarrhoea is a very dangerous symptom. The following is a good astringent medicine:— Take aromatic confection, 1 drachm; chalk mix- ture, 2 ozs.; cinnamon water, 1J oz.; tincture of opium, 20 to 30 drops; tincture of catechu, 1 drachm. Make a mixture, of which two table-spoonsful may be given every four hours. If bleeding from the nose occur, the steam of warm vinegar may be frequently inhaled up the nostrils, and the drink be sharpened with sulphuric acid or tincture of roses. And as hemorrhage from the nose is not an uncommon occurrence in putrid sore throats, as well as from the mouth and ears, and as it never proves critical, or is attended with any salutary effect, but, on the contrary, threatens the greatest danger, it ought to be immediately stopped by administering strong antiseptics internally, as advised under the head of Typhus Fever, and by the external application of tents dipped in some powerful styptics, as a solution of the sulphate of copper. Take suIt pbate of copper, 1^ drachm ; alum, i drachm- water, 7 ozs.; rectified spirit, 1 oz. Make a styptic solution. In case of a strangury the belly must be fomented with warm water, and emollient clysters given three or four times a day. After the violence of the disease is over, the body should still be kept open with mild purgatives, as manna, senna, rhubarb, or the like. If great weakness and dejection of spirits, or night sweats, with other symptoms of a coa- aumption, should ensue, we would advise the patient to continue the use of the Peruvian bark, with the elixir of vitriol, and to take frequently a glass of generous wine. The quantity of wine allowed ought to be in propor- tion to the age of the patient, the violence of the febrile symptoms, the degree of debility that exists, or the tendency there is to pu- trescency. These, together with a nourishing diet and riding on horseback, are the most likely means for recovering his strength. The quinsy, being a local disease, is gene.- rally caught by exposing the throat to a draught of cold air. Many people are sure to be troubled with this complaint if thev stand orKAB EAB [ 378 ] sit near an open window, or continue for any length of time iu a room lately washed. There is not a readier or more certain way to catch a quinsy than sitting near an open window in a carriage, especially during the night, or when the weather is cold or damp. See also Throat, Inflammatoky Sobe. B. BABBIT : To Carve. This is performed nearly in the same manner as directed for a Hare, dividing the back into two pieces, which, with the legs, are the most esteemed parts. BABBIT: To Collar. Bone a rabbit, and wipe it well; sprinkle it with port or white wine, and a little garlic vinegar. Make a farce with the liver and lights, with bacon ; spread it upon the rabbit; roll it up, with the head looking back, which must not be boned. Cover the bottom of a stewpanwith bacon, and put in a little fine ale or as much stock; bruise the bones, and add carrots, turnips, onions, parsley, sweet herbs, and spices ; simmer slowly for two hours, and reduce part of the glaze to braise, and, to make the sauce, add the blood. If left untouched it may be larded and roasted, as it will keep very well for a week in a cool place under a charcoal cover (but not in too strong an air), or in the braise it was cooked in longer, which will make nice soup, mixed with any vegetable or meat stock ; or use it for dressing ragoiits, curries, or mock venison, coUops of ox heart or mutton. BABBIT GIBELOTTE. Cut a rabbit into pieces as nearly of a size as possible; make a roux with ^ lb. of butter and two dessert-spoonsful of flour, and when it is of a good colour put in the rabbit to brown ; add a quart of good stock, and half the quantity of white wine; stir till it boils, then put in some champignons, streaked bacon (previously browned), a bunch of parsley, scal- lions, a little thyme,'and a bay leaf; set the whole on a brisk fire to reduce the liquor, and season with salt and pepper to the taste. Toss up about thirty small onions in a little butter, and add them, with some bits of eels, to the above when three parts done. Carefully remove all fat, take out the herbs, and serve. BABBIT LOAF. Take a double mould, butter, and fill the spaces round the smaller one with a rabbit quenelle, and place your mould in the bain-marie to simmer. When the farce is sufficiently done turn it out on a dish, taking care no water gets into it; put into the space left by the smaller mould the brains, small fillets, and kidneys, lightly fried ; mix some Espagnole with half a glass of champagne and a fumet of game ; reduce this, and pour it over the contents of the loaf; glaze the exte- rior, and serve. BABBIT, MINCED. Take the remains of a roasted rabbit, cut off all the meat, and mince it vvith a little roast mutton ; then break the bones of the rabbit into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a slice of butter, some shallots, half a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, and basil; give these a few turns over the fire, and then shake in a little flour ; moisten with a glass of red wine and the same quantity of stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour strain it off, and put in the minced meat, adding salt and coarse pepper; heat the whole without boiling, and serve hot. Garnish with fried bread. BABBIT PIE. Bruise in a mortar 4 ozs. of bacon, with the livers, pepper, salt, a little mace, parsley chopped small, chives, and a few leaves of sweet basil; make the whole into a paste, and cover the bottom therewith ; lay in two rabbits cut in quarters, and over them some slices of bacon ; put on the lid, and set the pie in the oven. It will take two hours. When done take out the bacon and the fat, and if it wants gravy pour in some boiling hot. BABBIT PIE, BAISED. Cut your rabbits in pieces, put them in a stewpan, with a piece of fresh butter, lemon juice, pepper, salt, parsley, thyme, shallots chopped very fine, and a little pounded mace. When the pieces of rabbit are about half done lay them in a dish, and when cold raise the crust; put light forcemeat at the bottom, the rabbit upon it, and more forcemeat upon the top ; cover it, and put it in a moderate oven to bake gently. When done take off the cover, and add a ragout of sweetbreads, cocks' combs, &c., and serve. BABBIT, PBESEBVED. Having boned a rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham ; season it well inside and out, roll it up, beginning with the legs, make it tight, and tie it; put it into a stewpan, with some oil, thyme, bay leaf, basil; set these on the fire till done enough, but without boiling. When sufficiently done take out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then cut it into small pieces, which put into bottles; fill them with oil, and cover with wet bladder. BABBIT PUDDINGS OF BICHELIEU. Prepare for them exactly as for quenelles, only useKAB [ 379 ] RAB instead of panada the proper quantity of roasted potatoes ; spread a little of this farce, about five inches long, three inches broad, and half an inch thick, upon a cover, from which it may be slipped into a saucepan; lay upon the middle of it a salpicon that the farce will cover; dip a knife in hot water, raise the farce over with it, and shape it into puddings ; butter the bottom of a saucepan, heat the cover, and slip in the puddings ; pour boiling stock over, and let them simmer without touching one another. Let them cool, dip in egg, crumb, and fry, or do them over hot cinders on a gridiron. Serve in any nice sauce, or an oyster or mush- room ragout, or glaze them after they are poached, and serve them in a rich brown butter or clear gravy sauce. RABBIT, ROASTED. A young rabbit will take thirty, and a full-grown one will tal^e forty minutes to roast before a clear fire. On laying it down baste it with butter, and dredge it slightly ■with flour. While roasting boil the liver with some parsley, and when done chop both together, putting one-half melted butter, and keeping the other for garnish. Split the head, and lay one half on each side of the dish. Serve it with the same sauce as for a hare. A large young rabbit stuffed eats very much like hare. RABBIT, SALAD OF. Take some crumb of bread, and it cut into small pieces the same as you cut bacon for larding; fry it in butter, let it be a nice colour, and then drain it. Take the rem^ains of a rabbit that has been roasted, cut the meat into slices, and arrange it in the dish for table upon the fried bread ; add two anchovies cut very small, and well washed, some capers, and some small white onions well boiled, the whole tastefully inter- mixed ; season with salt, coarse pepper, and vinegar. The seasoning is not usually added until the rabbit is placed upon the table. RABBIT SKINS. To prepare these skins so that they may be dry, flexible, and devoid of unpleasant smells, they should be treated as follows :—Take the skin as fresh as possible, and having mixed a sufficient quantity of salt and water till it will bear an egg, saturate it with alum ; put your skin into this blood warm, and let it lie and soak twenty-four hours ; then take it out, and having tacked it upon a board (the fur inwards), scrape the skin, and a thin mem- brane will come off; then, having warmed up the pickle again, put your skin into it a second time, and let it remain five hours more; after which take it out and nail it upon a board to dry (fur inwards), and then rub it with pumice-stone and whiting. Hare and other skins may be prepared in the same way. They are always in best condition for preparing in the winter. RABBIT SOUP. Cut an old rabbit into pieces, put them in a quart of water, and boil well; take out all the bones, and beat the meat in a marble mortar as for potting ; add a little salt, mace, and white pepper to your taste ; stir them into the liquor the rabbit was boiled in, with the addition of a little cream. The meat of the whole rabbit is too much for one quart: query, would it not be enough for two? RABBIT, STUFFING FOR. Suet and bread crumbs equal parts; season with sweet herbs, such as marjoram, winter savory, &c., and a large proportion of minced parsley, shallots, nutmeg or cloves, pepper, and Salt. Bind with egg- RABBITS: To Boil. Truss them short, lay them in warm water for ten minutes, then put them into plenty of cold water, and boil them half an hour. Smother them with white onion sauce, mince the liver, and lay it round the dish. RABBITS : To Broil. Take a couple of young rabbits, cut them up, and put them to steep for a few hours in a little oil, mixed with parsley, leeks, a few mushrooms, and a clove of garlic (all shred fine), salt, and pepper; roll each piece of rabbit in a rasher of bacon, and put them, with a part of the seasoning, into pieces of white paper; butter the paper inside, broil upon a gridiron over a very slow fire, and serve hot in the papers. RABBITS: To Choose. There is no affinity between the hare and the rabbit except in a general resemblance. If the latter is old, the claws will be long and rough, and gi'ey hairs will appear intermixed profusely in the fur; but if the animal is young the claws will be short and smooth, and the fur clean. The flesh, if stale, will be limber, and have a bluish cast, with a slimy appearance; but if fresh it will feel firm, and look white and dry. Rabbits, whether wild or tame, are always in season. RABBITS : To Fry. Prepare any rabbits that have been dressed, and lay them in a marinade of vinegar and sweet herbs for some hours; drain, and let them dry without wiping. Fry them in butter, and serve hot with fried parsley or crumbs. Remember they only require to be heated through, not to be cooked. RABBITS, CASSEROLE OF. Quarterthem, and lard them or not, at pleasure ; flour and fry them; then put them into an earthen pipkin, with a quart of gravy, a glass of white wine, pepper and salt, sweet herbs, and butter rolled in flour; cover the pan closely, stew half an hour, dish, and pour the sauce over the rabbits, gar- nished with Seville oranges in slices. RABBITS, FRICASSEE OF. Prepare them as in the preceding way, and fry them inRAB KAB [ 380 ] butter till they are ligbtly browned ; put them into a stewpan, with one pint of water, a slice of lemon, an anchovy, a table-spoonful of lemon pickle, a little Cayenne, and salt; stew them over a slow fire till they are done enough; then thicken the gravy with butter and flour, and strain it. Serve up the rabbits with the gravy over them, and garnish with slices of lemon. RABBITS, GELATINE OF. Bone and flatten two young rabbits ; lay forcemeat upon them, with slices of ham, breast of fowl, and omelets of eggs, white and yellow; roll all up tightly, and fasten them; lard the upper part with fat bacon ; blanch and braise them. Glaze the larding, put some gravy to them, and serve them hot. RABBITS, MARINADE OF. Take some cold roasted rabbits, cut them in pieces, trim them nicely, and put them into a marinade. When sufficiently flavoured drain them tho- roughly, put the pieces into a batter, and fry them a nice colour. Serve with fried parsley. RABBITS WITH ONION SAUCE. Cut the rabbits in nice pieces, and stew them gently in a braise, or white in butter, as the most careful boiling hardens them • have ready a rich onion sauce made with cream or stock. This appears to be a primitive and rude seasoning for anything so delicate; it, however, is very good when the ragout, instead of being entirely of onions, is made of a mixture of apples, bread or turnips, and onions. It may also be dressed in a ragout of celery, artichoke bottoms, scorzonera, Jerusalem artichokes, peas, French beans, &c. RABBITS (PoRTPGUESE way). Cut off the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the backs upwards, the two legs stripped to the end, and trussed with a couple of skewers in the same manner as chickens, with the shoulders turned like the pinions of a chicken: lard and roast them with good gravy. If they are intended for boiling they should not be larded, but be served with bacon, greens, and celery sauce. RABBITS, POTTED. Take two or three young, but full-grown rabbits; cut them up, and take off the leg bones at the thigh; season them well with pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt, allspice (all in very fine powder), and put them into a small pan, placing them as closely together as possible. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and carcasses, but take off the meat about the neck ; put plenty of butter, and let the \yhole bake gently. Let it remain in the pan for two days; then put it into small pots, adding butter; the liver should also be put in. RABBITS, PULLED. Half boil your rabbits with an oniony a Uttle whole pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a piece of lemon-peel; pull the flesh into flakes, put to it a little of the liquor, a bit of butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and the liver boiled and bruised; boil this up, shaking it round, and serve. RABBITS. QUENELLES OF. Take the fillets and legs of rabbits, separate the meat from the skin and sinew, pound it thoroughly, and rub it through a quenelle sieve. Take an equal quantity of panada, the same of butter, each pounded separately, and pass through a quenelle sieve ; then pound all three together. In a little time add salt, pepper, and spice, still pounding; add occasionally three yolks and two whole eggs, and when sufficiently pounded make up a ball of it, which put into a saucepan to try if it be properly seasoned. Whip three whites of eggs to a very firm froth, stir it into the farce with a wooden spoon, instead of the pestle, and finish as usual. RABBITS, STEWED. Divide the rabbits into quarters, lard them with large slips of bacon, and fry them; then put them into a stewpan, with a quart of good broth, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. When done dish up and pour the gravy sauce on them, garnishing with sliced lemons. RABBITS, STEWED (with a Beown ob White Sauce). Wash and clean the rabbits well, let them lie for two or three hours in cold water, cut them into joints, wash and dry them in a cloth, dust them with flour, fiy them of a light brown with butter, and stew them in the following sauce:—Brown 3 ozs. of butter in a stewpan with a table-spoonful of flour, a minced onion, and some pepper and salt; add a pint of gravy and the rabbits, stew them till they are tender, and a little before serving stir in a table-spoonful of catsup. When it is wished to dress with a white sauce the rabbits are not fried, but stewed in white stock, which is seasoned with white pepper and salt, and thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour. A few minutes before serving a little cream is added, and a table-spoonful of lemon pickle. RABBITS EN SURPRISE. Stuff two rabbits, roast them, take off the meat from the bones, and chop it fine, with shred parsley, lemon- lemon-peel, beef marrow, a spoonful of cream, and salt; beat the yolks of hard eggs with a little butter iu a mortar; mix the whole together, and stew it five minutes ; lay this on the rabbits where the meat has been cut off, and brown it with a salamander; pour on some good thick gravy, and put some myrtle in the mouth of each rabbit. Serve with the livers boiled and frothed.r 881 ] RAD RAB RABBITS IN SWEET HERBS. Cut two young rabbits in pieces ; put them into a stew- pan, with butter, fried parsley, young onions, ■white shallots, and mushrooms ; pass them over the fire for a quarter of an hour, when they will be done enough. Finish with the juice of a lemon. RACKING is drawing off wine from its lees into another cask previously to fining and bottling it. Under the head Finings we gave the necessary directions for home-made wines ; but we will now give more fall directions for foreign wines, for which we are indebted to a clever little book entitled " The Butler," published by Houlston and Stoneraan. Clarets should always be fined for bottling during the summer months, or from April to September, being then in a belter condition than in winter, and they should be bottled after the full moon. Port wines are best when fined and bottled from September to March, as these deposit their crust better then than if bottled during the summer months. Sherries are not considered so particular, but the summer months are best for bottling. Wines that have been standing some time had better be racked into a fresh cask before fining, or, if thfcy have deposited much lees, these will again mi.x. with the wine, and cause it to fret. Red wines are fined with whites of eggs ; from ten to twelve whites will be required for a pipe in summer, and from twelve to fourteen in winter. Six whites of eggs should be used to a hogshead, and four to a quarter cask. Separate the whites from the yolks, and put them into a very clean pan or pail Draw two or three bottles, or more, of the wine to be fined from the cask, and begin to whisk up the eggs with about half a bottle of it at first, adding other portions until beaten into a strong froth, and the eggs and wine are perfectly mixed; then put a clean stick or " rummager " into the cask tlirough the bung-hole, and stir the wine well about; take out the stick, and pour in the whites of eggs mixed with the wine. Stir the wine in the cask again well with the stick for full five minutes. Rinse the pan or pail in which the eggs were beaten with whatever wine you may have left, and pour it into the cask ; stir again, and after taking out the stick, beat round the bung-hole with a mallet, to disengage the air bubbles and the froth , then bung it up, first covering the bung with a piece of clean cloth. Make a spile-hole about three inches above the tap, and drive in a spile, so as to examine the wine to see if it is in a fit state for bot- tling. In about ten or twelve days aJter the finings are added the wine will be generally found in a fit state for bottling. White wines are fined with isinglass dis- solved in sharp wine, such as hock, or some of the wine to be fined; but the manufacture of finings for white wine constitutes almost a sepa- rate branch of trade, and is prepared by the wine coopers. Three pints of white wine finings will be required for a butt; if stubborn, half a gallon will be necessary. A quart of finings should be allowed for a hogshead, and a pint for a quarter cask. The finings are to be mixed with the wine in the same manner as directed for red wines. After being fined they will require a month to settle before being fit to bottle. In white wines the spile may be left out for a night after the finings are worked in, and those wines that are " harsh " in fining, which is sometimes the case with poor white wines, should have the bung left out to allow the spiiit to evaporate; but old wines should be bunged down immediately. When wines do not clear well the first time rack them into a clean cask, to separate them from the lees, and fine them again as before; or, add to the second lot of finings, whether for white or red, a handful of silver sand, to in- crease their density ; and new or high-coloured red wines may have a handful of salt added to the finings for a pipe. RADCLIFFE'S ELIXIR. This purgative is given in doses of from 1 to 4 drachms, accord- ing to the age and strength of the patient. It is made as follows:—Take socotrine aloes, 6 drachms ; bark and root of cinnamon, zedoary, of each i drachm ; rhubarb, the root, 1 drachm ; cochineal, ^ drachm ; syrup of buckthorn, ^ ozs.; proof spirit, 1 pint; water, 5 ozs. RADISH PODS: To Pickle. Put the pods, gathered when young, into salt and water, for a night; boil the brine, pour it upon them, and cover the jar closely to keep in the steam. When nearly cold make it boiling hot, pour it on again, and repeat the process till the pods are quite green ; then lay them on a sieve to drain, and make a pickle of white wine vinegar, a little mace, ginger, long pepper, and horse- radish ; pour this boiling hot on the pods, and when nearly cold heat it again twice as hot as before, and pour it upon them; tie them closely, and keep them in a dry place. RADISHES WITH BLOND. Boil in some stock and drain your radishes, then put them into a stewpan with veal blond, simmer them for half an hour, add a little nutmeg and verjuice, stir them occasionally, and when the radishes are flavoured and well coloured dish[ 382 1 BAT RAD them; strew bread crumbs over, and brown tbem in the oven. EADISHES IN BROTH. Take some young radishes, pick and scald them, cut them in halves or quarters according to their size, and boil them with a slice of bacon in some stock. In a little time take them out, drain and put them into another stewpan, with con- somme or veal gravy, and a bit of butter I'olled in flour; let them stew gently in this till they are flavoured, of a good colour, and the sauce pretty thick; then serve them. RAGOUT OF GAME. Half roast the game, then divide into joints and pieces proper to help at table, and put them into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of broth, or as much water, any trimmings of meat you have, one large onion with cloves stuck in it, twelve berries of allspice, the same of black pepper, and a roll of lemon-peel. When it boils skim it perfectly clean; let it simmer very gently for about an hour and a quarter if a wild duck, but longer if a larger bird ; then strain off the liquor, and leave the duck by the fire to keep hot; skim the fat off; put into a clean stewpan 2 ozs. of butter, and when it is hot stir in as much flour as will make it a stiff paste; add the liquor by degrees, let it boil up, put in a glass of port wine and a little lemon juice, and simmer it ten minutes ; put the duck into the dish, and strain the sauce through a fine sieve over it. Garnish with sippets of toasted or fried bread. If the poultry is only half roasted, and stewed until just nicely tender, this will be an acceptable bonne louche to those who are fond of made dishes. The flavour may be varied by adding catsup, cuny powder, or any other of the flavoured vinegars. This is an easily prepared side dish, especially ■when you have a large dinner to dress, and coming to table ready carved saves a deal of time and trouble. It is, therefore, an excellent way of serving poultry. &c., for a large party. RAGOtT POWDER. Two ounces of trufH.es, two of dried mushrooms, the peel of a lemon, and the same of a Seville orange grated, half a grated nutmeg, |- oz. of mace, the same of pepper, and 1 drachm of Cayenne. Dry them all well before the fire, pound them to a 'fine powder, add 1 oz. of salt, sift the powder through a sieve, and keep it in a bottle for use. RAGOUT SPICE. See Spices. RAILROAD TRAVELLING. We commend these sensible hints to all our readers, only pre- mising that the middle carriage of the train, and the middle seat of the carriage, is the safest and easiest place :— It is alwaj-s desirable, not only to get to the station several minutes before the train starts, but to make for the carriages as soon as possible, in order to secure a seat with your back to the direction you intend to go. This is a very material point, particularly if you select the second-class carriage, because, with your face the other way, you are exposed to considerable inconvenience from the draught, productive of rheumatism, tooth, face, or earache, &c. Most persons loiter in the waiting-room until the last moment, and when they arrive at the carriages find all the desired seats occupied. Provide yourself with a programme, which you can procure either at the terminus or any of the booking-offices. This will keep you in- formed of the several stations that are suc- cessively reached. Have your ticket always ready at hand, in case you should be called on to produce it or render it up. Have the amount of your fare ready without the necessity for changing. Anything productive of delay should be avoided. Should your journey be a long one, and your intention be to travel by a first-class carriage, bring with you a travelling-cap, and hang jour hat up to the lines placed in the roof. Most persons are apt to doze ; and, if this is indulged in, your hat will be damaged. Should you be sitting in a back seat, and feel sleepy, by all means draw up the glass before you venture to close your eyes. Owing to the great velocity of railroad travelling the draught is always con siderable. Should you travel a long journey in a second- class carriage, it is advisable to take with you an air-cushion to sit on. On some of the lines the inferior carriages are made as uncomfortable as possible, in order to drive people to the first class. Never attempt to jump out in case of accidents occurring : by so doing you are certain to be greatly injured, and probably killed. In your seat you have a chance of escape. Avoid putting your head out of the window. RAIN WATER. We have found from ex- perience that in the south of England, and probably in all other parts, sufficient rain falls on the roof of a bouse to keep its inhabitants supplied with water throughout the year. We have it preserved in^a well, rendered waterproof by Roman cement: it is sixteen feet deep and four feet in diameter. The gutters round the roof of a detached house all communicate by a stack pipe with the well. The water remains perfectly sweet all the year. For the followiug sensible remarks on the subject we are indebted to the " Magazine of Domestic Economy : "— Rain water is valuable in every situation where it can be collected in sufficient abun- dance. In London and in large towns it is apt to be contaminated with soot; but from thisRAI EAI [ 383 ] and other impurities it can be freed by a process hereafter described. Wherever it can be ob- tained pure, or rendered so, it is water in tlie very best form. To the gardener it is all but indispensable; his plants can scarcely be in health -without it; but everything flourishes, particularly the beautiful gems of the parterre and flov^er-garden, if an ample supply of this gift of nature be at his command. The house- wife and laundress are, perhaps, more indebted to it for their immediate comfort than any other persons, because of its great softness, and the facility which it consequently affords to the many important operations in which they may employ it. All other water contains a greater or less proportion of chemical solutions of lime, which render them hard, or, to speak more correctly, tend to decompose soap, and to deposit that mineral matter upon the skin which induces a roughness at the least, if not a liability to chap. Rain water is generally supposed to be un- pleasant to the palate. If, however, it be care- fully collected in the first instance, and properly filtrated, it is found by experience to be the pleasantest water that can be drunk. We were in the habit, some few years since, of visiting a family where the rain from the roofs was caused to pass through a canvas strainer, in texture like that of a cheese-cloth, into the water-butt; there it deposited any impurities which were not caught by the cloth, and every day a few gallons were filtrated by one of the newly invented portable apparatus. The water was perfectly bright and pure ; its flavour (if the term be admissible) was most delicious ; in fact, it was the finest water we ever tasted, not even excepting that of pellucid mountain streams or the lakes. Nothing of the vapid insipidity of common rain water remained, nor will that ever be perceived if the fluid be properly collected and strained. If this meet the eye of a resident of that chalky but most fertile granary of the metro- polis, the Isle of Thanet, at the north-east point of Kent, it will be sufficient to mention a rain- water tank to insure his instant assent to our unqualified assertion, that a greater convenience can scarcely be attached to a homestead. In some parts of Berkshire, also, we shall meet with approvers, because a few tanks are found there; but, with the exception of the two dis- tricts above referred to, the real rain-water tank appears to be scarcely known. It is, therefore, our intention to urge the general adoption of a plan which can be perfected at an expense trifling if compared with the great advantages it secures. The reservoirs or tanks for rain water are generally constructed of a cylindrical form, somewhat resembling a shallow well; they are sunk in the ground, and should be built, with the best bricks, nine inches in thickness. The brickwork will be rendered most secure if it be put together with the best Parker's cement; but good mortar, made up with two or three parts of finely sifted sea-coal ashes, and one part of the very best lime (particularly that from thoroughly burnt limestone), will do extremely well. The internal surface must, however, be accurately and entirely covered with a coating of the cement of at least one-third to one-half of an inch in thickness. From one thousand to five thousand gallons of rain water may thus be collected, and secured from dirt and dust; and if the fluid, in passing into the reservoir, be made to run through a filter, prepared by putting into a deep tub a quantity of well- washed sea or liver sand to the depth of a foot or more, over that a stratum of bruised good charcoal, and finally a layer of clean gravel stones, it will be efl'ectually sweetened, and purified from all extraneous matters. This tub might either be bored at the bottom with an auger-hole, to let the water pass by means of a broad funnel into the tank, or be furnished with a false wooden bottom pierced with holes ; the intervening space, would then be filled with water, which a common tap, passed through a stave just above the true bottom of the tub, could convey away into its underground re- cipient. A tank, we have said, is built in the ground ; the opening at top is always secured either with flat stones or with a brick arched dome, in the centre of which a stone is let in, and fitted in a groove. This stone is movable, and is occa sionally taken up when it is found needful to clean out the tank. But if the purifying filter were employed, the water would be so effectually cleansed that little or no deposit could ever be formed, and it therefore would keep well for a very long period. A few pounds would cover the first expense of a medium-sized tank; and we believe that a sum under ten pounds in the whole would also furnish it with a pump and pipe, by which this purified and salubrious water could be introduced into the dwelling, and be thus always ready to be applied to the several pur- poses of domestic economy to which water, and particularly soft water, is so indispensably re quisite. RAISIN VINEGAR. To every 2 lbs. of Malaga raisins put four quarts of spring water, lay a tile over the bung, and set it in the sun till fit for use. A stone bottle will do as well as a cask. Placing it in the chimney corner, and keeping it there a proper time, will do as well as placing it in the sun.[ 884 1 IIA 1 11AI RAISIN WINE (]). Take the best Malaga raisins, picli out the large stalks, and have your water ready boiled. When cold measure as many gallons as you design to make, and put it into a large tub, that you may have room^ to stir it. To every gallon of water put 6 lbs. of raisins, and let the whole remain fourteen days, stirring it twice in twenty-four hours. When you have strained it off put it into your cask, reserving a sufficient quantity to keep it filled as the liquor works over, which it will often do for two months or more. It must not be closed till the fermentation has ceased Take two gallons of spring water, and let it boil for half an hour; then put into an earthen jar 2 lbs. of sugar and the rinds of two lemons, pour the boiling water thereon, and let it stand covered for four or five days, after which bottle it off. In fifteen or sixteen days it will be fit for use, RAISIN WINE (2). Take 40 lbs. of Malaga raisins in March, cut them slightly, and throw the stalks in two gallons of water ; then, taking this water in part, put the raisins into a cask, with six gallons more of water and a pint of the best brandy; stir it up with a stick once a day for a week ; then close it well up, let it stand a year, and bottle it off. RAISIN WINE (3). To every gallon of water put 5 lbs. of raisins picked from the stalks, and pulled in two ; let them steep a fort- night, stirring them every day ; then pour off the liquor, squeezing the juice out of the raisins. Put the liquor into a clean cask that will just hold it, taking care that it is quite full, and let it stand open till it has done working; then add a pint of French brandy to every two gallons, and stop it up closely. It must stand six months before it is bottled off: in doing this do not draw it too near the bottom of the cask. The first three months of the year are best to make it, the fruit being then new. RAISIN WINE (4). Another method of making this pleasant liquor is as follows :—Take 300 lbs. of Malaga raisins not picked, put them into a hogshead of spring water, with 1 lb. of hops, and let the whole stand a fortnight, stirring it twice a day; then press it into a tub, put into it a large piece of toasted bread spread over with yeast, and let it ferment twenty-four hours; afterwards put the liquor into a cask, where it may work sixty-six days longer; fill it up again as it works over, and when it has ceased let it be well bunged. You may afterwards put eighteen gallons of water upon the raisins for small wine, and in a week press it out. When about two months old bottle it off. RAISIN WINE VINEGAR. After press- ing off the wine lay the fruit in a heap to heat two or three days; then to every 100 lbs. of fruit put fifteen gallons of water; let it stand in tlie tub, stirring it every day till it becomes sour ; then strain it off, put it irito the cask, and ferment it with a toast covered with yeast; lay a piece of salt over the bung-hole, set it in the sun during the summer, and in winter in a warm place. RAISINS are the dried produce of various kinds of grape vines, and come from different countries. From Barbary they come in jars, but Spain exports the finest. The finest raisins are all made near Malaga. In the immediate vicinity the country is ex- tremely rugged, but every spot where it is pos- sible to stick in a plant is cultivated. For about six miles from the town there are few vineyards, in consequence of the rugged state of the country; but beyond that distance almost every hill is covered with vines, the produce of which is all converted into raisins. The grape which produces them is the Large White Muscatel, called Muscatel Gordo; and, as it does not suc- ceed in the interior, all the muscatel raisins are made within six miles of the coast. The Lexia Raisins, which are used for puddings, are made in the interior. For making raisins the gather- ing of the grapes commences about the middle of August, by selecting only such bunches as are ripe ; after a week or two another gathering is made, and so on for a third and fourth time. A place is always reserved in the vineyard free from plants, on which to spread the grapes when gathered ; and they choose a spot where the soil is of the darkest colour, in order to its keeping the full force of the sun's rays during the day, and retaining the heat during night. The bunches are spread out separately on the ground, and never allowed to press upon each other; but before they are spread out the small grapes are picked out, as well as any that may happen to be injured, and the small ones are dried separately. They are only once turned over, and at the end of fifteen days they are generally sufiiciently dry. When they are turned any spoiled ones are picked out. Should they happen to get rain upon them while drjdng the stalks become black or rusty-looking, instead of being of a bright light brown. There are three distinct kinds of raisins. 1. The Muscatel, which are the finest, and are always packed in boxes of 25 lbs., and half and quarter boxes, containing respectively the half and quarter of that quantity. 2. Sun, or Bloom raisins, which are prepared in the same manner as the muscatel, but from a very large, long grape, called Uva larga. These are generally packed in boxes, but sometimes in casks. Those in boxes are called " bunch raisins ;" and the others, which are generally of an inferior quality, are separated from the stalks.RAN RAM [ 385 ] The sun or Lloom raisins generally keep better than the muscatel, and it is, therei'ore, this description which is sent to India. 3. The Lexia raisins are packed in casks or grass mats, called " frails.^' These raisins are of an inferior kind, and require to be dipped in a lye (lexia) of wood ashes, with a little oil, before drying. The raisins in boxes are partly bloom or sun, but principally muscatel. The barrels and frails are chiefly lexias. There are also Denia raisins, Valencia raisins, Belvidere raisins. Sultana raisins, UvcB apyrena (small, yellowish red, without stones), hlack Smyrna raisins, red Smyrna raisins. East Indian raisins (Kishmish, from the small Schiraz grapes). All these dried grapes are used for food, or fermented with water and made into wine. Rape vinacea is the cake left on pressing grapes : it is fermented with water, and distilled for brandy. RAMAKINS. Stew some Parmesan cheese ; then bruise it with some fresh butter, a little water, salt, and an anchovy; boil the whole well, and add as much flour as will make a paste; put this into another pan, with the yolks of twelve eggs; beat up the whites till stiff, and put them to the rest. Fry them until they are brown. RANCIDITY, whether in butter, lard, or other fatty article, arises from its having absorbed oxygen from the air, and thence forming a peculiar acid called the caproic, so named from its resembling in .smell that emitted by the buck-goat (caper). It is worth knowing that soft fats become rancid by exposure to the air much more quickly than do solid fats. Hard butter continues sweet longer than soft butter; and the suety fat of salted beef remains un- tainted a much greater length of time than the soft-fatted parts. All fatty and oily substances may be kept free from rancidity for almost any length of time if the air be totally excluded from them. RANK. In formal dinner parties attention is needed as to the precedence given to the guests, as some are excessively tenacious on this point. Before giving a table of precedence it is necessary to observe that the elder pre- cedes the younger in those of equal rank ; that ladies of all ranks are served before their husbands; that married ladies precede widows, and widows precede spinsters; and that strangers are served first, and the young ladies of the family last. 1. Sovereign's sons 2. Sovereign's brothers 3. Sovereign's uncles 4. Sovereign's grandsons 5. Sovereign's nephews vox-. II. 6. Archbishop of Canterbuiy 7. Lord High Chancellor 8. Archbishop of York 9. Lord Treasurer ] 0. Lord President of the Privy Council 11. Lord Privy Seal 12. Lord High Constable 13. Lord Great Chamberlain of England 14. Earl Marshal 15. Lord High Admiral 16. Lord Steward of the Household 17. Dukes according to their patents 18. Marquises 19. Dukes' eldest sons 20. Earls 21. Marquises' eldest sons 22. Dukes' younger sons 23. Viscounts 24. Earls' eldest sons 25. Marquises' eldest sons / 26. Bishop of London 27. Bishop of Durham 28. Bishop of Winchester 29. Bishops according to their seniority of consecration 30. Barons 31. Speaker of the House of Commons 32. Viscounts' eldest sons 33. Earls' younger sons 34. Barons' eldest sons 35. Knights of the Garter 36. Privy councillors 37. Chancellor of the Exchequer 38. Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster 39. Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench 40. The Master of the Rolls 41. The Vice-Chancellor 42. The Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas 43. Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer 44. Judges and barons of the Exchequer according to seniority 45. Knights Bannerets Royal 46. Viscounts' younger sons 47. Barons' younger sons 48. Baronets 49. Knights Bannerets 50. Knights of the Bath Grand Crosses 51. Knights Commanders of the Bath 52. Knights Bachelors 53. Eldest sons of the eldest sons of peers 54. Baronets' eldest sons 55. Knights of the Garters' eldest sons 56. Bannerets' eldest sons 57. Knights of the Baths' eldest sons 58. Knights' eldest sons 59. Baronets' younger sons 60. Sergeants-at-law 61. Doctors, deans, and chancellors 62. Masters in Chancery 2 c[ 386 ] RAN EAS fi3. Companions of the Batli t:)4. Esquires of the sovereign's body C5. Gentlemen of the Px'ivy Chamber 66. Esquires of the Knights of the Bath 67. Esquires by creation 68. Esquires by office or commission 69. Younger sons of the Knights of the Garter 70. Younger sons of bannerets 71. Younger sons of Knights of the Bath 72. Younger sons of Knights Bachelors 73. Gentlemen entitled to bear arms 74. Clergymen not dignitai'ies 75. Barristers-at-law 76. Officers of the navy 77. Officers of the army 78. Citizens 79. Burgesses 80. Married men and widowers before single men of the same rank. PEECEDENCY AMONG LADIES, 1. Daughters of the sovereign 2. Wives of the sovereign's sons 3. Wives of the sovereign's brothers 4. Wives of the sovereign's uncles 5. Wives of the eldest sons of dukes of the blood royal 6. Wives of the sovereign's nephews 7. Duchesses 8. Marchionesses 9. Wives of the eldest sons of dukes 10. Daughters of dukes 11. Countesses 12. Wives of the eldest sons of marquises 13. Daughters of marquises 14. Wives of the younger sons of dukes 15. Viscountesses 16. Wives of the eldest sons of earls 17. Daughters of earls 18. Wives of the younger sons of marquises 19. Wives of archbishops 20. Wives of bishops 21. Baronesses 22. Wives of the eldest sons of viscounts 23. Daughters of viscounts 24. Wives of the younger sons of earls 25. Wives of the sons of barons 26. Maids of honour 27. Wives of the younger sons of viscounts 28. Wives of the younger sous of barons 29. Wives of baronets 30. Wives of the Knights of the Garter 31. Wives of bannerets 32. Wives of Knights Grand Crosses of the Bath 33. Wives of Knights Commanders of the Bath 34. Wives of Knights Bachelors 35. Wives of the eldest sons of the jo'angcr Bons of peers 36. Wives of the eldest sons of baronets 37. Daughters of baronets 38. Wives of the eldest sons of Knights of the Garter 39. Wives of the eldest sons of bannerets 40. Daughters of bannerets 41. Wives of the eldest sons of Knights of the Bath 42. Daughters of Knights of the Bath 43. Wives of the eldest sons of Knights Bachelors 44. Daughters of Knights Bachelors 45. Wives of the younger sons of baronets 46. Daughters of knights 47. Wives of the Companions of the Order of the Bath 48. Wives of the esquires of the sovereign's body 49. Wives of the esquires of the Knights of the Bath 50. Wives of esquires by creation 51. Wives of esquires by office 52. Wives of younger sons of Knights of the Garter 53. Wives of the younger sons of bannerets 54. Wives of younger sons of Knights of tho Bath 55. Wives of the younger sons of Knights Bachelors 56. Wives of gentlemen entitled to bear arms 57. Daughters of esquires entitled to bear arms 58. Daughters of gentlemen entitled to bear arms 59. Wives of clergymen 60. Wives of barristers-at-law 61. Wives of officers in the navy 62. Wives of officers in the army 63. Wives of citizens 64. Wives of burgesses 65. Widows 66. Daughters of citizens 67. Daughters of burgesses. RASPBERRY CAKES. Gatner some rasp- berries before they are quite ripe ; pick and lay them in a stove to dry ; then beat them in a mortar. Take 1^ lb. of fiue sugar; clarify and boil it to casse; then weigh ^ lb. of raspberiies dried as above, throw them into the syrup, with half a spoonful of white of egg beaten in cream ; stir it carefully, give it a boil, and pour it in moulds or paper cases. RASPBERRY CREAM. Whip some good cream to a hue froth ; beat up fine powder sugar with ripe raspberries, rub this through a sieve, mix it as lightly as possible with the[ 387 ] RAT RAS whipped cream, and lay it carefully in a china howl or in glasses. In the former garnish it with a string of I'ipe I'aspberi'ies. RASPBERRY DUMPLINGS. Take some good puff paste, roll it out, and spi'ead rasp- berry jam over it; roll it up, and hoil it rather more than an hour; cut it into five slices, pour melted butter into the dish, grate sugar round, and serve. RASPBERRY FRITTERS. Grate two Naples biscuits or the crumb of a French roll, and put to either a pint of boiling cream. When this is cold add to it the yolks of four eggs well beaten ; beat all well together with some rasp- berry juice ; drop this in very small quantities into a pan of boiling lard, and stick the fritters with blanched almonds sliced. RASPBERRY ICE. Press the juice from as many raspberries as will yield H lb., put it into a glazed pan, and leave it for four days ; then carefully raise the skin that has fallen on top of it, pour off the juice into another vessel, clarify 1^ lb. of sugar with a pint and a half of water, add the juice, and give them half a dozen boils. If not sufficiently red put in a root of alkanet, which leave in till o'f the proper colour. Strain the preparation through a sieve. When cold put it into the sarbotiere and freeze it. See IcK : To Prepare. RASPBERRY JAM. Mash the fruit, which must be perfectly ripe and dry; then strew over it an equal weight of lump sugar, and half as much of the juice of white currants; boil the whole half an hour over a clear fire, skim it well, and put it into pots or glasses, tied over with paper dipped in brandy. The sooner the fruit is used after gathering the better. RASPBERRY JELLY. Take two-thirds of raspberries and one-third of red currants ; pick them, pi'ess the juice through a sieve into a pan, cover, and place it in a cellar or any other cpol place for three days; at the end of that time raise the thick skin formed at the top, and pour the juice into another vessel; weigh it, put it with half the quantity of sugar into a pre- serving-pan, and set it on the fire. A great deal of scum will rise at first, which must all be taken off. Leave it on the fire for an hour, and then pour a few drops on a cold plate : if it cools of the proper consistence for jellies take it from the fire, and whilst hot pour it into pots. Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are covered. RASPBERRY POSTILLA. This is a pre- paration much in request among the Russians. Put some raspberries into an earthen pan, and set it in a moderately heated oven all night. Next day mash the fruit, press it through a sieve, add thereto about one-fourth of its weight of honey, and set it in the oven for another night. RASPBERRY TART WITH CREAM. Line a patty pan with thin puff paste, lay in some raspberries, and strew some very finely sifted sugar over them; cover them with puff paste, and bake. When done cut the t%,rt open, and put in half a pint of cream, in which have been previously beaten the yolks of two or three eggs, and sweetened with a little sugar. When this is added to the tart return it to the oven for five or six minutes. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Put a quart of raspberries into a quart of the best vinegar, and let them stand a week, stirring them occa- sionally ; then add 1 lb. of loaf sugar, boil slowly twenty minutes, strain, and bottle it. RASPBERRY WINE. Pound the fruit, and strain it through a cloth; then boil as much water as you have of juice, and when cold pour it on the dry fruit, letting it stand five hours, after which strain it again, and mix it with the rest. To every gallon of this liquor add 2^ lbs. of sugar, let it stand in an earthen vessel closely covered for a week, and then tun it into a clean cask; bung it well, and when fine bottle it off. Another way for raspberries, strawberries, or cherries is this :—Bruise the fruit, put it into a linen bag, and press the juice out into one cask ; then drain off the fine liquor into another, and bung it closely for forty-eight hours. In three months it may be bottled. RASPBERRIES, RATAFIA OF. Take three pints of raspberry juice and half a pint of cherry juice; dissolve in these l^lb. of fine sugar, and let it stand some time; then add three quarts of the best brandy, strain it, and when quite clear bottle it. Be careful to keep it well corked. RAT AND MICE POISONS. We extract the following from Beasley's " Diuggists Re- ceipt Book." Such as contain arsenic are placed first, and afterwards several compounds which have been introduced as substitutes for that mineral, which has proved so destructive of human life. If arsenic must be employed, it should be sold mixed with substances which would prevent its being taken by mistake, or insure detection if designedly administered. 1. For Barn Floors. Mix a pint of good flour with as much yellow arsenic as will lie on a shilling; put this in a small heap on the floor, and over this put another pint of good flour unmixed. Draw a track up to the heap with a feather dipped in oil of aniseed and oil of caraway, and sprinkle this over with a little flour. The following is an old rat-catcher's re- ceipt for oils to attract rats :—Two drachms of oil of aniseed, 2 drops of nitrous acid, and 8[ 333 ] RAT RA V grains of musk. Oil of rhodium is also sup- posed to be very attractive to these vermiu. Asafoetida with these oils is also used. 2. Mix a quart of the best oatmeal, 2 ozs. of powdered loaf sugar, 6 drops each of the oils of rhodium, caraway, and aniseed, and J grain of musk. Mix them very perfectly without touch- ing the mixture with the hands. Place in a retired situation six or eight pieces of clean boa)'d, and on each two table-spoonsful of the powder, for a few successive nights, without disturbing the rats. About the sixth night, if tliey are found to eat freely, mix a tea-spoonful of white arsenic with the powder. What remains in the morning should be burnt, avoiding the fumes. 3. White arsenic, 2 ozs. ; carbonate of barytes, 2 ozs.; white sugar, 3J ozs.; rose pink, ^ oz.; oil of aniseed and oil of rhodium, of each 5 drops. 4. Malt flour, 1 lb.; oil of rhodium, 3 drops ; sugar, 2 ozs.; eight cloves ; a table-spoonful of caraway seeds, all beaten in a mortar. Lay it in small parcels where they frequent, for three or four nights, till they eat it freely, then add some arsenic dissolved in spirit of salts. — [Mayer.) 5. Ointment for Rats in Ricks. Mix together 1 lb. of fresh butter free from salt, 1^ oz. of calomel, 8 ozs. of crumb of white bread, 2 ozs. of sugar, 5 drops each of oil of nutmeg and rhodium, and 2 drops of oil of aniseed. To use it make a hole with the arm under the ridge; into this hole insert a stick, and on the middle of it, where it does not touch the rick, put a lump of the ointment. 6. Fob Teaps. Put the same, with 2 or 3 drops of oil of thyme. 7. Hampshire Miller's Rat Powder. Mix 1 oz. of nux vomica in powder with 1 lb. of fresh oatmeal, and add a few drops of oil of rhodium, or what answers better, oil of aniseed, with musk. 8. Philanthrope Muophobon, a French pre- paration so called, consists of one part of emetic tartar to four of farinaceous and other ingre- dients. 9. Put into a flask 2 drachms of phosphorus and 5 or 6 ozs. of water; put the flask in warm water (about 150° Fahrenheit) till the phosphorus is liquefied, pour the contents into a mortar, and immediately add 5 or 6 ozs. of rye meal. When cool add the same quantity of melted fresh butter and 4 ozs. of sugar. 10. Another form of the phosphorous com- pound is—melt 1 lb. of lard in a bottle plunged in water, and heated to J 50° Fahrenheit. In- troduce into it i oz. of phosphorus, and add a pint of proof spirit. Cork the bottle securely after its contents have been heated to 140°, and, taking it out of the water-bath, agitate it briskly till the phosphorus is uniformly diffused ; repeat the agitation occasionally as it cools, and when cold pour off the spirit which has separated (wliich may be reserved for the same purpose), and incorporate with the fatty compound whe;it flour and sugar. Place little lumps of this in the rat-holes, and set some water near for them to drink. 11. Valencia almonds, 1 oz. ; treacle, 2 ozs.: carbonate of barytes, 1 oz.; oil of aniseed, 5 drops ; flour, enough to form a paste. RATAFIA CREAM. Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine leaves in a pint of cream ; then strain it, and when cold add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, with sugar and a large spoonful of brandy stirred into it; scald the whole till thick, and stir all the time. Or, mix half a gill of ratafia, as much mountain wine, the juice of two or three lemons, a pint of cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasant. Beat it with a whisk, and put it into glasses. RATAFIA OF FOUR FRUITS. Take 10 lbs. of very ripe cherries, 2^^ lbs. of rasp- berries, 54lbs. of red, and 2 lbs. of black cur- rants ; pick and mix these fruits together, press the juice from them, measure it, and for every quart of juice take i lb. of sugar and an equal quantity of brandy; dissolve the sugar in the juice, then put in the brandy, 1 drachm of mace, and 2 drachms of cloves ; let the whole stand some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep the bottles well corked. RATAFIA OF SEEDS. Take 3 drachms of each of the following seeds—anise, cumin, fennel, dill, coriander, caraway, and angelica; bruise and infuse them for a month in a gallon of brandy; dissolve 2 lbs. of sugar in a pint of water, and add this syrup at the end of the, above-mentioned time to the infusion ; then filter and bottle it. RATAFIA WITHOUT SUGAR OR SYRUP. Press the juice from some cherries into a pan, and leave it a quarter of an hour; then put it into a lai'ge bottle, with the kernefs, and also some apricot kernels. To this add, if you wish the ratafia a deep colour, the juice of 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of black cherries; put to your juice half or a third of its quantity of the best brandy; then bottle it, and when the fermentation has ceased cork the bottles. If the air is excluded this ratafia will keep for many years. RAVIGOTE. Shred small a little chervil, chives, pimpernel, and tarragon: this latter ought to predominate. The mixture of these articles constitutes the ravigote. Take some veloute, two dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, and a little whole pepper ; make them quite hot, add a bit of. butter and the ravigote, stir till the butter is quite dissolved, and serve.RAV I 389 ] r,ED K.WIGOTE WITH OIL. Miroe the ravigote, and put it into a saucepan, with a ladleful of cold veloute, salt, and whole pepper; stir it well to mix it thoroughly, add two ladles- ful of oil, and mix that well also; then pour in four or five dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, keep stirring it till very smooth, and the meat or fish salad be ready for it to be poured on. RAZOR. Much more information relative to this instrument of torture, if badly sharpened, will be found under the head Shaving. We will here only give a few directions for sharp- ening it. Much depends upon the manner in which the razor is managed. The hone, therefore, ought first to be wiped perfectly clean, after which a few drops of sweet oil must be poured on it. The operator should next place his thumb and forefinger sideways on the part of the heel, in order to take firm hold both of the blade and of its handle : one side of the razor is next to be laid flat across the hone, in such a manner that its shoulder, or the part contiguous to the heel, may touch the nearest part of the stone. The razor is now drawn towards the person somewhat circularly, and with a slight pressure, till he arrives at the point. When such side has been thus passed for a few times the opposite one is to be conducted in a similar manner, till the edge uniformly assumes a wiry appearance. Lastly, both sides are to be moved a few times across the hone from the heel to the point, in order that a perfect regularity may be produced in every part of the edge. The razor, being thus honed, must now be drawn obliquely, from the point to the heel, across a strop that is perfectly flat, and which is furnished with two leathers on the smoothing ; side : after this operation it is fit for immediate I use. It deserves, however, to be mentioned that those boasted powders, or unctuous prepara- I tions for giving a fine edge to razors, consist i! merely of red oxide of vitriol, which is spread [ on the strop by mixing it with a little oil or tallow. REALGAR. See Orpiment. RECEIPT. For all sums of or above two pounds a stamped receipt must be given. Whatever the sum of, or above that amount, the j) receipt stamp required is one penny. The date j of payment and the initials of the person re- II ceiving the money ought to be written on the jj stamp, if an adhesive one. A receipt at the i\ bottom of a bill should be in this form :— Received the above, December 28th, J858. John Nokes. The word " paid," which some payees write it the bottom of their bill, is not a receipt. The proper form of a legal receipt is as follows :— London, Deccmher ^Sth, 1BC8. Received of H. Styles the sum of ten pounds for goods as per account delivered. John Nokes. RED GUM consists of small red spots, usually confined to the face and neck, but in some cases extending to the hands and legs, and even over the whole body, appearing in large patches, and sometimes raised considerably above the surface. Now and then it shows itself in the form of small pustules, which are filled with a limpid, or sometimes with a purulent or yellow fluid. All that is generally necessary in this complaint is to give a little magnesia or some testaceous powder (powder of crabs' claws or oyster shells), according to the state of the bowels, and to keep the child moderately warm, to prevent the rash from striking in upon the first passages, which would be attended with sickness and purging, till perhaps the eruption appear again on the skin. Where the eruption is repelled, and when, in consequence of this, there is sickness at the stomach, or any disposition to fits, some light cordial, such as a few drops of the aromatic spirits of ammonia, wine, or brandy, may be given twice or thrice a day, and the child's feet, or perhaps the whole body, put into warm water. Care is necessary to prevent eruptions from being driven inwards, and, whenever this is the case, by all means to effect their re-appearance. There is another eruption, known by the name of milk blotches, which often puts on a very unpleasant appearance, but which, never- theless, is of an innocent nature ; and it has been observed that those who have been much loaded with them have usually been healthy, and have cut their teeth easily. These, however long they may continue, never excoriate or leave any scar on the parts. They appear first on the forehead, and sometimes on the scalp; and then often extend half way over the face, in the form of large loose scabs, which, as the disorder increases, appear not unlike the dried pustules of the small pox. The rash generally disappears of itself when the child has cut three or four teeth. There are other eruptions to which children are subject, occasioned probably by the irritation of teething, particularly while the double and eye teeth are cutting. These, with some excep- tions, as when there is much fever, only require a proper attention to be paid to the state of the bowels. See Dentition. A slight species of nettle rash is another , eruptive disease to which infants are liable, which in general requires little attention, as it often disappears in a few hours. In all eruptive complaints of infants their taking cold ought to be carefully guarded against, and the belly should be kept open; and, when- ever the eruption strikes inwardly, every meansRED [ 390 ] RHE should be used to reproduce it on the surface of the body. In consequence of some bad quality in the milk of the person who nurses the child, it sometimes happens that an eruption breaks out. RED INK. See Ink, Writing. RED - LEAD, called also minium, is a deutoxide of lead. It is rarely used as a paint, owing to its liability to become black. REFINING. See Distilling. REFRIGERANTS are applications for re- ducing unnatural heat in any part of the body. Cold air, cold water, vinegar and water, solution of acetate of lead, solution of sal ammoniac, are all so employed. Ice is still more powerful, and see Freezing Mixtures. REGIMEN. See Diet. RELISH, KITCHENER'S. Pound finely 1 oz. of black pepper and \ oz. of allspice, with 1 oz. of salt, ^ oz. of scraped horseradish, and the same of eschalots peeled and quartered; put these ingredients into a pint of mushroom catsup or walnut pickle, let them steep for a fortnight, and then strain the liquor. A tea-spoonful or two of this is generally an acceptable addition, mixed with the gravy usually sent up for chops and steaks, or added to thick melted butter. REMITTENT FEVER. See Fevers. REMOLADE. Put some mustard into a basin, and mix it up with some water; add to this a little shallot and ravigote (both shred), six spoonsful of oil, four of vinegar, some salt, and whole pepper; mix them well in, then put in the yolks of two raw eggs, and continue stirring until the sauce is very smooth. It ought to be rather thick. REMOLADE, INDIAN. Pound the yolks of ten eggs to a paste, dilute it with eight spoonsful of oil, put in one at a time, and continue pounding all the while; then add about a dozen berries of allspice, a tea-spoonful of saffron, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, salt, and pepper; amalgamate the whole perfectly, strain it through a bolter, and serve it in a sauce tureen. This sauce, like the preceding, should be rather thick. RENNET (1). As soon as the calf is killed take out the stomach, and scour it inside and out with salt after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain for a few hours, after which sew it up with two large handsful of salt in it. See Calf's Stomach. RENNET (2). Prepare the maw as in the above receipt. On the following day put a handful of hawthorn tops, a handful of sweet- brier, a handful of rose leaves, a stick of cin- namon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoons- ful of salt into two quarts of fresh spring water. Let them boil gently till the water is reduced to three pints, when strain it off, and, when only milk warm, pour it on the maw. Slice a lemon, and add to it; in two days strain it again, and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may be put in also. Take care that it is suffi- ciently salt. If the maw be again salted for a few days, and dried as above, it will be quite as fit for use as before. It should be kept in a cool, dry place. A small quantity of the liquid is sufficient for turning. RENNET WHEY. Warm a pint of milk, but do not let it get too hot, or it will spoil the taste of the whey; wash the salt from a piece of rennet about the size of a crown piece, and put it in the milk. When the milk turns take out the rennet; wash and put it in a cup of water, and it will do to use again to make whey. If you have a rennet in a bottle of wine, two tea- spoonsful of it will make a quart of whey ; but, for a person having fever, it is best to make it without wine. RENNET WINE. Rub the salt from a nicely dried rennet, and cut it up with good wine. If care is taken to fill it up it will last for several years to make cold custards and cheese curds. RESIDENCE. See House, Air, &c. REVIVER. See Black, Reviver of. RHENISH WINES. The district from which we receive the greatest supplies of Rhenish wines in this country is Mount Tonnerre, in the Palatinate. The finest of these is Deidesheim, the whole produce of which is bought up every season by the merchants of Frankfort. From the district of Spire we get the wines oi Roth, Konigsbach, Hocheim, Wein- heivi, Forst, and TJngstein ; and round Mayence are produced the following, which are all wines of the first quality :—Niersteiner, Lauhenlteim, Bodenheim, Oppenheim, NacJcenheim, Gaubisc- heim. Those called Scharlach are made on Mount Scharlachenberg. Leibfrauenmilch, made at Worms, and the Kasterich of Mayence, are held in high repute, and command great prices. The finest wines of this class are produced at Rudesheim, eighteen miles from Sletz: they have more body, strength, and bouquet than the others. Johannisberger is universally admitted to be one of the best, from its choice flavour and perfume, and the absence of the least acidity. Steinberger ranks next: it is a strong wine, and improves by age. The generality of Hocks used in England are grown on the banks of the Moselle, and some are of excellent quality; but they vary very much in that respect. RHEUMATISM. {See Lumbago.) This disease has often a resemblance to the gout. It generally attacks the joints with exquisite pain, and is sometimes attended with iuflamma-RHE [ 3 1 3 RHE tion and swelling. It is most common in the spring and towaixls the end of autumn. It is usually distinguished into acute and chronic, or the rheumatism with and without a fever. The causes of a rheumatism are frequently the same as those of an inflammatory fever, viz., an obstructed perspiration, the immoderate use of strong liquors, and the like. Sudden changes of the weather, and all quick transitions from heat to cold, are very apt to occasion the rheumatism. Very obstinate rheumatisms have likewise been brought on by persons un- accustomed to it allowing their feet to continue long wet. The same effects are often produced by wet clothes, damp beds, sitting or lying on the damp ground, travelling in the night, &c. The rheumatism may likewise be occasioned by excessive evacuations, or the stoppage of customary discharges. It is often the effect of chronic diseases, which vitiate the humours, as the scurvy, the lues venerea, obstinate autumnal agues, &c. The rheumatism prevails in cold, damp, marshy countries. It is most common among the poorer sort of peasants, who are ill clothed, live in low, damp houses, and eat coarse and unwholesome food, which contains but little nourishment, and is not easily digested. The acute rheumatism commonly begins with weariness, shivering, a quick pulse, restlessness, thirst, and other symptoms of fever. Afterwards the patient complains of flying pains, which are increased by the least motion. These at length fix in the joints, which are often affected with swelling and inflammation. If blood be let in this disease it has generally the same ap- pearance as in the pleurisy. In this kind of rheumatism the treatment of the patient is nearly the same as in an acute or inflammatory fever. If he be young and strong bleeding is necessary, which may be repeated according to the exigencies of the case. The body ought likewise to be kept open by emollient clysters or cool opening liquors, as decoctions of tamarinds, cream of tartar, whey, senna tea, and the like. The diet should be light, and in small quantity, consisting chiefly of roasted apples, groat gruel, or weak chicken broth. After the feverish symptoms have abated, if the pain still continues, the patient must keep his bed, and take such things as promote perspira- tion, as wine whey, with solution of the acetated ammonia, &c.:—Take camphor mixture, 1 oz.; solution of tartarised antimony, 20 drops; solution of acetated ammonia, 3 drachms. Mix them for a draught, to be repeated every four or six hours. He may likewise take for a few nights at bedtime, in a cup of wine whey, 1 drachm of the cream of tartar, and i drachm of gum guaiacum in powder. Warm bathing, after proper evacuations, has oiten an exceedingly good effect. The patient may either be put into a bath of warm water, or have cloths wrung out of it applied to the parts affected. Great care must be taken that he does not catch cold after bathing. The chronic rheumatism is seldom attended with any considerable degree of fever, and is generally confined to some particular part of the body, as the shoulders, the back, or the loins. There is seldom any inflammation or swelling in this case. Persons in the decline of life are most subject to the chronic rheumatism. In such patients it often proves extremely obstinate, and sometimes incurable. In this kind of rheumatism the regimen should be nearly the same as in the acute. Cool and diluting diet, consisting chiefly of vegetable substances, as stewed prunes, codled apples, currants or gooseberries boiled in milk, is most proper. Arbuthnot says, " If there be a specific in aliment for the rheumatism it is certainly whey," and adds " that he knew a person subject to this disease who could never be cured by any other method but a diet of whey and bread." He likewise says " that cream of tartar in water gruel, taken for several days, will ease rheumatic pains considerably." In this case the patient may take the dose formerly mentioned twice a day, and likewise a tea- spoonful of the volatile tincture of gum guaiacum at bedtime in wine whey. This course may be continued for a week, or longer if the case proves obstinate, and the patient's strength will permit. It ought then to be omitted for a few days, and repeated again. At the same time leeches or a blistering plaster may be applied to the part affected. What answers better than either of these, in obstinate fixed rheumatic pains, is the im)-m plaster. Cupping upon the part affected is likewise often very beneficial, and so is the application of leeches. Blisters are sometimes employed in this com- plaint, but they appear to be most serviceable in those cases where the disease partakes of the nature of acute rheumatism, or where the pain is fixed in any particular joint; and a repetition of fresh blisters will be preferable to keeping up a constant sore, by stimulating the part with, savin or other ointments, and produce a greater effect upon the disease. Though this disease may not seem to yield to medicines for some time, yet they ought still to be persisted in. Persons who are subject to frequent returns of the rheumatism will often find their account in using medicines, whether they be immediately affected with the disease or not. The chronio rheumatism is similar to the gout in this resjject, that the most proper time[ 392 ] RHU RHE for using medicines to extirpate it is when the patient is most free from the disorder. There are several of our own domestic plants ■which may be used with advantage in the rheumatism. One of the best is the white mustard. A table-spoonful of the seed of this plant may be taken twice or thrice a day in a glass of water or small wine. The water trefoil is likewise of great use in this complaint. It may be infused in wine or ale, or druuk in the form of tea. The ground ivy, camomile, and several other bitters are also beneficial, and may be used in the same manner. No benefit, however, is to be expected from these, unless they be taken for a considerable time. Excellent medicines are often despised in this disease because they do not perform an immediate cure, whereas nothing would be more certain than their effect, were they duly persisted in. Want of perse- verance in the use of medicines is one reason ■why chronic diseases are so seldom cured. The internal remedies most generally recom- mended in chronic rheumatism are sudorifics, and medicines of a stimulating nature which abound in essential oils and resins ; and there- fore volatile alkaline salts, guaiacum, turpentine combined with Cinchona bark, and the like, may be given in any of the under-mentioned forms :—Take oil of turpentine, 1^ drachm; yolk of egg, enough to incorporate; then add com- pound spirit of juniper, 1 oz.; decoction of bark, 5 ozs. Make a mixture, of which take two table-spoonsful every four hours. Or, take guaiacum in powder, 6 grains; antimonial powder, 3 grains; syrup of ginger, enough to form a bolus, to be taken three times a day. Cold bathing, especially in salt water, often cures the rheumatism. We would also recom- mend exercise and wearing flannel next the skin. Issues are likewise very proper, espe- cially in chronic cases. If the pain affects the shoulders an issue may be made in the arm; but if it affects the loins it should be put into the leg or thigh. Persons afflicted with the scurvy are very subject to rheumatic complaints. The best medicines in this case are bitters and mild purgatives. These may either be taken separately or together, as the patient inclines. \ An ounce of Peruvian bark and ^ oz. of rhubarb in powder may be infused in a bottle of wine, and one, two, or three wine-glasses of it taken daily, as shall be found necessai-y for keeping the body gently open. In cases where the bark itself proves sufficiently purgative the rhubarb may be omitted. Such as are subject to frequent attacks of the rheumatism ought to make choice of a dry, warm situation, to avoid the night air, wet clothes, and wet feet as much as possible. Their clothing should be warm, and they should wear flannel next their skin, and make frequent use of the flesh-brush. One of the best articles of dress, not only for the prevention of the rheumatism, but for powerful co-operation in its cure, is fleecy hosiery. When there are any suspicions of the disease being connected with a syphilitic taint a long- continued course of mercui'ial alteratives must be entered upon. RHUBARB. It is well known that the drug called rhubarb is the root of some species of Rheum; but with such jealousy is the traffic in this article guarded, and so difficult of access is the region where it is produced, that no accurate information has yet been obtained as to what or how many different species pi'oduce it. All the species possess the same properties in a greater or less degree; but it is generally believed that R. palmatum, undulatum, PJiaponticum, and australe are those from which the commercial supply is obtained. Rhubarb is produced abun- dantly in the elevated lands of Tartary, Chinese Tartary, Thibet, and Bhotan. It is not culti- vated, but springs up spontaneously wherever the seed has been distributed in places favour- able for germination. The root is not considered fit for use till it is six years old, when it is dug up twice a year—in Tartary in spring and autumn, and in China only in winter. When it is taken up the bark is removed, the root cut in pieces, with holes through them, and hung up to dry upon cords about the tents, or on the horns of sheep. There are four varieties of the root known in commerce. Russian rhubarb is brought by the Bucharian merchants to the frontier town of Kiachta, where an apothecary, appointed by the government, is stationed, and who submits it to a rigid inspection. All that does not pass this examina- tion is burned, while the best is sent overland to Moscow and St. Petersburg, and exported by the Baltic to various parts of the world. Turkey rhubarb is collected by the Chinese Tartars, and sold to the Bucharians, who bring it to Bokhara, Samarcand, and other cities of Central Asia, whence, in the ordinary course of commerce, it passes to the Levant and Constantinople. Chinese rhubarb is of an inferior quality, and imported from Canton. Much of this is, in all probability, from the same source as the Russian ; but its inferiority is attributable to the great care observed by the Russian authorities in the selection. Indian rhubarb is produced in the Himalayas. As an ingredient in pies and puddings, the long, thick leaf-stalks are well known. Rhubarb is justly prized as a mild cathartic, and may be safely administered to children, in- valids, and delicate women, in doses of from 10RIB RHU [ 893 ] to 20 grains, thougb, in irritable, hysterical, and phthisical habits, it is apt to occasion gripes, and to aggravate febrile symptoms. Hence it ought never to be given in the first stage of dysentery, when this invaluable remedy, by premature use, may occasion the most violent pain and inflammation of the bowels; but after the fever is suppressed, and the disease becomes a chronic diarrhoea, small doses of rhubarb will be attended with the best effects. As, however, this medicinal root has a tendency to occasion obstructions of the intestines after copious eva- cuations, it will in most cases be proper to com- bine it with cooling salts, in order to prevent costiveness. Thus 6 grains of the former, and 1 drachm of either Glauber's salt or cream of tartar in a combined state, may be taken with advantage in the evening, and a similar dose in the morning. In short, rhubarb is the only purgative we possess that is at the same time mildly astringent, diuretic, and does not relax the first passages. Besides the utility of the roots, the seeds of such plants as are raised in England possess a considerable portion of the medicinal properties of the former. Its leaves impart an agreeable acidity to soups, similar to that of sorrel. A strong infusion in white wine of pieces of the roots that were not sufficiently thick for drying has been given with great success in the dysenteries sometimes incident to cattle. A marmalade is likewise prepared from the fresh stem by stripping off the bark, and boiling the pulp with an equal quantity of honey or sugar. This, we understand, affords a mild and pleasant laxative, especially for children, to whom it is highly salubrious. Lastly, Professor Pallas in- forms us that a resinous elastic gum, which in the month of August exuded from the leaves and flower-stalks of the Siberian rhubarb on wound- ing them with a knife, bore perfect resemblance to the caoutchouc, or India rubber. By a decoc- tion of this root in alum water the Kirghis im- part a beautiful orange colour to their leather and wool: a similar tint may be given to cloth, and on adding green vitriol a fine olive shade will be the result. It has farther been con- jectured that, with a solution of tin or bismuth, rhubarb would afford a beautiful red dye. RHUBARB: To Bottle. Cut and peel the rhubarb as for tarts, put it in clean dry bottles, cork them, but not tightly, put them in a pan of cold water, and set them on a moderate fire. When the rhubarb changes colour, and begins to shrink a little in the bottles, take them oS the fire, and let them stand till cold; then cork them tightly, and set them in a cool dry place, with the necks downwards, to prevent the rhubarb fermenting. Be careful the oven is not too hot, or the bottles will fly. Cork them tightly when they are quite cold. It is a very good plan to lay a double sheet of brown paper in the oven, and place the bottles on their sides, turning them occasionally. RHUBARB JAM. An excellent jam may be made with two-thirds of red currants to one- third of garden rhubarb: it may also be made with the same proportion of gooseberries before they are quite ripe, and it likewise answers very well with raspberries. One pound of sugar to two of fruit will be found quite sufficient, boiling the fruit three quarters of an hour before the sugar is added, and afterwards till it becomes like pulp or jam. RHUBARB PUDDiNG. See Apple Pud- ding, Boiled (1). RHUBARB TART. Let the stalks be of a good size, take off the thin skin, and cut them into lengths of four or five inches ; lay them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water, cover with another dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour on a hot hearth, or in a block-tin saucepan. As soon as cold make it into a tart. When tender the baking of the crust will be sufficient; or you may cut the stalks into bits the size of gooseberries, and make your tart the same as gooseberry tart. RIBBON is woven in pieces thirty-six yards long. The inferior kinds are made of Bengal silk; the best of Italian. Pearl-edge is pro- duced by projecting some threads of the weft. The French ribbons were made formerly in pieces of twelve ells. Their length is now the same as that of the English. French fancy ribbons are generally made and sold in gar- nitures, that is, a broad and a narrow piece taken together of the same pattern. Sarsenet and Lutestring Ribbons are made by the simple and regular alteration of the warp and shoot, as in plain cloth, called technically ground. Lutestrings are sarsenet above the width of 12d., and in general of stouter make. Several threads of the warp pass through each dent or tooth of the sleigh, according to the fine- ness of the silk or intended quality of the ribbon. In a lutestring the dents are in the proportion of about 40 to the inch—the shoots about 90, varying with the quality. By grogram (French gros-grains) is meant a variation in the texture, caused by the warp-threads passing over two of the shoots at once, taking up one only. This often finishes the edge of a ribbon. Organzine dyed soft is used for the warps of all ribbons except gauzes, from its greater strength and compactness of fibre ; tram and single-dyed souple for the shoot of sarsenet, and sometimes of satin. In Satin the glossy appearance is given by threads of the warp being laid chiefly on the surface, each thread of the warp being crossedRIB RIB [ 394 ] by the shoot only once in five times, as in 8-lisse or the superior satins. French satins were formerly made from 6-lisse to 10-lisse. Satins are woven with the face downwards, as it is easier to raise the harness connected with 5 or |- of the warp each time that the shuttle passes than to raise g or ^. The number of dents and shoots to the inch is nearly the same for satin as for lutestring. The threads between each dent are generally put in odd numbers, 9, 11, 13, which is supposed to fall in better, and produce a better surface. The French satins are lighter in make than the English; but they have a peculiar richness and lustre, owing to their superior silk. French ribbons in general have less weight of silk than the English. The transparency of Gauze is produced by the kind of thread of which it is made—the fine hard- twisted marabout, which leaves the interstices clear. One warp-thread only passes between each dent of the sleigh, and these are closer together, in general, than lutestrings and satins : in fine gauzes 86 or more dents, and from 90 to 120 shoots to the inch. The plain gauze ribbons made at Coventry, called China gauzes, are chiefly those used for mourning—white, black, and lavender, with satin or ground stripes. Floret Gauzes and Taffeties are light ribbons made of organzine warp-shot with hard or marabout silk. There is considerably less labour in these than in other gauzes. They are largely manufactured at Bedworth. Loves are inferior gauzes made of organzine, and singles dyed hard, or upon the gum. Petershams, or Pads (derived perhaps from the French padou, a coarse ribbon used by tailors, made of linen and silk, often stiffened by gum), are stout, thick ribbons used for the waist. The sleighs employed for making plain ribbons {taffetas) in France have about 51 dents to the inch, for satin 54, for gauze 73-78-84, for velvet 36-42. These ribbons all belong to the plain trade. The fancy trade comprises the manufacture of the same fabrics figured, under the heads of figured sarsenets, satins, gauzes, and pads. Tlie figures ai-e frequently produced in a different colour from the ground by the mixture of colours in the warp, the colours being warped separately. In the intervals of the figures the coloured threads are carried along the under side of the ribbon. It is said to have a double or treble figure according to the number of colours passing through each dent. In some ribbons, gauzes in particular, these threads are cut away by the scissors after the ribbon is made. This is called clipping. A change of colour in the shoot is effected by the use of different shuttles. In brocades the figure is made by small additional shuttles thrown in partially across the ribbon as the pattern may re- quire, the connecting threads of shoot being clipped off. By damask is meant the laying of the warp over the shoot to form the figure in the manner of satin. The patterns are some- ^ times geometrical, but more frequently com- binations of leaves, sprigs, or flowers. In the superior French ribbons groups and wreaths of flowers are executed with the richness and variety of hand embroidery. The French are continually introducing novelties in colouring and in texture. In some of these the ribbon is laid over with a slight covering like crape, by means of a warp of hard silk woven in loosely over the other. In another the ribbon is made, by stamping, to assume the appeai'ance of lace. Some fancy ribbons are of plain texture, but varied in colouring. They are shot or woven in shades, sti'ipes, bars, or cheques, called in trade plaits. These last, which require the shuttle to be changed very frequently, are still made in the single-hand loom. In shot ribbons the warp and the shoot are of different colours. A pearl-edge is frequently given to all kinds of ribbon except the narrower widths of sarsenet. This is formed by the shoot passing over horse- hairs placed outside the warp parallel with it, and raised in like manner by the lisses. As the hairs are dra^vn out the silk is left in loops at the edge. Many varieties of ornamental edges, as scallop, fringes, &c., are produced hy draivini/ in. The shoot in this case stops short of the edge of the ribbon, catching in an additional thread of silk, sometimes of a different colour, which it draws in its place, and which is delivered from a bobbin at the back of the loom, and is in a manner darned into the ground of the ribbon. Clodding is a peculiar management in the dyeing, by which a change of hue is produced in the same thread of silk. The silk, already warped, is tied up, and wound closely round with packthread at regular intervals of more or less than an inch, so that the intermediate spaces only are penetrated by the dye. In one species of fancy ribbon, called chine, the figures are printed or painted on the warp after it is prepared for the loom, and afterwards woven in by the shuttle; others are embossed after the mode of the Parisian Chandelier. Ribbons are watered by passing two pieces together between two cylinders, one of which has a heater within it. The irregular pressure of the inequalities of the two surfaces of silk against each other produces a wavy appearance. Satins are soft and flossy when taken out of the loom : to smooth and stiffen them they areRIC ETC [ 395 ] calendered, or pressed between heated steel cylinders, and afterwards dressed, or passed over a small cylinder covered with flannel, which is moistened with a size made from buffalo hides, and then over a large one of heated steel. Gauzes also are dressed, and sometimes even lutestrings. The French goods are in general better dressed than the English. The Br.ocKiNG of the finished ribbons, or the winding them on cylindrical pieces of wood, is generally done at the warehouse of the manu- facturer. Galloons and Doubles ai'e strong thick ribbons, principally black, used for bindings, shoe-strings, &c. The narrow widths are called galloons; the broader, doubles. Italian silk is used in making the best qualities only, Bengal for the commoner. They are manufactured at Spitalfields, at Reading, in Devonshire, in the power-looms of Manchester, at Derby, and other places. There is a considerable exportation of these goods, as there is likewise of the produce of the steam ribbon-looms. Ferrets are coarse narrow ribbons shot with cotton, used for similar purposes. Ribbon Velvets are manufactured in Spital- fields and at St. Etienne: they are also made at Crefeld, in Rhenish Prussia, which has long been a principal seat of the velvet manufacture. In gold and silver ribbons a silk thread of similar colour is wound round by a flattened wire of the metal, afterwards woven. Lyon was particularly celebrated for its fabrics of this kind.—(Penny Cychprndia.) RICE {Oryza sativa) is a native of the East, according to Linnaeus of Ethiopia, and to others of India; but it is now spread over the tropical and subtropical regions of both hemispheres. It may almost be asserted that three-fourths of the population of the known world exist on this grain, so that even wheat itself is not more valu- able to the human race. The plant is annual, and varies in height from one to six feet accord- ing to the variety, of which there are no less than twenty enumerated. Besides being culti- vated in Asia, Africa, and America, it has long been introduced to the countries on the north shore of the Mediterranean ; but although cer- tain varieties are cultivated with success in Turkey, Greece, Italy, and Spain, none of the produce equals those of Carolina and Bengal. Some attempts have been made to grow it in Central Europe, Russia, Holland, and even in England, but without any beneficial results. The plant delights in wet, marshy situations, and the rice grounds are therefore in low, flat- lying countries, where water is abundant, and irrigation can be practised when necessary. The seed of the plant, deprived of its husk, is the rice of commerce : before it is husked it is called paddy. As an article of food rice is highly nutritious, easy of digestion, and well suited for weak stomachs and convalescents: being wholly free from laxative properties, it is well adapted to cases of weak bowels in which there is a tendency to diarrhoea. Although it con- stitutes the principal food of a great portion of the human race, with us it is more used as a luxury than an aliment: it is generally employed made into puddings, cakes, jellies, and soups, or boiled with milk, and eaten with sugar, pre- served fruits, or other adjuncts. Simply boiled in water till it is quite soft, it has of late years come into more general use as an accompani- ment to meat instead of potatoes, and the repeated failure of that crop tends to increase its consumption in that form. Carolina rice was found by Braconnot to contain 85 07 per cent, of starch; 3-60 of gluten; Owl of gum; 0-29 of uncrystallisable sugar; 0'13 of fixed oil; 4-80 of vegetable fibre; 5 00 of water, and 0 40 of saline substances. It is the small quantity of gluten that prevents the conversion of rice into bread; and here we see the wisdom of an all-bountiful Providence, in supplying to those people living in tropical climates an ali- ment that can be prepared without much exertion or labour of any kind, an earthen pot and a small fire being sufficient to enable the Indian to boil his rice and enjoy a meal, which he adroitly eats with his fingers, and which involves the exertion neither of grinding, making, nor baking, which the inhabitants of colder climates have to undergo. Besides being used as food, there are other economical purposes to which rice is applied. In Nepaul a spirit is distilled from the grain, and a beverage, called by the natives phaur, very much resembling our ale, and procured nearly in the same manner. Although the laws of the Birmans and Siamese forbid wine or intoxicating liquors, they make a spirit from rice, which they call lau. Two kinds of fer- mented liquor are prepared from rice by the natives of Java. The first, called Iddelc, is made by first boiling and stewing the rice, with a ferment called razi, consisting of onions, black pepper, and capsicum, and mixing the whole into small cakes, which are daily sold in the markets. After frequent stirring the mixture is rolled into balls, which are piled upon each other in a high earthen vessel, and, when fer- mentation has commenced, the badek exudes, and is collected at the bottom. The remainder, after fermentation is completed, has a sweet taste, and is sold as a dainty in the markets under the name of tdfe. Brom is the second kind, and is made from ketan, or glutinous rice. It is boiled in large quantities, and being stirred with razi, remains exposed in open tubs tillRIG RIG [ 896 ] fermentation takes place, when the liquor is poured off into close earthen vessels. It is generally buried for several months in the earth, by which means the fermentation is checked, and the strength of the liquor is increased: it is sometimes made strong by boiling. The colour varies from brown to red and yellow, according to the ketan employed. Brom kept for several years is considered excellent by the natives, and is very intoxicating. Saki is the name of the kind of beer which the Japanese prepare from rice : it is tolerably clear, and not a little resembles wine, but has a very singular taste, and cannot be considered pleasant. It is drunk in every tavern, and at meals, as beer and wine are by Europeans ; but before being drunk it is always warmed in a common tea-kettle, from which it is poured into flat tea-cups made of lackered wood, and in this manner it is drunk warm, and in a very short time heats and inebriates; but the intoxication vanishes in a few minutes, leaving behind a disagreeable headache. There are different sorts of wines made from rice by the Chinese, which are yellow, red, white, or pale colour. The most highly esteemed is that called " mandarin." This wine is so strong that it will keep for a great many years, or, as some say, for ages. Within the empire it is principally consumed among the higher orders, who can afford to buy it, and when exported it sells very dear. This wine is considered exceedingly wholesome. Some of the rice wines are so highly perfumed, and so odoriferous, that on opening a bottle the air of an apartment becomes quite fragrant. The lees are distilled, and yield a strong and agree- able kind of spirit, like brandy, which is called shou-choo, sau-tchou, sam-tchoo, and sam-su. The straw of rice serves to make straw plaits for women's bonnets. RICE AND APPLES. Core as many nice apples as will fill the dish, boil them in a light syrup, and prepare J lb. of rice in milk, with a little lemon, citron-peel, sugar, and salt; put some of the rice in the dish, and then put in the apples ; fill up the intervals with rice, and bake it in the oven till it is a fine colour, or glaze it. RICE, BAKED OR BOILED. Wash in cold water 6 ozs. of the best rice, put it in a quart stewpan three parts filled with water, set it on the fire, and let it boil five minutes ; pour away the water, and put in one quart of milk, a roll of lemon-peel, and a bit of cinnamon ; let it boil gently till the rice is quite tender : it v?ill take at least one hour and a quarter. Be careful to stir it every five minutes ; take it off the fire, and stir in li oz. of fresh butter; beat up three eggs on a plate, with a salt-spoonful of nutmeg and 2 ozs. of sugar; put it into the pudding, and stir it till it is quite smooth ; line a pie dish big enough to hold it with puff paste, notch it round the edge, put in your padding, and bake it three quarters of an hour. This will be a nice firm pudding. If you wish it to eat more like custard add one more egg and half a pint more milk. It will be better a little thinner when boiled : one hour will boil it. If you like it in little puddings butter small tea-cups, and either bake or boil them : half an hour will do either. You may vary the pudding by putting candied lemon or orange - peel minced very fine, or dried cherries, or 3 ozs. of currants or raisins, or apples minced fine. If the puddings are baked or boiled serve them with white wine sauce, or butter and sugar. RICE BEIGNETS.. Boil the rice with ver^ little water, and beat it in a mortar, adding proper seasoning and eggs, as in the foregoing receipt, and finish exactly in the same way. RICE BISCUITS. Take the grated rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggs, the yolks of six, i lb. of rice flour, 10 ozs. of powder sugar, 2 ozs. of apple, the same of apricot marmalade, and 2 ozs. of orange flowers. Pound the marmalade and orange flowers together, then add the whites of eggs whipped to a snow ; beat the yolks with the sugar for a quarter of an hour, put them to the rest, and when well mixed in add the lemon-peel and rice flour. Work the whole together, pour the preparation into paper cases, bake them in a moderate oven, and glaze them. RICE BLANC-MANGER. Put a tea-cupful of whole rice into the least water possible till it almost bursts, then add half a pint of good milk or thin cream, and boil it till quite a mash, stirring it the whole time it is on the fire, that it may not burn ; dip a shape in cold water, and do not dry it; put in the rice, and let it stand until quite cold, when it will easily come out of the shape. This dish is much approved of. It is eaten with cream or custard, and preserved fruits. Raspberries are best. It should be made the day before it is wanted, that it may get firm. This blanc-manger will eat much nicer flavoured with spices, lemon- peel, &c., and sweetened with a little lump sugar. Add them with the milk, and take out the lemon-peel before you put in the mould. RICE BREAD. Take 1 lb. of rice, and let it simmer in two quarts of water till it is quite tender. When it is of a proper warmth mix it thoroughly with 4 lbs. of flour, adding yeast and salt the same as for other bread (the proper quantity of yeast to be used is about four spoonsful); knead it well, and then set it to rise before the fire. A portion of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the riceRIG RIO [ 397 ] should require more water it must be added, as some rice swells more than another. RICE CAKE. Take 6 ozs. of ground rice, C ozs. of flour, f lb. of fine sugar sifted, and nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; mix all well together, grate in the rind of a lemon, and bake it well half an hour. RICE CHEESE. Boil 1 oz. of rice as thick as hasty pudding in rather less than half a pint of milk (new); pour it hot on 1^ oz. of butter and the same weight of Lisbon sugar, mixing all well together; let it stand till* cold, then add one whole egg and the yolk of another, and a little white wine. RICE CHEESECAKES. Boil J lb. of rice in three quarts of milk till tender; then put in four eggs well beaten, ^ lb. of butter, half a pint of cream, 6 ozs. of sugar, and a little rose water, with a little grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon; beat the whole together, put it into crusts raised for the purpose, and bake them on tins. Some currants and brandy may be added. RICE CREAM. Mix some rice flour with half a glass of cold milk, then by degrees add a pint more, also cold, and put it with a bay leaf into a saucepan; set it on a slow fire for an hour and a half, then strain and flavour it with orange-flower water, sweeten to your taste, and serve it hot. It should be stirred frequently whilst boiling. Eggs may be added if you think proper. RICE, CROQUETTES OF. Wash and scald i lb. of rice, put it into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon shred small, J lb. of pow- der sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped orange flower, 1 oz. of butter, and half a pint of milk; set these on the fire, and when the rice is quite soft add the yolks of four eggs ; stir them in over the fire, but do not let them boil; pour the preparation on a large tin or slab, spread it equally, let it cool, and then divide it into small equal parts; roll these into balls, dip them into an omelet, and then into bread crumbs, and fry them in a very hot pan. As soon as the croquettes are of a nice colour drain, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and serve them. RICE, CURRIED. Fry some onions a good brown, and stew them in water or stock; strain and rub them through a cullender, return them into the soup, and add a sufiicient quantity of curry powder: let it boil and incorporate. Have no more than will boil the rice, and be certain it boils when the rice is put in. Cook the rice without stirring, adding lemon acid and salt. Serve it with roasted or grilled meats, poultry, or fish. If water is used it will require a large piece of butter, or top-pot, which ought to be put in as it softens. RICE CUSTARD PUDDING. Boil two spoonsful of rice flour in a quart of milk, sea- son with a few bitter almonds, sugar, and salt, or with lemon juice and zest; add the yolks of four eggs, and stir it over the fire till it thickens. Sheet a dish, bake, and sift sugar over; or boil it in a basin or cup, turn it out, and serve hot or cold, with a cream or caudle sauce. If made of ground rice and rasped bitter almonds, it will taste as if made of bitter almonds altogether. RICE CUSTARDS WITHOUT CREAM. One tea-spoonful of rice flour, one pint of new milk, the yolks of three eggs, a table-spoonful of ratafia (or two or three laurel leaves boiled in), and sugar to your taste. Mix the rice till very smooth, and stir it in the eggs with boiling milk until thick. Arrowroot is better than rice. RICE DUMPLINGS. Wash and pick a pint of rice; boil it in water till it is soft; have some apples pared and cored whole, fill the holes with sugar, cover them over with the rice, and tie each one separately in a cloth. Boil them till the apples are done. RICE FLUMMERY. Boil a pint of new milk with a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon ; then mix just sufiicient rice flour with a little cold milk as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten according to taste, and flavour with a little powdered bitter almonds; boil it, taking care not to let it burn, and pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When the flummery is cold turn it into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard all round, or serve with sweet sauce in a boat. RICE FRITTERS. Boil the rice in milk, with some powder sugar, orange-flower water, a pinch of cinnamon powder, and a little butter. When quite soft put to it a basin of yolks of eggs, and pour it into a pan to cool. Make your preparation into balls about the size of an egg, dip them in egg, fry them, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. RICE GLUE. See Cement, Japanese. RICE, GROUND (1). Stir into ^Ib. of ground rice a pint and a half of new milk; put it into a saucepan, and keep stirring it till it boils ; then add 3 ozs. of melted butter, the same quantity of sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a spoonful of grated lemon-peel; mix all well, and when cold add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and the white of one, a glass of ratafia, and half a glass of orange-flower or rose water. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste for three quarters of an hour. Before serving strew over the top grated loaf sugar. RICE, GROUND (2). Mix till quite smooth a small tea-cupful of ground rice and a quart of milk ; stir over the fire till it boils, and let it boil for three minutes; put it into a basin,EIC RIO [ 398 ] and when nearly cold add the well beaten yolks of six, and the whites of two eggs, with a tea- cupful of sweet wine or a glass of spirits ; put it into a buttered dish, and bake it for three quarters of an hour, or for one hour in a Dutch oven, in the same way as a marrow pudding is done. Any sort of preserve may be put into the dish, and a sweet sauce may be served with it. EICE, GROUND (8). Boil in a pint of milk ^ lb. of flour of rice, with two table-spoonsful of rose water and half the peel of a lemon; stir it till thick, take it off the fire, and mix J lb. of butter, half a grated nutmeg, the well-beaten yolks of four, and the whites of three eggs ; sweeten it with brown sugar, pick out the lemon-peel, and boil it in a buttered basin, which must be completely filled. Serve with a sauce made with a glass of white wine boiled in melted butter, and sweetened with brown sugar. EICE, GROUND (without Eggs). Weigh 6 ozs. of rice, 6 ozs. of brown sugar, and 3^ ozs. of fresh butter; break the butter into small bits, wash the rice in several waters, put all into a pudding dish, and fill it up with good, milk : let it soak some hours. Bake it in a moderate oven for nearly two hours, and as the milk wastes fill up the dish with more till the rice be swelled and soft; then let it brown. RICE JELLY. Boil 4 ozs. of rice flour, with I lb. of lump sugar, in a quart of water till the whole becomes glutinous; then strain off the jelly, and set it to cool. This is very nutritious for weak stomachs. RICE MILK. Allow 1 oz. of rice for each person ; wash it thoroughly in warm water; set some milk on the fire, and when it boils put in the rice; continue to boil it over a slow fire, stirring often for two or three hours; add salt and sugar according to taste, and cinnamon. RICE AND MILK. To every quart of good milk allow 2 ozs. of good rice; wash it well in several waters; put it with the milk into a closely covered saucepan, and set it over a slow fire. When it boils take it off, let it stand till it be cold, simmer it about an hour and a quarter before sending it to table, and serve in a tureen. RICE MUFFINS. Pour a quart of milk on four heaped spoonsful of rice flour, stir it well, and put in a little salt and wheat flour to make it a proper thickness, two eggs, and two spoonsful of yeast. Allow it four hours to rise, and bake in rings; or thin it, and bake as batter RICE PANCAKES.' Boil ilb. of rice in a small quantity of water until quite a jelly. As soon as it is cold mix with it a pint of cream, eight eggs, and a little salt and nutmeg. Make 8 ozs. of butter iust warm, and stir it .with the rest, adding to the whole as much butter as will make the batter thick enough. The pancakes must be fried in as small a quantity of lard as possible. RICE PASTE. Rub 3 ozs. of butter well into i lb. of ground lice, moisten it with water, and roll it out with a little flour. RICE PIE. Pick clean a quart of rice, and wash it well through two or three waters; tie it in a cloth, put it into a pot of boihug water, and boil it till perfectly soft; then drain and press it as diy as possible, and mix with it 2 ozs. of fresh butter and two table-spoonsful of mild grated cheese. Take a small tin butter kettle, wet the inside, put in the rice, and set it in a cool place till quite cold; then turn it carefully out of the kettle, of which it will retain the form, rub it over with the beaten yolk of an egg, and set it in an oven till lightly browned. Cut out from the top of the mass of rice an oval lid, about two inches from the edge, so as to leave a flat rim or border all round ; then excavate the mould of rice, leaving a standing crust all round, and at the bottom about two inches thick. Have ready some hot stewed oysters, or birds, or brown or white fricassee; fill up the pie with it, adding the gravy; lay on the lid, and decorate it with green curled sprigs of parsley, stuck in all round the crack where the lid is put on. The pie may be filled with curried chickens. RICE POUND CAKE. Weigh lib. of broken-up loaf sugar of the best quality; upon some of the largest lumps rub off the yellow rind of three ripe large lemons that have been previously rolled on your hand on a table to increase the juice ; then powder finely all the pound of sugar. Cut up into a deep pan 1 lb. of the best fresh butter, mix with it the powdered sugar, and stir them together with a wooden spoon till perfectly light. Squeeze the juice of the lemons through a strainer into a bowl, mix it with half a grated nutmeg, and add it to the butter and sugar. Sift 1 lb. (or a quart) of rice flour into a pan, and in another shallow pan beat twelve eggs till they are smooth and thick; then stir the beaten egg and the rice flour alternately into the butter and sugar, a little at a tiuie of each. Having stirred the whole long and hard, put the mixture into a buttered tin pan that has straight or upright sides, set it immediately in a well heated oven, and bake it thoroughly. It will require five hours in proportion to its thickness When done it will shrink a little from the sides of the pan, and a twig from a corn broom or a wooden skewer, plunged down to the bottom of the cake, will come out dry and clean. When cool ice it, adding a little rose water or lemon juice to the icing. Heap the icing first on[ 399 ] EIO RIC the centre of the top, aud then with a broad- , bladed knife, dipped occasionally into a bowl of cold water, spread it evenly all over the surface of the cake. Instead of lemons you may use, for flavouring this cake, the yellow rind of two oranges grated on the sugar, and the juice of three mixed with the spice. Orange rind, being stronger and more powerful in taste than that of lemon, a smaller quantity of it will suffice. You may bake the above mixture in little tins like queen cakes, taking care to grease them with fresh butter. This mixture will make a nice pudding, using only i lb. of rice flour, but the above quantities of all the other ingredients. Bake it in china or hand- some white ware, as it must go to table in the dish it is baked in. RICE PUDDING, BOILED. Take 6 ozs. of whole rice, and when sufficiently boiled stir in a table-spoonful and a half of suet shred finely. When that is melted take it up, and add one egg and 2 ozs. of moist sugar. Boil these together three quarters of an hour. RICE PUDDING WITH CURRANTS. Tie 5 ozs. of whole rice in a cloth, leaving it room to swell; boil it half an hour, then take it up, and add three spoonsful of suet shred finely, 5 ozs. of cuiTants, and two eggs well beaten; tie it up again, and boil it an hour and a half. RICE PUDDING, DUTCH. Soak 4ozs. of rice for half an hour in warm water ; then drain the water from it, put it into a stewpan, with half a pint of milk and half a stick of cin- namon, and let it simmer \mtil tender. When cold add four whole eggs well beaten, 3 ozs. of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, a good-sized piece of lemon-peel, and 2 ozs. of butter melted in cream. Line a dish or mould with light puff paste, put in the above, and bake in a quick oven. RICE PUDDING WITH FRUIT. Swell the rice in a little milk over a fire ; then mix with it either cuiTants or gooseberries scalded, or apples pared and quartered, raisins, or black currants : add an egg to the rice to bind it. Boil it well, and serve it with sugar. RICE PUDDINGS, SMALL. Simmer two spoonsful of rice in half a pint of milk until it is thick; then add to it a bit of butter the size of an egg, and about half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold mix the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two (well beaten), sugar and nutmeg according to taste, and add grated lemon and a little cinna- mon. Butter some little cups, lay some orange or citron at the bottom, and fill them about three parts full with the above. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slow oven. Serve the moment before they are to be eaten, with sweet sauce in a boat. RICE, SAVOURY. Carefully wash and pick some rice, set it to stew very gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, and add an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and salt. When it is swelled it should not boil to mash. Put it to dry on the shallow end of a sieve before the fire. You may serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having first heated it. RICE SNOWBALLS. Wash and pick i lb. of very clean rice; put it on the fire in a saucepan with plenty of water, let it boil ten minutes, drain it on a sieve till quite dry, and then pare six apples—weight, 2i ozs. each. Divide the rice into six parcels in separate cloths ; put one apple in each, tie it loosely, and boil it one hour. Serve it with the sugar and butter, or wine sauce. RICE SOUP. Wash your rice well in warm water, changing it frequently; then put the rice into a saucepan with some good stock, set it on the fire, and leave it to swell half an hour, but do not let it boil. When the rice has imbibed all the stock add a sufficient quantity to cover it; cover and boil it slowly for two hours. In the meantime broil three slices of beef, and pepper and salt them well. When of a nice dark colour throw them into the rice soup, to which they will impart a rich flavour and a fine colour. RICE SPONGE CAKE. Put twelve eggs into a scale, and balance them in the other scale with their weight in broken lump sugar. Take out four of the eggs, remove the sugar, and balance the eight eggs with an equal quantity of rice flour. Rub off on some lumps of the sugar the yellow rind of three ripe large lemons, and then powder all the sugar. Break the eggs one at a time into a saucer, put all the whites into a pitcher, and all the yolks into an earthen shallow pan, beat them so stiff that they will stand alone; then add the powdered sugar gradually to the white of egg, and beat it in well. In the other pan beat the yolks till very smooth and thick; then mix them gradually, a little at a time, with the white of egg and sugar. Lastly, stir in by degrees the rice flour, adding it lightly, and stirring it slowly and gently round till the surface is covered with bubbles. Transfer it directly into a buttered tin pan, set it immediately into a brisk oven, and bake it an hour and a half, or more, according to its thickness. Ice it when cool, flavouring the icing with lemon or rose. This cake will be best the day it is baked. In every sort of sponge cake, Naples biscuits, lady's fingers, and all cakes made without but- ter, it is important to know that the eggs and sugar are to be beaten very hard; the flour, which must always go in at the last, should be stirredKIG [ 400 ] RIG in very slowly and ligbtly, holding the whisk or stirring rod perpendicularly or upright in your hand, and moving it gently round and round on the surface of the batter, without allowing it to go down deeply. If the flour is stirred in hard and fast the cake will certainly he tough, leathery, and unwholesome. Sponge cake, when cut, should look coarse-grained and rough. RICE, WHOLE (in a Shape). Wash a large tea-cupful of rice in several waters, put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it, and when it boils add two cupsful of rich milk, and boil it till it becomes dry; put it into a shape, and press it in well. When cold turn it out, and serve with preserved black currants, raspberries, or any sort of fruit round it. ' RICKETS. This disease is characterised by an uncommon size of the head, swelling and enlargement of the joints, flattened ribs, incur- vation of the spine, distortion of the long bones, protuberance of the belly, and general emacia- tion. In some families it is an hereditary dis- ease, though parents who have been affected with it have sometimes a healthy and robust offspring. Children of the poorer and more profligate classes are those most commonly atfected with it, although there are circum- stances which conduce to it, such as a damp cold residence, impure air, want of attention to cleanliness, bad nursing, want of exercise and food, weakness, &c. The proximate cause, how- ever, is now considered to be a deficiency of animal gluten in the bones (phosphate of lime): hence they are deprived of that necessary strength and firmness which otherwise might characterise them. The disease seldom appears before the ninth month, and very rarely shows itself after the second year of a child's age. It comes on slowly; and the first appearances of it to be observed are, flaccidity of the flesh, wasting of the body, paleness and loss of colour in the- cheeks if they have been of a rosy complexion, a slight swelling of the face, &c. The child is listless, and unwilling to exert itself on the least occasion, and is unable to walk. The appetite is often not much impaired, but the stools are unusually frequent and loose, and the belly appears uncommonly full and tumid. With respect to the faculties of the mind, the understanding is generally very mature, but in a few cases stupidity and fatuity ensue. There is fever at the commencement of the disease; but in its more advanced stage a frequent pulse and other symptoms^ of a hectic nature attend. In some cases the disease proceeds no further, and the child gradually recovers its health and strength, the limbs being left, however, in a distorted state. In others it continues to in- crease, till at length every function of the animal economy becomes afi"ected, and the scene is closed in death. The cure of rickets depends upon invigorating the system, by bracing up the solids, promoting digestion, and the formation of good chyle, by administering such medicines as possess a tonic power, together with immersion in cold water, increasing its eff'ects by friction with flannels ; a free, open, and dry air; nutritive diet, with wine, and proper exercise ; and by carrying the body in a horizontal posture, as an erect one might increase the deformity. The following powder may be taken twice a day mixed in a little syrup:—Take myrrh and powder of calumba, of each 5 to 10 grains; sulphate of iron, 1 grain. In consequence of the difBculty of getting young children to take bark or any kind of bitters, the metallic tonics, such as the oxide of zinc, subcarbonate of iron, &c., must be em- ployed. Ammoniated tincture of iron may be given, from 30 to 60 drops, twice a day, in a glass of cold water. Or, take subcarbonate of iron, 6 grains ; powdered rhubarb, 4 grains ; lump sugar, 8 grains. Make a powder, to be taken morning and evening in a little syrup, treacle, or honey. Or, take oxide of zinc, 12 to 24 grains ; compound powder of cinnamon, 1 scruple; white sugar, 2 scruples. Mix, divide it into twelve powders, and give one night and morning. Where children with this disease can be per- suaded to take bark, a few grains of the extract may be given mixed up in port wine ; and, to assist the effect of the above remedies, a gentle emetic may be occasionally given, particularly in those cases where the appetite and digestion are considerably impaired. The bowels ai-e to be kept open with some gentle laxative. In removing obstructions of the abdominal viscera in children, and to restore the health, by soliciting the return of the secretions, Sir A. Cooper, Bart., strenuously recommends the following mixture :—Take tincture of Peru- vian bark and tincture of rhubarb, of each 1 oz.; oxymuriate of quicksilver, 1 grain. Mix, and let a tea-spoonful be given twice or thi-ee times a day. When there is rickets with mesenteric ob- struction the above will be found to produce a very beneficial efi'ect, with occasional doses of from 3 to 5 grains of the compound powder of chalk, with opium. Should the rickets have proceeded from a venereal taint, tonics and mercury may be com- bined ; if from worms or difiicult teething, the means advised under those heads may be adopted. See Dentition and Anthelmintics. The great advantage, however, in the treat-• It 401 ] ROA tnent of rickety chUiiyren will be a change of air, by removing them from town to the country, to an elevated and dry situation, supplying a nutritious diet and a moderate quantity of wine. Rickety patients should lie on hair mat- tresses, chaff beds, &c., these being preferable to feather beds, as they do not yield to the weight of the body: hence they tend to keep the limbs and body in a natural position. Various mechanical contrivances have been in- vented for the purpose of obviating the effects of this disease, but it is next to doing nothing to attempt using them with very young children. RING, TIGHT: To Remove. Thread a needle flat in the eye with a strong thread, pass the head of the needle with care under the ring, and pull the thread through a few inches towards the hand ; wrap the long end of the thread tightly round the finger regularly all down the nail to reduce its size; then lay bold of the short end, and unwind it. The thread, repassing against the ring, will gradually remove it from the finger. RINGWORM OF THE SCALP. The head should be frequently shaved, and kept covered with an oiled silk cap, or, instead of which, a thin bladder has sometimes been used. An ointment should be formed by mixing together spermaceti cerate and finely pulverised supertartrate of potash, in such proportions as to make it of a very fine consistence, of which a piece the size of a nutmeg, or larger, according to the extent of the surface affected, phould be well rubbed on the part with the palm of the hand every night for three or four minutes : the head should be well washed with soap and water every third night previously to the ppplication of the ointment. Internal medicines are seldom requisite in this ad- vanced stage, except where the character of the affection is irregular, or there is a peculiarity in the constitution of the patient, in which cases some modification of treatment will necessarily be required: these variations will readily be made by any respectable practitioner. The above plan, if diligently pursued for from three to six weeks, will rarely disappoint the ex- pectations of those who try it, even in in- veterate cases. When it does not yield to this a weak solution of the oxymuriate of mercury may be used, in the proportion of 1 grain to 2 ozs. of water. Medicine is seldom necessary internally. In slight cases, common with some, is used a decoction of nut-galls, the astringency i f which will often entirely remove the disease. RISSOLES : To Fey. Roll out some puff paste, and cut it into form ; .mince some cold veal or fowl small, with white pepper and salt, a little cream, and the yolk of a raw egg; give it a gentle heat, aud when cold wet the VOL, II. edge of the paste; lay a spoonful of the minced meat on it, turn it over, and close it well; then glaze it over with the yolk of egg, and put tho rissoles into a pan of boiling dripping. When fried brown take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain. They must be served hot. ROACH. The roach is a very coarse and bony fish. Those which are taken from rivers are very superior to those that are taken from ponds. They are in season in April and May. ROACH, BOILED. Scale, gut, and wash them; wipe them, and cut them in three or four places on the side. Put into a stewpan somo small beer, vinegar, and water (enough to cover the fish), some salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, some parsley, and a stick of horseradish sliced. When it boils put in the fish. Serve with anchovy sauce. ROACH, FRIED. Scale and gut the roach, wash them in salt and water, wipe them exceed- ingly dry, flour, and fry them in boiling lard: they must be brown and crisp. Lay them in a warm dish, pour the fat out of the pan, put in a piece of butter, and when it boils fry somo sage and parsley till crisp, and lay them on the roach. Serve with anchovy sauce. ROASTING. In the first place observe that your spit is properly cleaned with sand and water; for brickdust and oil will give it a bad appearance, and a disagreeable taste to the meat. When well scoured wipe it dry with a clean cloth. If the spit is carefully wiped after roasting, and while hot, it will require nothing more than a wipe before using. The less it passes through the meat the better; and in many joints it will enter at the bones, and ruu along them for some distance, without the least injury to the prime parts. Care must be taken that the meat is balanced evenly on the spit, that its motion may be regular, and the fire act equally on every part. For this purpose you must be provided with leaden or balancing skewers, and what are called cook-holds. Pud a little salt and water into the dripping-pan, and ■with this baste the meat for a little time before the fat or butter is used. When the meat is dry baste it with flour. By salting meat before it is put down to roast the gravy is drawn out. Salt, therefore, should be reserved till the joint is almost done. Roasting requires a radiant fire; therefore make it up in time. Proportion it to the dinner that is to be dressed, and extend it of a suffi- cient length, so that the ends of the joint, or whatever else is put down before it, may be thoroughly done as the rest. About half an hour or more before you roast it prepare the grate by laying on a few substantial coals, and putting between the bars others of differentliOA EOL [ 402 ] Bi'zes, according to the bulk of the joint and the degi"ee of heat necessary to be kept up for dress- ing it, after which wet the cinders and throw them on the back. Be careful to avoid putting any meat before a hollow or exhausted fire, which will soon want recruiting; and, if the heat becomes too fierce while you are roasthig, take oft the spit to a considerable distance till it is somewhat abated. ' If the article to be dressed is thin and delicate the fire must be little and brisk; and, on the contrary, when your joint is large, the fire must be strong and equally clear in every part of the grate. Stir it well before the joint is put down, watch it from time to time, keep it clear at the bottom, and take care that there are no sm.oky coals in the front. Avoid putting the meat too near at first, and the larger the joint is the farther off it must be kept; for, should it be scorched, the outside will become hard, and have an unpleasant taste, nor will the meat be well done. The usual distance that the meat should be kept from the fire is between ten and fourteen inches, or a foot upon an average. After being put down it must be placed nearer, according as the joint will bear the heat. The dripping-pan should be kept off, so aa larely to catch what falls from the meat; for if it is too near the grate the ashes will fall into it, and spoil the contents; and if, again, it is too far from the fire, the fat, from falling on the live cinders, will be lost, and yield, besides, a stinking smoke injurious to the meat. The best size for a dripping-pan is twenty- eight inches by twenty inches, with a covered well on the side farthest from the fire to collect the fat. In a pan of this descrip- tion fried fish may be occasionally laid, and various kinds of dishes to keep hot. A good meat screen is indispensably necessary to guard what is dressed from external air, and to condense the heat. It should go upon wheels, not be less than three feet and a half in width, and will be better if it has shelves and hooks, so as to make it answer all the purposes of a Dutch oven. The jack should be kept as clean as possible, oiled, and wiped. After the meat is done cover it up, and take off the fliers, to prevent their gathering dust. In roasting it is impossible to lay down any specific rules for time; but if the fire is pro- perly kept up according to the preceding direc- tions, and the meat is not frozen, from fifteen to twenty minutes for each pound may be con- sidered generally sufficient. When the meat is half done remove the spit and pan back; stir up the fire well, that it may burn clear and bright for the browning, and when the steam draws towards the grate it is a sign of being nearly, if not quite done. The rising of the steam is a sure criterion that tha joint is thoroughly impregnated with the heat, and therefore any further evaporation is not only unnecessary, but an actual waste. Half an hour before the meat is done make your gravy, and just before taking up the joint put it nearer the fire to be browned. To raise a froth upon the surface baste it with butter, and dredge it with just enough flour to give it a light varnish. Observe that old meat does not require so much roasting as young, for this reason—that it can be eaten with more of the gravy in it. As some families do not possess the con- venience of a jack and spit, it is proper to add a remark in this place on the simple method of roasting by a string. Previously to putting down your meat to the fire pass a strong skewer through each end of the joint, by which meanSj when it is half done, it can be easily turned, and so as to preserve the gravy. A bottle-jack or Dutch oven is exceedingly useful for roasting ordinary joints. In all cases let the cook bear in mind that good roasting depends upon time, distance, fre- quent basting, and a clear fire. To keep meat hot take it up as soon as done ; and if the com- pany be not come set it in a pan of boiling water, cover it with another, and spread a cloth over all. By this way the gravy will be kept from drying up. ROCAMBOLE. Peel some rocamboles, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water; set them on the fire until they will yield easily to pressure, then throw them into cold water. Reduce some veloute, thicken it a little, and the rocamboles being cold, drain and put them in; give them a toss over the fire, and serve. ROCHE ALUM. See Alum. ROCHE'S EMBROCATION. .5^eeHooPiN& Cough. ROLLS, FRENCH (1). Mix rather more than I oz. of coarse salt with 8 lbs. of sifted flour; make a hole in the middle, and pour about half a pint of good yeast, the well-beatea whites of four eggs, and as much new milk warmed as will mix it to a middling stiffness; clap and work it down one way for half an hour, but do not knead it; cover it with a warm towel, and let it rise before the fire for half an hour; take off the surface, which soon becomes hard, and put it aside to be made into a roll; work and clap the dough, form it into rolls, place them upon tins, and let them rise for ten minutes. Bake them in a quick oven. ROLLS, FRENCH (2). Rub 1 oz. of butter in 1 lb. of flour, then add to it one egg beaten, some-yeast that is not bitter, and a sufficientEOL I 463 f quantity of milk to make a aough of moderate stiffness ; beat it well, but do not knead it; let it rise, and bake on tins. ROLLS, FRENCH (3). Warm three spoons- ful of milk, the same quantity of water, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; then add two spoonsful of thick yeast; put this into the middle of rather more than a quart of flour, mix the whole together to the consistence of batter pudding, adding more flour if necessary to make it the proper thickness ; strew a little flour over it from the sides, and if the weather is cold set it a little distance from the fire. Do this three hours before it is put in the oven. When it breaks a good deal through the flour, and rises, work it into a light paste with more warm milk and water; let it lie till within a quarter of an hour before it is put in the oven, then work it lightly into rolls, flour a tin» and drop them on; handle them as lightly as possible, and set them befoi'e the fire. About twenty minutes will be sufficient time to bake them. Put a little salt into the flour. Rasp the rolls. ROOK PIE. Draw and skin as many young birds as will fill the dish, set them in cold water with a little salt for two hours, and then re- move the back bones ; and season with pepper, salt, a little Cayenne, and two or three cloves pounded fine; lay them closely in a pie dish, adding some good gravy, with some pats of butter on the top; cover the whole with a coarse flour-and-water paste, and bake it for an hour and a half. Next day remove the coarse paste, replace it with a puff paste, and bake over again until done. Before serving pour into the dish some highly seasoned gravy. Some add the yolks of eggs and a steak at the bottom, as in a pigeon pie. ROPINESS. See Beer, Ropiness in ROSE, JELLY OF. Make a clear apple jielly, colour it with cochineal infused in double- distilled rose water, and just before the last boiling put in half a glass of the best double- distilled rose water. ROSE VINEGAR. Infuse rose leaves in the best white vinegar, leave it where it will be well exposed to the sun for ten days, then draw it off, press all the liquor from the dregs, filter, and bottle it. Keep the bottles well corked. ROSE WATER, DOUBLE. The rose generally chosen for this purpose is the common ^ale (single or double) rose, but the white rose is the best of all. Gather the flowers in fine weather two hours after sunrise; take out the talyx, and separate the leaves ; pound them in a marble mortar to a paste, and leave them five or six hours in the mortar; then put them in a large close elotli, and let two persons wring it with all their strength. Having by this opera- tion obtained 4 lbs. of juice, infuse it in an equal weight of fresh rose leaves for twenty- four hours. At the end of that time put the whole into the alembic, which place in a sand bath, and distil it according to rule. {See Distilling.) When you have collected about 1 oz. of the water unlute the receiver, and if that which issues from the still is as odoriferous as that which proceeded first, continue the operation; but if not, collect it into another vessel, as this second water is not single, and must be kept separate from the first, whicli is the essential water. Should the second water have an unpleasant smell (caused by the applica- tion of too much heat), expose it to the sun for a few days, covered only by a sheet of paper. The utmost care is necessary in distiUing this and all other odoriferous substances. A still more powerful essence than the above may be procured by the following method :—Gather as many roses as will afford 30 lbs. of leaves, and' pound these with 4 lbs. of salt; when pounded place the paste in a vessel in layers, Avith salt' between each; press them closely, cork them tightly, leave the vessel twelve days, and then, distil as usual. ROSE WATER, SINGLE. Put 4 lbs. of rose leaves into a pan, with thi-ee quarts of river water, and leave the mixture four-and-twenty hours ; then put it into a metal alembic, and distil fi'om itasmuch odoriferous wateras you can, being' sure to stop the moment you observe the phlegm.' Take off the alembic, throw away its contents,^ and rinse it out well. After this fill it to two- thirds with fresh-gathered rose leaves, on whichf pour the above drawn rose water; distil this, and when you have procured as much good rose water as it will yield let the fire go out gradually. ROSEMARY [Rosmarinus officinalis) grow3 wild in the south of Europe, along the region of the Mediterranean, on dry hills and amon^ rocks. The plant has a strong aromatic odour,' and a bitter, camphorous taste, both of which are imparted to alcohol, and only partially to water. As a medicine rosemary is tonic, exciting, stimulates the nervous system, cordial, cephalic, and promotes the circulation. It isi considered serviceable in vertigo, hysteria, head-' a,ches, hypochondria, paralysis, humid catarrh, and all the affections of debility, as certairi chloroses, leucorrhceas, and also as an emmena- gogue. It is sometimes used in the form of snuff, or mixed along with other herbs for the same purpose. The whole plant is employed as a condiment: powdered, it serves many pur. poses in confectionery, and to form fragrant packets for perfuming wardrobes and clothing. The virtues of the plant reside in a volatile oil, obtained by distillation, and called oil of rose'[ 404 ] ROS RUB mary, which is colourless, and has the odour of the plant. Its specific gravity is 0-911. When kept in imperfectly stopped bottles it deposits stearoptine equal to one-tenth of the bulk of the oil. This oil is much employed in perfumery for the manufacture of toilet waters and scents, among which it is an ingredient in Hungary- water and eau de Cologne ; and it is said posi- tively to have the property of encouraging the growth of the hair and curing baldness. The llesh of sheep that browse upon the plant con- tracts an, excellent flavour, and the celebrated white honey of Narbonne owes its reputation to being collected from the flowers of rosemary. Indeed, De Candolle asserts that when, by any accident, the flowering of the rosemary ia checked, the honey harvest of Narbonne is a failure. ROSEMARY VINEGAR. This is made in the same manner as lavender vinegar. ROSES, BATTER OF. Make a batter with rich cream, sweeten and season with orange or rose water, and let the paste be beaten very smooth. Have clarified butter hot in a frying- pan, and dip in the mould to heat; take it out, fill it with batter, and return it into the pan. When done enough give the mould a stroke, and it will fall out, and proceed to form the whole in the same way. Any shape, flavour, or colour may be given. ROSES, CONSERVE OF. BoiUlb.of sugar to fort souffle; pour into this syrup the best double-distilled rose water, boil it again to grande peiie, mix with it a little prepared cochineal or carmine to colour it, and pour your conserve into moulds. ROSES IN CREAM. Put a quart of rich cream into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when it boils take it off; put in a handful of fresli rose leaves, leave them to infuse, and keep them covered for two hours; then, if the cream be cold, strain and pour it on the yolks of nine eggs, beat them up well, add f lb. of powder sugar, set it on a slow fire, and stir it con- stantly till it thickens, taking care that it does not boil; run it through a bolter, and when cold cover it with a little carmine dissolved in clarified sugar; put it into a sarbotiere, and freeze as usual. See Ice : To Pbepaee. ROSES, HONEY OF. Infuse 4 ozs. of the dried buds of red roses for six hours in a little distilled boiling water, mix 5 lbs. of clarified honey into the strained liquor, and boil it to a syrup. Violets, gillyflowers, &c., are done in the same way. ROSEWOOD is produced by a tree found in the Brazilian province of Goyaz, called Physocalymna floribunda. Furniture made of it is very heavy, being usually French polished. See French Polish. When very dirty it is necessary to wash it, which is done with a .flannel dipped in warm beer, not too hot, followed quickly with a linen cloth to rub it dry. If there are any brass or lackered ornaments, such as the handles of sideboards, drawers, cellarets, &c., they should be first cleaned, getting off the fly-stains with a flannel dipped in soap and water, and then polishing with plate powder; but if the lacker is worn off, a little finely powdered brickdust and leather. Great care must be taken not to rub the dust into the wood. It is always best to remove the article to be cleaned into the centre of the room, so as to have a passage all round it; and supposing it to be washed as directed above (which need only be done occasionally), let the stains be removed by rubbing with, not across, the grain a smooth cork; then apply your polish with a woollen cloth, and rub it in immediately with another. If the paste be very stiff it will be necessary to lay it on with a brush. Whatever you apply, use but little at a time, and rub it in well. ROSSOLIS. Take f lb. of picked orange flowers, 1 lb. of musk roses, 6 drachms of cinnamon, and two cloves, both bruised; put them into a cucurbite, with three gallons of pure water. On distilling this it will yield a gallon and a half, in which dissolve 12 lbs. of fine sugar broken up ; add to it an equal quantity of spirit of jasmine, colour it crimson with cochineal, filter, and bottle it. ROTTEN-STONE. A silicious mineral ob- tained from the mines of Derbyshire: it is of an ash-brown colour, moderately hard, and stains the fingers. This mineral is used by lapidaries and other mechanics for grinding, polishing, and sometimes for cutting stones, and for polishing metals. ROUGE. See Cosmetics. ROUGE, JEWELLERS'. See Platp. POWDEES. ROUX. Put 1 lb. of butter into a sauce- pan, shake it about till dissolved, and add a sufficient quantity of sifted flour to make it of the consistence of bouilli; then set it over a fierce stove, and stir till it begins to colour, when make a good fire of cinders, place the roux on it, and let it stand to in- crease the colour: it ought to be of a clear light brown. Set it by, and use it as occasion may require. ROUX, WHITE. Prepare your butter and flour as above, and place it in a moderately heated stove, stirring it constantly till vei-y hot. Be careful that it does not take colour at all, for the whiter it is the more desirable. RUBEFACIENTS are such applications aa mustard poultice and spirit of hartshorn, toRUB t 405 1 HUM produce redness and counter irritation when a blister is not deemed necessary. RUBY. This precious stone, like many others, is only crystallised clay. 1. The deep red ruby is found in various parts of the East Indies, and also in Brazil. 2. The spinel, the shade of which resembles that of a bright corn-poppy flower: it is dug out of the mines of Hungary, Bohemia, Silesia, and South America. . 3. The balass, or pale red ruby, inclining to a violet, is supposed to be the mother of the different species of these gems. It is imported principally from Brazil, though a few are some- times brought from the East Indies. 4. The rubicel is of a reddish yellow, and is likewise obtained from the Brazils. There is a variety of this gem found in considerable numbers on the seashore near Ely, in the county of Fife; also near Portsoy, Banffshire; and at Inverary, Ai'gyleshire, in Scotland. Rubies are held in great esteem, on account of their lustre and the beauty of their ivater: hence they are sold "at high prices, and often counterfeited by Brazilian topazes, which are gradually heated in a crucible previously filled with ashes till they become red-hot. RUE. The common rue (Ruta graveolevs), which is the type of this family, is well known. It is also called herb of grace and country- man's treacle, and was held in high estimation by the old herbalists for its reputed virtues. The plant has a strong, disagreeable odour, and is bitter, hot, and acrid, and, when fresh, blisters the skin if much handled. Its virtues depend on a volatile oil, which is very abundant, and is contained in glandular vesicles apparent over the whole surface of the plant. Rue is stimulant and antispasmodic, and, like most other sub- stances which excite the circulation, occasionally increases the secretions, especially when they are deficient from debility. A strong infusion exhibited by the anus has been found of great service in relieving the convulsions of infants arising from flatulence and other intestinal irritations. The dos3 of the powdered leaves is from 15 grains to 2 scruples twice or thrice a day. Oil of Rue is also stimulant and anti- spasmodic. It is given sometimes in hysteria, and the convulsions of children arising from dentition, and is used as a rubefacient in palsy. The dose is from 2 to 5 drops, rubbed with sugar or mucilage. RUFFS AND REEVES. These are particularly delicate birds, and should therefore be handled very lightly in the picking. They must be run side by side upon a long skewer, roasted for twelve or fourteen minutes at a good distance from the fire, and basted with butter. Serve with good gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a boat. RUM is distilled from a fermented mixture, or wash, of molasses, sciimmings of boiling cane juice, and dunder, which last named material is the lees left after previous distillations. The whole are mixed and allowed to ferment for seven or eight days, and when the mixture throws up clear globules, or bubbles, it is fit for distillation. The first distillation produces a spirit called " low wines." To make this into rum of Jamaica proof it is distilled a second time. Twelve hundred gallons of wash produce 530 gallons of low wines, and from these are dis- tilled 220 gallons of proof rum. A third dis- tillation obtains from these 220 gallons about 113 gallons of marketable rum. The derivation of the name rum is not very apparent. Old Boyer, in 1729, in defining rum, says, " Or kill-devil, a drink used in Barbadoes, much stronger than brandy." Rum is said to be a cant synonyme of " rich and excellent." Thus the very superior brandy of Nantz was called n<m-Nantz; and London, in the same cant phraseology, was known as Rum-y\\\e. This and some others may be seen in Bailey's Dictionary, published in 1735. We are the more inclined to think the name is of English origin because other nations have for it names very dissimilar. Thus the French call it tafia, and the Brazilians at the commencement of the seventeenth century called it garapa. If crystallised sugar were fermented by itself the produce, when distilled, would be mere spirit of wine, without any of the flavour peculiar to rum. This flavour, therefore, is generated by the acid and other ingredients in the molasses and dunder. The ingredients are chlorophyl, or green colouring matter, an acid called the melasses acid, but which is probably the acetic, and a peculiar oil which gives the cane juice, when fresh, a balmy odour. During fermenta- tion these form ethers and combinations similar to those occurring during the fermentation of grape juice; and to these ethers and combina- tions the peculiar flavour of rum is owing. The rum imported into the United Kingdom is entirely the produce of our West India Islands, and chiefly of Jamaica. The quantity in 1856 amounted to 7,169,163 gallons.—[Johnson's Chemistry of the World.) Pine-apple rum is only rum in which slices of pine-apple have been soaked. One slice to a bottle is sufficient. RUM JELLY. To a quart of common white wine add 1 lb. of lump sugar reduced to a syrup, and clarified; then take 1 oz. of isinglass, dissolve, and mix it with the syrup milk warm. When this mixture is nearly cold pour it. into the white wine; stir it well so as[: 4-06 J RYE to mix it completely ; then add a spoonful, or rather more, according to the strength you desire, of old Jamaica rum ; stir it, and pour it into a mould, or glasses if intended to liand round for evening parties. EUMFUSTIAN. Whisk up the yolks of half a dozen eggs until they are well frothed, and put them to a quart of strong beer, to which is added a pint of gin. Boil up a bottle of sherry in a saucepan, with a stick of cinnamon or nutmeg grated, a dozen large lumps of sugar, and the rind of a lemon peeled very thin. When the wine boils it is poured on the beer and gin, and is then called rumfustian. It is drunk hot. . RUMP SOUP. Take a good fresh-killed shin of beef, and cut off all the fleshy pieces; add 1 lb. of lean ham and 2 lbs. of veal, and put the whole into a large stewpan ; set it over a slow fire, and let it brown, but not burn. In the ipeantime take the remainder of the beef, put it into a large soup pot filled up with water, and before it boils add the meat in the stewpan to it. When it boils take off the scum; then add six. onions, 1 oz. of black pepper, a bundle of thyme, a little winter savory, and let the whole stew till the soup is rich and good. Then take two ox- tails, cut them into pieces about two inches in length, and fry them in butter till they are nicely browned; then strain and skim the soup, return it into a clean pot, and let it boil till it is rich and fine. Put J lb. of rice into water, and let it swell; then drain it, add it to the soup, and boil the whole together for ten minutes. Season to your taste with white pepper, Cayenne, and salt; The rumps must be stewed until they are tender, with a handful of onions shred, before they are fried, and then served up with the soup. RUPTURE. See Heenia. ';r,-TO _ RUSKS. Melt 4 ozs. of butter in half a pint of new milk; then add to this seven eggs ■well beaten, a quarter of a pint of yeast, and 8 ozs. of sugar. Put this mixture by degrees into as much flour as will make an extremely light paste, more like batter, and set it to rise before the fire for half an hour; then add more flour to make it rather stiffer, but not stiff; work it -well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes, about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold slice them the thickness of rusks, and brown them a little in the oven. RUST. See Coreoston, Anti - attrition, Bars (Bright), and Ikon. RYAN'S ESSENCE OF COLTSFOOT. See Coltsfoot, Essence of. RYE. As a bread corn rye (Secah cereale) holds a high rank among the nations of northern Europe, and, being of a hardy constitution, it gron-8 in regions where wheat would perish. Like almost all the important cereals, its native country is unknown. It has been thought by some to have originated in Crete, by others in the Levant, and another class in Egypt. It would almost seem, from its hardy constitution, which enables it to be cultivated even to the edge of perpetual snow, and in regions where the subsoil is for ever frozen, that it was origin- ally obtained from some such countiy. Tlie grain of rye contains less bran and more flour than that of wheat. The flour is nutritious, and the bread that is made of it is of a dark colour, like gingerbread, close, cool, pasty, well flavoured, with an agreeable odour, and keeps seven or eight days without becoming dry. It is not so nutritious as that of wheat, and is rather heavy: but strong stomachs succeed in digesting it, and, where it can without incon- venience be used, it has the property of stimu- lating the action of the bowels. It is stated by M. Courhaut that persons who live exclusively on rye grow freely till they are seven or eight years old, after which their growth is slow till the age of twenty-two. During this time, he says, some are affected with leanness, scrofula, and obstructions, and in them puberty is not manifested till they are twenty-four years old ; they are low in stature, but at the age of twenty or twenty-four they begin to grow, and become full-bodied and strong. The women of the latter age are as fresh and blooming as girls of fifteen or sixteen. It is said that dogs fed with the bread of rye are dull and sluggish, and are affected with running humours from the eyes ; the uric acid of their urine is diminished, and albumen and mucus increased. By fermenta- tion and distillation a spirit is obtained from it, and it constitutes two-thirds of the grain from which hoUands, or geneva, is distilled, the remaining third being malted baiiey; and the flavour is communicated by adding juniper berries. Gathered before it is ripe, and dried, the grain is in some parts used as green peas. Dried and roasted when ripe, some mix it with coffee, or use it entirely as a substitute for that article. The flour of rj'e yielded, by the analysis of Einhoff, 3'27 of albumen, 9-48 of gluten, 11-19 of mucilage, 61'09 of starch, 3 27 of saccharine matter, 6'38 of lignin, and 5'42 of loss. The straw is very valuable for many pui"poses : it is extensively employed for straw plait, in hat-making, mat-making, and in stuffing horses' collars. The stalks, if cut before they are ripe, are as tough as many fibrous substances, and are frequently used for tying and binding materials. Rye is subject to a disease called ergot, which is produced by a fungus, called by De Candolle Schrotium clavus, and by Queckett Ergotatia abortifaciens. Grain thus affected is highly dangerous: even in the quantity ofE mi BAP EYE ■J draclim or 1 draclim it often causes nausea and vomiting, and in still larger doses produces a sense of pain and weight in the head, giddiness, dilatation of the pupils, delirium, and even stupor. EYE BATTER CAKES. Beat two eggs till very light, mix them gradually with a quart of lukewarm milk, and sufficient rye meal to make a batter about as thick as for buck- wheat cakes; then stir in a large table-spoon- ful of the best brewers' yeast, or twice that quantity if the yeast is home made; cover it, and set it to rise in a warm place. If too thin add more rye meal. When quite light, and covered on the surface with bubbles, bake it on a griddle in the manner of buckwheat cakes. Butter them, and eat them wai'm at breakfast or tea. If you cannot obtain good yeast, and wish to have the cakes ready with as much expedition as possible, you may use patent yeast powders according to the directions that accompany them. In this case the cakes must be baked in half an hour after the powders are mixed into the batter. Yeast powders put in at the last are an improvement to all sorts of batter cakes that have been previously fermented with good real yeast, and also to cakes made light by eggs; but to depend entirely on the powders, without either real yeast or eggs, is not well, as the cakes, though eatable, are generally too tough and leathery to be wholesome. In cities fresh yeast from brewers can be obtained every day, at a very trifling cost, during the brewing season, which is usually from October to April. At other seasons it can be procured from the bakers, or made at home, and should always be used in preference to depending solely on yeast powders. Though they improve the lightness of batter for which real yeast or beaten eggs have already been used, they will not of themselves alone give it a wholesome degree of lightness or crispness. Too much dependence on yeast powders is one reason that the buckwheat cakes of the present day are so inferior to those of former times, when they were always made of real yeast. Indian batter cakes may be made as above. RYE BREAD requires very little yeast. Mix with the water from 2 ozs. to 6 ozs. of treacle for each pound of flour; let it be strained through a very fine gauze or lawn sieve, as treacle is often adulterated with sand, and add salt, caraway, or anise of Verdun. The rye being sweet, the additional sweet gives it a determina- tion, and corrects a disease to which that grain is liable, and makes the bread pleasant, healthy, ar.d nourishing. It is an excellent sea store. RYE FLOUR. Used either to make sweet bread, raising the dough by yeasty or an acid bread, "by using leaven for that pul-pbse. This last is cooling, but not so nourishing as tho former, and more suited to an animal diet; I'j S. SACK. A sack of flour is 280 lbs., i. e., five bushels of 56 lbs. each. A sack of potatoes is 240 lbs., or three bushels of 80 lbs. each. A sack of wool contains 22 stone, each stone being 14 lbs. SACK. A wine formerly used in this country, and supposed by some to be Rhenish; others think it was Canary; but a recent and more probable conjecture is that it was sherry. The term sack is most probably corrupted from sec, dry, sherry being a dry wine in the language of the vintner SACK CREAM. Boil a pint of cream, the yolk of an egg beaten, two or three spoonsful of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir the whole over a gentle fire till it is as thick as rich cream, and when taken off stir it again till it is cold. Serve it in glasses with pieces of toast. SAFFRON. This is the anthers of th& Crocus sativus dried. Saffron is remarkably fragrant, and is highly esteemed, as it exhilarates the spirits when taken in small doses ; but, if used in too large portions, it produces immoderate mirth and all the consequences resulting from the abuse of spirituous liquors. It imparts a beautiful colour to water, wine, or spirits, to which it communicates its virtues. ^ This drug was formerly considered an ex- cellent remedy in hysteric depressions origin- ating from spasms, or from obstructions of the usual evacuations ; but in modern practice it is seldom employed, though it forms an ingredient in several medicinal preparations. The best saffron is that raised in England, which may be known by the breadth of its blades : it ought to be of a deep red or orange colour; fresh and tough, though neither too dry nor too moist; and of a strong, but pleasant aromatic odour. It deserves to be more generally known that mercenary dealers often adulterate this valuable spice with safflower, or with the fibrils of dried beef. The former practice, which is more common and less troublesome, cannot be easily detected; but the latter species of fraud may be ascer- tained by infusing a few threads of suspected saffron in a wine-glassful of simple water; and if, after standing twenty-four hours, the liquor acquire only a pale yellow tint instead of a bright red hue, it may be concluded that it is not genuine. SAFFRON CAKES. Take half a peck ofSAG [ 408 1 SAG flour, I lb. of butter, and a pint of cream or milk ; set this Inst on the fire, to which add the butter and a considerable quantity of sugar, and etrain in some saffron to your taste. Take seven or eight whites of eggs and two yolks, with seven or eight spoonsful of yeast; put the milk to it when nearly cold, with salt and coriander seeds; knead the whole well, make it into small cakes, and bake them in a quick oven. SAGE {Salvia officinalis). In a medicinal view sage moderately warms and strengthens the alimentary canal: hence, in cold, phlegmatic habits it excites appetite, and may be of service to persons labouring under nervous debility. The best method of taking it is by an infusion of the dry leaves used as common tea, or a tincture or extract made with rectified spirit, and given in proper doses. These preparations contain the whole virtues of the sage, while the distilled water and essential oil possess only the warmth and aromatic quality, without any of its bittei'ness or astringency. Watery infusions of the leaves, with the addition of lemon juice, form a useful drink in febrile disorders, and are very grateful to the palate, SAGE AND ONION SAUCE. Chop 1 oz. of onions very fine, with half the quantity of green sage leaves ; put them into a stewpan with four spoonsful of water, simmer gently for ten minutes, then add a tea-spoonful of pepper and salt, and 1 oz. of fine bread crumbs; mix the whole, and pour thereto a quarter of a pint of broth, gravy, or melted butter; stir them well together, and simmer a few minutes longer. This is an excellent accompaniment for roast goose, duck, or pork. SAGO. From various species of Sagus the true sago of commerce is derived. There are many varieties of sago, produced by different palms, and also by Cycas revoluta; but the genuine commercial sago is for the most part taken from one species or another of this genus, and those which supply it in greatest quantity are S. Rumphii, S. l<Bvis, and S. farinifera. Sagus llumphii is a small tree, comparatively speaking, not above thirty feet high. It is a native of the Indian Archipelago, particularly of Malacca, Borneo, Sumatra, Celebes, and the Moluccas, Before the tree has arrived at maturity the stem consists of a mere shell, about two inches thick, filled with a great mass of spongy pith, becoming gradually absorbed, and ultimately the fitem remains hollow. At the time when the pith is fully developed, and before it has begun to diminish, which is Indicated by the superior leaves being covered with a sort of farina, or white dust, the tree is felled, and the trunk cut into lengths six or seven feet long, which are Bplit to admit of the pith being more easily removed. The pith is in the state of a coarse powder, and is mixed with water in a trough having a sieve at one end; the water, loaded with farina, passes through the sieve, and is received in convenient vessels, where it is allowed to stand till the insoluble matter has subsided. The water is then strained off, and the farina which is left may be dried into a kind of meal, or moulded into whatever shape may be desired. Sago, as it comes to this country, is prepared by forming the meal into a paste with water, and rubbing it into grains. It is produced in the greatest abundance in the Moluccas, but of the finest quality on the eastern coast of Sumatra. The Chinese of Malacca refine it so as to give it a fine pearly lustre, and large quantities are also prepared at Singapore. It is said that a single tree will yield from 500 to COO lbs. of sago. There are several other modes of extracting the fecula, varying some- what in detail in different countries; but the one just explained is that pursued in the Moluccas. Sometimes the natives merely cut the pith in slices, and toast it before eating it, and others preserve the fecula in stems of bamboo. Sago forms the principal food of the natives of the Moluccas. A decoction of sago fermented yields alcohol by distillation, and by acesceuce it forms vinegar. The fruit of this palm is the size of a hen's egg. The base of the leaf-stalks is covered with long, fibrous filaments, that serve to make cordage and sacking. 8. lavis and S. farinifera are natives of the same islands, and equally furnish the sago of commerce. SAGO ; To Make. Let it soak for an hour in water to take off the earthy taste ; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more water, and simmer gently until transparent, with lemon- peel and spice ; add wine and sugar according to taste, and boil all up together. SAGO JELLY. Soak a large spoonful of sago in cold water for an hour, then pour off the water, and substitute a pint of fresh : stew it gently till reduced to about half the quantity. When done pour into a basin, and let it cool. SAGO MILK. When well cleansed boil the sago slowly with new milk. A small quantity will be sufficient for a quart of milk, as it swells so much, and when done it should be reduced to about a pint. It requires neither sugar nor flavouring. SAGO POSSET; To Make. Beat up twelve eggs, and strain them; then put ? lb. of lump sugar into a pint of white wine, and mix the same with the egg; set the whole over a chafing-dish, and keep it stirred till scalding hot. In the meantime grate some nutmeg in a quart of milk, and heat it; pour it over the egg and wine, holding your hand high while doing it, and stirring it all the while ; then take it off, set it before the fire half an hour, and[ 409 ] SAL SAG it will be ready. Another method is as follows :— Take a quart of new milk and four Naples biscuits; crumble them, and when the milk boils throw them in; give it another boil, then take it off, grate therein some nutmeg, and sweeten it to your taste; add half a pint of sheriy, stirring it all the time, and sei've it up. SAGO PUDDING. Boil 2 ozs. of sago, with some cinnamon and a bit of lemon-peel, till it is soft and thick ; mix the crumb of a small roll finely grated with a glass of red wine, 4 ozs. of chopped man-ow, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and sugar according to taste. When the sago is cold add this mixture to it, stir the whole well together, put it in a dish lined with light puff paste, and set it in a moderate oven to bake. When done stick it all over with citron cut in pieces, and almonds blanched and cut in slips. SAL AMMONIAC. See Ammonia, Mu- riate OF. SALAD. Take one or two lettuces, split them in two, and thoroughly wash them; then cut them into small pieces, and intermix them with small salad, celery, and beet-root cut in pieces, some nice young radishes cut in small pieces, sliced cucumber, and an egg boiled hard, cut into pieces and garnished about; then make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, which rub well together in a basin with a wooden spoon, and add a little pepper, salt, and mustard. When these are mixed to a smooth paste put in a few tea-spoonsful of sweet oil, mixing it well between each spoonful; then mix a few tea-spoonsful of vinegar in the same manner. When the sauce is mixed according to these directions it will never require shaking, and will always look like cream. Pour this sauce over the salad, or serve it in a cruet. SALAD MIXTURES. Boil two eggs, and put them in cold water for a few minutes, taking care that the yolks are quite cold and hard; rub them through a sieve with a spoon, and mix them with a table-spoonful of water or fine cream; add thereto two table-spoonsful of oil or melted butter, and when thoroughly incor- porated put in a tea-spoonful of salt or pounded lump sugar, and as much mustard. As soon as these are completely united pour in by degrees three table-spoonsful of vinegar, and rub with the other ingredients till they are blended; then cut up the white of an egg, and garnish with it the top of the salad. The sauce should remain at the bottom of the bowl. All salads require to be thoroughly chewed, otherwise their salu- brious qualities will be lost. SALAD, PARISIAN. Take five very red carrots and as many turnips ; cut all these with a root-cutter into round pieces an inch long, and three-eighths of an inch in diameter; cut some asparagus heads and French beans of the same length, and toss them all up in a little oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, tarragon, chervil, and minced shallot. Cut three large parboiled potatoes and a red beet-root into slices half an inch thick, one wide, and two and a half long; cut these again into long triangles, and place them on a dish alternately; that is, the slices of potato with the point upward, and the beet-root between each, with the point downward. Set them round the dish so as to form a crown six inches in diameter, to give it consistence; pour over the bottom of the dish some aspic jelly, and put it on ice to set it; then take thirty champignons, pierce the centre of each, and in these holes stick asparagus heads, French beans, carrot, or beet-root, all cut into round pieces an inch and a half long; dip the champignons into aspic jelly a little set, and place them alter- nately on the beet-root. When all are done pour your macedoine of carrots, &c., into the crown, mask it lightly with a white magnonaise, in the centre fix a fine lettuce heart, with hearts cut in halves or quarters, and serve your salad. SALAD SAUCE. Pound 1 oz. of scraped horseradish, add thereto ^ oz. of salt, a table- spoonful of made mustard, 4 drachms of shred shallot, ^ drachm of celery seed bruised, and the same quantity of Cayenne. Put to these a pint of burnet or tarragon vinegar, and let it stand in a jar for a week, at the end of which time strain it off for use. SALAD FOR WINTER. Take young tender colewort plants, sorrel, lettuce, endive, celery, parsley, full-grown onions, (which are better to cut and eat with salads in winter than young ones), and season them with salt, cream, and vinegar. Add sugar if approved. SALAMANDER. A plate of iron fixed to a wooden handle. The plate is made red-hot, and is then employed to brown the surface of scalloped oysters and other dishes. SALEP is a substance much used as a nutri- tious food in the East, and is habitually used by the Turks and Persians at their meals. It is a fecula produced by the tubers of Orchis mascula and other allied species. This plant is one of our most abundant British orchids, and ia found in woods, pastures, and by waysides. It is called early orchis, male orchis, and male fool's-stones. It also grows plentifully through- out Europe, Northern Africa, and the East. In Persia the fecula is obtained by washing the roots, and throwing them into boiling water to remove the outer skin; they are then dried, strung on cords, and hung in the sun till they are perfectly free of moisture, and will keep without injury for almost any period : they are sometimes dried in ovens. These bulbs, when thus dried, vary from the size of a cherry-stoneSAL SAL [ 410 ] to that of an olive, are slightly transparent, and of a horny colour. They are very difficult to pulvei'ise, and, to facilitate the operation, they should be soaked in cold water till they become Boft, and then rapidly dried. When reduced to powder it is dissolved like other fecula in water, milk, or broth, requiring sixty parts of liquid to one of fecula. It is employed, in the East particularly, as a restorative and powerful ana- leptic against weakness of the forces. In Poland the decoction of salep is the drink used in almost all diseases. It is highly nutritive, and ma.j be used for the same purposes as sago, tapioca, and arrowroot. Dr. O'Shaughnessy states that 2 drachms afford a sufficient meal for an invalid. Good salep, carefully prepared, is, in truth, one of the best articles of diet a 'convalescent can use. In India the salep of Cashmere is reckoned the best, and is obtained chiefly at the Hurdwar fail', from the Cashmere merchants. Dr. Royle considers the plant that yields Cashmere salep is a Eulophia. 0. morio {meadoio orchis, female fool's - stones) and 0. militaris {man orchis) both natives of Britain, also supply salep equal in quality to that obtained from 0. mascula; and it has been sug- gested that the substance might be profitably made in this country. In the " Philosophical Transactions," vol. lix., p. I, Mr. Moult de- scribes the method of making it. He says the best time to gather the tubers is when the seed is formed and the stalk is going to fall, for thon the new bulb, of which salep is made, has arrived at its full size. The new roots are washed in water, the outer skin removed, and then set on a tin plate in an oven heated to the degree of a bread oven. In six, eight, or ten minutes they will have acquired a ti'ans- parency like horn, without being diminished in size; they are thus to be removed into a room to dry and harden, which will be done in a few days, or they may be finished in a slow heat in a few hours. In North America salep is obtained from a species of Habenaria. SALERATUS is the name given by the Americans to the bicarbonate of potash, and is much used in American cookery instead of the carbonate of soda, to which it is much superior and more wholesome. • SALERATUS BISCUITS. Warm a quart of sweet milk, and put in it half a spoonful of saleratus. a heaped spoonful of lard or butter, and half a spoonful of salt; pour this in as much stiff flour as- will make a dough, and work it a quarter of an hour. Mould and bake them as other biscuits. SALERATUS CAKE. Warm a pint of buttermilk, put in it a tea-spoonful of powdered saleratus, and a piece of lard the size of an egg, stir it into flour till it is of a soft dough, roll it out, and hake it on tue gi-idaie, or in an iron oven. If you have no sour milk put a tea-spoonful of vinegar in sweet milk. SALINE DRAUGHT. See Effervescixg Draught. SALLY LUNNS. Take three quarts of dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, \ lb. of butter melted in a sufficient quantity of milk to dis- solve it, the yolks of three eggs, and a little salt; make these ingredients into a light dough, let it stand before the fire (covered) for an hour to rise, and bake it in a quick oven. The above may be made into small cakes. See Cakes, Sai.lt Lunn. SALMAGUNDI. This is a very pretty small dish if in nice shape, and if the colours of the iugi-edients are varied. For this purpose chop separately the white part of a cold chicken or veal, the yolks of four or five eggs and the same number of whites, a large handful of parsley, six anchovies, some beet-root, some pickled red cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or any- thing well flavoured or of a good colour. Put a saucer or a china basin into a round dish, or a smaller dish into a long one ; then make rows round it, wide at the bottom, and growing smaller towards the top, making choice of such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colour, spun butter at the top, or butter worked into what form is liked, or a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in. You need net, unless you please, put anything in the dish, as the-salmagundi may be laid in rows, or put into the half whites of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting off a little bit at the round end. In the latter case each half egg has one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. SALMON. When salmon is fresh and good the gills and flesh are of a bright red, the scales clear, and the whole fish is stiff. When just killed there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives it great fii-mness: by keeping this melts down, and the fish becomes richer. SALMON- To Boil. Put into the kettle spring water enough to cover the fish, but boil the liver in a separate saucepan. When the water in the kettle boils put in a handful of salt, and take off the scum as soon and as fast as it rises ; then lay in the salmon, first cleans- ing and scraping it, and if it is thick let it boil gently for the space of about fifteen minutes to a pound. If some horseradish is added while boiling it will improve the flavour. Serve up with lobster, anchovy, or shrimp sauce. SALMON : To " Carve. One part of a salmon is much fatter and richer than the other. It is common, therefore, to give to those who like both a thin slice of each: for the one cutSAL I! 4at ]: it out of tlie belly part iii tne direction a ^•liicli is tlie fattest; aud for those who prefer the most fleshy cut it from the back in the line c d. Salmon with small heads, aud thick in the neck. SALMON : To Choose. This fish is chiefly confined to the northern climates; but in all parts of Europe where it is found the size is nearly the same, from 20 lbs. to 40 lbs. It abounds with volatile salt and oily particles, which render it nutritive, strengthening, and invigorating; but if eaten too freely it occa- - sions indigestion. Salmon should be kept a short time before it is dressed, and it is commonly better in the London market than jn those parts where it is first caught, The Severn and Thames salmon are accounted the best at Billingsgate. The prime season is from April to June. When raw the flesh, but parti- cularly the gills, is of a fine red colour, the eyes and scales are bright, and the entire fish is stiff. Those with small heads and thick necks are reckoned the best. Pickled salmon to be good must have the scales stiff and shining, the flesh oily to the touch, and parting into flakes ■without breaking. Devoid of these qualities it is unwholesome. SALMON, BAKED. Cut a nice piece of salmon into slices about an inch thick, and make a forcemeat as follows Take equal quantities of the flesh of salmon and eel, with a few mush- rooms; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cloves, and beat the whole together till very fine, (Boil the crumb of a small roll in some milk, beat with it four eggs till it is thick, let it cool, and bind the whole together with four raw eggs. Take the skin from the salmon, and put the slices in a dish; cover each slice with the force- meat, pour melted butter over them, and then Strew bread crumbs all over; lay a crust round the dish, and place oysters all round ; put it in the oven, and let it bake till of a fine brown colour; then take it out, pour over it a little melted butter with some red wine boiled in it, and the juice of a lemon, SALMON, BOILED (Aberdeen way). When the water is hot put salt into it, and stir it well; taste it, and if strong enough to force you to cast it from your mouth it will do. When the water boils put in the fish; as soon as it boils ^igam give it twenty minutes for a salmon, and sixteen for a grilse. When salmon is cut iw slices an inch thick let them boil ten minutes| Serve with a sauce tureen of the liquor the fish? was boiled in. SALMON, BOILED (Berwick way). The tail of the salmon is first cut off near and below the last fin ; the fish is next cut up the back, keeping the bone on one side, and then cut up into pieces of ^ lb. each, the blood well washed out of the fish in cold water, but the scales not to be removed. A pickle to be made of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, and when boiling the fish to be put in, and boiled very quickly for fifteen minutes. During the boiling the scum to be taken off carefully as soon as it rises. Sauces—lobster, melted butter, and anchovy. The hardest water is preferable for boiling salmon. SALMON, BOILED (Scotch way). When a salmon is to be cooked where it can be newly taken, the pot is kept ready boiling with salt and vinegar, that no time may be lost in cooking it, as it is put in the moment it is taken. As hardly any one who is accustomed to eat salmon done in that^'ay will eat any other, so, if the nets are drawn early in the morning, the fish is boiled immediately, and is eaten cold with oil and vinegar. In Scotland the general practice is to eat hot and cold salmon with vinegar alone, and at good tables an Englishman might find it, to his astonishment, with no other sauce. SALMON, BOILED (in Wine). Season with pepper and salt some slices of bacon cut thin, and l|lb, of beef; put these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece of fresh salmon cut out of the middle, then pour in just as much water as will cover it, and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the salmon is almost done; then pour the water away, and put in two quarts of white wine, with an onion cut in slices, and some thyme and sweet marjoram picked from th^ stalks; let them stew gently, and while they are doing cut a sweetbread into thin slices; then cut the slices across, and stew them in a sauce- pan in some rich gravy. When they are done enough add a quarter of a pint of essence of ham, take up the salmon, lay it on a dish, and serve it with the sweetbread, and its sauce poured over. SALMON, BP-OILED. Season some slices of salmon, cut about an inch in thickness, with pepper and salt; wrap each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the end of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire for six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. SALMON, COLLARED. Split such a part of the fish as will be sufficient to make a hand- some roll; wash and wipe it; then rub it well inside and out; season it very highly withSAL R AL [ 412 I salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, all well mixed together; then roll it tightly, and bind it; put it into a stewpan, with as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it; add bay leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper; cover closely, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil the liquor quickly, and pour it over when cold. Serve with fennel. SALMON, CRIMPED. When the salmon is scaled and gutted cut off the head and tail, cut the body through in slices an inch and a half thick, and throw them into a large pan of pump water. When they are all put in sprinkle a handful of bay salt upon the water, stir it about, and then take out the fish. Set a large deep stewpan on the fire, boil the head and tail, but do not split the head : put in some salt. When they have boiled ten minutes skim the water very clean, and put in the slices. When they are sufficiently boiled take them out, lay the head and tail in the centre of the dish, and the slices round. You may, if you please, dress the head and tail alone, and serve the slices another time. SALMON, DRIED. Cut the fish down, and take out the inside and roe ; scale it, rub the whole with common salt, and hang it to drain for twenty-four hours. Pound 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, 2 ozs. of bay salt, and 2 ozs. of coarse sugar; mix these well, rub them into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish for two days ; then rub it well with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be fit to dry. Wipe it well after draining, and hang it either in a wood chimney or in a dry place, keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled on paper, and only just warmed through. Egg sauce and mashed potatoes are usually served with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next to the head. SALMON, DRIED : To Deess. Lay it in soak for two or three hours, and then broil it, shaking a little pepper over it. SALMON, GRILLED. Put a piece of salmon into a dish, and pour over it some good oil, to which add a little fine salt, bay leaf, parsley, and scallions cut in two; then turn the fish, and let it soak for some time, after which lay it on a gridiron, taking care to baste it occasionally with the seasoning. Tiy the flesh by raising it with the point of a knife, and at the thick part of the back, and if red let it remain a little longer. ^ When done turn it on a dish, take off the skin, pour some melted butter over the salmon, and strew capers thereon. SALMON, MARINATED. Take two hand- some slices of salmon, and marinate them in oil and lemon juice, salt and pepper; broil them about two-thirds, and then put them into a saucepan with their marinade ; set them on hot ashes to simmer for half an hour, put them on a dish, cover them with grated bread, colour with a salamander, and serve. SALMON, PICKLED. Cut a salmon in two or three pieces, put them in a kettle, and set it on the fire, with a sufficient quantity of water to cover the fish, and plenty of salt. As soon as it begins to boil set it aside to simmer very gently until done ; then take it off the fire, and let it stand until cold ; take it out, lay the pieces closely together in a tub to pickle, and over them five anchovies, a small quantity of pounded salt- petre, and a quarter of a pint of sweet oil. Being thus prepared, put the top of the salmon liquor into a stewpan, to which add the same quantity of white vinegar; put it on the fire to skim, and boil it for two or three minutes ; take it off, and let it cool. When cold pour it over the salmon, and tie it down, in three days turn it, and in a week's time it will be fit for use. This is merely in a small way. A great quantity being done at once requires neither oil nor anchovies. Serve garnished with fennel. SALMON, PICKLED : To Dkess. Soak a piece of salmon all night in pump water, then lay it on a fish plate, and put it in a stewpan, with three spoonsful of vinegar, a little mace and some whole pepper in a small muslin bag, an onion, a nutmeg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon- peel, and i lb. of butter rolled in flour ; cover the stewpan very closely, and let it simmer over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour; then take it up, lay it on a dish, and keep it hot before the fire. Let the sauce boil till it is of a proper con- sistence, take out the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, and serve the sauce over the fish. SALMON PIE. Take a piece of fresh salmon, clean it well, and season it with salt, mace, and nutmeg ; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the dish, and lay the salmon therein. Take a boiled lobster, pick out the flesh, chop it small, bruise the body, and mix it well in melted butter ; pour the whole over the salmon, cover it up, and let it be well baked. SALMON, POTTED. Take off the heads and fins ; gut, clean, and wipe, but do not wash them ; mix equal quantities of salt, saltpetre, and allspice; rub, pack them into an earthen pan for twelve hours, take them out, and let them drain ; for, if they are drained from the beginning, the seasoning is lost before it takes effect. Prepare and mix in fine powder eighteen blades of mace, thirty cloves, ten long peppers, a nutmeg, ^ oz. of pepper, and 1 oz. of bay salt; rub the fish gently that they may not be bruised; pack them into a deep earthen pan, and put over them as much butter as will completely cover them; cover with white and strongSAL SAL [ il3 ] brown paper; tie down closely, and put them into a moderate oven, or after the bread is drawn ; leave them to soak for four hours, let them cool, pour off the butter, and pack them into proper packing pans as closely as possible, with their bellies down: they should be only one deep. Have the sizes equal, so that they may pack smoothly; press them gently together, smooth them over, and when perfectly cold cover them deeply with butter, and when it cools put them away. Herrings, to pass for trout, must be reddened with cochineal. ' Send the potted fish to table in the potted pans. Boil up the juice with wine or catsup for fish sauce. Serve any of these potted fishes in a rich wine stock and butter sauce very hot; but the fish must not boil. These diff'erent potted fishes are often stored in families, who hoard them up for occasions to serve them cold, and never think of serving them in rich hot sauces when they are even in want of variety. SALMON, ROLLED. Take half a salmon, bone it, cut off the head, scale, and wash it; make a forcemeat with oysters, crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; put this to the salmon, and roll it up tightly; put it into a very deep dish, and set it to bake in a quick oven. Serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce poured over. SALMON, SALAD OF. Put into a saucepan four dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, two of liquid jelly, ten of oil, a minced ravigote, salt, and pepper; cut a boiled salmon in pieces, and put them into the above sauce to colour them. When cold lay them on a dish, and pour the sauce over. SALOOP. Boil a little water, wine, lemon- peel, and sugar together; then mix with a small quantity of the powder, previously rubbed smooth in a little cold water; stir the whole well together, and boil for a few minutes. SALPICON OMELETS. Whip up a dozen eggs, and fry half the number as usual in butter; then lay the omelet in a dish; spread a salpicon, composed of carp roes, livers, &c., of fish, all over it; make a second omelet of the remaining eggs, lay it on the salpicon, and serve with any sauce you please. SALPICON TOAST. Make a salpicon with veal sweetbreads, morels, artichoke bot- toms, and a slice of streaked bacon, all cut into dice; put them into a stewpan, with some veal or fowl gravy ; set the pan on the fire, and then thicken the salpicon with the yolks of four eggs. Cut some thin slices of bread (all the same thick- ness), toast and spread the salpicon over them, and lay them in sandwiches. Beat up the whites of eggs, which, with a spoon, pour all over the toast; then fry them in a very hot pan. Serve with veal or mutton gravy, or blond. SALPICONS are made of all sorts of meats and vegetables, such as truffles, artichoke bottoms, and mushrooms ; but everything must be put in in equal proportions. It is necessary to have them all cooked apart, so that they may be properly done as each requires. Salpi- cons are considered of the first style, and very economical, as a few left things which could not appear by themselves can be tossed up in a minute. SALSIFY is a black root. Scrape it well, taking care to leave no spots, and then soak it in vinegar and water. Fill up a saucepan with water ; add to it 1 oz. of butter, four dessert-spoonsful of vinegar, and some salt ; set it on the fire, and as soon as the water boils put in the salsify, and let it boil an hour. Drain, and serve either with white or brown sauce. SALSIFY, FRIED. When the salsify is dressed as above, drain and fry it lightly in a white sauce, and let it cool; then dip it in the hatter and fry it. Salsify is likewise sometimes soaked in a marinade of vinegar, with salt and pepper, previously to frying. SALT, COMMON, is now known to be com- posed of a very corrosive gas, called chlorine, the base of all bleaching preparations, and a metal called sodium, the base of the soda so well known in the laundry. Upon a most careful examination of diff'erent specimens of common salt it appears that the chief, if not the only cause of the difference in the qualities of both foreign and domestic salts is in the size and compactness of the crystals ; that that kind of salt which possesses most eminently the combined properties of hardness, compactness, and perfection of crystals, is best adapted for the purpose of preserving fish and other provisions, and merely so because it will remain permanently between the different layers, or will be very gradually dissolved by the fluids that e.xude from the provisions, thus furnishing a slow but constant supply of satu- rated brine. But, for preparing pickles and other common purposes, the small-grained salt answers equally well, or perhaps, on account of its ready solubility, even better. Although a prejudice exists in favour of bay salt, as it is called, for the purpose of salting fish, &c., yet M'e have reason to know that the greater part of what is sold for bay salt in this country is an English manufacture, often tinged with umber or some such colouring material. Salt is of most extensive use as a preservative of food, as a condiment, and in various processes in the arts. As a condiment it appears to be essential to the human constitution, although, when taken in immoderate quantity, it has the singularSAL r 4L4 ] SAN property of producing thirst. As a medicine, and given in moderate doses, it is tonic and anthelmintic; in larger doses, purgative; and externally, stimulant. In the ordinary mode of using it there can be little doubt of its being useful in the process of digestion; and some- times, when taken more freely, it proves useful in dyspepsia and worms. In large doses it is jaid to check vomiting of blood; and it may be used as a purgative, although it is not often employed as such. Dissolved in a pint of luke- warm water, in the proportion of from i oz. to 1 oz., it forms a common domestic clyster. It is used also, dissolved iu water, as a fomentation to sprains and bruises; and dissolved in a large portion of water it forms the best stimulant general bath, whether used cold, tepid, or in a hot state. , _ . . Its dose as a tonic, &c., is from 10 gral::3^ to J scruple ; as a purge, from ^ 4z^'£QLiBf^'.<i It ehould be largely diluted. v-f- ? - SALT PUDDING. -Take a pint of milk, four dessert-spoonsful of flour, a little suet ghred fine, four eggs, salt, and pounded ginger; mix first the eggs and milk, then add the flour, &c. ; put more flour if necessary to give it consistence, tie your pudding in a buttered cloth, and boil it two hours. lis lo SALT, SPICED. Take 4 drachms of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two of white pepper, two of allspice, two of bay leaf, two of basil, and two of thyme: these three latter articles should be dried in an oven. Put them all into a mortar, pound them to an im- palpable powder, and sift it. Take I lb. of fine •white salt, dry it thoroughly in an oven or stove, and pound it as fine as possible; sift and mix with it 1 oz. of the above-mentioned spices, and amalgamate them thoroughly. Keep the spiced salt in a tin box which will shut perfectly close. Use it in the proportion of 4 drachms to 1 lb. of boned veal. SALTING MEAT. In the summer season especially meat is frequently spoiled by the cook forgetting to take out the kemels, one in the udder of a round of beef, in the fat iu tho middle of the round, those about the thick end of the Hank, &c. If these are not taken out all the salt in the world will not keep the meat. The art of salting meat is to rub the salt thoroughly and evenly into every part, and to fill the holes with salt where the kernels were taken out, and where the butcher's skewers were. ■ A round of beef -of about 25 lbs. will take ) ^ lb. of salt, to be rubbed in all at first, and requires to be turned every day and rubbed with the brine : it will be ready for dressing in four or five days if you do not wish it very salt. . .jj biiii j_. ,1) aiiiiyi/tiiUUJi iii In summer the sooner meat is salted after it is killed the better, and care must be taken to defend it from the flies. In winter it will eat the shorter and tenderer if kept a few days, according to the temperature of the weather, until its fibre has become short and tender, as these changes do not take place after it has been acted upon by the salt. In frosty weather take care that the meat is not frozen, and warm the salt in a frying-pan. The exti'emes of heat and cold are equally unfavourable for the process of salting. In the former the meat changes before the salt can affect it; in the latter it is so hardened, and its juices are so congealed, that the salt cannot penetrate it. If you wish it red rub it first with saltpetre, in the proportion of | oz., and tbe like quantity of moist sugar, to 1 lb. of common salt. You may impregnate meat with a very little agreeable vegetable flavour by pounding some sweet herbs and an onion with the salt. You may make it still moi'e relishing by adding a little zest or savoury spice. SALTPETRE. See Nitre. SALVE. See Ointments. SAMLET : To Choose. This is the smallest of the trout kind, and by some it has been taken for the fry of the salmon, whence it has seemed to have taken its name. It has also a great resemblance to the common trout, but differs from both in some respects. It is found iu the northern rivers, as well as those of Wales, and is much esteemed. SAMPHIRE ; To Dry. Take it in bunches as it grows. Set a large deep stewpan full of water on the fire ; as soon as it boils throw in a little salt, and put in the samphire; when it' looks of a fine green remove the pan directly from the fire, take out the samphire with a fork, and lay it on sieves to drain. When cold lay it on earthen plates, and strew sugar well over it; next day turn it on a sieve, and strew it with sugar : keep turning daily until it is dry. Take care the stove is not too hot. SAMPHIRE: To Pickle. Lay some samphire that is green in a pan, sprinkle over it two or three handsful of salt, cover it with spring water, and let it lie for twenty-four hours; then put it into a large brass saucepan, throw in a handful of salt, cover the pan closely and set it on a very slow fire. Let it stand till it is quite green and crisp; take it off, for if it becomes soft it is spoiled; put it into a jar, cover it closely, and when it is cold tie it down. SANDAL WOOD. This is obtained from several species of Santalum. White sandal icood is derived from Santalum album, a tree grow-' ing in India, and in the islands of the Soutb Pacific Oceaa.^ The-woQdis^vei;y.hard^heavy,*Qd'i m I ■SAN susceptible of a high polish, is almost inodorous, and its taste is slightly bitter. It is esteemed by the native physicians as refreshing and sedative, and is administered in remittent fevers and diseases of the urinary passages. The yellow or citron sandal wood is from S. Frey- cinetianum, a native of the Sandwich, Mar- quesas, and Feejee Islands, and near the head of Spencer's Gulf, in Australia. This is the wood so highly esteemed in the East for its fine perfume and valuable timber. It is formed into all kinds of fancy furniture, boxes, fans, and other articles ; that which is of a pale colour they burn iu their temples as incense, and in private apartments , and use long, thin slips of the wood, inserted in a mixture of rice paste and sawdust, as candles, which emit a pleasing fragrance. The delightful odour of the wood is due to the presence of an essential oil, heavier than water, readily congealed, and having a peculiar sweet smell. It is employed by perfumers, both in Europe and India, for adul- terating attar of roses. The powder of the wood, rubbed on the skin, allays the irritation occasioned by mosquito bites. SANDARACH. This resin is obtained from a coniferous tree, called Callitris guadrivalvis, allied to the Arbor-vitae. The tree grows iu Morocco, Barbary, and Arabia, and attains the height of fifteen or twenty feet. The resin exudes from the tree spontaneously during the heats ; it has the odour and taste of pine resin, and a slightly acrid taste ; it melts with heat, diffusing a strong balsamic odour, and easily inflames. It was formerly given as a medicine internally, and it enters into the composition of various ointments and plasters. It is princi- pally used in making varnish, and sometimes employed in incense; and it also constitutes the pounce used after writing has been erased to prevent the ink from running. SANDERS WOOD Pterocarpus santalinus furnishes the 7'ed sunders wood of commerce. The tree is a native of India, inhabiting the mountains of Coromandel and Ceylon, where it attains the height of upwards of sixty feet. The wood is dark red, with black veins, heavy, close- grained, capable of receiving a good polish, and sinking in water. It is only the old wood which is employed as a dye, young wood containing very little colouring matter; and the principle of this colouring matter has been called santalin. Red Sanders is very little used in this countiy as a dye stuff, but apothecaries often employ it to give a red colour to tinctures. In India it is used for dyeing silk and cotton; the Arabs use it as an astringent; and in this country it is frequently employed as the basis of various dentifrice mixtures. SANDWICHES : To Make. These are either made of'meat or poultry, potted lobsters or shrimps, grated tongue, anchovy, sausage meat, slices of ham, or beef. The last is most common, and must be laid between two slices of bread thin and neatly, without gristle or skin. SARDINES. Take two dozen fresh sar- dines, dry them thoroughly, flour, and fry them in clarified butter. They are also salted and eaten in the same manner as anchovies, for which they are frequently used as substitutes. SARSAPARILLA is the root of a Smilax, but of which of the species is uncertain. It comes from the West Indies and South America, This drug has a glutinous, somewhat bitter, and agreeable taste, but is totally devoid of smell. It is highly esteemed on account of its demul- cent and farinaceous qualities, and has been suc- cessfully administered in the different forms of decoction, extract, and powder, iu cases of carious and ill-disposed cancers, or other sores. It is taken in dosSs of I oz. of the root boiled in half a pint of water till the third part be evaporated; or ^ drachm of the extract. In either of these forms it acts by the skin, as well as by the urinary passages, and is a mild, though inert remedy, on which account it is generally com* bined with the sassafras, guaiacum, liquorice,- and other substances, iu a decoction of the woods. - SASSAFRAS is the wood and bark of a tree closely allied to the laurel, and now called by* botanists Sassafras officinale. Sassafras wood, root, and bark have a fra- grant odour and a sweetish aromatic taste. Their medical qualities depend on an essential oil, which may be obtained by distilling the chips or the bark in water. The bark is consi- derably more powerful than either the wood or, root. Water extracts the virtues of sassafras partially, alcohol completely. Sassafras was formerly in considerablef estimation in a variety of complaints, but it has long ceased to be considered of much efficacy by the faculty. Some persons, however, continue to drink sassafras tea as a medicine, with only, perhaps, fancied benefit. The oil, as a warm aromatic and stimulant, may be occasionally useful in flatulence. The dose is from 2 to 10 drops on sugar. Sassafras tree, under the name of saloop, may still be found selling in the London streets. - SATIN. See Scouring. SAUCE ALLEMANDB. To a few slices of ham and a few trimmings of poultry add three or four shallots, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, a little tai'ragon, and a few spoonsful of gravy Stock; set the stewpan on the fire to simmer gently for half an hour, then put in as much cullis as you will want sauce, and when it has boiled a few minutes-, squeeze into it a SevilleS AU C ] S AU orange or a lemon, and season it -with Cayenne pepper and salt. SAUCE ASHfiE. Chop very small some pickled cucumbers, capers, parsley, shallots, the breast of a boiled fowl, some lean ham, carrots, whites and yolks of eggs, a good seasoned cuUis, and a little mushroom catsup: simmer the whole together a quarter of an hour. SAUCE, BROWN. Take 1 lb. or 2 lbs. of steaks, 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of veal, some pickings of fowls, carrots, and onions; put all these into a saucepan with a glass of water, and set it on a brisk fire. When scarcely any moisture remains put it on a slow fire, that the jelly may take colour without burning, and as soon as it is brown moisten it with stock or water; add a bunch of parsley and green onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, and some champignons; salt it well, and set it on the fire for three hours; then strain, dilute a little roux with your liquor, boil it an hour over a gentle fire, take off all the fat, and run it through a bolter. SAUCE, CARRIER. Scrape a small stick of horseradish, cut an onion or two in thin slices, put these into a sauce tureen, with a little vinegar and whole pepper, and set the tureen in a dripping-pan under a shoulder of mutton whilst roasting. Serve the sauce quite hot with the meat. SAUCE, CHRISTOPHER NORTH'S. To a glass of port wine add a table-spoonful of lemon juice, two of Harvey's sauce, a dessert- spoonful of mushroom catsup, the same of pounded loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of Cayenne pepper, and a small quantity of salt; mix these well together, and set it to heat, but it should not boil. It is excellent either with game or meat. SAUCE, DUTCH. Put six spoonsful of water and four of vinegar into a saucepan, and when warm thicken the same with the yolks of two eggs; make it quite hot, but not boiling; squeeze therein the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. This is good with meat or fish. SAUCE, HARVEY'S. Chop twelve an- chovies, bones and all, very small ; add I oz. of Cayenne pepper, six spoonsful of soy, six ditto of good walnut pickle, three heads of garlic chopped (not very small), J oz. of cochineal, two heads of shallot chopped (not very small), and one gallon of vinegar ; let the whole stand fourteen days, stir it well twice or thrice every day, pass it through a jelly bag, and repeat this till it is perfectly clear; then bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork. SAUCE, ITALIAN SALAD Mix to- gether three table-spoonsful oi sauce toumee, one of mustard, some tarragon and chervil shred small, with three table-spooa^ful of Florence oil, putting it in, however, a little at a time. When perfectly smooth add also by degrees a glass of tarragon vinegar and a little salt. This sauce cannot be mixed too much. SAUCE, MINCED. Put into a saucepan parsley, shallots, champignons, of each a spoonful shred, half a glass of vinegar, and a littlo pepper; put them on the fire till there remains scarcely any vinegar, when add four ladlesful of Espagnole and the same of stock; reduce, and take the fat from the sauce. When done put iu a spoonful of capers and two or three gherkins, both shred; pour it into another saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie. Just before it is sent to table pound an anchovy or two with a little butter, which beat up with the sauce. SAUCE PIQUANTE. Put into a sauce- pan a quarter of a pint of vinegar, a baj' leaf, and a little thyme; let this remain on the fire until reduced to half; add two ladlesful of Espagnole and two of stock, set it on the fire again, and when about the consistence of clear bouilli it is sufficiently done. Put salt according to taste. SAUCE, POOR MAN'S. Pick a handful of parsley leaves from the stalks, and mince them fine; strew over these a little salt, shred fine six young green onions, add the parsley to them, and put the whole into a sauce-boat, with three table-spoonsful of oil, five of vinegar, some ground black pepper, and salt; stir all these together, and send it up to table. You may add thereto pickled French beans or gherkins cut fine, or a little grated horseradish. SAUCE ROBERT. Cut a few onions into dice, which put in a frying-pan with a bit of butter, and fry them lightly. When nicely browned add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a ladle- ful of stock, the same of vinegar, some salt and pepper, reduce it to a proper thickness, and when ready for table stir iu two dessert-spoons- ful of mustard. SAUCE, QUIN'S. Dissolve six anchovies in a glass of port wine; bruise six shallots, and boil them in a quart of walnut catsup, with cloves, mace, and long pepper; let it cool, and mix in the anchovies, with half a pint of port wine. All sauces ought to be put in small bottles. SAUCE, ROMAR'S. Cut 1 lb. of veal and ^ lb. of ham into dice, and put them into a saucepan, with two legs of fowl, three carrots, four onions, two bay leaves, three cloves, a littlo basil, ^ lb. of butter, and some salt: set these on a brisk fire. In the meanwhile pound the yolks of twelve hard eggs to a paste, which put to the above, and stir them in till the butter is entirely melted; then pour in by degrees a quart of cream, and set the saucepan again on the firo for an hour and a half, stirring all the time : ifSAU SAU [ 417 } it be too thick acid more cream or milk. When gufficiently done strain it through a bolter. SAUCE, STE. MENEHOULD. Melt some butter nicely with a little cream or milk and flour, and cook it with mushroom stalks, parsley, young onions, and shallots; strain and add, minced nicely. SAUCE, SAVOY. Blanch some savoys, cut them in quarters, tie them up, and stew them •with any kind of meat till they are half done , then put them into a stewpan with some gravy, and simmer the whole till perfectly tender. SAUCE, SICILIAN. Put into a stewpan nearly a pint of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of essence of ham, half a lemon peeled and sliced thin, a few coriander seeds, and four cloves (the two latter bruised); set it on the fire, give it one boil, and add three cloves of garlic, a head of celery (sliced), two bay leaves, and a little basil; let it stand till reduced to half, pour in a glass of white wine, and strain it. If not sufi&ciently thick add a bit of butter rolled in flour. SAUCE, SPANISH. Take the meat from a cold roasted partridge, and put it into a mortar, with partridge livers and truffles; pound them into a rather liquid paste, moistening with some good gravy, put in two glasses of red wine, two or three slices of onion, a clove or two of garlic, and two glasses of the paste; make it quite hot, then strain it into another stewpan, and add to it the partridge and a little essence of ham. SAUCE, A SUPER-EXCELLENT. Take a pint of port wine and the same quantity of mushroom catsup ; half a pint of walnut liquor, or that of any other pickle; 4 ozs. of anchovies powdered; of fresh lemon-peel pared thin, 1 oz ; of peeled dried shallots and horseradish the same quantity; of allspice and black pepper, each pulverised, \oz., of Cayenne, 1 drachm; or, instead of this, curry powder, 3 drachms; and of celery seed bruised, 1 drachm, all avoirdupois weight. Keep these well stopped and shaken for a fortnight, and then strain off for use. You may add thereto a quarter of a pint of soy or thick browning. SAUCE, SWEET. Put some cinnamon into a saucepan, with as much water as will cover it; set it on the fire, and when it has boiled up once or twice add two spoonsful of powder sugar, a quarter of a pint of white wine, and two bay leases. Give the whole one boil, and then strain it for table. SAUCE TOURNEE. Put three or four pieces of lean ham into a stewpan, with a little butter and some champignons; set it on a moderate fire, stirring till the butter begins to look clear; then put the champignons into another stewpan, and add a sufficient quantity VOL. II. of flour to the butter to make it the consistence of batter; mix it well in, and when smooth put to it three table-spoonsful of strained consomme; stir it in, then add more at different times until you have as much as j'ou require; set it on the fire, and let it boil slowly, stirring constantly. When reduced to the proper thickness, which is that of good melted butter, strain it through the tammy to use when occasion requires. SAUCE, UNIVERSAL. Take half a dozen split shallots, a clove of garlic, two bay leaves, basil, thyme, truffles, tarragon leaves, ^ oz. of bruised mustard seed, some Seville orange-peel, \ oz. of cloves, the same of mace, double the quantity of long pepper, and 2 ozs. of salt; put all these ingredients to infuse in the juice of a lemon, half a glass of verjuice, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, and a pint of white wine ; put them into ajar, cover it as closely as possible,' and set it on hot ashes for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time let it stand to settle, and when clear pour it off carefully: strain and bottle it. This infusion will keep a long time if closely corked, and may be used with all kinds of meat and fish. It may also be added, to other sauces. SAUCE, WHITE. Beat up i lb. of butter and a tea-spoonful of flour: season with salt and pepper. When well worked up add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar and a little water, set it on the fire, and stir till thick. Be careful not to let it boil. SAUCE, WHITE FISH. Simmer together an anchovy, a little horseradish scraped, some mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, a glass of white wine, and a quarter of a pint of water. When properly reduced strain it, then add two spoonsful of cream and a piece of butter rolled in flour, set it on the fire again, and keep stirring till it boils. When ready to serve put in a little catsup and some lemon juice. SAUCE, WINE. Mix a spoonful of flour in a tea-cupful of water, with two spoonsful of sugar and one of butter; stir this in half a pint of boiling water, let it boil a few minutes, and add a glass of wine and some nutmeg. SAUCE, WOW-WOW. Chop some parsley very fine, cut in quarters two or three small piclded cucumbers or walnuts, divide them into small pieces, and set them aside till wanted. In the meantime put into a saucepan a .piece of butter about the size of an egg, and when melted stir into it a table-spoonful of fine flour, and about half a pint of broth in which the meat is boiled ; add a table-spoonful of vinegar, a3 much mushroom catsup or port wine, or some broth, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard. Simmer the whole till it is as thick as you want it; then put in the parsley and pickle already S ESAU C 418 3 SAU prepared to get warm, and either pour the whole over the beef or send it up separately. SAUER-BRANTON. To a sirloin of Leef of 20 lbs. take one table-spoonful of allspice, four dozen cloves, a lemon sliced, a clove of garlic, laurel and bay leaves, parsley and sweet herbs, of each a small quantity. Stick the cloves in the meat, which lay in the pan, with the above articles over it, and just covered with vinegar ; let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight, turning it daily, and keeping the pan closely covered: two days before dressing the beef, lard, and then replace it in the pickle. Such a piece of beef will require eight hours' roasting, and should be done on a cradle spit, a good gravy being made to baste it with, as the vinegar may make it too acid. This pickle will be strong enough for a small leg of mutton, and, if the vinegar be good, it ought also to serve for a hare. SAUER-KRAUT. Have ready a vinegar, white wine, or brandy cask, about four inches from the bottom of which put in a vent peg. Take a number of the best white cabbages, strip off all the outside leaves, and slice the hearts transversely as thin as possible until you have as much as you require ; then lay over the bottom of the cask osier or vine twigs to the height of the vent peg; on these put alternate layers of sliced cabbage and salt, in the pro- portion of 1 lb. of the latter to 50 lbs. of the former : let each layer of cabbages be at least three inches thick. When the cask is about two-thirds full put cabbage leaves all over, cover them with a cloth and a round piece of wood which will exactly fit the inside of the cask, and place a stone or heavy weight upon it. In four or five days' time draw out the peg, and let the brine run off; add more salt, and repeat this operation, at intervals of a month at latest, until that which flows from the cask is perfectly clear and free from smell. Some add juniper and caraways to the salt in making sauer-kraut. Be careful to keep the cask in a moderate tempera- ture during the whole year. SAUSAGES. Common farm-house sausages are made with nearly equal parts of fat and lean pork coarsely chopped, and skin which has been previously turned inside out, scraped very thin, washed with exceeding nicety, and wiped very dry, when they will remain good for some length of time. Odd scraps and trimmings of pork are usually taken for sausage meat when the pig is killed and cut up at home; but the chine and blade-bone are preferred, in general, for the purpose. The pork rinds will make a strong and almost flavourless jelly, which may be used with excellent effect for stock, and which, with the addition of some pork bones, plenty of vegetables, and some dried peas, will make a very nutritious soup for those who do not ohject to the pork flavour which the bones will give. Half an ounce of salt, and nearly or quite J oz. of pepper, will sufficiently season each pound of the sausage meat. SAUSAGES, BOLOGNA. Take the legs and shoulders of a pig, from which cut all the lean, and mix it well with a seasoning made of salt, pepper, coriander, cloves, cinnamon, nut- meg, and bay leaf. When properly flavoured take some bacon, lard, and leaf fat, and cut the whole into dice ; mix the fat and lean together, put it into ox-guts, tie up the ends, lay the sausages in a pan of water with salt and salt- petre, cover the pan closely, and leave it. In a week's time take out the sausages, drain them, tie them between two pieces of wood, and hang them up to dry and smoke. When dry untie them, and rub each over with oil and the ashes of vine twigs mixed together. Keep them in a dry place. SAUSAGES, BRUNSWICK. Take 5 lbs. of lean pork, 5 lbs. of leaf fat and liver, and 2 lbs. of good bacon; chop the pork, liver, and lean of the bacon finely, and cut the leaf fat in dice ; season with 2 ozs. of salt in fine powder, 1 oz. of pepper, ^ oz. of ground saltpetre, with a shallot or two, eight cloves of garlic, sugar, and marjoram or sage. This quantity may be divided, and flavoured in different ways: if so, the sausages ought to be labelled. Mix the whole together with a quart of good ale, and leave it a day or two till it is well incorporated. Fill the skins, but not too full : boil or smoke them for eating raw. They are excellent pounded. SAUSAGES, OXFORD. Chop Hlb. of pork and the same quantity of veal, both clear of skin and sinews ; add thereto f lb. of beef suet; mince and mix them; steep the cnimb of a penny loaf in water, put it to the meat, and with it some dried sage, pepper, and salt. SAUSAGES, ROYAL. Mince small the meat of a partridge, a capon or pullet, a piece of gammon and other bacon, and a bit of leg of veal; shred also some parsley, chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these together, and season with pepper and salt, beaten spice, and garlic ; bind the whole with the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs, and a little cream. When thoroughly mixed roll the preparation into thick pieces, which wrap in very thin slices of fillet of veal well beaten with a rolling-pin. Each sausage should be about the thickness of a man's wrist, and of a proportionate length. Line an oval stewpan with slices of bacon and thin beefsteaks, put in the sausages, cover them with beefsteaks and bacon, shut the stewpan very closely, and set it on a moderate fire; put hot embers on the lid, and let it stand ten or twelve hours; then take it off, and when coldf 419 } SAV SGA take out the sausages carefully; remove the Teal and all the fat, with a sharp knife cut them into slices, and serve cold. SAVE ALL PUDDINGS. Put scraps of Iread into a saucepan, with a pint of milk to every pound; set it on a trivet till it hoils; beat it up until smooth; then add three eggs, 3 ozs. of sugar, some nutmeg, ginger, or allspice, and stir the whole well; butter a dish, put in the pudding, and strew over it 2 ozs. of suet chopped finely. Four ounces of currants will enrich it much. Bake it three quarters of an hour. SAVELOYS: To Make. Take 3 lbs. of young pork free from bone, skin, and sinews, and let it lie one day in 1 oz. of saltpetre and 1 lb. of common salt; chop the meat finely, put in three tea-spoonsful of pepper, twelve leaves of sage chopped small, and 1 lb. of grated bread; mix these well, fill the skins, and bake them one hour and a half in a slack oven. They may be eaten hot or cold. SAVORY: To Preserve. Mix it with clarified syrup, and reduce it to the consistence of a preserve. A little of this is used with pre- served beans. SAVOY SOUP. Cut into quarters and boil in a little water five large savoys ; strain the water off when they are cool; press them well to drain out all the water ; then put them into as much beef gravy as will cover them ; cover them very closely, set the saucepan on a moderate fire, and let them stew for two hours ; then set on a large frying-pan with J lb. of butter, and stir it well about; as soon as the savoys are nicely coloured add a quart of veal gravy, and mix them well together; soak some crusts of French rolls in the gravy in which tlie savoys are stewed, lay them in a tureen at a little dis- tance from each other, and then pour in the gravy and onions. SCALDS. See Burns and Scalds. SCALLED HEAD. Little ulcers arise in the skin of the hairy scalp. The humour they discharge has an offensive smell, and dries into a white brittle scab. Another symptom is an itching sensation. Should the face be the seat of the disorder it is called the milk-scab. It may be known from other eruptions by the offensive smell, and by the dry, white, brittle scab. Children are principally affected with this disease, particularly those of the poor. In many instances, however, it is propagated by con- tagion from using the same comb, impregnated with some of the matter from the head of a person labouring under the disease. The treatment, which should be early adopted, consists in shaving the head closely, and covering it afterwards with an ointment made of sulphur and pitch, or »nuriated mercury and pitch, e.g.: •—Take tar, i lb.; yellow wax, ^ oz. ; sublimed sulphur, 2 ozs. Dissolve, and make an oint- ment. Or, take tar, 2 ozs.; oxymuriate of mercury, 6 grains : mix, and make an ointment, previously to the use of which the head should be washed with the following lotion:—^Take sulphuret of potash, ^ oz.; lime water, 1 pint; compound liniment of soap, 1 oz.; or wash with a frothy solution of Castile soap and warm water by means of a piece of flannel, &c. In case of scalled head, cutting off the hair as closely as possible, washing the parts well with soap and water, and afterwards sprinkling them pretty thickly night and morning with powdered charcoal, have proved very efficacious. The diet to be observed in this disease should be wholesome and nutritive, avoiding salt meat or salted fish. If paid proper attention to in time it seldom proves difficult of cure. SCAMMONY is the dried juice of the root of Convolvulus scammonia, a native of Syria and the Levant. It is an efficacious and powerful cathartic, very eligible in worm cases, and in the disordered state of bowels which so com monly occurs in children. Dose, 3 to 15 grains, in the form of powders, triturated with sulphate of potash, sugar, or almonds : when given alone it is apt to irritate the fauces. It may be also administered in a solution, effected by tritu- rating it with a strong decoction of liquorice, and straining. SCARLET FEVER {Scarlatina). The scar- let fever is so called from the colour of the patient's skin, which appears as if it were tinged with red wine. It happens at any season of the year, but is most common towards the end of summer, at which time it often seizes whole families. Children and young persons are most subject to it. It begins, like other fevers, with coldness and shivering, without any violent sickness. Afterwards the skin is covered with red spots, which are broader, more florid, and less uniform than the measles. They continue two or three days, and then disappear, after which the cuticle, or scarf-skin, falls off. There is seldom any occasion for medicine in the mild form of this disease. The patient ought, however, to keep within doors, to abstain from flesh, strong liquors, and cordials, and to drink freely of cool diluting liquors. If the fever runs high the body must be kept gently open by emollient clysters, or small doses of nitre and rhubarb. A scruple of the former and 5 grains of the latter may be taken thrice a day, or oftener if necessary. Children and young persons are sometimes seized at the beginning of this disease with a kind of stupor and epileptic fits. In this case[ 420 ] SCO SCA tne feet and legs should be bathed m warm water, a large blister applied to the neck, and a dose of the syrup of poppies given every night till the patient recovers. To detennine gently to the sin-fa'ce of the body it may, from time to time, be advisable to give the saline medicine, with small doses of some antimonial:—Take saline draught, camphor mixture, of each 6 drachms; tartarised antimony, J grain; syrup of orange-peel, 1 drachm. Make a draught, to be taken every four hours- The scarlet fever, however, is not always Oi 80 mild a nature. It is sometimes attended with putrid or malignant symptoms, in which case it is always dangerous. In the malignant scarlet fever the patient is not only affected with coldness and shivering, but with languor, sick- ness, and great oppression; to these succeed excessive heat, nausea, and vomiting, with a soreness of the throat; the pulse is extremely quick, but small and depressed; the breathing frequent and laborious; the skin hot, but not quite dry; the tongue moist, and covered with a whitish mucus; the tonsils inflamed and ulcerated. When the eruption appears it brings no relief; on the contrary, the symptoms ge- nerally grow worse, and fresh ones come on, as purging, delirium, &c. Edematous swellings of the ankles are not unfrequent after severe attacks of scarlet fever. Sometimes the dropsy becomes general, and destroys the patient. The remedy for this species of dropsy consists in sharp purgatives of jalap and calomel. Eight grains of the former with three of the latter may be given every second morning. Indeed, it is from neglecting to keep the body sufficiently open during the disease that this kind of dropsy most generally originates. When this disease is mistaken for simple inflammation, and treated with repeated bleed ings, purging, and cooling medicines, it gene- rally proves fatal. In those cases which manifest a disposition to malignancy and putrescency it will be advisable to give the Peruvian bark in substance, decoction, or infusion, according as it may sit on the patient's stomach, along with the mineral acids (particularly the muriatic), wine, and other antiseptics, from the commence- ment of the disease." The treatment must be, in general, similar to that of the putrid fever, or of the malignant ulcerous sore throat. SCARS : To Prevent. The prevention of scars is a great object, particularly in exposed parts of the body. ' This may appear of little consequence, but it certainly is not so. Scars from abscesses in the necks of females excite in the mind of most of our sex a reluctance to associate with them; and thus many a fine young woman may, by such scars, be doomed to perpetual celibacy. No part of the practice of surgery has been more faulty than the man- ner in which abscesses of the neck have been treated. We have seen on one side of the neck large scars from abscesses that had been badly managed, whilst on the other side, where the treatment had been more skilful, scarcely any vestige of a wound was to be seen. Aperients, \nth calomel and rhubarb, should be given; evaporating lotions should be used; you must be strict as to regimen and diet; and the food must be nutritive, but not stimulating. The best mode to adopt in these cases is to open the abscess before the skin be much aS'ected, and as soon as a blush has appeared: thus scars will be in general prevented. It is desirable in opening the tumour to use a very fine knife, for two reasons: firstly, a small opening is made; secondly, it does not alarm the person. The knife used by Sir A, Cooper had a blade an eighth of an inch wide. When you press the sides of the wound take care to squeeze out all the solid flakes of matter to be met with in scrofulous tumours. If this be not attended to they will at last slough ; but if, on the contraiy, you care- fully avoid leaving any of that unorganised substance, adhesion will take place, and the wound will heal. Almost everything in these cases depends on getting rid of the solid matter. Bread poultices made with sulphate of zinc, lotions, and spirits may be afterwards used. There is a point of great importance to be at- tended to, and that is the direction in which you make the opening. Always make it transversely, and not in the axis of the neck, for when the wound heals it will scarcely be seen among the creases or folds of the skin. Do not open these tumours when they have a pm-ple blush upon them like the hue of a grape : the skin is thin, and will slough. SCENT BAG. See Pot Poueri. SCIATICA. See Lumbago. SCORBUTIC AFFECTIONS. See Scurvy. SCOURING. It may be necessary to pre- mise that those who carry on the art of scouring, and, indeed, every private person who wishes to practise it effectually, ought to be provided with a wooden instrument called a doll or maid, for the purpose of beating blankets, counter- panes, &c., in the tub, in order to clean them. It consists of four feet, which are made square ; each foot measures seven inches round, and is twenty inches long from the fork to the ex- tremity of the feet. From the fork to the top of the doll is sixteen inches, making the height of the doll altogether three feet. The upper part, or the shoulders, should be twenty-one inches in circumference : at the upper end is a cross pin, by which it is held firmly. The tub should be two feet and a half in height, the diameter of the top about two feet, and of theSCO C -^21 ] SCO bottom fourteen inches. It should also have a false bottom, in order that the under part of the tub may be level with the floor, by which the bottom will be prevented from being beaten out. It will be also desirable to have a peg or hook driven into the wall exactly over the tub, in order to attach whatever may be desired to it, to twist it and wring it well by manual labour, with the assistance of a short stick as a lever. To scour cotton counterpanes, quilts, dc. Cut 1 lb. of mottled soap into thin slices; put it into a pan, with \ oz. of potash and 1 oz. of pearl- ash ; pour a pailful of boiling water on it; let it stand till it is quite dissolved, then pour hot and cold water into the scouring tub, with a bowl of the solution of soap. Put in the counter- pane, and beat it well with the doll, often turning it over in the tub ; then wring it across a gallows or a hook, which is done by turning the two opposite ends round each other, and putting a small clean stick between them. It may be thus wrung very dry—the harder, without injuring it, the better. The liquor may be afterwards used for old cottons or woollens. The counterpane must now be immersed in a second liquor, and be beaten as before ; wring it out again, and rinse it in clean cold water. Lastly, pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water into the tub, with a little of the solu- tion of soap, so as to reduce it to a very thin lather; put three table-spoonsful of liquid blue into the tub, and stir it about; put in the counterpane, beat it with the doll about five minutes, and then take it out: as it dries in the wind the blue mostly goes off, and leaves a brilliant white. Where the colour of the cottons is brown and bad it will be necessary to boil them, with the last of the three liquors, for an hour in a copper previously to bluing them. To clean scarlet cloth. For a lady's ,Tnantie dissolve ^ lb. of the best white curd soap in ■water; but, as the quantity required will depend upon the state of the garment, 3 ozs. will frequently do: sometimes lib. may be necessary If any black-looking spots appear, dry soap should be rubbed on them. When the mantle is spotted all over with the soap taUe hot water and a brush, and brush it off. If it be very filthy some part of the stains will remain : in this case the whole garment must be dipped into the solution at, or rather under, a hand heat, and rub well such parts as are most stained. Wring it strongly from the first soap liquor, and, having another of the same kind ready prepared as at first, only somewhat hotter, immerse the garment in it, and rub as before : the colours beginning to stain the liquor must be the signal for despatch. If this second liquor does not effectually cleanse the article it may be con- cluded that it requires dipping or re-dyeing. As. soon, however, as the colour begins to give, wring it out, and immerse it in a pailful of warm water, to extract what soap remains ; wring it out of this, and immerse it in a pan of cold spring water, in which a table-spoonful of the solution of muriate of tin has been previously mixed. The garment should remain in this liquor for about ten minutes, being handled now and then ; afterwards it should be hung to dry in the shade, or, if the colour be much worn, in a warm room : let it be cold pressed. If scarlet cloths should not be much soiled they may be cleaned by more simple means, as follow :—Take a quarter of a peck of wheaten bran, and pour boiling water on it in a hair sieve. When the bran water is cooled down to a hand heat immerse the cloth, and rub it well now and then, holding it up to the light to see where the spots are. A second liquor is to be prepared like the former, adding to it i oz. of white tartar ; wring the cloth out from the first bran liquor, and immerse it in this, and if the colour is not altered it is finished. But, should it be altered or darkened, a clean liquor must be made of cold spring water, to which a drop or two of the solution of tin must be added : the cloth must remain in this liquor ten minutes, and then be wrung out and dried. Scarlet cloth may be dipped thus :— To boiling spring water, in a vessel sufficiently large to contain the cloth, add 4 ozs. of young fustic, or zant, 1 drachm of powdered cochi- neal, and the same quantity of cream of tartar; when this has boiled five or six tninutes cool down the liquor by adding a pint or two of cold spring water, and a table-spoonful of the solution of tin ; stir it, put in the cloth, and boil it for ten minutes . when dry let it be cold pressed. A cheaper method is to use 2 ozs. of the best crop madder and the same quantity of turmeric, boiled for ten minutes ; but for a deep red the turmeric must be omitted. To clem white lace veils. Make a solution of soap ill a clean saucepan, put in the veil, and let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour; take It out into a clean basin, with some warm water and soap ; gently squeeze it till it is thoroughly clean; rinse it from the soap, and afterwards in clean cold water, with which has been mixed a drop of chemical or liquid blue ; then take a tea-spoonful of starch, and pour boil- ing water apon it; run the veil through this, and clear it well by clapping it between the hands: afterwards frame or pin it out to dry. Black lace veils are cleaned by passing them through a warm liquor of bullock's gall and water, then rinsed in cold water, cleaned for stiffening, and finished thus :—Take a small piece of glue about the size of a bean, pour boiling water upon it, and when dissolved passSCO [ 422 ] SCO the veil through it; then ciap it between the hands, and frame or pin it out. To clean white satin, silks, dc. Make a solu- tion of the finest hard curd soap, and, when at a hand heat, handle the article through it, drawing it through the hand. If any particular spots appear they must be dipped in the liquor, and gently rubbed by the hand : two or three such liquors are sometimes necessary. The article must afterwards be rinsed in lukewarm water, then dried and finished by being pinned out, and the flossy or bright side well brushed with a clean clothes brush the way of the nap : the more it is brushed the more beautiful it will appear. It may then be calendered ; or it may be finished by dipping a sponge into a little size, made by boiling isinglass in water, and rubbing the wrong side. The articles must be then pinned out a second time, again brushed, and dried near the fire, or in a warm room. This process is chiefly for satin : silks are done in the same way, but not brushed. White satins may also be cleaned by strewing on them French chalk in powder, and then brushing it off with a hard brush. Coloured silks will require different processes, but, in general, 1 oz. of soft soap dissolved in a sufficient quantity of boiling water, and beaten till a strong lather rises on it, in which, when at a hand heat, the article may be immersed and rubbed, and afterwards rinsed in lukewarm water, will answer for common colours, care being taken to go through the process quickly, to guard against the discharge of the colour. In order, however, more effectually to j)revent Buch accident, a pan of water slightly acidulated with oil of vitriol should be at hand, in which all bright yellows, crimsons, maroons, and scarlets should be dipped : orange, fawn, brown, or shades from such colours, do not require the acid. A bright scarlet will require a solution of tin, (See above.) Blues, purples, and their shades require a solution of white curd soap, and a small quantity of good pearlash. Black silk requires bullock's gall dissolved in boiling water. The silk should be laid smoothly on a table, and sponged and rubbed well on both sides with the gall liquor; afterwards wash it, and rinse it well in spring water till the silk is perfectly clean; dip a sponge in glue water, and rub it on the wrong side of the silk, which may be then pinned out and dried. To extract grease from coloured silks, muslins, dc. Put French chalk in fine powder on the grease spot; hold it near the fire, or over a warm iron reversed, or on a water plate, on which is boiling water: the French chalk will absorb the grease, and it may then be brushed out. Should not one operation be effectual it may be repeated. To take out spots of paint from cloths, sillcs, dc. A clean pen must be dipped in oil of tur- pentine, and its contents dropped on the spot of paint. Let it rest several hours on it, after which it may in general be got off by rubbing between the hands. Chintz bed and win dote furniture, when not in a very dirty state, may be cleaned by boiling 2 lbs. of rice in a gallon of water till soft, and, when the liquor is at a hand heat, the articles should be put in, and the rice used lilie soap. This process may be repeated with a fresh quantity of rice and water if necessary : when dry it may be rubbed with a sleeking stone, &c. Or it may be cleaned by washing it with a doll in a tub of warm soap lather at a hand heat. Should the colour fade in washing (that is, the red or green), a drop or two of oil of vitriol should be added to the last cold water in which it is rinsed. In cleaning printed cottons, such as gowns, dc. instead of rubbing the soap on the cotton, it should be dissolved in the water, and the articles afterwards put into it, and washed as usual: by these means they are most effectually cleaned. When green, red, and other colours run, lemon juice, vinegar, or oil of vitriol should be mixed with the rinsing water to preserve the colours. To dry-clean cloths of any colour. Dip a brush in warm bullock's gall, and rub over the greasy places, when the grease will immediately disappear; rinse it in cold water, dry by the fire, and take sand, such as is bought at the oil- shop, and laying the coat or other article on a table, strew the sand over it, and, knocking the brush on it, beat the sand, which should be a little damp, into the cloth. Brush it out with a hard brush. This process does also for coach linings, &c. In scouring undyed woollens yellow soap should be dissolved in the water, and then added to the article to be cleaned, with a small quantity of pearlash. The heat of the water should be such as the hand can bear : the use of the doll will be found the most effectual mode of operation. Three liquors are, in general, necessary to complete the process. To scour black, blue, and dark broicn woollens. Dry about 3 ozs. of fullers' earth by the fire, pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water on it to dissolve it to the consistence of molasses or honey; plaster thinly over such spots of grease as are on the cloth ; dry it by the fire or in the sun ; then mix a small quantity of ox-gall with half a pint of stale urine; to this add, if necessary, a little boiling water, to make the quantity sufficient for the purpose. Dip a hard brush in this liquor, and brush w^ell the spotted places in the cloth or coat, &c.; dip the cloth in a bucket of cold water, wash off the filth, &c.,[ 423 ] SOU SCO and hang it out to dry. When nearly dry lay the nap of the cloth the right way with a hrush, and when quite dry pour a small drop of olive oil on the hand, and pass it over the brush, with which strike the cloth : if there he not too much oil used the cloth will appear new. Qrey, drab, fawn, maroon, and all other coloured woollens are cleaned by forming yellow soap into a ball, and rubbing all the dirty spots of the cloth with it; let it dry a little, dip the brush in warm water, and rub off the soap. If the cloth be not quite clean by this process proceed as before, and use the water a little hotter: rinse several times and diy. In scouring party-coloured woollens, carpets, dc, they are drawn over a board, and according to the colours either gall or soap must be used, or sometimes both. The spots should be soaped as mentioned in the preceding article, and then scrubbed with a brush dipped in boiling water. If the carpet, &c., should be very dirty, a solu- tion of yellow soap, as mentioned for undyed woollens, must be made, and the article im- mersed in it and beaten with the doll. In the last rinsing it may be advisable to put a small quantity of oil to brighten the colours, especially when red and green are in it. SCOURING DROPS. Take a wine-glassful of the rectified oil of turpentine, and half a tea- ispoonful or more of essential oil of lemons ; mix them well, and preserve in a well-stopped phial. If you have not oil of lemons, oil of cloves, of cinnamon, or of peppermint will do. The scouring drops thus prepared are of a plea- sant odour, and will take out of silk, woollen, linen, or cotton stuffs, all sorts of grease spots, oil, paint, pitch, tar, fruit stains, &c., by rubbing a little on the stain with a piece of silk or ■woollen cloth. A bit of silk velvet is the best rubber for silks. The drops do not affect the colour of the stuffs. SCROFULA. See King's Evil. SCUBAC. Infuse 2 ozs. of saffron, the zests of four lemons, those of as many oranges, and 1 drachm of mace in three gallons of brandy for a week, keeping the vessel closely covered: at the end of that time distil. Dissolve 10^ lbs. of sugar in ten gallons and a half of water, stir it into the liquor, and then filter it. The liquor made as above will be very wliite and clear. If, however, you wish it of a yellow tinge, after the sugar is dissolved, and the syrup is cold, add tincture of saffron to it, the quantity regulated by the degree of colour you wish. SCURF. See D.\ndriff. SCURVY [Scorbutus). The scurvy is occa- sioned by cold moist air, by the long use of salted or smoke-dried provisions, or any kind of food that is hard of digestion, and affords little nourishment. It may also proceed from the suppression of customary evacuations, as the menses, the hemorrhoidal flux, &c. It is some- times owing to an hereditary taint, in which case a very small cause will excite the latent disorder. Grief, fear, and other depressing passions have a great tendency both to excite and aggravate this disease. The same observa- tion holds with regard to neglect of cleanliness, bad clothing, the want of proper exercise, con- fined air, unwholesome food, or any disease which greatly weakens the body or vitiates the humours. This disease may be known by unusual weariness, heaviness, and difficulty of breathing, especially after motion; rottenness of the gums, which are apt to bleed on the slightest touch; a stinking breath; frequent bleedings at the nose; crackling of the joints; difficulty of walking; sometimes a swelling, and sometimes a falling away of the legs, on which there are livid, yellow, or violet-coloured spots ; and the face is generally of a pale or leaden colour. As the disease advances other symptoms come on, as rottenness of the teeth, hemorrhages, or dis- charges of blood from different parts of the body, foul obstinate ulcers, pains in various parts, especially about the breast, dry scaly eruptions all over the body, &c. At last a wasting or hectic fever comes on, and the miserable patient is often carried off by a dysentery, a diarrhoea, a dropsy, the palsy, fainting fits, or a mortification of some of the bowels. We know no way of curing this disease but by pursuing a plan directly opposite to that which brings it on. It proceeds from a vitiated state of the humours, occasioned by errors in diet, air, or exercise; and this cannot be re- moved but by a proper attention to these im- portant articles. If the patient has been obliged to breathe a cold, damp, or confined air, he should be re- moved as soon as possible to a dry, open, and moderately warm one. If there is reason to believe that the disease proceeds from a seden- tary life or depressing passions, as grief, fear, &c., the patient must take daily as much exer- cise in the open air as he can bear, and his mind should be diverted by cheerful company and other amusements. Nothing has a greater tendency either to prevent or remove this disease than constant cheerfulness and good humour. But this, alas! is seldom the lot of persons afHicted with the scurvy: they are generally surly, peevish, and morose. When the scurvy has been brought on by a long use of salted provisions the proper medi- cine is a diet consisting chiefly of fresh vege- tables, as oranges, apples, lemons, limes,[ 424 ] SOU sou ■tamarinclg, ^vater-cresses, scurvy-grass, brook- lime, &c. The use of these, with milk, pot- herbs, new bread, and fresh beer or cyder, will seldom fail to remove a scurvy of this kiud, if taken before it be too far advanced; but to have this effect they must be persisted in for a considerable time. When fresh vegetables can- not be obtained, pickled or preserved ones may be used; and, whei-e these are wanting, recourse must be had to the chemical acids. All the patient's food and drink should in this case be sharpened with cream of tartar, eli.x.ir of vitriol, vinegar, or the muriatic acid. These things, however, will more certainly prevent than cure the scurvy, for which reason seafaring people, especially in long voyages, ought to lay in plenty of them. Cabbages, onions, gooseberries, and many other vegetables may be kept a long time by pickling, preserving, &c.; and when these fail the chemical acids recommended above, which will keep for any length of time, may be used. We have reason to believe, if ships were well ventilated, had got store of fruits, greens, cyder, &c., laid in, and if proper regard were paid to cleanliness and warmth, that sailors would be the most healthy people in the world, and would seldom suffer either from the scurvy or putrid fevers, which are so fatal to that useful class of men, but it is too much the temper of such people to despise all precaution—they will not think of any calamity till it overtakes them, when it is too late to ward off the blow. It must, indeed, be owned that many sailors have it not in their power to make the provision we are speak- ing of; but in this case it is the duty of their employers to make it for them, and no man ought to engage in a long voyage without having these articles secured. In the course of the disease particular symp- toms may arise requiring a separate considera- tion. Pains of the belly are to be relieved by emollients and opiates; oppression at the chest and impeded respiration by blisters, for bleed- ing is never to be used in this disease; con- tractions of the hams and calves of the legs by fomenting the part with warm vinegar and water, and by the application of emollient poultices and frictions; sponginess of the gums and looseness of the teeth by washing the mouth frequently with antiseptic and astringent gargles :—Take infusion of roses, 4 ozs. ; alum in powder, l^oz.; hoi\ej, 1 drachm: mix them for a gargle. Or, take decoction of bark, 6 ozs.; tincture of myrrh, Hoz.; muriatic acid, 12 to 20 drops: make a gargle. Foul ulcers are to be cleansed and healed by washing them with lemon juice, or a tincture consisting of equal parts of the tincture of myrrh, and then dress- ing them with some kind of ointment or a sorrel poultice. In bad cases of ulceration the charcoal or effervescent poultice may probably be serviceable. We have often seen very extraordinary effects in the land scurvy from a milk diet. This pre- paration of nature is a mixture of animal and vegetable properties, which of all others is the most fit for restoring a decayed constitution, and removing that particular acrimony of the hu- mours which seems to constitute the very essence of the scurvy and many other diseases. But people despise this wholesome and nourish- ing food because it is cheap, and devour with greediness flesh and fermented liquors, while milk is only deemed fit for their hogs. The most proper drink in the scurvy is whey or buttermilk. When these cannot be had, sound cyder, perry, or spruce beer may be used. Wort has likewise been found to be a proper drink in the scurvy, and may be used at sea, as malt will keep during the longest voyage. A decoction of the tops of the spruce fir is like- wise proper. It may be drunk in the quantity of an English pint twice a day. Tar water may be used for the same purpose, or decoctions of any of the mild mucilaginous vegetables, as sarsaparilla, marsh-mallow roots, &c. Infusions of the bitter plants, as ground ivy, the lesser centaury, marsh trefoil, &c., are likewise bene- ficial. We have seen the peasants in some parts of Britain express the juice of the last-mentioned plant, and drink it with good effect in those foul scorbutic eruptions with which they are often troubled in the spring season. Harrowgate water is certainly an excellent tnedicine in the land scurvy. We have often seen patients who had been reduced to the most deplorable condition by this disease greatly relieved by drinking the sulphur water, and bathing in it. The chalybeate water may also be used with advantage, especially with a view to brace the stomach after drinking the sulphur water, which, though it sharpens the appetite, never fails to weaken the powers of digestion. A slight degree of scurvy may be carried off by frequently sucking a little of the juice of a bitter orange or a lemon. When the disease affects the gums only, this practice, if continued for some time, will generally carry it off. We would, however, recommend the bitter orange as greatly preferable to lemon: it seems to be as good a medicine, and is not nearly so hurtful to the stomach, P<;rhaps our own sorrel may be little inferior to either of them. All kinds of vegetables are good in the scurvy, and ought to be eaten very plentifully, as spinach, lettuce, parsley, celery, endive, radish, dandelion, &c. It is amazing to see how soon fresh vegetables in the spring cure the bruto animals of any scab or foulness which is uponSCO SEA [ 425 ] their skins. It is reasonable to suppose that tlieir effects would be as great upon the human species, were they used in proper quantity for a sufficient length of time. We have sometimes seen good effects in scor- butic complaints of very long standing from the use of a decoction of the roots of water-dock. It is usually made by boiling I lb. of the fresh root in six English pints of water till about one-third of it be consumed. The dose is from half a pint to a whole pint of the decoction every day ; but in all the cases where we have seen it prove beneficial it was made much stronger, and drunk in larger quantities. The safest way, however, is for the patient to begin with small doses, and increase them both in strength and quantity as he finds his stomach will bear it. It must be used for a considerable time. We have known some take it for many months, and have been told of others who had used it for several years before they were sen- sible of any benefit, but who nevertheless were cured by it at length. SCURVY-GRASS {CocJilearia officinalis). This near relative of the horseradish is found growing on seashores, and in mountainous situations, where it flowers in the months of April and May, and is then most powerful. When cultivated in gai'dens this maritime plant retains its properties without any sensible change. It possesses a considerable degree of acrimony, which I'esides in a very subtle essen- tial oil, and as an anti-scorbutic its effects are sufficiently ascertained. In the pituitous asthma and chronic rheumatism the scurvy-grass is a powei'ful remedy. It is likewise a pungent stimulating medicine, which may be advantage- ously employed for promoting the fluid secre- tions. A distilled water and a conserve are prepared from its leaves; and the expressed juice is prescribed, with that of oranges, among other anti-scorbutics, It may also be used as a salad. SEA-BATHING. Bathing in the sea is greatly preferable to bathing in fresh water. It excites the action of the solids, stimulates the vessels of the skin, causes an increased deter- mination of the fluids to the surface of the body, and promotes all the secretions. Even persons of the most delicate habits are less susceptible of cold from being wet with salt than with -fresh water. There is a saline incrustation formed on the skin, in consequence of bathing in the sea, which excites, in some measure, the action of the cutaneous vessels by the common friction of the apparel, arising from a certain degree of roughness and asperity thereby im^ parted to the surface of the body. Bathing in the sea, by exposing the body for a time to a medium of lower temperature than it has been accustomed to, combined with the opportunity of breathing pure air, of enjoying moderate exercise, and indulging in agreeable society and innocent amusements, restores to the constitution a portion of that strength which had been previously exhausted by breath- ing the impure atmosphere, and following the enervating modes of life peculiar to great towns. Indeed, in many cases, after even a short course of judiciously regulated sea-bathing, it is diffi- cult to recognise the languid and meagre in- valid, who a few weeks before had repaired to the seacoast in a state of great debility, when he is seen once more possessing all the advan- tages of vigorous and florid health. The rules which have been recommended in the use of sea-bathing are so numerous, and often so contradictory to each other, that it is difficult to select or arrange them with pro- priety ; but the following are entitled to the reader's attention.— Sea-bathing should be continued for at least five or six weeks at two periods in the year, making June a part of the one, and September of the other. By thus allowing an interval be- tween the two courses of bathing, a more salu- tary change may be effected in the fluids and solids than if it had been persisted in for many months without intermission. Bathing in the heats of autumn is not reckoned so useful. The lowest temperature of the sea on our coasts is about 40° of Fahren- heit, whereas in autumn it is often from 60" to 62°, and the atmosphere is probably about 65° : hence it may be called tempei'ate, rather than cold bathing. The lower the temperature we can accustom ourselves to bear with im- punity, the better we are enabled to withstand the vicissitudes of the seasons. Before bathing in the sea it is a rule proper to be adopted by the young and delicate gradually to prepare themselves for sea-bathing by previously using the tepid bath, at a tempe- rature commencing at 90°, lowering 5° each time, and terminating at 65°. This is much better for them than plunging at once into the sea, at its common temperature, without any previous preparation. We should never begin to bathe in the sea till two or three days after having arrived on the seacoast, during which time it would be advisable to take a moderate dose of salts or a tea-cupful of sea water every morning before breakfast. Sea-bathing, likewise, should not be taken after great fatigue, as coming from a long journey; nor after the body has been long ex- posed to great exertion, and has incurred lassi- tude, debility, or chilliness ; nor if there is any inward determination of the fluids to the head or the lungs. It is an indispensable rule neverSEA [ 426 ] SEA to batlie in the sea -with a full stomach, but either fasting or about four hours after eating. It is hardly necessary to add that to rush into cold water if at all unwell, or on the day you have taken medicine, is dangerous in the ex- treme. The robust and healthy may bathe early in the morning, or before breakfast; but persons of a delicate or feeble constitution, or who are in the habit of dining late, and indulging in the luxuries of the table, should prefer bathing about two hours before dinner. It is better for euch persons to bathe on alternate days than for many days consecutively. Daily bathing is frequently found productive of lassitude, ac- companied by a manifest wasting of the body. It is now decided as a rule in bathing that even infirm persons should not use the cold bath without having previously taken some moderate exercise, and when they bathe being rather warm than cool. This doctrine cannot be too strongly impressed on their minds. Dr. Currie justly observes that persons ought not to wait on the edge of a bath or of the sea until they are perfectly cool; for, if they plunge into the water in that state, a sudden and alarming chilliness may be expected, which would not have been felt had they been moderately warm when they went into the water. Attention should be paid to the nature of the bathing-place. A bottom of clear sand is to be preferred. Seaweeds are to be avoided, for they frequently contain a species of pointed shell, which is apt to inflict dangerous wounds if trodden upon. It has long been considered a useful rule to have the head first wetted; and, indeed, many think it necessary to plunge head foremost into the water. It is asserted that the accumulation of blood in the head, with all its direful cour sequences, would take place if this precaution were neglected. This practice, however, has of late been objected to. It is certainly not the mode indicated by nature, as the bather, till the invention of bathing-machines, must in general have walked leisurely into the water until he reached a depth suited to his prrpose. A sudden plunge is a violent and unnatural exer- tion, which ought not to be insisted upon with delicate people; and several of the bad effects which are ascribed to cold bathing, and which have forced many to abandon it who were anxious to persevere in its use, may have origin- ated from this very practice. Every person who plunges headlong'into the water will recol- lect the partial stupor and unpleasant sensa- tions which are thus produced, affecting such delicate and sensible organs as the eye and the ear, and, when the water enters the mouth and nose, threatening suffocation. Those who feel no bad effects from the pi-actice may persevere in it; but those who experience any incon- venience from it ought at least to put the matter to the test of experiment. To have the greatest benefit from cold bath- ing it is proper to remain for only a very short time in the water, not exceeding a minute or two. If longer the body should be kept during the whole time under the surface of the water, and moving about, in order to promote the cir- culation of the blood from the centre of the body to the extremities. It is much better to remain completely immersed in deep, than to take repeated plunges in shallow water. Upon coming out of the water the body should be wiped dry with a somewhat rough cloth, and the ordinary dress quickly resumed. It is more necessary to replace the usual vest- ments quickly than to be extremely anxious to have the surface of the body perfectly dry, as any wetness from salt water is not likely to be prejudicial. After bathing use moderate exercise to pro- mote the return of the heat of the body, taking care that it should neither be violent nor too long continued. If chilliness occasionally ensues, breakfast soon after bathing in the morning; or, in the forenoon, some warm soup or broth may be taken. Indeed, if immersion, instead, of being succeeded by a glow on the surface of the skin, is followed by chilliness, languor, or headache, bathing in the sea should by no means be per- sisted in. During a course of sea-bathing, and when even the warm sea-water bath is used, friction with a flesh - brush or coarse woollen gloves ought by no means to be omitted. It may enable a patient to continue the course, when otherwise he must have given it up. Bathing-machines are useful in sea-bathing, as the bather dresses and undresses under a cover, is less exposed to cold, can bathe at any time of the tide, and can go in at any depth that may be wished for. At the same time they have their inconveniences when they are without awnings, or soaked with rain, or replete with moist exhalations ; nor are there, in general, a sufficient number of those vehicles in a proper state to accommodate the bathers. These circumstances contribute to render sea- bathing in many cases much less useful than it otherwise would be. SEA-KALE. The blanched shoots of this plant are tied up in bundles like asparagus, and are commonly dressed in a similar manner, being served up on toast at the bottom of the dish, with melted butter or gravy. SEA-SICKNESS is a convulsive affection of the stomach, attended with great nausea and[ 4Q7 3 SEA SEA vomiting : it is occasioned by the irregular motion of the vessel. The sea-sickness generally attacks persons unaccustomed to voyages on the ocean, particu- larly if they embark in a small vessel which is not deeply laden. On the other hand, passen- gers in very large ships are less violently affected, as the waves make only a slight impression on the latter. People advanced in years, and also children (especially if they be of a dark com- plexion), are less liable to this complaint than those who are in the prime of life, and possess a fair skin. Its duration is very unequal; in general, only for one or two days, though it sometimes continues for weeks or months, and even during the whole voyage, in which latter case it induces headache, fever, intense thirst, a quick pulse, and a total inability to retain either solid or liquid food on the stomach— affections that are always very difficult to re- move. But though sea-sickness be thus irksome and distressing to the patient during its continuance, it has often proved highly beneficial in numerous diseases, particularly in asthmatic and pulmo- nary cases. "Very few instances indeed have oc- curred in which fatal consequences have resulted from this temporary complaint. Among the numerous remedies devised with a view to alleviate this debilitating indisposition, one or two draughts of sea water have been found very serviceable; for, though extremely disgusting^ that fluid will clear the first passages if they be foul or oppressed, and thus afford effectual relief when the nausea and sickness which it necessarily occasions have abated. The frequent application of ether to the temples and nostrils, together with a tea-spoonful of that liquor diluted in a glass of water, and occa- sionally taken, has likewise been attended with good effects. In order to mitigate, and, if possible, to pre- vent the violence of that complaint, it has farther been recommended never to embark immediately after meals, and when on ship- board to partake very moderately of food, which ought to consist of bread and fresh meat (at least as long as this article can be procured), to be eaten in a cold state, with the addition of mustard or pepper. The drink should like- wise be sparingly but frequently taken, and ought to consist of lemonade, tart wines mixed with Seltzer water, and fermented with pounded sugar, or other liquors containing a large portion of fixed air. Passengers at sea should wear flaimel shirts and drawers, together with trousers and other warm clothing, because these simple expedients have frequently prevented sickness, vomiting, and the numerous symptoms accompanying such convulsive efforts. They ought likewise to swallow occasionally a few drops of the spirit of vitriolic ether, commonly called the dulcified spirit of vitriol, either on lump sugar or mixed with peppermint water; and, if they be troubled with a slight diarrhoea, it will be proper to administer a few grains of rhubarb, or, which is preferable if it can be effected, a clyster, con- sisting of Venice soap dissolved in salt water. Farther, they should as long as possible remain on deck, even during rainy and stormy weather, because the breeze arising from the sea is far more salubrious than the confined and stagnant air of the cabin. No passengers, however, ought to watch the motion of the waves, par- ticularly when the element is violently agitated by tempests; nor should they indulge in sloth or inactivity, but take proper and frequent exercise, such as working at the pump, &c., for indolence only tends to aggravate the disorder. Lastly, whatever may disturb or enervate the mind, such as reading, intense study, or medita- tion on gloomy subjects, must be purposely avoided, and no opportunity neglected of par- ticipating in innocent mirth and mental relaxa- tion. It is very certain that one of the best pre- ventives of sea-sickness is a belt buckled veiy tightly over the region of the stomach and upper bowels. Eemaining mostly in a recumbent posi- tion during the first two or three days of a long^ voyage is also a judicious precaution. SEA WATER is often required for bathing by persons not in its vicinity, and for those so situated we give the following recipe for making it —Common salt, 1227 grains ; chloride of magnesium (dry), 237 grains; chloride of cal- cium (dry), 5 7 grains; sulphate of soda (Glauber's salt), 213 grains ; iodide of potassium, 4 grains; water, 1 gallon. If all the salts are not at com- mand, 4 ozs. of common salt and i oz. of Glauber's salt may be dissolved in each gallon of water. SEALING - WAX. Red Sealing - "Wax. Take of camphor 8 ozs. ; shellac, 8 lbs. ; Venice turpentine, 4 lbs.; vermilion, 2^ lbs. Pissolve the camphor in the turpeutme in a suitable vessel over a slow fire, then add the shellac, and, when that has become a uniform and smooth mass by a moderate ap- plication of heat, the vei'milion, which should be passed through a hair sieve held over the melted mass, in order that it may not get into clots. When the whole is well incorpo- rated it wOl be ready to form into sticks of whatever size may be desired. To do this the soft wax is weighed out, rolled with a piece of mahogany on a smooth mahogany table to the proper length, and then flattened by mere pressure. To make it shine a charcoal firoSEI SEC L 428 ] must be provided iu a chafing-dish, and the stick is to be held for a short time over the fire, then passed over a bit of mutton suet or candle tallow, and rubbed with a piece of soft leather. The stick is marked by heating it, and then pressing on the stamp. A variety of inferior kinds of sealing-wax may be made by using less shellac, camphor, and vermilion, and supplying their places by yellow resin and red-lead. The addition of the camphor is to make the wax bum well. Black Sealing-Wax. Take of camphor 2 ozs.; shellac, 5 lbs.; black resin, 3 lbs.; oil of turpentine, Ipint; lampblack, 8 ozs. Dissolve the camphor in the turpentine, then add the shellac and the resin previously melted, taking care in both instances that no flame touches the melting materials, and using also a mode- rate heat. Lastly, mix in the lampblack in the same manner as directed for vermilion in the making of red sealing-wax ; and, after all is uniformly incorporated, form sticks in the same manner as directed for red sealing-wax. An inferior black sealing-wax may be made by add- ing more resin and turpentine, and less shellac and camphor. The same ingredients may be coloured blue by artificial ultramarine , brown by English umber; green by Prussian blue and double its quantity of King's yellow (mixed) ; yellow by King's yellow. Peefdmed Wax is made by adding a little powdered gum benzoin. See Bottle Wax. SEC-SEC. This curry is made of vegetables intermixed with butchers' meat, fowl, or game. If you have any green capsicums boil some well, and put them into a little nice gravy, with a clove or two of garlic and some curry powder. If you have no capsicums use Cayenne. Pre- pare for boiling whatever vegetables may be used, such as spinach, sorrel, French beans, artichokes, asparagus, cabbage, small early potatoes, &c. When the vegetables are ready mix in any meat that has been prepared by cutting small, and dressing into proper pieces; add nicely fried onions, and season witJi the prepared sauce, mixing all well together, and taking care that it is not too wet. Have hot dripping ready, put in the prepared curry, and manage it so that it may not burn. While it is frying mix in a little cream or marrow, with a few pounded almonds, cocoa or any other nuts, lemon pickle or juice, and Indian pickle. The great secret of making curiy consists in the ingredients and spices being properly mixed, and left to incorporate for some time. SEED CAKE. Take 2ilbs. of flour, add i lb. of Lisbon or powdered white sugar, make a cavity in the middle, and pour in half a pint of warm milk and a table-spoonful of yeast; mix these with flour enough to mase it Iiko thick cream, and set it in a warm place for one hour. Meanwhile melt to an oil 8 ozs. of fresh butter, and add to the rest, with 1 oz. of caraway seeds, and milk to give it a moderate stiffness. Line a hoop with paper well rubbed with butter, put in the cake, and set it some time in a stove or before the fire, after which bake it on a tin plate about one hour in a hot oven. When done sprinkle some milk on it with a brush. SEEDS, SUGARED. These are done in the same manner as sugared almonds. The seeds most generally used for this purpose are anise, cumin, and fennel. The best method of proceeding is as follows :—Place a small pre- serving-pan over a charcoal fire, on one side of which have a chafing-dish, on which keep a pan with a quantity of sugar boiled to lisse (this sugar should be kept quite hot, but not boiling), and on the other side have some fine powder. When so far prepared put your seeds into a pan, and as soon as they begin to heat pour over them a large spoonful or two of syrup; stir them about that all may be thoroughly satu- rated with it, then sprinkle over them a handful or two of powder, and continue this alternately until your seeds are sufiiciently large ; then lay them on a sieve, and keep them in a warm place for some days, after which put them into glass bottles. SEIDLITZ OR SEYDSCHUTZ WATER. Seidlitz water is found at a village of that name in Bohemia, and was brought into notice, as a medicine of considerable efficacy, by the celebrated Hoffmann about the year 1721. The spring of Seydschutz is situated at a very short distance fiora that of Seidlitz, and resembles it in chemical composition. To the taste these waters are very saline and bitter, but not in the least acidulous. They are not brisk. The solid contents procured by evaporation to dryness, according to Bergmann, are in the following proportion. The English wine pint of 28,875 cubic inches contains— Grains. Carbonate of lime i . • •9A4. Sulphate o£ lime _ . . . 5-140 Carbonate of magnesia • . 2-622 Chloride of magnesium . . , 4-.'jC7 Sulphate of magnesia (Epsom salt). 180-497 193-770 From this analysis it appears that they are decidedly purgative, and that they owe this medical property to their strong impregnation with the sulphate of magnesia, or Epsom salt. They operate very speedily, and are parti- cularly useful in freeing the body from crude, viscid, acid, and acrid bilious matters. TheyI 429 ] SEL SEN d.O not commonly cause griping pains, flatu- lency, and weakness, like the drastic purges exliibited in a solid form, or even the milder aperients, such as manna, Cassia fistula, or senna; but they gently stimulate the stomach and bowels to expel their morbid contents, and, assisted by their bitterness, tend to restore the tone of these organs, and with it the appetite and digestive powers. Thus they are particularly efficacious in disorders arising from a torpid action of the liver, in a bilious state of the stomach, in habitual costiveness, in hypochon- driacal complaints, in sick headache with bilious vomiting, in some kinds of bilious purging, in exudations and watery humours of the skin, in scrofulous tumours, inflammations of the eyes and eyelids, in ulcers and discharges of the legs, in piles, fistulas, intestinal worms, and in that cachexy of females, attended with costiveness and suppression of the menses, whereby general debility, febrile heat, irritation, loss of appetite, and wasting of the body are induced. In short, as a loaded and constipated state of the alimentary canal is a common cause of general bad health, it is obvious that these waters may be of infinite service. The dose is from half a pint to two pints taken in divided portions, with a sufficient interval interposed, to prevent offend- ing the stomach by the mere bulk of the liquid. Exercise should daily be taken, and the diet should consist principally of soups, and not of solid food. Fermented and spirituous liquors should be avoided. The habits of life should be regular. SELTZER WATER. This water is im- ported to this country in stone bottles, closely corked and sealed, from the spring of Seltzer, in the village of Neider-Seltzer, situated in a fine woody country, about ten miles from Frank- fort. This water, when fresh or well preserved, is perfectly clear and transparent, and sparkles much on being poured into a glass. To the taste it is pungent, gently saline, and alkaline ; but this pungency it loses on exposure to the air, from the escape of the carbonic acid gas. Its contents given by Bergmann, and brought to the proportion of an English wine pint, are— Grains. Carbonate of lime, about . . 3 Carbonate of magnesia . . . 5 Carbonate of soda . . ,4 Chloride of sodium (common salt) . 17-5 29-5 The quantity of gas evolved is extremely copious, being 60 cubic inches to the 100 of water, or upwards of 17 cubic inches to the wine pint. It is almost entirely pure carbonic acid gas. This quantity, being more than is sufficient to saturate the alkali and earths, gives to the water, therefore, its acidulous taste and freshness. The operation of this water in moderate doses is to raise the spirits, improve the appetite, and increase the urinary discharge. It is particularly serviceable in alleviating some of the symptoms indicating a morbid condition of the lungs, as in checking the profuse night sweats and constant cough, and in diminishing the fetid purulent expectoration and frequent flushings attendant on slow hectic fever. From its excellent property of allaying irritation, it forms a useful remedy in those eruptions of the skin dependent on a disordered state of the stomach, and in various derangements of that organ, and of those viscera connected with it, as indigestion, acidity, heartburn, bilious vomiting, spasmodic pains in the bowels, and bloody or highly offensive stools. It has been found bene- ficial in gonorrhoea, leucon'hoea, hypochondriacal complaints, and particularly in painful affections of the kidneys and bladder, marked by purulent discharge and difficult micturition. It mixes well with milk, and will not soon coagulate it. This mixture is strongly recommended by the illustrious Hoffmann in cases of hectic fever with expectoration. The usual dose of Seltzer water is from half a pint to a pint, and, the only pre- caution necessary during its use is to preserve a regular state of the bowels. SEMOLINO. Wheat flour granulated by friction while moist, and dried, to deprive it of its solubility in hot water. This is very similar to the cuscusson of Africa. SENNA. The most esteemed Alexandrian senna {sene du Levant, de Seyde, de la palte) belongs to the Cassia lanceolata. Leaves alternate. Leafits oblong, sharp-pointed at the ends, about a quarter of an inch broad, and not a full inch in length, unequally divided by the middle rib, without prominent lateral fibres, of a lively yellowish-green colour, a faint, not very disagreeable smell, and a subacrid, bitterish, nauseous taste. This senna is found some leagues above Syene, in a valley called Bicharie, in Abyssinia and Sennaar. A second species belongs to the Cassia senna [C. obovata). Leaves broader than the pre- ceding, rounded, of a pale green colour; taste sweetish, and without smell. It is found in Upper Egypt, and is less purgative than the former. These two species are mixed in commerce,, and also with a third leaf, which is not a senna, but a species of Apocynum, designated by MM. Rouillure and Delisle under the name of Cynanclium argel, or Cynanchum oleifolium. The leaves of the Cynanchumf are regular at the base, whereas the folioles of the sennas are always oblique.SER [ 480 1 SEW The general mart for Egyptian senna is BouUac, near Grand Cairo, where they mix the senna in the following proportions:—Lanceo- lated senna, 500; obovate senna, 300; and argel, 200 parts. When sennas reach Europe they are still further adulterated by the- admixture of the folioles of the Colutea arhorescens, which are very like the obovate senna, but are perfectly symmetrical, not oblique. A more dangerous admixture takes place at Marseilles with the leaves of the Coriaria tnyrtifolia, which is an actual poison, and has produced fatal effects. They are much larger than the leafits of the senna, and are therefore always in fragments. Senna is a very useful cathartic, operating mildly, and yet effectually ; and, if judiciously dosed and managed, rarely occasioning the bad consequences which too frequently follow the exhibition of the stronger purges. The only inconveniences complained of in this drug are its being apt to gripe, and its nauseous flavour. These are best obviated by adding to the senna some aromatic substance, as cardamom, ginger, cinnamon, &c., and by facilitating its operation by drinking plentifully of any mild diluent. Senna may be given in substance to the extent of about 1 drachm; but this is rather too bulky, and it is therefore better to divide it into two doses, and to take one half at night, and the other in the morning. It is more conveniently given in the form of infusion, which is generally made by pouring about 6 ozs. of boiling water upon from 2 to 6 drachms of senna leaves in a teapot, and letting it stand about an hour. Senna ought never to be ordered in decoction, Gren says, because it becomes perfectly inert, from the total dissipation of the nauseous and volatile principles on which its purgative effects depend. It has been customary to reject the pedicles of the leaves of senna, as causing gripes and pains in the bowels ; but this is a mere prejudice, for both leaves and pedicles act in the very same way. The tincture, on account of the menstruum, cannot be given in doses large enough to purge. —[Duncan s Dispensatory.) SERVANTS. See Domestic and Female Servants, &c. SERVELAS. According to the number of eervelas you intend to make, take your quantity of fresh lean pork; mince it small, and mix it with a fourth part of bacon fat, also minced; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, spices, anise, and coriander ; fill your skins like sausages, tie the ends, and hang them in the chimney to smoke three days ; then put them into a sauce- pan of water, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, basil, and a bunch of parsley; boil them in this for three hours, drain, and let them cool. SETON. An artificial ulcer made under the skin by means of an instrument called a seton needle, which carries with it a portion of silk or thread that is moved backwards or forwards, and thus keeps up a constant imta- tion. Setons are frequently formed in the back of the neck for diseases of the head or eyes, or between two of the ribs in affections of the breast. They are occasionally of service by the new action which they introduce into the sys- tem, and also by their stimulus; but setons as well as issues, if long continued in the same place, very often cease to be efficacious. SEWING is the joining of two edges toge- ther; and if the edges happen to be good selvages they require only to be placed evenly, and to be pinned at short distances, or tacked slightly, to prevent puckering. Should the edges be raw, one edge must be turned down once, and the other must be turned down double the width, for the purpose of being folded back again in the middle, to form what is called the fell. If the edges be good selvages they require only to be placed evenly together, and to be pinned or tacked, that they may remain so. But if the edges be raw, then one edge must be turned down once, and the other edge must be turned down double the width, to admit of being folded back again in the middle to form the fell. Then hold the cloth or other material upright, firmly, with the thumb along the side of the first finger of the left hand, and support it with the second and third fingers. Point your needle towards the chest; and the stitches must lie straight across the seam, and not be taken too deep. Do not make a knot in your thread, but leave out one end of the thread, and sew it over with the first few stitches. Begin to sew along the side, commencing about the beginning of the nail. When you require a fresh thread leave an end of the thread you have been using, and the same length of the new one, and sew them both over neatly and carefully. When you have finished the sewing of the seam flatten it with the thumb-nail. Then proceed with the running and felling, by laying the raw edge of one of the parts once down, in the same manner as for the first fold of a hem, and then placing the other part upon it, a thi'ead or two below the double edge, and running them together, making the stitches short—about three threads up, and three threads down. The running having been finished, lay the seam down very smoothly, and hem on the other side. For the double seam, or sewing and Jelling, lay down a fold in the same manner as for a run-and-fellC 431 ] SHA Beam, turning it back again exactly at the raw- edge of the turn, so that the fold may be double ; then lay down a single fold on the second piece, and place the edges of both together, with the turns inside ; then sew them neatly, and when finished lay the seam down smoothly, and hem the fold on the other side. The sewing must be on the right side, and the hem on the wrong.—[Finchley Manual.) SHALLOT SAUCE. Take two spoonsful of the liquor in which mutton has been boiled, two spoonsful of vinegar, two or three shallots cut finely, and a little salt; put these ingredients into a saucepan, with a bit of butter rolled in flour; let them stew a little, and serve the sauce up with mutton or beef. SHALLOT VINEGAR. Put six or eight shallots (split) in a quart bottle, fill it up with vinegar, and stop it. It will be fit for use in a month. SHANK JELLY. Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, and cleanse them thoroughly; put them into a saucepan, with three blades of mace, an onion, some peppercorns, sweet herbs, and a crust of bread toasted ; pour thereon three quarts of water, and set the pan (covered) on a hot hearth; simmer gently five hours, strain off the jelly, and put it by in a cool place. A pound of beef may be added to advantage. SHAVING. The size of a razor is not an immaterial consideration, for wounding the face is much more frequent with a large razor than with a small one. The cutting edge of our razors is no more than two inches and a half long, and from the extreme point of the handle to the extreme point of the blade each razor is only seven inches and three quarters in length, and weighs no more than If oz. A greater length of edge is totally useless, for even of the above length never any other part than the inch and three quarters furthest from the handle is used in shaving. A rectangular point to the blade is preferable to any other, and however more finished and ornamental may be the ap- pearance of a rounded point, yet the practical result of such rounding is to increase the diffi- culty of repoving the beard from the angles between the nose and upper lip. We prefer the razor handle to have rather acute edges, because these render it less liable to turn or slip from the grasp of the fingers. When you are possessed of razors which suit you keep them as carefully as you should your favourite riding-horse: never lend either. It is as certain as razors are razors that once using upon a strange beard, and by a strange hand, renders a razor much less efficient for removing its owner's beard. A difference in the stropping, and a difference in the angle at which it is applied to the roots of the beard,^ turn and set the extremely minute teetn composing the razor's edge, so as to render it much less keenly cutting when applied at a different angle by its accustomed user. Every one should have a pair of razors in his house devoted to the use of his friends; and even these razors he should strop and carefully put away so soon as each friend has departed, or woe be to him who next has to come under their operation. This brings us to remark upon the very singular truth that most razors are improved by a few days' rest. So influential is this rest that we have known a razor thrown by as irrevocably intractable, and yet taken from its drawer at the end of a few months, and restored to be the favourite and most efficient razor of its owner. It may be an altered magnetic state of the razor; it may be a gradual alteration in the hardness of the razor's teeth, for, viewed through a microscope, the edge is seen to be a minutely fine saw; but whatever the explanation of the fact, the fact is a certainty. To keep a razor in good condition it should be stropped after using, having previously been dipped into hot water and wiped perfectly dry. Dryness is essential to its preservation ; and the practice of an old friend is not bad, who places his razor after using before the fire, and puts it away whilst hot. The mode of applying the razor to the beard is of no small importance. If it be applied flat against the face the edge must be most keen, and even then many of the finest hairs bend down and pass beneath it. On the other hand, if the angle at which the back of the razor is raised from the face be too great, the edge of the razor is more speedily turned, and not only requires more stropping, but ia consequently more speedily worn out. There is considerable art in stropping a razor. If it be performed incorrectly it does more harm than good, because, instead of giving an edge, it has a diametrically opposite tend- ency—it destroys the edge. Those who, in using the strop, turn the razor on the cutting side, though they lift it from the strop, are sure to give a blunt edge. To use the strop effect- ively the razor should be laid upon it, and drawn from heel to point, then turned by resting it on its back as it moves round, without letting it quit the strop. When flat on the other side it should again be drawn from heel to point the other way. If the edge, as the razor lies flat on the strop, face the body of the operator, the blade should be drawn from him; but if the back face him the razor must be drawn towards him. Thus it must always lie obliquely when on the strop. Were this not so the edge would not be keen. It is this obliquity dui'ing the action of the strop that imparts the fine[ 432 ] SHA SHA cutting quality, which in a razor must always be greater than in any other instrument. The razor, though the sharpest cutting instrument known, is nothing more than a fine saw. This may be easily ascertained by examining the edge with a powerful magnifying lens. The teeth may be seen lying in even and regular succession. The effect of the hone is to make these teeth finer and sharper ; that of the strop is to make them still finer, sharper, more uniform and smooth, also to remove the long or pointed teeth which project beyond the others, and under the magnifier have the appearance of angular projecting steel bars. Many of these are left by the hone, and give great anguish if not removed. If the strop be used differently from the manner described, and the razor turned upon its edge, even though, as we said before, it be taken from the strop prior to being turned, the teeth, instead of being made fine, sharp, and even, are bent, and the result is what is termed a eodnd edge, which is by no means proper for easy shaving. None but a very hard and wiry beard can conveniently be removed by a razor fresh from the hone. Pain generally accompanies the use of such an instrument. We find that, after they have been set, razors require a great deal of management ere they are fit for shaving. Our own practice is to strop every morning when we shave the razors which have just been set. After stropping that with which we have just shaved we strop the newly-set razors one after the other, giving to each one hundred strokes on the paste surface of the strop, being fifty on each side; and twenty—that is to say, ten on each side—on the surface that has no paste. In a few days we find that the newly-set razors will do their duty smoothly and efficiently. We always strop our razor AFTER shaving. On this point we most cor- dially concur with Mr. Mechi, of razor and strop-making celebrity. In our practice we fully carry out his maxim, that the razor should always be stropped subsequently, and never PKioR to shaving. When a blade has just sei-ved its office there always remains upon it a little of the soapsuds, which, if not removed, would leave their mark in rust. Nothing re- moves all moisture from the keen edge so well as the strop. Besides this, the warmth pos- sessed by the blade just after use renders the steel, which it expands a little, more sensitive to the stimulating power of the strop, and it re- mains better sharpened and in better order. Then, again, the repose of the razor after strop- ping, and prior to use, is advantageous, because the instrument invariably cuts with more freedom. These points may appear trifling and UQ: worthy of notice; but we seriously assure our readers that success in obtaining easy shaving depends very much upon their strict observance. And we may add that difficult shaving, in most cases, might be wholly replaced by the pleasur- able operation which we have rendered it upon our own chin, if attention were paid to them. Ignorant barbers tell their customers that the best strop is the palm of the hand. This is not so . in the absence of a strop it is better than none, but it is always a bad substitute for one. The prefe]-ence of hot or cold water in shaving depends entirely on idiosyncrasy. Cold water agrees with some ; hot water with others. We shave best with hot water. We never fail to dip our razor before we use it into hot water, and we find the result always advantageous. We can- not shave so well without this kind of warming. The temperature of the water we employ is about 1(30° of Fahrenheit. Many persons object to the use of hot water, because, as they say, it destroys the temper of the razor. This is an entire fallacy. The heat applied to warm the razor cannot at all afi'ect its tempering, unless it be higlier than the heat at which the blade was originally tempered. Now, if the razor were put even into boiling water, the temperature would be several hundred degrees lower than that at which the blade was tempered; therefore the hot water cannot affect the temper of the steel. The fact is, the expansion of the metal which ensues from dipping it into hot water is in some cases favourable to its action upon the beard, in others it is unfavourable; therefore the use of hot or cold water in pre- ference must depend upon the experience of the operator. The first thing to be done in shaving is to soften the beard as much as possible. Every one knows that, if a board were studded with iron wire a quarter of an inch long, it would be veiy difficult to cut this wire close with a knife; but if, instead of iron, the wire were of lead or pewter, it might be easily cut, on account of the much greater softness of these latter metals. The beard may be compared to the iron wire, and means are taken to soften it so, that it may resemble the lead or pewter. These means consist of the application of lather made of soap and water. There are many forms for this application: some use the shaving-box; others form a lather by nibbing upon a cake of soap a shaving-brush previously dipped into water; some, more recherche, use a perfumed essence of soap. We are ourselves content with the most simple of all methods of applying the lather, because we find it perfectly answers our purpose. Having rubbed, with a rather stiff shaving-brush, water over our beard for about two minutes, we next wet. one side of a[ -133 1 SHA SHE calte or piece of any good latliering soap, the best yellow in preference, and rub it upon our chin. The brush being applied to this soon forms a good lather upon the skin ; this we wash off, repeat the operation, and then commence shaving. People who have not tried it can have no idea of the advantage derived from lathering the face twice over, the first lathering being washed off, and the face wiped before the second is applied. When of luxuriant growth the beard should each day be subjected to the operation of the razor. The best time for shavinc; is the morn- ing immediately on rising, for at this time the beard is softer than during any succeeding part of the day. When the skin is tender the best thing to remove the heat of the razor is a little cold cream, applied after the face has been washed. Never wipe your razor upon paper, but upon a shaving napkin made of very soft linen. The best material for making these napkins is old and long-used table-cloths, or old linen shirts. After shaving, the razor, before it is stropped, should be carefully and delicately wiped upon a, separate napkin of the sam.e material. See Razor.—(Magazine of Domestic Econowy.) SHAVING LIQUID. Rub well in a marble xnortar 1 oz. of Castile soap with 2 drachms of salt of tartar. Add by degrees half a pint of fine lavender water, with 2 grains of camphor dissolved in it. When the whole is well incor- porated together filter it, and keep it in closely stopped bottles. For use put 10 drops into a small wine-glassful of water, dip the shaving- brush into the water, and by rubbing it on the face a fine lather will be immediately obtained. SHAVING PASTE. Melt together ] drachm each of spermaceti, white wax, and almond oil; beat it up with 2 ozs. of the best white soap, and a little lavender or Cologne water. Or, Naples soap beaten up with suiEcient powdered soap to form a stiff paste. Or, white soft soap, 4 ozs.; powdered Castile soap, 1 oz.; oil of olives or almonds, \ oz. SHAVING POWDER. Melt together in a water-bath 1 lb. of white soap with 1 oz. of powdered spermaceti, and \ oz. of chlorate of potash dissolved in a little water or rose water. Pour the liquefied soap into a shallow mould: when solidified shave it fine, and dry as above. —[Beasleys Dnir/gist's Receipt Book.) SHAVING SOAP. Cut into thin shavings 3 lbs. of good white soap, and to this add 1 lb. of palm soap, 1 oz. of soda, and about f lb. of soft water. Melt the whole in an earthen vessel over a slow fire, and add 60 drops of the oil of laven- der, 100 of lemon, and 50 of bergamot: place it in forms to cool. SHEEP'S HEAD AND PLUCK. Sea Lamb's Head and Pluck. VOL. II. SHEEP'S TAILS, BRATPED. Clean and wash the tails thoroughly, scald them, and then put them into a saucepan on slices of streaked bacon, with tarragon, a bunch of sweet herbs, turnips, parsley, salt, pepper, and moisten th.e whole with consomme; cover them closely, and braise them till quite tender; then lay the tails on a dish, and pour the other articles over them. SHEEP'S TAILS, ROASTED. Having thoroughly washed the tails in warm water, scald them for five min.utes in boiling water; then cove^ them completely with bread crumbs, mised with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper ; fasten the tails to a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire. Any sauce you please iray be served with them. SHEEP'S TONGUE PIE. Line a dish with some good puff paste, and lay at the bottom of it some good forcemeat made of roasted poultry, suet, parsley, chopped mushrooms, pep- per, salt, and a few fine spices; upon this place the tongues cut in two, and upon them a good slice of ham, a little butter, and a few slices of bacon; put on the cover, and bake it. When done take out the bacon and ham, skim off all the fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. SHEEP'S TONGUES, BROILED. Having parboiled the tongues in a little stock, split each; give them a few turns in some melted butter, strewing over them salt, pepper, shred parsley, and bread crumbs. When well covered with the latter lay them on a gridiron, and broil them slowly. SHEEP'S TONGUES, ROASTED. Take six sheep's tongues, and having properly pre- pared them, lard them with small lardons, tie them to a skewer, wrap a buttered paper round, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire. A little before they are done take off the papers, baste them with butter, and make them of a nice colour. Serve with whatever sauce you may prefer. SHEEP'S TROTTERS. First boil and then put them into a stewpan. with a glass of white wine, half a pint of broth, as much cullis, some sweet herbs, salt, whole pepper, and mace ; stew them on a slow fire till the sauce is re- duced ; then take out the herbs, and serve them with or without a ragout of cucumbers. SHEEP'S TROTTERS IN PASTE. Put the feet into a pan, with some melted butter, parsley, scallions, morels, and streaked bacon ; set them on the fire, and stew them. Cut somo puff paste into twice as many pieces as you have feet, and in every two wrap a foot; close the ends nicely, do them over with yolk of egg, and bake them in a moderate oven. The feet should not be boned. SHEEP'S TROTTERS, STUFFED. Boil the feet in some good stock till the bones will 2 FSUE SIII [ 401 ] come out with eap^; fill the space left by tliera with a good fowl or chicken farce, dip them well in lard, hi'ead them well, and Lake in a moderate oven. The space left by the bones is sometimes filled with a bit of fried bread. In tliis case the feet are only previously boiled, and then served with cream sauce. SHELFORD PUDDING. Mix f lb. of currants or stoned raisins, 1 lb. of flour, the same quantity of suet, six eggs, some good milk, lemon-peel grated, and a little salt. Boil the pudding in a melon-shaped mould six hours. SHERBET. This is a delicious beverage, composed of cream mixed with various articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, coffee, choco- late, and sugar, and then iced. Sherbet may also be made of various fruits sweetened to the taste, for the method of preparing which see the different articles it is usually composed of. When the liquor is sufficiently limpid and cold jjour it into a silver or tin sarbotiere, and ice it as usual. See Ice : To Prepaee. SHERBET, ORANGE. Dissolve H lb. of sugar in a quart of veiy pure water; take nine fine oranges and two fine lemons ; wipe them well with a napkin, and having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze on them the juice of the fruits; sweeten this juice with the above syrup, run the whole through a close hair sieve, and finish in the usual way. SHERRY. The district in which the true sherry is produced is in the neighbourhood of Xeres de la Frontera, twenty-one miles to the north of Cadiz, and the whole extent of vine- yards, which produce wine fit for the British market does not exceed 7000 acres; but, in- cluding those of Puerta San Maria and San Lucar, they may be estimated at double tbat extent. A great number of the wines exported to Great Britain under the name of sherry are the growth of Atalagar, and are brought round and transhipped at Cadiz. Most of the sherries sold in this country under forty shillings a dozen are the commonest qualities of San Lucar and Puerta San Maria vineyards, if they are nothing worse; and all the low-priced wines are largely mixed with brandy, being intended for the consumption of a class who are unable to judge of any quality in wine but its strength. The whole quantity of sherry annually exported from Xeres does not exceed 25,000 butts, and in no case do the exporters send a general natural wine as it comes from the press, without a mixture o_f other qualities. No wine is allowed by law to be sold till it is twelve months old; but the more respectable wine merchants never ship wine for this country till it has attained the age of two years. The exporters purchase the wine from the growers when it is generally about one year old, and the ordinary stock of one of the largest houses in Xeres is said to be 4000 butts ; and this is kept in casks of various sizes, in regular rows, in some parts of the cellar to the height of four tiers. They are called soleras, aud are always kept in cellars, and contain wines of various qualities and ages, from one to fifty years old. The wine merchants never exhaust their finest and oldest wines. Ac- cording to the price at which the wine sent to market is intended to be sold, so it contains a larger or smaller proportion of wine. But it is only in wines of a very high price that even a small portion of their finest wines is mixed. That which is drawn from the oldest and finest casks is made up from the casks which approach nearest in age and quality, and these are re- plenished from the next age and quality to them : thus a cask of wine said to be fifty years old may contain a portion of the vintages of thirty or forty seasons. The higher qualities of sherry are made up of wine the bulk of which is from three to five years old, and this is also mixed in various proportions with older wines : thus, from the gradual mixture of wines of various ages, no wine can be further from what may be called a " natural wine " than sheiTy.— [Hoffg's Vegetable Kingdom.) • SHIFT. See Chemise. SHINGLES is a kind of Erysipelas, and requires the treatment directed under that head. SHIRT-MAICLNG. We never yet saw a shirt the shoulder-straps of which were not too long in proportion to its size; and if any one will take the trouble to watch the movements of a youth while rowing, playing at cricket, &c., the remark will be borne out. Not only, in consequence, do all the wear and tear of the shoulder occur in the middle of the shoulder- strap, and below it, on the part of the shirt that is single, where no binder exists, but the top of the sleeve commences halfway down to the elbow, and a drag necessarily ensues upon that part of the garment which, though the weakest, is thus made to do all the duty, while we lavish double and treble thicknesses of cloth upon binders and shoulder-straps, which almost entirely escape the calls that are intended to be made upon them. The best shape for a binder is triangular, the widest part to reach and be fastened to the collar, with an opening to admit the neck-gusset, and the narrow ends to meet a little below the arm-holes, where the binder need not be above an inch in width, that part of the shirt being liable to no extra wear and tear. All notable wives and mothers have, we doubt not, felt that species of minor self-pity which the unexpected sight of dilapidated sleeve- gussets is wont to inspire. If they will watchSHI [ ^35 ] SIII other strips, each three inches in width i and cut for shirts. A piece twenty-six yards long, and a. a youth while at play—when throwing a hall, for example—witliout his coat, they will see that the shape of the arm-hole in his waistcoat is round, while that of his shirt is long, extending, moreover, far below the former: the consequence is, that with every movement of the arm the gusset is " frayed," and strained across the middle hy the edge of the waistcoat. This is a proof that the arm-hole of the shirt is too long (an invariable fault), and that for want of ease in the set of the gusset it will wear out quickly, and tear away at the lower point. To obviate these defects we recommend a plan which we have acted upon for years with satisfactory results, namely, to let the gussets be large and set in full; not so full as the sleeve, but easy, so as to prevent the drag upon that part, and shorten the arm-hole. When shirt collars (those with a narrow band and pieces cut the cross way) are cut out, all the little scraps of fine Irish should be saved, in order to be used for covering the buttons. With this trifling extra trouble when shirts are made the buttons will wear out the set; whereas, if this be neglected, the wire buttons will cut through with the force used in ironing, and require to be renewed every two or three months, and of mother-of-pearl there is no end. Bdtton-holes. By attending to the follow- ing simple rule button-holes will always retain their shape ; by neglecting it they w ill inevitably stretch and become round, so that the buttons easily slip out precisely when they are most wished to remain in. Before the overcasting is begun sew one end over strongly, and run the thread in and out (or even stitch it) to the other end, which also sew over; then continue it round to the first, and begin to work or overcast it. This preliminary operation is intended to strengthen and keep the edges together. Calicoes are now dressed with lime, and should always be washed with soap thoroughly, not merely soaked in plain water, before they are made up; but where it is not convenient or desirable to wet them first, the difficulty of working them will be overcome by rubbing them with a piece of dry yellow soap down the seams, and, in short, wherever the needle is intended to pass. Unless fine Irish be purchased for shirts, &c., it will be found to be cheaper, in every sense of the word, to substitute good calico. Of this fact, from long and ample experience, we are quite certain. A piece of linen generally measures twenty- six yards in length. It is made of different widths — some three quarters, some seven- eighths, some a yard, and some an ell, or five quarters ; but yard-wide linen is mostly preferred yard wide, makes eight shirts. There are nineteen parts in a shirt—the body, two sleeves, two wrist- bands, two binders, two shoulder-straps, one collar or band, two sleeve-gussets, two neck- gussets, two side-gussets, two wrist-gussets, and one bosom-gusset. Obtain a pattern shirt, as that enables you to ascertain the exact length and cut for the body, and also all the other parts. But supposing you should not be able to get a pattern shirt, then measure the girth of the person's neck for the length of the collar or band, and the girth of his wrist for the length of the wristbands. Supposing that you aro going to make your eight shirts out of a piece of cloth twenty-six yards in length, cut tha bodies first, for which purpose take off seven- teen yards, and divide it into eight equal parts ; each part will then be two yards and a quarter long. Then cut off five yards and a half-quarter for eight pairs of sleeves; this divide into eight equal parts. Each breadth will make a pair of sleeves twenty inches in length, and half a yard, or eighteen inches, in width. Next take off seven-eighths for six collars. Cut this along the selvage into three equal parts ; each part will then be twelve inches wide, and must ba cut across in the middle, so that the length may be about fifteen inches and three-quarters. Cut off half a yard for six pairs of wristbands ; there will be six in the width of the cloth, each six inches wide; and two in the length, nine inches long. Cut off twelve inches for six pairs of sleeve-gussets: the width of the cloth will give six, each six inches wide; and the length will give two, six inches long. The sleeve- binders should be about twenty-five inches long; therefore cut off half a yard and three nails. The width of the cloth will allow of twelve strips, each strip three inches in width; and thus you get six pairs of sleeve-binders. Next cut out the shoulder-straps for six shirts. Take off ten inches and a half of cloth, and this will give twelve strips cut from the width of the cloth, each strip being three inches wide. The neck and side-gussets must be of the same dimensions as the shoulder-straps ; therefore cut off nine inches or a quarter of a yard; then divide the piece along the selvage into eight strips. Each strip will thus be four inches and a half wide, and, when cut across the middle, four inches and a half in length. These square pieces, cut angularly, will answer both purposes for the eight shirts. Take a strip twelve inches wide off the full length along the selvage, and, when cut across, this will form two collars. Cut otF another strip in the same direction six inches wide ; and this, when cut across into four parts, will serve for two pairs of wristbands. For the sleeve-binders and shoulder-straps cut off' foursni [ 430 ] SHI the strips across, so that one part of each will be tweuty-five inches and a half long, and the other ten and a half. With the four longer strips make two pairs of sleeve-binders, and with the four shorter ones two pairs of shoulder-straps. There is a strip of a yard in length, and six inches in width, yet undisposed of. Fold this piece angularly, so that when it is opened it will present a square, and four of these squares will serve for the two pairs of sleeve-gussets. The little remnant, twelve inches in length by pix in width, cut into breast and wrist-gussets. The parts which require stitching, such as the collar and wristbands, should be done first. Then fold the body across at the middle, so as to form back and front, and divide it into three equal parts—one part for the arms to pass through, another to form the seams at the sides, and the third is intended to form the opening of the shirt. Tack on the sleeve-binders before sewing the seams at the sides, and place the selvages, when there are any, next to the sleeve. The seams of shirts should be sewed always on the right side, and accordingly the hem at the ends must be on the opposite side. Next put in the side-gussets, and, when set in, stitch them neatly across from one angle or corner to the opposite. Fold the body in two, placing the selvages together, and cutting down in the middle, to form the opening at the bosom. In full-sized men's shirts this opening is generally five nails in length ; in smaller shirts it must be regulated according to the sizes—perhaps about one-third part of the entire length. Either hem or back-stitch the breast or bosom, as may happen to be directed. If it be hemmed, the hem must be on the wrong side ; if back-stitched, the work must be done on the right side. Then set in the small gusset. The neck-gussets are shaped like a half-handkerchief. Place one of the straight sides of a gusset on the shoulder-strap, and pin the strap on the shirt, with the gusset towards the bosom ; then cut along the top of the shirt transversely on each side of the bosom as far as the right angle or corner of the gusset. Sew or stitch in the neck-gussets, placing the seam and the raw edges on the right side; then turn down a fold on each side of the shoulder- strap, and draw threads for the stitching, four or five threads from the double edge. Fold the shoulder-strap along the middle lengthways, and tack it slightly on the shoulder of the shijt; then open it^ and place it flat upon the shirt in the way in which it is to be stitched; then cut it at the end next the collar as far as the angle or corner of the gusset, after which separate the two parts, and place one on each side of the neck-gusset, over the seams. The raw edges where the straps were divided must be turned down, and theso parts stitched in the same manner as the others^ Double neck-gussets should be formed from a square piece folded crossways, with one half placed on each side of the shirt. The gusset may be either stitched upon the shirt, or tho shirt stitched upon it, in two rows of stitching, and the inside part of the gusset hemmed, and neatly fitted to the outside half. In the latter case the shoulder-strap should be placed straight along the middle of the gusset, and then stitched on in the same direction. Before setting on the collar take off a small slope at the front of the neck, about an inch in the centre of the bosom, and slope off gradually to the shoulders, and, if the gussets are double, gather each separately; then gather the neck, and set on the collar. Should the gathering thread break, take in a fresh thread at the half or quarters only. Either white silk, or thread rubbed with white wax, is best for this purpose. Hem down the sleeve- binders, and finish them across the ends. Pre- pare the sleeves by first hemming the opening at the wrist, which opening should be of the same length as half of the wristband ; then gather the sleeves, and put on the wristbands, and next join up the sleeves, either by stitch and fell, or any other mode of double seam, as may be directed, and set in the small wrist- gussets. Gather the tops of the sleeves, and set them in, taking care that the fulness of the top of the sleeve corresponds, as to space, with that at the wrist. Cut the button- holes on the left side, and, having worked them, sew on the buttons. Mark the shirts over the right side-gusset, and on the right side. The hem at the bosom and the shoulder- straps should be set m without gathers. Full bosoms must be made separately in large or small plaits, and inserted in the shirts, from which thirteen inches should be taken to make room for them. It is an improvement to set in a portion of the fulness at the back, under the neck-gusset. If shirts be worn with separate collars, the collar, or rather band, requires only to be about a nail in breadth, or two inches and a quarter when doubled; and it should be about three quarters of an inch deeper at the back of the neck than in the front. Double the piece of cloth for the body, so as to leave the front flap an eighth shorter than the hind flap. Flannels. All flannels should be soaked before they are made up—first in cold, then in hot water—in order to shrink them. Welsh flannel is the softest, and should be preferred if it is to be worn next the skin; but Lan- cashire flannel looks finer, lasts longer, ana should therefore be selected when the above is not its destination. Under flannel garments should be frequently changed, because they[ 437 ] SHO SHO imbibe perspiration, whicb is liable to be ab- sorbed again into the system, and this is injurious. All flannel vestments that are made full should be gathered, not plaited, because in the latter case they become thick and matted by washing; and in the event of their being turned from top to bottom, in order to alter the wear, the part that had been plaited will be found to be so drawn and injured that two or three inches of it must be cut off. All fulness in calico and other materials used for wearing apparel, such as the tops of petticoat sleeves, should be gathered, and not set in plaits, because they can never be " got up " smoothly, and are liable to be torn with the point of the iron.—{Finchley Manual.) SHOE. See Boots. SHORT BREAD, SCOTCH. Warm 4 lbs. of butter, but do not oil it; sift 8 lbs. of fine floui', keeping out 1 lb. to work it up with, li lb. of moist sugar rolled till it is quite fine, 1 lb. of bakers' caraways, 1 lb. of orange-peel cut in small pieces, 1 lb. of sweet almonds blanched and cut, and ^Ih. of citron cut small; mix all well together, work it till it becomes smooth, and divide it into ten equal parts. Take soft brown paper (half a sheet for each cake), dust it with a little flour, roll the paste out square on it, and pinch it up on all sides; prick it well, and strew some caraways on the top. Put it in the oven when the bottom has a solid heat. A quarter of an hour will bake it. SHOWER-BATH. The shower-bath is the application of water, generally cold, by letting it fall upon the head and body through a vessel perforated with small holes like a cullender. The shock produced by this discharge of water generally drives the blood from the head to the lower extremities, and from the surface of the skin to the interior , but, by an almost instan^ taneous reaction, the blood is brought back to the surface, and the whole body is in a healthy glow ere the discharge of water, which should last sixty or seventy seconds, is over. It has been thought that, in persons having a tendency to determination of blood to the head, the re- action brought back the blood to the head in a rush, often attended with danger. This is, however, not the case. The stream of blood, on being sent from the head by the coh lapse of the blood-vessels which the shook pro- duces, is distributed by the reaction in an equal proportion throughout the system, and does not, therefore, return to the head, except in such quantity as will impart to that organ the same equalised temperature that exists all over the body. In subjects having a decided tendency to apoplexy it might be thought advisable, under the direction of a medical attendant, to stand in warm, or even hot water, whilst the shower of cold water is flowing over the head. The reason of this is obvious : the heat of the water causes an expansion, or rather a relaxation, of the blood-vessels of the feet, by which they are enabled to receive and retain any excess of blood that may be driven from the head, whilst the reaction takes a sufficient quantity to the surface of the latter, to keep it at the equalised temperature before mentioned. The reaction produced by the shock of the shower-bath appears—by bringing the blood to the surface of the skin, and equalising its tem- perature, as well as that of the interior of the body—to produce a most beneficial result, in- asmuch as an action takes place on the viscera of the abdomen, on the stomach, and, in most cases, all through the intestinal canal, espe- cially on the duodenum and the colon, in one or other of which there is always disturbance in dyspepsia, which disturbance, in most dyspeptic cases, the shower-bath will remove, giving the proper excitement to the lower intestines, and often removing obstructions without the further aid of medicine. The shower-bath has been strongly recom- mended by some of our greatest physicians as most beneficial to those who, from leading a sedentary life, and overloading their stomachs with an excess of strong animal food, have de- teriorated their digestive organs to such a degree that the functions of the stomach and intestines are in a state of constant disturbance. In such oases the shower-bath will be found most beneficial, though we must state that, in order to insure its being so, the patient must alter his mode of living, and pursue a strict regimen. To persons in good health, as well as to the apoplectic and the dyspeptic, the shower-bath offers incalculable benefits. It regulates the action of the stomach and bowels, keeps the body in a pleasant glow in winter, and imparts to it a refreshing coolness in sultry weather; it gives appetite, facilitates digestion, quiets the nerves, and produces a placidity of mind which can exist only under the most perfect action of the animal functions. Much dread has been expressed by delicate females at the shock of the shower-bath, and this dread has been rather humoured than com- bated by their medical attendants. The conse- quence has been that one of the most powerful means in nervous and dyspeptic affections has been lost, from an imaginary, or at least a weak and foolish fear. The shock of the shower- bath, properly taken, ought to produce no un- pleasant effect; the sensation at first ought to be scarcely stronger than it is during the whole time that the water is flowing, unless in casesSHO I 438 ] SHO of inflammation of the brain, of mental aberra- tion, of violent neuralgia, or where a tendency to apoplexy exists. In those cases the water is made to fall in a very small stream from a con- siderable height, which certainly causes a sensa- tion of considerable weight, and at times occa- sions great pain ; but when the water flows in a copious shower, falling from not higher than a foot or eighteen inches above the head, as is the case in the ordinary shower-bath, neither is the shock formidable nor the sensation produced unpleasant. In summer the bi'acing power of the shower- bath is almost a renovation of life. The feel- ing arising from it is one of luxurious delight, and a vigour is sent through the system, whieh the heat of the dog-days would tend to destroy. In India the shower-bath, often in a very rude form, that of mere earthenware pots of cold water thrown over the head and body from a certain height, is used by all classes of Euro- peans, and the most delicate ladies enjoy it as one of the indispensable comforts of the climate. During the hot weather in our own country it ■would be found equally beneficial if the preju- dice against it could be overcome, and if, in- stead of a medical remedy, it could be con- sidered an article of luxury. Many persons accustomed to the shower-bath take it all the year through, using the cold water in the depth of winter and during the hardest frost. But under this degree of intense cold the discharge of water should not last long, because the reaction being induced in a much shorter space of time than when the temperature is more elevated, might with difficulty take place if it were kept too long in check. Some constitutions, however, find inconvenience from the extreme cold produced when the water is so near the freezing point; and when this is the case a certain quantity of hot water may be poured into the reservoir at the top of the bath, so that the temperature be made sufficiently high not to cause inconvenience, and yet kept low enough to give the shock and produce the reaction required. One of the most eminent physicians in the metropolis uses the shower- bath with cold water during the whole year, a practice which he has now continued for a period of six or seven years with the greatest benefit to his health, and more especially with a perfect release from dyspepsia, to which he was previously a constant victim. From his expe- rience of the benefits he has himself derived from it, the use of the shower-bath forms part of his practice, and the good he has effected with it is almost marvellous, even the most delicate ladies using it without dread, and deriving from it a renovation of health and vigour, which they before thought had gone from them for ever. To those who-would begin to use the shower- bath as a permanent remedy we would recom- mend the summer as the best season for such beginning. In winter, the shock being much greater, and the patient probably unaccustomed to exposure to cold, the effect might be too strong, especially upon sickly temperaments, which require great caution in the medical treatment applied to them. If, however, the case were pressing, the temperature of the water might first be raised by adding hot water, and then gradually diminished. The best time to use this remedy—luxury we would fain term it—is in the morning im- mediately on leaving the bed, as it gives an equilibrium to the constitution, which enables it to go through the duties of the coming day. Besides the healthy glow imparted to the whole body, an appetite is ci-eated, and the means given of properly digesting, in reasonable quan- tities, the food which the stomach craves. In- digestion is the usual concomitant of a seden- tary life, and of the practice which generally attends it of overloading the stomach with strong and half-crude animal food ; and the consequences of this complaint are more fatal to human life than people generally imagine. It is the cause of numerous cases of apoplexy and of nervous debility which are constantly attributed to other causes, the former to an excess of health, the latter to an excess of con- stitutional weakness—both, in short, to any- thing but the right cause. When dyspepsia becomes evident the stomach is in such a state that it will scarcely digest anything, and the disturbance of the whole system is alarming. Nothing removes this disturbance so soon as the shower-bath combined with any slight medical treatment, and those dyspeptics who try this remedy are soon convinced of its efficacy. Some persons have an objection to cold water coming in contact with their head ; others com- plain that such contact produces pain; and ladies also are averse to having their hair wetted, from the difficulty they experience in drying it. To such persons we recommend the use of an oil- skin bathing-cap, which will prevent the water from reaching the haii-, and yet impart to the head a sufficient degree of cold to produce the shock and the consequent reaction. To those ladies, howevei-, who complain of the difficulty of drying their hair, we will indicate the means employed in India under the same circum- stances by persons of their own sex. The lady reclines upon a sofa, over one of the arms of which the hair is allowed to fall loosely. Under it is a chafing-dish containing a little ignited charcoal, upon which is thrown some pulverised gum benzoin. The srnoke that arises is allowed[ 439 ] SIB SHE to go tlirougli tlie lialr, which the attendant domestic spreads open : it is perfectly dry in the course of two minutes, besides being im- pregnated with the fragrant perfume of the ben- zoin. In India manj'' ladies wear no oil-skin upon their heads during the bath, and are there- fore obliged to dry their hair every day, which is always done in the manner described with- out the least trouble or difficulty. To the person using the shower-bath every morning the warm bath may not be necessary more than once or twice a week; but every in- dividual must consult his own idiosyncrasies, and regulate his warm bathing accordingly. The shower-bath ought to be used every day, although some practitioners recommend it every other day, and sometimes once only in three days. Some constitutions also may find it necessary to leave off the shower-bath during the three winter months, though we must observe, in favour of the continued use of it, that those who take the shower-bath throughout the winter are effectually guaranteed from catch- ing cold.—[Magazine of Domestic Economy.) SHRIMP PIE. Pick a quart of slirimps, and if very salt only season them with mace and one or two cloves; mince two or three an- chovies, mix them with the spicery, and season the shrimps; put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and pour over the shrimps a glass of sharp white wine ; cover the whole with a puff paste, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. SHRI]\IP SAUCE. Pick a pint of shrimps : clean, wash, and put them into a pint of melted butter. Some persons stew the heads and shells with mace fifteen minutes, and strain off the liquor for the purpose of melting butter with, adding thereto alittle lemon juice, Cayenne, essence of anchovy, or soy; but, as the latter destroy the flavour of the shrimps, they should be omitted. SHRIMP SOUP. See Peawns, Soup of. SHRIMPS : To Choose, These fish, when fresh, are hard, stiff, and of a pleasant smell, but the contrary when stale, besides which they will then be slimy and of a pale colour. SHRIMPS : To Gbill. Stew the shrimps in a little water, with salt, pepper, and shred parsley; butter some scallop shells, and put in some grated bread, on which lay the shrimps; cover them with bread, add a little more butter, set them on the gridiron for a short lime, brown them with a salamander, and serve. SHRIMPS: To Stew. See Prawns: To Stew. SHRIMPS IN A GRATIN. Take oiie or two quarts of shrimps, according to the size you wish the dish; pick and toss them hi a good bechamel, witli a little lobster spawn mixed in it, as directed for Lobster Sauce ; make tho whole very hot, and add the squeeze of a lemon ; then lay it on a dish, and strew crumbs of bread over it the same as for other gratins. Colour it with the salamander before it is served to the table. SHRIMPS, POTTED. Boil them in salt and water, and when picked strew over them beaten mace, grated nutmeg or allspice, pepper, and salt; add thereto a little cold butter, and pound the whole well till it is of the consistence of paste. Pot and cover it with clarified butter, and tie some bladder over it. SHROPSHIRE PIE. Make a good puff paste ; cut two rabbits in pieces, with 2 lbs. of fat pork chopped small, season with pepper and salt; cover your dish with the crust, and lay in the rabbits, with the pork intermixed. Par- boil the livers of the rabbits, and beat them in a mortar, with as much fat bacon and a few sweet herbs ; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix with the yolk of an egg, make it into balls, and throw them into the pie ; grate some nutmeg over the meat, and put in a pint and a half of water. Bake the pie an hour and a half in a quick oven. SHRUB. Rum, 1 gallon; orange juice, 1 pint; lemon juice, 1 pint; the peels of two oranges; the peel of one lemon. Mix, and let them stand for twenty-four hours ; strain, and add 4 lbs. of loaf sugar dissolved in five pints of water. The above makes rum shrub, and brandy shrub is made in the same way, substituting that spirit for the rum. SHRUB, CURRANT. To a quart of rum or brandy put three quarters of a pint of the strained juice of red or white cun-ants, half the rind of a Seville orange, and a little nutmeg. After standing one or two days well corked add a pint of sherry, with fib. of loaf sugar, and strain it, as soon as the sugar is dis- solved, through a flannel bag. Bottle it for use. Red currants will be best for brandy, and white for rum. Good raisin wine may be mounted or substituted for sherry. SHRUB, ORANGE. Put 10 lbs. of crushed sugar to two gallons of water, and boil it till it be dissolved; skim it well, and put it into a tub. When quite cold pour it into a barrel, and add three quarts of Jamaica rum and six quarts of orange juice (take care there are no pips); beat up the white of an egg, mix it with the shrub, and let it stand for a week; then dravv it off and bottle. SIBERIAN CRABS : To Preserve. Take their weight in sugar, and make a syrup with apple jelly. When well boiled prick the crabs, and put them into it; let them boil a few minutes,SKA [ 440 ] SIC tlien take them out, and put tliem on a sieve to drain. When nearly cold put them again into the syrup, boil them a few minutes more, and drain them as Lefore. Do this a third time, observing the same rules as at first; then put them into glasses or jars, aad pour the jelly over them boiling. SICKNESS. See Inv.^lids and Nausea. SIGHT. See Eye and Spectacles. SILK, WASHING. Lay the piece of silk upon a clean board; soap a piece of flannel well without making it very wet, and with this Irub the silk carefully and evenly one way. After having thus cleansed one side of the silk take a wet sponge, and wash off the soap; proceed in the same manner to clean the other side, and then wipe the water off of each with a clean dry cloth, after which hang the silk in the air to dry. Do not wring it, but hang it as single as possible upon a linen horse, and let it dry gradually. When very nearly dry iron it with a cool box-iron. In this manner a slate- coloured dress, which was so dirty with the constant wear of a winter, that we did not like to use it even for linings without endeavoui'ing to remove some of the spots (and we were quite hopeless of its being fit for anything except linings even when washed), had its brightness completely restored, its texture was softer than when new, and it made a very nice-looking child's frock. We have twice washed a purple cloth frock of the same kind of material as that now called Indiana. This we have done without taking it in pieces; but a silk dress cannot be washed whole, as it must not be rubbed iu the hands lest it should fray. We have also seen a black bombazine dress which was washed wJiole by the common washerwoman - it was not only cleaner than when new, but much softer. Black silk may be refreshed by laying it in cold spring water for a day and night. To wash silk stockings. First wash the Btockings in the usual manner to take out the rough dirt. After rinsing them in clean water wash them well in a fresh soap liquor; then make a third soap liquor, which colour with a little stone blue ; then wash the stockings once more, take them out, wring them, and particularly dry them. Now stove them with brimstone, and draw on a wooden leg two stockings, one upon the other, observing that the two fronts or out- sides are face to face. Polish with a glass bottle. The first two liquors should beonlylukewarm.but the third as hot as you can bear your hand in. . Blonds and gauzes may be whitened in the same manner; but there should be a little gum put in the last liquor before they are stoved. See Stockings. To clean coloured silks. Dissolve some white soap in boiling water until it forms a strong lather. When at blood heat dip iu the article, and if very foul it may be rubbed as in washing, otherwise rinse it two or three times, then remove it quickly into a tub of warm water, and I'inse it repeatedly until you get the soap out. Two or three waters will effect this, and in the last you should mix a little oil of vitriol, sufficient to give it a sourish taste, when the article is bright yellow, crimson, maroon, or scarlet; but use no acid for fawns, oranges, browns, or other shades. For bright scarlet use a solution of chloride of tin Next squeeze out the water gently, fold the article in a sheet, and wring it. Hang it in a warm room to dry, and finish by mangling or calendering. For pinks, rose colours, or their shades, use a little lemon juice, vinegar, or white tartar, in preference to oil of vitriol or solution of tin. For purples, blues, and shades of these hues, add a small quantity of pearlash, which will freshen and restore the colours. Wash the articles like linen garments; but, instead of wringing, gently squeeze and sheet them as directed above, and when dry finish them with fine gum water or dissolved isinglass, to which add a little pearlash rubbed ou the wrong side, and then pin them out. Blues of all shades are dyed with archil, and afterwards dipped in a vat: twice cleaning with pearlash restores the colour. For olive greens a small quantity of verdigris dissolved in water, or a solution of copper mixed with the water, will revive the colour again. See Scoueing. SILVER. /See Plate. SINAPISM. See Poultice, Mustaed. SIPPET PUDDING. Cut a small loaf into extremely thin slices, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, then a layer of marrow or beef suet, a la^-er of currants, then a layer of bread again, &c., and so continue until the dish is filled. Mix four eggs well beaten with a quart of cream, a nutmeg, :|-lb. of sugar, and pour over. Set it in the oven. It will take half an hour's baking. SILiTE ". To Boil, Skate is much better for keeping three or four days, (The back is very much like a crab, and, where it is under- stood, is generally dressed for it, or in a salad.) Make a braise with water, a sprig of basil, a clove of garlic, parsley, onions, and half a hand- ful of salt. This braise would be better if cooked an hour with the parings of the skate, and allowed to cool. Put in the skate, allow it just to boil, take it off the fire, and put in the liver; cover it with a cloth, and leave it ten minutes; take up the skate, and cut off the brown meat, which may be minced and put into the saucepan, strain a little of the braise over, and leave till there is just time for dishing; drain it, and dish it upon a napkin.SKA SKI [ Ul ] Garnish with the liver. Pour melted butter aud strew capers over it. . SKATES. When good they are very white and thick. If dressed too fresh they are hard and unpleasant to the taste. They should, therefore, be kept a day or two, but not long enough to produce an unpleasant smell. SKIN. (See Cosmetics.) The skin must not be considered merely as a common covering to defend us from the sun and the rain, but as one of the most important organs of our body, without the incessant activity and agency of which there can be neither health nor long life, and in the neglect of which, in modern times, lies the secret source of numberless diseases and evils that tend to shorten our existence. The skin is the greatest medium for purifying our bodies, and every moment a multitude of useless, corrupted, and worn - out particles evaporate through its numberless small vessels in an insensible manner. This secretion is in- separably connected with life and the circulation of our blood, and by it the greater part of all the impurity of our bodies is removed. If the skin, therefore, be flabby or inactive, and if its pores be stopped up, an acridity and corruption of our juices will be the unavoidable consequence, and the most dangerous diseases may ensue. Besides, the skin is the seat oi feeling, the most general of all our senses, or that which in an essential manner connects us with surround' ing nature, and in particular with the atmo- sphere, and by the state of which, in a great measure, the sensation of our own existence, and the relation we bear to everything around us, are determined. Hence a greater or less sensibility in regard to disease depends very much on the skin ; and those whose skin is weak or relaxed have generally a sensation too delicate and unnatural, by which means it happens that they are internally affected, in a manner highly disagreeable, by every small variation in the weather, every change of the atmosphere, and at length become real barometers. Such a con- stitution is called the rheumatic, and arises chiefly from a want of strength in the skin. It occasions a tendency to perspii'ation, which is also an unnatural state, and which exposes us continually to colds and other disorders. It is likewise a grand means for preserving an equilibrium in the powers and motion of our bodies. The more open and active the skin is, the more secure will people be against obstruc- tions, and diseases of the lungs, intestines, and lower belly, and the less tendency will they have to bilious fevers, hypochondriasis, gout, asthma, catarrh, and piles. One great cause of these disorders being so common among us is, that we no longer endeavour to cleanse and Strengthen the skin by bathing and other meang. The skin, moreover, is one of the most important means of the restoration of our bodies, by which a multitude of fine spiritual component parts are conveyed to us from the atmosphere. Without a sound skin there can be no complete restoration, which is one of the chief principles of long life. It ought also not to be forgotten that the skin is the grand organ of crises, that is to say, the assistant of nature in disease, and that a man with open pores and a skin sufficiently vigorous may depend on being cured much more easily, and with moi'e cei-tainty, and often even without the use of medicine. That such an organ must be a great support of health and life no one will deny; and it is therefore incomprehensible how people in modern times, since mankind have become more enlightened, should neglect it so much. Nay, we in general find that, instead of paying the least attention to it, they from their infancy do everything in their power, as it were, to relax and to weaken it, and to stop up its pores. The generality of mankind seldom or never experience the benefit of bathing during their whole lives ; the skin by dirt and daily perspiration is more and more stopped up, weakened, and relaxed by warm clothing, furs, feather beds, &c.; rendered inactive by confined air and a sedentary life; and we think we may without exaggeration assert that, among the greater part of men, the pores of the skin are half closed and unfit for use. SKIRT. The following is extracted from "The Dress - Maker," published by Messrs. Houlston and Stoneman :— Some few things are true about the making of all skirts, through every change of fashion, and whether the dress be of the coarsest stuff or of the richest satin. These are— 1. That you should pin or tack together the breadths of the skirt at the top before you begin, that you may not chance to put in more gores on one side than the other, if there are gores, or find that the hind-breadth comes to one side. 2. That you should, while thus arranging the breadths, look very carefully that no one is turned wrong side out if there are two sides, or, if figured, with the pattern upside down. 3. That, as the uppermost edge takes up the most, as your work lies over your finger, and as the cut edge stretches more than the selvage, you should pin from top to bottom, before you begin to join them, the breadths on which you are employed. This is the only sure way of avoiding puckering. 4. That you should, as often as possible, begin your run at the top, that, if there is any left over, it may go off at the bottom, where it is ofSLE SLE [ ] tlie least consequence. You can do tliis in every case but ^vlien you have to join a cut edge and a selvage, and must begin at the bottom, in order to have tlie selvage uppermost. 5. That you must remember that gored skirts liang lower at the bottom of the gores than either before or behind, and that the first turning in of the hem should be therefore laid in rather deeper at the sides of the skirt. 6. That you should make your fastenings so good as that the dress may wear out before they give way. This is particularly important with regard to the pocket-holes and the opening beliind, which should be well secured by stitching, or a bar at the turn. It is very trying to a lady to find her skirt slit down behind the first time she slips her gown over her head, or her pocket- hole give way before she has put her hand into it half a dozen times. SLEEP and wakefulness are nearly in the same relation to each other as exercise and rest. Waking always presupposes a certain degi'ee of activity: all the natural functions—digestion, the preparation of the chyle and blood, assimila- tion, secretion, and excretion—are then more vigorously performed, and would soon exhaust their powers if sleep did not restore to them the beneficial and indispensable supplies. Sleep is therefore necessary to existence and health, and it is an improper and fruitless attempt to deprive ourselves, by an ill-directed activity, of the requisite portion of this refresh- ment ; for nature will maintain her rights in spite of our efforts to subvert them, and both body and mind will suffer without attaining any real advantage from an extravagant watchfuL ness. When the body is fatigued, and the senses, together with the voluntary motion of the muscles, have for some time been active, we stand in need of the alternation of rest which is obtained by sleep. During a sound sleep the senses and the voluntary muscular motions are not exercised; but the vital functions, such as respiration and the circulation of the blood, as ■well as most of the natural functions afore- mentioned, are regularly though more slowly performed. While we are asleep the motion of the heart and the blood-vessels, even the action of the brain and the nervous system, as likewise the peristaltic or vermicular motion of the sto- mach and the intestines, and the secretion of the fluids, are performed in a uniform and steady manner. Previously to sleep we perceive a languor of the senses, of the muscles which are subject to our will, and of those also which keep the body in an erect posture; the head inclines downwards, the upper eyelid and the lower jawbone likewise sink, the venous blood accumulates towards the heart, and compels ua to yawn, in order to facilitate the transition of the blood into the lungs by the deep breathing which takes place. Finally, the brain itself, as the organ of the mind, appears to be fatigued: hence our ideas become irregular, and there arises a slight imbecility of the understanding. That the motions of the heart are stronger during sleep, and that perspiration is more active, must be ascribed to the warmth of the bedclothes, by which the insensible perspiration softens and relaxes the skin. But a person who sleeps in his usual dress will feel chilly, and those animals that sleep long, as the hedge- hog and marmot, suffer an extraordinary degree of cold. The proximate cause of sleep appears to be an impeded motion of the nervous fluid in the brain. This motion is produced by a kind of collapse of the subtle insertions of the nerves, as well as by a mechanical compression of them. Hence we can explain how things so totally opposite are able to produce sleep, when they either exhaust or compress the tubes of the nerves. Of the former kind are every violent and fatiguing species of labour, a considerable loss of blood, perspiration increased by external heat, and everything that withdraws the blood from the head; for instance, warm bathing of the lower extremities, a stomach filled with much food, &c. Of the latter kind of incite- ments to sleep, namely, those that act by com- pression, is every mechanical pressure on the brain, whether it proceeds from water accumu- lated in its ventricles, from a local depression or fracture of the cranium, or from extravasated blood. In like manner the impeded regress of the blood from the brain, or the increased access of it to that organ, may effect such a pressure by distending the blood-vessels, as is the case in using narcotics, or wine and other spirituous liquors; and lastly, an intense de- gree of cold, as well as the state of an approach- ing apoplexy. Sleep is promoted by tranquillity of mind ; by the absence of every stimulus to the body; by silence and darkness around us; by a complete rest of the senses ; by gently and uniformly affecting one of the senses—for instance, by music or reading ; and lastly, by a gentle e.xternal motion of the whole body, as by rocking or sailing. On the other hand, every painful sensation, a great noise, a bright light, strong exertion of mental powers, and par- ticularly violent passions, are calculated to prevent sleep. Thus likewise sleep may be impeded by hot, spicy, and other stimulating drinks, which are said to occasion a more speedy secretion of the nervous fluid. To continue awake beyond a proper time consumes the vital spirits, disorganises the nerves, and causes so many uneasy sensations.[ 443 ] SLE SLE that a. coiisidei'fiLle while must elapse before we can fall asleep, namely, niitil their greatest violence has abated. The fluids of the body become acrid, the fat is consumed, and there arise at length an inclination to vertigo, violent headache, anxiety, actions without connection, without design, and without consistency. Those W'ho indulge themselves in much sleep are seldom liable to very strong passions. Persons, on the contrary, who sleep too little, frequently contract a violent and vindictive temper. Long- continued wakefulness is capable of changing the temper and mental disposition of the most mild and gentle ; of effecting a complete altera- tion of their features ; and at length of occasion- ing the most singular whims, the strangest deviations in the power of imagination, and in the end absolute insanity. Excess of sleep, however, is not less pre- judicial. The whole body sinks gradually into a complete state of inactivity, the solid parts become relaxed, the blood circulates slowly, and remains particularly long in the head; perspira- tion is disordered, the fluids are incrassated, the body increases in fat and thick humours, and is rendered incapable of being the medium of mental exertion, the memory is enfeebled, and the unhappy sleeper falls into a lethargic state, by whicii his sensibility is in a great measure destroyed, Pei'sons troubled with hypochondriasis and hysterics do themselves much injury by sleep- ing too long, especially in the morning, when the body is enfeebled by its continuance in a heated and unwholesome atmosphere, To such individuals it is also dangerous to remain for a considerable length of time in a state of inactivity. Indeed, excessive sleeping is detrimental to the muscular powers of every person—to the phlegmatic especially, whose fluids will thus soon become vitiated; and san- guine temperaments thence acquire a super- abundance of blood. The melancholy, whose blood circulates slowly, must suffer inconveni- ences in their secretions and excretions by this indulgence; and we generally find that long sleepers are afiBicted with costiveness and ob- structions. Early rising and timely going to bed, if persevered in, will render them more healthy and vigorous. If it can be advantageous to any description of pei'sons to sleep beyond the usual proportion of time it is to the choleric. Sleep immediately after supper is apt to occasion the nightmare or a stagnation of the blood, which by its pressure produces the sensation or idea of this trouble- some bedfellow. It is principally the nervous, the debilitated, and those of an impaired digestion vho are visited by such ten-ific dieams. The proper duration of sleep in youth and adults is usually settled at six or seven hours; in children and the aged, from eight to nine hoars. Yet the individual deviations in the constitution of the body and its various wants scarcely admit of any precise rules. The more bodily weakness we feel the more we may indulge in sleep, provided it be refreshing. If people in a state of health are perfectly cheerful in mind and body when they first awake, this is the most certain criterion that they have slept sufficiently. We should, however, be on our guard not to confound the natural wants of the body with a blamable custom; for most persons habitually sleep too much, or remain longer in bed than they ought. The origin of this destructive custom undoubtedly arises in infancy, when children are permitted to sleep on vei'y soft and warm beds, and encouraged to lie longer than is proper, from a mistaken notion that they cannot sleep too much. By such injudicious treatment they cannot attain a solid texture of the body, and a foundation is laid for many subsequent diseases. The rickets, so very common in many families in the present age, often originate in such indulgences, since the general relaxation of the body and the tendency to profuse perspiration are thus in an extra- ordinaiy degree promoted. At the age of puberty this eff"eminacy of the body and the inclination to sleep, together with the pleasant sensation which a soft and warm bed aff'ords in a waking state, are certainly the first and most frequent causes of a vice that might be effectually prevented by early rising. The custom of sleeping long, when continued to a state of manhood, becomes so habitual that it cannot be relinquished without great strug gles and a firm resolution. Those, then, who are not possessed of this firmness, instead of attaining a strong constitution, will acquire a phlegmatic, relaxed, and cold temperament, which will render them irresolute and incapable of energetic efforts, and from which the mind by degrees becomes as indifferent towards every object as the body is unfit for muscular exer- tion. Hence to listen to the voice of nature in this respect will contribute more to our hap- piness than to shorten our repose by many of the usual but violent means of excitement, when the body is in want of rest. To children at a very early period of life no limits of sleep can be prescribed, but after the sixth or seventh year of their age some regulations become necessary to habituate them to a certain regularity. The just proportion of sleep can be ascertained only by their more or less lively temperament, by their employments, gxercise, and amusements through the day, andSLE r ui ] SLE accoramg to the state of their health. Tn pur- suing this measure, however, we must not attempt to waken children from their sleep in a violent or terrifying manner, which is frequently done, and is extremely pernicious. In great disquietude of mind, and after violent passion, sleep is the more necessary, as these agitate and exhaust the frame more than the most fatiguing bodily labour. Hence many persons never sleep so soundly as when they are afflicted with grief and sorrow. A fretful and peevish temper, as well as a fit of the hypochondriasis, cannot be more effectually relieved than by a short sleep. Frequently, after a sleep of a few minutes only, we awake refreshed, we can reflect on our difficulties with a calm mind, and again reconcile ourselves to the troubles of life. In such situations, though we should not be able to sleep, even a quiet posture of the body, with the eyes closed, is of some advantage. There is scarcely any misfortune so great that it cannot be relieved or alleviated by sleep, as, on the contrary, we should inevitably sink under the pressure of affliction if this beneficent balm did not support us. Yet frequently, too, uneasiness of mind, by its continual stimulus on the sensorium, entirely prevents sleep hence the unquiet repose, and even whole sleepless nights, of those whose heads are filled with cares or important schemes. A.s mental labours exhaust our strength more than those of the body, literary men who employ themselves in long and profound reflections require more sleep than others. Though some persons whose body and mind are equally indolent have a greater inclination to sleep than the lively and laborious, yet it is not so beneficial to them, since they are destitute of the essential requisites to health, namely, activity and vigour. The most healthy, and those who lead the most regular lives, frequently have an uneasy and very short sleep; they also require less rest at one time than another. He who digests easily stands less in need of sleep than others. After taking aliment difficult of digestion na- ture herself invites to the enjoyment of rest, and to sleep in proportion to the time which is required for the concoction and assimilation of food. Excessive evacuations of whatever kind, as well as intoxication by strong liquors, render additional sleep necessary. In winter and sum- mer we require somewhat more time for sleep than in spring and autumn, because the vital spirits are less exhausted in the latter seasons, and the mass of the blood circulates more uniformly than in the cold of winter or heat of summer, when it is either too much retarded or accelerated. It is very improper to sit up too late in the long winter evenings, whether at the desk or the bottle, either of which is then more hurtful than in summer, because the want of sleep is greater. Those who wish to spend the winter in good health and useful labour should retire to bed at eight o'clock in the evening, and rise at three or four o'clock in the morning. A winter morn- ing, indeed, is not very charming, but the evening is naturally still less so; and there is no doubt that we can perform every kind of work with more alacrity and success in the early part of the day than at night, and that our eyes would likewise be benefited by this regulation, after sleep has invigorated them to undertake any task in the morning; but they are fatigued at night from the exertions of a whole day. Every stimulus may interrupt sleep, or at least render it uneasy, and often occasion dreams, the cause cf which is generally owing to the irritation of the stomach or intestinal canal. Dreams are, as it were, a middle state between sleeping and waking, and generally indicate some defect in the body, unless they give representations which originate in the occurrences of the preceding day. A sleep after dinner ought never to exceed one hour, and it is also much better sitting than lying horizontally ; for in the latter case we are more subject to fluctuations of the blood towards the head, and consequently to headache. Much depends upon the manner of lying in bed, and on the posture to which we accustom ourselves. To lie on the back, with the arms over the head, prevents the circulation of the blood to the upper extremities, and is not unfrequently productive of serious consequences. It is equally pernicious to lie in a crooked pos- ture, or with the breast very low and bent inwards, by which the intestines are compressed and obstructed in their motions, and the blood cannot easily circulate downwards, whence may arise giddiness and even apoplexy. Lying on the back is equally improper, and productive of frightful dreams, together with many other inconveniences. The reverse posture is like- wise noxious, as the stomach is thus violently oppressed, the free respiration much impeded, and the whole circulation of the fluids in the chest and abdomen prevented, to the great injury of health. The most proper posture, then, is on one side, with the body straight, the limbs slightly bent (not stretched, because they ought to rest), so that the body may lie somewhat higher than the legs. When the head is laid high a short sleep is more refreshing than a longer one, when it is reclined too low. To healthy people it is a matter of no consequence on which side they lie, and they may safely in this respect follow theirSLE SLO [ 4^5 ] own choice. Some dietetical observers allege that it is better to lie in the evening on the right, and in the morning on the left side, that in the evening the aliment may more readily leave the stomach, and that afterwards this organ may be better warmed by the liver. SLEEPLESSNESS may often be removed by putting the feet into hot water just before getting into bed, or, if that fails, by pressing firmly with the finger upon the carotid artery. SLEEVE. In "The Dress-Maker," pre- viously quoted, are the following directions :— Sleeves are commonly cut neither quite the straight way of the material, nor on the full cross, but between the two. To prevent the join stretching, and to give it firmness, it is usually joined with a cording. When you stitch up your sleeve you must be careful to keep all the edges together of the silk, the lining, and the cording. Then you will have to make the cuff or wrist- band. It will have a lining of leno, or founda- tion muslin—less stiff than buckram, but stiff enough to give it firmness. You will tack the silk and muslin together, and put on a cording all round, and then it will be ready to set on the sleeve. In the case of a wristband you turn down the silk face of the wristband upon the silk face of the sleeve, and stitch it on so that the cording remains visible between the two, when the wristband is turned up into its place. The lining of the wristband is then felled down upon the wrong side of the sleeve. In the case of a pointed cuff you must fasten down the raw edge of the cording by herring- boning it upon the lining of the cuff, as theie is no way of fastening it upon the sleeve. The point of the cuff is then to be tacked to tlie sleeve, so that no stitches may be seen on the right side. Plaiting is merely laying your material in folds in an even range, as is done at present with the skirts of gowns at the waistband. You have to fold the top of your sleeve into as many small plaits as will bring it to the size of the arm hole it is to fit into, the under part, for at least two inches on each side of the join, being left to be set in plain without any plaits. You will pin each plait as you lay it, taking care to make all of the same depth, and that they lie quite even. Then you will tack them down, take out the pins, and go on to pin down your plaits again below, where they will be confined by a strap or by stitching ; tlien, when this is tacked, perhaps you may have to lay a third row. This is work which requires much neat- ness, since one wry plait spoils the look of the whole. Gauging is easier than plaiting. Gauging means gathering, which is to be fastened by loop- stitch on the outside, or by a strap. If the gathers are taken up evenly on the needle they arrange themselves when the gathering thread is drawn up, and the material gently pulled above and below, so as to sort the gathers. The gathering thread must, of course, be securely fastened, and then the gathers are fixed in their places by loop-stitch, or by a strap laid on. SLOE. The sloe tree, or blackthorn [Prnnus spinosa), is more useful than is usually estimated. The wood is hard and tough, on which account it is usefully converted into walking-sticks, teeth for rakes, and turnery ware. Dr. Withering observes that, from the effects which follow the punctures made by the thorns of this tree, he has reason to believe they contain some poisonous matter, especially if such wounds be inflicted in autumn. The young and tender leaves, when dried, afford, in his opinion, the best substitute for the foreign teas. If bruised and infused in currant or raisin wine, sloes impart a beautiful red colour, and a pleasant, rough, subacid taste, resembling that of port wine—a fact too well known -to the dealers in that favourite and expensive liquor. Characters impressed on linen or woollen cloth with the juice of the fruit are said to be permanent. On adding green vitriol to this liquid the shade is not changed ; but if it be employed for writing on paper or dyeing linen, and afterwards exposed to the air, an indelible black colour will be the result, and which is superior to that obtained from the best galls. The dried berries of the blackthorn dye linen of a red hue, which, on repeated washmg, changes to a durable light Hue. The bark boiled in lye also yields a red tinge ; and, in order to facilitate the decortication of tiiis shrub, it ouglit to be effected in the spring. A decoction of the root, on adding a solution of bismuth, communicates a chmamon shade to wool. The blackish bark is further useful for preserving cheese from corruption—a fact at- tested by Bechstein. The same rind, together with the unripe berries, may be advantageously used in tanning. In a medicinal respect a handful of the flowers of the sloe tree, either infused in water or boiled in milk, and strained, affords a draught which operates as a safe and gentle pm-gative. According to Dr. Withering, the bark, when reduced to powder, and administered in doses of 2 drachms each, has cured some species of the ague. An inspissated extract of the same sub- stance forms an excellent astringent, which is frequently employed on the continent as a sub- stitute for the more expensive, but less efficacious Indian drugs of this description ; and it is highly probable that such preparation might, in many cases, be employed with safety instead of theSNA [ 446 1 sir A Peruvian bark, wliicli is seldom obtained in a genuine state from the shops. In some parts of England the ripe fruit of the sloe is put into bottles, and, when these will hold no more of the fruit, some sugar is dis- solved in gin, and this then poured into the bottles until quite full. After standing a month or more the liquor differs little from that of cherries in brandy. SMALL POX. See Pox, Small. SMELLING SALTS. See Ammonia, Car- bonate OF. SMELLS, BAD. See CiiLoniDE of Lime and Fumigation. SMELTS : To Choose. This fish inhabits the seas of the northern parts of Europe, and varies very much in size; but the largest has never been known to exceed i lb. It is of a veiy beautiful form and colour, the head is clear, and the skin is so pellucid that with a microscope the circulation of the blood may be distinctly perceived. "When fresh smelts are of a very fine silvery hue, and have a remarkable scent resembling that of a cucumber just pared. They are in season from January to June, and again from September to December. SMELTS : To Fby. Having washed them and cleared away the gills, dry them in a cloth; then lightly flour them, but shake it off again , rub over the fish with a feather some egg beaten up veiy finely, and then strew on crumbs of bread ; fry the smelts in lard over a clear fire, and put them in when the fat boils. When of a fine brown colour take them out and drain them. Garnish with fried parsley and lemon. SMELTS, ATTELETS OF. Take the fillets from six smelts, take off the skin, cut each into four pieces, and trim them ; melt some butter, add to it the yolks of two eggs, salt, and pepper; beat them up well, dip each fillet into this, and roll them ; run a skewer through them so as to prevent them from unrolling, put four on each skewer, and dip them again into the butter. Have ready some bread crumbs, roll the fillets in them very lightly, but so as to cover them completely, and broil them over a clear fire. Take care that all four sides are well coloured. SMELTS, GRATIN OF. Prepare your fish as for frying, spread some butter over the bottom of a deep silver dish, on which shred parsley, scallions, and sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; place the smelts on this, cover them a little with bread crumbs, moisten with melted butter and white wine, and set them on a stove or in an oven. Brown the top, and serve. SMELTS, PICKLED. Wash clean and gut a quarter of a peck of smelts; take Joz. of pepper and as much nutmeg, I oz. of mace, ^ oz of saltpetre, and ^ lb. of common salt; pound all finely, and place the fish in rows in a jar • between every layer of smelts strew the seasoning, with the addition of four or five bay leaves ; boil some red wine, and pour a sufficient quantity on the fish to cover them ; lay a plate upon them, and when cold stop them very closely. They make a pleasant article for supper. SMELTS, POTTED. Gut and sprinkle them with salt, pounded mace, and pepper ; put them into a pan covered with butter, and bake them. When nearly cold lay them on a cloth, pack them in pots, take the butter that they were baked witla, and clarify it with more for a cover- ing to them. SMELTS IN SAVOURY JELLY. Lay twelve clean smelts at the bottom of a stewpan, with half consomme and half Madeira, a little salt, a young onion, and two or three mush- rooms , let them stew gently till well done, then carefully take them out with a skimmer, and lay them on a plate to cool; pass tlie liquor through a double silk sieve to some good consomme, which must be clarified the same'as for aspic jelly. The jelly being made, have a large plain mould ready in ice, nearly half fill it with jelly, and as soon as it is set place the smelts in it, with the heads downwards, and just sufficient jelly to cover them. When these are set fill up the mould, and when wanted dip it in warm water and turn it out on the dish. This makes a good supper dish. SMOKE. See Chimney. SNAIL BROTH. Wash the snails extremely well, and throw them into very hot water ; take them out of the shells, and pass them through several waters, working them well with the hand; slice them, pound the shells, and put all into a saucepan, with as much water as will cover them; boil, skim, and let them simmer for several hours; add a little salt, sugar, and a very small quantity of mace, to correct their mawkish taste. A tea-cupful may be taken four times a day with or without conserve of roses. Should the patient have any repugnance to this form, let it be put in some weak veal broth. This is far preferable to slater wine, to which mothers have often recourse ; but if they have any pre- dilection for slaters, which are excellent, let them be administered in broth. The wine often more than counteracts the good effects of these valuable insects. SNAIL FRICASSEE. Clean and prepare the snails as for broth; cut them in slices, and reduce the smaller snails with the parings in a mortar; simmer them with sweet herbs softly and long, till they are quite tender; add wine, truffle powder, and catsup; thicken with flourSNA SN U r 417 ] and butter, or cream and egg, and serve very hot. It is used in France at breakfast. SNAIL POWDER. Clean the snails, throw them into the oven with their shells, and keep drying them till the shells reduce to powder; cut the snails into slices, and let them dry till they become crisp; beat them to powder, and add it to the shells. The dose is as much as will lie upon a shilling, mixed in clarified honey. SNIPE: To Cakve. Raise the legs and wings as in a fowl, but the head must be opened for the brain. SNIPE: To Teuss. This bird, being very tender, must be picked with great care, particularly if they are not quite fresh. When picked clean cut off the pinions at the first joint, and press the breast-bone till it is flat; turn up the legs close to the thighs, and fasten them together at the joints; bring the thighs close to the pinions, and put a skewer through the thighs, body, and opposite pinion; skin the head, turn it, and having taken out the eyes, put it on the point of the skewer with the bill close to the breast. Woodcocks, snipes, and plovers are all trussed alike, but must not be drawn. SNIPE PIE. Take three snipes, bone them, and stuff them with forcemeat, adding the trails and truffles pounded to it; place the birds in a deep dish, with a little forcemeat all round; cover with puff paste, egg and ornament it, and then place it in the oven. When three parts baked take off the lid, and pour in some good cullis, a glass and a half of Madeira wine, and season with Cayenne and lemon juice according to taste; put on the cover, and finish baking. SNIPES are generally dressed in the same manner as woodcocks. SNIPES WITH TRUFFLES. Truss eight snipes with their beaks run through them, and roast them with bread under. Have a few fine truffles well stewed in a good brown sauce, and when the snipes are roasted lay them on a toast in the dish, putting one or two truffles into each snipe, and pour the remainder of the sauce over them. SNOW and ice may be most speedily re- moved from pathways and pavement by sprinkling salt upon them. SNOW BALLS. Pare a quantity of apples, take out the cores, and in the place of them put some finely shred lemon-peel, about half a clove, or a little cinnamon or mace, and sugar ; then, having washed some rice, soak it in milk, lay as much of it on thin cloths as there are apples, which must be rolled up in them, and each tied separately like dumplings; set them over the fire in a pot of cold water, and boil them a little more than an hour. Turn them gently in the dish to prevent breaking. They may be served with sweet sauce, made of sugar and butter, grated nutmeg, beaten cinnamon, and a glass of white wine, or with melted butter and sugar only. SNOW, A DISH OF. Put twelve apples over the fire in cold water till soft, then dry them on a sieve, skin them, and put the pulp into a basin; beat up the whites of twelve eggs to a froth, and sift over it ^ lb. of double-refined sugar; beat the pulp of the fruit to a froth also, after which beat up the whole till it looks like snow; put it on a dish, and stick a sprig of myrtle in the middle. This is merely an ornament. SNOW FRITTERS. Take of light, new- fallen snow three table-spoonsful for every egg you would otherwise use; that is, if you wish the quantity of batter three eggs would make in the usual way, take nine table-spoonsful of snow, and stir in a quart of rich milk that has been setting in a very cold place, so that it will not melt the snow and destroy its lightness ; put in a tea-spoonful of salt, and enough flour to make it a stiff batter ; have ready a frying-pan with boiling lard, drop a spoonful as with other fritters, and set the remainder in a cold place till the first are done. Eat them with wine sauce, or sugar, butter, and cream, or anything you fancy. SNUFF. We are indebted to Mr. Cooley's excellent " Cyclopaedia of Receipts" for the following notes :— While powdering the tobacco should be fre- quently sifted, that it may not be reduced to too line a powder; and it should be moistened with rose or orange-flower water, or eau d'an/je, which are the only waters fit for the superior kinds of snuff. This moistening is usually repeated several times. Tonka beans are put into snuff- boxes to scent the snuff; but the concentrated essence of tonka beans is now mostly used. The leaves of Orchis fusca, and those of several other species of orchids that have the scent of the tonka bean, are also used to scent snuff. French snuff is scented with the root of Calamus aromalicus. During the grinding of tobacco it is but too frequently mixed with dark-coloured rotten wood, various English leaves, colouring, and other matter, which substances are added by the fraudulent manufactui-er to reduce the cost. It is a general practice with many dealers to add ammonia to their snuffs to increase their pungency. We have seen 1 cwt. of powdered sal ammoniac sent at one time to a certain London tobacconist. Powdered glass and helle- bore are also frequently added for a like pur- pose. The moist kinds of snuff are generally drugged with pearlash, for the triple purpose of keening them moist and increasina their pun-SO A SNU US ] gency and colour. The dry snuffs, especially Welsk, are commonly adulterated with quick- lime, the particles of which may often be dis- tinguished by the naked eye. This addition causes its biting and desiccating effect on the pituitary membrane. Scotch, Irish, Welsh, and ■ Spanish snuff, Lundiifoot, &c., are examples of the DRY SNOFFS, AmOUg MOIST SNUFFS, Or RAPPEES, hroivn, black, Cuba, carotte, &c., may be men- tioned. Hardham's mixture. No. 37, is a mixed rappee ; and Prince's mixture, princeza, &c., are scented rappees. The Scotch, Irish, and, in fact, most of the ordinary snuffs of the shops, are pi'epared from the midribs and waste pieces, but the Strashurgh, French, Russian, and Ma- couba snuffs from the soft parts of the leaves. The immense variety of snuffs kept in the shops depend for their distinguishing charac- teristics on the length of the fermentation, the fineness of the powder, the height to which they are dried, and the addition of odorous Biibstances. Among some of the most esteemed IVeuch snuffs are the following :— Tabac de Cedrat, Bergamotte, and Neroli fire made by adding the essences to the snuff. Tabac Parfumee aux Fledrs, by putting orange flowers, jasmines, tuberoses, musk roses, or common roses, to the snuff in a close chest or jar, sifting them out after twenty-four hours, and repeating the infusion with fresh flowers as necessary. Another way is to lay paper pricked all over with a large pin between the flowers and the snuff. Tabac Musque. Any scented snuff, 1 lb. ; musk (ground to a powder with white sugar, and moistened with ammonia water), 20 grains. Mix. Tabac Ambre. Tabac aux fleurs, 1 lb.; am- bergris (powdered as last), 24 grains. Tabac en Odeur de Malthe. Tabac de neroli, lib.; ambergris, 20 grains; civet, 10 grains ; sugar, sufficient quantity. Tabac a la Pointe d'Espagne. 'Snuff aux fleurs, 1 lb.; musk, 20 grains ; civet, 6 grains ; Bugar, sufficient quantity. Tabac en Odeur de Rome. Snuff aux fleurs, 1 lb.; ambergris, 20 grains; musk, 6 grains; civet, 5 grains; sugar, sufficient quantity. Tabac de Pongibou. Yellow snuff scented with orange flowers, 1 lb.; civet, 12 grains; sugar, sufficient quantity; essence of orange flowers, 2 to 4 drachms. Other essences may be used, the snuff having been previously scented with the same flowers. Tabac fin FA90N d'Espagne. Red snuff perfumed with flowers. Macouba Snuff is imitated by moistening the tobacco with a mixture of treacle and water, and allowing it to ferment well. Spanish Snuff Unsifted Havannah snuff, ground and reduced by adding ground Spanish nut-shells, sprinkling the mixture with treacle water, and allowing it to sweat for some days before packing. Most of the imitations of foreign snuff require to be well packed to give them a good appearance. Yellow Snuff. Yellow ochre the size of an egg, add chalk to lower the colour, and grind with 4 drachms of oil of almonds till fine; then add water by degrees, and two spoonsful of mucilage of tragacanth till you have about a quart; mix this with a suEScient quantity of purified snuff, and dry it; then grind some gum tragacanth with some scented water, and moisten your snuff with it, and when dry with a very fine sieve sift out the colour that does not adhere to the snuff. Red Snuff. As last, but use ochre. Eye Snuff. Subsulphate of mercury, \ drachm; dry Scotch snuff or Lundyfoot, 1 oz.; triturate well together. A pinch of this occasionally in inflammation of the eyes, dim- ness of sight, headache, &c. SNUFF, CEPHALIC. See Asarabacca Snuff. SOAP. Potash and soda cannot be ad- vantageously employed in making soap till they are deprived of the carbonic acid and the earthy matters with winch, as they are commonly obtained in commerce, they are combined. The process by which this is effected is as follows :— Into a vessel or cistern about eight feet square, and one foot deep, is introduced quicklime in the proportion of one-fifth of the weight of oil in- tended to be converted into soap ; water is slightly sprinkled over the lime, when it be- comes hot, and falls into powder, after which the soda or barilla, previously pounded, must be carefully mixed with it by means of a shovel. In order to favour the operation a little water is occasionally added. As soon as the mixture is accomplished it is transferred into tubs. In small establishments the vessels are made of white wood, but in those which are on a larger scale they are composed of stone lined witli bricks, and sunk into mortar made of pozzuolana or similar earths. These cisterns are usually about five feet by four, and one and a half in depth. They are perforated at the lower pait of the side next the work-house with two holes, which are closed by stop-cocks or pegs of wood. Under each of these vessels are reservoirs con- structed with the same care, and intended for the reception and preservation of the lyes. "When the lime and soda are transferred to the tub, or to the cisterns, a quantity of water is poured on the mixture, sufficient to cover it to the height of about a foot and a half. After leaving the water in this state for several hours it is drawn off into one of the reservoirs. Thisso A [ d49 ] SOA 8 G VOL. II. is called the first lye. Water is again put upon the mixture, to remain the same time, and afterwards to be drawn off as before. This is termed the second lye. The operation is repeated as long as lye of any power comes from the mixture. The lye is commonly used no stronger than to be able to sustain a new-laid egg. The oil or tallow is first boiled with a part of the lye, which may be diluted with water, till the whole forms a soapy compound. The stronger lye is then to be added, and kept slowly boiling, while a person assists the union by agitation. When it is sufficiently boiled a separation will appear to be taking place, tlie soap being at top and the watery fluid below: to effect this separation completely a quantity of common salt is added. The materials are usually boiled three or four hours, when the fire is withdrawn. The soap now floats at the top of the liquor, and the lye beneath, being of no further use, is drawn off. It is then melted with another lye, and, when a little boiled, is cast into wooden frames. When it is perfectly cold the cakes are taken out, and cut into convenient bars. The tallow for making soap is reckoned very good if 13cwt. of it yields, with alkali, a ton weight of soap. Black Soap, or black soft soap, is made from fish oil and a lye of potash, made in a similar manner as the lye of soda above. A cheap soap is sometimes made by using woollen rags, &c., and even the horns of animals, instead of oil. These substances are soluble in caustic lye, and by proper boiling form soap ; but the smell is commonly very disagreeable. Soap is easily and completely dissolved in water ; but in hard water it curdles, or is only imperfectly dissolved. A solution of soap in spirit of wine is sometimes used as a test to discover whether the water of any spiing be hard or soft. If soft the solution will unite with it; but if hard the soap will separate in flakes. Brown Soap is formed by adding 1 lb. of resin to every 2 lbs. of fat used in its manufacture. Castile Soap is sometimes made in this country, and is, we believe, nothing more than the common white soap, made eitlier with tallow and barilla, or olive oil and barilla; and, after it is poured out into the moulds, a small quantity of a solution in water of sulphate of iron is mixed with it, to give it the marbled appear- ance which it always more or less possesses. But the best Castile soap which is imported into this country is brought from Marseilles, although it is also brought from Spain. The foreign article is considered the best for medi- cinal use. Soap Is generally regarded as pur- gative and lithoMtriptlc. Its powers, however, iu both these intentions, are very limited. It is a very useful vehicle for many active medi- cines in the shape of pills, as by its means they soon dissolve in the stomach. Castile soap is, we believe, also a useful tonic, chiefly by the quantity of iron which it contains. It may be also given to counteract the effects of metallic and other poisons ; but in such cases it would be better to use the common white or yellow soap than Castile soap. It should be given dissolved in water, a tea-cupful of which may be drunk at short intervals till good effects are produced. The dose of soap internally is from 5 grains to ^ drachm, made into pills. Soap is employed externally in frictions to sprains and bruises: it has also been recom- mended to be rubbed in a strong lather on the swelled bellies of children labouring under mesenteric fever. Soap enters into several medicinal compositions. See Linimekt and Opodeldoc. Mottled Soap obtains its speckled appear- ance either by dispersing the lye through the soap towards the end of the operation, or by adding sulphate of iron, oxide of manganese, or indigo. Soap Balls for washing the hands are made of various colours by simply cutting white soap into small pieces, rolling them in vermilion, blue, or other colour, and squeezing them together into balls. They may be, of course, scented with whatever we may wish : orris-root powder, &c., may also be added at pleasure. Soft Soaps are prepared with potash and rape oil or suet. The mode of making them differs from that used in the preparation of hard soaps in this—that, in place of extinguishing the fire and drawing off the liquid, the fire is kept up till the soap has acquired the requisite con- sistence, after which it is run into casks, and so kept for sale. Although the green colour of this soap is only accessory, manufacturers some- times colour their soft soaps with indigo, to humour tlije prejudices of the purchasers. Soft soaps for the toilet are made with olive, nut, or palm oil, or with hogs Lu'd, suet, or butter; but they ought to be as much as jiossible freed of uncombined alkali. Their taste ought not to be caustic. The economy of soap is too little studied. There is no occasion to use soap in scouring boards whore wood ashes can be had: these, with fullers' earth, and even without it, are quite sufficient, and will make them look equally well, if they are propei'ly wcjUed, scoured the right way of the grain, well rin.'^ed, and dried. There is less occasion still to leave the soap in the water, for whatever purpose it is used. It should not be so left, even while you are washing your hands; for if you wash them frequently it will make it quite soft in tlio[ 450 ] SOL SOD course of the day: much less should it be left in the hot suds while washing. White Soap is made with olive oil and soda. Windsor Soap is the common white soap, scented with oil of caraway seeds or other scent. Yellow Soap is composed of tallow and yellow resin, in the proportion of ten parts of tallow and three and a half of resin : these, if good, will make, with the addition of the alkali, twenty of soap. Some of the fish oils are also, we believe, occasionally used in the manufacture of the inferior soaps. SODA. Few articles are of greater import- ance to the arts, manufactures, and domestic economy than soda. It is indispensably necessary for making hard soap, and also forms an excellent substitute for this article, as 4 ozs. of the former and 6 ozs. of the latter are fully equal to 16 ozs., or 1 lb. of soap, for cleansing ] 4 lbs. of cloth by hand, while it softens the hardest water. Thus a saving will arise in the expense of from one-third to one-half, accordingly as that operation is performed by the hand or by machines. The superior effects of soda are fully evinced in the cleansing of fleecy hosiery, flannels, or worsted stockings, which, when managed with warm water, soap, and pot- ash, acquire an unpleasant odour, and are apt to shrink in consequence of the rubbing, parti- cularly if they be immersed in cold water; whereas by using the fossil alkali these incon- veniences are said to be completely avoided, and neither the quality of the goods will be impaired, nor the hands of women, when the soda is judiciously employed, be hijured in the same manner as generally happens by the common lye. Farther, as frequent bathing or washing of the body greatly conduces to health, it has been recommended to dissolve a small portion of soda iu the water thus employed, or at least to pass a towel wetted with a solution of soda and soap over the surface ; for such practice opens the pores, and removes the disagreeable odour arising from profuse perspiration. A similar application will be productive of equal advantage to horses that are employed for racing, post-chaises, or other purposes where great exertions are required. If a weak solution of soda be poured into foul bottles or casks in which wine has been kept for a considerable time, it will completely dissolve the tartarous crust that is formed on their inner surface. Boot tops, saddles, or bridles may with such liquid be effectually cleansed, while the original colour of the leather is preserved. This alkali may likewise be employed for sweetening kitchen utensils, and particularly for removing grease or acids from copper vessels, because these concretions, when suffered to re- main, form a strong poison, and may be pro- ductive of deleterious effects. In a similar manner it may be used for tin and iron vessels, to prevent them from becoming rusty. Lastly, as the utensils of the dairy are apt to acquire an acid, disagreeable smell during the summer, and particularly after a thunder-storm, though every attention be bestowed on them, such fetor may be completely removed by a small portion of soda, which will render the milk vessels per- fectly sweet, while it neutralises and dispels tlie acid ferment imbibed by the wood, and which might otherwise taint the milk. The ciystals of soda are not less useful in a medicinal point of view. Thus a solution of this salt is an excellent gargle for cleansing the throat, mouth, and gums, both in a sound and in a diseased or ulcerated state, while it whitens the teeth, and dissolves all incrustations that may be formed on their surface, without injuring their enamel; and if a small quantity of this liquid be occasionally swallowed, after washing the fauces, it is said effectually to remove a fetid breath. Soda is, in many instances, preferable to magnesia for correcting acidity in the stomach ; nay, it is even asserted that it prevents the gout, gravel, stone, and similar disorders. Lastly, if the fossil alkali be mixed with cream of tartar in the proportion of four- teen parts of the former to twelve of the latter, it furnishes one of the mildest laxatives, namely, the Eochelle salt. SODA WATER That sold in bottles, and prepared by machines, is little else than water impregnated with carbonic acid. An Effer- vescing Draught is a solution of Rochelle salt (tartrate of soda) impregnated with carbonic acid. SOLDERS are made so as to endui'e various degrees of heat. Bismuth 8 ozs., lead 4 ozs., tin 4 ozs., melted together and thoroughly mixed, form a solder ^Yhich melts in boiling water (213°). Fine Solder is made of lead, 1 oz.; tin, 2 ozs. It melts at 350". Glaziers' Solder is made of lead, 3 ozs., and tin, ] oz. It melts at 500°. SOLE PIE. Boil 2 lbs. of eels till quite tender, then pick the flesh from the bones, and put the latter into the liquor the eels were boiled in, with a blade of mace and some salt; let them boil till the liquor is reduced to a quarter of a pint, and then strain it. Cut the flesh of the eel very finely, and mix it with a little lemon-peel cut small, a little salt, pepper, a few bread crumbs, parsley chopped finely, and an anchovy minced; mix the whole with ^ lb. of butter, and then lay this forcemeat in a pie dish. Cut the meat from a very fine pair of[ 451 ] SOL SOR soles, and put it into the dish upon the force- meat ; pour in the liquor the eels were boiled in, put on the cover, and set it in the oven to bake of a nice brown. SOLES : To Carve. They are sent to table either fried or boiled ; but in either case they are to be cut right through the middle, bone and all, and a piece about a third or fourth part of the fish given to each guest; but this dis- tribution must be regulated by the size and other circumstances. Plaice and other fish may be divided in the same manner. SOLES : To Choose. The sole is one of the most delicate of our British fishes, on which account it has with many obtained the name of the " queen of the sea." The middling-sized fish are the best. By an old law of the Cinque Ports, which is not now acted upon, none were to be taken from the 1st of November to the 15th of March, which is a proof in what estima- tion this fish was held by our ancestors. When good soles are thick, and the belly of a cream colour ; but if the flesh be flabby, and there is a bluish tinge on the surface, the fish are of no value. They are in greatest perfection about midsummer. SOLES, BOILED. Be careful that the soles are thoroughly cleaned; then rub them over with lemon juice, set them on the fire in cold spring water with plenty of salt, and when they begin to boil put them aside to simmer very gently till done. Serve with anchovy sauce in a boat. You may, if you please, garnish your fish with parsley. SOLES, FRICASSEED. Fry them of a nice brown, drain them, take off' all the meat from a small sole, chop it fine, and mix it with a little grated bread, some lemon-peel, parsley chopped fine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, the yolk of an egg, and a little butter ; make this into little balls, and fry them. Put a little red wine in some good gravy, thicken with a little flour, boil it up, and add Cayenne and lemon juice; lay in the fish and balls, and simmer them a few minutes. Garnish with lemon. SOLES, FRIED. Take off the skin, rub the fish with the yolk of an egg, and then strew upon them some bread crumbs. Fry them in lard over a brisk fire till they are brown. Serva them up with plain butter, and garnish with green pickles. SOLES WITH MUSHROOMS. Put a quart of milk into a stewpan or fish kettle, with the same quantity of water, a bit of butter, salt, and lemon juice; then put in the soles, set the stewpan over a moderate fire, and let them simmer very gently till done; then take them up, place them on a cloth or napkin to imbibe all the liquor from them, lay them on a dish, and pour over them a good mushroom sauce. SOLES, STUFFED. Makeafarce of whiting or perch minced very small, mixed with butter, sweet herbs, and morels, kneaded together by yolks of eggs, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Having skinned and cleaned your soles, stuff them with this farce, rub them with butter, bread, and bake them. They may, if preferred, be dressed in equal quantities of stock and white wine. SOLOMON S BALM OF GILEAD. Mix together one pint of cardamoms, made with brandy instead of spirit of wine, and 1 oz. by measure of tincture of cantharides. SORES AND ULCERS. When an ulcer is in a perfectly healing state the appearances which it exhibits are as follow :—The fleshy granulations are of a florid colour ; the blood- vessels possess a considerable quantity of arterial blood, and the freedom of circulation produces this florid appearance. The granulations are equal on the surface of the sore, rising a little above the edges ; for it is necessary, in order that a sore should heal kindly, that the surface of the ulcer should be a little more elevated than the surrounding edges. The surface of the sore secretes matter which has a milky appear- ance, or rather the appearance of cream. The edge is whitish in colour, and adapts itself to the surface. In this manner the granulations springing from the surrounding skin are very nicely adapted to the circumference of the sore, so that the granulations on the edge unite with those on the surface. When, therefore, you see the surface of an ulcer red, the granulations equal, the surface I'ising a little above the edge, the discharge of matter healthy, and the edge of the sore nicely adapted to the surface, you will say that this ulcer is in a healing state. In order to produce this state of the sore the best practice which you can generally pursue is to apply poultices and plasters. When you open an abscess, or when a wound is produced which cannot be healed by the adhesive pi'ocess, the best application is a poultice for the purpose of exciting the granulations. This poultice must not be too warm , it should be gently stimu- lating, so as not to repress the growth of granu- lations, but to form a soft bed to which they may spring. The effect of the poultice is, by its warmth and moisture, to encourage such a degree of action as may promote the rising of the granulations. When the granulations have risen to the edge of the sore our practice alters, and it becomes our object to adapt the granulations of the edge to those of the surface. For this purpose adhesive plaster or unctuous substances are employed, with a view of pressing down the granulations of the edge of the sore on those of the surface, so as to make them unite. TheseS 0 E, son [ 452 ] are the principles of treatment in the cure of ulcers. We first encourage the growth of granu- lations by the application of the gentle stimulus of poultices, and, when the granulations have risen to the edge of the surrounding skin, we press down the granulations of the edge on those of the surface, either by the application of adhesive plaster or of unctuous substances. The more unctuous such substances are the better ; for the vessels will have a greater facility iu shooting towards the centi'e, and the granulations embedded in this unctuous matter will more readily extend along the surface of the sore. Such are the principles of treatment applicable to ulcers in the healing state. We will proceed to consider the impediments to the healing process which frequently occur, and which render a different mode of treatment necessary. The first circumstance which renders the cure of ulcers difficult is the too prominent state of the granulations, producing what is vulgarly called 2»'oud flesh. In this state the granula- tions, rising considei'ably above the edge of the surrounding skin, are necessarily prevented from uniting with those of the surface. In order to prevent the continuance of this state of the sore, the common treatment is to apply dry lint to the centre of the sore, and some unctuous substance to the edges. The lint, by its pres- sure, prevents the growth of granulations in the centre, while the unctuous substance allows the granulations on the edge to proceed and in- osculate with those on the surface of the sore. The lint should not be applied to the edge of the sore, for, if it is, the granulations will be pre- vented from proceeding towards the centre of the sore. The caustics called nitrate of silver and sulphate of copper are employed for the purpose of destroying luxuriant granulations near the edges of the sore. Here our practice is just reversed. Lint is applied to the centre of the sore for the purpose of keeping down the granu- lations on the surface, whereas the caustic is applied for the purpose of keeping down the granulations which are nearest the edge of the sore. In this way we promote the healing of the sore, forming a little circle by the caustic from day to day until we arrive at the centre. Ad- hesive plaster is used with the same view of keeping down the granulations. The common adhesive plaster is, however, too stimulating for this purpose. A pla&ter composed of equal parts of the compound galbanum plaster and the plaster of soap is a much better application to promote the healing of ulcers than the common adhesive plaster. This is a point deserving attention, because, if the application is of so •Btimulating a nature as to excite inflammation and excoriate the skin, we are often under the necessity of leaving off the adhesive plaster. It sometimes happens that the action is so great as to oblige us to apply a sheet of lead to the surface of the sore : when this is necessary you may apply a piece of lint covered with cerate, over these a piece of sheet lead, and round the whole a roller should be passed of about five yards in length. These are the various modes of treat- ment in this state of the sore. The next circumstance to which we shall advert, as giving rise to difficulty in the treat- ment of ulcers, is a languid or indolent state of the sore, in which its action is too slight. What is the character of such a sore ? You may know that a sore is in this state by the glossy and semi-transparent appearance of the granulations : instead of the florid hue which characterises granulations in their healthy state, a considerable portion of them is bloodless. The fact is, that the vessels near the surrounding parts have not sufGcient power to throw the blood to the extremities of the granulations. To remove this glossy appearance, and produce a healthy state of the sore, the application most commonly used is the ointment of red oxide of mercury. This is a strong, stimulating application, which occasions a determination of blood to the part, and produces a florid redness in the granula- tions, instead of the semi-transparent appearance which they assume in the languid state of the sore. It produces, however, a white appearance in the edge of the sore, arising from the thickened state of the skin, which prevents the growth of the gi'anulations on the edge. This may be corrected by the application of blue ointment to the edge of the sore. Lotions are frequently applied with the same view, such as the sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of 2 grains to 1 oz. of water, or the sulphate of copper, in the proportion of 1 grain to 3 ozs. of water. The oxymuriate of mercury and lime water are also used for the same purpose. In addition to these applications it will be necessary to bind up the sore with a roller, and to allow the patient to take a great deal of exercise, for without exercise a healing disposition will not be produced in the sore. It will be highly useful in these cases to employ some stimulating plaster, such as the compound galbanum plaster, for the adhesive plaster will not answer the purpose. The sores are languid, and the object is to increase the action in the part: this will be greatly assisted by giving the patient a nutritious diet, allowing him at the same time to take exercise, and, in fact, by doing everything to improve the con- stitution. The next stage of ulcers we come to i3 that to be met with in patients on their admission[ 453 ] SOU SOR into the hospitals. When the surgeon goes round the hospital on the first day after the taking in, he will meet with a number of persons with inflamed ulcers on their legs; and what is the character of these sores ? You know that there is a serous discharge from these wounds, a bloody ichor, composed of serum and the red particles of the blood, a disposition in many cases to slough, the surface being covered with a brown incrustation, and the skin and surrounding parts are highly inflamed. Well, then, you will find that the same treatment which is applicable to inflammation in general will be of service in these cases, where inflamma- tion has been kept up for a long time to a high degree. Rest must be enjoined: the patient must also keep in bed in the recumbent posture. Fomentations and poultices must be employed. Fomentations will tend to produce a secretion from the part, and poultices, by their soothing quality, to promote the growth of granulations : both will evacuate the matter from the wounds. Then, with these applica- tions, the vessels begin to form, the sore assumes a better appearance, healthy secretions are thrown out, and granulations shoot up; fibrous matter is deposited, and in a little while you will have the skin covering the wound. Fomenta- tion, poultice, lest, and the recumbent posture must be enjoined, and the patient must be purged. The best cathartic that you can ad- minister is calomel and compound extract of colocynth, 5 grains of each, at bedtime, and a draught of the infusion of senna and sulphate of magnesia on the following moi-ning: by this plan you will do more to subdue the inflamma- tion than by any other we know. If the part in the neighbourhood be much inflamed, leeches had better be applied near the circumference of the ulcer: with this treatment in a very few days granulations will spring up, pus will be secreted, and the surrounding edges will assume a healthy appearance. Without, however, attending to the constitutional treatment, all your local applications will be of very little avail. SORREL A LA BOURGEOISE. Pick and wash as much sorrel as you want, drain and squeeze all the water from it, put it into a saucepan, and set it on the fire. When the sorrel is dissolved, if there be too much water put it into a cullender, and then fry it lightly in a little butter. Put two spoonsful of flour into a basin, beat an egg up with it, add another egg, and when that is well beaten with the flour pour in a glass of milk ; then mix it with the sorrel, set it on the fire, and stir it till it has boiled a quarter of an houi\ Dish it, and serve with either poached or hard eggs. SORREL, OMELET OF, Pick, wash, and blanch some soiTel; cut it in pieces, and fry it lightly in a little butter, with shred parsley and scallions ; then put the sorrel into a saucepan, with a little cream; season, and let it boil slowly. In the meantime make an omelet in the usual way, lay it on a dish, thicken the sorrel with the yolks of two eggs, pour it on the omelet, and serve it very hot. SORREL SAUCE. Wash and pick a quantity of sorrel, and put it into a saucepan, with a piece of butter the size of an egg; cover it closely, and set it on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour; pass the sorrel through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, and season with pepper, salt, and a little powder sugar; make it hot, and serve it up under lamb, veal, or sweetbreads. Cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and lemon juice may be added. SORREL SOUP. Pick from the stalk;; and well wash in several waters two pecks of young sorrel; then squeeze it well to drain the water from it, and set it to stew on a slow fire, with nearly ^ lb. of butter, till done; drain it for two minutes on a hair sieve, and put it again in a stewpan, with a small bit of butter, on a slow fire. When the butter is melted add half a pint of consomme: when nearly reduced add another, and then seven or eight spoonsful of plain sauce. When all is well boiled together rub it through a tammy, and add a quart of consomme while you pass it; let it boil very gently two hours before the dinner, and add six eggs and half a pint of cream, mixed together as for other soups. Put this in the minute before it is served up, and if it should not be strong enough to your palate boil down some beef stock, and mix with it. SORREL, STEWED. Sorrel may be stewed alone, as in the preceding article; but another way is to put it, after washing, in a silver vessel or stone jar, with as much water as will hang on the leaves ; simmer it slowly, and when done put in a bit of butter, and beat it well. SOUBISE. Make a puree of onions as directed in Sauce Robert, set it on the fire, and when dissolved add four ladlesful of veloute, a quart of cream, and a piece of sugar the size of a walnut; keep it constantly stirring over a brisk fire till thick, then strain it through a bolter, and serve. SOUFFLE, FRENCH. Make a croustado eleven inches in diameter, and three quarters of an inch in height; put round it three sheets of battei'ed paper, and bake it. Take twelve glasses of boiling milk, in which infuse whatever ingredients you may think proper, such as vanilla, colTee, orange flowers, &c.: the propor- tions will be found under the different articles. In the meantime wash 1 lb. of rice thoroughly in warm water, then put it into a saucepan[ 454 ] sou SOU of cold water, and when it has boiled a few ttiinutes strain the rice, put it with jour infusion into another saucepan, and set it again on the fii'e. As soon as it boils place the saucepan on hot ashes, that the rice may burst gradually. In three quarters of an hour add ] lb. of powder sugar, ^ lb. of fresh butter, and a pinch of salt, and stir them well in ; put fresh hot ashes under the saucepan, that the rice may keep constantly simmering for an hour, by which time it ought to be perfectly soft, and should be rubbed through a bolter quickly, like a puree: put this into another saucepan over hot ashes to keep it warm. Take sixteen eggs, and separate the yolks and whites ; beat the former well, whisk the latter till nearly firm, and then mix the yolks with the rice, taking it off the ashes. The preparation ought to be of the same consistence as a crcme patissiere. Add at first a quarter, and after- wards the whole of the whites, and stir them in as lightly as for biscuit paste. The whole being thoroughly amalgamated, pour it into the crou- stade, and place it in a moderate oven for two hours and a half. When done cover a baking tin with red cinders, on which place the souffle the moment it is taken out of the oven. This prevents its falling whilst you mask it with powder sugar, and glaze with the salamander. Carry it into the dining-room on the tin, have a dish ready with a napkin folded on it, place the souffle on the dish, and let it be served im- mediately. Remember that a souffle cannot be served too quickly. SOUP, BROWN (without Meat). Put three quarts or more of water into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of raspings to thicken it, two or three onions cut across, some whole pepper, and a little salt; cover it closely, and boil it an hour and a half; take it off, and strain it through a sieve; fiy in some butter endive, lettuce, spinach, and any other hei'bs cut small; then take a stewpan sufficiently large to hold all the ingredients, and put in a good piece of butter; stir in a little flour, and keep stirring till its colour is of a nice brown ; then put in the herbs and soup, boil till the herbs are tender, and the soup of a proper consistence; then pour the soup in a tureen, and send to table. Serve with fried bread either in the soup or in a dish. SOUP GLAZE. Glaze is made like portable soup. A small portion will flavour a pint of ' water, and with an onion, parsley, sweet herbs, allspice, and seasoning of salt and Cayenne pepper, will make a fine soup in a very short time. Sauces and gravies for game or poultry are likewise quickly made with glaze. SOUP A LA GRIMOD. Truss a fowl, and put it into a saucepan, with a couple of pigeons and 3 lbs. of steak, all tied up to keep them in proper form; fill the saucepan with good stock, set it on the tire, and skim it well; then put in carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, celery, and two cloves; stew the whole, and when done serve as follows :—The capon and pigeons in a deep dish, garnished with whole lettuces previously cooked, small onions, carrots, and turnips, cut into dice: these are also to be dressed previously. Take the carrots, &c., which were done with the capon, and cover the capon with them; strain the liquor through a tammy, and serve in a tureen by itself, as the sauce to the capon. SOUP, HESSIAN. Take 2 lbs. of shin of beef, one pint of split peas, two onions, four carrots, six potatoes, two heads of celery, some whole pepper, salt, and five quarts of water; stew the whole together till half the quantity is boiled away, and then strain it through a hair sieve. ' SOUP, MAIGRE. Melt ^Ib. of butter in a stewpan, shake it round, and while doing so let six sliced onions be thrown in ; then shake the pan well for two or three minutes, and add five heads of celery, two handsful of spinach, two cabbage lettuces cut small, and some parsley; shake the pan well for ten minutes more, then put into it two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, and three or four blades of mace, to which may be added some white beet leaves cut small. Boil the soup gently for an hour, and previously to serving up beat into it two yolks of eggs and a spoonful of vinegar. SOUP, PORTABLE. Put on the fire, in four gallons of water, 10 lbs. of a shin of beef free from fat and skin, 6 lbs. of a knuckle of veal, and two fowls; break the bones, and cut the meat into small pieces; season with 1 oz. of whole black pepper, ^ oz. of Jamaica pepper, and the same of mace; cover the pot very closely, let it simmer for twelve or fourteen hours, and then strain it. The following day take off the fat, and clear the jelly from any sediment adhering to it; boil it gently upon a stove without covering the saucepan, and stir it frequently till it thickens to a strong glue ; pour it into broad tin pans, and put it in a cool oven. When it will take the impi-ession of a knife score it in equal squares, and hang it in a south window or near a stove. When dry break it at the scores, wrap it in paper, and pack it closely up in boxes. There should always be a large supply of this soup, as with it and catsup no one Avill ever be at a loss for dressed dishes and soups. SOUP A LA REINE. Cover the bottom of a stewpan that will hold four quarts with slices of lean ham ; then cut up one fowl, a few slices of veal, and add thereto a bundle of thyme andsou [ 455 ] SOU parsley, six onions, a few blades of mace, and about half a pint of water; put this over a slow fire for an hour, taking care that it does not catch at the bottom. When drawn down fill the pan with some best veal stock, and let it boil gently for an hour; then take out the veal and fowl, strip the latter from the bones, put the flesh and veal into a mortar, with 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, and pound the whole sufficiently fine to pass through the tammy. When beaten finely enough put it into a small soup pot that will hold three quarts, and add thereto two quarts of the soup that the meat was boiled in; then crumble therein three French rolls, let it boil for one hour, rub it through a tammy, and add about one pint of cream that has been previously boiled; put it into a soup pot, which must be placed in a stew- pan of hot water, and set by the fire to boil gently. C]it the crust of the rolls into very small pieces, and put them into the tureen before the soup. SOUP DE SAUTfi. Lay six or eight slices of lean ham, with some beef over thera, at the bottom of a stewpan, then some veal, with some partridge legs, or moor game, or chickens, salt, peppercorns, Jamaica pepper, three or four cloves, a bay leaf, and one clove of garlic ; let the whole stew together till of a fine brown colour, and then fill it up with half water and half good beef stock; add three heads of celery, two good turnips, parsley, lemon thyme, two carrots, three large onions, and a small bunch of winter savory. When the whole is thoroughly done pass it through a lawn sieve into a basin, and cut two large-sized turnips and three large leeks into pieces about the thickness of a quill, and an inch and a half long : fry these together of a nice brown colour. Next shred two cabbage lettuces, celery, endive, sorrel, and chervil: stew them down ou a very slow fii'e with a small piece of butter. When done put them in a sieve with the turnips, then put them into a soup pot, and pour the soup from the basin over them; set it on a stove, skim it, and as soon as it boils set it on one side, and let it simmer for two hours very gently. Take the crumb of a couple of French rolls, and cut it into round pieces, which brown in the oven; put them into the tureen, and pour the soup upon them. If you think proper it may be clarified the same as other clear soups ; but the real soup de saute ought not to be clarified. SOUP, TRANSPARENT. Take a leg of veal, and, after cutting off the flesh as thin as possible, break the bone in small pieces ; put the meat into a large jug, with the fragments of the bone at the top, a bunch of sweet herbs, J oz. of mace, and J lb. of sweet almonds, blanched and beaten fine; pour thereon four ouarts of boiling water, set it over a slow fire, and let it stand to settle all night. The next day remove it into a stewpan, and let it simmer till it is reduced to two quarts, but be careful in taking off the scum and fat as they rise all the time it is boiling; strain it into a large basin, and let it stand two hours to settle ; then pour it into a clean stewpan clear from the sediment, and before serving up add to it 3 ozs. of boiled rice or 3 ozs. of vermicelli. SOUP, VEGETABLE. Put 3 ozs. of butter into a gallon stewpan, and while it is melting have ready 4 ozs. of onion cut in small pieces, one turnip, and one head of celery, which must be put into the pan; cover it closely, and let the whole fry till browned, which will be in about twenty-five minutes ; then put a pint of peas, with four quarts of water, in a saucepan, and when the roots are quite brown, and the peas come to a boil, put them together. As it boils skim it clean, and put in the top crust of a small loaf, twenty-four berries of allspice, as many of black pepper, and two blades of mace; cover the jjan closely, and simmer gently for one hour and a half; then remove it from the fire for ten minutes, pour it off very gently into a large basin, and let it stand about two hours till it is quite clear. In the meantime cut into small pieces a large turnip, the red part of a large carrot, 3 ozs. of onion minced, and one large head of celery cut small; put the pieces ot turnip and carrot on the fire in cold water, let them boil five minutes, and then drain them on a sieve; pour off the soup clear into a stewpan, add the roots, set the pan on the fire, and simmer gently till the vegetables are tender, which will be from thirty to forty minutes; season it with salt and Cayenne, and it is ready. A little mushroom catsup may be added. SOUP, WHITE (without Meat). Put two or three quarts of water into a saucepan, with the crumb of a small loaf, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few cloves, whole pepper, an onion or two cut across, and a little salt; cover closely, and boil till perfectly smooth. Cut into small pieces some celery, endive, and lettuce (the white parts only); boil them, strain off the soup into a clean stewpan, put in the herbs, with a good piece of butter, and keep stirring till it is melted; then boil it till quite smooth, skim it, soak some French roll nicely rasped in a little of the soup; put it in a tureen, pour the remainder of the soup over, and send to table. SOUPS. Lean juicy beef, mutton, and veal are the best for broth; but they should be as fresh as possible, for stale meat will give it a bad taste, and that which is fat is only so much wasted. Nothing can be more impolitic thansou SOU [ 450 ] to considei* inferior meat as good enough for broth or soup, and to boil it down till it is fit only to throw away. This is false economj% for good meat not only yields most nutriment, but, after being stewed, is of itself au agreeable food. The principal art of making soup is so to pro- portion the ingredients that no one shall pre- dominate over tlie rest. Care must be taken that the roots and herbs are perfectly clean, and the quantity of water adapted to that of the meat and other articles, which is generally one quart to 1 lb. When the soup stews gently little more water need be put in than will be necessary at the end, as, by keeping the pot closed, and the fire gentle, little can evaporate. Observe that gentle stewing renders the meat peculiarly tender, and gives a fine flavour to the soup or broth. It is therefore essential that the cover of a soup kettle should fit tightly, otherwise no art will prevent the finer succulent parts of the soup from escaping. Let the pot be placed over a moderate fire, which will heat the water without causing it to boil in less than an hour, for if the boiling begins sooner the meat will not be penetrated; whereas, by keeping the water heated some time without boiling, the meat swells, becomes tender, the fibres are softened, and the whole yields a quan- tity of scum, which must be taken off as soon as it appears. The meat, however, should be well cleansed from clotted blood and other impurities before it is put into the pot. After simmering half an hour the fire may be mended, and as the pot boils the scum must be taken off till no more appears, when the vegetables must be put in together, with a little salt, which will cause more scum to rise; and on removing it cover the pot closely, and place it a little distance from the fire to boil gently from three to six hours. It is advisable to prepare soups the evening before they are wanted, which will give the cook more time to attend to her other duties ; besides this the fat can be more easily taken off in a cold than in a warm state. In pouring off the soup care must be taken to avoid dis- turbing the settlings at the bottom, for they are so fine as to escape through a sieve, or even a tammy, which is the best strainer. If strained while hot let it be through a clean tammy or napkin, that has been previously soaked through in cold water, which will congeal the fat, and only suffer the liquor to pass. Transparency is an essential quality in clear soups, and thickened ones must be of the consistence of rich cream, •with double the quantity of seasoning. For giving a body to soups clarified butter is the best; but, if there is none at hand, put some fresh butter in a stewpan over a slow clear fire, and when it is melted add a sufficient quantity of fine floiTr to make it into the thick- ness of a paste; stir it well with a woodeu spoon about fifteen or twenty minutes, till it is quite smooth and of a briglit yellow colour. The pro- cess must be gradual, for if the fire is too fierce it will become bitter : pour it into an earthen pan, and keep it for use. In summer it will keep a fortnight, but in winter longer. A large table-spoonful will be sufficient to thicken a quart of gravy; but care must be taken that it does not get a burnt smell or flavour, for if that should be the case it will spoil whatever it is put into. When cold it should be thick enough to cut out with a knife; it then forms the basis of most made dishes, soups, sauces, and ragouts. It must be gradually mixed with the soup till the whole is thoroughly blended, after which it must be simmered over a gentle fire for half an hour ; but, should it have a lumpy appearance, pass it through a tammy or fine sieve. If soup is too weak or thin take off the cover of the pot, and suffer it to boil till some of the watery part is evaporated ; or else add some of the thickening just described, to which joiu some plain browning. When soups or gravies are kept in summer or hot weather they should be warmed every day, and put into fresh-scalded tureens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar. When the weather is mild every other day may suffice. A clear jelly of cow-heels is very serviceable to be kept constantly in the house as au im- provement to soups and gravies. Trufiles and morels also thicken soups, and give them a fine appearance. Half an ounce of each should be washed, and then the whole simmered in water for a few minutes, after which it may be added to the liquor. In all families where much cooking is re- quired it is necessary to have a constant supply of what is called store or stock, without which neither soups, gravies, nor made dishes can be prepared. This essential article commonly con- sists of beef or veal. To make the first, take 20 lbs. of coarse lean beef cut into small pieces, and put the same into a pot, or rather a diges.ter, with water sufficient merely to cover it. «When it begins to simmer keep it well skimmed, and add such potherbs as may be proper to give it a flavour. Season the whole with salt or ground pepper, and keep it simmering till the meat is quite tender. Skim well, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in a covered pan for use. Veal stock is made thus :—Take 10 lbs. or 12 lbs. of coarse pieces, such as the leg, neck, &c., to which add about 1 lb. of lean ham, together with the bone. Cut the meat small, and chop or break the bones, after which put the whole into two quarts_ of water, with herbssou [ 457 ] SPA to suit the palate, as in beef stock. Let these ingi'edients simmer till the meat is nearly tender, but the liquor not discoloured, that it may be fit for white soups ; then add as much of the beef stock as will cover the veal, whidh may be kept simmering half an hour longer. Take off the fat, strain the liquor through a sieve, and keep it for use. SOURNESS IN BEER maybe prevented for a length of time by suspending in it a lump of chalk tied to a string. When beer has become acid the best addition is to stir into it, when in the tumbler, as much bicarbonate of potash as is needed. It forms a salt with the acid much less weakening than that formed by the bi- carbonate of soda. SOUSE FOR BRAWN. Boil a quart of oatmeal, a quarter of a peck of bran, a little rose- mary, some bay leaves, and i lb. of salt, in two gallons and a half of water, for about half an hour ; strain off the liquor, add a little vinegar, and when cold it will be fit for use. To make it stronger, for the longer preservation of the article, add one pint of spirits of wine or of good brandy to six quarts of the liquor, SOY, or SoojiE, is a sauce prepared from the beans of the Soja hispida, a native of Japan., The following is the mode of making the Eng- lish imitation:—Seeds of Dolichos soja (peas or kidney beans may be used for them), one gallon; boil till soft, and add one gallon of bruised wheat; keep in a warm place for twenty-four hours ; then add common salt, one gallon; water, two gallons; put the whole into a stone jar, bung it up for two or three months, shaking it very often, and press out the liquor. The re- siduum may be treated afresh with water and salt for soy of an inferior quality. SPA WATER. The spring which supplies this water is called Pouhon, and is in the centre of the village of Spa, in the principality of Liege. In cold dry weather it appears colourless and clear, but in moist weather the surface of the well becomes turbid, and on the approach of rain a humming noise is heard, which the country people call the music of the spring. This water, when freshly taken out of the well, scarcely sparkles ; but in a few minutes it sepa- rates small air-bubbles, which adhere to the inside of the glass, and increase very copiously when the water is shaken or poured from one glass into another. It has a bright appearance and an agreeable acidulous taste, with a strong chalybeate impression; but it loses these sen- sible qualities on exposure to the air. "When kept in bottles well corked, and covered with cement, it will preserve for a long time its original state nearly unaltered. The contents of a wine pint of Spa water, as ascertained by Bergmann, and reduced to English measure, are the following:— Grains, Oxide of iron . . . "OG Carbonate of lime . . . 1-47 Carbonate of magnesia . . 4:'40 Carbonate of soda . . . I i7 Jhloride of sodium , '173 8-132 The gas given out is entirely carbonic acid, and amounts to about 45 per cent, of the bulk of the water, making 12-79 cubic inches, or about 6J ozs. in every wine pint. Spa water is, therefore, a chalybeate, and a very strongly acidulous water. The quantity of alkaline mat- ter which it contains is, notwithstanding, suffi- cient to make it mix very uniformly with milk, and to give it antacid properties after the carbonic acid has been expelled by the heat of the stomach. The sensible operation of this water is de- cidedly stimulant. When taken in a full draught, particularly in hot weather, or upon an empty stomach, it strikes the nose with a pungent vapour, and occasions a swimming in the head, and a degree of intoxication wliich sometimes continues for half an hour, but docs not debilitate. Although, by its general sti- mulant quality, it promotes every secretion, its most regular determination is to the kidneys and the skin. It is particularly well calculated to afford relief in acrid discbarges from the urinary pas- sages ; in all disorders in females arising from derangement in the menstrual evacuation, and especially in removing sterility when the con- sequence of fluor albus, or relaxation of the uterine system; and in the male sex, in pre- venting involuntary discharge of semen, and the weakness induced by gonorrhoea. In disorders of the alimentary canal, as bilious vomiting, diarrhoea, and dysentery, it proves an excellent auxiliary remedy, particularly in restoring the tone and healthy action of the stomach and bowels. Its diffusive stimulant character ren- ders it improper in all inflammatory complaints. During its use the regular action of the bowels should be maintained by occasional doses of some aperient medicines. The dose of this water is usually about half a pint three or four times a day, increased gradually until some effect is produced on the secretions. After this no further increase is necessary. The course must be continued so long as there are signs of its salutary operation on the disease, and of ultimate success. Some invalids on the spot are in the habit of diluting with this water the wine which forms their common drink. This beverage is found pleasant; and salutary.[ 458 ] SPE SPA SPARERIB: To Dpks?. This xisnally weighs about 8 lbs. or 9 lbs., and will require roasting from two to three hours, according to the thickness of the meat upon it. A bald sparerib, however, of 8 lbs. will be done in an hour and a quarter. Be careful not to place it to a fierce fire, and before putting it down joint it well, and crack the ribs across. Lay the thickest end next to the grate. Immediately afterwards dust on it some flour, and baste it with butter. Next take twelve dry leaves of sage, rub them through a hair sieve, put them into the top of a pepper-box, and about a quarter of an hour before the meat is done baste it with butter, and throw the powdered sage over it; or, instead of lhis, you may sprinkle it with duck stuffing. Serve with apple sauce and mashed potatoes. Some people carve a sparerib by cutting out slices of the thick part at the bottom of the bones, by which means these are easily separated, and by many are preferred. SPARROW PUDDING. Make a good puff paste; pick, clean, and season your spar- rows with pepper and salt; lay the paste in a basin or mould, and then put in the sparrows, with the breasts downwards ; place a good bit of butter over all, and a lid to cover them ; inclose the basin in a cloth, and boil it an hour. A beefsteak pudding may be done in the same way. SPASMS. See Antispasmodics. SPECTACLES. It is generally observed that those who soonest need the assistance of spectacles are husbandmen, sportsmen., sailors, and others whose eyes are mostly employed upon remote objects; and that the short-sighted, who require their aid later in life, are met with among scholars and mechanics, who are daily conversant with books and other new objects ; so that the eye, like every organ, is inclined to keep to that conformation to which it has been most accustomed. Spectacles, by assisting the eyes to converge rays of light, restore and preserve to us one of the most noble and valuable of our senses. They enable the mechanic to continue his labours and earn his subsistence till the extreme of old age. By their aid the scholar pursues his studies, and recreates his mind with intellectual pleasures, thus passing away daj^s and years with delight and satisfaction, which might otherwise have been devoured by melancholy, or wasted in idle- ness. Spectacles, when well chosen, should neither enlarge nor diminish objects, and should show the letters of a book black and distinctly; nor ought they in any degree to fatigue the eye. Every one must determine for himself the glasses which produce the most distinct vision; yet some attention should be paid to the judgment of the person of whom they are purchased. By ti'ving many spectacles the eye becomes fatigued in accommodating itself to the several changes, and the purchaser often fixes on a pair which is injurious to his sight. People frequently injure those tender organs, and deprive themselves of future assistance from glasses, by purchasing them of hawkers and pedlars, who are equally ignorant of the science of optics, and of the construction of the eye. Fades for the preservation of the sight. 1. Never sit for any length of time in absolute gloom, or exposed to a blaze of light, and then remove to an opposite extreme. 2. Avoid reading veiy small print. 3. Never read by twilight nor by firelight, nor, if the eyes are disordered, by candle- light. 4. Do not permit the eye to dwell on glaring objects, particularly on first awaking in the morning. 5. Long-sighted persons should accustom themselves to read with rather less light, and somewhat nearer to the eye than is naturally agreeable, while the short-sighted should habitu- ate themselves to read with the book as far off as possible 6 Nothing preserves the sight longer than a moderate degree of light • too little strains the eyes, and too great a quantity strains and dazzles them. 7 Do not wear other spectacles than your own, to which your eyes have accommodated themselves. When spectacles are necessary. 1. Spectacles are necessary when we are obliged to remove small objects to an increased distance from the eye to see them distinctly. 2. When we find it necessary to have more light than formerly, as, for instance, when we find ourselves placing the candle between the eye and the object. 3. When, on looking at, and attentively con- sidering, a near object, it becomes confused, and appears to have a kind of mist before it. 4. When the letters of a book run into one another, and become double and treble. 5. When the eyes are so fatigued by a little exercise that we are obliged to shut them from time to time, and to relieve them by looking at different objects. FmUs for calculating tliejocnsoj convex glasses. For those who live at a distance from large cities the following mode of calculating the focus of glasses will prove useful:— Multiply the distance at which a person sees distinctly with his naked eye by the distance at which it is required he should see, and divide the product by the difference between the said distances: the quotient is the desired focus.[ 459 ] SPI SPE Rule for concave glasses for near-sighted per- sons. Multiply the greatest distance at which the short-sighted sees distinctly \yith his naked eye by the distance at which it is required he should see distinctly by a concave glass, and divide the product by the difference between the said distances. If it is to see objects remote the focus should be the same as that required for the distance of distinct vision. SPERMACETI. The spermaceti whale is characterised by his enormous head, great part of which is occupied by a triangular cavity of bone, covered only by the common integuments. In the living animal this cavity is filled with a white, fluid, oily substance, amounting some- times to many tons in weight. On the death of the whale it congeals into a white unctuous mass, from which a considerable quantity of very pure whale oil is obtained by expression. The residuum, afterwards freed from impurities by washing with water, melting, straining, express- ing through linen bags, and lastly washing in a weak lye of potash, is the peculiar substance well known by the name of spermaceti, for which, probably on account of its conveying an incor- rect idea of the nature of the substance, the London College has substituted cetaceum,, which has been adopted by other colleges. Spermaceti is also contained in solution in the common whale and other fish oils, for it is often found deposited by crystallisation in the reservoirs containing them. Great quantities of spermaceti are annually consumed in the manufacture of candles and tapers, which are preferable to those made of wax, as the former burn not only brighter, and are of a finer colour, but, when genuine, do not stain or grease the finest silks, linens, or cottons. This drug is also used as a cosmetic for soften- ing and cleansing the skin. In medicine it is chiefly recommended in the form of an emul- sion, with distilled waters and the yolks of eggs, for relieving various affections of the intestines, coughs arising from defluxions of acrid humours, &c. Spennaceti is also dissolved in oils, and beneficially applied to bruises, sprains, and similar injuries, as it contributes to mitigate pain. SPICED BREAD, COMMON. Boil 3 lbs. of honey in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour, then pour it on the flour in the trough, and mix them together well until the flour will imbibe no more liquid. When a little cooled add 3 ozs. of potash, infused the night before in half a pint of milk, and knead the whole well, putting to it some pounded anise. Roll out the paste, and with paste cutters of various forms cut it into little figures; lay them on a well-oiled tin, bake them, and when done wash them over with milk. With this paste spiced nuts are made. When formed lay them on tins, and leave them in a warm place two or three days before they are baked. SPICED BREAD, DUTCH. The evening before you wish to make j'our spiced bread dissolve 3 ozs. of white potash in half a pint of milk, and set it aside. The next morning put a considerable quantity of sifted flour into a trough, and make a hole in the heap, into which pour 6 lbs. of clarified honey. Whilst boiling stir it well with a strong spatula until the honey, reduced to a firm paste, will imbibe no more flour; then spread it over the bottom of the trough, and leave it for about ten or fifteen minutes. At the end of that time, if the paste be sufficiently cool for you to bear your hand on it, rub its surface with the infusion of potash ; then set a strong person to knead it in the same man- ner as the bakers knead bread. Have ready a number of different-sized moulds of pear-tree wood, on which are cut, pretty deep, octagons of various dimensions; then cut your paste into as many pieces as you have moulds in the follow- ing proportions :—For the mould containing ] lb. take 18 ozs. of paste, and so on; knead each piece separately on the slab, rub them with flour to prevent them from adhering, and then put them into the respective moulds, press- ing them down tightly. In a minute or two turn them over, place them on a tin plate previously rubbed with olive oil, and with a soft brush take off what flour may remain on the surface of the spiced bread, and bake them in a moderate oven. Whilst they are baking dissolve some isinglass in a sufficient quantity of beer, with which, by means of a hair pencil, wash the outside of the spiced bread as soon as it is done, and then while it is moist and warm decorate it with blanched almonds, and candied lemon and orange-peel cut into dice. You may, if you think proper, cut these sorts of sweetmeats into very small pieces, and knead them into your paste at first. When they are nearly cold separate the pieces with a knife. SPICED BREAD, DUTCH (Rich). Make your paste in the same manner as above, and when kneaded with the potash add J lb. of aiiise, 2 ozs. of coriander, 2 ozs. of cinnamon, 1 oz. of cloves (all reduced to an impalpable powder), 1 lb. of candied lemon-peel, and the same of candied orange-peel, both cut into thin slices ; mix these ingredients thoroughly with the paste, and then cut it into pieces, each weighing 28 ozs. (these, when baked, will not exceed 1 lb. in weight); spread them on your slab, and form them into squares two or three inches in thickness ; place them side by side on a baking tin previously rubbed with oil of almonds, and put round the tin some slips of wood, to prevent[ 400 ] SPI SPI the spiced bread from getting thinner at tbe edges ; dip a brush in some milk, rub the sur- face of the spiced bread with it, and put it into a raodei'ate oven till well risen, and of a brownish colour. Whilst it is baking blanch a few almonds, and split them ; cut some candied lemon or orange-peel into very thin slices, and as soon as the spiced bread is taken from the oven wash it over with a decoction of isinglass and beer, and immediately decorate it with the almonds, &c. SPICES. {See Cloves, &c.) The following are compounds well known by cooks, and em- ployed as their names point out:— Ragout Spice. Salt, 1 lb.; flour of mustard, black pepper, grated lemon-peel, of each i lb.; allspice, ginger, nutmeg, of each 2 drachms ; Cayenne pepper, 2 ozs. Mix. Sausage Spice. Black pepper, 5 lbs.; cloves, nutmegs, of each lb. ; ginger, lbs.' ani- seed, coriander seed, of each ^ lb. Mix. Savouey Spice. Cloves, mace, nutmegs, pepper, salt, of each 1 lb. Mix. Sweet Spice. Cloves, mace, nutmegs, cinna- mon, sugar, of each I lb. Mix. SPINACH: To Boil. Spinach is some- times exceedingly gritty. It must, therefore, be thoroughly picked and washed in several waters ; tlien put it into a large saucepan of boiling water, with plenty of salt in it; let it boil till done, take it out, put it into a cullender, squeeze it to drain it from the water, then cut it in squares, lay it on a dish, and serve it to table. SPITSTACH FRITTERS. Boil some spinach thoroughly; drain, mince, and add to it some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and cinnamon (all pounded), and as much cream or yolks and whites of eggs as will make it the consistence of batter; mix in a few currants previously scalded, and drop the batter into a frying-pan on boiling lard. As soon as they rise take them out, di-ain, and sei-ve them. SPINACH PUDDING. Pick and well wash a quarter of a peck of spinach, and boil it until quite tender. A little salt should be put into the water it is boiled in, and the saucepan must be kept closely covered. When boiled put it in a sieve to drain, and then cut it small; beat up six eggs, and mix them with half a pint of cream or milk, a stale roll grated very finely, a little grated nutmeg, and J lb. of melted butter; stir all well together, put it into the saucepan the spinach was stewed in, and keep stirring it till it begins to thicken ; then wet a pudding cloth, flour it well, put in the mixture, tie it up, and boil for an hour ; turn it out on a dish, pour over it melted butter, with a little Seville orange juice and sugar mixed in it, and sefve. SPINACH PUFFS. Take as much boiled spinach as is equal to four eggs, squeeze it quite dry, shred it small, and add half the quantity of powder sugar, the same of butter, four spoonsful of cream, the yolks of four hard- boiled eggs, and 2 ozs. of citron, the latter two minced; season with beaten cinnamon and grated nutmeg, put them all into a stewpan to simmer a little while, and then set them by to cool. Make a paste with the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of milk, some flour, a pinch of salt, and the same of sugar; roll it out very thin, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, and upon each lay a spoonful of spinach as above; turn the paste over, and pinch the edges round neatly in the form of a semicircle. These puffs may be boiled a quarter of an hour, and served with grated bread and Parmesan cheese strewed over them, or fried in boiling lard, and sent to table with powder sugar over. SPINACH TART. Take some spinach, and clean it thoroughly, as it is apt to be gritty; •pick and scald it, and give it a few turns in a little butter, with salt and nutmeg; mix the spinach with frangipane, and finish the tart like that of fi-angipane. SPINACH TOASTS. Boil some spinach for a quarter of an hour, then squeeze out all the water, chop it small, and put it into a mortar, with three or four spoonsful of apple marmalade, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and three raw eggs, two biscuits soaked in cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; pound all these together to a paste, put it into a dish, and mix it with a few dry currants and three or four spoonsful of melted butter. Cut some slices of bread half an inch thick, four inches long, and two broad; toast them nicely, spread the spinach, &c., over them to the thickness of half an inch, and wash each over with white of egg; place the toasts on a baking tin well buttered, and bake them for half an hour. When done grate nutmeg and squeeze orange juice over them, and serve. SPINE. [See Curvature of the Spixe.) We may add to what we have already stated that the following exercises have been found highly beneficial in checking curvature, and in strengthening the muscles of the back:— ]. Prolonged inspirations, the patient sitting. 2. Prolonged inspirations, the patient standing, the arms fixed. 3. The same exercise, the arms hanging down. 4. The same, the arms extended horizontally. 5. The same, the arms fixed to a horizontal pole. 6. Deep inspiration, and counting a certain number without drawing the breath. 7. Movement of the feet on the ground, the patient sitting. 8. Deep inspira- tion, the patient lying on the left side, and lean-[ 461 ] SPI SPE ing on tlie elbow. 9. In the same position, to raise and to lower the body. 10. Walking slowly, and making deep inspirations. 11. Walking a little faster, and counting several steps without drawing breath. 12. Bending without rising, the weak hand fixed above. 13. Piaffer (a term in the manege, which can be best explained by the military phrase " marking time"), with both hands fixed to the horizontal pole. 14. Bending the body, bearing a weight in the weak hand. 15. PiafFer, bearing the same weight in the weak hand. 16. Lifting up a small box from the ground with both hands. 17. The same exercise with the weak hand. 18. To declaim without moving. 19. The same, walking slowly. 20. Singing without drawing breath. 21, 22, 23. Movements of balance simple, in front and on one side. 25, 26, 27. Develope other motions of the arms difficult to describe without diagrams. 28. To imitate the motion of sawing, the patient placed below. 29. The same, the patient placed above. 30. The above exercises with the weak hand only. 31. To draw against a spring with the weak hand, only. 32. The same, the arms and body being fixed. 33. Seated on the ground, to rise with the assistance of the arms, the feet fixed. 34. Lying down horizontally, to raise the body without the assistance of the arms. 35. Exer- cise of the arms with a pulley, the patient sitting, the body fixed. 3G. The same, with the weak hand only. 37. The same, the head fixed in a straight direction. 38. The same, direction of the head to the weak side. 39. Walking some distance, giving the weak arm to a tall person. 40. Lying on the chest, to raise the body backwards. 41. Sitting on the ground, to pull a stick, first with both hands, then with the weak one. 42. Piaffer, leaping up with a weight in the weak hand. 43. The cross step in the same manner. 44, 45, 46. Other movements not explainable with- out diagrams. 47. To rise and to fall, the knees fixed to the arms. 48. To bend the lower extremities, the arms fixed, the weak one higlier than the other. SPIEIT OF WINE. See Alcohol. SPITTING BLOOD. /See Blood, Spitting OP. SPLEEN, INFLAMED. Pain, tumour, and sensation of heat occupy the left side and region of the spleen. There is also some pro- tuberance externally perceptible, and fever, as in other internal local inflammations. The causes are such as external injury. This may be known from inflammation of the lungs by the seat of the disorder; also by the throbbing pain increased on pressure, and by the breathing not being aflfected. Though the disease is, for the most part, easily removed, should an abscess form, which it will sometimes do without much previous painful sensation, this, suddenly burst- ing, pours out its contents among tlie intestines, and destroys the person afflicted. « The spleen, like the liver, is occasionally subject to chronic pain, requiring nutritious diet, mild temperature, and exercise propor- tioned to the strengtli; also the suitable in- fluence of objects acting on the organs of sense, and of such as excite the mind. Its other remedies are alteratives and corroborants. SPONGrB, in the state in which it is met with in commerce, is a soft, light, elastic, and very porous substance, which readily absorbs liquids into which it is immersed, and yields them up again on compression. It may bo considered as the skeleton of an animal, fi'om which the soft gelatinous part representing the flesh has been removed at the time of its col- lection. In the living state it is found attached by its base to rocks at the bottom of tlie sea. It occurs in the Indian, American, and Nor- wegian seas, and the Mediterranean. The best sponges are brought from the Grrecian Archi- pelago, and are called Turkey sponges. An inferior kind is brought from the West Indies, and is called West India or Bahama sponge. Sponge is extensively used for various domestic purposes : the ashes resulting from its combus- tion in close vessels have also been used in medicine, on account of a small portion of iodine which they contain. 8ee Chakcoal. Sponge is of extensive utility in domestic economy, medicine, and surgery. If it be cut in small pieces, fried or dipped in honey, and given to mice, it distends their intestines, and effectually destroys them. As it strongly ad- heres to the orifices of wounded vessels, it is advantageously employed as a styptic, often preventing the effusion of blood more effectually than the puff-ball or agaric. To bleach sponge, soak it in very dilute muriatic acid to remove calcareous matter, then in cold water, changing it frequently, and squeezing the sponge out each time; next soak it in water holding a little sulphuric or sulphurous acid, or chlorine in solution, changing the acid frequently till the sponge is sufiiciently bleached. Lastly, repeatedly wash and soak in clean water, and scent with rose or orange-flower water. SPONGE CAKE. See Cake, Sponge. SPEAIN. This is a violent twisting, and sometimes tearing, of the tendons of a joint. The wrists, ankles, and knees are most liable to it. In the treatment of sprains two circum- stances are necessary to be attended to: firstly, to check the swelling; and secondly, to use the best means for removing inflammation. For the first purpose astringent applications, such as vinegar, ardent spirits, lees of wine, &c., maySPR [46 / lie made use of, to prevent effusion from talting place. PluDgiug the sprained limb also into the coldest water that can be procured, as soon after the accident as possible, is often attended with the best effects, and may be advised as the first step, till one or other of the preceding articles can be procured for a fomentation. With the second intention a number of leeches may be applied to the swelled part, and repeated again the next morning if the pain and in- flammation do not readily give way. At night a cold poultice of linseed meal and vinegar, where there is much pain and tension, may be applied, and an opiate (1 grain of opium) given at bedtime. Eest is also indispensable, and the limb should never be kept in a pendent position. Should any weakness remain from the effects of the accident, pumping cold water every morning, and wearing a calico bandage for a length of time to support the part, will be attended with beneficial effects. Soap liniment (opodeldoc) will be a useful anodyne and discutient applica- tion. See Embkocation. SPRATS are chosen by the same rules as herrings, and are dressed in the same manner, SPRUCE BEER (1). Pour eight gallons of cold water into a barrel, and then add the same quantity of boiling water, with 12 lbs. of molasses and about | lb. of essence of spruce. On its be- coming cooler put in half a pint of good ale yeast; stir the whole well, or roll the barrel about, and then leave it with the bung out for two or three days, after which bottle the liquor and wire the corks for use. If spruce beer is made from the branches or cones they must be boiled two hours, after which the liquor should be strained into a barrel, and the molasses and the yeast added as already directed. Spruce beer should be bottled in stone, and drunk immediately on being opened. SPRUCE BEER (2). For a cask of six gallons mix \ lb. of the essence of spruce, 7 lbs. of loaf sugar made into a clarified syrup, and about one gallon and a half of hot water. When sufficiently stirred and incorporated put it into the cask, and fill it nearly up with cold water; then add about a quarter of a pint of good yeast, shake the vessel well, and let it work three or four days, after which bung it up. In a few days it may be bottled off, and in about a week more it will be fit for use. To give it transparency add 1 oz. of isinglass, first dis- solved in some of the liquor or cyder. In pro- portion to the coldn_ess of the weather the quantity of yeast should be increased. In warm weather little yeast is required. SPRUCE BEER (3). Allow ] oz of hops and a spoonful of ginger to a gallon of water. When well boiled strain it, and put in a pint of niolastiC.?, and ^ oz. or less of the essence of ] SQU spruce. When cool add a tea-cupful of yeast, put it into a clean tight cask, let it ferment for a day or two, and then bottle for use. You can boil the sprigs of spruce fir in the room of the essence. SPUNK. See Boletus Tindeb. SQUAB PIE, See Devokshire Squash Pie and Pie, Squab. SQUASH. See Gourd and Pumpkin. SQUILL {Scilla maritima). The officinal squill, or sea onion, is a native of Spain, Sicily, Syria, and Barbary, and flowers in April and May. The bulbs are large, sometimes nearly the size of the human head, and of a pear shape. They are brought to this country generally from the Levant, and may be preserved fresh for some time in sand ; but, as they are apt to spoil, they are best preserved for medicinal use in a dried state by cutting them in segments, and exposing them to the heat of a moderate fire The squill bulb is inodorous, but its taste is bitter, nauseous, and acrid; and, when much handled, it inflames and ulcerates the skin. In small doses it is expectorant and diuretic, in larger doses erbetic and purgative. From its stimulant properties it cannot be given with propriety in pulmonary inflammation until the inflammatory stage is past, after which it proves useful in relieving the difficulty of breathing. It is usefully combined with nitre, tartai-ised antimony, or ipecacuanha, and in asthma and difficulty of breathing without fever, combined with ammoniacum, it is often an efficacious remedy. In dropsy, conjoined with a mercurial and opium, it is also advantageous. It is a very uncertain emetic. The dose of the dried bulb in powder (which should be kept in a closely stopped bottle, as it rapidly attracts moisture from the air) is at first 1 grain, which may be given in the form of a pill, with soap, morning and evening, or every six hours, gradually increasing the dose to 5 or 6 grains, or until some degree of nausea is induced, and its expectorant or diuretic effect obtained. OxYMEL OF Squills. Take of honey l^lb.; vinegar of squills, 1 pint. Boil in a glass vessel over a gentle fire to a proper consistence. The dose, as an expectorant in asthma and obstinate coughs, is from J fluid drachm to 2 fluid drachms in some aromatic water, such as cinnamon. In larger doses it is given to excite vomiting, and at the same time clear the chest, as in hooping cough. It is said also to be useful for such purpose in croup. Tincture of Squills. Take of the fresh squill root dried, 2 ozs.; proof spirit, 1 pint. Macerate for fourteen days, and filter. This is given for the same complaint as the preceding preparation. The dose is from lu to jJO[ 463 ] SQU STE drops in almond mixture, ammoniac mixture, or mucilage. Vinegar of Squills. Take of fresh squill root (bulb) dried, 4ozs.; distilled vinegar, 1| pint; proof spirit, f2 ozs. Macerate the squill root in the vinegar with a gentle heat for twenty-four hours ; then express the liquor, and set it aside, that the feculencies may subside ; lastly, add the spirit to the clear liquor. This is expectorant and diuretic in chronic catarrh, humoral asthma, and dropsies. The dose is from i fluid drachm to 2 fluid drachms. In' larger doses it produces vomiting, and is occa- sionally used in the above diseases when the stomach is loaded. SQUINTING, arising from the habit of using one eye only, or from the weakness or imperfection of the other, may be generally cured. Another arising from some mal-con- formation of the eye, or its parts, is scarcely remediable. The principle of cure in the first two species is nearly the same ; namely, the constant exer- cise of the neglected eye, whether naturally weak or not. This may be effected by covering the strong eye, or that which is always employed, and confining the person to the use of the neglected or weak eye ; for in this way the muscles of the latter, from constant action, will become perfect in the habit of directing the eye upon the object, gain strength in that action, and acquire a power of adjusting the eye. When this is established in a sufficient degree • the other eye may be set at liberty. The time that will be necessary for the cure will depend upon the inveteracy of the habit, the length of time that the muscles have been left to them- selves, and the degree of weakness of the sight; for it is with difficulty that muscles acquire an increased degree of action after having been long habituated to a more limited contraction. Dr. Darwin observes that if the squinting has not been confirmed by long habit, and one eye be not much worse than the other, a piece of gauze stretched on a circle of whalebone, to cover the best eye in such a manner as to re- duce the distinctness of vision of this eye to a similar degree of imperfection with the other, should be worn some hours every day. For the cure of the curious case related by the same ingenious physician, in which there was no defect in either eye, but merely a de- praved habit of using both eyes separately. Dr. Darwin says a gnomon of thin brass was made to stand over his nose, with a half-circle of the same metal to go round his temples; these were covered with black silk, and by means of a buckle behind his head, and a cross-piece over the crown of his head, this gnomon was managed so as to be worn without inconvenience, and pro- jected before his nose about two inches and a half. By the use of this gnomon he soon found it less inconvenient to view all objects with the eye next to them, instead of the eye opposite to them. After this habit was weakened by a week's use of the gnomon, two bits of wood about the size of a goose-quill were blackened all but a quarter of an inch at their summits; these were pre- sented for him to look at, one being held on one side the extremity of his black gnomon, and the other on the other side of it. As he viewed those they were gradually brought forward beyond the gnomon, and the one concealed behind the other. By these means in another week he could bend both his eyes on the same object for half a minute together. By the practice of this exercise before a glass continually he became in another week able to read for a minute together with his eyes both directed on the same objects. If the squinting cannot thus be removed it is at once curable by dividing the contracted nerve, which draws the eyeball too much to one side. STAIR CARPET. Stair carpets should always have a slip of paper put under them, at and over the edge of every stair, which is the part where they first wear out, in order to lessen the friction of the carpets against the boards beneath. The strips should be, within an inch or two, as long as the carpet is wide, and about four or five inches in breadth, so as to lie a little distance upon each stair. This simple plan, so easy of execution, will, we know, preserve a stair carpet half as long again as it would last without the strips of paper. STAMMERING. See Impediment op Speech. STARCH. See Clear Starching. STARKEY'S PILLS. See Matthews Pills. STAYS. See Corsets. STEAM, COOKING BY. Much relative to this subject will be found under the head of Gas, Cooking by. Many are the boilers and forms of apparatus invented for this mode of cookery; but we refrain from inserting them, because it is quite certain that neither meat, poultry, nor fish can be so well cooked by steam as by boiling. For steaming potatoes, which is an excellent mode of cooking them, no other apparatus is needed than a saucepan with a steamer fitted to its top. STEEL ARTICLES. -See Anti-attrition, Bars (Bright), &c. STEWING differs from roasting and boiling in the heat being applied to the substance thi'ough a small portion of a liquid medium,STE STO [ 464 ] and from boiling or frying in the process Leing conducted by means of an aqueous, and not by an oily liquid. It is necessary tliat the fire be moderate, for a strong heat being applied would be very injurious. The liquids employed as the medium for applying the heat are usually water, gravy, or broth, the quantity of which must be such as shall prevent the meat from burning and adhering to the pan. It is not requisite that the liquid be made to boil in stewing. It should only be raised nearly to a simmering heat, which mil retard the fluid being evaporated too quickly. The closeness of the vessel will only prevent the ■waste of the liquid. If it diminishes too quickly it must from time to time be re- plenished. The management of the fire in cooking is in all cases a matter of importance ; but in no case is it so necessary to be attended to as in preparing stews or made dishes. Not only palatableness, but even the strength or rich- ness of all made dishes seems to depend very much upon the management of the heat em- ployed in cooking them. The most proper sorts of animal food for stewing are such as abound in fibre, and which are too dry or too tough for roasting. When beef or mutton is rather too old or too coarse- flavoured, and not tender enough for the spit or the gridiron, it may by stewing be not only rendered tolerably palatable, but even some- times savoury and good. But the stewing pro- cess is not confined to flesh of this sort; for veal and other sorts of young flesh, which abound in gelatine, when properly stewed, are much relished. The vegetables most usually stewed are turnips, carrots, potatoes, peas, beans, and other leguminous seeds. Some fruits are also cooked in this way. Stewing is nothing else than boiling by means of a small quantity of an aqueous fluid, and continuing the operation for a long time to make the substance tender, to loosen its texture, to render it more sapid, and to retain and concentrate the most essential parts of animal or vegetable food. If the stewpan be closely shut it is evident that none of the nutritive principles can escape, and must either be found in the meat itself or in the liquid. The water or gravy in which the meat is stewed being capable of dissolving the gelatine and albumen, the greater part of them becomes separated during the simmering process. Now, since the firm texture of the bundles of fibres of the meat is owing to the solid gelatine and albumen gluing them as it were together, when they are dissolved and disengaged the meat must be greatly disorganised. These principles, as well as the fat osmazome, are partly disengaged from the meat, and become united to the gravy. It is to these, indeed, that the gravy owes all its richness and ex- cellence. The muscular fibres and the tendons acquire a gluey appearance and texture, and the whole forms a savoury gelatinous stew, gravy, or soup. No scorching or browning of the meat takes place if the process is properly conducted, for the temperature to which it is exposed does not •exceed the boiling point of water. In stewing the vegetables, saccharine matter is formed; starch and mucilage are rendered soluble, and of course set free the woody fibre, which either floats through the liquid or adheres together very slightly. It accordingly con- stitutes either a pasty fluid, or converts the vegetable to a soft pulp, sometimes their original shape being preserved entire, and at other times not. STING. See Adder and Lotion. STITCH. See Spasms. STOCK FOR BROWN OR WHITE SOUPS. Take 1 lb. of skate, five flounders, and 2 lbs. of eels; cut them in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with as much water as will cover them, a little mace, an- onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover closely, strain it off for use if it is for brown soup, fry the fish brown in butter, and then put it to stew. STOCK FOR GRAVY SOUP, OR GRAVY. Cut a knuckle of veal into slices ; slice also 1 lb. of lean beef aird 1 lb. of lean gammon of bacon ; put these into a stewpan, with three scraped carrots, a couple of onions, a couple of turnips, two heads of celery, and two quarts of water. Let the meat stew till quite tender, but it must not be brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for soup or brown or white gravy. If for brown gravy it must be first coloured in the usual manner. STOCKINGS. In purchasing these choose those which have not been stiffened; for this is done to give a poor article the appearance of a stout one, by holding it over a stove in which brimstone is burned. Most persons in examining the quality look to the bend about the calf, and therefore the makers take care to have this the strongest part. But those parts which first wear out, such as the foot, particularly the heel, should always be the strongest; and therefore in selecting take the stoutness of these, as com- pared with the other parts, for your guidance. Some stockings are made of double thickness at the heel, and these should be preferred, the superior quality compensating for the trifling extra cost. In judgmg a silk stocking the[ 463 ] STO STO %veight is a good criterion, and wetting it and passing over the finger will enable you to judge whether cotton is mixed up with the silk. To clean white silk stockings place them for about ten minutes in boiling soapy water; by that time it will have become sufficiently cool to admit of their being thoroughly washed ; rinse them in cold spring watei*, in which a few drops of liquid blue have been poured, and then dry them. Persons who are in the habit of frequently wash- ing silk stockings provide themselves with a model of a leg in wood, on which the stockings are drawn when dry, and rubbed briskly with a piece of flannel to give them the necessary lustre. The above process being comj^leted, they are to be bleached as follows:—Suspend them on a line about six feet from the floor in a closet, or small room (without a chimney), the window and door of which must close exactly. Should there be any crevices they must be care- fully stopped. Place in one corner of the apart- ment an iroii'vessel tilled with burning coals, put a few pieces of sulphur broken in small bits into an earthen pan, and place it on the coals. Hasten from the room, and close the door. The sulphur now melts, takes fire slightly, and is converted into sulphuric acid gas, which, acting on the silk, renders it beautifully white. It is impossible to state the exact quantity of sulphur to be employed, as it depends on the size of the room. If only a few things are to be bleached, such as handkerchiefs or stockings, they may be suspended in a chest which closes well, the coals and sulphur being placed in a corner of the chest, which is, of course, to be kept well closed while the sulphur is in a state of combustion. In whatever manner the bleach- ing is perfornfied care must be taken to inhale tlie suffocating vapour of the sulphur as little as possible. The texture of those beautiful French thread stockings and gloves, which have obtained the supremacy over those of silk, is so delicate that peculiar cai'e is requisite in the method of wash- ing them. The following is the most approved :— A lather of cold water is to be made in a sauce- pan, the stockings ai'e to be well soaped, and placed in it over the fire. When they have boiled take them out, and having made a fresh cold lather, let them again boil. If this simple pi'ocess be well performed the stockings and gloves, on being a second time removed, will require little more than rinsing. Thus the fabric is uninjured by rubbing—a bad plan, that desti'oys our stockings much more rapidly than we can wear them out. When silk stockings have been nicely washed and coloured, instead of mangling they should be stretched on a hoard, and rubbed on the right side with clean VOL. II. flannel till dry. When mangled they often have a watered appearance. STOMACH-ACHE. See Colic. STONE. See Gravel. STONE PAVEMENT. To clean this, whether in halls or staircases, boil in two quarts of water two cakes of pipe-clay, two table- spoonsful of carbonate of lime, and half a pint each of size and blue-stone water. Having washed the stones with water, and wiped them dry, rub them over with a flannel slightly wetted W'ith this mixture. When dry rub them with a dry flannel and a brush until they present the desired appearance. STOOPING. The habit of stooping is easily got in the youth of both sexes by various means, but we will endeavour to point out an easy and safe method of cure without stopping to enume- rate the causes. That we may be more clearly understood, it may be necessary to premise that the part of the back formed by the ribs is not a flat, but rather a round surface; and, as the shoulder- blades rest on this, they would fall either for- wards or towards the spine were there not some means of keeping them in a proper position. They are most disposed to fall forwards, for, although the collar-bones appear to hold them back, these bones are united to the breast-bone by a movable joint; and, as the weight of the arms operates principally on the anteiior angles of the shoulder-blades, both the collar-bones and the shoulders would fall forwards were it not for the action of several strong muscles which pass from the spine to the shoulder-blade. But these muscles may be destroyed by any contrivance which supersedes their use, which the back- board most certainly does ; for if the shoulder- blades be brought close to the spine by the straps of the collar, and kept constantly so, there can be no use for the muscles which ought to bind them. They must, from want of exercise, waste and become useless, or nearly so, while those on the fore part of the chest, being excited to re- sistance, will increase in power, and whenever the collar is removed will drag the shoulders forward, while the relaxed muscles behind will give way in an equal degree, having been so reduced in tension by want of exercise that they become inert' and yielding. We should therefore recommend, instead of persons who stoop putting on a back-board and bracing back the shoulders, thereby increasing the evil, that they should endeavour to increase the power of the muscles behind by resistance; and we cannot illustrate our meaning better, perhaps, than by suggesting the practice of carrying a weight in front, suspended by a strap from the back of the neck, in the manner of the Turkish Jews who frequent the streets of London, and 2 H[ 466 ] STO STR ■whose erect figures are, in some measure, so many proofs of the correctness of our view of the subject. Au eminent surgeon related the following anecdote, which we conceive may be useful to many of our readers :— He was consulted by a gentleman, one of our first tragedians, as to the best mode of correcting a stoop which he had acquired. The surgeon told him that neither stays nor straps would do him any essential good, and that the only method of succeeding was to recollect to keep his shoulders braced back by a voluntary effort: but the tragedian replied that this he could not do, as his mind was otherwise occupied. The surgeon then told him that he could give him no farther assistance. Shortly after this conversation the actor ordered his tailor to make a coat of the finest kerseymere, so as to fit him very tightly when his shoulders were thrown back. Whenever his shoulders fell for- wai'd he was reminded by a pinch under the arms that his coat cost him six guineas, and that it was made of very fragile materials. Being thus forced, for the sake of his fine coat, to keep his shoulders back, he soon cured himself of the stoop. The surgeon was much obliged to him for the hint, and afterwards, when consulted whether young ladies should wear shoulder- straps, permitted them, on condition that they were made of fine muslin or valuable silk, lor tearing which there should be a forfeit. STOUT. See Porter. STOVE. See Fireplace. STRAIN. See Sprain. ■ STRAMONIUM. See Anodyne. STRANGULATION. See Hanging. STRANGURY. See Urine. STRAWBERRIES: To Preserve. Gather them with their stalks when dry, and lay them singly on a dish; beat and sift over them double their weight of fine sugar; bruise some ripe straw- berries, put them into the jar with the sugar, cover it closely, and let it stand in a kettle of boiling water till the fruit is soft, and the syrup extracted; strain through a piece of muslin into atossing-pan ; boil, skim, and when cold put in the whole strawberries, and set them over the fire till milk-warm ; then take them off, and let them stand till cold; set them on again, and make them warmer; do the same several times till the fruit is clear, but without boiling; put it into jelly glasses with the stalks down- wards, fill up the glasses with the syrup, and cover them closely. Raspberries are done in the same way, observing to every quart of fruit put the same quantity of red-currant juice, with double its weight of refined sugar. White rasp- barries must have white-currant juice. STRAWBERRIES, COMPOTE OF. This is made in the same manner as raspberries, only that the strawberries do not require to be mixed with any other fruit. STRAWBERRY CONSERVE. Take some very ripe fresh strawberries, pick, and crush them through a tammy. For every dessert- spoonful of juice allow 6 ozs. of sugar , boil this to grande pevle, take it off the fire, and pour in the juice; stir them together with a silver spoon until the conserve begins to whiten and dry, and then put it into moulds or paper cases. If the conserve be too white add a little carmine to the syrup. STRAWBERRY CREAM. Put 6 ozs. of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, pulp it through a sieve, add to it the juice of a lemon, ajid when no more froth will rise put the cream into a dish, or into glasses. Place the froth upon it well drained. STRAWBERRY FRITTERS. Make a paste with flour, a spoonful of sweet oil, chopped lemon-peel, whites of eggs beaten Tip, and a sufficient quantity of white wine to make it pretty soft, and just ready to drop from a spoon ; mix some large strawberries in it, and drop some of the mixtui-e, about the size of a nutmeg, in the hot fritters. When done take them out carefully, drain them on a sieve, and glaze them with sugar. STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. Take a pint of strawberries, pick them from the stalks, and pass them through a sieve with a wooden spoon; add 4 ozs. of powder sugar and a pint of cream, and freeze. STRAWBERRY JAM. Gather the scarlet strawberries when perfectly ripe, bruise them well, and add the juice of other strawberries; take an equal weight of lump sugar, pound and sift it, stir it thoroughly into the fruit, and set it on a slow fire; boil it twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it rises ; pour it into glasses or jars, and when cold tie them down. STRAWBERRY SHERBET. Take 14 ozs. of picked strawberries, crush them in a mortar, and then add to them a quart of water; pour this into a basin, with a tea-spoonful of lemon aciH and the same of orange-flower water, and leave the mixture two or three hours. Put 18 ozs. of fine sugar into another basin, cover it with a large cloth, through which pour the strawberry juice, and squeeze the cloth to extract as much as possible from it. When the sugar is entirely dissolved run the whole through a jelly bag until perfectly clear, and then finish as usual. STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE, PARISIAN. Take a basket of very fine strawberries, pick and crush them, and rub them through a sieve ; whisk the whites of eighteen eggs to a firm froth, to which add Ijlb. of powder sugar, andSTR [ 467 ] STU otir them together as lightly as possible ; then mix them with the strawberries, pour the whole into a croustade, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. When done glaze it and serve. STRAWBERRY TART. Pick and put into a basin two quarts of the best scai-let straw- berries, and then add to them half a pint of thick clarified sugar and the same quantity of Madeira, with the juice of two or three lemons ; mix these well together without breaking the strawberries, and put them into a puff paste previously baked. Be careful to keep them very cool. STRYCHNIA is produced from the seed, usually called " a nut," of the Strychnos nux- voniica. It is a native of the coast of Coro- raandel, Bengal, Ceylon, Malabar, and many other parts of the east. It is a middle-sized tree, covered with a smooth ash-grey bark. The ■wood is white, hard, close-grained, and exceed- ingly bitter, and particularly that of the root, which is used by the natives to cure intermittent fevers and the bite of venomous snakes. The fruit is the size of a small orange, with a smooth hard shell, of a beautiful orange colour when ripe, filled with white gelatinous pulp, which is perfectly harmless, and is greedily eaten by birds. The seeds imbedded in the pulp are like a thick round lozenge, about the size of a shilling, whitish, hard, and homy, and in them the active principle is contained. They are used in the distillation of the spirits of the countries where they grow, to render them more intoxicating. The bark is that which is known in Europe as false angostura hark. The seed, called mix vomica, in very small doses often repeated, is stimulant and tonic, diuretic, diaphoretic, and laxative. It has long been employed in India, and was known as a medicine to the Arabian physicians. It has been recommendii in Europe as an antidote to the plague, as a remedy in inter- mittents, dyspepsia, dysentery, diarrhoea of debility, worms, hysteria, rheumatism, and hydrophobia. When the seed or strychnia is taken in large doses it produces the most fearful consequences. First, agitation and trembling, succeeded by stiffness and twitching of the limbs; these go on increasing, and at length comes a violent fit of spasm, in which the head is bent back and the spine stiffened, the legs extended and rigid, and the respiration checked by the fixing of the chest. Then comes a calm, during which the senses ai"e entire and unnaturally acute, to be succeeded by another and successive spasms more violent than the last, and then death ensues by suffocation. Nux vomica has been analysed, and found to contain two alkaline principles—strychnia, or strychnine, and brucia, or brucine, united with a peculiar acid called igasuric or strychnic acid. Strychnia is in the form of minute four-sided prisms, and is so poisonous tljat half a grain destroys a rabbit in five minutes in violent paroxysms of tetanus. Dr. Christison has killed a dog in two minutes with one-sixth part of a grain injected into the chest; and he has seen a wild boar killed in the same manner with the third of a grain in ten minutes. Brucia is in scaly crystals resembling talc flakes. It is obtained from the bark, and has 'the same action as strychnia, but with less intensity, strychnia being twelve-fold more powerful than brucia. For remedies see Potsoxs STUFFING FOR BOILED TURKEY. To the Stuffing for Hare add the soft part of twelve oysters, anchovy, or a little grated ham or tongue. Pork sausage meat is some- times used for stuffing turkeys and fowls; or it may be fried, and sent up as garnish. STUFFING FOR GOOSE OR DUCK. Chop about 2 ozs. of onions very finely, 1 oz. of green sage leaves, 4 ozs. of bread crumbs, the yolk and white of a boiled egg, and a little pepper, to which may be added a minced apple. STUFFING FOR HARE. Take 2 ozs. of beef suet chopped finely, 3 ozs. of bread crumbs, 1 drachm of parsley, ^ drachm of shallot, ] drachm of marjoram, thyme, or winter savory, the same quantity of grated lemon-peel, i drachm of nutmeg, and as much pepper and salt; mix the whole with the yolk and white of an egg till it is thoroughly stiff, put it into the hare, and sew it up. If the liver is sound it may be parboiled, minced finely, and added to these ingredients. STUFFINGS FOR FORCEMEAT. The poignancy of forcemeat should be in proportion to the savouriness of the dish to which it is an accompaniment, and therefore it follows that the variety of combinations is as great as in soups, gravies, or sauces. One general rule, however, to be observed in the composition of forcemeat is, that no one flavour be suffered to predominate over the rest. In making this elegant article great care must be taken to give it a due consistence, so that the balls should be of the moderate size of nutmegs, and may be cut easily without being hard or heavy. If they are for brown sauce flour and fry them; if for white, put them into boiling water, and let them boil for three minutes. The following lists of the materials for the composition of forcemeats will be a good general guide to the cook in the direction of her choice and appropriation:— The animal substances are parboiled sweet- breads, tongues, veal minced and pounded,STY STU [ 408 ] potted meats, calf's udder or brains, veal suet or marrow, mutton, beef, cold fowl, scraped ham, fat bacon, yolks of bard eggs, oysters, and anchovy. The vegetable ingredients' are thyme, mar- joram, summer and winter savory, sage, tarragon, basil, chervil, bay leaves, trufSes, and morels (all these may be either fresh and green, or in dried powder); onions, leeks, garlic, shallots, parsley, spinach, and mashed potatoes ; besides ■which there are flour, bread crumbs, black and ■white pepper, allspice, Cayenne pepper, mace, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, cloves, and mush- room powder. The liquids are ml¥at gravy, lemon juice, syrup of lemon, essence of anchovy, wine, and catsup. STURGEON. Of a good sturgeon the flesh should be white, the gristles and veins blue, the grain even, with a few blue veins, and tlie skin tender. STURGEON, BAKED. Clean and take the skin from a small sturgeon, and split it along the belly without separating it; lay it in a large baking dish, season it with salt, pepper, pounded sweet herbs, and moisten it with lemon juice, oil, and a bottle of white wine ; put it in the oven, and baste it frequently; make it a nice colour, and serve it with its own gravy. STURGEON, FRICANDEAU OF. Take a good-sized piece of sturgeon, and having re- moved the skin and gristle, beat it lightly with the blade of the chopper, and lard it with bacon; line a stewpan with some thin slices of ham, veal, some carrots, onions, and sweet herbs; moisten with white wine, cover it with a buttered paper, and stew it. When done take out the fish, strain the liquor, clear off the fat, add thi"ee spoonsful of Espagnole, reduce your sauce, pour it into a dish, and serve the sturgeon on it. STURGEON, GRILLADE OF. Boil a slice of sturgeon in a small saucepan, with some slices of bacon, bay leaves, salt, pepper, basil, and white wdne. When done let it cool, cover it with bread crumbs, broil the slice, and serve with sauce piqnante. STURGEON, MATELOTE OF. Cut a large slice of sturgeon into various pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and do them on both sides over a gentle fire; then take them out, and put into the pan a glass of red wine, a pinch of flour, and some sweet herbs shred small; in a quarter of an hour replace the fisli for a minute, an^l serve the whole together on fried bread. STURGEON, ROASTED. Take a large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small one; clean and skin it properly, lard it with eels and an- chovies, and marinate it in a white marinade. Fasten it to the spit and roast it, basting fre- quently with the marinade strained. Let the fish be a nice colour, and serve with a pepper sauce. STURGEON IN SAVOURY JELLY. Put a little aspic or savoury jelly into the bottom of a mould, and as soon as it is set cut some cold sturgeon in whatever form you please, and place it on the jelly according to your own taste, adding jelly sufBcient to cover the sturgeon. When it is thoroughly set put it in more jelly, so as to fill about an inch of the mould; when that is set place some more sturgeon, and so proceed till the mould is full. When it is to be turned out to serve dip it in warm water the same as for all iellies. STURGEON SOUP. Take a fine piece of sturgeon, and cut off the fins and the gristly bone inside, with the skin; put it all to stew, with a bunch of sweet herbs, cari-ots, allspice, onions, peppercorns, and a little salt, and let it stew till of a nice brown colour; then fill it up with veal consomme, half a bottle of Madeira, and a quarter of a pint of good vinegar. When well boiled and skimmed put in a large piece of sturgeon to stew very gently till it is thoroughly done; then take it out to cool, strain the liquor through a lawn sieve, thicken it with ham as directed for Turtle Soup, and boil it in the same manner. When ready cut the stur- geon into small squares, and put them into the soup, with a few stewed oysters and mushrooms; let it boil gently for a few minutes, skim it, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, add a very small quantity of Cayenne, and serve. If not sufficiently strong reduce a little beef stock, and add to it. Herbs may be added if thought proper. STUTTERING. See Impediment of Speech. STYPTICS are really astringents, but is a name usually giv^i to such applications as check an effusion of blood. See Bleeding at THE Nose. "Various vegetables may be advantageously employed as external styptics, such as the agaric, puff-ball, &c.; but there are certain preparations of greater efficacy, the principal of which is the compound powder of alum. It consists of 1^ oz. of alum and 3 drachms of gum kino, which are finely pulvei'ised and incor- porated. One of the most successful styptics, however, is prepared by mixing one part of the caustic volatile alkali with three parts of water. If this fluid be applied to a fresh wound it effectually checks the flowing of blood both from large and small vessels. The following styptic powder has proved un- commonly efficacious in suppressing profuse uterine hemorrhages, namely, Peruvian bark, S drachms ; cinnamon, 1 drachm ; bloodstoneSUD SUF [ 409 ] (Lapis licematites), I drachm ; and loaf sugar, •' 2 draohms. Let these ingredients he reduced to a fine powder, a tea-spoonful of which is to be taken every hour, or oftener, in camomile or bahn tea. SUDOPJFICS. (&<3 Perspiration.) Sudo- I'ifics are medicines augmenting perspiration. They are occasionally used in colds accompanied with more or less of fever, and in inflammatory diseases. Should perspiration in these affections spon- taneously ai'ise, an additional covering to the bed will have a tendency to promote it, as will also vinegar whey, or whey formed with lemons, oranges, or supertartrate of potash (cream of tartar). It is made by boiling with milk and water a lemon or orange sliced, or a little super- tartrate of potash. Wheys should be drunk warm. They should also be taken copiously as circumstances may require. As combined with a mixture of wine, and thus abundantly administered, they may be regarded as of hurtful tendency. Antimonial powder, tartarised antimony (emetic tartar), and that composition known by the name of James's powder, may, when necessary, be had recourse to. As powerful agents the dose of each of the ingredients will require to be skil- fully adjusted. SoDOBiFic Draughts. Take of carbonate of potash 1 scruple; citric acid, as much as is sufficient to saturate the carbonate of potash; tile effervescence ceasing, add distilled water, 1 fluid oz.; syrup, 2 fluid drachms. Make a saline draught. It should be taken every four hours. To render this more effectual, from J grain to i grain of tartarised antimony, or 13 minims of solution of tartarised antimony, may be added to each draught. Or, take of solution of acetate of ammonia i fluid oz.; distilled water, 1 fluid oz.; solution of tartarised antimony, 12 minims ; syrup of lemon, 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught. To be given as occasioir requires. 1 SuDOEiFio Powders. Take of antimonial powder 5 grains. It may be taken at night in any proper fluid, or as circumstances may re- quire. Or, take of tartarised antimony from J grain to \ grain; carbonate of lime, ^ scruple. Make a powder. It may be given every four hours. SUET: To Keep for Twelve Months. Choose the firmest part, and pick it free from skin and veins ; put it into a saucepan, and set it at some distance from the fire, in order that the suet may melt without frying, or it will taste disagi'eeable. When it is melted pour it into a pan of cold water, and as soon as it has caked quite hard wipe it, and store in a dry, but not a hot place. When you wish to use it scrape it fine, and it will make a nice crust either with or without butter. SUET DUMPLINGS. This batter should be made the same as for Suet PuddtiNG (2), but much thicker. Let your cloth be wetted, shake it all over with flour, and tie up in several parts of the cloth, as much as it will hold, two or three spoonsful of batter. Or you may make the batter as usual, and put it in tea-cups well buttered. Tie them in cloths, and boil an hour. Another way of making suet dumplings is to boil them without a cloth in a pot with beef or mutton. In this case no eggs are used, but the dumplings are rolled in flour. Six ounces of currants may be added : a little sugar is also an improvement. SUET PUDDING (1). Chop i lb. of beef suet very fine, add to it the same quantity of flour, two eggs beaten, a little salt, and a small quantity of pounded and sifted ginger : mix all these together well with milk to a moderate consistence. It may be either baked or boiled. SUET PUDDING (2). Chop fine 6 ozs. of suet, put it into a basin, with the same quantity of flour, 2 ozs. of bread crumbs, and a tea- spoonful of salt; stir these well together, beat two eggs on a plate, add six spootisful of milk, put it gradually into the basin, and mingle the contents thoroughly; divide the mass into six dumplings, tie them in separate cloths that have been floured, and boil them just an hour. These will eat well the next day fried. The entire composition will also make a good pud- ding boiled two hours in a saucepan, with the addition of another egg, some more milk, and 2 ozs. of suet. SUFFOCATION. To the class of gases which, when breathed, prove injurious to man, belong the carbonic acid gas, the fumes of chai-- coal, and the several aeriform combinations of hydrogen and azote. The symptoms which they induce are headache, confusion of vision, ring- ing in the ears, difficulty of respii'ation, palpita- tions, and insensibility, as if the nervous energy were completely extinct. In general the face is pale, and not unfrequently convulsions are present. If the person be plethoric apoplexy may be induced. Carbonic acid gas is the most common cause. It is met with in rooms where charcoal has been burned, and at the bottom of large vats which have stood empty for some time, of wells, and of many natural cavei'ns. It is destitute of smell, and, being specifically heavier than at- mospheric air, always falls to the bottom. Hydrogen gas is met with in coal and metallic mines, and there, like the former, when pui'e, is destitute of smell. But in water-closets, neces- saries, and other parts where animal or vegetableSU G [ 470 ] SUF natters are undergoing decomposition, and in some mineral springs where it is united to sul- phur, it is the chief cause of tlie stench thrown out. When carbonic gas is pure its deleterious effects are almost instantaneous; but when, as is generally the case, it is diluted with at- mospheric air, it may be breathed lor some time with safety. Hydrogen is not so rapid in its effects, inducing a kind of pleasing stupor and tendency to sleep. When mixed with oxygen it may be breathed for some time without danger. A very dangerous state may be brought on by breathing the air of a close room impreg- nated with the aroma of flowers, or deteriorated by a great number of persons breathing it. A person in a state of swooning from any of these causes ought to be removed, in the inrst place, into the open air ; and his clothes being taken off, he should be placed on his back, with his head somewhat elevated. The coldness of the atmosphere, even in winter, ought to form no obstacle, nothing being more pernicious in such a case than placing the patient on a warm bed in a warm room. If the patient can swallow, cold acidulated liquids, such as vinegar and water or lemonade, should be plentifully given. The face is to be bathed with Hungary water or vinegar, and the whole body is to be sponged with vinegar and water, and rubbed with cloths dipped in any spirituous liquid. Friction with the flesh-brush may afterwards be employed. Aromatic vinegar or any strong-smelling stimu- lant may be held under the nose. Advantage may also be derived from clysters of vinegar; but the most important part of the process is inflation of the lungs. This may be done either with a pair of common bellows, or, what is better, with a double bellows, employing oxygen in place of atmospheric air. Electricity has been considei'ed as peculiarly adapted to this variety of asphyxia. Bleeding has been recommended when the countenance is livid, the lips swollen, and the eyes protrud- ing ; but probably, if performed, no blood would flow. When symptoms of recovery make their ap- pearance the person is to be placed in a warm bed, the windows of the room being opened. A spoonful of generous wine may be given from time to time. For some time he ought not to be left to himself. SUFFOLK DUMPLINGS. Make a light dough with yeast as-if for bread, using milk instead of water, and adding thereto a little salt: let it rise an hour before the fire. Twenty minutes previously to serving get ready a stewpan of boiling water, and make the dough into balls, each the size of an egg; let them boil twenty minutes, and to judge when done enough stick a fork into one, and if the prongs come out clear take them up. They should be eaten with meat, sugar and butter, or salt. SUGAR. At present almost the whole of our sugar is produced in the East and West Indies. The plant from which it is produced is the Saccharum officinarum, or sugar-cane. Other plants, indeed, contain it, but not in such abundance. In North America, however, it is extracted from the Acer saccharinum, or sugar maple, but in too small quantity for exporta- tion. During the war between Bonaparte and Great Britain the extraction of sugar from the beet- root was introduced into France. This manu- facture still continues. In the year 1827 the quantity of beet sugar made in France was 2,650,000 lbs. The method of making sugar practised in Hindostan is exceedingly simple, and requires little or no expensive apparatus. The soil chosen is a rich vegetable mould, in such a situation that it can be easily watered from the river. About the end of May, when the soil is reduced to the state of soft mud either by rain or artificial watei'ing, slips of the cane contain- ing one or two joints are planted in rows about four feet from row to row, and eighteen inches asunder in the rows. When they have grown to the height of two or three inches the earth round them is loosened. In August small trenches are cut through the field to drain off the rain if the season prove too rainy, and to water the plants if the season prove too dry. From three to six canes spring from each slip set. When they are about three feet high the lower leaves of each cane are cai-efully wrapped round it, and then the whole belonging to each slip are tied to a strong bamboo, eight or ten feet high, stuck into the earth in the middle of them. They ai'e cut in January or February, about nine months after the time of planting. They have now reached the height of eight or ten feet, and the naked cane is from an inch to an inch and a quarter in diameter. They have not flowered. When this happens the juice loses much of its sweetness. The newly cut canes are put through the rollers of a mill, and their juice collected into large iron boilers, where it is boiled down smartly to a proper con- sistence, the scum being carelessly taken off. The fire is then withdrawn, and the liquid by cooling becomes thick. It is then stirred about with sticks till it begins to take the form of sugar, when it is put in mats made of the leaves of the palmira tree [Borassus flabellifonnis), and the stirring continued till it is cold. This pro- cess yields a raxo or pondered sugar; but it is clammy, and apt to attract moisture from theSUG SUG [ 471 ] atmosphere, because the acids in the juice have not been removed. By the addition of quick- lime to the juice, in the proportion of about three spoonsful to every fourteen gallons, the sugar loses this property. The impure sugar prepared by this method is called jaganj. Every three quarts of juice, or every 6 lbs., yield about 1 lb. of sugar. From an acre of ground about 5000 lbs. of sugar, and conse- quently about 30,000 lbs. of juice, are obtained. When pure siigar candy is wanted the sugar thus obtained is dissolved in water again, and the same process of boiling with milk and scumming is repeated. When poured into pots thin slices of bamboo are introduced, which prevent it from running into lumps, and induce it to form large crystals. According to Dr. Higgins, who went to the West Indies on purpose to examine the manu- facture of sugar, the juice of the sugar-cane con- tains a great number of bodies; but the most important of them (not reckoning sugar and water) are those which he calls herbaceous matter and melasses acid. Concerning the nature of these substances nothing very precise is known; but the great object of the manufacturer is to remove them, as they impede the crystallising of the sugar. The herbaceous matter is partly held in solution by the water, partly by the carbonic acid. When the liquid is heated to 140° the carbonic acid is dis- engaged, and the herbaceous matter separates in flakes of an olive green colour. This pro- duces the scum. Lime facilitates the separa- tion, partly by abstracting the carbonic acid, and partly by forming an insoluble compound with the herbaceous matter. Hence its use in the first part of the process. It is called temper by the manufacturers. Too much is injurious in the first part of the process. It redissolves the herbaceous matter, or at least deepens the colour of the syrup. The nature of the melasses acid is not better known than that of the herbaceous matter; but it combines with the sugar, and forms an un- crystallisable syrup. Lime is necessary in the last part of the process to remove this acid : it combines with it, and the compound runs off with the syrup during the graining of the sugar. This acid is no doubt that which exists in un- ripe canes, and the quantity of it of course diminishes as the cane improves in quality. The raw sugar from the East and West Indies is usually refined and made into loaf sugar in this country by the process introduced by Mr. Howard. The raw sugar is dissolved in water, clarified by animal charcoal, and boiled down to the requisite consistency in vacuo at a temperature of about 150°. The vacuum is kept up by means of an air pump, wrought all the time by a steam engine ; and the boilers aro globular pans made air-tight, and attached to the air pump. By this ingenious contrivance the whole sugar is obtained without any loss, and freed from all its impurities.—[Thomson.) Sugar is a crystallisable substance, almost as extensively distributed in organised nature as gum, with which it almost coincides in elementary composition. It differs from it in possessing a very agreeable characteristic taste, in being soluble in alcohol as well as in water, and in being susceptible of fermenting whfen it is dis- solved in water, and mixed with glutinous or albuminous substances. The hitherto un- ascertained circumstances which sometimes prevent the crystallisation of the sacchai-ine portion of a juice are also opposed to its fer- mentation. Nitric acid changes sugar into oxalic, but not into mucic acid. Sugar is not changed by exposure to diy or even to humid air. When dissolved in water it is decomposed by the action of air and light, and gives origin to various cryptogamic products, such as mould. When exposed to heat it melts and undergoes decomposition, giving out a peculiar smell (of caramel). When a solution of it is concentrated, exposure for some time to the temperature of 912° is sufficient to render it uncrystallisable. An alkali also deprives it of the property of crystallising, but in this case the addition of an acid restores it. When two pieces of sugar are rubbed together phosphorescent flashes are given out, which are easily perceived in a dark place.— (Baspail.) Besides the sugar of the cane there are various other kinds, as that of grapes, honey, starch, manna, milk, and glycerin, obtained from oils and fatty matters. SUGAE.: To Boil. Provide a copper or bell-metal pan not tinned. A convenient pro- portion is a glass of water to 1 lb. of sugar, which put into the pan, and set over a brisk fire. Almost as soon as the sugar begins to boil it is called the petite lisse. This stage may be known by taking a little of the syrup on the forefinger, and dropping it on the left thumb- nail, when the sugar will spread and remain flat if it he petite lisse. Another mode of judging of the strength of the syrup is to take some on the forefinger, place it on the thumb-nail, and gently attempt to draw out the sugar, when the strength of the thread will be according to tho time the sugar has been boiled. But there is a more certain means of know- ing the state of boiling by the saccharometer, to be bought at any optician's. It consists of a small tin tube, atid a rod graduated and marked by degrees, and having a weight at the lowerSUM SUG [ 472 ] end. To use this simple saccliarometer, nearly fill the tube with s^'rap, iuto which plunge the rod, and according to the degree it marks on the syrup it denotes the stage. Tlius the petite lisse is mai'ked 29°, the grande lisse 32°, and so on. To the grande lisse succeeds the petite perle (33°), when, on dipping the skimmer into the syrup and letting it trickle, you perceive small pearls in the drops of sugar. At the grande perle (34°) it assumes still greater consistence in the fingers, and the pearls are stronger and more numerous. Ki\\\Q petite jilume or souffle {^7°), if you take up some syrup witli the skimmer and blow through it, some drops will escape on the other side. At the grande plume (38°) the drops increase in number and firmness. In pressing the syrup between the fingers it should so cement them together as to cause a perceptible report in detaching them. At the petit houlet (40°) dip your finger into cold water, take up some syrup, and then dip your finger again iuto the water, when the syrup I'eceives the con- sistence of glue. The gros boulet is still firmer; when it breaks it is the petite casse; when more brittle still, the grande casse, which makes a noise when thrown into water. Next it reaches the caramel blond, and next the caramel noir. The instrument will not mark more than 40°, else it would give 48° to the caramel. The whole of this operation must be conducted over a brisk fire. SUGAR: To Clabify. See Clariftixg Sugar. SUGAR, COARSE BROWN: To Clarify. Suppose you take 50 lbs., put it in a pan that will hold a third more thart the required quantity, and pour in twenty pints of water, but first well mixed with five whites of eggs; take 5 lbs. of small branch charcoal, finely pounded and mixed in the pan over the fire, and let it boil: it will look as black as ink. If it rises too fast add a little cold water, skim, and then strain it through a bag: it must repeatedly be returned till it comes out as clear as clarified loaf sugar. Sugar prepared according to the above method is greatly preferred to sugar in its raw state in making iellies, syrups, &c. SUGAR, COLOURING. An important thing to be attended to in confectionery pi'eparations is colouring; and here families ought to be on their guard against the nefarious practices too common among pastrycooks, of using chromate of lead, copper, verdigris, rose pink, vermilion, powder blue, with similar poisonous and un- wholesome ingredients, to give a fine appearance to the articles of luxury sold in their shops. See Colouring. SUGAR, DEVICES IN. Steep some gum dragon iu rose water, and with a little double- refined sugar make it into a paste; colour it to your fancy, and make it into such shapes as you please. SUGAR A LA NEIGE. Blanch I lb. of bitter almonds, pound them to a very fine paste in a marble mortar with the whites of four eggs, and when perfectly smooth add 1 lb. of the best lump sugar in powder, and five or six more whites of eggs; stir all well together until of such consistence that it may be kneaded without adhering to the hands ; divide this preparation into two parts, one of which tinge of a red colour, either with bole armenia or cochineal, and perfume it with essential oil of roses or bergamot; leave the other portion of the paste white, but flavour it as follows:—Grate the rinds of two fine sound lemons on a small piece of sugar, sci'ape off the surface, aud when pounded in a small mortar work it into the uncoloured portion of paste ; then roll it out about half an inch in thickness, having pre- viously sprinkled the slab with powder sugar; cut it with a tin paste cutter about two inches in diameter, arrange the pieces on white papei", which place on a baking tin, and put them into a moderate oven for about three quarters of a7i hour. Proceed in the same manner with the coloured paste. When cold detach them from the paper. SUGAR PASTE. Take 1 lb. of flour, ilb. of sugar, \ lb. of butter, a little salt, and an egg: mix the whole together with a little water. This paste may be used for any second-course dish. SUGAR VINEGAR. Fill a copper with the water required, and to every gallon add 1 lb. of good moist sugar: take care that it is pi'operly weighed. Do not trust to any one till the sugar is properly dissolved: boil and skim it well. When of a proper heat put in toast with yeast paste, and a bit of thin canvas over the bungliole, or a bit of pricked paper; put it in the sun, or in a warm corner of the kitchen: it will be strong vinegar in three months. Bottle and cork it well. If the same cask or bottle is filled when the vinegar is bottled the next vinegar will make much sooner. SULPHUR. See Brimstone. SUMACH. The family of the Bhuses, or sumachs, are marked by various qualities. Mr. Hogg thus notices them in his valuable work entitled " The Vegetable Kingdom." The bark of Rhus cotinus, the wild olive, or Venice sumach, is aromatic aud astringent, and is enumerated as one of the substitutes for Peruvian bark. The wood is much used in Greece for dyeing wool of a beautiful yellow colour, aud constitutes what is called young fustic. The whole plant is used in Italy for tanning, and is there called scotino. R. me- topium yields a great quantity of gummy resin,[ 473 J SUM SUM winch, when pure, is of a yellow colour, and after a short time acquires a hard, brittle consist- ence ; and this it is which is considered by some the doctor s gum or liog gum of Jamaica. This gum is in daily use for strengthening plasters. Dissolved in water it is an easy purgative, and thought to be extraordinarily diuretic. The fruit of R. glabra is used for dyeing red, and is perfectly harmless, being eaten by children in the United States with impunity. This fruit is astringent and cooling, and an infusion of them has been recommended as a cooling drink in fevers, and as a gargle in ulceration and inflam- mation of the throat. They are very sour and astringent, but not unpleasant. This sourness is owing to the large quantity of malic acid contained in the pubescence which covers their surface, as, when it is washed away by warm water, the berries are wholly free from acidity; and in such quantity is the acid obtained that it has been recommended to procure it from this source. On cutting the stem a yellow juice comes out between the bark and the wood. The bark, boiled with the fruit, affords a black, ink-like tincture; and both the bark and leaves are astringent, and may be used in tanniiig leather and in dyeing. Excrescences are pro- duced under the leaves, resembling galls in character, and contain large quantities of tannic and gallic acids. These have been used, and found to be even preferable to oak-galls. U. pumila is the most poisonous of the whole genus; and it is related that Lyon, the American botanical collector, was poisoned by it all over his body when merely collecting the seeds, and that he was lamed for a considerable time. R. succedanea, a native of Japan, produces a fleshy fruit about the size of a cherry. This contains a nut, from which, when warm, an oil is ex- pressed, that acquires the consistence of suet, and serves for making candles. Thunberg states that the same oil is obtained from R. vernix. The trunk yields a varnish, but in small quantity, and therefore not worth collecting. The Japan varnish tree (Rhus vernicifera) is a native of Japan and Nepaul, and grows abundantly in the former country, where it furnishes the varnish with which the celebrated Japan lacker-work is made. This varnish, which oozes out of the tree on its being wounded, is procured from stems that are three years old, and is received in some pi'oper vessel. When first collected it is of a lightish colour, and of the consistence of cream, but grows thicker and black on exposure to the air. It is so transparent that, when it is laid pure and unmixed upon boxes and other pieces of furniture, every vein of the wood may be clearly seen; and for this purpose they make choice of the finest sorts of firs and cedars. A dark ground is generally spread underneath the varnish, which causes it to reflect like a looking-glass, and the deposit which is caught in the trough under a grindstone is frequently made use of to form the ground. At other times ground charcoal is used, and occasionally some darker red substance is mixed with the varnish, and sometimes leaf-gold ground very fine, when it is called salplicat. This lackered work is afterwards, for the most part, em- bellished with gold and silver flowers and figures, laid on upon the varnish; but they are very liable to wear off in time. The varnish, which hardens to a transparent and difficultly soluble gum, will not endure any blows, but flies and cracks almost like glass, though it can stand boiling water without receiving any damage. With this they varnish over the posts of their doors, windows, and articles of furniture. It is much superior to Chinese and Siamese varnish. The expressed oil of the seeds becomes as hard as tallow, and with it the Japanese make their candles. R. venenaUi is the swamp sumach, or poison wood of America. It grows abundantly in swamps and low grounds from Canada to Carolina, and is by some supposed to be identical with the pre- ceding species. This also yields a white juice, which exudes between the wood and the bark when the tree is wounded. It becomes per- manently black on exposure to the air, and may be made to afford a brilliant, glossy, durable varnish by boiling it sufficiently before applying it. The juice of the tree stains cloth black, and is with difficulty obliterated with frequent washings. The whole of this shrub is in the highest degree poisonous, but its effects are various on different individuals, and some may even handle it with perfect impunity. la those who come within its influence the whole body is sometimes enormously swollen, and the patient for many days scarcely able to move; but the complaint almost always subsides sponta-. neously without destroying life. The poison is communicated by touching or smelling any portion of it. In forty-eight hours inflammation appears on the skin in large blotches, principally on the extremities and the glandulous parts of the body; soon after pustules arise in the inflamed parts, and fill with watery matter, attended with burning and itching. In two or three days the eruptions suppurate, after which tho inflammation subsides, and the ulcers heal in a short time. R. perniciosa and juglandifoiia possess the same poisonous properties. Rhus coriaria is said to furnish the bark with which Turkey leather is tanned. It is a native of the whole of the south of Europe, and its seeds and leaves are used in medicine as restringent, styptic, tonic, and cooling. ThoSUM SUN peasants of Podolia, the Ukraine, and other parts of Kussia use it both internally and externally in decoction, along with Genista tinctoria, as a preventive of hydrophobia. The Tripoli merchants sell the seeds at Aleppo, and they are in common use there to induce an appetite. The taste of the fruit is very acid and astringent, and does not possess the dan- gerous qualities for which some of this genus are so remarkable. From the berries of R. semialata the Chinese extract an oil by bruising them, and boiling them in water: they use it as a varnish, which is beautiful, but does not keep its polish. The leaves of R. copallina are used as tobacco by the Indians of the Missis- sippi and Missouri. This yields a resin which was long considered to be the true gum copal, and hence Linnsus applied to it the specific name of copallina. " Copal " is a general term used in Mexico for a gum; but as this tree does not grow in Mexico, and as the resins yielded by those species of Rhus which do gi'ow in that country have been ascertained to differ entirely from the copal of commerce, it may be concluded that the copal is not produced by this plant. R. radicans is a climbing shrub, very abundant in hedges and woods from Canada to Georgia. It rises to the tops of the highest trees, throwing out roots all along its stem, which penetrate the bark of the tree against which it grows. It is called poison vine in America. When the stem is cut it emits a pale brown sap of a disagreeable scent, and so acrid that letters or marks made upon linen cannot be removed, but gi'ow blacker the more they are washed. Like R. venenata it is poisonous to some persons, though not to others, but in a less degree. Kalm relates of two sisters that one could handle the tree with impunity, while the other could not come within three feet of it, or even stand to the windward of it at a greater distance, without feeling its exhalations ; and that although it had not the slightest effect upon him, even when the juice had been squirted into his eyes, the skin of a person's hand which had been covered with it became as hard as a piece of tanned leather a few hours after the application, and ultimately peeled off in scales. R. toxico- dendron, also a native of North America, and there called poison oak, is a shrub from one to three feet high. The juice has the same property of indelibly staining linen as the preceding, and the more it is washed the deeper it becomes. It deepens with age, and does not yield to water or alcohol, either hot or cold, but is dissolved by ether. When the juice first exudes it is milky, but becomes black on exposure to the air. Dr. Alderson, of Hull, used it in four cases of paralysis, in doses of 1 grain or 1 grain three times a day, and in all his patients recovered to a certain degree the use of their limbs. The first symptom of amendment was always an unpleasant feeling of pricking or twitching in the paralytic limbs ; and it acts as a purgative, notwithstanding the torpid state of the bowels of such patients. Rhus typJiina is met with almost over the whole of the United States, and is called Vir- ginian sumach. It is from eight to twenty feet high, and the young branches are covered with a soft, velvet-like down, resembling a young stag's horn both in colour and in texture ; and hence it has been called stag's horn and stag's-horn sumach. It has received the name of vinegar plant, from the double reason of the young plant, when fermented, producing either new or adding to the strength of old vinegai", whilst its ripe berries afford an agreeable acid, which might supply the place, wheji necessary, of citric acid. The powerful astringency of this plant in all its parts recommends it as useful in several of the arts. The ripe berries boiled with alum make a good dye for hats. Every part of the plant may be used as a substitute for oak bark in tanning, especially the white glove leather. It will likewise answer to prepare a dye for black, green, and yellow colours ; and with the sulphate of iron it makes a good ink. The milky juice that flows from the incisions made in the trunk or branches makes, when dried, the basis of a varnish little inferior to the Chinese. Bees are remarkably fond of its flowers, and it is said to afford more honey than any of the flowering shrubs. The natives of America use the dried leaves as tobacco. SUN-BURNED. See Freckles. SUNDERLAND PUDDING. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with the whites of three; add thei'eto five spoonsful of flour and a grated nutmeg, and put the whole into a pint of cream ; butter some small basins, fill them half way, and bake them an hour. When done turn them out, and pour thereon melted butter, wine, and sugar. SUNDIAL. See Meridian Line. SUNFLOWER. The common sunflower (Helianthus annuus), apart from its ornamental character as a conspicuous object in gardens and shrubberies, is also a much more important plant than it is generally supposed to be. In France the leaves are used as forage for cattle, which are said to eat them with great relish and avidity. The stalks malce an excellent fuel, and yield a large quantity of potash after they are burned ; or, if not wanted for that purpose, the ashes may be used as manure by sowing them over the land, or mixing them in the manure heap. In Portugal the seeds ai'e used to make a wholesome andSUP S WE [ ] nutntious bread, and when roasted they form an excellent substitute for coffee. In some parts of the continent a kind of bouilli is made of them, which serves as food for infants. They also yield by expression a fixed oil, little if at all inferior to olive oil, which is used in some parts of Europe both for burning in lamps and for other domestic purposes to which olive oil is applied and for making soaps. As food for poultry they have been found to be very nutri- tious. One acre will produce 50 bushels of seed, yielding 50 gallons of oil, and about 1500 lbs. of oil cake ; and the stems will yield about 10 per cent, of potash. The pith of the sunflower has been recommended by M. Percy for the preparation of moxa, for which it is well adapted by the nitre it contains enabling it to burn without being blown upon. SUPPURATION. This is morbid generation of matter, and one of the results of inflamma- tion. The causes are such as injury of the part and previous disease. It may be known from other affections by the urgency of the inflamma- tion, by the pain of it in part subsiding on the formation of matter, and by the fluctuation which becomes perceptible. After suppuration has taken place, if the tumour be external, and a fluctuation is per- ceived, so soon as the thinness of the skin and the appearance justify the step, the tumour should be opened in the most depending part. The incision should be proportioned to its size. The sore may afterwards be dressed with dry lint and some suitable ointment. When the tumour is of considerable magni- tude a free discharge of matter will not always effect a cure, as another collection will be apt to form in the same cyst. To prevent this the cavity of it must be destroyed by exciting a cer- tain degree of inflammation, which will seldom fail to effect an ultimate concretion of sides. In such a lai'ge collection of matter as that of lumbar abscess the opening must be small, and so managed as to heal with the first intention. See Abscess and Inflammatton. SURFEIT WATER. Take scurvy grass, brook-lime, water-cresses, Roman wormwood, rue, mint, balm, sage, and olives, of each one handful; poppies, if fresh, half a peck, but if they be dry only half that quantity; cochineal and saffron, of each 1 drachm; aniseeds, caraway seeds, coriander seeds, and cardamom seeds, of each 1 oz.; scraped liquorice, 2 ozs.; split figs, raisins of the sun stoned, of each 1 lb. ; juniper berries, mace, sweet fennel seeds (all bruised), and beaten nutmeg, of each I oz.; a few flowers of rosemary, marigold, and sage. Put all these into a large stone jar, and put to them three gallons of French brandy ; cover it closely, and let it stand near the fire for three weeks; stir it three times a week, and be sure to keep it closely stopped, and then strain it off. Bottle the liquor, and pour on the ingredients a bottle more of French brandy; let it stand a week, stirring it once a day ; then distil it in a cold still, and you will have a fine white surfeit water. Though this is best made in summer, yet you may make it at any time of the year if you live in London, because the ingredients are always to be had there either green or dry. SWAN'S DOWN. See Feathers. SWEEPING. All apartments, whether car- peted or not, should be swept with tea leaves. Many persons object to have them used, on account of their liability to stain when they are accidentally trodden on. This, however, is an evil so easily remedied that it is a pity so neat and cleanly a practice should be omitted in consequence of this trifling objection. Let the leaves be put in a pan of water for a few hours, and squeezed dry just before they are going to be made use of, and they will be found to have lost all colour, and may be safely applied to the most delicate carpet. Some mistresses will only allow the floors to be sprinkled with plain water. This plan in- evitably leaves marks on the boards, in conse- quence of the smears which the dust causes by being swept over the damped spots. Others, again, object to any method of laying the dust, so that clouds are daily raised, which settle again, to be on every morrow renewed. Where the chief beverage of the family is coffee, in large towns leaves are with difficulty procured for this tidy purpose; but the greengrocer for the merest trifle will supply a handful of any species of small leaves, such as ash, elm, balm, mint, &c., which answer as well as tea leaves when they have been steeped and squeezed dry. SWEETBREAD PIE. Lay a puff paste half an inch thick at the bottom of a deep dish, and put forcemeat round the sides ; cut three or four sweetbi'eads in pieces according to the size of the pie, lay them in first, then some arti- choke bottoms, each cut into four parts, then some cocks' combs, a few truffles, morels, as- pai-agus tops, mushrooms, yolks of eggs boiled hard, forcemeat balls, and season with pepper and salt; nearly fill the pie with water, put on the lid, and let it bake for two hours. Thicken some veal gravy with a little cream and flour, and pour it into the pie when baked. SWEETBREAD, SMALL CASES OF SCALLOPS OF. Blanch and parboil some sweetbreads ; cut them into small scallops ; then chop separately and finely half a pint of mush- rooms, a little parsley, and four or five shallots ; add a little fat bacon rasped, and a piece of fresh butter; season the scallops with pepper, salt, and a little mace, and stew the whole togetherSWE [ ^70 ] SWE over a slow fire. When done drain off tlie fat, and place the scallops in small paper cases which have heen fried in olive oil; cover them with plenty of finely chopped herhs, and strew over them fried bread crumbs ; lay the paper cases for a moment in the oven, and before serving pour into each a little rich gravy and lemon juice. SWEETBREADS must always be blanched before they are coolied, to disgorge and harden them to bear larding. When they are cool lard them for braising or roasting with bacon, parsley, ham, truffles, morels, and mushroom nails. The French line the stewpans entirely: they may be very well done with care by only lining the bottom. Put in carrots, onions, and parsley; lay the sweetbreads over, and add a little stock. If cooked in an earthen vessel squeeze lemon juice over them, which will malce them very white; cover with slices of bacon and double buttered paper, cover closely, and set it upon a hot hearth, with fire over sufficient to give a fine colour: they will take forty minutes. Lay each sweetbread upon a slice of white fried bread, pouring over them mushroom sauce. Glaze or not. SWEETBREADS : To Boil. Parboil them, rub them with butter, broil them over a slow fire, turn them frequently, and baste them now and then by putting them upon a plate, kept warm by the fire with butter in it. SWEETBREADS : To Ragout. Rub them with yoll-t; of egg, strew over them some bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram shred small, pepper, and salt. Make a roll of force- meat resembling a sweetbread, put it into a veal caul, and roast the whole in a Dutch oven ; then take brown gravy, lemon pickle, mush- room catsup, and the end of a lemon. Boil this mixture, and when the sweetbreads are done lay them in a dish, Avith forcemeat in the mid- dle, and gravy round all. Take out the lemon when the gravy is poured into the dish. SWEETBREADS : To Roast. Scald them in water and milk, and when half done take them out and wipe them dry; rub them over with yolk of egg, roll them in grated crumbs, and roast them in a Dutch oven till they are nicely browned. Serve up with fried bread crumbs, and melted butter in a tureen. SWEETBREADS A LA DAUPHINE. If for a round dish take four large sweetbreads; if for a long dish three will suffice. Pare off the fat and sinews, blanch them in warm water, parboil them, and when cold lard them. Rub a stevvpan with fresh butter, put into it a few sliced carrots and onions, and then a layer of slices of fat bacon ; place the sweet- bieads upon the bacon, sprinkle a little salt over them, and stew them with a great deal of fire on the top. They will require to stew for thi-ee quarters of an hour; then drain and put them into a pan with some glaze, and the bacon underneath. Leave them in the glaze till dinner time. SWEETBREADS, FRICASSEED. Scald and cut them in slices; beat up the yolk of an egg, and put to it some pepper, salt, and nutmeg; dip into this mixture the sweetbreads, and fry them of a delicate brown. Thicken some good gravy with flour, boil it well, and add thereto catsup or mushroom powder, lemon juice, and Cayenne pepper; stew the sweetbreads in this about five minutes, put the whole into a dish, and serve it up. Garnish with lemon. To do them white, thicken some veal gravy with butter rolled in flour, a little cream, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and mushroom powder. After stewing about ten minutes put in the sweetbreads, shake the pan, and let them simmer ; squeeze in some lemon juice, pour the whole into a dish, and serve it up. SWEETBREADS FULL DRESSED. Parboil them, let them get cold, and then cut them in pieces about three quarters of an inch thick ; dip them in the yolk of an egg, lemon- peel, and sweet herbs ; put some clean dripping into a frying-pan, and when it boils put in the sweetbreads, and fry them a fine brown. For garnish, crisp parsley ; and for sauce, mushroom catsup and melted butter, or anchovy sauce, or serve with bacon or ham. SWEETMEAT BISCUITS. Pound seme candied lemon-peel in a mortar, with orange flowers crisped ; add two spoonsful of apricot marmalade, 3 ozs. of lump sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; mix these thoroughly, and rub the whole through a sieve with a spoon; then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, and put the biscuits in an oblong form on white paper, with sugar over them, and bake them in a moderate oven. The sweetmeat may be varied at pleasure. SWEETMEAT CAKES. Make some puff' paste into two cakes of an equal size ; lay on any sort of sweetmeat, but leave round the edges about one breadth of a finger vacant, wetted with Avater ; then cover this with the other cake, and join them well. After shaping as many as you like brush them with the yolk of an egg, and put them into the oven. When done pass a brush dipped in butter over each, and scatter sugared caraways or comfits upon them. They may also be iced, or glazed with powdered loaf sugar. SWEETMEAT FRITTERS. Cut small any sort of candied fruit, and heat it with some good fresh butter, some good milk, and a little grated lemon-peel. When quite hot stir in enough flour to make it into a stiff paste, take[ ^77 ] S WE S WO it off the fii-e, and work in eight or ten eggs, two at a time. When cold form tlie fritters, fry, and serve them with pounded loaf sugar strewed over them. SWEETMEAT PUDDING. Slice thin of orange-peel, lemon-peel, and citron, 1 oz. of each, and lay them at the bottom of a dish lined with light puff paste ; mix with i lb. of butter melted, the yolks of seven and the whites of two eggs, and 5 ozs. of sugar; pour this over the sweetmeats, and set it in the oven : it will take rather more than half an hour's baking. SWEETMEATS, BROWN. These sweet- meats may be made with the cuttings and remains of any kinds of sugared or canflied article, or even of spiced bread. Pound whatever ingredient you intend to use extremely fine, and pass the powder through a tammy on to the table; in the centre of this heap make a hollow, into which put as many eggs as are necessary to form a paste, then cinnamon, cloves, and bole armenia, all reduced to an impalpable powder: use only a small quantity of the latter to give the paste a sufficiently clear cinnamon colour. Sugar may be added if required. Work all the above ingredients into a firm paste with a little flour ; then roll it out about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut out of it, with tin paste cutters, figures of any kind you may think proper; place them on white paper, and bake them for half an hour. When done decorate them according to your taste. SWELLINGS, GLANDULAR. Diseases and obstructions of the glands are common to persons of the most weakly, delicate habits, and such complaints frequently accompany consump- tion. These constitutions, it is true, are not fitted for evacuation, and this disease is found to be aggravated by low diet; but when such morbid affections of the glands become univer- sal, although they are but secondary causes of the general complaints, yet they necessarily de- serve our attention, and sometimes, perhaps, ought to make the pi'imary object of our con- sideration. Their removal will give strength to the system, and we shall find that it can be done without evacuation. In our inquiry after causes we are to view effects as causes of other effects ; and in all organised bodies we have great reason to attend to this remark, for every secondary cause is capable of producing powei'ful changes in the phenomena of life, health, and disease. The enlargement of glands may depend upon the laxity of the pai't, or the weakness of the whole frame ; but when such an enlargement has taken place the reduction is seldom to be effected by the common tonics alone. A parti- cular stimulus to the part affected is necessary, and such sea water has been found to be. When taken internally for a considerable length of time it has been found to remove the most dangerous glandular obstructions. If we attend to its operation we shall see the greatest induce- ment for its exhibition from theory, as well as experienced facts ; and we shall likewise see that evacuation must necessarily impede, instead of promote its action, as is the case with mer- cury and other stimulant deobstruents taken into the system. When sea water is taken into the stomach, and not hurried through the bowels, it will be absorbed by the lacteals, and thence carried into the mass of circulating fluids, where its chemical contents will operate on the coats and contents of the vessels through which it passes. Marine salt, Glauber's salt, and Epsom salt, which are the principal active parts dissolved in the water of the sea, when taken into the mass of circu- lating fluids, must necessarily produce a power- ful stimulant effect, particularly on the excretory oi-gans through which they pass. Accordingly we find that the kidneys are stimulated to an increased secretion of urine by these saline sub- stances, which seldom fail of acting in some degree as diuretics; and it is a fact well known to graziers that common salt is a sovereign remedy in that dreadful plague, the rot of sheep. A patient has been known to receive great benefit from so small a quantity as a single wine-glass of sea water drunk every evening. The lady was afflicted with troublesome cough, attended with a great deal of phlegm, and bilious vomitings in the morning. She liad large glandular swellings under the chin and in the neck, which, upon the use of this small quantity of sea water, conjoined with animal food and wine, gradually lessened; and the cough, with sickness and vomitings, nearly left her before she continued the remedies a week. But, not- withstanding the happy success in this case, a much larger qi»antity ought to be taken, and continued for a great length of time, in most cases. If the remedy does not purge, too much can scarcely be taken. SWIG. See Night Caps. SWIMMING OF HEAD. See Giddiness. SWOONING. {See Fainting.) The patient should be immediately sprinkled with cold water on the neck and face, and exposed as much as possible to the open air. Strong pungent odours, such as burnt feathers or volatile spirits held to the nostrils, ought to be used with caution, and only in cases where the strength of the patient has been considerably reduced, espe- cially in hysterics and hypochondriasis. In these cases spirits of hartshorn, tincture of valerian, castor oil, or asafcetida may be in- haled with advantage. If the swooning originate from anger, and be attended with nausea, bitter[ 478 ] S YL TAF tiiste, and pain at the pit of the stomach, a gen- tle emetic may be given, with copious dratights of warm camomile tea : the same means may be adopted in cases of surfeit. Persons of plethoric habit, when fainting from violence of passion, ought immediately to lose a few ounces of blood from the arm, and afterwards take a copious aperient; for instance, infusion of senna, tama- rinds with manna, salts', &c. If swooning arise from excess of pain, benefit may be derived from opium; and when it is occasioned by sudden fright or a fit of terror, blood-letting, followed by small doses of laudanum and antiraonial wine (from 5 to 10 drops of the former, and double that quantity of the latter), will tend to compose the nerves and promote perspiration. When the fit of swooning is the effect of too violent emetics or aperients, a few drops of the tincture of opium, in conjunction with aromatic wine, will form the most proper remedy. In cases of great debility it will be necessary to abstain from all stimulating food and drink, aud to use the mildest astringents, in combina- tion with a bland and nourishing diet. During the paroxysm frictions of the extremities with hot flannels will gi'eatly assist the recovery of the patient.—(Magazine of Domestic Economy.) SYLLABUB (i). Take 1 lb. of ratafia cakes, pounded and steeped in two bottles of port wine, one of claret, and one of brandy, the grated peel and juice of two lemons, one large nutmeg grated, 2 ozs. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded with rose water, and pounded sugar suEBcient to make it sweet. Put all these in- gredients, well mixed, into a large china bowl, or bowls of an equal size, and let the milk of a good cow be milked upon them ; add a little rich cream and sifted loaf sugar, and cover it to keep it warm. It may be served out into glasses with a silver ladle. SYLLABUB (2). Take a large glass of Madeira, one of rich sweet wine, half a glass of ratafia, ^ lb. of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel of a lai-ge lemon, the juice of two, and a little pounded cinnamon ; stir the whole together till the sugar is dissolved, and add a quai't of rich cream; mix it well, lay some macaroons at the bottom of a dish, and pile the frothed syllabub high upon it. It may be kept nine or ten days, and is better the third or fourth day than when first made. SYLLABUB (3). Take the juice of a lemon, the peel pared very thin, a glass of brandy, two of white wine, and \ Ik of powder sugar; put these ingredients into a pan, and leave them ; the next day add a pint of thick cream and the whites of two eggs; whip the whole well, and pour the syllabubs into glasses. They are better for keeping a day or two. If the syllabubs are not wanted quite so good as the above, raisin or mountain wine will do as well as brandy. SYLLABUB, COMMON. Take half a pint of currants, the same of port or white wine, half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of a lemon ; sweeten well with pounded loaf or good brown sugar, mix it together in a china bowl, and when the sugar dissolves milk upon it three or four pints of milk. Serve it when cold. SYLLABUBS, EVERLASTING. Sift \ lb. of double-refined sugar into five gills of cream, half a pint of nice sweet wine, the juice of two large or three small Seville oranges, the zest of two lemons just sweetened with sugnr, and a spoonful of orange-flower water ; mill it with a chocolate mill, and dress it into glasses. SYLLABUBS, SOLID. Take a quarter of a pint of mountain wine, the same of white wine, the grated peel of two, and the juice of one lemon; sweeten, and add to it one quart of rich cream ; whisk it for an hour, and put it into glasses. It will keen a week in cold weather. SYLLABUBS, SOMERSETSHIRE. Pat a pint of port and a pint of sherry or any other wine into a large bowl, and sweeten according to taste ; milk the bowl full; in about twenty minutes' time cover it tolerably high with clouted cream, grate nutmeg over it, and add cinnamon and nonpareils. SYLLABUBS, STAFFORDSHIRE. Put a pint of cyder, a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg into a bowl, and milk into it, or pour warm milk from a large teapot some height into it. SYLLABUBS, WHIPPED (1). Mix to- gether half a glass of brandy, a little lemon juice, and grated lemon-peel, with sugar enough to sweeten the whole ; stir it into a pint of thick cream, aud add the well-beaten whites of six eggs; whisk it for an hour, and put the froth, as it rises, upon a sieve to drain. Put a little port and sweet wine into glasses. SYLLABUBS, WHIPPED (2). Mix with a pint of cream half a pint of sweet wine, a glass of brandy, the juice of a lemon, grated nutmeg, and 6 ozs. of sifted loaf sugar. Nearly fill the custard glasses with the mixture, and lay on with a spoon some of the whip. SYMPATHETIC INK. See Ink, Stmpa THKTIO. T. TABLE CLOTHS. See Damask and Laundry-Maid. TABLES. See Furniture, Cleaning. TAFFEY (1). Put a quart of good molasses in an iron pot, having previously greased it v/ith butter; let it boil very fast, stirring itTAF TAP [ 479 ] all the time, for fifteen minutes ; then put in a tea-cupful of sugar, and let it boil fifteen minutes longer, stirring all the time; take a little out on a plate, and when it is brittle pour it while hot into tin plates rubbed with butter; put it in a cold place, and break it up when you want it for use. Never put taffey in china or earthen plates, as they would probably be broken in taking it out. Some think it an improvement to add the kernels of walnuts nicely picked : put them in just as you take up the taffey, and give one stir. A tea-cupful of kernels to a pint of molasses is a good proportion. TAFFEY (2). Boil together ] lb. of sugar and 5 ozs. of butter for twenty minutes; then stir in 2 ozs. of almonds blanched, divided, and thoroughly dried in a slow oven or before the fire. Let the taffey boil after they are added till it crackles when dropped into cold water, and snaps between the teeth without sticking. . TAFFEY, EVERTON. Put into a brass skillet or preserving-pan 3 ozs. of the best fresh butter, and as soon as it is just melted add 1 lb. of brown sugar of moderate quality ; keep these gently stirred over a clear fire for about fifteen minutes, or until a little of the mixture, dropped into a basin of cold water, breaks clean between the teeth without slicking to them. When it has boiled to this point it must be poured out im- mediately, or it will burn. The grated rind of a lemon, added when the taffey is half done, improves it very much; or a small tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, moistened with a little of the other ingredients as soon as the sugar is dissolved, and then stirred to the whole, will vary it pleasantly to many tastes. The real Everton taffey is made, we apprehend, with a much larger proportion of butter, but it is the less wholesome on that very account. If dropped upon dishes first rubbed with a buttered paper, the taffey, when cold, can be raised from them easily. TAINT. (See Meat: To Remove Taint FROM.) Chloride of lime or of soda, mi.xed in the water in which meat is washed, also removes any putrescent smell from it. TALLOW. See Candles. TAMIS, or Tammy, is a woollen cloth usually sold at Italian warehouses for straining gravies and sauces. It is best used by one person hold- ing two of the corners together, and a second person similarly holding the other two: the sauce being put in, the two persons to twist the tammy gently in opposite directions. TANNING. See Leather. TANSY FRITTERS. Pound some tansy with a few almonds, a carp roe, and the crumb of a small loaf; mix the paste with some powder sucar and a little rose water, fry the fritters in butter, drain, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them very hot. TANSY PUDDING. Beat up the yolks of twelve and the whites of four eggs, to which put a quart of cream; colour with spinach juice, and flavour with tansy juice ; add a little salt, some nutmeg, and a good pinch of flour; put this into a dish lined with light puff paste, and bake in a brisk oven : it will take half an hour's baking. Serve to table, garnished with Seville orange cut in slices, and candied peel. TAP, or Stop-cock. We need only note some of the variations in the construction of this contrivance for permitting and preventing the outflow of liquids. Its nose is curved downwards for the purpose of better directing the liquid into the jug or other receiver; but this nose is very conveniently narrowed into a tube form to enter the mouth of bottles, and thus rendering the use of a funnel needless. Longitudinal furrows ought to be cut on the outside of such a tubular nose, to allow the air to escape from the bottle as the liquor fills it. Taps without down-turned noses are for soldering at both ends into leaden pipes. For tanks taps are made with a shoulder or flange to press against the outside of the tank, whilst the end of the tap inside the tank is threaded, and a nut fitting to this screws up the tap tightly to the tank side. The part of a tap which by turning allows the liquor to flow is called the plug. When this by wear or corrosion becomes loose, and allows a leakage, the riveted bottom should be filed so as to allow of the plug being driven out and re- ground. To facilitate taking out the plug this is sometimes held in its place by a screw in its lower end. We cannot find space for a descrip- tion of the many patented forms of taps ; but we will warn our readers against those lined with cork, for from various causes they are especially liable to be out of order. There are also various taps invented for the purpose of avoid- ing the need of a vent-peg. Thesa are some- times called syphon cocks. The plugs fitted wiih movable keys are very slight protection against unwished-for abstractions from the beei'-barrel. Mr. Russell's pinned plug, described in the thirty-seventh volume of the " Transactions of the Society of Arts." is a much better security. Taps are usually the dearest which cost the least. Tliey ought to be of the finest brass, and accurately and strongly made. For vinegar they should be made of white-alloyed metal. Cast-iron taps are to be had, and are very durable. For veiy corrosive liquids, and even for vinegar, Ridgway's porcelain taps should bo employed. TAPE-WORM. See Worms. TAPIOCA PUDDING (1). Put four tabic-TAR [ 480 ] TAP fepooasful of tapioca into a quart of milk, and ] <?t it remain all night; then add a spoonful of brandy, some lemon-peel, and a little spice ; let them boil gently; add four eggs, the whites well beaten, and ^ lb. of sugar. Bake it. TAPIOCA PDDDING (2). Put four large table-spoonsful of tapioca into a quart of milk, and let it stand all night. In the morning put half a pint of milk into a small saucepan, and hoil in it a large stick of cinnamon broken up, and a handful of bitter almonds or peach kernels broken small; keep it covered, and boil it slowly till highly flavoured with the cinnamon and almonds, which must then be strained out, and the milk mixed with that which has the tapioca in it; put it into a tin vessel, or one lined with porcelain, and boil it till it becomes very thick with the dissolved tapioca, stirring it frequently down to the bottom ; add a piece of fresh butter as large as an egg, I lb. of sugar, four well-beaten eggs stirred in gradually, a table-spoonful of brandy, and a grated nutmeg; stir the whole well together, put it into a deep dish, and bake it an hour. Instead of boiling bitter almonds use the cinnamon only, and when you are afterwards finishing the whole mixture stir in a spoonful of peach water at the last. TAR. A great part of the turpentine made in France is from the seaside pine {Piniis niari- tima), the timber of which is of little value, being light, soft, and spongy : the leaves are eaten by sheep. This is very much cultivated along the seacoast, particularly in Gascogne, Sologne, Gatinais, Berry, and Bretagne; but it is principally in the department of the Landes that the turpentine is made. In the spring, when the resinous sap runs from the wound, it leaves behind it in its course a thick matter like cream, but thicker; this is re- moved from the tree in winter, and is different from all the kinds of resin and turpentine in use, being called by the French galipot or harms: owhen purified by melting in water, and straining, it becomes what is called Bur- (jundy pitch. The turpentine of the consist- ence of honey, being left behind after the liquid portion has been separated, is put into a still with a large quantity'' of water, and dis- tilled as long as any oil is seen swimming on the surface of the water: this is the common oil of tiDpentine, and the matter remaining at the bottom of the still is rosin. When all the sap has been obtained that the tree will yield it is hewn down, and the wood cut into billets to make tar as follows:—A conical cavity is dug in the ground, commonly in the side of a bank or on the slope of a hill, within or near a forest; the billets of wood and branches of the pine are filled into the cavity, and piled above it till they form a large stack, and are then covered with turf, beaten firmly down; the stack is kindled, and allowed to burn with a slow smouldering combustion, during which the tar is formed by the decomposition of the resinous juice of the wood. A cast-iron pan receives the tar at the bottom of the cavity as it descends, and delivers it, by a projecting spout through the bank or other base of the cavity, into barrels placed to receive it; and the barrels, immediately on being filled, are closed with bungs, and are then ready for exportation. Common Hack pitch is made from the refuse of rosin and turpentine, such as will not pass through the straw filter, and the cuttings round the incisions on the tree : this is boiled down slowly, and the residue is pitch. Pitch is, in fact, the solid black mass whicli is left after the liquid parts of tar have been evaporated. Besides the tar obtained from the pine several kinds of tar are found in commerce, such as Barhadoes tar, mineral tar, and the tar latterly obtained from the decomposition of coal for gas. All kinds of tar, when used as a paint for outdoor structures, are improved by having a small quantity of fat or tallow melted and mixed with them. Dusting over the paint with slaked lime renders it far more durable. Gas tar and common tar will not combine. As a medicine tar is stimulant, diuretic, and sudorific, and externally detergent in various CHtaneous diseases. Its chief use, however, as a medicine is in the following prepara- tions :— Oil of Tar is occasionally used for some cutaneous eruptions of sheep, &c., but is never given internally. OiNTJiENT OF Tar. Take of tar and prepared mutton suet, of each equal parts. Melt first the suet, and gradually add the tar ; strain, and stir the mixture till cold. This is a useful ointment for scalled head and other scabby eruptions. An addition of 1 drachm of calomel well mixed without heat, with ] oz. of tar ointment, will make a much more active medicine in various cutaneous diseases; but its application requires discretion. Tar Water may be made thus :—Take of tar 2 pints ; water, 1 gallon. Mix them, stir- ring with a wooden rod for a quarter of an hour; then, after the tar has subsided, let the liquor be strained, and keep it in well-corked bottles. This preparation is stimulant and diuretic, and may possibly prove useful in scurvy and some cutaneous diseases. It is, how^ever, scarcely heard of in modern medicine. From one to two pints may be taken in the course of the day. TAR WATER. See Tar.rAii [ 481 ] TAR TARRAGON is a herb well worth cultivating. It grows from a slip or root, and is easily raised. The leaves are fit to gather in July and August. They impart a fine and peculiar flavour to sauces, soups, and salads, and are indispensable in making French mustard. Tarragon may be kept a year or more by drying it in bunches; also by filling a bottle lialf with tarragon leaves, and half with good vinegar. TARRAGON CREAM. Boil some tarragon in half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk as long as it is necessary to flavour it; then strain the cream, and if it be served hot add the yolks of five eggs and some flour. When well mixed pour the preparation into a dish, and place it in the bain-marie to set. If it is to be served cold, when the cream is strained, and no more than lukewarm, put in a little rennet; strain it on your table dish ; lay a tin over it, on which put hot embers ; place the dish also on embers, and let it remain till set. TARRAGON SAUCE (1). Put two table- spoonsful of tarragon vinegar into a saucepan, and reduce it to half the quantity ; then put to it six spoonsful of good butter sauce, a little tarragon and chervil chopped, and mix all well together, and if not sufficiently strong put in a little bit of glaze and a very little more tarragon vinegar. TARRAGON SAUCE (2). Take a large handful of tarragon leaves stripped from the stalks, and put them into a small saucepan, with half a pint of boiling water and four blades of mace ; cover the saucepan, and let it stew slowly till the liquor is reduced to one-half, and the flavour of the tarragon is well drawn out; then strain it, and put the liquor into a clean sauce- pan. Mix together a table-spoonful of flour and 6 ozs. of butter, and when it is well stirred, and beaten smoothly, stir it into the tarragon water; place the saucepan over the fire, and watch it closely. When it has simmered well, and is just beginning to boil, take it off immediately, and transfer it to a sauce-boat. Eat it with any sort of boiled mefit or poultry, or with boiled fish. The tarragon will give it a fine flavour. You may add to the tarragon, while stewing, a small white onion cut in slices. This sauce may be coloured a fine green by pounding in a mortar a sufficient quantity of young parsley or spinach ; then take some of the juice, and add it to the liquid after you have strained it from the tarragon leaves, and before you put in the butter. TARRAGON VINEGAR. Take some tar- ragon, dry it in the sun, and then put it into a jar, which fill with vinegar; let it infuse for a fortnight, then draw it off, express all the liquid from the dregs, and filter the whole. VOL. II. Bottle it, cork the bottles well, and keep them in a cool place. TARTAR. See Cream of Taetaii. TARTAR EMETIC. See Antimony, Tar- trate OF Potash and. TARTARIC ACID is the acid forming with various bases the salts known as cream of tartar, tartar emetic, &c. Its chief uses are in calico- printing, and as a cheap substitute for the citric acid in forming Effervescing Draughts. TARTE R.OYALE. Take i lb. of sweet almonds, and having blanched, pound them with six eggs in a marble mortar to a very fine paste ; add 1 lb. of fresh butter and the grated rinds of two lemons ; beat it well as each ingredient is put in; lay about 18 ozs. or 20 ozs. of sifted, flour on a slab, f)lace the almond paste on it, and knead them well together; divide this into several pieces, which roll to the eighth of an inch in thickness: from these cut twelve to sixteen circular layers, the largest about seven inches in diameter, the rest each somewhat smaller than the other. When all are cut place them on white paper on tins, and bake them in a moderate oven to a clear brown ; then take them out, and let them cool. As soon as cold place the largest piece on a china dish of a sufficient size to let it lie flat, and spread over equally some preserved fruit; cover this with the second-sized layer, on which also spread some preserved fruit; then a third layer, and so on until all the paste is used, taking care to put each layer in its proper order, so that the wliole may form a cone, and that between every one there must be a different kind of preserve. When done glaze and ornament as follows :—Cut some candied lemon and orange-peel into the form of leaves, which arrange in garlands round the tart, putting here and there a ])reserved fruit. When done replace it in the oven for two or three minutes to dry, and then serve. TARTLET, ICING FOR. Beat up the whites of two eggs to a solid froth, lay some on the middle of a pie with a paste brush, sift over it plenty of powder sugar, and press down with the hand; wash out the brush, and sprinkle by degrees with water till the sugar is dissolved ; put in the oven for ten minutes, and serve it up cold. TARTLETS. Butter some small tartlet pans, line them with nice thin paste, mark them neatly round the edges, and bake them. When they are cold fill them with custard, preserve, or any sweetmeat you think proper, and if you choose pour custard over. TARTS. For baking tarts it is as well to use, instead of tin patty pans, small deep plates of china or white ware, with broad flat edges, like little soup plates. You can then have all round the edge a rim of paste ornamentally notched. 2 ITAW TEA [ ^82 ] In notching tlie edge of a tai't (this must, of course, be done before it goes into tlie oven) use a sharp linife. Mal^e the cuts at equal dis- tances, about an inch broad, so as to form squares; turn upwards one square, and leave the next one down, and so on all round the edge. This is the clievaux de frize pattern. For the shell pattern, having notched the edge of the paste into squares, turn up one half of every square, giving the corner a fold down. The paste should always be round the rim or edge. All tarts are best the day they are l)aked, but they should never be sent to table warm. Put some fine sugar at the bottom, then the fruit, with sugar over all. When covered bake them in a slack oven. Mince pies must be done in tins with puff paste. Apples and pears for tarts should bo pai'ed, quartered, and the cores taken out. Divide the quarters again, put them into a saucepan with just water enough to cover them, and let them simmer slowly till tender. Put a nice piece of lemon-peel into the water with the fruit. In making each tart pour over it a tea- ppoonful of lemon juice, and thrice as much of the water the fruit was boiled in. Apricot tart may be made in the same manner, but without lemon juice. Wlien tarts are made of preserved fruits lay in the fruit without sugar, and place a very thin crust over all, but let them remain in the oven a short time. Iced tarts should be baked in a slow oven to prevent their becoming brown. Cheesecakes should be put in the oven im- mediately after they are made, otherwise they will become oily, and look disagreeable. The oven should be of a moderate heat, for if too hot it will burn the cakes, and if too slack they will be heavy. TAWING. See Lkather. TEA. This is the produce of two varieties of the camellia-like plant Thea, one known as T. hohea, and the other as T. viridis. The difference between the manufacture of black and green tea consists in the leaves undergoing a certain degree of fermentation for the former before drying, and in those for the latter being directly submitted to a high tem- perature in iron pans, the popular belief that green tea is obtained by being dried in copper pans being quite a fallacy. In making black tea the process is not unlike that of making hay in this country. The leaves, as soon as gathered, are thrown together in a heap, and so left to undergo a certain degree of fermentation, by which they assume a dark colour and become flaccid. This state being obtained, they are brought to the " twisters," who, either by a peculiar twisting between the thumb and forefinger, cause them to assume the shrivelled appearance they have when they anive in this country, or are thrown upon a table made of split bamboo, and upon this uneven surface the leaves are nibbed and rolled by the hands till the twisting has been effected. From the twisters the leaves are conveyed to the drying room, where they are put into revolving cj-linders of wicker-work, and dried over small charcoal fires for the space of an hour, being stirred from time to time that the whole may receive the influence of the heat. They are again sent back to the twisters, who repeat their twisting operation; and, after being sifted in a hair sieve to remove the fine dust, they are returned to the wicker cj'linders, where, over a slower fire tlian the first, they are dried, this operation being performed three or even four times till they become black and crisp. For green tea the leaves, when gathered, are taken directly without undergoing any fermentation, and a few pounds thrown into iron pans, which are placed over small charcoal furnaces, and heated to a certain degree. As they are thrown into the pan they crack with the heat; and it is the business of the attendant to keep stirring them with his bare hand till the whole mass is so hot as to be no longer endurable. They are then emptied down upon mats before the " rollers," who, taking small quantities at a time, roll them between the palms of their hands in one direction, or on the bamboo tables as the black tea, while others are fanning them that they may cool the sooner, and i-etain their curl the longer. This operation is repeated two or thi'ee times, the degree of heat being reduced each time, and the process conducted more slowly and carefully. When perfectly dry and crisp it is stowed away for use or for market. The varieties of black tea are— 1. Bohea, which is in the form of a small blackish leaf, dusty,-and of a somewhat brackish taste. It should be quite crisp, and that which smells faint and disagi'eeable should be rejected. 2. Congou. Of this there are two sorts— CamjMi conrjou, a superior kind of bohea, with a larger and less dusty leaf, a fine flavour, and not unlike souchong; and Anhay contjoii, with a small wiry leaf and burnt smell: when fresh and first imported it has a high flavour, which it loses on the voyage. 3. Souchong is made from the leaves of trees three j^ears old, and from older trees when they are grown in very rich soil; but there is ver3' little of this variety made, that which comes to this country under that name being the first quality of congou. In a plantation of tea trees one only may be good enough to be called souchong, and of this only the best and youngest leaves are taken : all the others go to make boheas and congous. That which is[ 483 ] IE A TEA sold for soucTioiig sliould be crisp and dry, and not broken, of a pleasant fragrant smell, and not old and musty, and as free from dust as possible. When infused in water the leaves should be of a reddish brown colour, and the infusion light brown, but sometimes it is dark, and sometimes pale ; but if good in othai* respects, as regards flavour, it should not be rejected because of the colour. Besides that just noticed there are two other varieties of souchong. Caper souchong is so called from being rolled up like a caper: it is of a fine black glossy colour, heavy, of a fragrant smell and full high flavour, and yields an infusion of a bright reddish brown colour. This should never be dusty, broken, or of a faint smell. It is said to be the very fine dust of other varieties rolled up with gum into the shape of capers. Padre souchong, or powchong, is a very superior variety of souchong, with a fine taste, smell, and flavour. The leaves are larger, of a yellowish hue, and not so strongly twisted. This is very scarce, and difficult to be procured genuine. It should never be small and broken. 4. Pekoe is made from the tenderest leaves of three-year-old plants, gathered after the plants have been in bloom: they are collected just as the buds have burst, and have made a shoot long enough to form a small sprig, and this is picked off. It has a downy or sillcy appearance, and is much employed for mixing Avith other teas, to which it communicates its peculiar flavour. The varieties of this are orange pekoe, which owes its peculiar 2)erfume to the flowers of Olea fragrans. Every leaf is most beautifully and regular^ twisted, and should never appear in fragments. Floirery pekoe owes its perfume to the leaves or berries of Chloranthus, which communicate what is called the cowslip flavour. It is more highly esteemed than souchong. 5. Ball tea is a kind of black tea rolled up in balls the size of a nutmeg, and gummed together. Green teas are also of several varieties. Those which are known in commerce are— 1. Singlo. This has a flattish leaf, and should have a fresh strong flavour, a light green colour ■when chewed, and on infusion none of the leaves should turn brown or dark coloured. That which is yellow, of a large loose leaf, and dusty, should be rejected. 2. Twankay is a superior kind of singlo, and, like it, is of two or three qualities, the best being sometimes sold for hyson of inferior growth. It should be well twisted, and have a slight and pleasant burnt smell, and the infusion should yield a paler colour than singlo. That •which is yellow, and hns a smell somewhat like sulphur, should be rejected. 3. flijsm skin. Of this there are two kinds, the common called hlooin tea, and the superior hijson skin. The former consists of the largest, worst-coloured, irregular, and uncurled leaves that are picked out from the best hyson. It yields a pale yellowish green infusion, of a delicate taste, though somewhat of a burnt flavour. The latter is a nearer approach to true hyson, and is said to be that sort a year or more old, which has been repeatedly dried and freshened up before being brought to market a second time. It is darker than hysons with less bloom on it; its smell is somewhat musty, and has more of the brassy flavour peculiar to green teas ; it has not the delicate aromatic taste, and its infusion is darker, with less fragrance than the true hyson. 4. Hyson is of a fine blooming appearance, very dry, full-sized grain, and so crisp that it will crumble to dust with a slight pressure. The infusion should be of a light green colour, with an aromatic smell and strong pungent taste, and the leaf should open clear and smooth, without being broken or appearing shrivelled, this being an indication of old tea. The teas which appear of a dyed yellowish green, or give the water a similar tinge, or rather a brownish hue, and those which appear highly glazed, which causes them to yield a high colour to water, should be avoided. 5. Chulan hyson has a yellowish leaf, a fragrant and perfumed smell, and the infusion has a strong flavour of cowsliji. It is a variety of the preceding, distinguished by this cowslip flavour, which is communicated by having the berries of Chloranthus, a small shrub, called by the Chinese chulan, mixed with it; and hence it is sometimes called cowslip tea. 0. Gunpowder should be round like small shot, with a beautiful bloom upon it, which will not bear even the breath, with a greenish hue, and a fragrant pungent taste. This kind of tea is frequently adulterated with an inferior kind, which is dyed and glazed to bear the appearance of the finest varieties, but which on infusion is very inferior in every respect. That which has the leaf open and loose, the face of a darker hue, and the taste brassy and unpleasant, should be carefully avoided. There is a form of tea called brush tea, which is made both of green and black. It consists in the leaves being twisted into small cords like packthread, about an inch and a half or two inches long, and tied in bundles at the ends with silk of various colours. A spurious kind of tea called lie by the Chinese, and very similar to gunpowder, is much used for adulteration. It consists of the dust and sweepings of tea warehouses mixed with sand and other earth, and caused to adhereTEA [ 484 ] TEA in granules hy a sort of thin gruel made from the husks of rice being sprinkled upon it, and then stirred with rods till it acquires the desired form. The black variety of this is coloured ■with plumbago, and the green with the mixtui'e employed in heightening the colour of the green teas. It is a notorious fact that many of the green teas which are imported to this country and to the United States ai'e coloured expressly to suit the tastes of the people of these two countries. A strange infatuation exists among many to use only those teas which are dyed in pre- ference to those of a natui'al green colour. The Chinese never use these dyed teas themselves, and it is only those of inferior quality that are subjected to the operation. When Mr. Fortune was in China he took some pains to ascertain the process by which the dyeing was performed. He says the operator first takes a portion of indigo, and reduces it to powder in a mortar; then a quantity of gypsum wliich has been subjected to calcination, and is well known by the name of plaster of Paris, is also reduced to powder, and a mixture in the proportion of four parts gypsum and three parts indigo forms the colouring compound. When the leaves are undergoing the process of roasting in the iron ]mn this colouring mixture is added, in the proportion of upwards of 1 oz. to 14^ lbs. of leaves, and stirred among the leaves so that they may all be equally dyed. At this rate, Mr. Fortune observes, the green tea drinkers of Great Britain and the United States, for every 100 lbs. of tea consumed, actually swallow more than ^ lb. of gypsum and indigo; and what is worse, there is reason to believe that Prussian blue is sometimes used instead. Tea is astringent and gently excitant, and in its finer varieties exerts an influence on the nervous system, producing feelings of comfort and exhilaration when taken in moderation; but when taken in excess for a long continuance it will, in some constitutions, induce nervous and dyspeptic symptoms, the necessary con- sequences of over-excitement of the brain and stomach. Tea may be given medicinally in diarrhoea, and a strong infusion has been known to remove nervous headaches. Green tea is much more injurious than black, and should be avoided by all dyspeptics, and those whose nervous system is peculiarly excitable. This arises from the mode of preparation. Black tea undergoes a chemical change during the fermentation, which takes place before it is roasted; but the green is taken directly after being picked, and dried in its natural state, and thus retains more of the natural narcotic properties of the plant unchanged than the black : it also contains a larger quantity of the essential oil, which is considered highly poison- ous, and a greater quantity of tannin. In the making of tea for morning and evening consumption, in the first place, it is requisite that your teapot be a metal one, and that it be bright and shining. You may think this of no consequence ; but if you try a china or stone- ware pot experimentally you will lose about one-fourth of your tea, which would be saved by a metal one. Black ware is the worst of all, and a great waster of tea. Having got your metal pot, then put in a spoonful of tea for each person, and pour over it one cupful of boil- ing water for every spoonful. Let this stand to infuse not less than twenty minutes, when it will be ready in the form of a strong, rich- flavoured tincture. The flavouring substance found to agree best with the flavour of tea is the essence of bergamot, by the proper management of which you may produce from the cheapest teas the finest-flavoured bloom, hyson, gunpowder, and cowslip. There ai'e two ways of managing the bergamot. Purchase at the perfumer's some of the perfumed pieces of wood which they call bergamot fruit. Keep one such piece in your canister, and it will flavour the tea in the same way as a tonquin bean flavours snuff. If the canister be a small one the flavour perhaps would be too strong. In that case you may chip the bergamot fruit in pieces, and put only a little bit among your tea. Or, procure a small phial of the essence of bergamot, take some of the smallest of your tea, and add to it a few drops of the essence till you form a sort of paste, which is to be carefully mixed with the whole tea, in proportion to its quantity and the degree of flavour you like best. A few trials will enable you to hit the proportions better than any directions which we can give, and if you make the flavour too strong you have always an easy remedy, namely, by adding more unflavoured tea. When it is thus improved it has often been sold at I8s. and 21s. a pound. Cowslip tea has been as high as S'Js. The water used should be soft naturally. Hard water may be softened by putting into the teapot as much of the bicarbonate of potash or of soda as will lie on the point of a pen- knife ; but it makes the tea flat. TEA, CREAM. Boil 2 drachms or more of good green tea in a quart of milk ; in a few minutes strain it; add thi-ee yolks of eggs well beaten, and J lb. of powder sugar ; set it on the fire, reduce it to half, and then strain it again. When cold serve it. TEA, ICED. Take 2 drachms of the best tea, tie it in a bit of muslin, and add two quarts of cream. When the infusion is sufficientlyTEE TE .i [ 485 ] strong take out the muslin, squeeze it well, and mix cream with the eggs and sugar as directed for Ice Cream. TEAL, ROASTED. They should be taken up with the gravy in. Whilst doing baste them well with butter ; then, before taking up, with a little salt; pour a good gravy over them, and serve shallot sauce in a boat. TEETH. The principal requisite for the preservation of the teeth is never to retire to rest without having cleaned them, for this prevents the viscous particles of food collected during the day from corrupting them in the night. The toothache, now so common, is frequently owing to a hollow state of the teeth, but still more frequently originates in a want of cleanliness. The cleaning of the teeth, however, requires precaution. What is called the tartar of the teeth is of a corrosive nature, and should be removed with the greatest care. If there be too much tartar, so that it adheres like a cement between two teeth, its being in- cautiously removed will deprive the teeth of the tartarous cohesion, and consequently of their support: thus, from the constant contact of the tongue, lips, and food, they will be shaken and loosened. The same will happen should the tartar be allowed to eat away the gum from the root of the tooth. If in this case the basis of the tooth be injured, it will necessarily be rendered loose, the gums being no longer able to contain a tooth which is deprived of its intermediate cement. The tartar, therefore, must not be broken suddenly with iron or glass instruments, but may be gradually scraped away with a blunt or broad cut quill, or some similar substance, from which the enamel of the teeth can suffer no in- jury. Most kinds of dissolvent drops, especially those sold as specifics for whitening the teeth, are made up of vitriolic acid diluted with some distilled waters. They are of no service, but, on the contrary, remove the enamel with the tartar, and thus spoil the teeth for ever. The common tooth-brushes are liable to the game objection. To prevent the tartar from settling on the teeth they ought to be kept clean by washing them every morning and evening. Certain kinds of food and drink should likewise be men- tioned as having a tendency to produce and accumulate the tartar—such are all viscous and saline substances, as salted and smoked meat, cheese, roasted eggs, the flesh of tame and wild animals kept too long for the sake of making it more tender and palatable, truffles, and all species of mushrooms; beans, peas, chestnuts, vinegar, tart wines, and all kinds of acid fruit. An expedient equally safe and effectual for removing the tartar is to cover the teetli with a fine powder of gum tragacanth, or with soft wax, and by that means to extract the tartar at once, together with this adhesive covering. If the toothache proceeds from a hollow and carious tooth, some soft exti'act of the Peruvian bark may be placed in the cavity. If this should not remove the pain a few drops of cajeput oil upon cotton may be applied to the hollow tooth, or rubbed externally upon the painful side of the cheek. Thunberg, the Swedish traveller, introduced the use of cajeput oil into Europe, having often witnessed its powerful and almost instantaneous effects in the East Indies, where it is the last expedient of gouty and rheumatic sufferers. Though external remedies are not likely to effect a radical cure of this malady, yet in. urgent cases they may be safely resorted to, especially if applied so as not to injure the skin of the face, for they will often produce a temporary relief. If, however, the toothache pi'oceed from no local cause ; if, for instance, it be owing to an impure stomach, to catarrhal, rheumatic, hysteric, venereal, or other affections, all the specifics ever discovered cannot relieve from pain until the cause be either in part or entirely removed. The oil of savin, or juniper oil, is preferable to laudanum in its effects on a hollow tooth ; the latter is at best an uncertain remedy. To dissolve and wash away the superfluous slimy and unctuous particles which produce the tartar, fresh water is sufficient; or it may be rendered a little more acrid by the admixture of a small quantity of common salt. Acids and alkalies, so frequently employed as den- tifrices, are of too corrosive a nature; and alkalies in particular injure the gums, perhaps the teeth themselves, while acids deprive them of their enamel, and thus occasion a speedy external corruption and inevitable gangrene within. The most simple dentifrice is a crust of bread hard toasted, and reduced to a fine powder. This is fully calculated to absorb the viscid, oleaginous particles, and to remove the stony or tartarous matter. The bread, however, should not be toasted too black, as in that case it would evolve an acrid, alkaline salt, which might prove hurtful. A still better dentifrice is a moderately fine powder of the Peruvian bark, particularly of the genuine red species, which sti'engthens the gums without inflaming them. In cleaning the teeth we ought not to make use of brushes or sponges, but of the finger, which, being provided with the finest papillary vessels, is a much better and more properTEE TEN [ 48G ] instrument, and precludes tlie necessity of resorting to artificial means. Besides, the finger has the advantage of being soft and pliable, and of feeling any immoderate pressure too sensibly to permit us to do injury to the teeth or gums: hence it is an injudicious delicacy alone which can prevent us from making use of it in preference to even the best tooth-brushes. For cleauing the interstices between the teeth we should not employ pins or needles, whether made of gold, silver, or steel; for all metallic substances are apt to canker the teeth. If tooth-picks be at all advisable they should be made of soft wood, or quills cut in a blunt point. In our own opinion none should be used ; for, of whatever materials they are made, they open, loosen, and injure the teeth, by making room for the tartar and other substances to prey upon them and the gums. To answer every purpose of tooth-picks, a thick and soft cotton cloth should be used to rub the teeth over gently after every meal; but if people have once accustomed themselves to regularly picking their teeth, then indeed the cotton frictions may perhaps come too late. Lastly, the cleaning and brushing of the teeth, however useful and necessary, are in- sufficient to prevent the settling of the tartar, and the consequent injury to the teeth; for the source of both evils does not exist in the mouth, but really proceeds from the stomach and an impure state of the fluids. For this reason the medical treatment of the teeth requires a particular regimen and diet, accord- ing to the individual case of every patient. TEETHING. See Dentition. TENCH : To Choose. This fish should be dressed as soon as possible after being taken. When dead the gills should be red ard hard to separate, the eyes bright, and the body feel firm and stiff. It is generally covered with a slimy matter, which, if clear, is a sign that the fish is good. This matter may be removed by rubbing it with a little salt. TENCH : To Dress. Tench is a most delicate fish, and may be either fried or stewed, though in the latter way the flavour of the fish is not preserved. To boil tench, put the fish into the water when of a boiling heat, with some salt, an onion cut in slices, some pai'sley, and a little milk. When done enough put the fish into a soup dish, and pour over it a little of the liquor it was boiled in, with the parsley and onion. Serve it with melted butter and parsley. Some persons put perch and tench into cold water, and boil them gradually; then serve with melted butter and soy. - TENCH : To Souse. Having drawn the tench, clear away the slime and cut off the gills; put the fish into a kettle, with some water, vinegar, bay leaves, sweet herbs, cloves, mace, pepper, and salt. When done take off the loose scales, and lay the tench in a dish carefully; strain the liquor, add a little clarified isinglass to it, boil it a little vvhile, then strain it again, and pour it over the fish. It must not be touched till quite cold. TENCH, BROILED (with Herbs). Take three or four tench as fresh as possible, plunge them into boiling water, sci-ape off the scales carefully, beginning with the head, cleanse them thoroughly, and put them into a marinade of oil, with shred parsley, scallious, shallots, thyme, bay leaf, salt, and pepper; wrap them in a double paper, inclosing tlie marinade, and broil them. Take off the paper before sending to table. Serve them in a piquant, anchovy, or caper sauce. TENCH, FRICASSEE OF. Cleanse the tench, scale it, and take off the head, tail, and fins; cut the fish into three or four pieces, and put them into a ste wpan, with some white wine, bay leaf, pepper, and salt. Dissolve some butter with a clove of garlic in it, toss up a few morels in it, then add a glass of white wine, the same of fish gravy, small onions, and carp roes ; put this over the fish, let the whole simmer a short time, and then serve. TENCH, FRIED. Split them along the back, and raise the flesh from the bones ; cut the skin across at the heads and tails, take it off, and remove the bone. Next mince some of the fish with mushrooms, chives, parsley, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, and herbs ; mix these together, and pound them in a mortar with crumbs of bread soaked in cream, the yolks of three or four eggs, and a little butter. With this stuff the rest of the fish, and fry them in clarified butter, strewing over them some flour. Wlien brown take them out and lay them before the fii'e ; pour the fat from the pan, and melt in it some butter and flour, keeping it stirred till browned, after which add thereto half a pint of white wiue; stir these well, and put in half a pint of boiling water, an onion, cloves, sweet herbs, and mace ; cover them closely, and stew them gently for a quarter of an hour ; then strain off the liquor, put the whole in again, with two spoonsful of catsup, 1 oz. of trufHes or morels boiled till tender in half a pint of water, mush- rooms, and half a pint of oysters. Pour the sauce over the fish, and let them lie in it till thoroughly hot; then take them out, put them into another dish, and serve them with the sauce. Garnish with sliced lemon. TENCH, MATELOTE OF. Dissolve 2 ozs. of butter in a stewpan, and add a dozen small onions, mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two or three cloves, thyme, bay leaves.[ ] T H E a little flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of white wine. When these have simmered a quarter of an hour put in the tench cut in pieces. As soon as the fish is done add capers and a chopped anchovy; make a liaison with the yolks of three eggs, and serve with fried bread. TENCH PIE. Put some butter at the bottom of a dish; grate thereon some nutmeg, with the addition of pepper, salt, and mace ; lay in the tench, cover them with butter, and pour in some red wine and a little water ; cover the pie, and when baked pour in some melted butter and rich gravy. TENCH, ROASTED. Take off the scales, heads, and fins of the tench, cleanse and dry them well, and put into each a little butter mixed with sweet herbs. Wrap each fish in paper, fasten them all to a spit, and roast them. TENCH IN A SALMIS OR HASH. Thoroughly cleanse and wash the tench, cut off the head, split it down the back, and cut both the sides into three or four pieces. Have ready on the fire some good consomme, with carrot, onion, parsley, peppercorns, salt, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, a bit of lean ham, and half a bottle of port. Let the tench stew in this till well done, and then put it into another stewpan. The liquor in which the fish was done must be stewed down, with four large spoonsful of sauce tournee, till it is of a moderate thickness ; then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve it to table very hot. TENCH STEWED WITH WINE. Let the tench be carefully cleansed and crimped ; then set it in a pan, with some good consomme, a bottle of Madeii-a, a little salt, a bay leaf, and some peppercorns ; let it stew gently between two fires till well done ; then take it out, lay it on a dish, and make the liquor tolerably thick by stewing it with three spoonsful of sauce iournce. If not perfectly smooth squeeze it through a tammy, put in the juice, add a very little Cayenne pepper, and pour this sauce over the fish. Garnish with veal forcemeat. TENCH, STUFFED. Cut off the tails and fins of your tench, split them down the back, take out the large bone, and fill the spaces with a farce composed of carps, smelts, or any other fish ; close the openings with flour, and fry them in butter. When about two-thirds done put them into a stewpan, with a spoonful of good stock, sweet herbs, carp roes, pepper, and salt. Finish dressing them over a gentle fire, let the sauce reduce, and serve them. TERRAPINS. These form a favourite dish for supper and parties, and, when well cooked, they are certainly veiy delicious. Put the terrapins alive into a pot of boiling water, where they must remain till they are quite dead You then divest them of their outer skin and toe-nails, and, after washing tliem in warm water, boil them again until they become quite tender, adding a handful of salt to the water. Having satisfied yourself that they are perfectly tender, take off the shells, and clean your terrapins very carefully, removing the sandbag and gall without breaking them ; then cut the meat and entrails into small pieces, adding the juice that has been given out in cutting them up, but no water; season with salt, Cayenne, and black pepper to your taste, adding J lb. of butter to each terrapin, and a handful of flour for thickening. After stirring a short time add four or five spoonsful of cream and half a pint of good Madeira to every four terrapins, and serve hot in a deep dish. Some cooks put in a little mace, a table-spoonful of mustard, and ten drops of the gall, and just before serving add the yolks of four eggs boiled hard. During the stewing particular attention must be paid to stirring the preparation fre- quently, and it must be borne in mind that terrapins cannot possibly be too hot. TETANUS. See Locked Jaw. TETTER. See Ringworm ok the Scalp. TEWHADIDDLE. a pint of table beer (or ale if you intend it for a supplement to your " nightcap"), a table-spoonful of brandy, and a tea-spoonful of brown sugar or clarified syrup. A little grated nutmeg or ginger may be added, and a roll of very thinly cut lemon- peel. Before our readers make any remarks upon this composition we beg of them to taste it. If the materials are good they will find it one of the pleasantest beverages that they ever put to their lips. THERMOMETER. That known as Fahrm heit's is usually employed in this country. In dividing the scale of the thermometer the two fixed points usually resorted to are the freezing and boiling points of water, which always take place at the same temperature when under the same atmospheric pressure. The intermediate part of the scale is divided into any convenient number of degrees, and it is obvious that all thermometers thus constructed will indicate the same degree of heat when ex- posed to the same temperature. In the centi- grade thermometer this space is divided into 100°, the freezing of water being marked 0°, the boiling point 100°. In Fahrenheit's scale the 0° is placed at 32° below the freezing of water, which, therefore, is marked 32°, and the boiling point 212", the intermediate space being divided into 180°. Another scale is Reaumur s, the freezing point of which is 0°, the boiling point 80°. These are the principal thermo- meters used in Europe. There is, however, another, called De Lisle's, in which the gradua-THE T HI [ 488 } tion commences with the boiling point, which is marked 0°, and the freezing is 150°. Each degree of Fahrenlieit's scale is equal to gths of a degree on Reaumur's. If, therefore, the number of degrees on Fahrenheit's scale, above or below the freezing point of water, be multiplied by 4, and divided by 9, the quotient will be the corresponding degree of Reaumur. To reduce the degrees of Reaumur to those of Fahrenheit they are to be multiplied by 9, and divided by 4. Every degree of Fahrenheit is equal to gths of a degree on tlie centigrade scale. The same method must be adopted in reducing these re- spectively as is directed in the preceding para- graphs relative to Reaumur's thermometer, using, of course, 5 and 9 as multiplier and divisor. When a thermometer is intended to measm'e very low temperatures spirit of wine is em- ployed in its construction, as that fluid has never been known to freeze, whereas the low temperature at which it boils renders it unfit for measuring high temperatures. Quicksilver will indicate the degree of 500 of Fahrenheit, but freezes at 40° below 0°. For measuring intense degrees of heat an instrument has been contrived called a jn/ro7neter. THETFORD WATER. The town of Thetford, situated partly in the hundred of Shropham, county of Norfolk, and partly in the hundred of Lackford, in the county of Suffolk, distant thirty miles S.W. from Norwich, and eighty miles N.N.E. from London, possesses a chalybeate spring. Its composition in a gallon is as follows :— Grains. Carbonate of iron . . . 2-75 Cliloride of magnesium . . 3-25 Chloride of calcium . . 2'2o Sulphate of magnesia . . 1'25 Chloride of sodium . . 2'125 Sulphate of lime ; , . 3" 14625 Cubic inches. Carbonic acid gas. . . 12 07 Oxygen gas . . , . 1-21 Atmospheric air . , . 3'04 16-33 This water thus appears to be one of the strongest cbalybeates with which we are ac- quainted. It exerts on the human constitution an influence equally active as the Tonbridge water. It requires the same precautions in its use, and it is applicable to the same diseases. THICKENING (1). It is customary to thicken some dishes with a compound of two parts flour and one of butter, first made into a paste by beating slowly the ingredients in a pan till the mass acquires a pure gold colom*, the flour and butter being stirred all the time, to prevent the mass from buining at the bottom of the pan. The substance thus obtained is called thickening, or thickening paste. The mass readily combines with water. A large table- spoonful is sufficient to thicken a quart of meat broth. Besides this thickening paste other farinaceous substances are employed for that purpose, such as bread raspings, crumbs of stale bread, biscuit powder, potato mucilage, oatmeal, sago powder, rice powder, &c. A cow-heel, on account of the vast quantity of gelatine with which it abounds, is well calculated for giving body to soup. The cow-heel, after being cracked, is boiled with the broth or soup. THICKENING (2). Clarified butter is best for this purpose; but if you have none ready put some fresh butter into a stewpan over a clear slow fire, and when it is melted add sufficient fine flour to make it the thickness of paste; stir it well together with a wooden spoon for fifteen or twenty minutes till it is quite smooth, and the colour of a sovereign. This must be done very gradually and patiently. If you put it over too fierce a fire to hurry it, it will become bitter and empyreuraatic. Pour it into an earthen pan, and keep it for use. It will keep good a fortnight in summer, and longer in winter. A large spoonful will be, in general, enough to thicken a quart of gravy. This in the French kitchen is called rovx. Be particularly attentive in making it. If it gets any burnt smell or taste it will spoil eveiy- thing it is put into. When cold it should be thick enough to cut out with a knife like a solid paste. If the gravies, &c., are too thin, use more or less thickening according to the con sistence you would wish them to have. In making thickening the less butter and more flour you use the better. They must be thoroughly worked together, and the broth or soup, &c., you put them to added by degrees. Take especial care to incorporate them together, or your sauces, &c., will taste floury, and have a disgusting greasy appearance; therefore, after you have thickened your sauce, add to it some broth or warm water, in the proportion of two table-spoonsful to a pint, and set it by the side of the fire, to raise any fat, &c., that is not thoroughly incorporated with the grav}'', which you must carefully remove as it comes to the top. This is called cleansing or finishing the sauce. Half an ounce of butter and a table- spoonful of flour are about the proportions to a pint of sauce to make it as thick as cream. The fat skimmings at the top of the broth- pot are sometimes substituted for butter. Some cooks merely thicken their soups and sauces with flour.THR [ ^139 ] THR THICKENING FOR SAUCES. For white thickening put 4 ozs. of the best fresh butter into a stewpan over a clear fire, and when it is melted stir in gradually with a wooden spoon eight table-spoonsful of flour till quite smooth; then put it into an earthen pan, and tie over to keep. It should not be darker than cream. For brown thickening only six spoonsful of flour should be used with 4 ozs. of fresh butter. It should be made over a stronger fire, and browned gradually. If it burn, or have dark specks, it will make sauce bitter. The usual proportion for thickening gravy is a table-spoonful to a quart. THIEVES' VINEGAR. See Aromatic Vinegar. TPIORNBACKS. Let them hang at least one day before they are dressed. They may be served either boiled or fried in bread crumbs, being first dipped in eggs. THORP-ARCH WATER. The village of Thorp-Arch is romantically situated upon the banks of the river Wharfe, between Tadcaster and Wetherby. The mineral spring which has given celebrity to the place was discovered on the 4th of June, 1744. The water issues from the bottom of a lofty limestone rock, over- hanging in some measure the river, and is conveyed, by means of a pump, into a room built for the purpose. When recently draw^n it has a clear sparkling appearance, but on standing a short time it becomes slightly turbid. It is brisk and decidedly saline to the taste. Its temperature is 49°, the surrounding atmosphere being 57°. A wine gallon of this water contains the following:— Grains. Chloride of sodium . 562 00 Chloride of calcium . . J 2 25 Chloride of magnesium . 7-25 Carbonate of iron 1-75 Silica 0-75 584-00 Cubic inches. Carbonic acid . . . 10-55 Azotic gas . 6-00 16-55 This water is aperient and tonic. It operates very mildly, and with considerable certainty. Its chalybeate impregnation and gaseous con- tents prevent the stomach suffering incon- venience from its continued use. It is, there- fore, peculiarly well fitted to remove all diseases of debility arising from a morbid condition of the alimentary canal, and the organs connected with it, as dyspepsia, nervous disorders, and female weaknesses ; glandular obstructions, and bilious complaints. The dose may be from half a pint to a pint, taken in the morning in divided doses, with an interval between of twenty minutes, spent in gentle exercise to aid its operation. The use of acid fruits and fermented liquors should be avoided during a course of this water. The diet should be light and nutritive. Regular habits of life and daily exercise in the air will essentially aid in the restoration of health. THREAD. For the following we are in- debted to Webster and Parkes' " Encyclopaedia of Domestic Economy : "— Thread made of flax, ox linen thread, was formerly imported chiefly from the Netherlands, as Bruges thread, Lisle thread, &c., used for sewing cambric ; but these are now superseded by our own manufactures. The greatest quantity of sewing thread is made in Scotland. White or stitching thread is used for sewing white articles where great strength is required ; but, in general, sewing cotton is now so well made that it is very generally employed instead of thread of flax. Wire thread is a kind much twisted, used by bonnet makers. Patent or Shrewsbury thread is of various colours, and is sold in pound papers for sewing strong coarse articles. Scotch thread is of all colours and thicknesses. Lace thread is for mending lace. The different kinds of cotton thread are chiefly divided into twist, yarn, and sewing thread. The .first is either water twist or mule twist. Water twist, so named because chiefly made by water-mills, is used for weaving calicoes. It is spun hard with a great deal of twist. Mule twist is made by steam engines for weaving muslins and the finest cotton goods, and is somewhat softer than the former. Stocking yarn, for stocking weaving, is spun softer than twist, and two threads are afterwards doubled together, and then slightly twisted round each other. Cotton sewing thread, usually called sewing cotton, has of late been made so beautifully b}' machinery, and its utility and cheapness are so well known, that it has in a measure superseded the use of linen thread formerly used. White hall cotton is of various sizes, distin- guished from each other by numbers or by letters. There is also coloured ball cotton. Reel cotton is a superior kind. These are now extensively used for sewing, instead of the linen thread employed before the cotton was brought to such perfection ; but the latter is not nearly so strong nor so durable for many purposes as flax thread. To free cotton thread from its divergentTH U THE [ 490 ] fibres it is passed rapidly through the flame of coal gas, by which it acquires a more smooth and even appearance. Mending cotton, or darning cotton, is chiefly used for repairing cotton hose. It is white, black, and coloured, and is composed of two threads but little twisted. Trafalgar cotton and Moravian cotton are used for working muslins, nets, cambrics, &c., and are quite soft. Knitting cotton is for knitting gloves, socks, fringes, &c. It is twisted hard, but not so hard as sewing cotton. Marking cotton is in small balls, and is dyed previously to being twisted, so as to render the colour immovable. hace thread is also made of cotton for mend- ing lace or bobbin net. Gymp thread is a soft thread used for em- broidering on muslin. Glazed cotton is another variety for the same purpose. Worsted, or worsted thread, is made of ^Yool of various degrees of fineness, and dyed of all colours, chiefly for darning, embroidery, and tapestry. Silk thread, or sewing silk, prepared for sewing, is fine white, or China silk; common sewing silk, black and dyed of all colours; tailors' sewing silk; twist, or mohair, for tailors; floss silk, for darning hose, &c. THROAT, INFLAMMATORY SORE. The causes which generally give rise to this comjjlaint are exposure to cold, either from changes in the weather, from being placed in a partial current of air, wearing damp linen, sitting in wet rooms, or getting wet in the feet, coming out of a heated or crowded room suddenly into the open and cool air, or vice versa. It may also be occasioned by violent exertions of the voice, blowing wind instruments, acrid sub- stances irritating the fauces (cavity behind the tongue), and by the sudden suppression of any accustomed evacuations. It differs from the malignant or putrid sore throat by not being contagious, and by princi- pally attacking the youthful, and those of a full and plethoric habit, and is chiefly confined to cold climates, occurring usually in spring and autumn ; whereas the malignant sore throat is contagious, and chiefly attacks those of a weak, irritable habit, and is most prevalent in warm climates. Many people are so strongly predisposed to this complaint as to be attacked with it from any considerable application of cold beyond what they are habitually accustomed to. In the treatment of this complaint, if the inflammation run high, the pulse be quick and hard, with difficulty of breathing, 12 ozs. or 14 ozs. of blood ought to be drawn from the jugular vein (supposing the patient to be a grown person), in preference to the arm; but if the symptoms do not run high it will be sufficient to draw blood by applying several leeches under the ears, particularly on the affected side. At the commencement of this disease, and before fever sets in violently, an emetic, given in time, often proves useful, and not unfre- quently checks its complete formation. The bowels must be kept free by the occasional use of aperient medicine. Where the inflammation is severe, the early application of a blister or a mustard poultice round the throat, or to the back of the neck, has been attended with the most decided benefit; but in slight cases it may suffice to rah the parts twice or three times a day with some cam- phor liniment, putting a piece of flannel round them afterwards. It is also of service in this complaint to wash the mouth and fauces with mildly astringent gargles, somewhat sharpened with some acid, aiid also to scrape and cleanse the tongue. Gargles. Take confection of the red rose, 1 oz. ; boiling water, ^ pint; diluted sulphuric acid, 1 drachm. Or, barley water, 6 ozs.; honey of roses, 1 oz.; diluted sulphuric acid, 45 drops. Or a gargle for domestic purposes, and one sometimes equally efficacious, may be made of sage tea and honey, with the addition of a little vinegar. Frequently inhaling the vapour of warm water and vinegar greatly assists the effects of gargles, which may be done by means of an inverted funnel. Should the inflammation not resolve, and threaten to terminate in suppuration, this pro- cess ought to be hastened by the frequent ap- plication of warm fomentations and poultices to the throat, and the patient directed to receive the vapour of warm milk and water into his throat several times in the course of the day, and to use warm gargles composed of a decoc- tion of figs and barley water. When matter is formed, if the tumour does not readily burst, a •lancet should be applied to it. In this stage of the disease there is the greatest danger, in con- sequence of the passage to the stomach and lungs being so closed by the size and pressure of the tumour, that the patient's life is endangered from suffocation or the want of nourishment, which must be relieved by efficient means within the province of the surgeon. Care should be taken not to catch fresh cold daring the exist- ence of this complaint, otherwise it may termi- nate in pleurisy. Under this head we may refer to Diphtheria, a very serious affection of the throat, apparently[ 491 ] TIN Tim of recent introduction. The treatment most effectual seems to be similar to that we have given under the head of Putrid Sore Throat, hut with the addition of chloride (muriate) of iron to the medicines. From 10 to 30 drops of the tincture of muriate of iron may be given two or three times a day. THRUSH, or Aphth.e. The aphthse are little whitish ulcers affecting the whole inside of the mouth, tongue, throat, and stomach of infants. Sometimes they reach through the whole intestinal canal, in which case they are very dangerous, and often put an end to the infant's life. If the aphthje are of a pale colour, pellucid, few in number, soft, superficial, and fall easily off, they are not dangei'ous; but if opaque, yellow, brown, black, thick, or running together, they ought to be dreaded. It is generally thought that the aphthse owe their origin to acrid humours. We have reason, however, to believe they are more frequently owing to too hot a regimen both of the mother and child. It is a rare thing to find a child who is not dosed with wine, punch, cinnamon waters, or some other hot and inflaming liquors, almost as soon as it is born. It is well known that these will occasion inflammatory disorders even in adults: is it any wonder, then, that tliey should heat and inflame the tender bodies of infants, and set, as it were, the whole constitution on a blaze ? The most proper medicines for the aphtha are vomits and gentle laxatives. Five grains ef rhubarb and i drachm of magnesia alba may be rubbed together, and divided into six doses, one of which may be given to the infant every four or five hours till they operate. These powders may either be given in the child's food or a little of the syrup of pale roses, and may be repeated as often as is found necessary to keep the body open. It is common in this case to administer calomel; but, as that medicine sometimes occasions gripes, it ought always to be given to infants with caution. Many things have been recommended for gargling the mouth and throat in this disease, but it is not easy to apply these in very young cliildren. We would therefore recommend it to the nurse to rub the child's mouth frequently with a little borax and honey, or with the following mixture:—Take fine honey, 1 oz.; borax, 1 drachm; burnt alum, ^ drachm; rose water, 2 drachms : mix them together. A very proper application in this case is a solution of 10 or I'i grains of white vitriol in 8 ozs. of barley water. These may be applied with the finger, or by means of a bit of soft rag tied to the end of a probe. THRUSHES. These birds are dressed the same as woodcocks. TIC DOULOUREUX. This is distinguished by acute lancinating pain shooting along the various ramifications of the nerves of tlie face. The fits, which generally continue about half a minute, sometimes recur in quick succession. The pain varying in its intensity, excites the most piercing cries. When at its height the parts affected ai"e contorted or convulsed. The eye at times is inflamed and watery. The paroxysms, which are more frequent during the day than the night, are aggravated by conversa- tion and mastication. One side of the face is generally the seat of the disorder. Tic douloureux may be distinguished from rheumatic, gouty, and every other affection of the cheek, by the uniform course of the pain, which will so generally correspond with tlie nerves, that the person thus tormented will be able accurately to trace those of the fifth pair. This complaint sometimes subsides suddenly, the health remaining permanently established. Oftener it returns at intervals more or less considerable, and sometimes during the whole progress of life. 'The only remedy is that of section of the nerves. This will occasionally prove effectual. If it even give but temporary relief the opera- tion should be attempted, being simple and unattended with danger. The best medical remedies are from ^ drachm to 1 drachm of carbonate of iron mixed in honey, and taken twice or thrice a day. Rub into the part affected a piece, about the size of a pea, of the extract of belladonna. Diet has a great influence. A little minced food taken frequently, and no hearty meal, has been known to banish this disease. TIMBALE. Put a spoonful of flour on tlie slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into which pour a little oil, ^ lb. of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and a pinch of salt; knead these ingredients thoroughly into the flour till the whole becomes a tolerably firm paste, roll it out to nearly half an inch in thickness, and line on» large or several small round plain moulds; fill your timbale with any farce or ragout you think proper, cover it with a layer of paste, pressing the edges together, and bake it. When done turn the timbale on a dish, make a hole in it, pour in some rich sauce or gravy, and serve. TIN is one of the lightest and most fusible of all metals; it is of a greyish white colour, has a strong, disagreeable taste, and when rubbed emits a peculiar odour. It is also remarkably malleable; and, when beaten into very thin plates, or tinfoil, is employed in covering looking- glasses. Farther, tin readily unites with copper, forming the compositions known under the namesTIN [ 492 ] TIN of bronze and bell-metal: by immersing thin plates of iron in melted tin they become coated, and are then termed bloclc-tin or latten, which is manufactured into tea-canisters and various culinary utensils. Tin is likewise of use in medicine, both in the form of filings and in a state of powder, especially as a I'crwii/'ifr/e; it has often success- fully expelled the tape-worm, which had resisted the power of many other drugs ; but the dose varying from a few grains to 1 oz., it is one of those remedies which must be prescribed by the experienced practitioner. TINCTURES. Aromatic Tincture. In- fuse 'ii ozs. of Jamaica pepper in two pints of brandy, without heat, for a few days; then strain off the tincture. This simple tincture will suf- ficiently answer all the intentions of the more costly preparations of this kind. It is rather too hot to be taken by itself, but is very proper for mixing with such medicines as might other- Avise prove too cold for the stomach. . Astringent Tincture. Digest 2 ozs. of gum kino in a pint and a half of brandy for eight days ; afterwards strain it for use. This tincture, though not generally known, is a good astringent medicine. With this view 1 oz. or moi'e of it may be taken three or four times a day. Camphorated Spirit of Wine. Dissolve 1 oz. of camphor in a pint of rectified spirits. This solution is chiefly employed as an embro- cation in bruises, palsies, the chronic rheuma- tism, and for preventing gangrenes. The above quantity of camphor, dissolved in ^ lb. of the volatile aromatic spirit, makes Ward's essence. Compound Tincture of the Bark. Take of Peruvian bark 2 ozs.; Seville orange-peel and cinnamon, of each ^ oz. Let the bark be powdered, and the other ingredients bruised; then infuse the wliole in a pint and a half of brandy for five or six days in a close vessel; afterwards strain off the tincture. The dose is from 1 drachm to 3 or 4 drachms every fifth or sixth hour. It may be given in any suitable liquor, and occasionally sharpened with a few drops of the spirits of vitriol. This tincture is not only beneficial in intermitting fevers, but also in the slow, nervous, and putrid kinds, especially towards tlieir decline. Compound Tincture of Senna. Take of senna 1 oz. ; jalap, coriander seed, and cream of tartar, of each ^ oz. Infuse them in a pint and a half of French brandy for a week, then strain the tincture, and add to it 4 ozs. of fine sugar. This is an agreeable purge, and answers all the purposes of the elixir salutis and of Daffy's elixir. The dose is from J oz. to 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. Sacred Tincture, or Tincture of Hiera PicRA. Take of socotrine aloes in powder 1 oz.; Virginian snake-root and ginger, of each 2 drachms. Infuse in a pint of mountain wine and half a pint of brandy for a week, fi'equently shaking the bottle ; then strain off the tincture. This is a safe and useful purge for persons of a languid and phlegmatic habit; but it is thought to have better effects taken in small doses as a laxative. The dose as a purge is from 1 oz. to 2 ozs. Tincture of the Balsam of Toi.u. Take of the balsam of tolu 1^ oz. ; rectified spirit of wine, 1 pint. Infuse in a gentle heat until the balsam is dissolved ; then strain the tincture. This tincture possesses all the virtues of the balsam. In coughs and other complaints of the breast a tea-spoonful or two of it may be taken on a bit of loaf sugar; but the best way of using it is in syrup. An ounce of the tinctm-e, properly mixed with 2 lbs. of simple syrup, will make what is commonly called the balsamic syrup. Tincture of Black Hellebore. Infuse 2 ozs. of the roots of black hellebore, bruised, in a pint of proof spirit for seven or eight days; then filter the tincture through jiaper. A scruple of cochineal may be infused along with the roots to give the tincture a colour. la obstructions of the menses a tea-spoonful of this tincture may be taken in a cup of camomile or pennyroj'al tea twice a day. Tinctuke of Myrrh and Aloes. Take of gum myrrh lioz.; hepatic aloes, 1 oz. Let them be reduced to a powder, and infused in two pints of rectified spirits for six days in a gentle heat; then strain the tincture. This is principally used by surgeons for cleansing foul ulcers, and restraining the progress of gan- grenes. It is also by some recommended as a proper application to green wounds. Tincture of Rhubarh. Take of rhubarb 2j ozs.; lesser cardamom seeds, ^ oz.; brandy, 2 pints. Digest for a weelt, and strain the tincture. Those who choose to have a vinous tincture of rhubarb may infuse the above in- gredients in a bottle of Lisbon wine, adding to it about 2 ozs. of proof spirits. If 4- oz. of gentian root and 1 drachm of Virginian snake root be added to the above ingredients, they will make the bitter tincture of rhubarb. All these tinctures are designed as stomachics and cor- roborants as well as purgatives. In weakness of the stomach, indigestion, laxity of the in- testines, fluxes, colicky, and such-like com- plaints, they are frequently of great service. The dose is from half a spoonful to three or four spoonsful or more, according to the cir- cumstances of the patient, and the purposes the tincture is intended to answer. Tincture of Spanish Flies. Take of Spanish[ 493 ] TO A TIN flies reduced to a fine powder, 2 ozs. ; spirit of ■wine, 1 pint. Infuse for two or three days; tlien strain off the tincture. This is intended as an acrid stimulant for external use. Parts affected with the palsy or chronic I'heumatism may be frequently rubbed with it. The Tonic Tincture. Mix. 2 ozs. of the compound tincture of Peruvian bark with the like quantity of the volatile tincture of valerian, and of this mixture a tea-spoonful in a glass of wine or water is to be taken three or four times a day. For the relief of those peculiar affec- tions of the stomach and bowels, such as in- digestion, &c., which generally accompany ner- vous diseases. Volatile Fetid Tincture. Infuse 2 ozs. of asafoetida in one pint of volatile aromatic spirit for eight days in a close bottle, fre- quently shaking it; then strain the tincture. This medicine is beneficial in hysteric disorders, especially when attended with lowness of spirits and faintings. A tea-spoonful of it may be taken in a glass of wine or a cup of penny- royal tea. Volatile Tincture of Gum Guaiacum. Take of gum guaiacum 4 ozs.; volatile aromatic spirit, ] pint. Infuse without heat in a vessel well stopped for a few days; then strain off the tincture. In rheumatic complaints a tea-spoon- ful of this tincture may be taken in a cup of the infusion of water trefoil twice or thrice a day. TINDER. Since the introduction of lucifer matches the old tinder-box, with its steel, flint, and brimstone matches, is becoming a mere matter of history, and has probably never been seen even by some of our readers. A round tin box containing some tinder, formed by burning a rag until reduced to a black mass, and then the burning extinguished by putting over it a tin lid fitting inside the box, was kept by every cook and housemaid thirty years ago. A steel held in one hand, and struck by a sharp-edged flint, shed sparks which, falling into the tinder, ignited it sufficiently to kindle into a flame the sulphur attached to the end of a sharp-pointed deal match. TIPSY CAKE (1). Pour over a sponge cake, made in the form of a porcupine, as much white wine as it will absorb, and stick it all over with blanched sweet almonds cut like straws ; or pour wine in the same manner over a thick slice of sponge cake, cover the top of it with preserved strawberries or raspberries, and stick cut almonds all round it. TIPSY CAKE (2). Make a sponge cake, and soak it for some hours in white wine, with a glass of brandy added to it. When quite soft have some almonds ready blanched, and stick them all round the cake, so as to give it the appearance of a porcupine ; cut some citron-peel into very narrow strips, and put a circle round the cake so as to form loops. Have a custard ready, and when the cake is placed on the dish in which it is to be sent to table pour the custard round, but not over it. The following is the receipt for the custard :—One pint and a half of new milk and half a pint of cream, boiled with white sugar and laurel leaves. When almost cold stir in the yolks of six eggs very much beaten, and keep it near a slow fire till it thickens, stirring it one way all the time, but do not let it boil. TOAST. {See Breakfast.) To save butter, and to avoid the indigestion usually produced by toast soaked in oiled butter, it is a good plan to sprinkle the toast plentifully with boiling water before applying the butter. TOAST IN A MIISUTE, or Italian Toast. Cut some slices of bread half an incli thick, and fry them in sweet oil—let them be dry and crisp ; lay them on a dish, spread over them any light farce you may think proper, pour over them an appropriate sauce, and serve them. TOAST, POUNDED. Pound together a piece of puff paste, a cold roasted veal kidney, some of the fat, a few bitter almonds, orange flowers, lemon-peel, preserved citron, a pinch of salt, and a little sugar; bind these together with the whites of four eggs beaten well, spread this preparation over slices of bread cut as for toast, and bake them. TOAST, PUFFED. Pound together the breast of a roasted fowl, some beef marrow, and Parmesan cheese, and mix with this paste five eggs, the yolks well beaten, and the whites beaten to a froth; spread it over slices of fried bread, egg them, and strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over; bake them a little while, and serve them with a good relisliing sauce. TOAST WITH SAGE AND ONIONS. Half boil some sage and onions in two waters, then fry them in butter, and season with pepper and salt: lay the mixture on buttered toast, with brown gravy. It is very good with mustard and apple sauce. A little water in which aspagagus or peas have been boiled, poured upon the toast, is an improvement, or the toast may be dipped in the water. TOAST, SPANISH. Roll out some almond paste nearly an inch thick; cut it into pieces about two inches square, and press them down with a square piece of wood a little smaller than the paste, which will leave the edges higher than the rest; bake them, and when cold pour in any prepared cream you please as high as the borders. Ice and colour them with a salamander. TOAST, SWEET. Boil a stick of cinna-TOM TO A [ 494 ] iTioii, a piece of lemon-peel, and a little sugai" in tliree-fourths of a pint of water for ten minutes ; let it cool, then add to it three eggs well beaten, and three large spoonsful of flour; Leat them well together, then add three more yolks of eggs, and boil the whole over a fire till it almost thickens to a paste. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, drop the mixture in with a tea- spoon, and fry a delicate brown. Sugar may be added if prefei-red. TOAST AND WATER. Take a piece of the upper crust of bread cut about twice the usual thickness for toast, and toast it carefully till it is browned all over, but not at all blackened or burnt; put it in a jug, and immediately pour on as much boiling water as you wish; cover the jug, and let it stand till cold. The fresher made the better. A bit of fresh-pared lemon-peel or dried orange-peel in- fused with the water is a grateful addition, and makes a very pleasant summer drink. It may 1)6 drunk freely without danger ; but cold water just taken from the pump cannot. This is decidedly the best way of making it; but if wanted immediately toast a small piece of white bread till very dry and bi'own, but do not burn it; put it immediately into a jug of cold spring water or distilled water, cover it with a plate, and let it stand a little before you use it. See Invalids, Cookery for. TOASTS, GENOA. Lard a French roll partly with anchovies and partly with ham ; cut tlie roll into slices, lay on each a thin slice of bacon, dip them into batter, and fry them. Drain, and serve with ravigote. TOBACCO is an annual plant, a native of America, from whence it was brought into Europe about the year 1560. It is sometimes cultivated in our gardens, but for general use is imported from Virginia in large quantities. The leaves are about two feet long, of a pale green colour while fresh, and when carefully dried they have a yellowish tint. They have a strong, disagreeable, narcotic smell, and a very acrid burning taste. On the living body, whether taken into the stomach in substance or solution, or into the lungs in the form of smoke, or applied to abraded surfaces, tobacco is capable of producing deleterious effects. It often proves virulently cathartic or emetic, and occasions intolerable cardialgia, anxiety, and vertigo. The system becomes easily habituated to the action of tobacco, and many people use very large quantities of it in several ways as a luxury, without experiencing any other bad effect than what arises from their being unable to rslinquish the habit after it is confirmed. As a medicine it is exhibited in various forms. 1. In substance. When chewed it causes an increased flow of saliva, and sometimes relieves the toothache ; and reduced to powder it pi'oves an excellent eiThine and sternutatory when snuffed up the nostrils. 2. In infusion in water or wine: taken in such small doses as to have little effect on tlie stomach it proves powerfully diuretic, and was employed by Dr. Fowler witii very great success in cases of dropsy and dysuria. An infusion of not more than 30 grains in 12ozs. of boiling water is often used as a clyster, half being given at a time, in obstinate constipation, ileus, and incarcerated hernia ; and it has been recommended in all cases where it is an object to . reduce the vital powers. The infusion is also applied externally for the cure of psora, tinea, and other cutaneous diseases. 3. In the form of smoke it is injected into the anus by means of a bellows of a peculiar construction. By acting as a stimulus to the rectum it sometimes succeeds in I'eviving the vital powers in some kinds of asphyxia, and in evacuating the intestines in cases of obstinate constipation. TOFFY. See Taffet. TOKAY WINE, HOME-MADE. Take fine grapes that are perfectly ripe, pick them carefully from the stalks, omitting all that are blemished, put them into a large hair sieve, and place over a large deep pan or a clean tub : mash the grapes with your hands, squeezing and pressing out all the juice. To every quart of juice allow 1 lb. of sultana I'aisins chopped small, or of bloom raisins seeded and chopped. Let the grape juice and raisins stand twelve days, stirring two or three times every day; then strain the liquor into a cask, but do not stop it closely till after three days ; let it stand eight months, and then bottle it. If it is not clear take out a pint of wine, mix with it ^ oz. of isinglass shaved finely, or 1 oz. of powdered gum arable; set it in a warm place, and when dissolved add 1 oz. of fine chalk. Tins will be sufficient to fine a barrel of wine. Stir it lightly into the rest. Let it stand three or four days, and then bottle it. TOLU. See Balsam of Tolu and Tinc- tures. TOMATO CATSUP. Take tomatoes when fully ripe, bake them in a jar till tender, strain them, and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice add a pint of chilli vinegar, 1 oz. of shallots, i oz. of garlic (both sliced), ^ oz. of salt, and } oz. of white pepper finely powdered; boil the whole till every ingredient is soft, and rub it again through a sieve. To eveiy pound add the juice of three lemons, and boil it again to the consistence of cream. ^^beu cold bottle it, put a small quantity ofT 0 M [ 495 ] TON STveet oil in eacli, tic bladders over, and keep in a dry place. TOMATO SAUCE. Stew six tomatoes in an oven till quite soft, take out tlie pulp witli a tea-spoon, and add Caj'enne and vinegar till of the consistence of thick cream. TOMATO SAUCE, ITALIAN. Take five or six onions, slice and put them into a sauce- pan, with a little thj'me, bay leaf, twelve or fifteen tomatoes, a bit of butter, salt, half a dozen berries of allspice, a little Indian saffron, and a glass of stock: set the whole on the fire, taldng care to stir it frequently, as it is apt to stick. When you perceive the sauce is tolerably thick strain it like a puree. TOMATO SOUP. Wash, scrape, and cut small the red part of three large carrots, three heads of celery, four large onions, and two large turnips; put them into a saucepan, with a table-spoonful of butter and ^ lb. of new lean ham; let them stew gently for an -hour, then add three quarts of brown gravy soup and some ■whole black pepper, with eight or ten ripe tomatoes ; let the whole boil an hour and a half, and pulp it through a sieve. Serve it with fried bread cut in dice. TOMATOES, GARNITURE OF. Take thirty tomatoes, all as nearly of a size as possible, and of a good form ; cut them in halves, press out all the juice, seeds, and pieces by the side of the stalk, but do it with great care, lest the skins should be injured. Make a farce as follows :—Take a little parsley, thyme, shallots, champignons, the yolks of two hard eggs, crumb of bread, anchovy, butter, salt, nutmeg, and allspice; give all these a boil, pound them ■well, adding at times a little oil, and strain through a quenelle sieve. Fill the tomatoes with this farce, place them on a baking tin, cover them with grated bread and Parmesan cheese, moisten them with a little oil, and bake them in a hot oven. Serve the tomatoes as a garnish to rump of beef, or any joint you may think proper. TOMATOES, PRESERVED (1). A suffi- cient quantity of salt is dissolved in spring or river water to make it sti'ong enough to bear an egg. Select perfectly ripe tomatoes, and place them carefully, without pressing them, in a stone or glazed earthen pot, covered with a deep plate in sucli a manner that it pi'esses upon the fruit. By this simple process tomatoes may be preserved more than a year without attention. Before cooking them they should be soaked in fresh water for several hours. TOMATOES, PRESERVED (-3). Gather them carefully without bruising, put them in a stone jar, and pour in strong brine to the top, putting on a light weight to keep them gently pressed down below the surface of the brine. Soak them in fresh water, and cook them in the usual way. Season to suit the taste as when fresh from the vine. TONBRIDGE WELLS, a populous village in the county of Kent, about tliirty-six miles south of London, contains many chalybeate springs resemblnig each other in chemical composition. Two are chiefly appropriated to medical use, and they afford an abundant supply of water for the numerous invalids who yearly resort to this watering-place. The sensible properties of this water, when first taken up at the reservoir, are the follow- ing:—It is colourless, clear and bright, and has no perceptible smell. It does not sparkle in the glass, but it slowly separates a few air- bubbles, which adhere to the sides of the vessel. It has, in a slight degree, a ferruginous taste, without any saline or acidulous impression. If exposed to the air for some hours the dis engagement of minute air-bubbles increases, the liquid grows turbid, a yellowish iridescent pellicle incrusts the surface, and in twenty-four hours the water has entirely lost its chaly- beate impregnation. This effect takes place more speedily when the water is heated. The contents of a wine gallon of Tonbridge ■water, according to Dr. Scudamore's analysis, are the following: — Grains. Chloride of sodium . . . 1-20 Sulphate of soda . . . . 1-47 Cliloride of calcium . . , 1-54 Chloride of magnesium , . . '29 Carbonate of lime . . . '27 Oxide of iron . . . . 2-29 Traces of manganese (insoluble mattor) -44 Loss, &c. . . , . , •}3 , 7-68 Cubic inches. Carbonic acid gas . . . 8-05 Azote . . . . . 275 Atmospherical air . . . 2-50 13-30 The analysis of the Tonbridge springs shows it to be a simple carbonated chalybeate water. It is, therefore, purely a tonic. All waters of this description are more invigorating, in pro- portion to the iron they hold in solution, than any artificial preparation of this metal, jiarticu- larly in a solid form. This advantage arises, in all probability, from the diluting principle of the water, whereby the chalybeate is rendered more diffusible, and on that account more efficient on the system. Soon after taking a moderate dose the strength of the pulse is increased, and a certain degree of warmth is felt, occasioned by the accelerated circulation; and by persevering in the use ol theTON TON r 496 ] ■water the appetite and spirits are improved. These effects are most obvious in irritable and sanguine habits. On commencing a course of this water it is not uncommon for the invaUd to experience nausea, vomiting, and pain about the heart, or else a heaviness in the head, slight giddiness, and a sense of fulness over the whole body, which symptoms, however, soon disappear; but should they continue, the use of the water must then be abandoned. TONGUE: To Boil. A dry one must be steeped in water all night, and then boiled for three hours. If it is to be served up hot it must be stuck with cloves ; then rub it over with yolk of egg, strew upon it some bread crumbs, and baste it with butter; set it before the fire till it takes a light brown coloui', and when dished up pour to it a little brown gravy or red wine sauce. Garnish it all round with slices of currant jelly. If the tongue is pickled it must be washed out with water. TONGUE : To Carve. This must be cut crossways in the line a b, taking a slice from thence. The most tender and juicy slices are about the centre, or between the line a b and the root. For the fat and kernel with it, cut off a slice of the root on the right of the point h at the bottom. TONGUE : To Pickle. Take a fine neat's tongue, and put it in the following pickle:— Four gallons of water, 4 lbs. of common salt, the same of bay salt, ^ lb. of saltpetre, 2 ozs. of sal prunella, 1 oz. of alum, and 1 lb. of coarse sugar. Boil these together, and skim well; lay in the tongue, and let it remain ten days, turning it two or three times in that period. Dry the tongue by a wood fire. TONGUE : To Roast. Parboil the tongue in salt and water till it will peel easily ; add thereto some whole pepper, an onion, carrot, a few cloves, and a little thyme. On taking out the tongue lard it with bacon, roast, and baste it often until done. Serve it with gravy in the dish, and sweet sauce separately. TONGUE: To Stew. Rub for a week with salt and saltpetre, taking care to turn it every day; boil it sufficiently tender to admit the skin to come off easily. When done stew it in a moderately strong gravy, season it with soy, mushroom catsup, Cayenne pepper, pounded cloves, and if necessary some salt. Serve it up with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. If the tongue is to be eaten cold it must be seasoned with common salt, saltpetre, coarse sugar, a little bay salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice finely powdered, and remain therein a fortnight; then remove the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, lay some butter on it, cover it with brown crust, and bake it slowly till the tongue may be penetrated with a straw. Observe that the fleshy part of the tongue, if hung up to dry, will grate like hung beef, and give a good flavour to omelets. In this as well as in Pickling Tongue, it will be necessary to take off the roots of the tongues before salting them, leaving a little of the fat. TONGUE, FRICASSEE OF. Take a neat's tongue, remove the root, and boil it till tender; then clear off the skin, and cut in slices ; fry them in butter, which must be poured off, and as much gravy substituted for it as will be needed for sauce. ' Garnish with lemon. TONGUE, POTTED. Do it as for pickling. When it has lain its proper time cut off the root, and boil it until it will peel; then season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, and cloves, all beaten finely ; rub the seasoning while it is hot, put it into a pan, pour some melted butter over it, and send it to the oven : an hour is sufficient to bake it. When done let it stand to cool, rub a little more spice over it, and lay it in the pot it is to be kept in. When the butter it was baked in is cold take it from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over the tongue: if there is not sufficient to cover it more must be added. The butter must be an inch higher than the tongue. TONGUE, STEWED. Let it simmer for two hours in just sufficient water to cover it; then peel it, and put it in the liquor again, with some salt, mace, cloves, and whole pepper tied in a bit of muslin, a few capers, turnips cut in very small pieces, carrots sliced, half a pint of beef gravy, a little wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew gently until tender; then take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. TONGUE AND UDDER, ROASTED. Parboil the tongue and udder, stick in them ten or twelve cloves, roast them, baste them with red wine, and froth them nicely with a bit of butter. Serve with gravy and sweet sauce. The udder eats well boiled with the tongue. TONGUE AND UDDER, STUFFED. Boil the tongue and udder till tender; peel the tongue, and stick it with a few cloves ; raise the udder, wash the inside with yolk of egg, make a good forcemeat of veal, and fill the udder;TON [ 427 ] TON lie tlie ends tightly. Roast the tongue and udder. Baste them with red wine and butter. Serve with good gravy and currant jelly. For other methods of dressing tongue see Neat's Tongues. TONGUES : To RECDirN. Get the largest sheep, lambs, calves, or pigs' tongues; rub them with sugar for two days, then with salt, and put them into the following piclde for a fortnight:—Boil two quarts of water with 1 lb. of sugar, saltpetre and prunella, of each 1 oz., with i oz. of cloves and sweet herbs. Leave them from ten to fourteen days in the pickle ; cook them in a braise of sweet herbs and a spoonful of red sanders wood: it is not neces- sary that they should boil. If they come to a simmer, and keep upon it, they will only require half an hour. l)ip them into boiling water to take off the sanders, let them cool upon a cullender, peel and glaze them, and serve hot or cold in a savoury jelly. These are the least expensive dishes, if the cook takes care to save them from her ordinary dinner. Sheep's tongues can be always had at the West End for 2s. 6d. per dozen. Three or four tongues make a hand- some dish, and if nicely dished upon turnips might often take the place, with propriety, of a 5s. or 6s. tongue. Dish them on turnips, sauer- kraut, red cabbage, potatoes, or one in the middle of a white mince ; or dish them in a rosette, with lettuce between, with the roots of the tongues and the stocks of the lettuce out; or shape turnips, glaze them, and dish them in the same way, with a tuft of fried parsley in the middle; or dab them nicely with lard before they are braised, cut them open, and serve them hot in any of the above ways, or as a garnish to roast chicken. TONGUES : To Salt. Throw over them a little salt, next scrape them clean, and then rub them with a mixture of salt and saltpetre; lay them in a pan, and turn thein daily for a week, after which salt them again, and let them remain another week. Take them up, dry them in a cloth, and having floured them, hang them up, or you may keep them in pickle. TONGUE-TIE. There is very frequently attached to the frrenum of the tongues of new- born children a nearly transparent whitish membrane, which pursues the natural fifenum through its wdiole course, and continues beyond the point where the fraenum stops, and ter- minates near the extremity of the tongue itself, so that the tongue is tied down as it were to its proper bed. In consequence of this disposition of the fraenum the child cannot elevate the tongue, or protrude it beyond the lips, and, in its at- tempts to suck, it cannot apply it with sufficient force or certainty to the nipple to make a com- VOL. II. plete exhaustion; therefore it can suck but imperfectly', and this is accompanied by a clucking kind of noise. Whenever this is observed the mouth should be examined, and it will almost always be found in the situation just described, but not necessarily, as there may be clucking without this membrane; but this membrane, we believe, is never without the cluckiug. This membrane is easily discovei'ed by pro- voking the child to cry, or by elevating the point of the tongue by the extremity cf the little finger. In making the attempt to raise the tongue the child is almost sure to cry, and then this membrane is readily discovered, as it is now fully upon the stretch. This defect is easily remedied. It should be done in the following manner:—Let the child be laid across the lap of the nurse, with its face towards a proper light; the operator must stand behind the head, so that he does not interrupt the light. The chin of the child must be gently depressed by tlie forefinger of the nurse. When the chin is thus depressed the little finger of the left hand of the operator must be insinuated between the side of the tongue near its tip, and the inner corresponding portion of the jaw, until it can lift up the point of the tongue, which being done, the membrane is immediately brought into view, and that upon the stretch; or, should the child now begin to cry, as it almost always does, the operator can easily place his finger under the tongue, and keep this false frasnum tense, while, by a single stroke directly across it by a sharp gum lancet, he divides it to the true fraenum. The opera- tion is then finished. We have never known it necessary to repeat this operation. The incision through the membrane never yields more than a small drop of blood: no hemorrhage can ensue, as this tissue is but very slightly vascular. TONICS are medicines which give strength and vigour to the body. Draughts. Take of decoction of cinchona 1| fluid oz.; lance-leaved cinchona bark, 1 scruple ; compound tincture of cinchona, 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught: it may be given three times a day. Or, take of decoction of cinchona ]|- fluid oz.; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 minims ; compound tincture of cin- chona, 2 fluid drachms. Make a draught: to be taken as the preceding. Mixture. Take of decoction of cinchona 5^ fluid ozs. ; lance-leaved cinchona bark, 4 scruples; compound tincture of cinchona, ^ fluid oz. Mix them : three table-spoonsful to be given three or four times a day. Pills. Take of extract of cinchona 2 drachms; sulphate of iron, 15 grains ; syrup of S KT 111 [ 408 ] TOO gmger, a sufEcient quantity. Make twelve pills out of each drachm : three to be taken twice a day. Powder. Take of lance-leaved cinchona Lark 1 drachm. Make a powder : to be taken three times a day with milk, peppermint water, or red port wine, and every second hour in the absence of the fits of intermittent fevers. TOOTHACHE. If your tooth is hollow, stop it; that is, fill the hollow with common yellow bees' wax to e.Kclude the air, and keep a piece of the wax in your pocket to replace it when necessary. Having done this, if the pain continues, and the gum is inflamed, hold in your mouth some bread-and-milk poultice very hot. If these remedies fail have the tooth extracted. If the tooth is not decayed take a dose of opening medicine ; and so soon as the pain ceases take a grain of sulphate of quinine, and repeat this dose of the sulphate for three or four mornings following, always taking it whilst free from pain. The following treatment has also been at- tended with success :— When the pain first darts, as it were, into the jaw, as soon as it is ascertained that it does not arise from a decayed tooth, the feet should be bathed in very hot water, the bowels tho- roughly emptied, and a pill containing calomel, tartar emetic, and opium exhibited at bed- time in such proportions as the strength and the habit of the patient admit of and require. A grain of each will be near a medium. As soon as the pain regularly intermits, the Peru- vian bark should be administered during the intervals of ease, in as large doses and as fre- quently repeated as it can be taken, either alone or combined with spirit of turpentine. But if the bark in substance or in decoction nauseate the stomach, the sulphate of quinine, which is the true essence of the bark, may be substituted for it. Bark in every form, however, sometimes proves unavailing, in which cases arsenic has been successfully administered ; but, as this remedy requires a degree of caution which few are disposed to bestow, we would suggest a trial of the subcarbonate of iron, from the powerful influence it has displayed in tic douloureux—a nervous affection, to which rheumatic toothache bears some resemblance. Whatever may be the remedy, it should be exhibited with proper care and caution. The strictest attention ought to be paid to the diet and regimen. Night air, exposure to dew, or to easterly winds ought to be avoided; and when the attack is removed, the use of the head-bath—that is, cold water poured over the head every morning—will be the most effectual means of preventing its recurrence. Its attacks are most prevalent at the season when evening parties commence; and, as it is most common in young females in the better ranks of life, we must ascribe it to the exposure of the unshawled shoulders to currents of air on staircases and landing-places, in those gregarious assemblages of fashion in which, to use the words of a dramatist, our countrywomen " turn their skins to parchment." TOOTH-BRUSH. If this is used employ a very soft brush, avoid coarse tooth powders, and rinse the mouth with tepid water. TORTOISE-SHELL. When combs and ornaments of this material are broken the pieces, it is said, may be thus soldered together:— Bi'ing the edges of the pieces of shell to fit each other, observing to give the same inclination of grain to each; then secure them in a piece of paper, and place them between hot ii'ons or pincers; apply pressure, and let them cool. Take care that the heat is not too great, or it will burn the shell; therefore ti'y the irons first on a piece of white paper. TOUCHMATGH. See Boletus Tinder. TOURTE D'ENTREE. Take a small par- tridge and a small snipe, each cut in halves, two quails, six larks, the loins and legs of a wild rabbit, and four truffles, each cut into five slices; put all these into a pan, with butter and sweet herbs; season them, and set them on the fire. When all above are warmed through take off the pan, and leave them to cool. In the meantime prepare your tourte, and lay the game in the form of a dome, filling up the spaces with the herbs in which the articles were dressed ; cover it in the usual way, and bake it in a brisk oven for an hour and a half. When done pour in some Espagnole, mixed with a fumet of game and truffles. TOUS LES MOIS. This is said to be prepared from the main root of Canna coccinea. It resembles arrowroot in most respects, but rather less of it is required, and the jelly is less transparent and more pasty. It is manufactured chiefly at St. Kitt's. TRACING PAPER. See Copying Paper. TRAGACANTH. See Cement, Gum. TREACLE BEER. See Beer, Treacle. TREACLE PUDDING. Mix together 1 lb. of stoned raisins, i lb. of shred suet, 1 lb. of flour, a pint of milk, a table-spoonful of treacle, grated ginger, and pounded spice. When well stirred up tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it four hours. TRIFLE (1). Cover the bottom of a dish with Naples biscuits and macaroons broke in halves, wet with brandy and white wine poured over them, cover them with patches of jam, and fill the dish with a good custard; then whip up a syllabub, drain the froth on a sieve, put it ou the custard, and strew comfits over all.[ 499 ] TRO TEI TRIFLE (2). Sweeten three pints of cream, add to it ^ lb. of sherry wine, grate in the rind of a lemon, squeeze in the juice, and grate half a nutmeg ; whisk this up; lay the froth on a large sieve, and the sieve on a dish that has ratafia calces, macaroons, blanched almonds pounded, candied orange-peel cut into small pieces, some currant jelly, and raspberry jam, that the liquor may run upon them. When they are soaked lay them in the dish j'ou intend to serve in, put on the froth (well drained) as high as possible, strew over nonpareils, and stick on little slices of citron, orange, or lemon-peel. TRIFLE (3). Put i lb. of macaroons into a dish, pour over them some white wine, and a pint of custard over that: make a whip, and put on it. Garnish according to your fancy. TRIFLE BISCUIT. Soak sponge biscuits in sherbet till they will absorb no more, lay them in a dish, and pour round them the custard, or cream, sugar, and lemon juice well whisked. Just before the trifle is served sprinkle over it some nonpareils or comfits, or stick a few blanched almonds into it. Macaroons or rata- fias may be used instead of biscuits. TRIFLE CAKE. Cut out a rice or diet- bread cake about two inches from the edge, fill it with a rich custard, with a few blanched and split almonds, and pieces of raspberry jam, and put on the whole a high whip. TRIPE : To Boil. Cut the tripe in pieces ahout four inches square, then peel as many onions as will be necessary, and boil the whole together in water and milk, with a little salt. When tender take up the tripe and onions, and serve them in a tui-een. The more the onions are boiled the milder they will prove. TRIPE : To Fry in Batter. Having cut the tripe in pieces as before, dip them in light brown batter, and fry them in boiling lard till lightly browned. Or, rub the tripe with yolks of eggs, strew over it bread crumbs, with chopped parsley, and then fry it. Serve with fried onions. TRIPE, BREADED. Cut your tripe into small square pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter, with parsley, salt, and pepper ; roll each bit in grated bread, and broil them slowly. When done serve them with slices of lemon. TRIPE FRICASSEE. Cut the tripe into small pieces, and put them into a small stewpan, with as much white wine as will cover them, white pepper, shred ginger, a blade of mace, some sweet herbs, and an onion; stew the whole for a quarter of an hour ; then take out the herbs and onions, and put in a little parsley, lemon juice, half an anchovy cut small, a glass of cream, and either the yolk of an egg or a piece of butter. Garnish the dish with lemon. TRIPE, IRISH. Cut a piece of double tripe into square pieces ; peel and wash ten large onions, cut each in two, boil them in a little water till tender, and then put in the tripe. When it has boiled ten minutes pour off all the liquor, shake a little flour into it, add some butter, mustard, and salt, and shake the whole over the fire till the butter is melted ; then dish and serve as hot as possible, garnished with sliced lemon or barberries. TRIPE, SOUSED. Half boil the tripe, put it into boiling water, which must he fre- quently changed, and when you dress it dip it into a batter made of flour and eggs, and fry it brown. TRIPE, STEWED. Cut 1 lb. of tripe into pieces, and put them into a small saucepan, with half a pint of milk, 3 ozs. of rice, a little allspice, celery pounded, and a little celery seed tied in a bit of muslin; let the whole stew gently for four hours, and serve. TRIPOLI. See Rotten-stone. TROUT. This fish is held in great estima- tion as a fresh-water fish, and when good is of a flesh colour, and the spots upon it are very bright. The female is considered the best, and is known by the head being smaller, and the body being deeper than that of the male. It is most in season during the month of June. TROUT : To Choose. The colour of the fish as well as its flavour varies exceedingly in different waters. The body is long, the head is short and roundish, the tail broad, and the mouth large. It seldom exceeds 4 lbs. in weight, and in general is much less. The flesh is extremely fine. There is a species called the white trout, the flesh of which, when dressed, becomes pei-fectly red, and it is more valued for its delicacy of flavour than the former. TROUT, BOILED. Boil them with some vinegar in water, salt, and a bit of horseradish, and serve with white sauce or plain melted butter. TROUT, COLLARED. They are done in the same manner as eels are collared. TROUT, FRIED. After they are well scaled, gutted, and washed, dry them, rub them with yolk of egg, flour or strew fine crumbs of bread over, and fry them of a fine colour. Serve with crisp parsley and plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce. TROUT, MARINATED. Fry some trout in a sufficient quantity of oil to cover them, putting them in when the oil is boiling ; as soon as they are crisp take them out, and lay them to drain till they are cold ; then make a marinade of equal quantities of white wine and vinegar, with some salt, whole pepper, nutmeg, sliced ginger.[ 500 ] TRO TEU cloves, mace, savoiy, sweet niaijoram, thyme, rosemary, bay leaf, and two onions; let all these boil together for a quarter of an hour ; put the fish in a pan, pour the marinade to them hot, put in as much oil as vinegar and wliite wine, which must be according to the quantity offish, as there should be a sufficient quantity of liquor to cover them ; they will then keep for a month. Serve with oil and vinegar. TROUT PIE. Nicely lard a couple of trout with eels; raise a crust, and put a layer of fresh butter at the bottom; make a forcemeat of trout, mushrooms, truffles, morels, and fresh butter ; season with salt, pepper, and spice, and bind it with the yolks of two raw eggs ; stuff the trout with this forcemeat, then lay them in the pie upon the butter, and cover them with butter; put on the lid, and send it to the oven. When done pour in some good fish gravy. TROUT, SOUSED. Well wash a couple of trout; then take three pints of white wine vinegar, a quart of water, an onion stuck with cloves, a little lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet hei-bs, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace : boil all these together in a large stewpan, and when they have boiled some time put in the fish. As soon as they are done lay them in a dish till they are cold, pour off the liquor, take out the onion and herbs, and let it stand till cold; then take off all the fat, and pour the liquor over the fish: they will be ready for use the next day. If sent to table hot serve with shrimp or lobster sauce, made with the pickle, and garnish the dish with fried smelts. They are very good served cold. TROUT, STEWED. Take a small trout, and stuff it with grated bread, a bit of butter, parsley chopped, lemon-peel grated, pepper, salt, rutmeg, and savoury herbs; bind with yolk of egg, put it into a stewpan, with a quart of good boiled gravy, some Madeira wine, an onion, a little whole pepper, a few cloves, and a piece of lemon-peel ; let all stew gently till done, then thicken with a little flour mixed in some cream, and a little catsup; boil it up, and squeeze in a little lemon juice. TROUT WITH TRUFFLES. When scaled and cleaned lard them with truffles, and fill each with some fine truffle farce; then braise them in wine, with truffles, white onions, artichoke bottoms, salt, and pepper. Serve them with a ragout of sliced truffles. TRUFFLE OMELET. Fry your omelet as usual, and when nearly done take out with a spoon the thick part of the middle, and put in its place some truffles lightly fried in a little Espagnole. As soon as the omelet is finished lay it on a dish, mince two truffles very small, give them a few turns over the fire in a little butter, add four ladlesful of Espagnole, and pour this sauce over the omelet TRUFFLE SAUCE (1). Mince two or three truffles very small, and toss them up lightly- in oil or butter according to your taste; then put to them four or five ladlesful of veloute and a spoonful of consomme; let them boil for a quarter of hour over a gentle fire, skim oif all the fat, and keep your sauce hot in the bain- marie. TRUFFLE SAUCE (2). Take eight truffles, clean and cut them round, and then cut them in thin slices in a stewpan; set them to stew gently with a small piece of butter; when well stewed add two table-spoonsful of con- somme, and let them simmer till nearly dry; then put in some bechamel sauce (the quantity must be regulated to what you want it for), make it very hot, squeeze in a little lemon juice, and it is then ready. If j'ou wish the sauce to be brown put in Espagnole instead of bechamel sauce. TRUFFLES. The truffle, like the mush- room, is a species of fungus, common in France and Italy. It generally grows eight or ten inches below the surface of the ground. As it imparts a most delicious flavour it is much used in cookery. Being dug out of the earth, it requires a great deal of washing and brushing before it can be applied to culinary purposes. When washed the water should be warm, and changed frequently. It loses much of its flavour ■when dried. TRUFFLES; To Keep. Make a choice of the blackest truffles, and let them be fresh gathered. When thoroughly washed and brushed peel them carefully with a sharp knife, reject all that are not perfectly sound, put them into bottles as closely as they will lie, cork them tightly, and boil them for an hour in the baiir- marie. TRUFFLES IN THE ASHES. Take twelve truffles dressed with champagne, have as many small slices of bacon as you have truffles, cut a quantity of square pieces of paper, and on some of these put a bit of bacon and a truffle, seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded spice; wrap in the bacon first, and then in the paper. When all are done dip each paper into cold water, and tlien put them into hot ashes like chestnuts. In an hour's time they will be sufficiently done. Take off the two outer coverings and serve. TRUFFLES WITH CHAMPAGNE. Take twelve cleaned truffles, put them into a stew- pan on rashers of bacon, add a bay leaf, a seasoned bouquet, a little grated bacon, some stock, a slice or two of ham, and a bottle of champagne; cover them with a piece of buttered paper, put on the lid, set the stewpan on hot ashes, put fire on the top, and let them stew for an hour. When doneTKU [ ] TRU drain them iu a clean cloth, and serve on a folded napkin. TRUFFLES, ITALIAN. Cut about a handful of truffles into dice, put them into a stewpan with a little butter, sweat them over a slow fire, and then moisten with half a glass of champagne and two spoonsful of reduced Espagnole; add some shred parsley, some shallots, salt, and pepper; give the whole a boil, take off all the fat, put in a few drops of oil, and serve. TRUFFLES IN A MINUTE. Take as many - well-washed truffles as you may require, slice them into a dish that will bear the fire, and add to them shred parsley, scallions, shallots, salt, pepper, and a little oil; cover your dish, and set it on the fire. When done serve with a little lemon juice. TRUFFLES, PIEDMONTESE. Mince your truffles as small as possible, pour some oil on a silver dish, on wliich put a layer of the truffles ; season with salt and pepper, then a layer of Parmesan cheese, and so on alternately until you have as much in your dish as you think proper, and set it in the oven for a quarter of an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them. TRUFFLES, PROVENCE. Cut some truffles into slices, and put them into a saucepan, with oil, parsley, two cloves of garlic, salt, and pepper: set them on hot ashes for an hour. In the meantime dissolve a good bit of butter rolled iu floui' in some good stock, then add half a glass of white wine, and let it boil for half an hour; take off all the fat, and when the truffles are done and di'ained serve them with the sauce poured over them. TRUFFLES, RAGOUT OF. Peel and slice twelve truffles, and put them into a saucepan with a little butter, parsley, scallions, half a clove of garlic, and two cloves; let them simmer a minute or two, with a spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, and another of stock; let the whole stew half an hour, clear off the fat, and serve it seasoned with salt and pepper. TRUFFLES EN SURPRISE. Take twelve large truffles of a good shape, and as nearly of a size as possible ; dress them in soaie champagne wine, drain, and let them cool; then place them on their flattest side, and with a root-cutter about an inch in diameter cut the top of these out with a knife point, and clear the remainder; fill up the space thus left with a puree of fowl, a salpicon, or any ragout or other puree of fowl or game mixed with bechamel, you may think proper. When all are filled cover the aperture with the pieces taken out, and serve your truffles either in a croustade or on a folded napkin. TRUFFLES, TOURTE OF. Take 2 lbs. of fine truffles, wash and pick them, and put them into a stewpan, with si.x; slices of ham, a veiy little carrot, a sliced onion, a bay leaf, sweet herbs in powder, salt, and cliampagne; lay I'ashers of bacon over the whole, and stew them to nearly a jelly. When cold put the truffles into a crust with all the seasoning, bake the tourte, and serve as usual. TRUSS. A truss of old hay must weigh 56 lbs.; but in June, July, and August a truss of the same year's hay ought to weigh 60 lbs. A truss of straw weighs 36 lbs. Thirty- six trusses are a load either of hay or straw. TRUSS. {See Hernia.) The truss is one of the most effectual remedies at present discovered for the treatment of rupture, and to whatever part it is to be applied the greatest care must be taken to fit it with every possible exactness. If this be not particularly attended to, the truss, instead of being useful, will be extremely injurious ; for the sole intent of these bandages is to press directly on the opening through which the gut descended, or was forced from its natural position. The strictest attention should therefore be paid, not only to the formation of the truss, but to its application. A cushion, or compress, possessing a suf- ficient degree of softness and resistance, should be intermediately placed between the pad of the truss and the groin, for the purpose of prevent- ing the unpleasant and sometimes painful sen- sation which takes place from the compression necessary to retain the ruptured parts, when reduced, in their natural situation, and more particularly so when the difficulty of retention requires an inward degree of pressure. Besides the other advantages arising from the use of this cushion, it forms a bed and a fixed point of support for the pad of the truss, and by that means renders the compression more permanent, equal, and certain, and also preserves the lining of the pad from being soiled by perspiration. Take three slips of coarse calico, twenty inches long and three inches in breadth, and fold them into a square form: for young persons and children the size must be in proportion. It too often happens that the person who makes the truss applies it, and this presumption on his part, and want of caution in the patient, seldom fail to do mischief. A man may be a good mechanic, and perform his work with aliility ; but he alone can apply the bandage with effect who is acquainted with the anatomy of the human frame. The patient should on no account apply the truss himself on the first appearance of the rupture, but in this particular instance submit entirely to the conduct of the sui'geon. It is his province to determine whether the whole of the intestines are returned, or a part remainsTUB [ 502 ] TUB in the opening through which they descended. In the latter case the surgeon knows the ap- plication of the truss would be highly injurious. But if the assistance of a surgeon cannot be had on the first appearance of the disease, the patient must give up all kind of exercise or labour. Every exertion, however trifling, only tends to force the intestines from their natural position, and increase the malady. Immediate rest becomes essential, and the position of the patient should be always with the head lower than the body. If the patient cannot sleep with a truss made with a steel band, a bandage composed of leather only, with the usual pad, may be used; and they have answered the purpose of keeping up the intestines, or parts contained in the rup- ture, during the night. By thus constantly wearing a bandage that will retain the intestines in their natural situation, an opportunity is given to the ring to contract, or produce such an alteration in the parts as to lay the foundation of more radical cures of this malady than have hitherto been supposed to have taken place. He must likewise take care to keep the pad from shifting, and steadily fixed on the aperture, to prevent a descent of the intestines. In a certain time he may be informed that he can sleep in safety without it, and it is possible this information may be correct; but, to avoid a return of the disease, which is a consequence that generally arises from a mistaken and pre- mature opinion, the patient should not remove the truss but when in bed and lying on his back, with his feet drawn close to the buttocks. Previously to his rising in the morning he must I'estore the truss to its former situation, and with as little motion as possible. In the act of rising, dressing, walking, &c. not the least violence must be used, but every move- ment of the patient must be dii'ected by gentleness and caution. TUBERCULAR PHTHISIS. {See Con- sumption.) We have omitted to recommend, under any previous heading, the use of cod- liver oil as a medicine to keep this disease in check. A small wine-glassful is taken daily. This oil is obtained from the livers of the com- mon cod [Gadus morrhiui), by exposing them to the sun, when, as the livers corrupt, the oil runs from them, and is collected in a vessel set to receive it, after which it is filtered and ex- ported. As thus prepared it is of a dark brown colour, owing to the presence of some of the solid matters of the fish in a state of decomposition. But it may be prepared nearly colourless by exposing the fresh livers of.the fish to the heat of a stove not exceeding 200° Fahrenheit, in an earthen pan or other vessel, when the oil runs out, and may be collected and filtered to sepai'ate any solid particles. Cod-liver oil con- tains a trace of iodine and bromine, which, how- ever, is too small to be of any activity as a medicine. It is employed intei'nally as a remedial agent in rheumatism and scrofula, requiring a long-continued use to prove suc- cessful. Dr. De Jongh says, " I rarely prescribe the cod-liver oil for children under six months old. After that period it can be safely administered, especially when several children of the same family are labouring under scrofulous disease, and hereditary predisposition to that malady may therefore be supposed to exist in the others. ' More than a tea-spoonful twice a day should not be given to children under a year old ; to children between two and four years old, two dessert-spoonsful a day; and to chil- dren above that age, a table-spoonful twice a day. In severe cases this quantity may even be taken three times a day. To adults I pre- scribe from two to six table-spoonsful a day, according to the urgency of the case. " In cases of insurmountable aversion to the taste of this oil, which are, however, of very rare occurrence, I have seen the happiest results attending its use in the form of an enema, tlie injection consisting of 2 ozs. of cod-liver oil and 2 ozs. of a solution of starch. For very young children half of this suffices. When used as a remedy for worms this method will be found to be particularly efficacious ; but it must on no account be resorted to in cases of diarrho3a. " I prescribe the cod-liver oil not only in- ternally, but also externally, for the cure of rheumatic and gouty pains, the swelling of the lymphatic glands, and the tumid belly of lickety children. Scrofulous ulcers may be dressed with compresses saturated with cod-liver oil, and similar pads of lint applied loosely to the affected parts in cases of scrofulous skin dis- eases or scrofulous affections of the joints. Fresh compresses should always be applied every two or three hours. I have also most successfully applied the oil externally in cases of scrofulous ophthalmia. " Diarrhoea proceeding from an irritation of the intestinal canal, haemoptysis, and derange- ment of the digestive functions, require the immediate suspension of the cod-liver oil treat- ment until these disorders be removed by proper remedies. " In order completely to eradicate a scrofu-' lous or rheumatic habit, the treatment with the cod-liver oil should be continued uninterruptedly at least during an entire year. I would espe- cially recommend that for children of scrofulous habits its use should be combined with that of hop, camomile, and potash baths. Of late years I have recognised the salutary effects of suaTUR TUN [ 503 ] lathing, -when prescribed simultaneously vi'iih. cod-liver oil, in the majority of scrofulous affec- tions." TUNBRIDGE CAKES. Two quarts of fine flour, i lb. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, three yolks of eggs, 1 oz. of cai'away seeds, and a sufBcient quantity of new milk and yeast made warm. Make these ingredients into a stiff paste, let it rise, and form it into cakes. TUNNY. This salt-water fish is very seldom seen in England. When fresh it is stewed with butter, and parsley and scallions shred ; it is then breaded and browned with a salamander. It may also be boiled like fresh salmon. The tunny, however, is most commonly pickled, and served cold in a salad. TURBITH MINERAL. {See Mercury.) Turbith mineral is a powerful emetic, and has been given with frequent success in doses of from 1^ to 6 or 8 grains to robust persons who were afflicted with leprous diseases, and glandular obstructions that had resisted the power of other medicines. It has also been recom- mended, in doses amounting from 6 grains to 1 scruple every day, in cases of hydrophobia; and some instances have occurred in which it not only prevented madness in dogs that had been bitten, but also effected a cure after the disease had actually taken place. Lastly, the water in which this mineral is washed has been used externally for lotions in the itch and other cutaneous affections; but such pi'actice ought never to be adopted without proper advice, as it may be attended with danger. tURBOT : To Bake. Wash your fish in several waters, dry it, and soak it in melted but- ter, with sweet herbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; in half an hour put the whole into a baking dish, envelope it in bread crumbs, and bake it. TURBOT . To BoTL. If the turbot is thick according to the size, cut away from two to four inches of the back fin, and slit it into the bone. Be careful not to slit the belly, as it is the fattest part of the fish, and would destroy the flavour by letting out the finest part of the juice. Besides, it does not require cooking as the thick part does, and it would be better for being farced, to prevent its cooking too much. Bind up the head with a needle, lay it on a very flat thin drainer, and cover it entirely with what it is to be cooked in—water, milk and water, wine and water, stock, court bouillon, or braise. To make it very white it may be rubbed with lemon, or a little alum dissolved in water. When the weather is cool let it come very slowly to the boil, skim, and set it to simmer, but in hot weather it must come to the boil quicker, to prevent its souring, which sometimes happens by being long in an equal low heat. The safest way of using lemon is, after the fish is coolted and set over the water, rub it, and lay thin slices over it to serve ; plunge it again into the water, wipe it with a sponge, and dvy the drainer well with a cloth, so that the puffed napkin into which it is to be dished may not be soiled. Garnish with crayfish, horseradish, and beet-root, or nasturtium flowers and parsley intermixed with finely cut lemon-peel, or lemon in slices, &c. These may be dressed in a wreath, patches, or fancifully strewn over the whole, as an intimation to the carver that the skin is broken, not to expose it, as nothing in fish-dressing looks worse. Farced eels, fried oysters in butter, small fish patties, balls, and eggs, may all be used for garnishing fish. The sauces in general use are lobster, oyster, and anchovy. These ought to be made of the finest cream or gravy and butter. TURBOT, BREADED. Prepare a small turbot as \isual, slit it across the back, and soak it in melted butter or lemon juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper ; cover the fish with bread crumbs, and boil it. When done squeeze the lemon or Seville orange juice over it, and serve. TURBOT A LA CREME. Put into a saucepan ^ lb. of butter, a dessert-spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of milk, or more if necessary; set it on the fire, and keep stir- ring till sufficiently smooth and of the right con- sistence. Take a ready-dressed turbot, cut it into pieces, and put them into another sauce- pan ; pour the sauce over them, make the whole quite hot, and then serve. TURBOT, FILLETS OF. Cut the fillets from a turbot dressed in coui-t bouillon; dis- solve some butter with an anchovy, shred parsley, sweet herbs, salt, nutmeg, and pepper; add a glass of cream, put in the fillets, stir them gently over the fire till the sauce is thick and smooth, and then serve. TURBOT GLACfi. Take off the scales, tail, and fins of the turbot, and lard it wiih bacon ; put it into a stewpan, with a pint or more of wine, two slices of lemon, five or six onions sliced, pepper, and salt ; set it on a moderate fire, and when about two-thirds done take it off, and leave the fish to cool. In the meantime boil a knuckle of veal in some stock, with half a glass of white wine ; reduce it to a jelly, let it stand till a fine clear colour, and whilst hot pour it on a dish over the turbot; spread it equally over the whole, and serve. TURBOT AU GRATIN. Take some pieces of ready-dressed turbot, remove the skin and bones, and put the pieces into a saucepan, with some bechamel maigre; set it on the fire, make it quite hot without letting it boil, spread it all over a dish, and make it quite smooth with thoTUR [ 504 ] TUR l)1ac!e of a knife; cover it with Lread crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and pour some melted butter on it. Garnish your disli with fried bread, put it in the oven to colour, and serve. TURBOT, GRILLED. Split the fish down the back, and soak it for some time with melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Bread the turbot well, broil, and serve it with lemon or Seville orange juice. TURBOT WITH MACARONI. Take the remains of a turbot which has been dressed the preceding way, and pick it from the bone ; put it into hot water to make it separate into flakes, and then put it into some very good cream sauce, with a little pipe macaroni well boiled. Be particular there is no water either in the flakes of turbot or the macaroni, as it would , spoil the sauce. When made very hot in the sauce put it on a dish, strew bread crumbs over it, and sprinkle some clarified butter over with a spoon; then strew bread crumbs again, brown it with a salamander, and serve. TURBOT WITH PARMESAN. Soak a couple of turbots in melted butter, with shred parsley, shallots, pepper, and salt. When they have lain about an hour pour the butter, &c., on a dish, with a little cullis, grated bread, and Parmesan cheese in equal quantities ; place the fish on it, cover them in the same manner, and bake. TURBOT, ROE OF : To Dhess. This is the most delicate of roes, resembling between calf's brains and sweetbreads, and is more deli- cate and beautiful, and may be dressed in various Avaj's ; but much attention must be paid in handling it. Roasted in the oven, on the spit, in a caul, ragouted, or fricasseed white, garnished with lemon and crayfish, it makes a beautiful second-course side dish where the French style is introduced, and at our table an elegant first course one. TURBOT SALAD. Skin and dress the turbot; cut it in any form, dress it high in the middle of the dish, garnish it with slips of anchovies, capers, truffles, beet-root, &c., and fill up the spaces with hearts of lettuce cut in skeins, like threads, or any form. Garnish it with pickled onions, &c., and serve it with a sauce of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. All sorts of fish may be served in the same way in salads, with sauce to the taste, or covered with savoury jelly- TURBOT, STUFFED AND BAKED. Your turbot being properly cleansed, turn over the skin of the under side without cutting it off. Make a farce with some butter, parsley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, all shred, united together with yolks of eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Spread this all over the under part of the fish, cover it over with the skin, and sew it up. Dissolve some butter in the saucepan, and add to it, when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweet herbs shred, salt, and pepper ; rub the fish all over with this, then bread and bake it. TURBOT WITH WHITE SAUCE. Put some sliced onion, thyme, basil, and sweet herbs into a stewpan; place a small turbot on these, strew similar herbs, salt, pepper, and a leek cut in pieces over it; cover the fish with equal quantities of vinegar and white wine, and let it boil over a moderate fire until sufficiently done. In the meantime melt 1 lb. of butter; add to it a couple of boned anchovies, two spoonsful of capers shred small, two or three leeks, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, water, and a sprinkle of flour ; make aU these quite hot, stii'ring constantly till done ; then dish the turbot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. TUREEN, ROYAL. Take some fillets of kid and lamb, a fat pheasant, two partridges, a leveret, and two pigeons; lard all these with streaked bacon, and j^lace them in a large braisiiig-pan on slices of bacon and veal, with salt and spices; pour over them a pint of good stock, close the pan, lute the edges with paste, and set it on a moderate fire for sis. hours. In the meantime take some veal sweetbreads, and truffles boiled with white wine, and boiled with any article you please; put them into some good stock, and let them simmer for some time. When your braise is quite done pour it into a tureen, placing the largest pieces at the bottom, the sweetbread, &c., over all the rest, and serve. TURKEY: To Carve. Whether roasted or boiled a turkey is served up like a fowl, and cut up in the same manner as a pheasant. The best parts are the wings, breast, and neck-bones. The neck itself is taken away, and the cavity under the breast stuffed with forcemeat, which must be cut into thin slices from the rump to the neck, and a portion given with a piece of the turkey. The common practice is not to cut up more than the breast or one of the w'ings; but this must be regulated by circumstances, and the number of guests at the table. TURKEY: To Choose. It is remarkable that a bird so tender to rear in England as the turkey should abound in the woods ofTUll [ 505 ] TULi Canada, where it originally came from, and M'here the ground for many months in the year is covered with snow. In that country it is larger and more beautiful than in Europe. It is, however, one of the most valuable appendages to a farmyard ; for when reared it is not only hardy, but fed at little expense. Some turkeys, especially those of Norfolk, which are the best in the kingdom, weigh from 20 lbs. to 30 lbs. They are in season from December to the end of February. In choosing a cock turkey observe that the spurs are short, and the legs black, in which case he is young ; but if the spurs are long, and the legs pale and rough, he is old. If the bird has been long killed the eyes will be sunk, and the feet very dry; but if fresh the one will be limber, and the other lively. In examining the hen the same signs must be attended to, and if she be with egg she will have an open vent; but if not, a close and hard one. The newness or staleness of turkey poults will be determined in the same way, and so there can be no mistake as to age. TURKEY: To Sousr. Bone a good-sized turkey, and tie it up like a sturgeon ; put into a large saucepan tivo quarts of vinegar, one quart of water, and some salt; make it boil, put in the turkey, and let it boil till tender; then take the saucepan from the fire, and as soon as it is cold put the whole into a pan, and let it stand three weeks. Serve it with elder vinegar, and garnish with fennel. TURKEY : To Stew. Take a saucepan suf- ficiently large to hold the turkey conveniently, lay four skewers across the bottom of the sauce- pan, and put in the turkey upon these ; pour in a quart of good veal gravy, add a bunch of celery cut into small pieces, and some beaten mace ; let them stew as slowly as possible till the gravy is more than half consumed, and then put in a large piece of butter rolled in flour. When it has melted put in a glass of Madeira or other white wine, and if there is not a sufficient quantity of sauce add a little strong veal gravy thickened with butter. When it is tender take it up, dish it, and pour the sauce over, to Avhich may be added, if you think proper, pickled mushrooms or oysters. TURKEY: To Truss. After the bird is well picked singe it with white paper, and wipe it thoroughly with a coarse cloth ; then break the leg bone close below the knee, and having suspended the turkey by a hook, draw out the strings from the thighs ; cut off the neck close to the back, but leave enough of the crop skin to turn over the back. Next take out the crop, and with your middle finger loosen the liver and gut at the throat end; then cut off the vent, and take out the gut. With a sharp crooked iron draw out the gizzard and liver, but tako special care not to break the gall, otherwise the flesh will contract an ill flavour. This is a general caution to be observed in all fowls. Having cleared the inside, wipe it thoroughly with a wet cloth; then cut the breast-bone through on each side close to the back, and draw the legs up to the crop. After this lay a cloth on the breast, and beat the thigh- bone down flat with a rolling-pin. If the turkey is to be boiled cut off the legs ; then put your middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and place them under the apron ; run a skewer through the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, quite into the leg and wing of the opposite side ; place the gizzard and liver, after taking out the gall and offensive matter, within the pinions ; then turn the small end of each pinipn on the back, and tie a pack- thread over the ends of the legs to keep them fast. If the turkey is to be roasted pass a skewer into the joint of the wing, bring the legs close up, and pass the skewer through the middle of the leg and body. On the opposite side insert another skewer into the small part of the leg, put it close on the outside of the sidesman, pass- ing the skewers quite through, and do the same on the other side ; place the liver and gizzards between the pinions, and turn the point of these on the back as before directed. After this pass another skewer close above the pinions through the body of the turkey. Poults are to be trussed in the same manner. After drawing them in the usual way, draw the head from the neck and body, but without removing the skin ; pass a skewer through the joint of the pinion, and bring the legs close up; run the • skewer through the middle of the leg and body, and do the same on the other side; cut off the under part of the bill, twist the skin of the neck round, and put the head on the point of the skewer as if it were looking forward; put another skewer in the sidesman, and place the legs between that and the apron, one on each side; pass the skewer through both, and cut off the claws.' It is a common practice to lard turkey poults on the breast. The liver and gizzard may be used as before directed. TURKEY, ATELET OF. Take the breast of a cold roasted turkey, cut it into thin slices about an inch square, cut some truffles and boiled streaked bacon in the same manner, split some large champignons also; put the above into an atelet sauce. When they have thoroughly imbibed it put them alternately on six silver skewers, dip them into beaten eggs, cover them with bread crumbs, egg and bread them a second time, and then fry them. TURKEY, BLANQUETTE OF. Cut the white meat from a cold roasted turkey, mince itTUR [ 506 J TUR small, and put it into a stewpan; cut as many champignons as you think proper in pieces the size of a farthing and put them in water and lemon juice to keep them white; put a little hutter into a stewpan, with the juice of half a lemon ; add the champignons, set them on the fire, and when the butter is melted add six ladlesful of consomme and the same of veloute; reduce this to half, skim and take off all the fat, then pour the sauce on the mince, set it on the fire to make it quite hot without boiling, put in a liaison of an egg or two, and 1 oz. of butter, and serve it. TURKEY, BOILED. Their legs must be taken off at the knee, and the sinews drawn out by putting the leg into a vice, and great atten- tion is necessary not to cut them too open. The hooked end of a basting spoon is the best thing for drawing poultry. The cook, knowing where the gall lies, ought to be careful to avoid it. If it is broken every part that it touches must be perfectly washed or cut away. If the liver is diseased cut away the part, separate the fat, and put it into a jar kept on purpose, with the eggs and intestines, and be particularly careful of the egg caul. See Stijffing. The following directions are applicable to other fowls as well as turkeys :— The intestines of three or four fowls will make a very nice dish, and are excellent for mock turtle or any other garnishing. Skin the gizzards, or tack or hang the skins into a screen to dry, for making galline curds. Put the heads and feet into boiling water, to take the feathers and rough skin off the feet, as they may be dressed in giblets or put into the stock pot. If the poultry is killed at home the blood ought to be preserved, as it is very delicate ; it will fill the skin of the neck, and with a bit of liver will make a nice small pudding, with cream and Naples biscuits. In Italy they are very careful of the neck, because of the delicacy of the blood, and braise it very softly, just till the blood thickens, without boiling. Be also careful of such feathers as are useful, which is, at least, more cleanly than throwing them about the kitchen and burning them. The pen feathers ought to be drawn before they are killed. All this is very little more trouble than throwing them into the waste tub, besides saving nice things that cannot be obtained in any other way, while the blood is so very nourishing to the debilitated. The gizzards, intestines, heads, and feet ought to be simmered for two hours, after ■which let the gizzards and the livers, which must only be blanched, be put into the wings, after the fowls have been farced and stuffed, according to the occasion or manner of dressing, with oysters, truffles, mushrooms and veal farce. If the fowls are to be braised they may te larded, but the lard must not touch the braise. If they are to be boiled, put them upon the fire in a saucepan, as near the size as possible, with milk, water, and a little rice flour. This will keep them white without sapping them, and the farce will nourish them williiu. There is nothing more disgusting and com- mon in dressing poultry than a dirty-looking crop, which is occasioned by the dark, wet, raw, coarse stuffing, which discolours and prevents the cooking of the top of the breast and wings. No kind of farce should be used but such as is well made and well cooked; and should the colour be dark the breast may be lined with a slice of thin bacon, or washed over with white of egg. For family dinners a rice or delicate vegeta- ble pudding may be put into the bodies, the vents and necks of which must be firmly tied. There is hardly any sauce but high salmis that may not be served with boiled fowl—shell fish of all kinds, liver, mushroom, parsley, curry, anchovy, egg, celery, and other vegeta- bles. When the fowls are not of a good colour a veiy thick parsley or liver sauce is to be poured over them. If butter sauces are used, let them, for poultry, be made of butter and cream. Hard pounded yolks and anchovy sauce made thick, as well as liver, are excellent covering sauce. TURKEY, BOILED (au Bourgeois). Truss the turkey the same as for boiling, put some water into a saucepan, set it on the fire, put in some salt, a large handful of chopped parsley, and some peppercorns. As soon as the water boils put in the turkey, and let it boil very gently till sufficiently done, but not too much so, In the meanwhile set on the fire a saucepan with a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little water, some parsley cut very small, a thin slice of garlic, two anchovies, a little lemon-peel cut into dice, a little lemon juice, and a little salt: let all these stew together, thicken it, and serve over the turkey. TURKEY, BONED. For this purpose you must have a fine large tender turkey, and after it is drawn, washed, and wiped dry, lay it on a clean table, and with a very sharp knife, with a narrow blade and point, begin at the neck ; then go round at the shoulders and wings, and carefully separate the flesh from the bone, scraping it down as you proceed. Next loosen the flesh from the breast, back, and body, and then from the thighs. It requires care and patience to do it nicely, and to avoid tearing or breaking the skin. The knife should also penetrate to the bone, scraping loose the flesh, rather than cutting it. When all the flesh has been completely loosened take the turkey by theC S07 ] TUR TUR neck, give it a pull, and the whole skeleton will come out entire from the flesh as easily as you draw your hand out of a glove. The flesh will then fall down a flat and shapeless mass. Willi a small needle and thread carefully sew up any holes that have accidentally been torn in the skin. Have ready a large quantity of stuffing made as follows:—Take three 2 lb. loaves of stale bread, grate the crumb, and put the crust in water to soak. When quite soft break them up small into the pan of bread crumbs, and mix in 1 lb of fresh butter cut into little pieces, two large bunches of sweet marjoram, the same of sweet basil, and one bunch of parsley: mince the parsley very fine, and rub to a powder the leaves of marjoram and basil. You should have two large heaped-up table- spoonsful of each. Chop also two small onions or shallots, and mix them with the herbs ; pound to powder J oz. of mace, ^ oz. of cloves, and two large nutmegs; mix the spices together, and add a tea-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoon- ful of ground black pepper; then mix the herbs, spices, &c., thoroughly into the bread crumbs, and add by degrees four beaten eggs to bind the whole together. Take up a handful of this stuffing, squeeze it hard, and proceed to stuff the turkey with it, beginning at the wings ; next do the body, and then the thighs; stuff it very hard, and as you proceed form the turkey into its natural shape by filling out properly the wings, breast, body, &c. When all the stuffing is in sew up the body, and skewer the turkey into the usual way it is trussed, so that if skilfully done it will look almost as if it had not been boned ; tie it round with tape, and bake it three hours or more, basting it occasionally with fresh butter. Make a gravy of the giblets, chopped and stewed slowly in the water, and when done add to it the gravy that is in the dish about the turkey, having first skimmed off the fat, and enrich it with a glass of white wine and two beaten yolks of eggs, stirred in just before you take it from the fire. If the turkey is to be eaten cold at the supper table drop a table- spoonful of currant or cranberry jelly all over it at small distances, and in the dish round it. A very handsome way of serving it up cold is, after making a sufficiency of nice clear calf's-foot jelly (seasoned as usual with wine, lemon, cinnamon, &c.), to lay the turkey in the dish in which it is to go to table, and, setting it under the jelly bag, let the jelly drip upon it so as to form a transparent coating all over it, smoothing the jelly evenly with the back of a spoon as it congeals on the turkey. Apple jelly may be substituted. Large fowls may be boned and stuffed in the above manner; also a young roasting pig. , TURKEY, COLD : To Seeve. Lay your turkey in a dish, and have some nice savoury jelly, which cut into pieces. Garnish the dish all round with it. TURKEY EN DAUBE. Take an old turkey, truss it in the usual way, roll some large lardons in a mixture of salt, pepper, four spices, sweet herbs, and lard the turkey with them ; lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, put the turkey on them, with two small knuckles of veal, the feet of the bird, four carrots, six onions, three cloves, two bay leaves, thyme, a bunch of parsley, and young onions; cover the whole with bacon and buttered paper, dilute it with four ladlesful of stock (or more if the turkey be large), put in a little salt, and set the pan on the fire to boil slowly for three hours and a half, but do not take the bird out for at least half an hour; strain off the liquor, and then reduce it to a fourth, or more if very thin. Break an egg into another saucepan, beat it up well, and pour the liquor on it; whisk them well together, and if it wants flavour add a few sweet herbs, parsley leaves, and a young onion or two; put it on the fire, stirring it violently till ready to boil; as soon as it has boiled up once or twice set it by the side of a stove, put fire on top of the saucepan, and let it simmer half an hour; then strain it carefully through a fine cloth, and let it cool to serve it with the turkey. TURKEY FRICANDEAU. The skin may be slit down one side, and pulled over without taking it off, and the whole breast taken out in one piece, larded, and cooked entirely as directed for a veal fricandeau. The body of the bird is to be filled with salpicon of rabbit, liver, oysters, farce, a very nice dry ragout, or curry ; then the skin is to be drawn over, and tucked into its place, and the turkey lai'ded, and either done in the oven, or on a bird spit, or braised. If this is nicely done it will be as good as if it was made of the breast of the turkey. Frican- deaux of poultry are very nice, besides their fine colour, smooth appearance, and shape. Small fricandeaux of game or water fowl look well dished upon turnips. The carcasses may be made into salmis, soup, or sauce, and the legs and pinions dressed in many different ways. TURKEY, GALANTINE OF. fake a fine fat turkey, bone it entirely, beginning with the back, and taking great care not to injure the breast; remove all the sinews from the legs, and cut away the meat from the thickest parts, so as to make it nearly all the same level. Take some of this meat, cold chicken, or meat of any kind you please : if you have '2 lbs. of lean take 2 lbs. of fat bacon, mince them small, and add salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs. Lard your turkey with moderate-sized lardons well seasoned ; spread all over the bird a layer of the farce an inch[ 508 ] TUR TU R tliick, on \Yhicli place truffles, tongues a Vecmiate, bacon, tui'key, fowl, and fat livers, all cut into pieces about half an inch thick, and an inch and a half long; cover these with another layer of farce, and continue this operation alternately till all the farce is used; then roll up the turkey in its proper form, but so that none of the farce may escape ; sew it up, cover it with slices of bacon, wrap it in a coarse cloth with three or four bay leaves, tie it closely, and place it in a braisiug-pan on slices of bacon ; add two knuckles of veal, six carrots, six onions, a large bunch of parsley and scallions, the bones of the turkey, a bay leaf, a little thyme, three cloves, and three ladlesful or more of stock; cover your braising-pan closely, set it on the fire, and let it simmer for three hours. When doue take it from the fire, but leave the turkey in for half an hour : on taking it out of the pan press it gently to get out all tlie gravy. When quite cold unwrap the bird; strain the gravy through a lawn sieve, beat up an egg in it, and set it on the fire, stirring till it boils , then put it by the side of tlie stove, with fire on the saucepan lid. In about half an hour strain it again, and leave it to cool. TURKEY GIBLETS A LA BOUR- GEOISE. The pinion, neck, feet, liver, and gizzard compose the giblets. When scalded put them into a small stewpan, with a little butter, parsley, scallions, bay leaf, thyme, basil, mushi'ooms, and a clove or two ; moisten these with stock, season with pepper and salt, make all quite hot, and thicken with a little flour. When nearly done add a few turnips slightly fried in a little butter. TURKEY GIBLETS, FRICASSEED. Scald thoroughly the giblets from as many turkeys as will malie a handsome dish ; then stew them down with 2 ozs. of butter, as directed in the preceding receipt. When doue take out the herbs, make a liaison with three yolks of eggs, a little cream, and some vinegar, and serve. TURKEY IN ITS OWN GRAVY. Take out the breast-bone of a turkey, and stuff it with a sweetbread scalded, mushrooms cut in pieces, grated bacon, pepper, and salt; put the turkey, covered with slices of bacon, into a braising-pan just large enough to hold it, with a very little stock, a quarter of a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, thyme, bay leaf, a few cloves, and a little nutmeg; let it braise slowly, turn it two or three times, and when done skim the sauce, strain it, add chopped shallots, reduce the sauce, and serve it poured over the turkey. TURKEY, HASHED. Cut up the remains of ji roasted turkey, which put into a stewpan, with a glass of white wine, chopped parsley, shallots. mushrooms, truffles, salt, pepper, two spoons- ful of cuUis, and a little stock : boil half an hour, and reduce to a thick sauce. When ready add 1 lb. of anchovy and a squeeze of lemon, skim off" all the fat from the sauce, and servo all up together. TURKEY, LEGS OF (Bedevilled). Score the legs across, and put mustard into the divisions ; then throw on some Cayenne pepper and salt, place them on a gridh'on over a brisk fire, and do them till they are thoroughly browned. Gizzards or pinions may be done iu the same manner. TURKEY, LEGS OF (Broiled). Braise some undressed legs of turkey until tender, then dip them in oil or melted butter, and bi'oil them of a fiue brown colour. Serve with a remolade sauce. TURKEY, LEGS OF (Provence Fashion). Take the legs of a roasted turkey, and put them into a stewpan, with a glass of wine, the same quantity of stock, pepper, salt, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a clove of garlic : simmer about an hour to reduce the sauce. Make a "ragout with a sweetbread, chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, and a bit of butter; soak this a little while, then add a little stock and cullis, and boil it some time. When ready add a pounded anchovy, chopped capers, and a handful of olives stoned, and warm together without boiling : yon must add pepper and salt according to taste. The sauce should be sharp and relishing. Serve it upon the legs. TURKEY, LEGS OF (en Surprise). Bone a couple of undressed legs of turkeys quite to the end, and fill the insides with a farce made of livers, sweetbreads, mushrooms, parsley, shallots, pepper, salt, the yolks of two eggs, grated bacon, and a little nutmeg ; sew them up, and braise them with slices of bacon and lemon. Serve with a Spanish sauce. TURKEY, LEGS AND WINGS OF (Glazed). Cat off the legs and wings of a turkey (if a large one the legs will bo sufficient for a dish); cut them pretty large from the breast, lard them all over, or lard only one to please the different palates; braise them on a slow fire with slices of veal and ham, a bundle of sweet herbs, some cloves, ^Yllole pepper, salt, and stock. When done skim the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and finish it like a fricandeau. TURKEY WITH OYSTERS. Truss a good white turkey for boiling, with the feet turned up like a fowl; tie some fat slices of bacon over the breast, and boil it gently in braise or in a stock pot; take it up a few minutes before wanted, in order to drain the water from it; take out the skewers and packthread which trussed it, set it on a large dish, and pour over it plenty of good oyster sauce. Some stuffing should[ 509 ] TUR TUR be put in tTie crop as directed for VEal, Shoulder of (Roasted). TURKEY PATTIES. Mince some of the white part of a tnrlcey, mix it with gi-ated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a small bit of butter warmed, and fill the patties. TURKEY" PIE, RAISED (with Tongue). Bone a turkey, then take a boiled pickled tongue, pare off the skin, put it into the middle ot the turkey, with a light, well-seasoned force- meat, and some slices of sweetbread; sew it up, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes. Make a raised crust, lay a forcemeat at the bottom, then put in the turkey (the turkey must be cold), with rashers of fat bacon tied over it; then put on the lid, ornament it, and set it in the oven to bake. When done lift off the lid, take out the bacon, glaze the breast lightly, add a cullis or truffle sauce, and serve. TURKEY POULTS. These should be drawn in the same manner as a turkey, except that the head should be left on, and turned under the pinions, with the bill pointing outwards. TURKEY, PULLED. Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting; then warm it in a little white gravy and cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter. The leg should be seasoned, scored, boiled, and served in the middle of a dish, with the above all round. TURKEY EN RAGOUT. Have a ragout in bechamel sauce of mushrooms, truffles, cocks' combs, fat livers, and artichoke bottoms. Lay the turkey when boiled in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. TURKEY, ROASTED. It may be either stuffed with sausage meat or stuffing the same as for Veal, Shoulder of (Roasted). As tliis makes a large addition to the size of the bird, take care that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part, as it frequently happens that the breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of paper should be put on the bone to prevent its scorching while the other parts are roasting. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen.- A few bread crumbs and a beaten egg should be added to the stuffing of sausage meat. TURKEY, SAUCE FOR. Cut the crust of a penny loaf thin, put it into cold water, with a few peppercorns and a little salt, and boil it tiU soft; then beat it well, add I lb. of butter and two spoonsful of cream, and send it to table. TURKEY, STUFFED (with Onions and Pickled Pork). Scald twenty-four small white onions, and boil them in stock, with | lb. of pickled pork cut in thin slices, a bunch of parsley, green shallots, thyme, a bay leaf, whole pepper, two cloves, and salt. When d( ue drain them all, stuff the turkey with them, and then wrap it in slices of bacon, over which put paper, and roast it. Make a sauce with a bit of butter, a slice of ham, two shallots, and a few mush- rooms ; soak these for a time, then add two spoons- ful of stock, and the same quantity of cullis; let it simmer for half an hour, skim, and strain it. When ready add a small spoonful of mus- tard, a little pepper, and salt. Serve this sauce with the turkey. TURKEY, STUFFED (with Sausage AND Chestnuts). Roast what quantity of chest- nuts you think necessary, peel them, and pound a part of them to a farce, with the liver, chopped parsley, shallots, a little salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and the yolks of three raw eggs ; put this farce into the crops, and stuff the body with the whole chestnuts, and a small sausage fried in butter ; cover the turkey with slices of bacon, and put paper over that; then roast it, and serve with a chestnut cullis. TURKEY, STUFFED (with Truffles). Peel about 1 lb. or \^ lb. of truffles, mix with them a little salt and grated bacon, and stuff your turkey with it; sew it up closely, wrap it in two or three sheets of paper, and keep it in this state for three or four days, that it may take the flavour of the truffles; then roast it well, covered all round with slices of bacon, and paper over that. Serve with a Spanish sauce. TURKEY, STUFFING FOR. To the preceding composition add the soft part of twelve oysters, anchovy, or a little grated ham or tongue. Pork sausage meat is sometimes used to stuff turkeys and fowls, or it may be fried, and sent up as garnish. TURKEY WINGS, HARICOT OF. Take the wings of some young turkeys; trim and bone them ; then make a light roux, in which fry the wings lightly ; put tliem into a stew- pan, with some rich broth, parsley, and green onions ; skim it carefully, and when about tliree parts done put in some turnips cut into I'ound pieces an inch and a half long, and browned. When half done drain tlie wings, place them on a dish en couronne, and the turnips in the c 6 litre TURLINGTON'S BALSAM. Take of the roots of angelica and of elecampane, of each 4 ozs. ; benzoin and guaiacum, of each 2 ozs. ; socotrine aloes, 6 drachms; balsam of tolu, 1 oz.; liquid storax, ^ oz.; of rectified spirit of wine, I quart. Let all the ingredients be bruised separately, and afterwards digested in the spirit of wine, in a vessel closely stopped, for at least fourteen days, shaking them every day : afterwards pour off the clear balsam. This is of similar qualities to the compound tincture of benzoin (see Elixir, Paregoric): it may be also used for the same intentionsT U R [5 botli internally and externally. The dose in- ternally may be from 15 to 30 drops, or more. TURMERIC. This is the root of Curcuma lonrja, a species of cucumber imported from the East Indies in tubers about the size of the little finger. Aromatic, tonic, discussive, and heating. Used especially in the jaundice and the itch. Dose, 1 to 2 drachms. Dyes a deep yellow, and is used as a seasoning in Indian cookery. Em- ployed in debilitated states of the stomach, intermittent fever, and dropsy. Considered by the native practitioners of India an excellent application in powder for cleansing foul ulcers : also used in dyeing. Formerly mu<;h used in cookery to give things a colour. Tinges the urine a deep yellow colour. White paper dyed by an alcoholic tincture of turmeric is a very sensitive test for alkalies. TURNIP SAUCE. Pare four turnips, and let them simmer in a little water until done, and the liquor is reduced; then rub them through a sieve, add to them a little bechamel, and cut some more turnips in shapes as for haricot; simmer them also the same as for the first, and then add them to the others. TURNIP SOUP. Be careful in choosing your turnips that they are not in the least spongy; take twelve, and cut them about an inch square ; then cut them into the form of a barrel, and put them as you do them in a basin of ■water. While they are preparing set Jib. of butter on the fire in a shallow stewpan to claiify. When the turnips are ready, and drained from the water, pat them in the butter, and fry them of a fine brown colour; then put them on a sieve to drain. After this put them into a soup pot, with a little sugar and salt, and fill it up with consomme ; set it by the stove to boil gently, skim it well, and clarify it the same as for other soups. It will be a great addition to put in at first, with the turnips, a few heads of celery cut round and blanched. Bi'ead must be put in this as well as other clear soups made with vegetables. TURNIP TOPS. This vegetable is in season during the early part of the spring. They should be very young, and all stalks and withered leaves taken oif. Turnip tops require a great deal of water to boil them. Put in some salt, and serve them like spinach. TURNIP TOPS, PICKLED. Choose them young, pick off all the stalks and withered leaves, put them into boiling water, set them on the fire, and when tender press out all the water, and leave them to cool; then put them into the jar, with some salt, and cover them with the best vinegar. TURNIPS : To Mash. Split them once, or even twice, should they be large. After they are pared boil them very till tender, and press the water thoroughly from them with a couple of trenchers, or with the back of a large plate and one trencher. To insure their being free from lumps it is better to pass them through a cullender or coarse hair sieve with a wooden spoon, though, when quite young, they may be worked sufficiently smooth without this. Put them into a clean saucepan, and stir them constantly over a gentle fire for some minutes, that they may be very dry ; then add some salt, a bit of fresh butter, and a little cream, or, in lieu of this, new milk. We would also recom- mend a seasoning of white or Cayenne pepper when appearance and fashion are not par- ticularly regarded. Continue to simmer and to stir five or six minutes longer, or until they have quite absorbed all the liquid which has been poured to them. Serve them always as hot as possible. This is an excellent receipt. TURNIPS, BOILED (1). Pare them thicklj% and when boiled squeeze them well to thoroughly drain them from the water; mash them till smooth, beat them with a little cream, and add a piece of butter, a little Hour, pepper, and salt. TURNIPS, BOILED (2). Pare entirely from the rind, and either split the turnips once or leave; throw them into boiling water slightly salted, and keep them closely stopped from smoke or dust until quite tender. When small or young they will be done in fifteen or twenty minutes. At their full growth they will re- quire from three quarters of an hour to a full hour, or more, of gentle boiling. After they have become holey and woolly they are not worth dressing in any way. When boiled in their skins, and pared afterwards, they are said to be of better flavour, and much less watery than when cooked in the usual way. TURNOVER. Make a hot crust as for raised pies, allowing a little more butter; roll it out quickly, and cut it in different forms ; lay apples stewed as for sauce, rhubarb, or scalded gooseberries in the crust, moist sugar, add to the apples a little lemon-peel or cinnamon, double up the paste, and pinch the edges: bake in a moderate oven. Turnovers or pasties may be made in the same way with any kind of solid preserves or jam. TURPENTINE {see Tar) has been generally distinguished into common turpenline, Strasburgh turpentine, Venice turpentine, &c. In the shops, however, those usually known are common, or horse, Venice, and Chio turpentine. Horse turpentine is also called by the dealers in turpentine strained turpentine. It is of a yellowish white colour, somewhat opaque, and of the consistence of honey. It is sold as being merely the turpentine obtained from the pine, freed from impurities; but there is reasonTUR TUR I. 511 ] for believing that it contains a portion of some fixed oil. Venice turpentine, although said in most books to be an imported article, is never sold as such in the shops. It is usually made either by melting black resin, and after removing it from the fire mixing with it gradually an equal weight of oil of turpentine, or as follows :— Take of unstrained turpentine, commonly called frankincense, 3|^lbs.; oil of turpentine, l^^pint; linseed oil, 1 pint. Melt the unstrained tur- pentine over a moderate fire, and when it is melted and removed from the fire add gradually the oil of turpentine and linseed oil previously mixed. Lastly, strain the whole whilst hot through a hair sieve. Crude, ov unstrained turpentine, is imported in casks from various countries, chiefly at the present time from America. It is this article, when hardened by age, that is called the frank- incense of the shops ; it is from this article also that oil of turpentine is distilled, and the residue of which is the common yellow resin : Mack resin is merely yellow resin deprived of more of its terebinthine matter by a still greater degree of heat. Horse turpentine is used for various purposes in the arts, and also in the preparation of some detergent ointments. Venice turpentine is also used for similar purposes. All the turpentines have a peculiar, somewhat aromatic odour, and a warm, pungent, bitterish taste. they are of different degrees of con- sistency, tenacious, more or less translucent, combine readily with fixed oils, and are inflam- mable, burning with a white flame and much black smoke, which, condensed, is the lamp- Hack of commerce. Oil of turpentine, sometimes, but improperly, called spirit of turpentine, is obtained from crude turpentine by distilling it with water in a common still. A colourless, limpid, strong, penetrating fluid comes over, having a peculiar odour, and a hot, pungent, bitterish taste; it is also extremely light, volatile, and inflammable ; it dissolves in hot alcohol, and again separates from it as the spirit cools; in all other respects it agrees with the other essential oils: the residuum left in the still is yellow resin. Oil of turpentine is used for various purposes in the arts, chiefly, however, as a medium for mixing paints. White-lead ground in this fluid forms the dead white so well known to painters. As medicines the tui-pentines and their essential oils are stimulant, cathartic, diuretic, and anthelmintic ; and externally rubefacients, as well as being sometimes usefully applied to promote the healing of many wounds. [See Basilicon and Burgundy Pitch.) The tur- pentines appear, however, to derive their virtues from their essential oil. They are sometimes given internally in gleets and gonorrhoeas, and in mucous obstructions of the urinary passages. The oil of turpentine is regarded as a useful remedy in lumbago, sciatica, &c.; it has also lately been very successfully given, in unusually large doses, for the expulsion of the tape-worm. It is also said to be useful when dropped into the ear, either alone or mixed with oil of almonds, in deafness from defect of wax; and it is an excellent addition to embrocations in acute rheumatisms, bruises, and paralysis of the extremities. As a discutient it is also applied to indolent tumours, and is said to be a useful primary application to burns. The doses of any of the turpentines, when given internally, which they rarely are, may be from 10 grains to 1 drachm, either made into pills with powdered liquorice root, or dif- fused in water by means of almonds, mucilage, or yolk of an egg: the dose of the oil may be from 10 drops to 1 drachm to produce its diuretic effect It is very remarkable that if 2 fluid drachms of this oil be given for a dose it sometimes so excites the urinary organs as to produce even bloody urine, whereas, when given in much larger doses, its chief action is on the bowels, scarcely pi'oducing any apparent effects on the urinary secretion. For the expulsion of the tape-worm, therefore, it is necessary, and perfectly safe, to give from \ fluid oz. to 2 fluid ozs., repeated every eight hours till the worm is discharged. In these large doses it is most easily taken like castor oil, floating upon some liquid vehicle. TURTLE : To Dress. The night before dressing hang up the turtle by the tail, cut off" the head, and save the blood. In the morning lay it flat, and with a sharp knife cut off the fins, and cut each into two or three pieces ; then cut out the belly shell, with as much meat as can be attached by sloping the knife out- wards, if it is to be served attached to the shell. Take out the intestines and the rest of the meat, either leaving or taking out the green fat; saw off as much of the shell as will opeir it hand- somely ; blanch tlie fins, shells, and head; put them into a sufficient-sized pot, and cover them with veal stock, which, if not already seasoned, the following must be put in :—Parsley, shallots, a little garlic, basil, savory, marjoram, and thyme ; nutmeg, cloves, and mace, in powder, of each \ oz., or according to the quantity of stock. Clean and split the intestines, scrape and pick them very well, lay them an hour in lime water or strong vinegar, put them into an earthen vessel, simmer them with some stock^ The heart, liver, and lungs are to be simmered separately: the liver must not be put in till the others are nearly ready. All the different parts must be[ 512 ] TUR cooked separately, as they will require more or less doing ; and this is the greatest difficulty in doing turtle, as, if it is done too much in the first dressing, it gets slimy: all ex-cept the in- testines ought to be three quarters done. When prepared let them cool; take the breast shell, raise the meat from it, and farce with higher- seasoned farce than the trirtle, to which Cayenne has been added. There is no occasion to make this farce of the turtle ; it may be made of the veal the stock was made of, of fish, or a mixture of both: this also allows a greater quantity of farce to be made, and enlarges the quantity of turtle. If the breast shell is not to be served with the meat attached to it, the meat is to be cut off in pieces about the size of a fist, which, after being three-fourths cooked in butter, are to be split with a knife and farced. When all is ready take a large vessel that will hold the whole, except the intestines, melt 1 lb. of butter in it, or more, according to the quantity, put in an equal quantity of sifted flour, and work it till it becomes a fine roux ; add the whole stock by degrees, work and cook it smooth, add the juice of two large lemons and Cayenne, strain, and put in from three to four pints of ]\Iadeira. Put the meat, being all nicely cut, into the sauce, and let it simmer: take care it does not boil. In the meantime put a handsome border round the shell, and fold it over as if it were lined : the breast shell may be bordered or fitted to a dish, where the border will meet it. The other dishes may be all lightly bordered, and handsome light croquant covers made for them ; but handsomely and lightly bordered dishes, with puffed napldns, give a turtle course a very handsome appearance. If the green fat has been taken out of the large shell it is to be returned into it; then fill up with the cut meat and sauce, cover with farce balls and eggs, and set in a dish into a properly heated oven for the paste ; or the meat m.ay be filled in after the paste, baked, and browned with a salamander; but in doing so care must be taken that the paste is not soiled. The breast shell is to be served at the top, or the farced white meat is to be dressed in a deep dish, filled up with sauce and meat, and garnished with balls and eggs. It may be finished also in the oven. The intestines being cut, are served in sauce at one side, and may be fricasseed; the fins in sauce at the other, and the soup in the middle. If seven dishes are to be served put the hearts, lights, and liver in the centre. These are to be more highly seasoned with lemon juice, claret, garlic, and Cayenne, and thickened before serving with the blood. Have stock ready for the soup, which should not be either so rich or highly seasoned as the turtle ; but a little cream and almonds ir.ay be added. Dish it into two tureens, and divide whatever is left of the turtle from the other dishes into them, and put in eggs, farce, and bread balls of a smaller size than those put into the turtle. This soup should be no thicker than thin cream, and if well made it is not necessary to put in any turtle. The stock for the soup may be made of eels or sturgeon, or a mixture of them with the veal. When families get patent turtle in the country, directions for serving ai-e sent along with it: two quarts are generally allowed for twelve, that is to say, in the solid, which makes a handsome dish or two. A good cook, having prepared plenty of nice stock as above, with sturgeon, calf's feet or head and chitterlings, pig's lungs and liver, may much enlarge her course. Eeal turtle and all the imitations of it are the better for being pre- pared a day or two before, particularly by such as are not accustomed to make it. TURTLE, IMITATION. Let the cook make a fish stock of eels, flounders, skate, or any of the cheap fishes, and season exactly as for TuKTLE Soup, with the same sweet herbs and spices, and if sturgeon can be had cook it in butter, cut in pieces about the size of a fist, and farce it; or let a large piece be farced round the edge, slashed and seasoned, and cooked in the oven, and serve it in a paste border. The head of the sturgeon is an excellent addition to the turtle. If two or three large heads can be had cook them in the stock, let them cool, draw out the bones, and cut them in pieces ; have half or a whole calf's head ready cooked in its own juice, and cut in pieces ; (they may be also pre- pared as calf or pig's chitterlings); cut and pre- pare them as turtles ; make plenty of farce with the fish that the stock was made of; follow the directions as given in either of the receipts throughout as to seasoning and cooking, and add carrots, onions, sugar, and a little garlic to the stock to raise the flavour. The only difficulty is in the proportioning the meat and fish, which should be, if possible, three-fourths fish, but half will do — say the stock entirely fish, with a large calf's head and two neat's feet, which will give enough stock for jellies for a large entertainment, while the head will give stock for the sauces. Three cods' heads and the veal of a large sturgeon, added to these, will make a handsome course of imitation turtle, from forty to fifty covers, for a private entertainment. If there is no sturgeon prepare a piece of fillet of veal as in imitation of tunny fish [see Vkal), or simmer it in butter and spices; do not let it boil, and farce with a high-seasoned farce. A very handsome course of five or sevenTUR VOL. II. 2 L dislies may lie sei'ved of veal or sturfreou dressed as iu the foregoing receipts for Turtle Soup, two tiinbales at the side, one with the chitterlings in fricassee, the other with two sets of sucking pigs' lungs, and dressed highly seasoned; or they may be served in open dishes with pastry borders (strong white wine will do as well as Madeira), with two tureens of soup. Imitation turtle made as above has deceived not only good judges by its appearance and taste, but by its easy digestion, which is the principal thing desired in making any deviation from the present established and much-admired dish. TURTLE SOUP. The day before you dress a turtle chop the herbs, and make the forcemeat; then, on the preceding evening, suspend the turtle by the two hind fins with a cord, and put one i-ound the neck, with a heavy weight attached to draw it out, that the head may be cut off with more ease : let the turtle hang all night, in which time the blood will be well drained from the body. Then, early in the morning, having your stoves and plenty of hot water in readiness, take the turtle, lay it on the table on its back, and with a strong pointed knife cut out all the under shell, which is the calipee. There are joints at each end, which must be carefully found, gently separating it from the calipash, which is the upper shell: be careful, then, in cutting out the gut, that you do not break the gall. When the calipee and the calipash are separated take out that part of the gut that leads from the throat; that, with the heart, put into a basin of water by them- selves ; the other interior part put away. Take the calipee, and cut off the meat which adheres to it in four quarters, laying it on a clean dish. Take 20 lbs. of veal, chop it up, set it in a large pot, putting in the flesh of the turtle at the same time, with all kinds of turtle soup herbs, onions, carrots, l^lb. of lean ham, peppercorns, salt, a little spice, and two bay leaves, leaving it to stew till it takes the colour of Espagnole ; put the fins (the skin can be scalded off) and heart in half an hour before you fill it with half water, and half beef stock ; then carefully skim it, put in a bunch of parsley, and let it boil gently like consomme. While the turtle is stewing carefully scald the head, the calipee, and all that is soft of the calipash, attentively observing to take off the smallest particle of skin that may remain ; put them with the gut into a large pot of water to boil till tender, and when this is the case take them out, and cut them in squares, putting them into a basin by themselves till wanted for the soup. The next thing is the thicken- ing of the soup, which must be prepared in the same manner as sauce tovrnee. The turtle being well done, take out the heart and fins, ai.d lay them on a dish. The whole liquor must pass through a sieve into a lai'ge pan ; then with a ladle take off all the fat, put it into a basin, and mix with it the turtle liquor (a small quantity at a time), with the thicken- ing made the same as sauce tournee; but it does not require to be one-twentieth part so thick; set it over a brisk fire, continue stir- ring till it boils, and when it has boiled two hours, being skimmed all the while, squeeze it through a tammy into another large stewpan, put it on the fire, and stir it as before till it boils. When it has boiled gently for one hour put in the calipee and calipash, with the gut, heart, and some of the best meat and head, all cut in squares, with the forcemeat balls and herbs, which you should have ready chopped and stewed: the herbs are paisley, lemon thyme, marjoram, basil, savory, and a few chopped mushrooms. It must carefully be at- tended to and skimmed, and one hour and a half before dinner put in a bottle of Madeira wine, and nearly half a bottle of brandy, keep- ing it continually boiling gently, and skimming it, then take a basin, and put a little Cayenne pepper into it, with the juice of si.x lemons squeezed through a sieve. When the dinner is wanted skim the turtle, stir it well up, and put in a little salt if necessary; then stir in the Cayenne and lemon juice, and lade it into the tureen. This receipt will answer for a turtle between 50 lbs. and 60 lbs. TURTLE SOUP, MOCK (1). Take 6 lbs. of beefsteak, 2 lbs. of veal cuttings, and some fowl trimmings; put them into a large sauce- pan, with equal quantities of consomme and veal blond, two carrots, and an onion stuck with two cloves ; set it on the fire, and when it is reduced to consomme add a bottle of Madeira wine ; tie a few berries of allspice and a little mace in a cloth, and put in; set it on the fire, in about three hours' time add thirty champignons, two sweetbreads cut in pieces like the head, fifteen cocks' combs, thirty kidneys, and thii'ty fowl quenelles. When the whole is sufficiently done skira off all the fat from the soup, which should be clean, and of a deep colour. Put two poached eggs in a soup tureen, on which pour the soup, and serve. TURTLE SOUP, MOCK (2). Prepare a large calf's head with the skin, with rather more than half stock meat and veal knuckles, allowing more than 3 lbs. to each quart of water. After it has been well and very slowly simmered, the water hardly moving for three or four hours, take up the head and knuckles, and let iheni cool, cut the head into proper pieces, and with the meat of the knuckles make plenty of niceTYP [ 514 3 TYP farce balls; cut the sinews into pieces for the turtle, return all the bones and jmrings into the stock pot, and continue simmering till all the juice is extracted ; strain it through a thick wet napkin, and set it to cool. When ready to finish take oif the fat, pour it from the sediment, and put it to simmer on the side of the grate, with tlie sweet hei'bs and spices as ordered for real turtle, if they have not already been put into the stock. Make a roux of flour and butter, and strain and mix the stock by degrees to it; when the flour is well cooked and very smooth, add the juice of a lemon or two, and the wine ; when all is prepared to taste, add the meat, and let it simmer till done enough. If there is no more made than is neces- sary for present use separate it before adding the wine and roux: a gill of wine is sufficient for each quart. Dish with farce balls and eggs. TYPHUS FEVER {Typhus gravior). It is also called malignant, putrid, and spotted fever, because of the malignancy of its nature, and the symptoms of putrefaction observed towards its close. It may be called also the pestilential fever of Europe, as in many of its symptoms it bears a great resemblance to thatdreadful disease, the plague. Persons of a lax habit, a melancholy disposition, and those whose vigour has been wasted by long fasting, watching, hard labour, excessive venery, frequent salivations, &c., are most liable to it. This fever is occasioned by foul air, from a number of people being confined in a narrow place not properly ventilated, from putrid animal and vegetable effluvia, &c. Hence it prevails in camps, jails, hospitals, and infirm- aries, especially where such places are too much crowded, and cleanliness is neglected. A close constitution of the air, with long rainy or foggy weather, likewise occasions putrid fevers. They often succeed great inundations in low and marshy countries, especially when these are pre- ceded or followed by a hot and sultry season. Living too much upon animal food, without a proper mixture of vegetables, or eating fish or flesh that has been Icept too long, is likewise apt to occasion this kind of fever. Hence sailors on long voyages and the inhabitants of besieged cities are very often visited with putrid fevers. Com that has been greatly damaged by rainy seasons or long keeping, and water which has become putrid by stagnation, &c., may likewise occasion this fever. Dead carcasses tainting the air, especially in hot seasons, are very apt to occasion putrid diseases. Hence tliis kind of fever often pre- vails in countries which are the scenes of war and bloodshed. This shows the propriety of removing burying-grounds, slaughter-houses, &c., to a proper distance from great towns. Want of cleanliness is a very general cause of putrid fevers. Hence they prevail amongst the poor inhabitants of large towns, who breathe a confined unwholesome air, and neglect clean- liness. Such meclianics as carry on dirty em- ployments, and are constantly confined within doors, are likewise very liable to this disease. We shall only add that putrid, malignant, or spotted fevers are highly infectious, and are therefore often communicated by contagion, for which reason all persons ought to keep at a distance from those affected with such diseases, unless their attendance is absolutely necessaiy. The malignant fever is generally preceded by languor, a remarkable weakness, or loss of strength, without any apparent cause. This is sometimes so great that the patient can scarcely walk, or even sit upright, without being in danger of fainting away. His mind, too, is greatly df^jected , he sighs, and is full of dreadful ap- prehensions. There is a nausea, and sometimes a vomiting of bile ; a violent pain of the head, with a strong pulsation or throbbing of the temporal arteries; the eyes often appear red and inflamed, with a pain at the bottom of the orbit; there is a noise in the ears, the breathing is laborious, and often interrupted with a sigh; the patient complains of a pain about the region of the stomach, and in his back and loins ; his tongue is at first white, but afterwards it appears black and chapped; and his teeth are covered with a black crust. He sometimes passes worms both upwards and downwards, is affected with tremors or shaking, and often becomes delirious. If blood be let it appears dissolved, or with a very small degree of cohesion, and soon becomes putrid; the stools smell extremely fetid, and are sometimes of a greenish, black, or reddish cast. Spots of a pale purple, dun, or black colour often appear upon the skin, and some- times there are violent hemorrhages or dis- charges of blood from the mouth, eyes, nose, &c. Putrid fevers may be distinguished from the inflammatory by the smallness of the pulse, the great dejection of mind, the dissolved state of the blood, the petechiae or purple spots, and the putrid smell of the excrements. They may like- wise be distinguished from the low or nervous fever by the heat and thirst being greater, the urine of a higher colour, and the loss of strength, dejection of mind, and all the other symptoms more violent. It sometimes happens, however, that the in- flammatory, nervous, and putrid symptoms are so blended together as to render it very difficult to determine to which class the fever belongs. In this case the greatest caution and skill are requisite. Attention must be paid to those symptoms which are most prevalent, and both the regimen and medicines adapted to them.TYP TYP [ 515 ] Inflammatory and nervous fevers may be converted into malignant and putrid hy top hot a regimen or improper medicines. The duration of putrid fevers is extremely uncertain ; sometimes they terminate between the seventh and fourteenth day, and at other times they are prolonged for five or six weeks. Their duration depends greatly upon the con- stitution of the patient, and the manner of treating the disease. The most favourable symptoms are a gentle looseness after the fourth or fifth day, with a ■warm mild sweat. These, when continued for a considerable time, often carry off the fever, and should never be imprudently stopped. Small miliary pustules, appearing between the petechias or purple spots, are likewise favour- able, as also hot scabby eruptions about the mouth and nose. It is a good sign when the pulse rises upon the use of wine or other cordials, and the nervous symptoms abate. Deafness coming on towards the decline of the fever is likewise often a favourable symptom, as are abscesses in the groin or parotid glands. Among the unfavourable symptoms may be reckoned an excessive looseness, with a hard swelled belly, large black or livid blotches breaking out upon the skin, aphthae in the mouth, cold clammy sweats, blindness, change of the voice, a wild staring of the eyes, difficulty of swallowing, inability to put out the tongue, and a constant inclination to uncover the breast. When the sweat and saliva are tinged ■with blood, and the urine is black, or deposits a black sooty sediment, the patient is in great danger. Starting of the tendons, and fetid, ichorous, involuntary stools, attended ■with cold- ness of the extremities, are generally the fore- runners of death. In the treatment of this disease we ought to endeavour, as far as possible, to counteract the putrid tendency of the humours, to support the patient's strength and spirits, and to assist nature in expelling the cause of this disease, by gently promothig perspiration and the other evacuations. It has been observed that putrid fevers are often occasioned by unwholesome air, and of course they must be aggravated by it. Care should, therefore, be taken to prevent the air from stagnating in the patient's chamber, to keep it cool, and renew it frequently by opening the doors or windows of some adjacent apart- ment. The breath and perspiration of persons in perfect health soon render the air of a small apartment noxious ; but this will sooner happen from the perspiration and breath of a person whose whole mass of humours are in a putrid state. Besides the frequent admission of fresh air, we would recommend the use of vinegar, ver- juice, juice of lemon, Seville orange, or any kind of vegetable acid that can be most readily obtained. These ought frequently to be sprinkled upon the floor, the bed, and every part of the room. They may also be evapo- rated with a hot iron or by boiling, &c. The fresh skins of lemons or oranges ought like- wise to be laid in different parts of the room, and they should be frequently held to the patient's nose. The use of acids in this manner would not only prove very refreshing to the patient, but would likewise tend to prevent the infection from spreading among those who attend him. Strong - scented herbs, as rue, tansy, rosemary, wormwood, &c., may likewise be laid in different parts of the house, and smelled to by those who go near the patient. The patient must not only be kept cool, but likewise quiet and easy. The least noise will affect his head, and the smallest fatigue will be apt to make him faint. Few things are of greater importance in this disease than acids, which ought to be mixed with all the patient's food as well as drink. Orange, lemon, and vinegar whey are all very proper, and may be drunk by turns according to the patient's inclination. They may be rendered cordial by the addition of wine in such quantity as tlio patient's strength seems to require. When he is very low he may drink negus, with only one- half water, and sharpened with the juice of bitter orange or lemon. In some cases a glass of wine may now and then be allowed. The most proper wine is Rhenish; but if the body be open, red port or claret is to be preferred. When the body is bound a tea-spoonful of the cream of tartar may be put into a cup of the patient's drink as there is occasion ; or he may drink a decoction of tamarinds, which will both quench his thirst and promote a discharge by stool. If camomile tea will sit upon his stomach it is a very proper drink in this disease. It may be sharpened by adding to every cup of tea 10 or 15 drops of the elixir of vitriol. The food must be light, as panada or groat gruel, to which a little wine may be added if the patient be weak and low; and they ought all to be sharpened with the juice of orange, the jelly of currants, or the like. The patient ought likewise to eat freely of ripe fruits, as roasted apples, currant or gooseberry tarts, preserved cherries or plums, &c. Taking a little food or drink frequently not only supports the spirits, but counteracts the putrid tendency of the humours, for which reason the patient ought frequently to be sipping small quantities of some of the acid liquors mentioned above, or any that may beTYP [ 516 ] TYP more agreeable to Ins palate, or more readily obtained. If he be delirious his feet and hands ought to Ije frequently fomented with a strong infusion of camomile flowers. This, or an infusion of the bark, to such as can afford it, cannot fail to have a good effect. Fomentations of this kind not only relieve the head by relaxing the vessels in the extremities, but, as their contents are absorbed and taken into the system, they must assist in preventing the putrescency of the humours. If an emetic be given at the beginning of this fever it will hardly fail to have a good effect; but if the fever has gone on for some days, and the symptoms are violent, vomits ai'e not quite so safe. The body, however, is always to be kept gently open by clysters or mild laxative medicines. Bleeding is seldom necessary in putrid fevers. If there be signs of an inflammation it may sometimes be permitted at the first onset, but the repetition of it generally proves hurtful. Blistering plasters are never to be used unless in the greatest extremities. If the petechia or spots should suddenly disappear, the patient's pulse sink remarkably, and a delirium, with other bad symptoms, come on, blistering may be permitted. In this case the blistering plasters are to be applied to the head, and inside of the legs or thighs ; but, as they are sometimes apt to occasion a gangrene, we would rather recom- mend warm cataplasms or poultices of mustard and vinegar to be applied to the feet, having recourse to blisters only in the utmost extre- mities. It is common in the beginning of this fever to give the emetic tartar in small doses, repeated every second or third hour till it shall either vomit, purge, or throw the patient into a sweat. This practice is very proper, provided it be not pushed so far as to weaken the patient. Much benefit has been derived from the use of the compound spirit of ether. Take compound spirit of ether, 3 drachms; strong camphor mixture, 7 ozs. Make a mixture, and take three table-spoonsful every three hours. In the most dangerous species of this disease, when it is attended with purple, livid, or black spots, the Peruvian bark must be administered. Sometimes, when joined with acids, it proves very successful, even in cases where the petechias had the most threatening aspect; but to answer this purpose it must not only be given in large do«es, but duly persisted in. The best method of administering the bark is certainly in substance. An ounce of it in powder may be mixed with half an English pint of water, and the same quantity of red wine, and sharpened with the elixir or the spirit of vitriol (sulphuric acid), which will both make it sit easier on the stomach, and render it more beneficial. Two or three ounces of the syrup of lemon may be added, and two table-spoonsful of the mixture taken eveiy two hours, or oftener if the stomach is able to bear it. Those who cannot take the bark in substance may infuse it in wine, or in the annexed form:— Take decoction of bark, ]^ oz.; tincture of the same, li drachm ; muriatic acid, 5 minims; syrup of orange-peel, 1 drachm. Malie a draught, to be taken every three or four hours, or oftener. If there be a violent looseness the bark must be boiled in red wine with a little cinnamon, and sharpened with the elixir of vitriol as above. Nothing can be more beneficial in this kind of looseness than plenty of acids, and such things as promote a gentle perspiration. If the patient be troubled with vomiting, 1 drachm of the subcarbonate of potash, dis- solved in 1^ oz. of fresh lemon juice, and made into a draught, with 1 oz. of simple cinnamon water and a bit of sugar, may be given and repeated as often as it is necessarj'. If swellings of the glands appear, their sup- puration is to be promoted by the ap[)lication of poultices, ripening cataplasms, &c. ; and as soon as there is any appearance of matter in them they ought to be laid open, and the poultices contitmed. Large ulcerous sores sometimes break out in various parts of the body in tlie decline of this fever, of a livid gangrenous appearance, and a most putrid cadaverous smell. These gradu- ally heal, and the patient recovers, by a plen- tiful use of Peruvian bark and wine, sharpened with the vitriolic acid. A most material circumstance to be attended to, both at the commencement of this fever and during its whole course, is to cover the patient lightly with bedclothes, and to keep his apart- ment cool and properly ventilated by allowing a regular and free admission of fresh air into it; and, in order to render it pleasant both to himself and attendants, it ought to be sprinkled several times a day with warm vinegar and camphorated spirit. Fumigations will also be advisable. Put 1 lb. of common salt into an ear'then vessel, and pour over it from time to time a small quantity of sulphuric acid till the whole salt is moistened. If the air be foul and peculiarly offensive, apply a gentle heat under the vessel to extricate a larger quantity of vapour ; but, in general, the simple addition of the acid to the salt will be found sufficient, unless the apartment is very large. Cleanli- ;.3ss, in the strictest sense of the word, is to be most cai'efully attended to ; and therefore the bed and body linen should be frequentlyULC TYP [ 517 ] clianged, and whenever the patient has a motion it ought to be instantaneously removed. For preventing putrid fevers we would re- commend a strict regard to cleanliness, a dry situation, sufficient exercise in the open air, wholesome food, and a moderate use of generous liquors. Infection ought, above all things, to be avoided. No constitution is proof against it. Persons have been seized with a putrid fever by only making a single visit to a patient in it; others have caught it by lodging for one night in a town where it prevailed; and some by attending the funerals of such as died of it. When a putrid fever seizes any person in a family the greatest attention is necessary to prevent the disease from spreading. The sick ought to be placed in a large apartment, as remote from the rest of the family as possible; he ought likewise to be kept extremely clean, and should have fresh air frequently let into his chamber ; whatever comes from him should be immediately removed, his linen should be frequently changed, and those in health ought to avoid all unnecessary communication with him. Any one who is apprehensive of having caught the infection ought immediately to take an emetic, and to work it off by drinking plen- tifully of camomile tea. This may be repeated in a day or two if the apprehensions still continue, or any unfavourable symptoms appear. The person ought likewise to take an infusion of the bark and camomile flowers for his ordi- nary drink, and before he goes to bed he may drink an English pint of pretty strong negus, or a few glasses of generous wine. Those who wait upon the sick in putrid fevers ought to wash their hands, and if pos- sible to change their clothes, before they go into company. When hemorrhages ensue, and purple or livid spots have appeared on the body of the patient, recourse must be had to the most powerful antiseptics, • such as vegetable and mineral acids, carbonic acid in every form, liquors in a state of fermentation, aerated waters, wine, cold affusion, and bark. Take oxy- muriatic acid, 20 minims; decoction of bark, 1^ oz.; tincture of bark, 3 drachms. Make a draught, to be taken as above. Clysters also of diluted vinegar may be administered. Take common vinegar, 3 drachms; infusion of camo- mile, 5 ozs. Mix for a clyster, If thrush arise, the gargles recommended in Putrid Sork Throat. In this disease the application of cold to the Lead might probably be advantageously sub- Btituted for a blister in those cases where there prevails either coma or delirium, or where there is great pain in the head, with much anxiety and restlessness. Having shaved the head, a large towel dipped in the coldest water may be applied all over it, renewing this process fre- quently until the patient feels relieved, the heat less, and a disposition to tranquil sleep supervenes. This opei-ation may be repeated at short intervals at first, and it will be desirable to do it with such quickness and perseverance as to pi'oduce some degree of shivering. In severe cases the application of powdered ice inclosed in a bladder to the shaven scalp may be substituted. In typhus, whatever may be the mode of action of yeast, it appears to be indisputable that fixed air takes off that extreme debility of tlie stomach, so conspicuously marked in dis- orders of this nature; and in proportion as that subsides the pulse rises, becomes slower and fuller, the burning heat on the skin dis- appears, and a truce is gained for the reception of nutrition. TYRE, ESSENCE OF, is merely a solution of lunar caustic (nitrate of silver) for dyeing the hair. U UDDER AND TONGUE: To Dress. Let the tongue be well cleaned and salted with common salt, and then saltpetre, after which it must lie three days; then boil it with a fine young udder that has some fat adhering thereto. When tolerably tender fasten the thick part of the udder, and roast tlie whole together. Serve up to table with good currant jelly sauce, first sticking into the udder several cloves. Some persons prefer curing tongues with the roots, which makes them look much larger; but the general practice is to cut the root off close to the gullet, leaving the fat under the tongue. Soak the root in salt and water, and clean it well before you dress it: lay the tongue also in salt for a day and a night before it is pickled. UDE'S SAUCES. The chief of the sauces used by M. Ude for meat, fish, &c., will be found under the head Sauce. We add hero two of his s^ji;eet sauces. French Arrowroot Sauce. Dilute a spoon- ful of arrowroot with white wine and sugar, and set it on the fire to boil. French Pudding Sauce. Add a little salt and some orange flowers to boiling milk; beat in the yolks of four eggs; stir on the fire till the whole becomes thickened, and then strain through a tammy : squeeze in the juice of a iemon. ULCERS. See Sores and Ulcers.URI UMB [ 518 ] UMBLES OF DEER: To Deess. Take a deer's kidney and the fat of the heart, and season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; fiy and stew them in gravy till they are tender, add a little lemon juice, and stuff the skirts with forcemeat made of the fat of the venison, some grated bread, bacon, pepper, mace, sage, and onion, mixed with the yolk of egg; tie the stuffed skirts to the spit, and roast them, after strewing over them thyme and lemon-peel. When done lay them in the middle, and the liicassee round them. URINE, BLOODY (Hematuria). This is a discharge of blood from the vessels of the kidneys or bladder, occasioned by their being either enlarged or injured. It is more or less dangerous according to the different circum- stances which attend it. When pure blood is voided suddenly, without interruption and without pain, it proceeds fi'om the kidneys ; but if the blood be in small quan- tity, of a dark colour, and emitted with heat and pain about the bottom of the belly, it proceeds from the bladder. When bloody urine is occasioned by a rough stone descending fi-om the kidneys to the bladder, which wounds the ureter, it is attended with a sharp pain in the back, and difficulty of making water. If the coats of the bladder are hurt by a stone, and the bloody urine follows, it is attended with the most acute pain, and a previous stoppage of urine. Bloody urine may likewise be occasioned by falls, blows, the lifting or carrying of heavy burdens, hard riding, or any violent motion. It may also proceed from ulcers of the bladder, from a stone lodged in the kidneys, or from violent purges, or sharp diuretic medicines, especially cantharides. Bloody urine is always attended with some degree of danger; but it is peculiarly so when mixed with purulent matter, as this shows an ulcer somewhere in the urinary passages. Some- times this discharge proceeds from excess of blood, in which case it is rather to be considered as a salutary evacuation than a disease. If the discharge, however, be very great, it may waste the patient's strength, and occasion an ill habit of body, a dropsy, or a consumption. The treatment of this disorder must be varied according to the different causes from which it proceeds. When it is owing to a stone in the bladder the cure depends upon an operation, a description of which would be foreign to our purpose. If it be attended with a plethora and symp- toms of inflammation, bleeding will be necessary. The body must likewise be kept open by emol- lient clysters or cooling purgative medicines, as cream of tartar, rhubarb, manna, or small doses of lenitive electuary. When bloody urine proceeds from blood dis- solved in it before it reaches the bladder, this is commonly the symptom of some malignant disease, as the small pox, a putrid fever, or the like. When there is reason to suspect an ulcer in the kidneys or bladder the patient's diet must be cool, and his drink of a demulcent, healing, balsamic quality, as decoctions of marsh-mallow roots with liquorice, solutions of gum arabic, &c. Three ounces of marsh-mallow roots and ^ oz. of liquorice may be boiled in two English quarts of water to one ; 2 ozs. of gum arabic and ^ oz. of purified nitre may be dissolved in the strained liquor, and a tea-cupful of it taken four or live times a day. The early use of astringents in this disease has often bad consequences. When the flux is stopped too soon, the grumous blood, by being confined in the vessels, may produce inflamma- tions, abscess, and ulcers. If, however, the case be urgent, or the patient seems to suffer from the loss of blood, gentle astringents may be necessary. In this case the patient may take 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. of lime water, with oz. of the tincture of Peruvian bark, throe times a day; or he may take 1 oz. or 2 ozs. of the conserve of roses three or four times a day, drinking a tea- cupful of the tincture of roses after it; or. if stronger styptics be necessary, ] drachm of Armenian bole in a cup of whey may be taken three or four times a day, or the an- nexed:—Take purified alum, ^ scruple; kino in powder, 5 grains. Make a powder, to be taken three times a day. URINE, EXCESSIVE. &e Diabetes. URINE, SUPPRESSION OF. DifBculty of passing the urine is seldom attended with much danger, unless through neglect it should terminate in total suppression, which must always be regarded as a dangerous complaint when it continues for any length of time, from the great distention of the bladder, and often consequent inflammation which ensue. When the difficulty of passing the urine has arisen in consequence of a blister, which is sometimes the case, the patient should drink plentifully of linseed tea, decoction of mallows, or barley water. When it proceeds from any other cause, besides the means just mentioned, flannels wrung out of a warm decoction of emollient herbs, or a bladder filled with warm water, should be kept constantly applied over the seat of the bladder; and emollient clysters should be frequently injected, to which 1 drachm of the tincture of opium may be added, as in every instance of this complaint, whether arising from stricture, gravel, inflammation, orus Q V AL [ 519 ] spasm, opiates will prove higlily serviceable, either by the mouth or in form of clyster. For an injection take thin decoction of bark, 4 ozs.; olive oil, ^ oz.; wine, or tincture of opium, 1 drachm. For a draught take mucilage of gum arable, 1 oz.; olive oil, 2 drachms. Mix them in a mortar, and add spirit of nitric ether, 1 drachm : tincture of opium, 25 drops; fennel water, ^ oz. A suppression of urine has been removed by throwing cold water over the patient's thighs, and by applying ice to the bottom of the abdo- men when other remedies have failed. The muriated tincture of iron, 10 drops every ten minutes until some sensible effect is obtained, often proves efficacious in suppressions of urine; and in all irritations about the neck of the bladder, the liquor of potass, with the tincture of opium, is a very useful remedy. In desperate cases, when all medical means fail for the relief of suppressed urine, the operation of puncturing the bladder becomes necessary. USQUEBAUGH. Proof spirit, 1 gallon; stoned raisins, 1 lb. ; cinnamon, cloves, and nutmegs, of each ^ oz.; aniseed, 1 oz. ; hay saffron, ^ oz. ; brown sugar, 2 lbs.; rind of one orange. Digest fourteen days, then filter or clarify. Should it turn milky add a little strong spirit, or clarify it with alum, or filter through magnesia. UXBRIDGE CAKES. Take 1 lb. of flour, 7 lbs. of currants, half a nutmeg, and 4 lbs. of butter. Eub the butter cold into the flour, mix the currants therewith, and knead the whole with as much good yeast as will make it a light paste, after which let it stand an hour to rise. V, VACCINATION. See Cow Pox. VACCINE MATTER. This may be pre- served for a long time, pressed closely between two flat pieces of glass. The point of the lancet to be rubbed upon it at the time of vaccinating. Even the pustules, dried and reduced to powder, kept in a closely stopped phial, have imparted the cow pox, a little of the powder being spi'inkled on the wound made by the lancet. VALERIAN. The root of common valerian [Valeriana officinalis) is bitter and acrid, with a penetrating and fetid odour, very disagreeable to some persons, but not so much objected to by others ; but it has the singular power of attracting cats, which, as soon as they see the plant, roll upon it, and it is with difficulty that they can be driven from it. It seems to have the effect of causing a sort of intoxication similar to that produced by opium on Orientals. Used medicinally the root is gently stimulant, with a marked tendency towards the nervous system, but without any narcotic effect. In large doses it produces a sense of heaviness and dull pain in the head, with various otlier nervous indications. It is powerfully excitant, and acts secondarily as an antispasmodic, sudorific, and worm destroyer. It has been given with success, either alone or combined with Peruvian bark, in intermittent fevers. It is, in fact, held hj some to be very tonic and stimulant, and appears to be also slightly narcotic. The virtues of valerian root appear to depend on an essential volatile oil, which indicates the presence of much camphor. It has been advantageously employed in hysteria, hypochondriasis, epilepsy, &c. It may be given in substance, combined with a small portion of mace or cinnamon, or in the forms of infusion or tincture. The dose of the powdered root may be from 1 scruple to 1 drachm three or four times a day. An infusion may be made by pouring 7 fluid ozs. of boiling water upon 2 drachms of the root coarsely powdered, di- gesting for an hour, and, when the liquor is cold, straining. The dose is from 1 fluid oz. to 2 fluid ozs. twice or thrice a day. It should not be given with solutions of sulphate of iron, nor with infusions of yellow bark, as these are decomposed by it. VALET. For the following we are indebted to Webster and Parkes' " Encyclopoedia of Domestic Economy : "— In small families he is expected to assist as footman also : but his particular province is to attend exclusively to the personal accommodation of his master. Upon him he waits during all times of dressing and undressing; brushes, folds up his clothes, or places them in readiness for him. All repairs he sees done ; and, on putting away cloth clothes into a wardrobe, he uses the precaution of covering them with brown holland or linen wrappers to secure them from dust. Boots and shoes should be placed every morning ready in the dressing room. The valet should see that the housemaid cleans the grate, lights the fire, and sweeps and dusts the room, while he prepares the washing-table by filling the ewer with soft water, and the carafe with fresh spring water, and by putting in their right places basins, towels, and brushes; hot water and the shaving apparatus should be at hand; the linen and slippers airing at the fire; and the rest of the apparel to be worn hung across the backs of cliairs, and covered over with holland wrappers. After the dressing is over the valet should take the earliest opportunity of cleaning andVAL TAR [ 520 ] putting away the razors, and everything which has been used in its proper place. For wet weather, when his master may come in from riding, the valet should be always pre- pared, by having ready the necessary changes of linen and clothing, and by being himself in waiting to remove the damp clothing, and to prevent its being injured in the drying. I3efore putting damp woollen clothing to the fire it should be rubbed with a sponge, the way of the nap, until the smoothness of the surface is restored. If dried without this precaution, brushing will not be effectual in removing the i"oughness. In preparing for journeys the valet should endeavour to ascertain the probable time of his master's absence that he may be able to provide a sufficiency of linen and other clothing. At the inns he takes charge of these supplies, and, as at home, places everything in readiness for the periods of dressing and undi-essing. Besides this, if his master be unattended by his foot- man, it is his duty to attend to his accommodation generally, as well as in his dressing-room. Whenever his master needs his services he must be at hand ; even at table, if more than ordinary attendance be required, he must be ready to wait. VALETUDINARIANS. In acute diseases, notwithstanding the doctrines to the contrary, rest is absolutely necessai-y; but when sickly people get into a state of convalescence, exer- cise, under a proper system, is essential for their recover}'. They are apt, however, to be alarmed at the pain and inconvenience which often accompany their tirst attempts to take exercise, at least to any extent. They ouglit, therefore, to desist as soon as they begin to find themselves fatigued; but every day they will feel enabled to bear it longer, and the more they persevere the stronger they will become. Gentle exercise and good air afford such sur- prising relief to convalescents, that their friends and medical advisers ought to insist on a trial being made, disregarding all objections to the con- trary, which the languid state of their mind and body may occasion. Exercise in a cot or ham- mock, when the patient is exceedingly weak, by swinging it from side to side, will afford an excellent substitute when other means are not attainable. When invalids return from exer- cising, should they find themselves chilled by the cold air, they ought, instead of warming themselves by the fire, to sit down, well clothed, in a remote part of the room until their feelings are gradually reconciled to the temperature of the place they are in. - By adopting this pre- caution all the hazard of rushing from one extreme to another may be avoided. Not a day should be allowed to pass without taking a certain degree of exercise, accommo- dated to individual strengtli. And as few per- sons, more especially invalids, can long enjoy health under a state of indolence, the latter, wh(!n confined at home by bad weather, should adopt some kind of active domestic exercise like that of shuttlecock, or any similar amuse- ment, several times in a well-ventilated room, taking care, however, to avoid the draught of air. This will be found a more salutary mode of warming the body than by the heat of fires. VANILLA CREAM. Take 2 drachms of vanilla, two quarts of milk, the yolks of three eggs, 5 ozs. of sugar, and a pint of cream ; beat up the yolks well with the milk, and then add the other ingredients; set the whole on a moderate fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon till the cream will adhere to it; then strain and serve it cold. See Cream, Vani:,la. VANILLA CREAM, WHIPPED. Put a pinch of gum dragon into a pint of cream, add a small quantity of orange-flower water, powder sugar to the taste, and a little milk in which some vanilla has been boiled, and then strained ; whip these ingredients to a whisk nntil the whole is sufficiently frothed, then lay it carefully on a dish in a pyramidal form, and serve it. VANILLA ICE. Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a froth in a preserving-pan, and pour on them the yolks of eight eggs, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar; whip the whole well with a wiiisk, and pour in by degrees two quarts of boiling ci'eam ; continue to whip it for some little time, and then put it on the fire, with i oz. of vanilla, bruised, still whipping. When it has boiled up three or four times strain it, and freeze as usual. See Ioe : To Pr;EPARE. VANILLA STICKS. Take some march- pane paste, I lb. of chocolate, and the same of vanilla; mix these well into a paste, and then form it into sticks like the vanilla in its original form ; lay them on a sheet of paper, and bake in a slow oven. VARNISH. [See Amber Varnish, Copal, French Polish, Furniture (Cleaning), and Lackering.) The following are some of the most approved forms for varnish :— Black Japan Varnish for Leather. Take boiled linseed oil, 1 pint; burnt umber, i lb.; asphaltum, ^ oz. Boil, and add a sufficient quantity of oil of turpentine. Common Varnish. Take gum .juniper, 8 ozs.; Venice turpentine, 6 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 2 pints. Digest in a gentle heat till the gum and turpentine are dissolved. Gold Varnish for Leather. Take tur- meric root and gamboge, of ea-vh 1^ scruple ; oil of turpentine, 2 pints : seed-lac and gum juniper, of each 4 ozs.; dragon's blood, Joz,;C 521 ] VEA VAR Venice turpentine, 2 ozs. ; pounded glass or clean sand, 4 ozs. Pour off the clear solution. India Rubijer Varnish. Put into a bottle 2 ozs. of India rubber cut very small, add 1 lb. of spirit 0*" iurpentine, and stop the bottle closely that the spirit may not evaporate; leave it two days without moving ; then stir the liquor with a wooden spatula, and if the India rubber is swollen and has absorbed the spirit, add a suBicient quantity for it just to swim in the liquid. Stir it every forty-eight hours till the India rubber is quite dissolved, which is ascer- tained by squeezing a little of it between the fingers. When in this state put it into a glass bottle, and keep it well corked till wanted for use. The longer it is kept the better it becomes. Le Blond's Varnish for Prints. Take of balsam of capivi 4 lbs.; copal in powder, 1 lb. Add the copal by single ounces every day to the balsam, keeping it in a warm place or in the sun, and stirring it often. When all is dis- solved add a sufficient quantity of Chio tur- pentine. Picture Varnish. Take of mastich 12 ozs.; Venice turpentine, 2^ ozs.; camphor, i drachm ; pounded glass or clean sand, 4 ozs.; oil of turpentine, 3 J pints. Pour off the clear solution. Used for oil paintings. Red Varnish. Take of gum juniper 4 ozs. ; seed-lac, 2 ozs.; mastich and choice benzoin, of each 1 oz. ; Venice turpentine, 2 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart. Used for violins and cabinetwork. Reddish Varnish. Take of gum juniper 8 ozs.; shellac, 2 ozs. ; black resin, 4 ozs.; Venice turpentine, 6 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart. This is used both upon wood and metals. Soft Brilliant Varnish. Take of gum juniper 6 ozs.; elemi, 4 ozs.; gum anime, 1 oz.; camphor, ^ oz. ; rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart. For woodwork and pasteboard. Transparent Japan Varnish for Tinware. Take of oil of turpentine 8 ozs. ; oil of lavender, 6 ozs. ; copal, 2 ozs. ; camphor, 1 drachm. Use a suitable degree of heat. Transparent Varnish. Take of gum juniper 8 ozs.; Venice turpentine, 4 ozs.; mastich, 2 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 2 pints. Digest till the ingredients are dissolved. Turpentine Varnish. Take of black resin 1^ lb.; oil of turpentine, 2 pints. Melt the resin, and, after having removed it from the fire, mix in gradually the turpentine. If necessary strain. Varnish for Coloured Drawings. Take of Canada balsam ] oz. ; oil of turpentine, 2 ozs. Warm them together so that they may mix. Tlie drawings should be first sized with a jelly of isinglass, and when diy apply the varnish, which will make them resemble oil paintings. Varnish for Grates, or Brunswick Black. Take of common asphaltum I lb.; melt it, and add gradually half a pint of linseed oil and one quart of oil of turpentine. See Brunswick Black. Varnish for Plaster Casi's. Take white soap and white wax, of each J oz.; boiling water, 1 quart. White Hard Varnish. Take of mastich 4 ozs.; gum juniper and Venice turpentine, of each 3 ozs.; pounded glass or very clean sand, to prevent the gums from forming an im- penetrable lump, 4 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 2 pints. Digest till the gums are dissolved. White Polishing Varnish. Take of mastich 2ozs.; gum juniper, 8 ozs.; elemi, 1 oz. ; Strasburg turpentine, 4 ozs.; rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart. This is used upon metal, and polished with pumice-stone powder. In the preparation of all the foregoing varnishes, except India Rubber, the gums, &c., should be all either powdered or bruised, and where not specifically mentioned it will be found that a gentle or moderate heat, and occasional stirring of the ingredients, will accelerate the process, and render it more complete. As the articles are all more or less combustible, care must be taken that the heat be applied very cautiously, and that the flame of a candle or other burning body be not brought near to the evaporating fluids, as they will readily take fire, and much mischief may be the result. VEAL. The names of joints are as follow:— 1. Loin, best end. 2. Loin, chump end. 3. Fillet. 4. Hind knuckle. 5. Fore-knuckle. C. Neck, best end. 7. Neck, scrag end. 8. Blade-bone. 9. Breast, best end. 10. Breast, brisket end. Veal should be fine in the grain, firm, white, and fat, and the leg bone small. The finest calves have the smallest kidneys, and their being well covered with thick white fat, indicates good veal. The fiilet of a cow calf is to be preferred on account of the udder. The prime joints are the fillets, the loin, the chump end of the loin, and the best end of the neck. To[ 522 ] VEA VEA keep veal the same directions may be followed Avhich are given for keeping beef. When the fillet is to be roasted it should be washed, well dried, the bone taken out, and the space filled with a fine stuffing, part of which should be under the flap, then formed into a round, and firmly skewered. That the fire may be clear and strong, it should be made up some time befoi-e putting down the roast, which should at first be placed at some distance from it, and be frequently and well basted with butter. When about half roasted a piece of white paper is tied over the fat; a little before serving it is removed; the meat is then sprinkled with salt, dredged with flour, and well basted to froth it. When dished finely melted butter is poured over it, with which may or may not be mixed some lemon pickle or brown gravy. It is garnished with cut lemon. Veal is expected to come to table looking delicately clean, and it is so easily discoloured that you must be careful to have clean water, a clean vessel, and constantly catch the scum as soon and as long as it rises. Send up bacon, fried sausages, or pickled pork, greens and parsley, and butter and onion sauce. Veal requires particular care to roast it brown. Let the fire be the same as for beef— a sound large fire for a sound large joint, and a brisker for a smaller; put it at some distance from the fire to soak thoroughly, and then draw it near to finish it brown. When first laid down it is to be basted : baste it again occa- sionally. Wben the veal is on the dish pour on it I lb. of melted butter: if you have a little brown gravy by you add that to the butter. With those joints that are not stuffed send up forcemeat in balls, or rolled into sausages, as garnish to the dish, or fried pork sausages. Bacon and greens are also expected with boiled veal. A fillet of veal of from 12 lbs. to 16 lbs. will require from four to five hours at a good fire. Make more stuffing and forcemeat, and put them under the lap, that there may be some left to eat cold or to season a hash; brown it, and pour good melted butter over it. Garnish with thin slices of lemon, and cakes or balls of stuffing, or duck stuffing, or fried pork sausages, curry sauce, bacon and greens, &c. A bit of the brown outside is a favourite ■with the epicure in roasts. The kidney cut out, sliced, and broiled, is a high relish, which some bons vivants are fond of. A loin is the best part of a calf, and will take about three hours' roasting. Paper the kidney fat and the bade Some cooks send it up on a toast, which is eaten with the kidney and the fat of this part, which is as delicate as any marrow. If there is more of it than you Junk there will be eaten with the veal, before you roast it cut it out: it will make an excellent suet pudding. Take care to have your fire long enough to brown the ends. Same accompani- ments as above. A shoulder requires for roasting from three hours to three hours and a half. Stuff it with the forcemeat ordered for the fillet of veal in the under side. Neck, best end, will take two hours. Same accompaniments as for fillet. The scrag part is best made into a pie or broth. Breast, from an hour and a half to two hours. Let the caul remain till it is almost done, when take it off to brown it: baste, flour, and froth it. Or, instead of roasting, boil it enough; put it in a cloth between two pewter dishes, with a weight on the upper one, and let it remain till cold ; then pare and trim it, egg and crumb it, and broil or warm it in a Dutch oven. Serve with it capers or wow-wow sauce. Breast of mutton may be dressed in the same way. VEAL: To Carve. This part, which is called the brisket, is the thickest, but it is gristly. Insert your knife about four inches from the edge of this at a, and cut through it to b, to separate the ribs thei'efrom; then ask which part is chosen. The sweetbread will be found at c. VEAL: To Choose. In a calf the fore quarters contain the shoulders, neck, and breast; the hind-quarters consist of the legs, knuckles, fillets, and loins. The head and entrails are called the pluck, and the latter consists of the heai't, liver, lights, melt, and sweetbread, of which there are two, called the throat and the windpipe sweetbread. In judging of the quality of veal observe the vein in the shoulder, for if the colour be of a bright red or bluish cast the animal has been recently killed; but if it looks greenish, yellowish, or blackish, or feels more than usually clammy and limber, it is stale. If there are upon it any greenish spots it is either already, or soon will be tainted. Should it have been wrapped up in wet cloths it will soon become musty, on which account it is always necessary to examine it by the smell. The first part that becomes tainted is the loin under the Iddney, and the flesh when stale will be soft[ 523 ] VEA VEA and slimy. The neck and breast are first tainted at tlie upper end, in which case the flesh has a dirty yellowish or green appearance, and the sweetbread will feel particularly clammy. The leg, when lately killed, will feel stiff at the joint; but if stale it will be limber, and the flesh discoloured with greenish or yellowish spots. The flesh of a bull calf is of a firmer grain, a livelier red, and the fat more curled than that of a cow calf. In choosing a calf's head be careful in examining the eyes, for if they are sunk into the sockets, or are wrinkled and dull, it is stale; but if, on the contrary, they are full and lively, it is fresh and good. VEAL A LA BECHAMEL. Blanch two throat sweetbreads, let them stew fifteen minutes in some good braise, take them out, and let them cool; then trim them neatly round, cut them in rather thin slices, and put them into some bechamel sauce: a few mushrooms are a very good improvement. Make the whole very hot, and serve. VEAL, BREAST OF: To Dress. You may either roast the joint whole, or take off the two ends for a stew: in either case melted butter must be poured over it. If any be left cut it into pieces, put them into a stewpan with some broth or water, and add thereto a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an anchovy. Stew the meat till it is tender, and thicken with butter, flour, and a little catsup. Instead of roasting the breast you may stew it, after cutting off' the two ends; but the sweetbread should be served whole, either stewed or parboiled, covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch oven. Some mushrooms, truffles, and morels will be an agreeable accompaniment to the breast of veal. VEAL, BREAST OF : To Roll. Having boned the breast, and taken off" the thick skin and gristle, beat the meat with a rolling-pin; season with herbs chopped finely, salt, pepper, and mace ; cover the veal with some slices of ham, or roll it with two or three calves' tongues which have been boiled and skinned; bind the whole with a cloth, and fasten it with tape ; let it simmer until tender, and then lay it under a weight till quite cold. You may put in or round the veal either pig or calf's feet boned; also the yolks of eggs, beet-root grated ham, and chopped parsley. VEAL, BREAST OF (Collaeed). Bone a breast of veal, and beat it; rub it over with yolk of egg, and strew over a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, a large handful of parsley chopped small, a few sprigs of sweet majoram, a little lemon-peel shred fine, and an anchovy pounded and mixed with a few bread crumbs. Roll it up tightly, bind it with tape, and wrap it in a cloth; let it boil two hours and a half in salt and water, then take it out, hang up one end to drain, and put it into the following pickle : a pint of salt and water, and half a pint of vinegar. VEAL, BREAST OF (Glace). Cut the breast as square as possible, bone it Avithin two inches of the gristle, tie down the meat so that the joint may look very plump, and cut the soft bones beyond the gristle. Put the breast into a lai'ge saucepan, with three or four carrots, as many onions, two bay leaves, two cloves, and a ladleful of stock ; cover the veal with rashers of bacon and a buttei'ed paper; set it on a large fire to make it boil, and tiien lessen it; put some fire on the saucepan lid, and so leave it. When about three parts done take out the carrots, &c., let the liquor fall to a glaze, and when quite done turn the meat over, that the upper part may take the glaze also, and then dish the joint; put two ladlesful of Espagnole and a spoonful of stock into a sauce- pan, detach the glaze from it over the fire, and pour the sauce over the veal. Two hours and a half are required to dress a breast of veal in this manner. VEAL, BREAST OF (Marinated). Take a breast of veal, cut it into pieces, and let them boil in some stock till three parts done; then take them out, and marinate them for about a quarter of an hour with two spoonsful of vinegar, a little of the stock the meat was boiled in, some pepper and salt, two cloves of garlic, four spices, sliced onions, thyme, and a bay leaf; drain it, and fry it of a good colour with parsley. VEAL, BREAST OF (Porcupine of). Bone a large breast of veal, and rub it over with two yolks of eggs ; then spread the meat on a board, and lay over it some thin slices of bacon, a handful of parsley shred fine, five eggs boiled hard and chopped small, a little lemon- peel cut fine, the crumb of a penny loaf soaked in cream, and season the whole with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Roll up the veal, and skewer it tightly; then cut some fat bacon, the lean of boiled ham, and some pickled cucumbers, and with this lard the veal in rows, according to the order last mentioned; put the veal into an earthen pot with a pint of water, cover it closely, and set it in a slow oven for two hours. When done skim off the fat, and strain the gravy into a stewpan, with the addition of a glass of white wine, a little lemon pickle, caper liquor, and a spoonful of mushroom catsup; thicken with butter rolled in flour, lay the veal in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Make a forcemeat thus :—The crumb of a penny loaf, i lb. of beef suet cut fine,- the yolks of four eggs, and some chopped oysters;[ 524 ] VEA VEA mix the whole, and season with Caj'enne pepper, salt, and nutmeg; lay it upon a caul, roll it up closely, bind it in a cloth, and let it Loil for an hour. When done cut it into four slices, put one at each end, and the others on the sides; cut a sweetbread in slices, fry them, and lay them round the veal with some mushrooms. This is a noble dish for the bottom of a table when there is no game. VEAL, BREAST OF (Ragouted). Half roast and then bone a breast of veal, and put it into a tossing-pan, with a quart of veal gravy, 1 oz. of morels, and the same of truffles ; stew till tender, and previously to thickening the gravy put in a few oysters, pickled mushrooms, and cucumbers cut small, with three or four hard eggs ; cut the sweetbread in slices, and fry them of a light brown. Serve up the veal with the gravy poured hot over it. Lay the sweetbread round, with truffles, morels, and eggs upon it: garnish with pickled barberries. This is a good dish either for the top or side at dinner, or a bottom one for supper. VEAL, BREAST OF (Roasted). Breast of veal should be roasted with the caul on till almost done enough ; then take it up, flour, and baste it. VEAL, BREAST OF (Stewed). Put a breast of veal into a saucepan, with a little stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, and let it stew gently until quite tender. When done lay the meat in a dish, skim and strain the liquor, and serve over the meat. Garnish with forcemeat balls. VEAL, BREAST OF (Stuffed). Take I lb. of fillet of veal and 1 lb. of udder ; mince and mi.^ with them parsley, shallots, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolks of three eggs ; cut off the end of the rib-bones of a breast of veal, make an incision between the top of the meat and ribs, which fill with as much of the farce as it will hold ; then sew it up that none of the farce may escape, lay the veal in a braising-pan between rashers of bacon, add some poelee, and stock if necessary, and braise it for three hours. When done let it drain, untie, and glaze it; put some reduced Espagnole, a bit of glaze, and 1 oz. of butter into the liquor; let the latter dissolve, stir it well, and pour it over the breast of veal. VEAL, BROILED (Venetian way). Cut some slices of veal tolerably thick and large, and let them marinate for about an hour in a little oil, chopped parsley, mushrooms, shallots, bay leaf, thyme, basil, pepper, and salt; let as much of the marinade adhere to them as you possibly can, strew over them bread crumbs, and broil them gently ; baste them with the remains of the marinade, and servo with a squeeze of a lemon or a Seville orango over them. VEAL BROTH (1). Stew a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water, and add thereto 2 ozs. of rice or vermicelli, some salt, and a little mace. When the meat is thoroughly done, and the liquor reduced about one-half, it will be fit for use. VEAL BROTH (2). Take 2 lbs. of lean beef, 1 lb. of scrag of veal, 1 lb. of scrag mutton, sweet herbs, and ten peppercoms ; put the whole into a saucepan, with five quarts of water, and let it simmer till reduced to three quarts ; then take it off, and set it to cool, after which clear it from fat. If agreeable an onion may be added. VEAL CAKE. Boil hard si.x or eight eggs, cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces at the bottom of a pot; add thereto some chopped parsley, lay thereon slices of veal and ham, add more egg, then shake in another layer of parsley, with pepper and salt, and so on alternately till the pot is nearly full; then put in water enough to cover it, lay thereon about 1 oz. of butter, tie it over with paper, and bake it about an hour. When cold it may be put into a mould. VEAL CANNELONS. Cut your veal into very thin slices all the same size—at least three inches square ; lay on each slice some godiveau, roll it up so that it may not be more than an inch thick, fasten all the edges with white of egg, so that they may look like pieces of cane, and stew them in a covered pan with veal gravy and consomme. When done drain them, strain the sauce, take off all the fat, and let it cool to glaze the cannelons. VEAL CHOPS, BREADED. Take six or seven handsomely cut chops, season them with salt and pepper, and put them into melted butter. When sufficiently soaked put them into beaten eggs, take them out, and roll each separately in bread crumbs ; make the chops as round as you can with your hand, and lay them in a dish. When all are breaded broil them slowly over a moderate fire, that the bread may not be too highly coloured. Serve with clear gravy. VEAL CHOPS, FONDANTES. Separate the chops from the bones, take out all the sinews, mince the meat very small, and also some streaked bacon ; mix them together, and season the whole with pepper, salt, and spices; spread this farce on pieces of caul, making each the shape of a chop ; buiy a bone in every one, so that the end only will be seen; cover these with bread crumbs mixed with sweet herbs, and fry them in lard : let the pan be very hot. Serve them dry, or not, as you please. VEAL, CHUMP OF (A la Daube). CutVEA VEA [ 525 ] off the chump end of the loin, take out the. aitch-bone, and put in its place some forcemeat; tie it up tightly, and lay it in the stewpan, with the bone that has been taken out, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and a pint of good veal stock; cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it; cover the pan closely, and let it simmer for a couple of hours ; then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. Serve it with mushroom or sorrel sauce in the dish, or any sauce you think better. VEAL, COLD. Cut some cold veal into thin slices, the size aijd thickness of half a crown, dip them into the yolk of an egg well beaten, and cover them with bread crumbs, sweet herbs, and lemon peel shred fine, and grated nutmeg. Put a little fresh butter into a pan, and keep it quite hot; fry the veal in it, and when done lay it on a dish by the side of the fire. Make a little gravy of a bone of veal, shnke a little flour into the pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little lemon juice, pour it over tlie veal, and garnish with lemon. VEAL COLLOPS (1). Cut your meat into long collops, beat them well, lay on each a piece of bacon the same size, and spread forcemeat over all: season highly with garlic and Cayenne. Having rolled your collops up tightly about the size of two fingers, and two or three inches in length, fasten them with skewers; next rub them over with egg, fry them till they are of a nice brown, and serve them with a rich brown gravy. VEAL COLLOPS (2). Cut some cold roast veal into dice, and give them a toss up over the fire in a little butter with a pinch of flour; then add a little stock, shred parsley, scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; keep it on the fire till the sauce adheres to the mince, and then put the whole on a dish. Make a paste with a little flour, butter, water, and the yolk of an egg; dissolve a little salt in the water you use, roll the paste out very thin, and lay the cold mince .in little heaps on half of it; turn the other half over it, cut it round these little heaps, pinch the edges of all to keep in the meat, and fry your collops. VEAL, CURRY BALLS FOR. Take the yolk of an egg boiled hard, a bit of fresh butter about the size of the egg, and as much bread crumbled small as sufficient; beat the whole in a mortal', and season with curry powder. Make the composition into balls. VEAL CUTLETS : To Fry. Cut the veal into small pieces, beat them a little before dipping them into egg beaten up with salt, next sprinkle with bread crumbs; fry the cutlets till they are of a light brown in boiling lard, serve them with some gravy or mushroom sauce, and garnish with slices of ham or rashers of bacon. Force meat or pork sausages form an excellent accompaniment to a dish of veal cutlets. VEAL CUTLETS : To Stkw. Cut them about half an inch thick, flatten them with a chopper, and fry them in fresh butter or dripping. When brown on one side turn and do them on the other, continuing to do so till they are thoroughly done, which will be in about a quarter of an hour. Make a gravy of some trimmings, which put into a stewpan, with a bit of soft butter, an onion, a roll of lemon-peel, a blade of mace, some thyme, parsley, and a bay leaf; stew the whole over a slow fire for an hour, and then strain it; put I oz. of butter into another pan, and when melted mix with it as much flour as will dry it up ; stir this for a few minutes, then add the gravy by degrees till the whole is mixed, boil it five minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and put it to the cutlets. Some browning may be added, together with mushroom or walnut catsup, or lemon pickle. VEAL CUTLETS IN CRUST. Make a marinade with melted butter, mushrooms, shallots, hall a clove of garlic, pepper, and salt, and let the cutlets simmer in this for an hour; then wrap them in puff paste with all the seasoning, put them in a deep dish, and bake them in an oven ; baste witii yolks of eggs, and make a hole into the middle, in which pour a good clear sauce when ready to serve. VEAL CUTLETS, LARDED. Cut the best end of a neck of veal into chops, leaving only a part of the long bone; lard, blanch, and stew them, and when done drain and fry them. Place them round a dish, with green truGBe or white mushroom sauce in the middle. VEAL CUTLETS A LA MAINTENON. Cut the veal into slices about three parts of an inch thick, beat them, and rub them on both sides with egg. Next dip them into a mixture of crumbs of bread, parsley, thyme, marjoram, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. After this put them into papers, which must be folded over them. In this state broil the cutlets, and when done serve them with melted butter and catsup separately. VEAL CUTLETS, MARINATED. Ve'al cutlets marinated are done the same as for all marinades ; or you may do them as in Veal, Bre.\st of (Marinated), and serve with what- ever sauce you approve of. VEAL CUTLETS IN PAPER. Chop up all sorts of sweet herbs, season with pepper and salt, and mix with a little oil; roll the cutlets in it so that they may be well covered; then wrap them in paper well buttered, broil them slowly, and serve with or without sauce. VEAL CUTLETS WITH RAGOUT. Cut some large cutlets from the fillet, beat them flat, and lard them ; strew over them pepper, Bait, bread crumbs, and shred parsley; thenVEA [ 526 ] VE A make a I'agout of veal sweetbreads and niush- I'ooms; fry the cutlets of a nice brown in melted butter, lay them in a dish, and serve the ragout very hot over them. VEAL CUTLETS WITH SOUR SAUCE. I^et the cutlets be moderately thick, put them into a saucepan with just sufficient water to cover them, and when half done take them out, and let them drain and cool. Make a tbin batter with eggs and a little flour, set a frying- pan on the fire with some lard, and as soon as it is hot dip the cutlets in the batter, and fry them of a nice brown. Serve with sauce made of verjuice, salt, and pepper. VEAL CUTLETS, STEWED. Cut part of a neck of veal into cutlets, shorten them, and fry them of a nice brown colour; then stew them in some good gravy, thickened with a little flour, until tender, and then add some catsup, Cayenne, salt, a few trufSes and morels, and some pickled mushrooms. VEAL CUTLETS WITH SWEET HERBS. Chop all sorts of sweet herbs, mushrooms, a little winter savory, shallots, pepper, and salt, with a spoonful of oil or butter; dip the cutlets in this, aird reduce the sauce to make it stick ; do them over with egg and bread crumbs, and set them in the oven to bake ; then add a glass of white wine and a little cullis to the sauce, skim it well, and when the cutlets are done lay them on a dish, and serve them to table with the sauce poured ovei*. VEAL, DUNELM OF. Stew some mush- rooms very gently for an hour and a half in butter, with mace, salt, and pepper; let them cool, and mince them; dust in flour till the butter becomes a roux, and work in by degrees a little cream till it obtains the consistency of a sauce; simmer and cook it till smooth, and m'n e the meat the same size and quantity as the mushrooms. Butchers' meat I'equires onions, and venison civet and port wine. VEAL, FILLET OF (in a Ragout). Take out the bone of a large white fillet of veal, and put into its place plenty of good forcemeat; tie it up well, put it on the spit, fasten buttered paper over, and roast it. Have a ragoiit the same as for Veal, Loin of (with Ragout); cut the artichokes into any form you may think proper, and place the veal in the centre of the dish, with the artichokes round. Serve the ragout round, but not over the veal. VEAL, FILLET OF (Roasted). Stuff it with the same ingredients as directed for Veal, Shoulder of (Roasted), and roast it according to the same directions. The fat should be prepared. VEAL, FILLET OF (Roasted with Col- MPs). Cut from your fillet what collops are necessary ; then take an udder, and fill it with forcemeat; roll it round, tie it across, and roast it. Put the collops in the dish, and lay the udder in the middle. Garnish with sliced lemon. VEAL, FILLET OF (Stewed). Stuff it and half bake it, with a little stock in the dish ; then stew it with the stock it was baked in, with some good gravy and a little Madeira, and when done enough thicken the sauce with flour ; add catsup, a little Cayenne, salt, and lemon juice; give it a boil, and serve it over the meat. VEAL, FLORENTINE OF. Take two veal kidneys, mince them with their fat very small, and mix them with-a few cuiTants, the yolks of four or five eggs boiled hard and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, some bread crumbs, and candied lemon-peel cut small: seas(m with nutmeg, cloves, salt, mace, a little mountain wine, and some oi'ange-flower water. Line the bottom of a dish with some nice puff paste, put in the above, cover it with puff paste, and set it to bake in a slow oven. VEAL FORCEMEAT. Take of undressed lean veal, freed from skin and sinews, 1 lb., as much beef or veal suet, and the same quantity of bread crumbs ; chop fine 2 drachms of parsley ; of lemon-peel, sweet herbs, onions, each 1 drachm ; i drachm of allspice beaten to a fine powder; and pound the whole in a mortar, adding thereto the yolk and white of an egg; rub the whole well together, and season it with pepper and salt. Its flavour may be heightened by a cold boiled pickled tongue, anchovy, Cayenne, shallot, or curry powder. See Force- meat FOR Veal. VEAL, FRICANDEAU OF. Take the round or part of a round of a fillet, and fry it in butter of a nice brown, with onions cut in slices, and a little garlic ; then set it to stew in some very rich gravy, or cullis. When tender take it out, thicken the gravy with flour, add a little lemon juice, and serve this sauce over the veal. See Fricandeau of Veal. VEAL FRITTERS. Cut the remains of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, round pieces, dip these into a good batter, and fry them the usual way in oil. When done drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve them. VEAL, GRAVY FOR. Put into a stewpan as much lean veal as will cover the bottom to the thickness of an inch, spread over the same some slices of undressed gammon and two or three onions ; cover the pan closely, and set it over a slow fire ; but when the juices begin to exude increase the heat. When the meat is finely browned fill the pan with good beef broth, boil and skim it, let it simmer an hour, and add thereto a little water mixed with flour enough to give it a proper thickness; then boil for half au hour, and strain it for use.VE A VE A [ 527 ] VEAL, GRENADE OF. Take a noix of veai, cut it into four pieces all of tlie same size, and lai'd them ; take also a very fine fowl; season them moderately, and partly dress them ; butter the interior of a plain deep mould, in the centre of which put a large ball of farce ; place the Jour pieces of veal at the four corners, between tliem a piece of fowl, using only the white parts; fill up the intermediate spaces with crayfish, and all the interstices, and pour in some jelly to fix the different articles together. Be careful to place the back of the crayfish and the larded parts of the veal against the sides of the mould, and put some truffles into the jelly before it is poured in: set the mould in a cool place, and when the jelly is congealed dip it an instant in boiling water, and then turn it out. VEAL HAM. Cut a leg of veal in the fashion of a ham ; mix a pint of bay salt with 2 ozs. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of common salt, 1 oz. of cinnamon, and the same quantity of juniper berries powdered; rub the meat with this composition, and lay it in a tray with the skin downwards, basting it eveiy day for a fortnight, after which hang it up for the same space of time in wood smoke. It may be either boiled or parboiled and roasted. VEAL AND HAM PATTIES. Chop small 6 ozs. of the lean of veal ready dressed, and half the quantity of ham ; put them into a stewpan, with 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, the same quantity of veal stock, a little grated nutmeg and lemon- peel, some Cayenne pepper and salt, a spoonful of the essence of ham, and lemon juice ; stir the whole over the fire for some time, and then make patties the same as directed for Veal Patties. The white meat of the breasts of chickens or fowls may be substituted for the veal. VEAL AND HAM PIE. Take 2 lbs. of cutlets, divide them into small pieces, and season with pepper and salt; then take 1 lb. of raw ham, cut it into slices, lay both alternately in the dish, and put some forcemeat or sausage meat over all, with stewed mushrooms, the yolks of three hard eggs, and a glass of water. VEAL, HARICOT OF. Take a neck or breast of veal (if the neck cut the bones short), and half roast it; then put it into a stewpan with sufficient bi'own gravy to cover it, and when nearlj'^ done have ready a pint of peas boiled, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two lettuces cut into quarters and stewed in brown gravy with some forcemeat balls ready fried ; put all these to the veal, and let them just eimmer; lay the veal in a dish, pour the sauce and peas over it, and serve the lettuces and forcemeat balls all round. VEAL, HASHED (Cold). Cut the veal in slices, flour it, put it into a saucepan, witli a littio good gravy, some grated lemon-peel, jiejipcr, salt, and catsup; make it hot, and then add a little lemon juice. Serve fried sippets round the dish. VEAL, KEBOBBED. Cut some lean veal into thin bits the size of a crown piece ; season with turmeric, pepper, and salt; slice onion.i very thinly, and some garlic; and put the slices of veal and onion upon a skewer, together with thin bits of pork; fry them brown with butter, and garnish with plenty of fried parsley. VEAL KIDNEY AND PISTACHIO TART. Pick and mince a veal kidney; mix with the size of an egg of the fat, and pnt it into a creme pdtissiere; prepare 2 ozs. of pis- tachios, and mix them in a spoonful of sugar; glaze lightly, give it a brisk oven, and serve it hot. VEAL KIDNEY TOAST. Mince a roasted kidney, and also half its fat; season well with pepper and salt, chopped shallots, parsley, and a small quantity of green sweet basil; mix the whole together with the yolks of eggs, and lay it on slices of bread of an equal thickness, cut into any shape you please, and smooth it over with a knife dipped in egg; strew over the mince and bread crumbs, put them into a bdking dish on thin slices of bacon, and set them in an oven. When sufficiently baked drain off" the fat, and wipe the bread with a linen cloth. Serve with a little gravy under them. VEAL, KNUCKLE OF (Boiled). Break the knuckle-bone, that it may require less room; wash it well, and put it into a saucepan, with three onions, a blade or two of mace, and a few peppercorns ; cover it with water, and let it simmer till done. You may, if you think proper, boil a little macaroni or rice with it to give it a slight degree of thickness. Before it is served add half a pint of milk and cream, and serve either over the meat or separately. VEAL, KNUCKLE OF (Feied oe Stewed). Fry the knuckle, with onions cut into slices and butter, to a nice brown colour; and having ready some peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, that have stewed about an hour in a small quantity of water, add these to the veal, and let them stew together till the meat is tender; add pepper, salt, and a very little mint shred fine, and serve the whole together. VEAL, LEG OF (en Sdrpeise). Lard veal with slips of bacon and lemon-peel cut thin ; make a stuffing the same as for a fillet of veal, only mix it with half a pint of oysters chopped small; stuff' your veal with this, and put it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it. Let it stew very gently till quite tender; then take it up, skim off" all the fat from the liquor, and add some lemon juice, mushroom catsup, the[ 528 J VEA VEA crumb of a roll grated fine, half a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit of butter rolled in Hour. Let this sauce thicken over the fire, and serve it over the veal. Garnish the dish with oysters dipped in butter and fried, and thin slices of toasted bacon. VEAL LIVER: To Fry. Cut the liver across the grain, wash it well, pour boiling water on it, and let it stand a few minutes; then drain and season it with salt and pepper, flour it, and drop it in hot lard. When it is brown on both sides dish it; dust a little flour in the pan, and pour in some water; let it boil a minute, stirring in a seasoning of parsley, thyme, or sweet marjoram, and pour the gi'avy over the liver. This is a good breakfast dish. VEAL, LOIN OF (a LA Bechamel). Chop cut the inner bone from a nice white loin of veal, and trim it so that it will lie smoothly on the dish; chop off part of the chump end, and put it down to roast: let it be well done. Have a bechamel sauce prepared, and a few minutes before the veal is roasted enough take it up, cut a deep square hole close to where the chump was cut off, mince the lean you have cut out ex- tremely fine, put it into the hot bechamel sauce, and pour it again into the hole. Serve it to table with a well-buttered toast under the kidney, and plenty of gravy. VEAL, LOIN OF (with Eagout). Prepare the loin the same as in the preceding receipt, only take particular care it is not roasted of too high a colour. Prepare a ragout made with truffles, mushrooms, cocks' combs, livers, artichoke bot- toms well stewed, &c.; lay your veal in the centre of the dish, place the artichokes round, pour the ragout round and over the artichokes, and serve to table. VEAL, LOIN OF (Roasted). The fat of the loin must be prepared. Roast it the same as a fillet. VEAL, LOIN OF (Sauce for). Take all kinds of sweet herbs, and the yolks of three hard eggs minced fine ; boil them together with some currants, a little grated bread, beaten ciimamon, sugar, and two whole cloves; pour the sauce into the dish, and add thereto two or three slices of Seville orange. VEAL, MINCED. Cut the veal into very small pieces, but do not chop it; take a little white gravy, a little cream or milk, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and some grated lemon- peel ; let these boil till of the consistence of fine thick cream, shake flour over the veal, and sprinkle it with a little salt and white pepper; put it into a saucepan with the other ingredients, and make it quite hot.' Be careful it does not coil after the veal has been put in, or it will be hard. Before being taken up squeeze in some lemon juice, and serve it on a dish over sippets. VEAL, MINCED (with Poached Eggs). Mince part of a fillet of veal extremely fine, put it into a stewpan, and pour over it a suffi- cient quantity of good hot bechamel sauce to make it of a tolei'able thickness; then have a stewpanful of water, with a little vinegar in it. and as soon as it boils break in two eggs, and keep boiling quickly, but not so as to boil over. When they are done take them out with a cullender spoon, put them into another stewpan with clear warm water, and so on till six are done. Wiien you want to serve squeeze a little lemon juice in the mince, pour it on a hot dish, take the eggs out of the water neatly trim them lay them on some veal, and serve. VEAL, MINCED (in a Timbale). Make some mince the same as Veal, Minced, and keep it hot by the fire ; fry some well-made pancakes without sugar or lemon-peel, and then lay a pancake at the bottom and all round a well-buttered oval mould ; then lay the rest open, and spread each with the mince; roll them up neatly, lay them closely in the mould, and cover them up with a pancake. About half an hour before dinner is to be served put them into a moderate oven, and when wanted turn them out on a dish, and pour a little strong gravy in the dish under them. VEAL, NECK OF (Boiled). Chop off the chine-bone from a fine white neck of veal, sprinkle it with flour, put it in cold water, and boil it very gently, taking care to skim it well. When done serve it with parsley and butter, oyster sauce, or garnished with tongue or ham. VE.\L, NECK OF (Stewed). Season some slices of bacon with salt, pepper, shallots, and spices ; lai'd a breast of veal with these, and let it simmer until tender in three pints of stock, two onions, a bay leaf, and a little brandy. When done lay the meat in a d'mh, skim off the fat trom the liquor, and pour it over the veal. VEAL NOIX EN BALLOTIN. Season some lardons with salt, pepper, four spices, shred parsley and scallions, thyme, and bay leaf; lard with this a noix of veal, and then put it into a stewpan with ^ lb. of butter; add pepper and salt, set it on the fire for three quaj-ters of an hour without letting it take colour, and then put the veal in a dish; leave the pan on the fire that the butter may oil; add I lb. of grated bacon, the same of oil, and a dessert-spoonful of shallots chopped, and fry them a little; then put in a dozen cham- pignons chopped, a spoonful of shred parsley, seasoned with pepper and nutmeg, and when they are all done pour them over the veal. As soon as cold take six sheets of paper, oil them well, lay the slices of bacon over the meat, thenVEA [ 529 ] VEA ■wrap this in a sheet of paper with all the seasoning, fold a second over that the reverse way, then again another, and so on till all the paper is used; take care that the ends are quite secure, and that it is folded of a nice shape; then tie it up, and place it on a gridiron over a slow fire, minding the paper does not burn; do it for an hour, untie the paper, and serve it. If the outer paper should be coloured in the least degree take it off. VEAL NOIX, SAUTE. Having taken off the skin, cut a noix of veal into round pieces the thickness of a five-shilling piece, beat each piece with the back of a knife, lay them neatly in a tossing-pan, and pour over them f lb. of melted butter, with shred parsley, scallioiis, pepper, and salt; set the pan on the fire, and the moment the pieces of veal are hot on one side turn them over on the other: five minutes are sufficient to do them. Then lay them on a dish, and keep them hot; reduce rather more of veloute than usual, add to it the gravy from the pan, and a liaison of two eggs ; strain the sauce over the pieces, and serve. VEAL, NOIX OF (Small). Take from the shoulder of veal fifteen small noix ; take off the skin, trim them, run them on three skewers, and marinate them in some oil, with a sliced onion, parsley, pepper, and salt, for half an hour; then fasten them to a spit, and roast them before a large fire. Glaze and serve them with a clear aspic, or a puree of any kind vou like. VEAL OLIVE PIE. Line your pie dish with a good crust, put in the olives (see receipt for Veal Olives), fill up the dish with stock, and put it into the oven to bake. When done pour in some gravy thickened with a little cream and flour boiled together, and serve. VEAL OLIVES (1). Take some slices from a fillet of veal, and cut them round about the size of the palm of your hand, make a force- meat with the remains of roasted chickens, suet, herbs, eggs, and spices, and lay the slices alternately with a little of this forcemeat, fat livers sliced, truffles, or mushrooms ; continue these to a moderate height, the last layer being veal; then roll them in a caul, and tie or sew them up ; put them into a stewpan, with slices of ham and veal, parsley, shallots, two cloves, one of garlic, pepper, salt, a little stock, and one glass of white wine; let them stew slowly, and when done take off the caul, wipe o:f the fat, skim, and strain the sauce ; add a little cuUis, lemon juice, and chopped parsley, and serve over the olives. VEAL OLIVES (2). Cut some thin slices from the fillet (if it is large one slice will be sufficient for three olives), rub them over with yolks of eggs, strew on them some bread crumbs, VOL. II. mixed with chopped parsley, grated lemon-peel, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and on every piece- lay a thin slice of bacon, which must not be too fat; roll them up tightly, fasten them with small skewers, rub the outside with egg, roll them in bread crumbs, &c., lay them in a Dutch oven, and let them brown without burn- ing. They will take a long while doing. Some prefer frying them. Serve the following sauce over them :—Thicken a pint of good gravy with some flour, add catsup, Cayenne, and pickled mushrooms, and boil for a few minutes. Force- meat balls may be added. VEAL OLIVES A LA MODE. Take 2 lbs. of veal, beat it very finely as for force- meat, and mix with it the yolks of two eggs, two anchovies, ^Ib. of mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, half a pint of oysters, some thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, spinach, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace finely beaten: let the whole be well mixed. Have a layer of bacou and a layer of the ingredients, roll them up in a veal caul, and cither roast or bake it. When done cut it into slices, lay them in a dish, and serve a good gravy over them. VEAL PATTIES. Mince some veal that is underdone with a little parsley, lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, and a little salt; add some cream and just a sufficient quantity of gravy to moisten the meat. A little scraped ham is a great improvement. The above should not be warmed until the patties are baked. VEAL PIE (1). Cut a neck of veal into neat steaks, and season them well with white pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; pack them closely into a dish, and put in half a pint of white stock : five hard boiled yolks of eggs may be added. Put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover the same. VEAL PIE (2). Cut into steaks a loin or breast of veal; season them highly with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, mace, and a little lemon- peel mixed; lay them in the bottom of a dish, and then a few slices of sweetbread seasoned with the spices ; add some oysters, forcemeat balls, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, half a pint of white stock, a glass of white wine, and a table-spoonful of lemon pickle; put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same. Bake it for one hour. VEAL PIE, COLD. Stew in veal stock, till it be perfectly tender and like a jelly, a piece of knuckle of veal, with the gristle adhering to it; let it cool, and then cut the meat and gristle in small bits; butter a pie dish or shape, and lay at regular distances some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and some of tho whites cut into rings or strips; then put over some of the meat and gristle and strew over them some pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg mixed, 2 MVE A L 530 ] VE A a little of the gravy, and then more eggs, with Bmall bits of heet-root, green pickles, and the red part of a carrot cut to fancy: add more meat seasoning and all the gravy. When the shape is full put it into the oven for twenty minutes, and when quite cold tura it out. If rightly done it will have a glazed appearance, and the variety of colours look well by candle- light. VEAL, POTTED. Cut a small fillet into three or four pieces, and season them with pepper, salt, and a little mace ; put the veal into a pot, with ^ lb. of butter, tie a paper over it, and set it in a hot oven to bake three hours. When taken out cut off the outside ; pound the meat in a mortar with the fat of the gravy till it is the thickness of paste; then pack it closely in pots, press it down hard, and when cold pour clarified butter over it. VEAL RAGOUT. Take a breast of veal, cut it into pieces, put them in a stewpan over a fire to brown, tiicn pour as much stock as will cover them, add an onion stuck with cloves, salt, black pepper (whole), and a bundle of sweet herbs, and stew till done ; then thicken some gravy, add a little catsup, and serve over the veal. VEAL, ROLLED. Bone the thin end of a breast of veal, strew over it a good deal of parsley, pepper, and salt, to make it savoury, a little nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and some sweet herbs ; roll it tightly, sew it up, put it into a small stewpan with the bones, and just sufficient water to cover it, a bit of lemon-peel, an onion, and let it boil until tender : in cold weather it will keep good for a week. It may be served cold, but it is best cut in slices, dipped in egg. and then in bread crumbs, and fried. Thicken some of the liquor with a little flour, add pickled mushrooms, a little cream, catsup, a few morels, pepper, and salt; pour the sauce in a dish, and lay in the veal. VEAL SAUSAGES. Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, and a few anchovies; beat all in a mortar, and season well with pepper and salt. When wanted for use roll and fry it, and serve either with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables or white collops. VEAL SEMELLES. Cut part of a fillet of veal into slices an inch thick, season them with salt and pepper, and give them a few turns in a little butter with a bay leaf. Lay at the bottom of a deep dish a slice of bacon, and on it one of the slices of veal, and continue to lay them in alternately untiHhe whole are used; then add a glass of water and some bay leaves, close the saucepan tightly, first putting a sheet of paper over the meat, and stew it on hot ashes for four or five hours. Take care to keep the fire up to the same point all the time. VEAL, SHOULDER OF (en Galantine). Take a handsomely cut shoulder of veal, and bone it; cut about 1 lb. of meat from the thickest part, mince it together with an equal quantity of bacon, mix it with the yolks of four eggs, shred parsley, salt, and spices, and spread the farce about an inch thick over the whole joint; lay on it some lardons, truffles, tongue d Vecarlate, cari'ots, and an omelet, coloured green with spinach essence, all cut in lardons; cover these with another layer of farce, place more of the lardons, &c., and then a third layer of fai'ce; roll up the shoulder, carefully securing the ends, lay rashers of bacon round it, wrap it in a cloth, and tie it tightly. Line a braising-pan witli slices of bacon, put in the galantine, with two calves' feet, the bone of the shoulder, six carrots, eight or ten onions, one stuck with four cloves, four bay leaves, a little thyme, a large bunch of parsley and scallions, and a large quantity of stock; cover the pan, set it on the fire, and leave it for three hours, by which time the shoulder will be sufficiently done ; take it out, pressing it that all the gravy may run out, and then let it cool. Break two eggs into a stewpan, beat them well, strain the liquor, and pour it to them, stirring all the time that they may be thoroughly blended ; add a bay leaf, a little thyme, pai-sley, salt, pepper, and spices: set it on the fire, and when it begins to boil remove it to the side; cover the stew- pan, put hot ashes on the top, and leave it to boil slowly for an hour; then strain it gently through a fine cloth, but do not press it: when cold it will be quite a jelly. Place the galantine on a dish, trim and glaze it, and surround it with the jelly. VEAL, SHOULDER OF (Roasted). Cut off the knuckle for a stew or gravy, and stuff the shoulder with the following ingre- dients : some suet chopped fine, parsley and sweet herbs shred fine, bread crumbs, grated lemon-peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Whilst roasting flour and baste at. Veal requires to be more done than beef. VEAL STOCK. Cut a leg of veal and some lean ham into pieces, put them into a saucepan, with a quart of water, some carrots, turnips, onions, leelss, and celery; stew them till nearly done, but do not let them colour; then add a sufficient quantity of beef stock to cover the ingredients, and boil for an hour; skim off all the fat, and strain it. A little game stewed down w-ith the above will improve the flavour. Be particularly careful that it does not burn. VEAL SUET PUDDING. Slice the soft part[ 531 ] VE A VE A of a threepenny loaf: boil aiid sweeten with sugar two quarts of milk, and pour it over tlie bread. When soaked take a little of the milk, and mix it with six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Place this with the slices of bread in a dish, with some currants aud veal suet shred You may either bake the pudding in a buttered dish or boil it in a basin. VEAL SWEETBREAD A LA DUCHESSE. Scald it, lard it, and put into the middle a little farce called salpicon, made ^•ith mushrooms, truffles, or fat liver; boil it in good veal stock; reduce the sauce into a glaze, aud serve with a wine, orange, or any other sauce. It is also served with any sort of stewed greens, glazed like a fricandeau. VEAL SWEETBREADS. These are of themselves generally considered very insipid, and are therefore served with a sharp relishing sauce in whatever manner they are dressed, and commonly take their name from the sauce ■with which they are served. Particular care should be taken to braise them till tender and white. VEAL SWEETBREADS, BOUDINS OF The sweetbreads having been scalded, cut them into 23ieces as big as nuts, and mix them with pork and beef chopped small, shred tarragons aud scallions, godiveau, bread boiled in milk, and beaten with yolks of eggs: season the whole with salt, pepper, and spices. Soak some pieces of caul in warm water, soften them, spread them open on the table, and fill with the above-mentioned mixture ; roll them up in whatever shape and size you please, cook them in a Dutch oven, and serve crisp. VEAL SWEETBREADS WITH CHEESE. Fry some onions in a little butter, and then put in the sweetbreads, with half a glass of good stock. Cut some Gruyere cheese into thin slices, lay them on a dish, and pour on them a little veal gravy, previously mixed with the yolks of two eggs ; place the dish over a moderate fire that the cheese may dissolve gradually, and when the gratin is formed pour on it the sweetbreads, with the sauce; brown it with the salamander, and serve very hot. VEAL SWEETBREADS WITH CULLIS. Cut a throat sweetbread and some champignons into bits like farthings ; put two large ladlesful of Allemande and a bit of glaze into a saucepan, and when it boils put in the weetbreads and champignons, some butter, parsley, and lemon juice; give them a boil, and then put the preparation into scallop shells ; cover them with grated Parmesan cheese, and brown them in a Dutch oven. VEAL SWEETBREADS, FRIED. Cut them in lone; slices, and with a feather do them over with yolk of egg; make a seasoning of grated bread, do them over with this, and fry them in butter. Serve with butter sauce with a little catsup mixed in, or a little gravy or lemon sauce. VEAL SWEETBREADS,GLACES. Take the whitest, roundest, and most fleshy sweet- breads ; soak them well in warm water, then blanch them in boiling water, take them out, drain them, and lard them. Lay in a stewpan some rashers of bacon, some slices of veal, carrots, onions, two cloves, and two bay leaves; put in the sweetbreads, with half a spoonful of stock only; cover them with a round piece of buttered paper, and braise them for three quarters of an hour*. Take care they do not take colour. Serve with a puree of endive, or any other article of the same kind. VEAL SWEETBREADS, LARDED. Par- boil two or three sweetbreads, and when they are cold lard them down the middle with little bits of bacon, on each side bits of lemon-peel, and beyond that with a little pickled cucumber cut very small. Stew them gently in cullis or rich gravy, thicken with a little flour, add mush- room powder, Cayenne, salt, and if necessary a little lemon juice. VEAL SWEETBREADS, ROASTED. Trim off the tough part of three hard sweet- breads, blanch them for three minutes in a stewpanful of water with a little salt, then take them out, and put them in a basin of cold water till cool. Have ready an egg beaten up in a dish, some bread crumbs, and clarified butter; run a skewer through the sweetbreads, and fasten them on a spit: egg them all over, shake some bread crumbs over, sprinkle with the clarified butter, and then bread crumbs again ; put them down to roast again for a quarter of an hour, then take them off the skewer, and serve them on a dish over a little butter sauce, mixed with a spoonful of gravy, a small bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon juice; let it be hot, but not boiling, and thoroughly mixed before it is served under the sweetbreads. VEAL SWEETBREADS, STEWED. Parboil them, and stew them with white gravy; add cream, flour, nutmeg, butter, salt, and white pepper. VEAL SWEETBREADS WITH SWEET HERBS. Braise them the same as cullis sauce, or much in the same manner; take all sorts of sweet herbs finely chopped, or any one or two in particular; simmer them for some time in good cullis, and serve up the braised sweetbreads either whole or cut in pieces. VEAL A LA VILLAGEOISE. Season some large pieces of veal with pepper, salt, powdered spices, and shallots; cut likewiseVi3 G VEG [ 532 ] some thin slices of ham, dip them in egg; wrap the ham up in the veal, let them boil with a glass of white wine and the same of stock. When done skim and strain the sauce, and serve it in the dish with the veal, without adding anything else. Vegetable essences. The flavour of the various sweet and savoury herbs may be obtained by combining their essential oils with rectified spirits of wine, in the proportion of 1 drachm of the former to 2 ozs. of the latter ; or by picking the leaves, and leaving them in a warm place for two hours to dry, and then filling a large-mouthed bottle with them, and pouring on them wine, brandy, proof spirit, or vinegar, and letting them steep for fourteen days. VEGETABLE FRITTERS are made as ■with the fruit in every way—sliced, minced, or mashed: such as potatoes, beet-root, artichokes, carrot zest, scorzonera, or sorrel, must be very finely minced. They are seasoned sweet or savoury. VEGETABLE MARROW (1). The smallest are considered the best for dressing. They should be kept in hot water with a little salt, and boiled for half an hour, that they may be quite tender. Serve them on toasted bread, with plain butter in a boat. VEGETABLE MARROW (2). Cook it in the oven, or boil without breaking the skin ; cut in slices or fillets, and toss them with pep- per, salt, nutmeg, butter, marrow, or top-pot; finish with a little cream and lemon juice. Vegetable marrows make excellent soups with onions. They are in every way an excellent and elegant addition to the table, and may be dressed in tarts as frangipane. VEGETABLE MARROW (3). This vege- table is fit for use when about the size of a turkey's egg. After having been washed clean it is put on the fire in boiling water with a little salt, and when tender it is drained from the water, cut into half, and served on toasted bread, over which some melted butter has been poured. Or, after having been boiled in milk and water, they may be fricasseed as Jerusalem artichokes, or stewed like cucumbers. VEGETABLE PIE. Cut celery heads two inches long, turnips and carrots into shapes, some peeled small onions or two Spanish onions, artichoke bottoms cut into quarters, pieces of cauliflower or heads of broccoli, heads of fine asparagus, and any other vegetable you may think proper. Wash all these vegetables thoroughly clean; then boil each separately in just sufficient water to cover them, and as they get tender strain the liquor into one stewpan, and put the vegetables into another; then add to their essence half a pint of consomme, thicken it with flour, and season with salt, Cayenne, and lemon juice ; boil it for ten minutes, then strain it to the vegetables, and let them simmer together. Serve them in a raised pie crust, or in a pie dish with a raised crust baked round it. VEGETABLE SOUP. Peel and cut into slices six large onions, six carrots, and four turnips; fry them in ^Ib. of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling stock ; then add to these a crust of bread toasted as brown and as hard as possible (but be careful it is not burnt), some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt; let the whole stew gently for four hours, and then strain it through a coarse cloth ; have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little nutmeg; add to them the soup, and let them stew till quite tender. Some like an anchovy and a little catsup. VEGETABLE STEW. Pick and wash very clean as much spinach as will make a dish ; mince finely three small onions ; pick and chop two handsful of parsley ; put all into a saucepan, with rather more than half a pint of gravy, a bit of butter dusted with flour, and a little salt and pepper ; cover the pan closely, Stir it now and then, and when the spinach is tender make it smooth with slices of broiled ham, or with sausages. VEGETABLES. There is nothing in which the ditference between an elegant and an ordinary table is more seen than in the dressing of vegetables, more especially gi'eens. They may be equally as fine at first at one place as at another; but their look and taste are afterwards very different, entirely from the careless way they have been cooked. They are in greatest perfection when in greatest plenty; that is, when in full season. By season we do not mean those early days that luxury in the buyers, and avarice in the sellers, require the vegetables to be forced, but that time of the year in which, by nature and common culture, and the mere operation of the sun and climate, they are in the greatest abund- ance and perfection. As to the quality of vegetables, the middle- sized are preferred to the largest or the smallest: they are more tender, juicy, and full of flavour just before they are quite full grown. Fresh- ness is their chief value and excellence, and we should as soon think of roasting an animal alive as of boiling a vegetable after it is dead. The eye easily discovers if they have been kept too long : they soon lose their beauty in all respects. Roots, greens, salad, and the various pro- ductions of the garden, when first gathered, are plump and firm, and have a fragrant freshness no art can give them again when they have lost it by long keeping, though it will refresh themVEG VEG [ 533 J to put them into cold spring water for some time before they are dressed. To boil them in soft water will best preserve the colour of such as are green: if you have only hard water put to it a tea-spoonful of carbonate of potash. Take care to wash and cleanse them thoroughly from the dust, dirt, and insects : this requires great attention. Pick off all the outside leaves, trim them nicely, and if not quite fresh gathered, and they have become flaccid, it is absolutely necessary to restore their crispness before cook- ing them, or they will be tough and unpleasant. Lay them in a pan of clean water, with a handful of salt in it, for half an hour before you dress them. They should always be boiled in a saucepan by themselves, and have plenty of water. If meat is boiled with them in the same pot they will spoil the look and taste of each other. If you wish to have vegetables delicately clean, put on your pot, make it boil, put a little salt in it, and skim it perfectly clean before you put in the greens, &c., which should not be put in till the water boils briskly: the quicker they boil the greener they will be. When the vegetables sink they are generally done enough, if the water has been kept gently boiling. Take them up immediately, or they will lose their colour and goodness. Drain the water from them thoroughly before you send them to table. This branch of cookery requires vigilant attention. If vegetables are a minute or two too long over the fire they lose all their beauty and flavour. If not boiled thoi'oughly tender they are tremendously indigestible, and much more troublesome during their residence in the stomach than underdone meats. Once for all, take care your vegetables are fresh; for, as the fishmonger often sins for the cook, so the cook gets undeservedly blamed instead of the green- grocer. Strong-scented vegetables should be kept apai't. Leeks or celery laid among cauliflowers, &c., will quickly spoil them. Succulent vege- tables are best preserved in a cool, shady, and damp place. When vegetables are quite fresh gathered they will not require so much boiling, by at least a third of the time, as when they have been gathered the usual time of those that are brought to public markets. They are always best when newly gathered, and should be brought in from the garden early in the morning ; they will then have a fragrant fresh- ness, which they lose by keeping. They must be cleaned with the greatest care, the outside leaves of every description of greens removed, and they and all other vegetables, more parti- cularly when not recently gathered, should be laid for several hours in cold water, and well shaken to throw out the insects. A tea-spoonful of salt should always be put into the water in which the}' are to be boiled, and if it is hard a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar or potash may be added to preserve the green colour of the vege- tables. All vegetables should be boiled quickly, and, with the exception of spinach, in an open vessel, skimming them carefully. Kitchen greens should be kept in a cool and shady place. Potatoes, carrots, turnips, and beet-root should be stored up without being cleaned from the earth adhering to them, in layers of sand, or laid in heaps, and covered with earth and straw. Parsnips and skirrets, not being injured by the frost, are generally left in the ground, and taken up as wanted. Onions are stored in a warm dry place, never in a cellar; they are sometimes strung in bunches, and suspended from the roof; and more efl"ectually to prevent them from growing, some people select the finest bulbs, and singe the roots with a hot iron. Herbs of all sorts should be gathered when in flower, and on a dry day, and, being well cleaned from dust and dirt, they are tied up in small bunches, and dried before the fire in a Dutch oven. They may be kept in paper bags, labelled ; or rubbed to a powder, sifted, and put into bottles. VEGETABLES, DISH OF. Wash a dish with the white of a raw egg, then make four divisions in it with fried bread, and put alter- nately into each division the following vegetables: spinach, turnips, potatoes, sliced carrots, and small onions, or cauliflower, or heads of broccoli, all previously stewed in a little cullis. When put into the dish let as much of the essence as possible adhere to them. You may, if you please, instead of making the divisions of fried bread, make them of mashed potatoes and yolks of eggs mixed together, and put on the dish in as many divisions as you please, afterwards to be baked till of a nice colour, and served to table with any kind of stewed vegetables you may approve. VEGETABLES IN A MOULD. Line the insides of an oval moifld with rashers of bacon ; then set upright alternately slips of turnips, carrots, pickled cucumbers, celery, and asparagus heads; lay a forcemeat at the bottom of the mould, and round the inside of the vegetables; fill the centre with stewed ox-tails, with the bones taken out, or with small pieces of mutton or veal passed with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon juice; cover with forcemeat, wash it over with egg, and bake it. When it is to be served turn it gently out of the mould upon a dish, take off the bacon, make a little hole at the top, and pour in some good cullis.[ 534 ] VEI YEN VEILS. See Lace. VEINS, VARICOSE, or Knotted. For ihe following we are indebted to Dr. Macaulay's "Dictionary of Medicine." Ill different parts, especially of the lower extremities, there are sometimes seen a number of unequal knotty swellings of a deep blue colour, occasioned by portions of the veins being dilated. The cause of these swellings is the obstruction to the free passage of the blood through the veins: hence tumours in the groin may cause varicose veins of the legs, and the appearance of such veins is frequent in pregnant women, from the enlarged uterus and its contents pressing on the large trunks of the veins. Sometimes the com- plaint arises from general debility, and from a sedentary life. When the distention is great there is considerable pain; and the veins may be eroded, and cause a great discharge of blood, or troublesome and obstinate ulcers may be pro- duced. The pain and inconvenience of varicose veins are not great at first, and hence they are too often neglected till they become very difficult of cure. Treatment. The varicose veins of pregnant women go off when they are delivered, and require very little treatment except attention to posture. In other cases a moderate pressure by bandages, and diminishing the force of the circulation by small bleedings, is requisite. A laced stocking makes a good and equal pressure. It has been proposed to cut varicose veins across by introducing a bistoury behind them, and in some instances this plan has succeeded ; but the instances of failure, and of death in consequence of the operation, have been so numerous, that Sir Astley Cooper says it must be considered as wilful murder to attempt it. VELOUTE. Take 4 lbs. of the cuttings and remains of any joint of veal and fowl you may have in the house, and put into a large stewpan, with some carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, three bay leaves, three cloves, and a ladleful of stock ; put your stewpan on a fierce fire, skim it well, take care the meat does not stick, and wlien sufficiently reduced add as much stock as will fill the stewpan, and salt it well; give it a boil, skim it, and then put it on the side of the fire for two hours, after which strain it through a tammy. Make a whiter roux, stir into it for ten minutes a few champignons, and then pour on it, a little at a time, the above liquor ; let it boil up once, skim it, and set it by the side of the fire for an hour and a half; then take off the fat, strain it again, and put it by for use. Take care that the veloute is not coloured, as the whiter it is the better. The veloute travaille is done in the same man- ner as the Espagnole. VELVET. The art of removing the lint, dust, and light matters adhering to velvet, con- sists in the proper mode of managing the brusli. Take a hat-brush (not too soft, but having the bristles elastic, and returning at once to their original state after being pressed aside), hold it firmly under the palm of the hand in the direction of the arm, and with the bristles down- ward, and pressing them first gently into the substance of the velvet, then twist round the arm, hand, and brush all together, as on an axis, without moving them forward or backward. The foreign matters will thus be drawn up and flirted out of the flock without injury to the sub- stance of the velvet, and the brush must be lifted up and placed in a similar manner over every part requii'ed to be brushed. By this means velvet will be improved instead of de- teriorated, and will last for years. VENISON. Buck venison continues in season during the months of June, July, August, and September, and doe venison in Octobei', November, and December. In the choice of venison observe whether the fat be thick, bright, and clear, and the clefts are smooth and close, in which case the animal is young; but if the clefts are very wide and tough it is old. Venison begins to taint at the haunches and shoulders, to ascertain which run a knife into those parts, and on smelling it, if the scent be sweet, you may conclude the meat is fresh, but if strong the reverse. Should there be any greenish or yellowish spots upon the surface, or its general appearance be of a blackish cast, the tlesh is certainly tainted. VEiSflSON: To Collar. Bone a side of venison, take out the sinews, and cut the meat into square collars ; lard it with bacon in very small bits : season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cloves ; then roll it up and tie it with tape. Put the venison into deep pots, with seasoning at the bottom of each, fresh butter, and three or four bay leaves; lay the remainder with seasoning and butter on the top, and over that beef suet firmly beaten; cover the pots with coarse paste, and bake them four or five hours. V/hen done let them stand a little, take the venison out of the pots, and drain it; add more butter to the fat, set it over a slow fire to clarify, and then take it off and slum it; put. at the bottom of each pot a little seasoning and clarified butter, and lay the venison upon it, with butter over all, about an inch deep. When a pot is wanted for use put it into boiling water, and it will come out whole. VENISON: To Fky. If it is a neck or breast of venison bone it, but if it be a shoulder cut off the meat in slices. Make some gravy with the bones, then fry the meat till brown, take it up, and keep it hot before the fire; put butter and flour in the pan, and keep the wholeYEN VEN 535 ] stirring till thick and browii, taldng cave it does not burn ; sift in ^ lb. of finely powdered sugar, and put in the gravy produced by the bones, with some port wine; give the whole the con- sistence of cream, squeeze thereto the juice of a lemon, warm the venison in it, put it in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. VENISON : To Keep. The haunch is the finest joint; but there is a kernel in the fat like that in a leg of mutton, which must be taken out, and, after wiping the part very dry, a little ground pepper and ginger must be rubbed on the outside to keep off the flies. The neck is the second best joint, which re- quires nothing but wiping well with a clean cloth. The shoulder and breast are generally used two or three days after they are killed for a pasty. The park-keeper is generally in the habit of drawing the shoulder, which is sure to spoil the neck. The shoulder, in fact, ought not to be taken off until quite cold, and then be raised the same as that of mutton. The good effects of charcoal in preventing putrescency, and sometimes remedying where the taint has already taken place, cannot be too clearly known ; for even fish, as well as flesh, may be restored by boiling with it. With respect to poultry and game, when the weather is warm a stopper of charcoal placed in the vent will have a salutary effect, tying at the same time a string round the neck. VENISON: To Stew. Let it hang some days, then take out the bones, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton fat that have been previously soaked in port wine about it, sprinkle a little pepper and powdered allspice over it, roll it up tightly, and fasten it securely; put the meat into a stewpan that will just hold it, with some weak mutton or beef gravy, half a pint of port wine, and some more pepper and allspice ; cover it closely, and let it simmer slowly for three or four hours, stewing the bone with it. When done unbind the meat, place it in a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with sweet sauce. VENISON, BREAST OF. Either roast or fry it; put some gravy into a stewpan, with a little flour, red wine, currant jelly, and a little lemon juice; boil these together, put in the venison, let it heat without boiling, and serve. VENISON IN COLLOPS. Cut part of the haunch of venison into collops, which beat with the back of a knife, and lard them with small lardons; shred some thyme, rosemary, spinach, and other sweet herbs, and mix them with suet chopped fine, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the yolks of eggs; spread this farce over the collops, roll them up, tie them round, and roast them; place a dish under them to receive the gravy, pour claret into it, and when tho collops are nearly done put the dish on hot ashes, with grated bread, cinnamon, and a little sugar; stir them together, add a ladleful of clarified butter, put in the collops of venison, and serve very hot, with a sauce made as follows : —Take of claret, water, and vinegar, a glass each, put in them an onion stuck with cloves, two or three anchovies, a spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and of cloves also; give the whole a boil, and then strain it. VENISON CUTLETS. Cut and pare them nicely, and marinate them for twelve or fifteen hours; dry, and put them in a frying- pan with oil or clarified butter, and cook them over a brisk fire ; let them be sufficiently done, and serve with gravy, port wine, and currant jell.y. VENISON, HASHED. Warm it in its own gravy. If there is no fat left take some slices of mutton fat, set them on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, and simmer till dry; then add to it the hash. VENISON, HAUNCH OF: To Boil. Let it lie a week in salt, and then boil it in a floured cloth, allowing a quarter of an hour to eveiy pound. For sauce, boil in milk and water some cauliflowers pulled into sprigs, with white cabbage and turnips cut into dice, and beet-root sliced. First lay a sprig of cauli- flower and some of the turnips mashed witli cream and butter, next the cabbage that has been beaten in a saucepan with a little butter and salt, then cauliflower, and so on till the dish is full. Intermix the beet-root here and there to variegate the appearance. Serve with melted butter. A neck may be done in the same manner, and both will eat well the next day hashed, with gravy and sweet sauce. VENISON, HAUNCH OF: To Carve. See C.'iRviNG : Venison, Haunch of. VENISON, HAUNCH OF : To Roast. If It is a buck, and of large size, the haunch will take four hours, and a smaller one three hours and a quarter; but that of a doe will require a quarter of an hour less. All venison should be rather underdone. Take a large sheet of clean writing paper, butter it, sprinkle it with salt, and place it over the fat, then lay thereon a coarse paste, and with it cover the haunch, which must be set at some distance from the fire ; baste it frequently, and ten minutes before serving take off the paper, place the meat nearer the fire, and baste it well with butter and flour to raise a froth. The best gravy for venison is that made from the joint itself; but, if not sufficient, stew a scrag or part of a loin of mutton for the purpose till a quart is reduced to a pint; season it with salt alone, and serve with currant jelly in a sauce-boat. A neck orYEN [ 530 ] VEN shoulder of venison may be done in the same ■way. VENISON PASTY, HOT. Bone a breast of venison, beat it flat, cut it in large pieces, season it thoroughly, lay it in a stone jar, and pour over it drawn beef gravy ; lay the bones on the top, put the jar in a saucepan of water over the fire, let it simmer for three or four hours, and set it in a cold place the following day ; then put a puff paste tolerably thick round the edge of a deep dish, lay the meat in the dish, having first taken off the cake of fat from the top, and if not sufficiently seasoned add more pepper, salt, and allspice ; pour in part of the liquor, add some port wine, egg the bottom paste, and lay on a thick top paste; trim and egg it, and let it bake rather more than an hour in a moderate oven. Eeduce the remainder of the liquor with half a bottle of port wine till very strong, add a little Cayenne, and pour this into the pasty before serving. VENISON PIE, or Pasty. All kinds of meat intended for pies or pasties must be highly spiced when served hot, and still more highly when served cold ; but the seasoning must be regulated by judgment and taste. Take one or two breasts of venison, according to the size you wish to make your pie or pasty ; bone them thoroughly, beat them very flat, and lard them through and through with large lardons, well seasoned with all sorts of spices, and sweet herbs finely chopped; roll them up as tightly as possible, and tie thena with strong twine. Put into a stewpan the bones and trimmings of the venison, with carrots, onions, parsley, one clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, peppercorns, and allspice, and let all stew till nearly dry; fill it up with beef or mutton braise and water, and let it boil very gently till done; then put in the roll of venison, place paper on the top, cover very closely, and let it stew gently with fire under and over. When sufficiently done take it off the fire, and let it stand in the liquor till nearly cold; then pre- pare a plain paste of 4 lbs. of flour to I lb. of butter, the same as for a raised pie; but, instead of making it stiff, mix it as soft as possible ; lay part of this paste as thickly as you well can round the edge of the dish ; cut off' the twine from the venison, skin and lay it in the dish, and pour in some of the gravy in which it was stewed; put on the cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in the top, do it over with egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three or four hours ; reduce the remainder of the liquor the venison was stewed in, and when the pie is baked pour it in. Serve it cold. The pasty can scarcely be made too thick. VENISON PIE, PLAIN, Cut from the bone some good pieces of fresh venison, season them with a little salt and pepper, and put them into a pot, with plenty of sliced potatoes (either white or sweet), and barely as much water as will cover the whole; set it over the fire, and let it stew slowly till the meat is tender, and the potatoes also. Make a paste of shortened flour with cold gravy, or dripping saved from roast venison: the fat must be removed from the surface of the cold gravy, of which you may allow half a pint to each pound of flour. Mix half the shortening with the flour, using a broad knife or spoon for the purpose, and adding gradually sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff dough ; beat the lump of dough well on all sides with the rolling- pin, then take it out of the pan, roll it into a tliick sheet, and spread evenly over it with a knife the remainder of the dripping; flour it, fold it up, beat it with the rolhug-pin, let it rest a short time, and then roll it out again. Divide it into two sheets, grease a pie dish, and line the bottom and sides with one sheet; put in the venison and potatoes, with a portion of the gravy; lay on the other sheet of paste as a lid, and crimp the edges; set the pie in the oven, and bake it brown. Eat it either hot or cold. If you have no cold venison diipping use dripping of cold roast beef, or an equal mixture of lard and butter. A beef pie may be made as above. Mutton pies are not recommended, as mutton cooked in a pie is entirely too strong. The fat or dripping of mutton should never be used in any sort of cooking, as it tastes exactly like tallow, which it really is. Paste for meat pies should be made very thick. An ex- cellent pot pie may be made with venison and potatoes previously stewed together. Boiled paste is always best when shortened with minced suet. Beef suet is superior to any other. VENISON, POTTED. Put the venison into a pan, pour red wine over it, and cover it with 1 lb. of butter ; put a paste over the pan, set it in the oven, and let it be well baked, When done take the meat out of the gravy, beat it fine with butter that has risen to the top, and add more if necessary; season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace ; put it into pots, and set them in the oven for a few minutes ; then take them out, and when cold cover with clarified butter. VENISON PUDDING. Take nice steaks of fresh venison, season them slightlj' with salt and pepper, put them into a pot with a piece of fresh butter, and stew them in barely sufficient water to keep them from scorching. When they are quite tender take them up, cut all the meat from the bones, and set it to cool; saveVEN [ 537 ] YEN the gravy, and when cold carefully remove all the fat from the surface. Prepare a paste in the proportion of f lb. of beef suet finely minced to 2 lbs. of flour; rub the suet thoroughly into the flour, adding a small salt- spoonful of salt, and sufficient cold water to moisten it into a stiff' dough ; beat the lump of dough on all sides with a rolling-pin to increase the lightness of the paste; roll it out thickly, put the venison into it, pour on enough of the gravy to wet the meat all through, and then close over the paste so as to form a large dumpling, with the venison in the middle. Have ready a thick pudding cloth that has been dipped in boiling water, shaken out, dredged with flour, and spread open in a broad pan; place the pudding in the cloth, tie it firmly, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and, to prevent the water getting in, stop up the tying place with a bit of coarse dough. Lay an old plate at the bottom of a large pot of boiling water, put in the pudding, and keep it boiling steadily for an hour or more, turning it several times. When done dip it into cold water, untie the cloth, and turn out the pudding. Send it to table hot. A beefsteak pudding may be made as above. You may make the crust of fresh butter instead of suet, allowing 1 lb. of butter to Q lbs. or two quarts of flour. VENISON SAUCE. Serve venison with currant jelly by itself, or warmed with port wine, or port wine warmed by itself. VENISON SEMEY. Make some paste with the crumb of a brown loaf grated very fine, a pint of white wine, 2 lbs. of sugar, and the rind of an orange cut small; add a little nutmeg and salt; mix it well with the hand, and roll it out; wrap the venison completely in this paste, and bake it for an hour. Serve it with white wine boiled up with sugar and spice, and strew powder sugar over it. VENISON, SHOULDER OF(Stewed). Take out the bone and beat the venison ; have ready some slices of mutton fat that have been soaked a few hours in port wine, and lay them about the venison; sprinkle a little pepper and all- spice in fine powder over it, roll it up tightly, and tie it; put it into a stewpan that will just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy (not too strong), half a pint of port wine, some pepper, and allspice; let it simmer very closely covered, and as slowly as possible, for four hours. When quite tender take off the tape, lay the meat in a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. The shoulder should not be di'essed in this manner if very fat. VENISON STEAKS. Cut them from the neck, and season them with pepper and salt; heat the gridiron well over a bed of bright coals, and grease the bars ; lay the steaks on it, broil them well, turning them once, and save as much of the gravy as possible. Serve them with some currant jelly laid on each steak. VENISON, STEWED. Put into a stewpan a pint of good gravy, a pint of red wine, and a large spoonful of currant jelly ; cut the venison into slices, flour it, put it into the stewpan with the ingredients, and let it simmer till tender; then take up the venison, thicken the sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the meat. VENTILATION. Nothing can be more injurious and more distressing to the inhabit- ants than a close, ill-ventilated dwelling, and every means should be attempted to obviate this. Even in the country—in the midst of the bright, sweet air, so necessary to human enjoyment—houses are often sadly shut up; and the inmates are content to sit in confined apai't- ments, surrounded with curtains, and sofas, and thick heating carpets, and worsted-work of all imaginable shape and size, instead of throwing open doors and windows, admitting a free cur- rent of fresh, pure, atmospheric air, and enjoying the coolness and refreshment it produces. People in general have such a horror of draughts that they bring themselves, by de- grees, to dread the admission of air, and in- variably take cold the moment they e.xpooo themselves to it. We have much in our own power with regard to health, and we ignorantly trifle with tiiat great blessing while we fancy we are guarding it with jealous care. Many are mercifully free from organic disease, and enjoy comfortalilo health, who yet suff'er from violent winter colds and coughs, shrink from exposure to cold and wet, and pass a great part of their time in close warm rooms, with a very moderate proportion of air and exercise. Others, who live in cool airy houses, brave all weathers, and perpetually in- hale pure and wholesome breezes, are far less susceptible of atmospheric changes, seldom take cold, and, when they do, suffer com- paratively little. These precautions can always be taken. Under the most disadvantageous cir- cumstances we can always open windows and doors, and admit a free circulation, so as to counteract any close or inconvenient arrange- ment of our dwelling-houses, which frequently happens in towns. It is better to suffer from dust and " blacks " in a large town than wholly to exclude the air, so eminently essential to the health and enjoyment of man. We cannot imagine that any person can be well or happy without plenty of air, always excepting invalids, who are sometimes obliged to exclude it care- fully ; and even in such cases, with properVEN [ 533 ] caution, such as flannel next the skin and suitable wraps, we are persuaded that air—the cool, pure, balmy air—would never be injurious. Air is the verj^ life of man. How can it be dan- gerous to breathe it in its sweetness in any case ? We are apt to fancy that air will do us harm, and thei'eby preclude ourselves from what is really almost a medicine in itself. We know persons singularly exempt from colds—in fact, who never suffer from them—whose houses ai'e cold, exposed to winds from the north and east, and whose rooms and passages are full of draughts, so that chilly and sensitive people could scarcely exist in them. We do not re- commend any one thoughtlessly to plunge into the other extreme when accustomed to warmth and care; but we cannot help feeling strongly that immense benefit would be found in accus- toming ourselves to cooler rooms, cooler houses, and more fearless exposure to the air. Even in winter windows should be opened during part of the day, except in wet weather, as it is never wholesome to admit damp air; and, whenever the family leave their sitting-room, the window should be thrown open, to cool and refresh the apartment while unoccupied. Low rooms re- quire particular care in ventilation—small ones the same. In lofty and good-sized rooms there is less need to be so very careful; still, a change of atmosphere is always desirable, and never unwholesome. Ill towns, where houses are high, and con- fined in their arrangement, it is highly necessary to attend to ventilation, and to prevent all accumulations in the lower departments that would cause impure air and offensive smells, as the whole house will feel the influence of them, and the comfort, and even health, of the inmates be interrupted. People are little aware from what simple causes serious effects arise. Some of our readers will, no doubt, remember having perceived very unpleasant effluvia on the doors of town residences being opened. What can be more unwholesome to those who are perpetually breathing within those houses, particularly v/hen windows are kept closed, and there is no escape for the noxious gas? The subject of cleanliness belongs to another branch of house- hold management; but we may here observe that to want of attention on this important point much unhealthiness may be attributed, and that a strict regard to it will often be the human means of preserving a household in health and comfort. Many persons are in the habit of pasting paper over the crevices of their windows in winter, or stuffing them with tow, to exclude draughts. If the apertures are unnecessarily wide some precaution may be desirable, but this is seldom the case; and, in a general way, the total exclusion of external air becomes stifling and unwholesome. Every room should contain a fireplace, if only for the purpose of obtaining a free circulation of air. No bedroom should be without one, as a confined atmosphere during the night is ex- tremely prejudicial to health, particularly when surrounded with drawn curtains and closed window-shutters. If a grate is not required, the open space is by no means objectionable if kept clean and properly blacked, and not allowed to harbour dust and cobwebs. We have seen open chimneys of this kind in bedrooms, and therefore speak from observation. The floor of the room, within the chimney, must be bricked, so as to be pretty safe, and then a wood fire can at any time be lighted if necessary; but the chimney itself is of great consequence in a sleeping-room. If a chimney cannot possibly be contrived, some other means must absolutely be resorted to for this purpose ; and sliding panels in the upper part of the door will be of some use, and can be made without much expense. In lattice windows we have seen one pane con- structed to open like a door, which admits a current when the whole window is not I'equired to be thrown open. It might be possible to contrive this plan iu a sash-window, which would be better than making an opening in the door, because the air admitted would be fresher and more wholesome. In the cottages of the poor the upper rooms are usually dreadfully close. One little window, so small that the head can scarcely pass through it, is all they generally contain ; and iu summer the oppres- sion is intense when sickness occurs, aggra- vating the disease and the trials of the sufferer. How often we see the gasping restlessness of fever in the close sick room of the cottage, which the narrow, deep-set lattice cannot alle- viate ! And when three or four persons inhabit the same apartment, how can a landlord suppose it possible they can live and thrive? Especial care should be taken-, when building or renting houses, that they possess thorough ventilation. A continual change of the air by opening the doors, and occasionally the windows, however advisable, is yet not sufficient to preserve a salubrious atmosphere in an apartment. For this important purpose the following improve- ments may be suggested as useful:—First, small apertures in the ceiling of the room, or through the walls, close to the ceiling, in an oblique direction, so that the rain and snow cannot penetrate. Secondly, a number of small holes may be made in the uppermost part of the window-frames; into these holes place from without an equal number of funnels, presenting an aperture of nine or twelve inches diameter, and terminating in the inside almost iu a point,VE R [ 539 ] YEN or at least in an opening not exceeding the size of a small quill. By tliis simple contrivance the air in the sick rooms has been so effectually renewed, by the great and constant pressure of atmospheric air from without, that any other artificial process for correcting the putrid air in a large hospital was judged to be unnecessary. Above all things, the windows and doors of sitting and bedrooms, when it can be done conveniently, ought to be left open for a certain space of time every day. This, however, requires to be done at the proper time—neither too early in the morning, nor when it grows dark in the evening, during the vernal and autumnal months, nor at the time when the horizon is overspread with a thick fog. The windows should be openeid when tlie air is pure and serene; or, in general, when there is less danger to be apprehended from the external air than from that within. Sometimes it may be proper to make use of what is called pumping the room, or moving the door backward and forward for some minutes together; but in spring and autumn our sitting-rooms, and even in winter bedrooms ought to be ventilated every clear day by currents of fresh air for a considerable time. In the hot days of summer the windows may be opened early in the morning and in the evening, in order to cool and refresh the heated air of the room by that from without. It is, however, not safe (and has sometimes proved fatal) to leave the windows of a bedroom open at night during the summer months, as there is no small hazard of checking perspiration by the cool night air, the susceptibility of the pores being then very much increased by the heat of the day, and the warmth of the bed Rooms which we inhabit in the daytime may be safely left open during the night. VENUS'S JELLY. Boil i lb. of hartshorn shavings in thi'ee pints of water till it hangs to the spoon like a jelly; strain it hot into a sauce- pan, with half a pint of good white wine and ^ ib. of sifted sugar ; beat up the whites of two or three eggs to a froth, and put it into the jelly ; mix all well together, and pour it from one pan to another; boil it two or three minutes, put in the juice of a large lemon, and boil a little longer. If a deeper colour is wanted a little saSVon or cochineal must be added. Put it into a jelly bag; keep it close by the fire, and return it into the bag till perfectly clear ; then piut fine lemon chips into the basin, and fill the glasses or moulds from it. When the hartshorn is prepared it may be flavoured like any of the preparations for ices. VERDEE. Infuse the rinds of three lemons and four oranges in four quarts of rum or brandy for four-and-twentj hours, closely stopped; then squeeze the juice through a strainer. If the fruit is good there will be half a jjint, and if there is not so much make it that; add 1J lb. of sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and keep stirring till all the sugar is dissolved. Wlien it is dissolved stir in the peel and spirits, and then one pint of cold new milk; pass it through a bag till clear, and bottle it. It will keep good for twelve months. VERDIGRIS, a green compound liable to form on copper or brass cooking vessels, should be carefully sought for and removed. It is a salt, called b}' chemists acetate of copper, and is a virulent poison. Persons poisoned by it should swallow a large quantity of the whites of eggs. See Poisons. VERDITER is a bluish green pigment, and IS a carbonate of copper and lime. Mr. Cooley, in his excellent " Cyclopedia of Practical Receipts," says it is obtained by adding chalk, whiting, or milk of lime to the solution of copper in aquafortis, or by triturating recently precipitated and still moist carbonate or oxide of copper with hydrate of lime. A quantity of whiting or milk of lime is put into a tub, and upon this the solution of copper is poured. The mixture is to be stirred every day for some hours together till the liquor loses its colour. The liquor is then to be poured off, and more solution of copper is to be added. This is to be repeated till the whiting has acquired the proper colour ; then it is to be washed with water, spread on large pieces of chalk, and diied in the sun. The coppery solution employed in the abova process is made by neutralising the nitric solu- tion obtained from the refiners of gold and silver, bv heating it along with metallic copper. For Me finest qualities of verditer the lime should be of the purest kind, and the cupreous pre- cipitate should be carefully triturated with it after it is nearly dry, by which a fine velvety colour is produced. The cendres hleus en pates of the French differ from the above manily in a solution of muriate of copper being employed, and in the resulting green precipitate being turned blue by the action of carbonate of potash. Verditer is either dried into a powder or used as a water colour in the moist state. VERDUN SEEDS. Sift, pick, and rub free from dust these excellent seeds, and do them in the same manner as smooth almonds. Any other seeds may De done so. VERJUICE is the juice of young, unripe, and sour grapes. It is frequently used in French cookery, but very rarely put into English, dishes. VERJUICE: To Salt. Pulp the large fruit (the small may be pulped or mashed), mix ^ oz. of sugar with 1 oz. of salt, pound theia[ 540 ] V E l\ y E R well together, and use 1 oz. to every pound of fiuit. If the fruit is liquid it ought to be dried over the fire. Mix in the salt powder in the manner butter is salted, put the fruit in pots, and cover it closely. If it is dry it will keep many years. Excellent for soups, sauces, and heightening the flavour of insipid fruit and vegetables. We have seen tamarinds from the East so prepared. VERJUICE, COMPOTE OF. Choose the largest unripe grapes, split thein open, take out the seeds, and throw the berries into cold water. Boil some water in a skillet, drain the fruit, and then put it into the skillet. When it rises to the surface take it from tlie fire, cover it, and let it stand. When cold di-ain and mix the verjuice with a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar, give it two or three boils together, remove it from the fire, skim, and pour it into the compotier. VERJUICE IMARMALADE. Take the seeds from your berries, put the berries, after being stoned, into a skillet of boiling water, wliich place on hot ashes for two hours that they may be quite green : at tlie end of that time pour the whole into a pan. AVhen cold press the juice from the grapes througli a sieve into a stewpan. and put it again on the fire tliat the moisture may evapoiute; then take it out qixickly, weigh it, boil an equal quantity of sugar to casse, mix the fruit with it, simmer together a little while, and then pour it into pots. VERJUICE. PRESERVED. Split and take the seeds from '-2 lbs. of sour grapes ; put the fruit into a skillet of boiling water, set it on the fire, give it one boil, and then leave it on a very slow fire for five or six hours, covered closely : at the end of that time the fruit will be green, and must be drained. Boil 2 lbs. of sugar to petite plume, boil it up twice with the pan covered, skim it well, and pour the preserve into jars. VERJUICE PRESERVED DRY. Scald the grapes as above, boil your sugar to perle, add your fruit, boil several times, and then pour the preserve into a pan; the next day drain off the syrup, boil it to grande perle, put in the verjuice, cover the pan, give it one boil, skim it, and put it aside. On the following day drain the verjuice, put it on slates, sprinkle sugar over, and dry it in the oven or on a stove. VERJUICE, SYRUP OF. Crush as many green grapes as will yield 6 lbs. of juice; strain the juice, first through a sieve and then through a jelly bag, tijl perfectly clear; boil 3 lbs. of sugar to piuvie, and pour the juice to it: take care the fire is a large one. Boil the whole to perle, then take it off the fire, and when the syruD is half cold bottle it. VERJUICE VINEGAR. In France it is made of acid grapes; in England of crab apples. The crab apples are to be gathered when the seeds blacken: they ought to be carefully picked and put to sweat, and then ground in a mill. Put them into hair bags, press them so that all the juice may be obtained, barrel, and allow it to to ferment. When that is over it must either be bunged up carefully or put into fumigated bottles, and well corked and waxed. Small quantities for family use are easily made like walnut catsup, and it is a better acid for many things than lemon, always at hand, and more economical; therefore attention should be paid to it. It is also excellent for punch and sherbet, with a little lemon or orange zest, and parti- cularly for giving a rich acid to soups, ragouts, and insipid fruits. VERMICELLI CREAM. Boil some ver- micelli in milk till it becomes quite a marmalade, and let it cool; then mix with it a pint of cream, some macaroni drops, orange flowers, lemon-peel (all chopped very fine), with a little pounded cinnamon, and five whole eggs well beaten; sweeten with powder sugar according to taste, pour it into the dish it is to be served in, and bake it as usual. VERMICELLI IN MILK. Boil the qiian- tity of milk you may require, and put into it ^ lb. of vermicelli jjeeled, and a sufficient quantity of sugar, and stir it frequently that the vermicelli may not form a paste: half an hour will be long enough to boil it. A little almond milk may be added when ready for table. VERMICELLI PIE. Season four pigeons with pepper and salt, stuff them with crumbs of bread, parsley cut small, and mixed together with butter; then butter a deep dish, and cover the bottom with vermicelli; make a puff paste, lay it on the dish, then place the pigeons with the breasts downwards, put a thick cover- ing of paste over all, and bake the pie in an oven moderately heated. When done turn the pie into another dish : the vermicelli will be on the top, and make a pretty appearance. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Boil } lb. of vermicelli with a little pounded cinnamon in a quart of milk. In the meantime mix 11). of melted butter with a pint of cream and tlio yolks of four eggs ; pour in the vermicelli when quite soft; add a little flour and beef marrow, and powder sugar to the taste ; beat all up for half an hour, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it. VERMICELLI, QUEEN'S. Blanch about i lb. of vermicelli in boiling water, drain it, and throw it into some rich, well-seasoned stock When tender take it out of the soux),r 541 ] VIN VER and put it into a tureen; thicken the soup with eight well-beaten eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream, and pour it, when quite hot, upon the vermicelli. VERMICELLI SOUP (1). Take as much good stock as you will require for your tureen, strain and set it on the fire, and when it boils put in the vermicelli, and let it simmer for half an hour by a slow fire, that the vermicelli may not burst. The soup ought not to be veiy thick. Half a pound will be sufficient for eight or ten persons. VERMICELLI SOUP (2). Having a pre- pared soup ready boiling, drop in the vermicelli in such a manner that it may not ball, and stir it till it has taken properly; rasp some Par- mesan and Gruyere cheese, and strew it into the soup, or send it to table on a separate dish. When these cheeses are not at hand use an old Dutch one : the small ones are excellent for this purpose. All Italian pastes are put in in the same manner. It is a folly to make these pastes into a thickening, as ground rice, fine llour, or potato starch answers as well, at so much less expense. VERMICELLI SOUP WITH ONIONS. Cut the best part of some onions into very thin pieces, and fry them lightly in a little butter; then add as much stock as you require for your soup, season it with salt and pepper, put in your vermicelli, and boil for half an hour. If you desire to have merely the flavour of the onions, strain the soup through a tammy before you serve it. VERMILION. See Mercury. VERTIGO. See Giddiness. VESPETRO, Take i lb. of angelica, cori- ander, fennel, and caraway seeds, the rinds of four lemons, and as many oranges: .infuse all these in two gallons and a half of brandy, closing the vessel hermetically. In five days' time distil in the bain-marie alembic, and draw from the above quantities five quarts of liquor; dissolve 7 lbs. of sugar in clear river water, add this syrup to the liquor, filter, and bottle it. VICHY. The town of Vichy is situated in a very fertile plain, watered by the river Allier, full of vineyards and fruit trees. This plain, which is not far distant from the lofty mountains of Auvergne, abounds with springs of different kinds, hot, tepid, and cold waters being found here almost contiguous to each other. There are six sources at Vichy, which vary a little in temperature, and in the proportion of their foreign contents. They all leave in their channels a yellowish mud, which is principally oxide of ii'on, and they have a saline and bitter taste. They are consequently warm, chalybeate, and alkaline aperient waters, and are serviceable in all disorders of the stomach attended with acidity and flatulence; in bilious diarrhoea and colic, arising from derangements of the hepatic organ; and in a sluggish torpid state of the bowels, causing loss of appetite and in'egularity in the functions of the whole body. The employment of these warm waters for the purpose of bathing extends their utihty to rheumatism, sciatica, gout, and many other diseases. In these cases the internal use of the waters very properly accompanies the external, particularly in many of the disorders peculiar to the female sex, owing to a defect in the func- tions of the uterine system. The Vichy water is prepared artificially as follows :— Grains. Bicarbonate of soda . .1018 Sulphate of soda (crystals) , . 70 Chloride of sodium . . . 35 Chloride of calcium . . 95 Sulphate of magnesia. . . 15 Protosulphate of iion . . 3 The salts must be dissolved in two gallons of water, and be then changed like soda water with five volumes of carbonic acid gas. VINEGAR. This is an acid liquor ^re- pared by a second fermentation from various liquors, such as wine, cyder, perry, beer, mead, skimmed milk, &c.; but the most common method of making it in England is from malt, and the process is as follows :—Infuse a quan- tity of malt in hot water for an hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. As soon as the infu- sion is sufficiently cold put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, and leave it to ferment for four or five days, after which put the liquor into barrels in a room heated with stoves, so that a moderate warmth may be kept up for six weeks, and the fermentation continue regu- larly. By the end of that time the whole will be completely soured, and must now be changed into other barrels; lay a tile on the bung-holes to keep out the wet, but not so closely as to prevent a free circulation of air, and tlien place them in the open air for four or five months, according as the weather is warm or otherwise : during the whole of this period the fermentation proceeds, and at the end the vinegar is nearly done. The next operation is this :—The vinegar is poured into large vessels called rape tuns, to which there are false bottoms covered with rape ; that is, the refuse of raisins or other fruit from which wine has been made. Fill one of these tuns entirely with the vinegar, and another about three-fourths full, and every day take a portion of the liquor out of the fullest barrel, and put it into the other, until the vinegar is in a fit state to be drawn off, when it must be closely barreled. Vinegar may be also made in much smallerVIN [ 512 ] quantities for domestic purposes from materials of various kinds, with the addition of sugar: raisins, currants, and ripe gooseberries, how- ever, are the principal. Sometimes it is made from brown sugar and water alone. The pro- portions are the same as those necessary for strong wine. Make the barrel about three- fourths full, add a toast covered with yeast, put in the bung very loosely, and place the barrel where it will be exposed to the sim, or, if it be winter, near the fire. The fermentation should be moderate and constant till the vinegar is complete; then draw it off clear, give it a boil, and when quite cold strain and bottle it. Vinegar is obtained from wine by mixing with the latter its own flowers, or ferment, and its tartar reduced to powder, and put into a vinegar or any other cask: if the latter, it must be placed in a warm situation, full of the steam IVom vinegar; in either case the liquor should be stirred frequently. The second fermentation \vll speedily commence ; it will become heated, and turn acid by degrees, and in a short time the vinegar will be produced. It is commonly supposed that wine which has become acid will produce excellent vinegar. This, however, is a mistaken idea, for the stronger and better the quality of the wine, the stronger and better will be the vinegar. The French have several methods of making vinegar, which ai-e subjoined. The vinegar makers of Orleans pour the wine of which they intend to make their vinegar into casks, at the bottom of which are close grating, of lime twigs: these serve to clarify the wines as the lees adhering to the twigs leave the liquor perfectly clear. They then procure a number of casks, each containing a hundred gallons, either new or which have previously contained \inegar; they are set upright, and on the top of every one is bored a hole two inches in diameter: these are kept constantly open. The last-mentioned casks are called " mothers." Pour into all of them twenty-five gallons of boiling vinegar; to this, in a week's time, add three gallons of wine drawn from the first-men- tioned casks ; continue to add the wine, at in- tervals of a week, until the mothers are quite full; then leave them for a fortnight, at the end of which period they generally draw off the vinegar, taking care always to leave the mothers half full at least, and then to fill them with wine as before. The method of proving when the vinegar is fit for use is by plunging a stave into it: if, on taking it out, a white line is percep- tible on the end of it, the vinegar is quite ready. The place where the casks are kept should be very airy, and in the winter time, by means of a stove, the temperature should be raised to 18" of Reaumur. Paris vinegar varies from the above, and tlio process is very simple. A large quantity of wine lees is put into coarse sacks, and laid in tubs, which are placed one upon another to form a kind of press : by means of a screw every drop of wine is gradually squeezed from the lees. This operation cannot be performed in less time than a week. The wine thus extracted is put into casks, and holes are made in the headings, which holes are constantly left open. In summer time tbe casks so filled are placed in the sun, and generally speaking the vinegar is fit for use in a fortnight. In winter the fer- mentation will last double the time, and must be assisted by artificial warmth. It sometimes happens that the liquor heats to so great a degree that no hand can be borne on it: in this case the progress of the fermentation must be checked by adding moi'e wine until it proceeds more regularly. "When the vinegar is made put it into casks, which have the lime twigs at the bottom as above mentioned, and let it remain a fortnight, by which time it will be sufficiently fermented to draw into the casks for keeping it. Another very simple method is also prac- tised in France. A few quarts are drawn from an excellent barrel of vinegar, and mixed with an equal quantity of very clear white wiue. A barrel of good vinegar will thus afford a con- stant supplj' for a length of time without leaving the slightest deposit. A cask which has not contained vinegar before should have a quart of boiling hot vinegar poured into it, shaken till it is cold, and allov.ed to stand for some houi's. VINEGAR IN BALLS. Gather bramble berries when half ripe, dry them, and then beat them to a powder; make it up into balls with strong white vinegar about the size of nuts, dry them thoroughly, and keep them in boxes. When wanted take some wine or a little stale beer, dissolve a ball in it, and then make use of it. VINEGAR, CAMP. See Camp Vinegaji. VINEGAR, COMMON. Vinegar, as pre- pared in this country from malt, should be of a pale brown colour, perfectly transparent, of a pleasant, somewhat pungent, acid taste, and a fragrant smell, without any acrimony. From the impurities, however, wliich malt vinegar always contains, it is apt, particularly when exposed to the air, to become I'opy and vajiid. This inconvenience may be obviated by keeping it in bottles completely filled and well corked, and it would be still more advantageous if the bottles, previously to being stopped, were put in a vessel of water over the fire, and suffered to re- main there till the vinegar is brought to a boiling state. Vinegar is too generally adulterated with sulphuric acid to heighten its pungency. The[ 5iS 1 VIN VIP presence of this acid may be discovered by pour- ing into it the solution of the acetate of barytes, when a white precipitate will be formed, which is insoluble in nitric acid after being made hot. Other means of adulteration are also practised by the addition of acrid vegetable substances, which are not so easy of detection ; but one thing is certain, that factitious vinegar has no turbidity in it. Distilled vinegar would be best if the stills were made of glass, instead of having a pewter pipe. The surest detector of lead in vinegar is water impregnated with sul- phuretted hydrogen gas, which imparts to the liquor so adulterated a brown or blackish tinge. VINEGAR, PRTNTANIER. Take tarragon, savory, civet, shallot, and garlic, of each 3 ozs., with a handful of mint and balm tops; dry them all well, and put thera into a jar, with two gallons of the best vinegar; cover the jar, arid place it where it will be well exposed to the sun for a fortnight; then draw it off, press the dregs well, filter, and bottle it. Cork the bottles tightly. VINEGAR FOR SALADS. Take tar- ragon, savory, chives, eschalots, of each 3 ozs., with a handful of the tops of mint and balm, all dry and pounded; put thein into a wide-mouthed bottle, with a gallon of the best vinegar; cork it closely, set it in the sun, and in a fortnight strain off and squeeze the herbs ; let it stand a day to settle, and then strain it through a filtering bag. VIOLET DROPS (]). Take a certain quantity of syrup of violets, which mix with an equal portion of water; use this mixture, and make your drops precisely as directed for Deops, Acid. You may, if you please, perfume it with oil of violets ; but that is not necessary, as the Bvrup imparts sufBcient colour. ' VIOLET DROPS (2). Take the juice of six lemons, mix it with some finely sifted powder sugar, and two spoonsful of essence of violets, and colour it of a fine blue ; mix the whole well togethei', dry it over the fire the pame as all other Drops, and drop them off a ];nife on paper the usual size of drops : let them stand till cold. Be careful your mixture is not too thin. When the drops are cold put them into prepared boxes. VIOLET MARMALADE. Take 3 lbs. of violets and 4 lbs. of sugar ; put the former into a mortar, and bruise them to a pulp. In the meantime boil the sugar to soiiffle, then add the flowers, stir them together, add 2 lbs. of apple marmalade, and when it has boiled up a few times put the marmalade into pots. VIOLETS : To Rock Candy. Pick the leaves off the violets, then boil some of the finest sugar to souffle, pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in the form of a dripping-pan, about three inches deep ; then strew the violet leaves as thickly as possible on the top, and put it into a hot stove, in which let it j'emain for ten days. When it is candied hard break a hole in one corner of it, and drain off all the syrup ; break it out, and place it in heaps upon a tin to dry in a stove. VIOLETS, CANDIED. Pick of? the green stalks from some double violets ; boil some sugar to souffle, put in the violets, and keep them in till the sugar again boils to souffle; then rub the sugar against the sides of the pan until it is white; stir together till the sugar leaves the violets, and then stiffen and dry them. VIOLETS, CONSERVE OF. Take \ lb. of early violets picked, and bruise them in a mortar; boil 2 lbs. of sugar to casse, take it off, put in the pulp, mix together over the fire, and when the sugar bubbles up pour the conserve into moulds. VIOLETS, SYRUP OF (L) Take of sweet violet flowers fully in bloom 4 ozs., and soak them in 16 ozs. of boiling water for twenty-four hours in a cov^d glass or earthenware vessel. Strain the liquor from the flowers, and dissolve in it 30 ozs. of fine loaf sugar. VIOLETS, SYRUP OF (2). Pound very lightly in a marble mortar, and with a wooden pestle, 1 lb. of picked violets ; warm gradually a glass or earthenware vessel with a small open- ing, in which put the pounded flowers, and pour over them 2 lbs. of boiling water; close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot ashes, renewing them when necessary, to keep up an equal temperature for twelve hours; after that time pass the whole through a coarse cloth, squeezing it well; let it stand for half an hour; then pour it off very carefully that all the sedi- ment may remain at the bottom, weigh it, and the above quantities will have yielded 17 ozs. Put into a matrass 2 lbs. of crushed sugar, with the infusion ; close the matrass tightly, and set it in a bain-marie over a moderate fire; shake it oc- casionally to accelerate the dissolution of the sugar, and when perfectly dissolved let the fire go out and the matrass cool graduall}'. Wheu cold pour the syrup into bottles. VIPER. See Adder, Bite of the. VIPER BROTH. Vipers cannot always be procured in England, though there is an abun- dance of them in particular parts. In Italy, and where their surprising restorative virtues are known, they are in great request. Viper and frog broths are the on\j nourishments given after extreme unction has been administered, and they not unfrequently restore the despaii ed- of patient. Viper essence is the basis and source of the celebrity of the celebrated and official Venetian trial: to it above a hundred in-VIT VIR [ 544 ] gt'edients are added, as, of course, there is some- tliing good in it for every ailment. During the solemn operation the great bell of St. Mark is tolling, and the magistrates encircle the caldron iu their robes of state. VIRGINIA GRIDDLE CAKES. A quart of Indian meal, two large table-spoonsful of wheat flour, a heaped salt-spoonful of salt, a piece of fresh butter (about 2 ozs.), four eggs, and a . pint or more of milk Sift the Indian meal into a pan, mix with it the wheat flour, and add the salt. Warm the milk in a small saucepan, but do not let it come to a boil. When it begins to simmer take it off, and put the butter into it, stirring it al)out till well mixed ; then stir in the meal a little at a time, and let it cool uhile you are beating your eggs. As soon as they are beaten very light add them gradually to the mixture, stirring the whole very hard. It must be a light batter, and may require more milk. Having heated the griddle well by placing it over the fire or in the oven of a hot stove, rub it over with some fresh butter tied in a clean white rag, and pour on a la)'ge ladleful of batter. When the cake 4iR baked brown turn it with a cake turner, and bake it the other side; then take it off, and put it on a hot plate; grease the griddle again, and put on another cake, and so on till you have three or four ready to send to table for a beginning. Continue to bake and send in hot cakes as long as they are wanted. VIRGIIS'IA HOE CAKE. Pour warm water on a quart of Indian meal; stir in a spoonful of lai'd or butter, and some salt; make it stiff, and work it for ten minutes ; have a board the size of a barrel head (or the middle piece of the iiead will answer), wet the board with water, spread on the dough with your hand, and pi'op it aslant before the fire with a flat iron, and bake it slowly. When one side is nicely brown take it up and turn it, by running a thread between the cake and the board; then put it back, and let the other side brown. These cakes used to be baked in Virginia on a large iron hoe, whence they derive their name. VIRGINIA PONE. See Pone, Virginia. VIRGINIA YELLOW^ PICKLES. To two gallons of vinegar put I lb. of ginger, J lb. of black pepper, 2 ozs. of red pepper, 2 ozs. of cloves, a tea-cupful of celerj'^ seed, a pint of horseradish seed, a pint of mustard seed, a few onions or garlic, and 3 ozs. of turmeric to turn them yellow. The above ingredients should be mixed together in a jar, set in the sun by the 1st of July, and tied tip closely, with a block over each jar to keep out the rain. Put what- ever you intend to pickle in salt and water for tivo or three days; then pour boiling salt and water upon them, wash them, and drop them in the jars of vinegar. You can pickle anything in this way but walnuts. The same pickle, by adding more vinegar to it, will do for two years. If the jars are set by the fire a much less time will do to take the strength out of the spices. VITRIOL. We shall here merely warn our readers against being misled by tliis nauie, so commonly applied to very different substances. Vitriol is usually the name given by servants to sulphuric acid, one of the most corrosive of acids. It is known also as oil of viiriol and vitriolic acid. Green vitriol is a combination of iron with sulphuric acid, and used in ink-making, dyeing, &c. Blue vitriol is copper combine 1 with sulphuric acid, and is a virulent poison. White vitriol is zinc combined with sulphuric acid, and, though a poison, often used as iui emetic. VITUS'S (SAINT), DANCE. The leg and arm, generally of one side, are in constant agitation. In the attempt to walk the leg is dragged along, or turned inward or backward; and if the person afflicted tries to carry anything to his mouth he cannot accomplish it until after repeated efforts. It is at last thrown iu with a jerk. The muscles obey the will ; but when motion is attempted the fibres of others begin to act, and thus a contrary effect is pro- duced. Weeping and laughter are sometimes alternately excited. Various attempts at running and leaping also take place. The head, too, and trunk of the body, are affected with convulsive motion. The mind is more or less weakened, and there is also an impediment of speech. It generally happens from the age of ten to fourteen. The causes are such as unsuitable diet, impure air, sedentary life, and sudden frights. They are also irritating matter influencing the intestines, poisons, teething, and worms. In spite of every effort this disease is some- times of a protracted nature, continuing for several months. Oftener it sooner yields to proper remedies. Unless it passes into some other disease—such, for instance, as epilepsy—• it is seldom attended with danger. Recourse must be had to suitable articles of nutritious diet, and to the enlivening influence of the other ordinary acting objects. Corroborants, volatiles, and chalybeates will each occasionally be required. Cold bathing also produces a good effect. Bark in large doses, by increasing the tone of the nervous and muscular system, with the assist- ance of cold bathing, has often effected a cure. The metallic tonics recommended in Epilepsy are more likely to prove beneficial than the vegetable ones, among which the bark may be enumerated. During the use of these medicinesvol [ 545 ] attention must be paid to the state of the bowels, removing costiveness by means of some gentle Juxative. Electricity has been used with good effect when other remedies have failed. Dr. Hamilton recommends pui'gatives, with which, he observes, he has treated this disease when the usual means have failed; and the oil of tur- pentine in large doses has been advantageously used, in all probability, upon this principle. In females it is generally cured by the approach of menstruation. Dry cupping and dry vomiting have also been recommended; and, for the pur- pose of restoring the general health and strengen- ing the solids, the following pills, e.g.:—Take socotrine aloes, 1 drachm ; filings of iron, 9 scruples ; precipitated sulphuret of antimony, 1 scruple; syrup, enough to form the whole into a mass, of which make twenty-fourpills, two of which are to be taken every night or oftener. A tea- spoonful of the tincture of asafoetida should be taken night and morning. "VOICE. The first rule for the preservation of the voice, and which is equally supported by ancient authorities and modern experience, is, that the public speaker should, if he " strive for the mastery," be habitually temperate in all things; moderate in the use of wine, and in the indulgence of the table; and not given to any personal excess. A bloated body and an enfeebled constitution are not only injurious to the voice, but render a man equally incapable of any other mental or bodily exertion. The voice should not be exerted after a full meal. This rule is a consequence of the first. The voice should not be urged beyond its strength, nor be strained to its utmost pitch without intermission : such mismanagement would endanger its power altogether, and it might break. Frequent change of pitch is the best preservative. The same rule holds in music. Well-composed songs and skilful singers may sometimes, for brilliancy or effect, and to show the compass of the voice, run up and touch the highest notes, or descend to the lowest; but they should by no means, in their modulations, dwell long on the extremes. High passion disregards this wholesome rule, but the orator will not be rash in its violation ; nor should the composer of what is to be spoken or sung be remiss in his attentions. At that period of youth when the voice begins to break, and to assume the manly tone, no violent exertions should be made ; but the voice should be spared until it becomes con- firmed and established. Neither, according to this rule, should the voice, when hoarse, if it may be avoided, be exerted at any time. If a boy would give himself the chance of having a contralto, establishing his constitution, and making his fortune, let him begin to think VOL. II. and take heed from fourteen, for a cold will break the voice before the time of nature. Omission of singing often, but not too long at a time, will sink it, and vicious gratifications may ruin it and the constitution before the age of manhood. The singer may with more safety indulge at thirtj', when the constitution of man is fixed, or even at forty, than at eighteen, when nature is in a state of growth and im- maturity, though, indeed, many young pro- ficients in music have made a shameful and speedy end who have promised fair in the beginning, and might have proceeded happily ; but, setting off with over-much sail, and too strong a tide, suffered shipwreck in the channel before they could well get out to sea. Some things are found serviceable to the voice, and are used by modern singers. They may be equally advantageous to a public speaker. Warm mucilaginous and diluting drinks, in case of dryness of the fauces or slight hoarseness, barley water and tea, pre- parations of sugar, sugar candy, barley sugar, and the various sorts of lozenges, which modern ingenuity prepares so elegantly. A raw egg beaten up is reckoned the best substance for immediately clearing the voice, and is preferred by the Italian singers. Garlic is much used, notwithstanding its offensive odour. The great means of improving the voice, as of all other improvement, is constant and daily practice. The professional exercise at the bar, the senate, and the stage, if properly attended to with a view to improvement, may suffice for the orator of our times; but the ancients, besides this, were in the daily practice of preparatory declamation. Their rule was, after proper bodily exercise, to begin at the lowest tones of their voices, and go gradually to the highest. This was called anapJionesis, and sometimes the paan and the munio—the former the exercise of the voice in the highest pitch, the latter in the lowest. They used to pronounce about five hundred lines in this manner, which were committed to memory, in order that the exertions of the voice might be the less embarrassed. It is a great and general mistake among the players at rehearsal, as the common practice is, to mutter over their parts inwardly, and keep in their voices with a mis-imagined purpose of preserving them against their evening acting; whereas the surest natural means of strengthen- ing their delivery would be to warm, dephlegm, and clarify the thorax and windpipe by exerting (the more frequently the better) their fullest power of uttei'ance, thej'eby to open and re- move all hesitation, roughness, or obstruction, and to tune their voices, by the effect of such continual exercise, into habitual mellowness, and ease of compass and inflection, just from the 8 NVOL [ t516 ] VOL same reason that an active body is more strong and healthy than a sedentary one. The second rule has been anticipated, which is bodily exercise. The ancients recommend walking a certain distance before breakfast— about a mile. Riding on horseback we do not find recommended or practised as mere exercise. In order to strengthen the voice Mr. Sheridan advises that any person who has fallen into a week utterance should daily practise to read and repeat in a large room in the hearing of a jriend. His friend should be placed at first at such a distance as he may be able to reach in his usual manner; the distance is then gradually to be increased, till he shall be so far from him that he cannot be heard beyond hini without straining. There should his friend hear the most part of his declamations ; and through this practice should he proceed, step by steyi, daily, by which he may be enabled to unfold Lis organs, and regularly increase the quantity and strength of his voice. Perhaps the same practice might more easily and effectually be made in the open air, as every speaker cannot conveniently obtain the use of a room of the requisite dimensions. Mr. Walker's rules for strengthening the voice are excellent and practicable, his general jjrinciple is that, in order to strengthen the higher tones of the voice, such passages should be practised as require the high tones. These are particularly a succession of questions ending with the rising inflection. For the middle tones passionate speeches requiring them should be pi'actised; and for bringing down the voice, which is apt to run wild, and not to be in our power when long continued above, the succeeding sentence is to be begun, if the subject will admit, and delivered in a lower tone. VOL-AU-VENT (1). Take | lb. of puff paste, give it six turns, roll it out to a tolerable thickness, and take care that it is equally thick all over; lay a very thin paste on a baking tin, put the puff paste on it, cut it to the size and shape of the dish it is to be served in, make a mark all round the top at an inch and a half from the edge, dorez and decorate the sides and top according to taste, and bake it in a mode- rate oven. When done take out the inside as marked, replace it in the oven to dry a little, and fill your vol-au-vent with sucli ragouts or fruits as may be directed. VOL-AU-VENT (2). Cut some cold turkey or veal into small thin slices, season with dried lemon-peel grated, pepper, pounded mace, salt, one anchovy, some garlic and onion pounded, with a little good gravy and lemon pickle, some white wine, and 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour; then make it quite hot, but do not allow it to boil, and serve it in the prepai'ed vol-au-vent. The gravy may be made with the bones and a little cream, or the beaten yolk of an egg may be substituted for the cream. VOL-AU-VENT (3). Separate the oysters from the liquor, which must be strained; take off the beards, and add to them the liquor, together with some white stock, a bit of butter rolled in flour, two or three blades of mace, a bit of lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; simmer them for fifteen or twenty minutes, and a little before putting them into the vol-au-vent pick out the lemon-peel; add a table-spoonful of white wine and three of good cream, and make it quite hot. To make oyster patties, when they are to be beai-ded, cut them into three or four bits, and prepare them in the same manner. VOL-AU-VENT (4). Roll some tart paste till about the eighth of an inch thick; then with a tin cutter, made for that purpose (about the size of the bottom of the dish you intend to send to table), cut out the shape, lay it on a baking plate with paper, and rub it over with yolk of egg; roll out good puff paste about an inch thick, stamp it with the same cutter, and lay it on the tart paste ; then take a cutter two sizes smaller, and press it in the centre nearly through the yiuff paste; rub the top with yolk of egg, and bake it in a quick oven for about twenty minutes of a light brown colour. When done take out the paste inside the centre mark, preserving the top, put it in a dish in a warm place, and when wanted fill it with a white fricassee of chicken, rabbit, ragout of sweet- bread, or any other entree you wish. VOL-AU-VENT, PUFF PASTE FOR. This paste, more than any other, requires all the attention that can be possibly given to it. Take 1 lb. of well-dried flour, lay aside a little for working it, weigh and wash 1 lb. of butter, put a small bit of it into the flour, melt the salt in cold water, and make it up into a very smooth paste of a fine workable consistence ; let it remain till the batter (if it has not been prepared the evening before), is washed and prepared, which should be brought to the consistence of the paste; and should it be rather soft, put it into a dish, and set it on a cold stone floor or into cold water. Dust the table with flour, and spread out the paste as square as possible ; form the butter in a cloth into a square, lay it in the middle, and let the sides be folded up to cover it completely ; dust it with flour, and roll it gently out, that the butter may not break through the paste (which it will be apt to do if it is harder), the length of the table ; fold it up in them, dust the table and paste again with flour, and roll it out; dust with flour, roll it again in three, and roll itVOM [ ] VOM out. This is called two turns. Dust it %\ith flour, let it repose fifteen or twenty minutes, and give it two turns more; let it again rejoose, and according to the use it is to he made of, and the quantity of hutter used, give it a turn more, which will he six or six and a half. Half a turn is folding tlie paste in two instead of three. When it is folded for the last rolling, whether it has had five, six, or six and a half, it must he rolled out only the thickness required for the pastry, which will be easily ascertained by tossing a bit in the oven, which is also neces- sary to ascertain the state of the oven. If it has not been carefully and equally folded it will fall over to one side. Attention ought to be paid to cut it economically, as it cannot be rolled again like other pastes without spoiling it. The cuttings are used for stringing tarts and other small matters. Lay on the cuttings to make the most of the paste, by which a small dish of pastry may he saved without any addi- tional trouble ; with a knife mark the top, and hake on oven leaves to give a fine colour. This paste requires a quick oven, which must not be opened till it is well risen, or the paste will fall. When baked cut out the top, and scrape out the soft paste. Fill the vol-au-veut, for first course, with ragouts of meat or fish. The French call these dislies entrees in the first coui'se : with vegetables, sweetmeats, creams, or souffles—these dishes they call entremets. It may be likewise served on top of small second courses, as patties, with farces, fricassees, oysters, or mushrooms, or any nice ragout of fowl, game, fat livers, &c. Bottoms of jiate a dresser may be made with a very thick puff border for serving hot or cold, and will keep a week, which is a convenience, and may be warmed up in a few minutes. VOMITIMG may proceed from various causes, as excess in eating and drinking, foulness of the stomach, the acrimony of the aliments, a translation of the morbific matter of ulcers, of the gout, the eiysipelas, or other diseases, to the stomach. It may likewise proceed from a looseness having -been too suddenly stopped; from the stoppage of any customary evacuations, as the bleeding piles, the menses, &c.; from a weakness of the stomach, the colic, the iliac passion, a rupture, a fit of the gravel, worms, or from any kind of poison taken into the stomach. It is an usual symptom of injuries done to the brain, as contusions, compressions, &c. It is likewise a symptom of wounds or inflammations of the diaphragm, intestines, spleen, liver, kid- neys, &c. Vomiting may be occasioned by unusual motions, as falling, being drawn back in a car- riage, &c. It may likewise be excited by violent passions, or by the idea of nauseous or dis- agreeable objects, especially of such things as have formerly produced vomiting. • Sometimes it proceeds ftom a regurgitation of the bile into the stomach. In this case what the patient vomits is generally of a yellow or greenish colour, and has a bitter taste. Persons who are subject to nervous affections are often suddenly seized with violent fits of vomiting. Lastly, vomiting is a common symptom of pregnancy. In this case it generally comes on about two weeks after the stoppage of the menses, and continues during the first three or four months. When vomiting proceeds from a foul stomach or indigestion it is not to be considered as a dis- ease, but as the cure of a disease. It ought, therefore, to be promoted by drinking lukewarm water or thin gruel. If this does not put a stop to the vomiting, a dose of ipecacuanha may be taken, and worked off with weak camomile tea. When the retrocession of the gout or the obstruction of customary evacuations occasions vomiting, all means must be used to restora these discharges; or, if th.at cannot be effected, their place must be supplied by others, as bleed- ing, purging, bathing the extremities in warm water, opening issues, setons, perpetual blisters, &c. When vomiting is the effect of pregnancy it may generally be mitigated by bleeding, and keeping the body gently open The bleeding, however, ought to be in small quantities at a time, and the purgatives should be of the mildest kind, as figs, stewed prunes, manna, or senna. Pregnant women are most apt to vomit in the morning immediately after getting out of bed, which is owing partly to the change of posture, but more to the emptiness of the stomach. It may generally be prevented by taliing a dish of coffee, tea, or some light breakfast in bed. Pregnant women who are afflicted with vomit- ing ought to be kept easy both in body and mind. The should neither allow tlieir stomachs to be quite empty, nor should they eat much at once. Cold water is a very proper drink in this case. If the stomach be weak a little bi'andy may be added to it. If the spirits be low, and the person apt to faint, a spoonful of cinnamon water, with a little marmalade of quinces or oranges, may be taken. If vomiting proceeds from weakness of the stomach bitters will be of service. Peruvian bark infused in wine or brandy, with as much rhubarb as will keep the body gently open, is an excellent medicine in this case. Sulphuric acid is also a good medicine. It may be taken in the dose of 15 or 20 drops, twice or thrice a day, in a glass of wine or water. Habitual vomitings are sometimes alleviated by making oysters a principal part of diet.[ 518 ] VOM WAF A vomiting wnich proceeds from acidities in the stomach is relieved by alkaline purges. The best medicine of this kind is the magnesia alba, a tea-spoonful of which may be taken in a dish of tea or a little milk three or four times a day, or oftener if necessary, to keep the body open, or any of the cretaceous mixtures recom- mended in Diarrhoea. When vomiting proceeds from violent passions or affections of the mind all evacuants must be carefully avoided, especially vomits. These are exceedingly dangerous. The patient in this case ought to be kept perfectly easy and quiet, to have the mind soothed, and to take some gentle cordial, as negus, or a little brandy and water, to which a few drops of laudanum may occasionally be added. When vomiting proceeds from spasmodic affections of the stomach, musk, castor, and other antispasmodic medicines are of use. Warm and aromatic plasters have likewise a good effect. Aromatic medicines may also be taken inwardly, as cinnamon or mint tea, wine with spiceries boiled in it, &c. The region of the stomach may be rubbed with ether, or, if that cannot be had, with strong brandy or other spirits. The belly should be fomented Avith warm water, or the patient immersed up to the breast in a warm bath. Saline draughts, taken in the act of effer- vescence, are of singular use in stopping a vomiting from whatever cause it proceeded. These may be prepared by dissolving 1 drachm of the subcarbonate of potash in oz of fresh lemon juice, and adding to it 1 oz- of pepper- mint water, the same quantity of simple cinna- mon water, and a little white sugar. This draught must be swallowed before the effer- vescence is quite over, and may be repeated every two hours, or oftener if the vomiting be violent. A violent vomiting has sometimes been stopped by cupping on the region of the stomach after all other means had failed. As the least motion will often bring on the vomiting again, even after it has been stopped, the patient must avoid all manner of action. The diet must be so regulated as to sit easy upon the stomach, and nothing should be taken that is hard of digestion. We do not, however, mean that the patient should live entirely upon slops. Solid food in this case often sits easier on the stomach than liquids. VOMITS. Bee Emetics. WAFERS. We are indebted to Mr. Cooley's " Cyclopaedia of Practical Receipts" for the following directions:— Flodr Wafers. Mix fine wheat flour wiLli water to a smooth pap, add colouring as re- quired, pass the mixture through a sieve to remove any clots or lumps, fill the " wafer- irons " (previously warmed, and greased with butter or olive oil) with the batter, close them tightly, and expose them for a short time to the heat of a clear charcoal fire. The whole must then be allowed to cool, when the irons must be opened, and the thin cake, which is now hard and brittle, must be cut into wafers by means of sharp annular steel punches. The " wafer- irons" consist of two plates of iron, united together in a similar manner to a pair of pincers or tongs, and which, when closed, leave a space between their internal surface proper for the thickness of wafers. Gelatine, Glue, or Transparent. Dissolve isinglass or the best pale glue in sufficient water to form a consistent mass when cold, pour it while hot upon the surface of a warm plate of mirror glass slightly oiled, and surrounded with a border of card paper (laid flat); next apply a similar plate, also warmed and oiled, and press the two into as close contact as is permitted by the card paper. When cold the thin cake of gelatine must be removed, and cut into wafers with punches as before. Medallion. Colour Salisbury glue ; fill up the hollow part of a seal with gum water mixed with any coloured powder, leaving the flat part clear; then pour as much of the melted coloured glue on the seal as will lie upon it, and let it dry in a gentle heat. When used, wet the paper where the wafer is to be applied, and place the back of the wafer upon the wet paper. The colouring matters employed for wafers are the following:—Hed, a decoction of Brazil wood brightened with alum ; yellow, a decoction of French berries, or an infusion of saffron or turmeric ; blue, sulphate of indigo diluted with water, and partly saturated with potash; green, blue and yellow mixed. Vermilion, gamboge, smalts, &c., are also used for the best wafers. WAFERS, GERMAN. Take 17 ozs. of sifted flour and half a pint of ^good yeast, which make into a paste with as much warm milk as will make it run from the spoon freely without being too clear; then put it into a warm place. When it has risen well add to it the yolks of fourteen eggs well beaten, the whites whipped to a snow, and the grated rinds of two lemons. The whole being well mixed, pour over it 17 ozs. of fresh butter melted, but not too hot; stir it gently with a wooden spoon, and put the preparation again into a warm place to rise a second time. When it has risen suffi- ciently, and your pan is quite hot, rub the batter with butter, fill it with the paste, set it over a brisk fire, and fry your wafers: make[ 549 ] WAL WAF both sides equally brown. When done sprinkle them with powder sugar (and cinnamon if you like), and serve them up. Be careful, in taking out the paste to fill the pan, not to disturb or plunge the spoon into the prepai-ation: the upper part of the paste should be taken off very gently, and the spoon laid across the top of the vessel. If these precautions be not attended to, the good appearance of the wafers will be destroyed. WAFERS, ITALIAN. Take eight eggs, 14ozs. of powder sugar, I lb. of flour, 6 ozs. of cream, the same of milk, 1 oz. of orange flowers, and the rind of a lemon grated. Beat the eggs with the sugar and flour first; then add the cream, milk, and other materials by degrees ; mix them well, and take care there are not the slightest lumps. Make the wafers as already directed. WAFERS, WINE. Make a paste of a proper thickness of wine, flour, sugar, and eggs, and finish as above. When they are coloured a delicate pink, and the cream kept as white as possible by making them of white of egg and lemon juice, they make a beautiful dish mixed, They are also excellent filled with whipped cream the moment of serving, as meringues. They may likewise be meringued and varied with different essences, or pearled with sugar. WAGES. (See Domestic Servants, Female Servants, Butler, &c.) We will here add from Mrs. Parkes' " Domestic Duties " ^ table of the wages usually paid to male servants. Description of servant. Out of livery. In livery. Highest woges. Lowest wages. Highest wages. Lowest wages. £ s. £ s. £ s. £ s. House steward . 73 10 50 0 0 0 0 0 Valet de chambre 47 5 31 10 31 10 21 0 Butler .... 50 0 43 0 9 0 0 0 Under butler. . 31 10 26 5 20 5 21 0 Cook .... 31 10 26 5 0 0 0 0 House porter. . 0 0 0 0 21 0 18 18 Footman . . . 42 0 31 10 26 5 18 18 Under Footman. 0 0 0 0 21 0 16 16 Footboy . . . 0 0 0 0 14 14 8 8 ♦Coachman. . . 0 0 0 0 31 10 21 0 ♦Groom .... 36 16 26 5 21 0 16 16 ♦Postilion . . . 0 0 0 0 21 0 16 16 ♦Stable boy. . . 0 0 0 0 13 12 8 8 ♦Gardener . . . 0 0 0 0 42 0 15 15 Besides annual wages, those servants mar] ;ed with an asterisk are allowed ooai d wages at the rate of from 10s. to 14s. per week when they live out of the house. WAKEFULNESS ought not to be pro- longed beyond a proper time, as it exhausts the vital spirits, disorders the nerves, and unhinges the whole system: hence acute headaches, vertigoes, &c., are the inevitable consequences, because the whole mass of the fluids becomes vitiated, and the animal frame is at length subject to an uncommon degree of irritability and excitement on the slightest occasions. In the present artificial state of society many persons of active minds and great suscepti- bility complain of watchfulness, which shortens their days, renders their life unhappy, and is sometimes succeeded by insanity. As the source of this malady may, in general, be at- tributed to an unbounded desire of acquiring wealth, power, or fame, we shall briefly remark that moral arguments will mostly prove un- availing where the primary education has been defective. Instead, therefore, of resorting to opium, spirits, or other stupefying liquors, we advise such unfortunate victims of a disordered imagination to adopt a more frugal mode of life, to take sufficient bodily exercise, not to indulge in nocturnal speculations, and, if these means be ineff"ectual, to resort either to the tepid bath, or to employ general friction over the whole body for at least half an hour previously to their repose. Putting the feet into very hot water at bedtime will often induce sleep. WALKING. See Exercise. WALLS. See Damp. WALNUT KETCHUP (]). Thoroughly bruise one hundred and twenty small green walnuts ; put to them | lb. ©f salt and a quart of good wine vinegar, and stir them every day for a fortnight; then strain and squeeze the liquor from them through a cloth, and add to it oz. of whole black pepper, forty cloves, ^ oz. of nutmeg bruised or sliced, 1 oz. of ginger, and 5 drachms of mace, and boil it for half an hour ; then strain it from the spices, and bottle it for use. See Ketchup, Walnut. WALNUT KETCHUP (2). Take six half- sieves of green walnut shells, put them into a tub, mix them up well with common salt (from 2 lbs. to 3 lbs.), and let them stand for six days, frequently heating and mashing them. By this time the shells become soft and pulpy; then by banking them up on one side of the tub, and at the same time raising the tub on that side, the liquor will drain off clear to the other; then take that liquor out: the mashing and banking up may be repeated as often as liquor is found. The quantity will be about six quarts. When done let it be simmered in an iron boiler as long as any scum rises; then bruise J lb. of ginger, ^ lb. of allspice, 2 ozs. of long pepper, and 2 ozs. of cloves, with the above ingredients, and let them slowly boil for half an hour. When bottled let an equal quantity of the spice goAVAL [ 550 ] WAX. into each bottle, and Avlien corked let the bottles be filled quite up ; cork them tightly, seal them over, and put them in a cool and dry place for one year before they are used. See Ketchup, Walnut. WALNUT OF MARCHPANE. Take a piece of marchpane paste, into which work some cinnamon and bole armenia (both in powder), but of the latter only a small quantity, as there should be a very slight red tinge. When equally coloured roll out the paste to the thickness of half an inch ; have ready two moulds of pear- tree wood of two halves of a walnut shell, into which put small pieces of the paste; press them down with the fingers, that the marks may be conveyed to the paste; cut off all that comes above the edges of the moulds, and then turn them out. The paste must be well sprinkled with flour to prevent it sticking to the moulds. When you have as many walnitt shells as you wish, place them the hollow side downwards on paper ; leave them thus for three or four days, and then put them into a cool oven for a quarter of an hour: if put into too warm an oven the shells will burst, and be too deeply coloured. Li the meantime boil some sugar to a syrup with a little water, and when the sweet- meats are done wash the outer part of them with this syrup by means of a hair pencil, and replace them in the oven a minute to dry; then fill each shell with a compote of apples, rasp- berries, or any other fruit; moisten the edges with gum, and stick them together. These imitative walnuts, if carefully done, bear a close resemblance to the real ones, are of a delicious flavour, and will keep a long time in a dry place. WALNUT WINE. To every gallon of ' water put 2 lbs. of sugar and 1 lb. of honey, and boil for half an hour: be careful to skim it clear. Put into a tub a handful of walnut leaves to every gallon, pour the liquor upon them, and let it stand all night; then take out the leaves, and put in half a pint of yeast; let it work fourteen days ; beat it four or five times a day, take off its sweetness, and then stop up the cask. It should stand six months before it is used. WALNUTS: To Keep. Put a layer of sand at the bottom of a jar, then a layer of walnuts, next another of sand, and so on till full. When wanted for use lay them in warm water for an hour, shift the water as it cools, rub them dry, and they will peel easily, and eiit sweet. A better plan is to soak the walnuts for an hour in water having 8 ozs. of common salt dissolved in each gallon. Then, withoiit wiping them, put the walnuts into a brown pan, cover it, and a cool cellar. WALNUTS: To Pickle (1). Gather the nuts before the inside shell is hard, which may be known by trying them with a pin ; lay them in salt and water for nine days, changing the liquor every three days; then take them out, and dry them on a sieve or mat in the air: they should not touch each other, and they should be turned that every side may become black alike; then put them into a jar. When half the nuts are in, with about thirty cloves stuck into them, add the rest of the nuts. To one hundred walnuts allow half a pint of mustard seed, \ oz. of mace, ^ oz. of peppercorns, and sixty bay leaves. Boil all the spice in some good common vinegar, and pour it boiling upon the nuts, observing that they are closely covered ; stop the mouth of the jar wdth a cloth, and cover it with bladder or leather. In about six weeks they will be fit for use, when they should be examined, and if they have absorbed the vinegar so much as to leave any of the nuts dry, more should be added, but it need not be boiled. WALNUTS : To Pickle (2). Put a hundred large double walnuts into a stone jar; take 4 ozs. of black pepper, 1 oz. of Jamaica pepper, 2 ozs. of ginger, 1 oz. of cloves, a pint of mustard seed, two cloves of garlic, and four handsful of salt; bruise the spice and mustard seed, boil them in as much vinegar as is sufficient to cover the walnuts, and when cold pour it over the walnuts ; in two days boil the pickle again, pour it to the walnuts immediately, cover them closely, and repeat this for three davs. WALNUTS preserved" WITH SUGAR. Gather the walnuts when they have attained their full size, but before they become hard : they should be in such a state that a pin will penetrate them. Prick each walnut all over with a large pin, put them into cold water, and leave them for two hours; then pour that water away, and fill the pan with fresh; let the walnuts remain thus for four days, changing the water every twenty-four hours to take out all the bitterness ; at the end of that time change the water, and set them on the fire ; as soon as they are soft take them out carefully with a skimmer, put them again into cold water, and leave them four or five days, changing the water as before every twenty- four hours: at the expiration of that time place the walnuts in a large glnzed pan. Then take common sugfn-—even the refuse of what has been clarified is good enough ; boil this with some water, and run the syrup through a jelly bag; well wash the pan that it was boiled in, then put in the filtered syrup, and boil it to lisse; let it stand, and when about half cold pour it over the walnuts and leave them. Next day drain off the syrup, boil it again, and when half cold pour it on the fruit; repeat this everyWAL [ 551 ] WAS twenty-four liours during eight or nine days, increasing the degree daily, so that at the last day it may be at jierle. A small quantity of coarse sugar should be added at every boiling, as the fruit ought to be covered with the syrup on the ninth day. Put a few cloves and some cinnamon in a glass of water for twenty-four hours; then cut each clove into four pieces lengthwise, cut the cinnamon also into bits about the same size, take the walnuts out of the syrup, and stick four pieces of clove and as many of cinnamon into every wahiut. In the mean- time boil the syrup to grande lisse, and wheu half cold pour it over the fruit, and leave it; in twenty-four hours drain off the syrup, and set it on the fire for the last time. As soon as it begins to boil put in the fruit, let them boil up together about a dozen times, and then take them from the fire. Make the bottles quite hot, put in the walnuts one by one with a skimmer, pour the syrup on (they should be quite covered with it), and when cold cork them tightly, and tie parchment over every one. These walnuts may be eaten immediately, or thev will keep for years. WALNUTS, RATAFIA OF. Take 1 lb. of young walnuts—if a pin will not pass through easily they are too old ; pound them well, and infuse them for six weeks in two quarts of brandy, with ^ drachm of cinnamon and 10 grains of m^ace. At the end of that period strain the infusion, mix it with 1 lb. of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, and let it remain six weeks longer. WARD'S DROPS. See Friab's Balsam. WARMING-PAN. The best is made water- tight, and filled with boiling water as the source of heat. If the old cinder system is followed, then attend to these notes from the " Magazine of Domestic Economy :" The warming-pan should be as large at the bottom as at the top, with sides swelling beyond them. It must shut down perfectly close, and must on no account possess those absurd, irra- tional holes, that seem made on purpose to suffocate all the consumptive in her Majesty's dominions. Not an exit must be allowed whereby a stray coal may expend its smoke ; and this pre- eminent pan, being half full of clear, brisk, bright red cinders (no ashes), a " very hot pan," in a word, is ready to commence its operations. It must be passed hastily and sharply all over the bed, the left hand being employed in lifting and wafting the bedclothes repeatedly to allow the damp (from perspiration and atmospheric moisture) to escape. When the bed feels dry and warm (for at first it will be sensibly damp to the hand), the heat will have so far passed away from the pan, that it may be safely placed beneath the clothes that are turned down at the top of the bed. Move the pan slowly along upon the pillows, occasionally shaking tlie clothes; then proceed to the night-dress, in which the pan is to be left. The volume of steam which will arise from this airing dress will astonish those who have never witnessed it; and they will naturally rejoice to think that this prodigious quantity of moisture is not to be imbibed by their pores during the night. Shake the night-dress, nestle into the genial warmth, and then compare the right with the wrong method of warming a bed. WAR.TS. Touch the top of each with aqua- fortis (nitric acid). The top will turn yellow : scratch this off the next day. Touch them again with the aquafortis, and so continue the application until they are removed. Corns can only be removed by wearing a collar round each of diachylon, spread upon thick wash- leather. This keeps off the pressure, and, if persevered in, the corns go away. Do not let the nitric acid be applied to the wart if it is bleeding, but only to the hard crust, otherwise it causes a wound Icag in healing. WASH-BALLS. See Balls, Wash, and Soap. WASHING. {See Laundry - Maid.) We fully coincide with the following remarks of Mrs. Parkes:— The present habits, both of the heads of families and their servants, render the old- fashioned monthly wash out of the question in these days; and if that were not the case, we doubt whether, taking everything into con- sideration, it would be desirable to revive the custom. To keep a laundry-maid, and to send the dirty linen out weekly to a laundress, are the two modes of management now generally adopted. The expediency of the first plan depends upon the size of a family, and the con- veniences which the house may afford for this arrangement. When a family is large enough to employ the whole time of a laundry-maid in washing, getting up, and in assisting to repair the linen, we are inclined to think it a desirable plan to be adopted. It almost in-ures good washing and the proper airing of the linen. The inconveniences are, the danger of extravagance iu soap, candles, and coals, which would render it very expensive. The laundry, also, is often a place of resort and gossip for the other servants of the family, which is an evil difBcult to prevent, unless a very strict observation is kept up on the part of the mistress. It is, perhaps, the most convenient and least troublesome plan to send out your washing to a laundress, though, if your family be large, the expense is immense: each article being separately charged makes the whole amount to a considerable sum weekly. TheWAS WAT [ 552 ] expense may, iu some degree, be diminisTied by stipulating that the smaller articles, such as pocket-hancllcerchiefs, neckcloths, and the like, be charged by the dozen, instead of each article being separately charged. Some good managers get their washing done by contract, and this, when you can insui'e its being well done, is a pleasant plan, because you ascertain the exact sum your washing will cost you during the year. But it often happens that the laundress does not discharge very conscien- tiously her part of the contract, but sends home the linen miserably got up and badly aired. When this happens you cannot consider such washing as cheaply performed. WASHING LIQUOR. Pour four quarts of boiling water upon 1 lb. of pearlash, and two quarts of cold water upon | lb. of unslaked lime ; let them stand till clear, then mix, bottle off, and cork well. Half a pint of the liquor is enough to put in eight gallons of water to wash with. Do not use it either to prints, unless fast colours, or to flannels: it will not injure the strength of cloth in the least. WASP, STING OF. See Bee, Sting of. WASSAIL CUP. Beat eight cloves in three pints of cream; beat up six yolks of eggs with a little cold cream, and mix them in; warm a bottle of tent, malmsey, or other fine-flavoured wine; put into a deep dish cakes strewed over ■with sugar, pour in the wine, and then the cream ; strew over ginger, cinnamon, and sugar, and when cool stick it thickly over with sliced almonds. Fine ale and milk may be used, with two additional yolks of eggs, or a little rice flour boiled in milk, which makes it a light supper dish. WATER. [See FrLTER.) Pure water is transparent, and without either colour, taste, or smell. In consequence of the facility of ob- taining it pure, it is assumed as a standard, to ■which the relative weights of all other bodies may be compared, its specific gravity being called 1000. At the temperature of 40° it is at its greatest density; and at that temperature an English cubic foot weighs 437102-4946 grains, or 999 0914161 ozs. avoirdupois, or 1000 ozs. nearly ; a cubic inch, 252 953 grains. A pint of pure water, wine measure, weighs, or is assumed to weigh, 16 ozs. avoirdupois. At the temperature of 32° water congeals into ice, which, if slowl}' formed, produces needles crossing each other at angles of 60° and 120°. The specific gravity of ice is 0 94 : ice, of course, always floats on water. If water be exposed to heat in open vessels, it boils, or is converted into steam, at 212°, the barometer being at thirty inches; but the boiling of water varies considerably with the pressure. When the barometer is at twenty-eight inches it will boil at a lower temperature tlian when at thirty one. At the top of Mont Blanc it boiled, ac- cording to Saussure, at 187°; so that the heights of mountains, and even of buildings, may be calculated by reference to the temperature at which water boils upon their summits. In the vacuum of an air-pump water boils at a tem- perature considerably below its ordinary boiling point. The specific gravity of air being considered as 1, that of steam is 0-6235. At mean pres- sure, and at the temperature of 212°, the bulk of steam is 1700 times greater than that of water: hence the great power and advantages of steam. Water which has been exposed to the atmo- sphere always contains a portion of air, as may be proved by boiling it, or by exposing it under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump. To separate the air, the water must be boiled for about two hours. It absorbs oxygen gas in preference to atmospheric air. Although it is usually considered necessary that water should be heated to the boiling point (212°) to be converted into steam, for mechanical and other purposes more especially, yet water is continually converted into vapour, either visible or invisible, at almost every temperature above the freezing point, depending upon the state and temperature of the atmosphere ; and it is well known that, in the driest weather, atmo- spheric air has always a considerable portion of water mixed with it: this is proved by exposing dry subcarbonate of potash to its influence, when in a very short time it becomes moist. Native water is seldom, if ever, found per- fectly pure. The waters which flow within or upon the surface of the earth contain various earthy, saline, metallic, vegetable, or animal particles, according to the substances over or through which they pass. Rain and snow waters are much purer than these, although they also contain whatever floats in the air, or has been exhaled along with the watei'y vapours. The purity of water may be known by the following marks or pi'operlies:—Pure water is lighter than water that is not pure ; pure water is more fluid than water that is not pure; it has no colour, smell, or taste; it wets more easily than the waters containing earthy and metallic salts, called hard waters, and feels softer when touched ; soap, or a solution of soap in alcohol, mixes easily and perfectly with it; it is not rendered turbid by adding to it a solution of gold in aqua regia, or a solution of silver, or of lead, or of mercury, in nitric acid, or a solu- tion of acetate of lead in water. A vaiiety of bodies are to be found in most spring water; but that which is most common is carbonate of lime, -which attaches itselfWAT W E A [ 553 ] in abundance to the sides of tea-kettles, and is commonly denomi?)ated rock. The purest water, and of course that which is the softest, is unquestionably the best, and ought to be preferred ; but soft water, with much vegetable or animal matter in a state of decomposition, is much less wholesome than hard spring water. Next to pure rain water, when to be obtained, the water of a rivulet which is in continual motion is perhaps the best. As a constant beverage with our food, water is unquestionably to be preferred to any other liquid ; nor have any cases been recorded in which the daily use of this fluid has been pro- ductive of detrimental effects. Pure water will keep for ages unaltered. It was, till modern chemistry demonstrated the contrary, supposed to be a simple body. Distilled water is ordered by the London College to be obtained thus :—Take ten gallons of water. First distil four pints, which are to be thrown away; then distil four gallons, and keep it in a glass bottle. By distillation the water is freed from various saline ingredients, and rendered nearly pure. The process should be conducted slowly, with a moderate degree of heat. We cannot conclude this article without entering our protest against the too common practice of conveying water by leaden pipes, and keeping it in leaden cisterns. Whatever may be the conveniences attendant on this mode of conveying and retaining so important a fluid, a consideration of the ease with which lead be- comes oxidated, and in that state more or less poisonous, ought to pi'ompt those who have more immediate influence in such affairs to discard the use of lead altogether. WATER IN THE CHEST. See Dropsy. WATER, CORDIAL. Infuse for a week the rinds of fifteen very sound lemons, \ oz. of cinnamon, and 4 ozs. of coriander seeds (crushed) iu a gallon and a half of brandy aiid a quart of water, and then distil it. Dissolve 3| lbs. of sugar in an equal quantity of pure river water, mix it with your liquor, and bottle it. WATER GRUEL: To Make. Take a spoon- ful and a half of fresh oatmeal, mi.x; with it gradually a quart of water, and set it on a clear fire. When just ready to boil take it oiT, and pour it backwards and forwards from one basin to another five or six times ; set it again on the fire till it is almost ready to boil, but before it comes to that point take it off, and let it stand to settle ; then strain it through a hair sieve, add a little salt, and set it to cool. WATER IN THE HEAD. See Be.un, Water on the. WATER, IMPERIAL. Put into a large jag or jar 2 ozs. of cream of tartar, with the juice of two lemons, and pour to these seven quarts of boiling water. When cold strain it through a fine sieve, sweeten, and bottle it. It is fit for use on the following day. WATER, SOUCHY. Thoroughly cleanse some perch or flounders; put them into a stew- pan with some cold water (sufficient for bi"oth), a very little white wine vinegar, and some salt, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour, carefully skimming. Serve them in the liquor they were boiled in; add to it some parsley roots neatly cut, trimmed, and ready boiled; strew over boiled parsley of a nice green, and serve bread and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the souchy. WATER-BRASH. This disorder generally attacks people of middle age, and more fre- quently females. Being a disease not much known, and seldom occurring, its causes have not been accui'ately ascertained, though low diet and emotions ofthe mind are enumerated amongst its causes. It is attended with a disagreeable pain at the stomach, with a sense of constriction, and a watery fluid escapes from the mouth, generally quite insipid in taste, and clear. It is very ti'oublesome and painful, though not fatal. The following will be beneficial in its removal:— Take submuriate of mercuiy, 2 grains ; anti- monial powder, 1 grain ; extract of colocynth, 10 grains; syrup of buckthorn, a sufficient quantity to form the mass, which is to be made into three pills, and taken at once. WATER-CLOSETS. To keep these devoid of unpleasant smells it is a good plan to rinse the pan out once daily with a weak solution of chloride of lime. See Bleaching. WATER-CRESSES, STEWED. Pick and wash twelve bunches of water-cresses ; let them be boiled till they are half done, take them out, and drain and squeezte them quite dry; then chop and put them into a stewpan ; add cullis, cream, salt, pepper, and flour, but only a small quantity of each ; let the whole stew gently ten minutes, and serve them to table with fried bread all round the dish. WATERPROOFING. See Boots, Caout- chouc, and Gutta Percha. WAX. See Sealing-Wax. WAX STAINS. Wax, spermaceti, and the composition candles let fiill drops of their melted material when carried about, or not held in a perfectly upright position. These wax stains may be instantaneously and entirely re- moved by laying over them a fold or two of dry blotting paper, and applying for a moment the pressure of a moderately hot, but not scorching, smoothing-ii'on. WEANING. It can never be necessary to continue the breast to a child for more than eight or nine months; but generallyi if a childW E A W E A [ 534 ] is favoured with a good supply by sucking during his first three or four mouths, and is iu a tolerably healthy state, he will rarely be the worse for weaniug at this early period ; so that if he is uot rather weakly, and if difficulties attend liis being suckled, there need not be any hesitation about taking him from the breast. If he feeds tolerably with the spoon, and is free from disorder iu his bowels, a tendency to con- vulsions, &c., weaning may be attempted at any time. But if feeding with the spoon is difficult, if the child is much subject to the gripes, &c., another nurse should be sought for, and weaning must be deferred until more favoui'able circum- stances attend. In general, the sooner a child is weaned the more easily it parts with the breast. Prudence directs to accustom a child to early feeding with the spoon, and to continue the same until the breast be wholly omitted. Children, if healthy, may be weaned at any age ; but as, in general, their digestion grows strong enough at about nine or ten months, they should only be fed once in six hours, at the most, during the first two months; should be entirely weaned from the breast as speedily as is convenient, and also from all feeding in the night, for that bloats them; and, if they were not used to it in the first week, they would never want it. In a week or two the child will be formed to a habit of sleeping most of the night very quietly, awaking only when wet, on which occasion it should be laid dry. The food should be simple and light, not spoiled with sugar, wine, and such-like addi- tions, for they produce the diseases that children are most troubled with. Unfermented flour makes a tough food, that turns sour before it digests, and well fermented bread soon turns sour; but if this latter is made into fresh panada every night and morning, or, in cool weather, in the morning, the inconvenience of souring is prevented. To prevent acidity in the child's stomach by a daily use of vegetable food, give now and theu a little fresh broth, made from either veal, mut- ton, or beef, once or twice in the day. Suppose, for example, a mixture of equal parts of the gravy which is discharged in cutting a joint that is brought hot on tlie table, and warm water, to which may be added a little salt, and thus an excellent broth is readily made. This is said to fill children with humours, it is true, but the humours are only of the most nourisli- ing kind. Cow's milk, a little diluted with water, is an excellent substitute for the mother's; yet it is apt to turn souit Rice is not so apt to turn sour as wheat bread is ; it therefore would be a more convenient food for children, and deserves to be attended to. Toasted bread ooiled in water till it is almost dry, then mixed with fresh milk not boiled, is an agreeable change. As the teeth advance the diet may increase in its solidity. As to the quantity, let the appetite be the measure of it, observing to satisfy hunger, but no more, which may be thus managed ; feed the child no longer than he eats with a degree of eagerness. In feeding, let the child be held in a sitting posture, and thus continue it until the stomach has nearly digested its contents. The too common practice of violently dancing and shaking the child should be avoided. Keep the child awake until it breaks wind after each time it is fed; divert it during the day as much as you can; and thus it will soon lie quiet all the night. Never awaken a child when it is asleep, for thus sickness and peevish- ness are often produced. As soon as teeth appear give the child now and then a piece of flesh meat in its hand to chew, but never give it any confectioneries. WEATHER. [See B,\rometer.) Signs of fine weather hy birds. Fine weather may be said to be certain when wild ducks fly towards the sea; when the kites and bitterns cry as they fly; the swallows fly at great heights, because then the flies keep in the upper regions ; the apodes fly after each other in the air till late in the evening, with vivacity of noise; the ravens and sparrow-hawks cry fre- quently and loudly; the turtle-doves coo softly; the robin rises in the air singing; the owl hoots ; tlie wren (Sylvia troglodytes) sings in the morn- ing till nine or ten o'clock, and after midday till four or five o'clock : beyond this time their song announces rain. By other animals. Frogs contained in glasses climb up their sides ; the glowworms fly about in great numbers in the evening ; insects and flies play in the air after sunset; the bat appears late; the spiders spin tranquilly, and extend their nets to a distance. Indications of rain by birds. When the large black sea-mew, the cormorants, aquatic birds, and birds generally, go to the rivers and water, and bathe nosily; ducks, geese, and moorhens plunge into the water, flapping it about with much noise; wild geese fly high in the air, and in disorder; the plovers become restless, flying here and there, and uttering their peculiar cry ; the ravens and the rooks assemble in groups, and then almost immediately separate; the ravens in tiie morning, and the rooks in the evening, utter continual cries, and walk solitarily on the ground ; the swallows fly low in the air. Domestic bii'ds rub themselves iu the dust; partridges, pigeons, and smaller birds bathe themselves in the sand; the cock crows immediately after sunset (when, on the contrary, the cock walks about during rain it[ 555 ] WEI WEL is a sign it will soon cease); the melancholy cry of the chaffinch is heard; the woodlark, linnet, sparrow, and robin cry or sing dining the morning ; the peacocks and owls cry more frequently and strongly than usual daring the night; the poultry are longer engaged in search- ing out the insects beneath their feathers, the latter penetrating more deeply into the skin. By other animals. When the cattle pant for air towards midday; pastured cattle, sheep, and goats leap much, and quarrel with each other ; pigs are restless, and disperse their food ; cats rub their ears, and press their bodies against obstacles; dogs become restless, scratch the ground, eat grass, and bark in a growling man- ner ; the foxes bark, the wolves howl, the moles raise the earth higher than ordinarily ; the frogs croak much, and hide themselves in the meadows; the bats do not leave their retreats in the evening ; the spiders work but little, spin short threads, and retire to their corners; the flies bite horses and cattle on the legs, are agitated, and fly confusedly together ; the fish [Cohitis foscilis) trouble the water, and the worms disturb the earth. It is considered as a presage of wind when aquatic birds of the sea and marshes fly together towai'ds the land, and play, especially in the morning; birds at sea take shelter on vessels ; wild geese fiy very high, and in floiks, going towai-ds the east; water fowls cry, and are agitated ; the lapwing cries loudlj^; the kingfisher flies towards the earth; the rooks (Corvus frui/iliyiis) -psLSS rapidly through the air, and play on the borders of water. . It is well known that hares have a presentiment of wind, and will often sit ten hours in advance on the places where it will blow. WEIGHTS. The foflowing are the three kinds of weight now recognised by law in this country:—• AVOIRDUPOIS, on IMPERIAL WEIGHT. Equivalents in Troy grains. 1 draclim 27-3.1375 1G= 1 ounce - . - - 437 5 2.')0= 10= 1 pound - - 7000- 3584= 224= 14= 1 stone - - 98000- 28072= 1792= 112= 6= 1 cwt. - 7S4(I00- 473440=30840=2240=100=20=1 ton 15C80000- TROY WEIGHT. 1 gi-ain. 24= 1 pennyweight. 480= 20= 1 ounce. 5760=240 = 12 = 1 pound. apothecaries' WEIGHT. 1 grain. 20= 1 scrapie. 60= 3= 1 drachm. 480= 24= 8= 1 ounce. 5700=388=06=12=1 pound. The stone is generally 14 lbs. avoirdupois weight, but for butchers' meat or fish it is 81bs. Hence the cwt. equals 8 stone of 14 lbs., or 14 stone of Bibs. Hay and straw are sold by the load of 8(3 trusses. See Teuss. The custom of allowing more than IGozs. to the pound of butter used to be veiy general in several parts of the country. Wool Weight. Like all other bulky arti- cles, wool is weighed by avoirdupois weiglit, but the divisions differ thus :— 7 pounds = 1 clove. 2 cloves = 1 stone. 2 stone = 1 tod. tods = 1 wey. 2 ways = 1 sack. 12 sacks = 1 last. CHEESE AND BUTTER. 8 pounds = 1 clove. 32 cloves = 1 wey in Essex. 42 cloves = 1 wey in Suflolk. 50 pounds = 1 firkin of but'er. FRENCH MODERN WEIGHTS. Myriogramme. French Metrical Weight. O r-^ Kilogramme. C: H-1 O O l-- Hectogramme. O O O 1-' O O O l-i Decagramme. / 1 10 1001 lOOO! loooo; Gramme. 1 0000011 00001 0001 001 01 1 Decigramme. 0000001 000001 00001 ,000 [ |001 01 Centigramme. 10 100 1000 10000 1011000 1000(100 100001)00 Millegramme. lbs. OZS. % = S. n^' — < „^ I O OO CO ^ ^^ so drs. O K- 1? S' t-' grs. iO JO JC lbs. Equivalents in avoirdupois weight. o « » 1 OZS. 05 ^ to H- io >— C t— O \h- ^ troy grs. i- Ci It- i.-' C K7 rt- , . fi ci it^ ci c> 0 <0 3 hl.^ C5 H- ^ If- It-- Equivalents in troy grains. WELSH PUDDING. Melt gently i lb. of fine butter, and beat it with the yolks of eightWEL [ 556 ] WHE eggs, adding 6 ozs. of lump sugar pounded, aud the grated rind of a lemon. Bake it in a dish, and when done turn it out into another for the table. WELSH RAREBIT (1). Take a slice of bread, and toast it on both sides ; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, brown it nicely with the salamander, rub some mustard over it, and serve as hot as possible. WELSH RAREBIT (Q). Toast a slice of bread moderately brown on both sides, and butter it; then toast a slice of good Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay it next the bread, after which toast the other side with a salamander or in a Dutch oven; lay mustard, pepper, aud salt over all, and serve it hot. The vulgar name of this relish is a corruption of the Welsh pro- nunciation of a " rare bit." A plainer and more eoramon way of preparing this article is to cut a slice of bread about half an inch thick, pare off the crust, and toast it slightly on both sides ; then take a slice of fat mellow Clieshire cheese or double Gloucester, a quarter of an inch thick, take off the rind, cut out the rotten parts, and lay it on the bread in a cheese toaster or Dutch oven till it is thoroughly soft, but do not let it burn. Cover it with mustard, pepper, and salt. Good cheese may also be done in a toaster without bread, but it must be served up instantly. WEN. See Neck, Derbyshire. WHEATEARS : To Truss. When picked clean cut off the heads and pinions at the first joint, flatten the breast-bone, turn the feet close to the legs, and put one between the other; take out the gizzard, and run a skewer through the middle of as many birds as ai'e to be dressed. Being small they must be fastened to the spit. WHEY. Put a very small portion of rennet into a quart of milk, and let it stand by the side of the fire till turned; then serve it in a dish, with sugar and a little nutmeg grated, aud strewed over; or strain, the liquor carefully from the curd, and serve it quite clear. WHEY: To Make. Take a quart of new milk before it is cold, and put in as much rennet as will turn it; let it stand till it turns properly, and pour it off through a coarse cloth or sieve without pressing the curd, that the whey may be the purer. It may be drunk cold or warm, by setting it before the fire. When new milk cannot be had, staler may be used by warming it to the same degree of heat. WHEY, CURDS AND. Put a little rennet into a quart of milk, according to the quantity ■wanted ; let it stand till solid, then stir it up, and serve it in a bowl. A little sugar may be eaten '*'ith it, as well as bread. The curds, which are usually served up with cream, are prepared in the same manner, and then put in a mould with holes perforated in it for the whey to drain off, and the mould being filled up as the whey runs off till it is full, it is then to be turned out on a dish, aud plain or other cream poured over it. See Curds and Whey. WHEY, VINEGAR. Put into some boiling milk as much vinegar as will make a small quantity quite clear; dilute it with hot water to an agreeable acid, and add a few lumps of sugar. You may, if you like it better, use lemon juice instead of vinegar. WHEY, WHITE WINE. Pour as much good raisin wine to a pint of boiling new milk as will completely turn it and make it look clear; let it boil up, and then set the saucepan on one side till the curd subsides : it must not be stirred. Pour the whey off, and then add to it half a pint of boiling water and a bit of loaf sugar. WHEYS. Alum Whey. Boil -2 drachms of powdered alum in a pint of milk till it is curdled, then strain out the whey. This whey is beneficial in an immoderate flow of the menses, and in a diabetes, or excessive discharge of urine. The dose is 2 ozs., 3 ozs , or 4 ozs., according as the stomach will bear it, three times a day. If it should occasion vomiting it may be diluted. Mustard Whey. Take milk and water, of each 1 pint; bruised mustard seed, l^oz. Boil them together till the curd is perfectly separated, and afterwards strain the whey through a cloth. This is the most elegant, and by no means the least efiicacious method of exhibiting mustard. It warms and invigorates the habit, and pro- motes the different secretions. Hence, in the low state of nervous fevers, it will often supply the place of wine. It is also of use in the chronic rheumatism, palsy, dropsy, &c. The addition of a little sugar will render it more agreeable. The dose is an ordinary tea-cupful four or five times a day. Scorbutic Whey. This whey is made by boil- ing half a pint of the scorbutic juices in a quart of cow's milk. More benefit, however, is to be expected from eating the plants than from iheir expressed juices. The scorbutic plants are bitter oranges, brooklime, garden scurvy-grass, and water-cresses. A number of other wheys may be prepared nearly iu the same manner, as orange whey, cream of tartar whey, &c. These are cooling pleasant drinks in fevers, and may be rendered cordial, when necessary, by the addition of wine. White Wine Whey. Pour equal parts of white wme and skimmed milk into a basin, and after they have stood a few minutes add a double portion of boiling water. In a short time theWin WH I [ 5o7 ] curd will collect and subside to the bottom; the whey is now to be strained into another vessel, and sweetened with sugar. It may be flavoui'ed with balm or a slice of lemon. This whey is an agreeable drink when retiring to rest after fatigue, or after being exposed to the in- clemency of the weather, it exciting a gentle perspiration, and may thus sometimes obviate a sudden cold or catarrh. WHIM-WHAM. Sweeten a quart of cream, and add a tea-cupful of white wine and the grated peel of a lemon; whisk it to a fi'oth, which drain upon the back of a sieve, and put part into a deep glass dish ; cut some Naples biscuits as thin as possible, and put a layer lightly over the froth, and one of currant jelly, then a layer of the froth, and one of the biscuit and jelly ; finish with the froth, pour the re- mainder into a dish, and garnish with citron and candied orange-peel cut into straws. WHITE SAUCE. See Bechamel. WHITE SWELLING, or Hydaethrus. A disease of the joints very common in this country: it affects most usually the knee, the ankle, the wrist, and the elbow. As the name of the disease implies, the skin is not, at least in its commencement, altered in its colour. In some instances the swelling yields in a certaiu degree to pressui-e ; but it never fails, and is almost always sufficiently firm, to make an un- informed examiner believe that the bones con- tribute to the tumour. The pain is sometimes vehement from the first; in other instances there is hardly the least pain. This complaint has been commonly divided into the rheumatic and the scrofulous white swelling; but there are, nevertheless, many other varieties, which it is not consistent with the limits of our work to notice, nor perhaps would such notice be of much practical utility to our readers. All the kinds are troublesome diseases, and cured wi^h great difficulty, some- times not at all. The rheumatic white swelling is attended with acute pain over the whole joint, which is increased by heat; the j>atient finds the greatest relief in a relaxed position; the tendons become rigid ; and the joint appears as if the bones were enlarged. The tumour increases to three or four times the size of the knee, and feels elastic to the touch, while the limb decreases or becomes dropsical; at length abscesses are formed, discharging matter which soon degenerates into a fetid ichor. Unless the cure be timely effected the patient is at- tacked with a hectic fever, which generally closes the scene. In the scrofulous kind the pain is more acute, and confined to one spot—the centre of the joint, or the head of the tibia, if the knee be the seat of the disorder; as the complaint pro- ceeds the swelling and stiffness increase, while the ends of the bones become visibly enlarged. Similar elasticity as in the rheumatic kind is perceptible, and abscesses are also formed, which, on being opened, discharge an offensive humour; the bones decay, and pieces are often ejected through the orifices of the wounds; the adjacent parts become progressively aifected, the general health is undermined, and the patient's sufferings end in hectic fever and death. The causes of these complaints are not always known: the most common are sup- pressed perspiration, injudicious treatment of cutaneous disorders, especially of the measles, small pox, erysipelas, &c. External violence— such as falls, blows, and frequent kneeling—has often brought on the complaint: too much care cannot, therefore, be taken in guarding against such common causes of this distressing malady. In the rheumatic white swelling, which is at first of an inflammatory nature, it will be advisable to adopt a cooling regimen; and blood should be taken from the diseased part by cupping or scarification, either of which is preferable to venesection or the application of leeches, and it may be repeated according to the strength of the patient and urgency of the symptoms. Next a blister must be applied to the opposite side, and kept open till the scarified part is healed. Internally, mild cooling laxatives, such as sulphate of magnesia, should be taken oc- casionally. Heating liquors, as well as stimu- lating food, must be also avoided. If a stiff- ness of the knee remain after the swelling has subsided, great benefit will be derived from the application of pure warm olive oil, and from gentle frictions, repeated three or four times a day. If, however, a suppuration has taken place, which may be known by the softness of the tumour, these frictions must be avoided, and recourse be had to the experienced sui'- geon. In the treatment of scrofulous white swellings what is said under King's Evil should be care- fully attended to. When this complaint is con- fined to the smaller joints it has, by those means, been sometimes cured; but when tlie larger joints, such as the knee, ankle, &c., are diseased, amputation is, we fear, the only remedy ; and sometimes, if the whole system be tainted with a scrofulous acrimony, even that operation is frequently ineffectual. In these complaints the best medical and surgical advice should at once be had. We think, however, that the warm or vapour bath, ^in many cases of white swelling, may be eminently advantageous.W HI [ 558 ] WHI The following drops and ointment have proved very effioacious :—Take of liydriodate of potass ?6 grains; of distilled water, 1 oz. Let the liydriodate dissolve. Begin with 10 drops twice or thrice a day, and increase gradually to 15 or 20 drops. Take of iodide of zinc 1 drachm; of prepared hog's lard, 1 oz. Make an oint- ment, and rub in twice a day the size of a filbert of the ointment. Tliis is likewise a good ointment for healing old sores. WHITE-POT (1). Add to a pint of cream four eggs beaten up with a little salt, some sliced nutmeg, and plenty of sugar, then the crumb of a small roll ; put it into a dish, pour the cream, &c., over it, with a few raisins previously boiled, and a little sweet butter, aud put it into a moderate oven to bake. WHITEPOT (2). Beat up the yolks of three and the whites of four eggs with two quarts of new milk, a little rose water, a nutmeg grated, and ^ lb. of sugar; lay them in a dish, aud pour the milk, &c., over them; put a bit of butter on the top, and set it in the oven. It will take half an hour s baking. WHITING, or Whitewashing. For ceil- ings no lime should be used, but well-prepared whiting. First, with a whitewash brush and repeated waters, remove all the dirt; next prepare a wash of whiting, having the necessary quantity of size and a little blue (such as washerwomen use); stir all up together, and lay on evenly with the brush, keeping your work lip close to prevent blotching. Lima is used for outdoor work, and should have some alum mixed with the water, in the proportion of 1 lb. of alum to twelve gallons of water. The alum phould be dissolved in warm water before mixing. Plasterers use the grounds of beer in coloured washes. WHITING SAUCE. Put cyder, small beer, ale, or a mixture of them, into a sauce pan, with sweet herbs, spices, and catsup, and roll it in flour, put in a little buttei', and the fins, head, &c., of the fish; strain the fish, finish it in the same manner. Add shell fish, meat balls, &c. WHITINGS: To Choose, In choosing whitings be careful that the skin has a silvery appearance, and that the body is firm and the fins stiff: these are sure proofs of their fresh- ness. The prime season for whitings is from January to April, but they may be had all the year. WHITINGS, BOILED. Whitings should be boiled in the same manner as cod, haddock, or any other fish. Serve with anchovy sauce, or catsup and butter. WHITINGS, BROILED. Wash the (\hitings in salt and water, dry them well with a cloth, flour them, lay them on the gridiron, and broil them over a very clear fire. Serve with shrimp or oyster sauce. WHITINGS, DRIED. To dry them choose the largest, take out the gills, eyes, and en- trails, and cleanse the blood from the back-bone ; wipe them very dry, and put salt in the sockets of the eyes; let them lie for a night on the board, and then hang them up in a dry place • they will be fit to eat in three or four days. Skin and rub them over with egg, strew them with bread crumbs, and lay them before the fire until sufficiently brown. Serve with ScllICG WHITINGS, FILLETS OF (Fried). Take the skins off the fillets very neatly, and cut them in two; have ready an egg beaten up with pepper and salt, and toss the beaten fillets in this. A few minutes before serving take them out of the egg, fry them quickly that they may not be greasj', and lay them neatly round the dish. Serve them with butter sauce very hot in the centre, with a squeeze of lemon juice and a little glaze mixed in it, aud garnished with shred parslev. WHITINGS, FORCEMEAT BALLS OF. Bone as neatly as possible either large or small whitings, scrape the flesh, and put it in a mortar ; boil some bread crumbs in cream until the liquor is quite soaked up, and then pour them into the mortar ; add a good bit of butter, half a shallot, salt, pepper, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites well beaten, and mix the whole well together; set a stewpan containing water on a brisk fire, and when it boils fast add to it a glass of white wine. Take a small quantity of the farce, form it into a ball, put it into some stock, and so continue till all is used. Take care to turn them about: they require a few minutes' boiling. Take them out one by one, according as you throw them in, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Serve with a good cullis sauce and a little lemon jcice. WHITINGS, FRIED. Cleanse the skin, then turn their tails to their mouths, secure them with a small skewer, do them all over with egg, and fry them in boiling lard. Serve with anchovy or shrimp sauce in a boat, Whitings are frequently served to garnish salmon aud cod. WHITINGS WITH HERBS. Cleanse and skin them, cut off the heads, then put them between two dishes, the under one well nibbed with butter, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped fine and strewed over the fish, and let them simmer in a Dutch oven ; turn the fish once or twice on a dish, and pour the sauce and sweet herbs over them. WHITLOW. The extremities of the fingers X are liable to a very painful inflammation termed whitlow, which almost always terminates in[ 559 ] WHI WIG Buppuration. It is commonly divided into four species, •\vhicli perhaps merely differ in degree. The first species is the mildest, and locates itself at the side or root of the nail. In this species the inllammation seems to penetrate no deeper than the true skin, and when it termi- nates in suppuration the matter is confined immediately below the cuticle. Should the matter find its way beneath the nail, the patient has to endure a great deal of pain from its con- finement in so unyielding a part. In the second species the inflammation pene- trates below the true skin near the extremity of the finger. It creates much pain, especially in very young people. It eventually suppurates ; but it requii'es a good deal of time before the matter discharges itself. In the third species the inflammation is seated within the sheath v.'hich covers the flexor tendons. When suppuration takes place in this species the matter finds great difficulty in passing to the surface of the skin, in con- sequence of which it is found to pass along the sheaths of tendons, even to the wrist sometimes. In the fourth species the membrane covering the bone, and even the bone itself sometimes become inflamed; but in this case the inflam- mation and suppuration are more limited than in the last species. In both the third and fourth species the pain is extreme, and the inflammation sometimes r^uns so high as to swell both the hand and arm. Much fever is sometimes excited, and we have known even delirium to attend. This disease is frequently produced by punctures, or other injuries of the like kind : we have known it several times produced by the sharp fin of a fish, and especially the cat fish. It rarely fails to suppurate; and we still more rarely have it in our power to prevent it. Several plans, however, have been proposed for this purpose, some of which are said to have been attended with success, such as holding the finger in very warm water, vinegar, or lye ; poultices of the white of an egg and honey, of lye, of brown soap, &c. As this complaint almost always runs on to suppuration, the sooner this is promoted the better, especially in the first two species. For this purpose we believe there is nothing better than the good old-fashioned bread-and-milk poultice. This must be repeated every few hours until the matter forms. When this happens it should be discharged by opening the abscess as soon as it becomes evident. The wound may be dressed with simple cei'ate. In the third and fourth species much more trouble and pani are experienced. Blisters ai'e said to have relieved this deep-seated inflam- mation : we believe this has happened but rarely. Much patience must be exercised, and suffering endured, before the matter in these cases will find its way to the surface; and sometimes much mischief is done to the parts below and around it before this happens. The bone and tendons are killed, and the usefulness of the hand is sonletimes destroyed by per- mitting this complaint to run its course. ■ On this account it is considered best to cut down to the part, in the direction of the finger, before suppuration has taken place, or as quickly after as possible, and not to wait for the tedious and painful operation of spontaneous opening. By this plan immediate relief is always experienced; for, if suppuration has not taken place, a wound which will quickly heal is substituted for an untoward inflammation, which will eventually terminate in it. If matter has formed it will now be discharged, and the parts will readily heal by very common attention—• the wound may be poulticed for two or tlu'ee days after the incision has been made, and then dressed with simple cerate. If the bone or tendon has sustained injury the progress of the cure will be very slow. Bone may exfoliate, or tendon slough. The portions of bone should be removed by forceps when loose, and the pro- truding tendon cut olf as it may appear. If proud flesh shoot up through the external opening, this must be removed by caustic, or the opening enlarged. WIDGEONS: To Roast. They should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste with butter, and sprinkle a little flour over them before they are tal;en up; pour good gravy over them, and serve with sliallot sauce in a boat. WIDGEONS, COLLARED. Bone the widgeons, cut them in halves, and marinate them for twelve hours in a little white wine, with cloves, mace, pepper, and salt; then take them out, dry them, season them with pepper and chopped sage, dip them in egg, and turn them on their sides; add two onions chop])ed up, then roll them in collars, and boil them in good stock, white wine, whole pepper, and mace. Tliey must be kept in this pickle. VVIDGEONS, HASHED. Half roast them; when served, slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour on a little red wine, and squeeze a little lemon juice over. WIGS : To Make. Rub J lb. of butter into 2 lbs. of flour, and with about half a pint of warm cream and half as much yeast make it into a light paste, and set it before the fire. Wiiile rising, grate in a nutmeg, with some beaten mace and cloves, 4- oz. of caraways, and ^ lb. of sugar; work the whole well, and makeWIN [ 560 ] AVIL tlie wigs what shape you please. When done set them on tin plates before the fire till they rise again, and then bake them in a quick oven. The paste may also be made into a single cake, with or without comfits or caraways. WILD DUCK: To Roast. For roasting a wild duck you must have a clear brisk fire and a hot spit: it must be browned on the outside without being sodden in. To have it well frothed and full of gravy is the nicety. Pre- pare the fire by stirring and raking it just before the bird is laid down, and fifteen or twenty minutes will do it in the fashionable way ; but if you like it a little more done allow a few minutes longer. If it is done too much it will lose its flavour. WILL. No one having the slightest regard for his family ever should risk dying without having made a duly executed will. It is cruel not to do so, because dying intestate gives rise to disputes among relatives ; and it is unreason- able, because making a will causes no disquiet or injury to the testator. If a person knows of no property belonging to him except the garments on his back, still let him make a will; for he may be entitled to property, though unknown to him, and his will would convey it to whom he wished, though his title to the property was not discovered until after his death. The will should always be made as concise as possible, and the fewer the words expressive of the meaning intended to be conveyed, the less likelihood there is of its being misunder- stood, or perverted by the litigious and un- principled. The words used to describe the bequest should be such as to leave no doubt as to what is intended to be included, and, at the same time, not so comprehensive as that by any construction they may be held to include more than the testator really intends. Thus, when all iJie testator s jn'ojjerty is intended to be contained in the bequest, such words as the following are the best that can be adopted for the purpose :—" I devise all and every my real and personal estate and estates, whatsoever and wheresoever, and of what nature or tenure soever the same may be, and wheresoever the same may be situate, lying and being, and whether in possession, reversion, or expectancy, or in which I am in any manner interested, or have any right or title whatsoever." Or, if a particular part is only to be comprised, it may be, " All that my messuage or farm at now occupied by ; " or, " All my freehold property at ; " or, " All that sum of £ now standing in my name in the three and a half per cent, annuities," as the nature of the property may be. The inteiest to be disposed of should always be expressed; for, if any real property be merely devised " to my friend A. B.," he would be entitled to a life intei'est only in it. Words of inheritance—that is, " his heii'S and assigns for ever"—must always be added when it is intended that the persons should have the entire property, and right of disposing of the devise. With personal property it is not so; and the bequest of £1000 " to my friend A. B.," without any other words, would give him such entire property and right of disposal. The will in every case must be signed, sealed, published, and declaimed in the presence of two witnesses, who must at the same time sign their names as witnesses in the presence of the testator, and in the presence of each other. The testator must sign his name at the foot of every sheet, and- the witnesses theirs also, and at the end the testator must sign his name and affix his seal, and say, " I hereby publish and declare this as and for my last will and testa- ment, and request you and each of you to attest the execution hereof by me." The form of conclusion should be, " In witness whereof, I, the said A. B., the testator, have to this my last will and testament, written and contained in this and the (three) preceding sheets of paper, set my hand and seal, that is to say, my hand to each of the said (three) sheets, and to this (fourth) and last sheet my hand and seal this day of 18 ; " and the proper form of attestation under which the witnesses are to sign their names and addresses is as follows: —"Signed, sealed, published, and declared by the said A. B., the testator, as and for his last will and testament, in the presence of us, who, at the time, in his presence, at his request, and in the presence of each other, have here- unto subscribed our names as Avitnesses. "C. D. I "E. F."i WINDOW BLINDS. See Blinds. WINDOW CLEANING. Wash off the dirt, dry the glass, and remove the dust with a brush, such as painters use for the purpose. Dab a few spots on each pane with a bag con- taining dry whiting or dried blue, such as is used for washing, and polish this off with a diy cloth or leather. WINE. See Bottling, Cellar, and wines under their respective names. WINE : To Sweeten. Infuse a handful of the flowei'S of clary in thirty gallons of wine; then add 1 lb. of mustard seed ground, put it into a bag, and sink it to the bottom of the cask. When wine is lowering or decaying take 1 oz. of roche alum, and reduce it to powder; then draw off four gallons of the liquor, mix t'^e powder with it, and stir it well for an houx.[ 561 ] WIN WIN Fill up the cask, and when fiae, which will he in about a week, bottle it off. WINE BITTERS. See Bitters, Wine. WINE, EGG. See Egg Wine. WINE, FININGS FOR. See Finings for Wine. WINE, MULLED. See Mulled Wine. WINE POSSET. Take a quart of new milk and the crumb of a penny loaf, and boil till the bread is soft; then take it off, grate therein half a nutmeg and some sugar, put it into a basin, and add a pint of Lisbon wine very gradually, or it will make the curd hard and tough. Serve it with toast. WINE ROLL. Soak a French roll in sweet wine till it will hold no more, pour it into a dish, and pour round it custard and cream, sugar and lemon juice. Previously to serving it sprinkle thereon some comfits or a few split almonds. Sponge biscuits may be substituted for the roll. WINE, ROPY : To Fine. Put a piece of coarse linen cloth on the end of the cock which goes into the cask, and then rack the wine into a dry one, putting 5 ozs. of powdered alum to thirty gallons. Roll and shake the whole well, and it will soon become fine. WINE SAUCE. Take a spoonful of flour and a preserved green lemon cut into dice, and mix them with a glass of Madeira wine and a little consomme; add 1 oz. of butter, some salt, and nutmeg; set these on a very hot stove to boil for a quarter of an hour, then take it off, put in J lb. of butter, and set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till the butter is melted. See also Sauce, Wine. WINE VINEGAR. Mix a quantity of vinous liquor with the lees, or the acidulous stalks of the vegetable from which it has been prepared; stir the same frequently, and expose it to the sun or in a warm place till it ferments. WINE WHEY (1) Take a quart of milk and a pint of water; boil, and add half a pint of white wine. WINE WHEY (2). Boil a pint of milk, add to it a glass of white wine, put it over the fire till it just boils again, then set it by till the curd has settled, when sti'ain it and sweeten to your taste. WINES. The different kinds of wines will be found treated of also under their various heads. The art of making wine by fermenting the juice of the grape appears to have been practised from the remotest antiquity, even before the flood; for we find that Noah planted a vineyard soon after the deluge. (Gen. ix. 20.) There are many varieties of the Vitis vinifem, or vine ; and, independently of this, soil and climate have a very sensible effect on the taste and quality of the juice extracted from the VOL. II. grape. The limits within which the vine is cultivated in the Old World vary from 15° to 52° in our northern hemisphere, and at an alti- tude not exceeding 3000 feet. The species in- digenous to North America is different from the European vine. Formeily considerable quanti- ties of inferior wine were made from grapes grown against walls in England, and in favour- able seasons the fruit still ripens in the open air. Our hothouse grapes, being produced from the best varieties of the vine, are equal, if not superior, for dessert to any in the world. Provided the climate is suitable, all sorts of soil are applicable to the vine, although light and gravelly spots are preferred. A rising open ground, having a south-east aspect, is generally selected for the vineyard; but although the very same species of grape is cultivated, the same management adopted, and the soil to all appearance alike in contiguous fields, the produce, when made into wine, is often different. In the neighbourhood of Vesuvius and other volcanic districts the best Italian wines are produced; and the far-famed Tokay is made from the grapes cultivated in a soil of that description. Stony ground is also favourable, the fine wine called Hermitage being produced from grapes rooted amongst the fissures of granite rocks. The famed wines of the ancients were generally drunk diluted with water; and the best of them, such as the Lebois and Chios of the Greeks, and the Falernian of the Romans, are supposed by Dr. Henderson to have partaken somewhat of the character of Madeira. In preparing them they were thickened to the consistence of honey; but, however relished in olden times, they are little suited to the present taste. The wines consumed in this country are Port, Sherry, Madeira, Champagne, Claret, Hock, Mai'sala, Cape, and several others. Cape Wines have been considerably im- proved of late years, and the consumption in England is great—not under this denomination, but for the purpose of mixing with Sherry, Madeira, and other good wines. The Cape of Good Hope being a British possession, its pro- duce is admitted at 2s. 6d. per gallon duty, ■while the duty on foreign wines is 5s. 6d.; and this accounts for the importation of upwards of 500,000 gallons annually of a very inferior wine, which has an earthy, disagreeable taste, and a total want of aroma and flavour. There is a wine called Constantia grown at the Cape, upon two farms of that name, near the base of Table Mountain, and this is much esteemed, being very luscious, and little inferior to the Muscadine of Languedoc. Of late years ex- periments have been made in some others of the 2 0[ 562 ] W I N WIN British colonies, and with fair pi'ospects of suc- cess. As our possessions inckide climates and soils of every degree, it is not improbable that in time, with care and management, we shall equal, if not surpass, the same vintages of France and Germany. Madeira. See Madeira Marsala. See Marsala. Port. See Port. Sherry. See Sherry. The goodness of all wine, in a medical point of view, depends upon the quantity of astrin- gent matter contained in it. This is tecluiically called tannin, and the best mode of ascertain- ing its presence is to drop a solution of isinglass into a tumblerful of wine, when a gelatinous precipitate will take place in proportion to the quantity of tannin it contains. To obtain an assimilation to this essential in Ports and Clarets, and in order to produce the desired astringency, alum is the article in general use for adulteration, and this may be detected by the following test:—Drop some so- lution of subcarbonate of potash into the wine, and if alum is present the precipitate will be violet-coloured, and the colour and cloudiness will vanish again on adding a few drops of muriatic acid or caustic potash. Sugar of lead— a deadly poison—is also an article used by un- principled persons for adulterating wine; and its presence may be detected by the usual chemical test of water impregnated with sulphu- retted hydrogen gas and a small portion of muriatic acid, filling a glass about one-third full, and the rest with the wine under test. If a black precipitate falls it is lead, which may be easily proved by the action of a blow-pipe. Or the presence of any metallic ingredient may be discovered by the following more general test: —Take of quicklime 1 oz.; orpiment, ^ oz.; distilled water, half a pint. Dissolve and filter oyster shells and sulphur, each 1 oz.; keep them red-hot for a quarter of an hour; when cold add an equal part of cream of tartar and a pint of water, boil for an hour, then decant into ounce phials, adding 20 drops of the spirit of salt to each. A few drops of this liquor added to any kind of wine precipitates any metal except iron that may be contained in it. But even though wine may be unadulterated with deleterious substances, it is rarely that it can be procured genuine, the immense differ- ence in price between the prime and inferior sorts inducing the dealer to mix the rough Spanish with the Port, the former being whole- some enough, but by no means equal to the latter in strength, colour, and flavour. It then becomes necessary to imitate the essentials of prime wine; and the strength is given to it by the addition of spirits, which may be detected by putting the wine in a water-bath, and heat- ing it till it approaches the temperature of boil- ing water, when, should there be any brandy present, it will distil over, while the spirit of the wine remains, as no wine gives out its spirit at a less heat. The substances used for colouring wine are Brazil wood, bilberries, red saunders, or red beet, Campeachy wood, elder, &c. In order to ascertain if any artificial means have been used to produce a colour, put a gill of wine into a phial, with 1 oz. of pulverised fresh charcoal ; shake the mixture for a few minutes, when the natural colouring matter vv-ill be chemically destroyed, and the wine, when filtered, will yield a clear limpid fluid ; but if the wine is artificially coloured the substance employed will not be acted on by the charcoal, and the mixture will appear unchanged. During the war, when vast quantities of wine were supplied to the fleet, so barefaced was the system of adulteration that large chips of logwood were frequently left in the casks, the contractors not being at the trouble to substitute the sawdust of that wood, which, if mixed with carbonate of soda and put into water, communicates to it the colour and appearance of red wine; but this colour may be destroyed by adding a few drops of lemon juice. Brazil wood and potash are also used for giving a factitious crust to wine, this test of age not being always, as Mathews used to declare, " blown in the bottle." It is not unfrequently the case that a crust, to imitate the deposition made by age in wine, is applied to the casks by means of supertartrate of potash; for the older the wine the less of the tartar, or supertartrate of potash, is coiitaiued in it, consequently the greater the deposition; and the trick of putting new wine into old casks or bottles is often resorted to. To ascertain the quantity of the salt take a pint of wine, boil it down to one-half, and into that pour a solution of muriate of platinum, when a precipitate takes place, greater or less in proportion to the quantity of salt present. Having now apprised the reader in some measure of the tricks employed, and shown him how they may be detected, we shall pre- sume him to exercise caution in purchasing, and next make some observations upon the course he should pursue. First, as to the cellar, which should be as deep as possible, but dry, and cannot have too much air, otherwise the hoops, staves, or corks are apt to rot. When casks are intended to retain wine in what is called " the wood " for several years they should he painted with oil and some common ochre, sprinkling over them some fine sand, and thenWIN WIN [ 563 ] adding another coat, which will form a complete incrustation against damp or dry rot. There are means of hastening the ripening of wine, some of them unattended with deleterious consequences; but all these means, however innocent, are injurious to wine itself. The wine should be left to ripen naturally, and this ripening will be impeded if the temperature of the cellar is not properly attended to. The liquor should be examined from time to time, and if it gets musty or tart put a quantity of clean wheat straw into a bag, and suspend it in the cask from the bung-hole : when the wine becomes firm, which will soon be the case, rack it off from the lees into a clean cask. This is better than pouring oil on the wine—a practice to prevent it from turning musty. Hazel chips are an efficacious and harmless remedy for clearing turbid wine; or a more active ingredient is powdered gypsum, stirring it up well in the cask, and drawing oft" the wine when the powder has subsided to the bottom. Before wine is racked into a fresh cask it is always proper to prime it by means of a rag dipped in brimstone, lighted, and inserted in the bung-hole at the end of a wire, the cask being stopped up after it has burned a minute or two. The reason for, and utility of, this is chemically proved as follows :—If two or three drops of the oil of tartar are poured into half a glass of fine red wine, the wine will lose its red colour, and become opaque and yellowish, like turbid and pricked wine ; but if two or three drops of the spirit of sulphur, which is a very strong acid, are afterwards poured into the glass, the same wine will entirely resume its beautiful red colour, when the reason is easily seen why sulphur is burnt in hogsheads in order to preserve wine, since it is not the inflammable part of sulphur that causes this effect, but its acid spirit that enters and fer- ments the wood of the vessel. Madeira wines require a high temperature, and no process for ripening them is found to be equal to a voyage to India, when the heat of the sliipholds, added to the motion, produces the effect desired, though often at a considerable waste caused by evaporation. It has been attempted to imitate this, and even to give the motion, by artificial means, and doubtless it may be done. Indeed, in some cases Madeira wine is placed in pineries and other forcing houses, with a view of quickening it to maturity. There are many situations in factories where the opportunity of effecting .it on a large scale occurs, and may be made available with little lost or trouble. There is a practice, very generally adopted in France, for ripening new wines by the appli- cation of heat. It is as follows:—They take Claret which has been in bottle a year or less, and drawing out the corks, pour a glassful from each, and then re-cork them tightly. Next they place the bottles so prepared in a hot oven, and stop it up for two hours, at the end of which time they allow it to cool gradually. After this they fill up the bottles, cork them carefully, replace them in the cellar, and in a day or two the wine has every appearance of having been bottled for ten years. Whatever may be the quality or value of wine, it must always be so much more so, comparatively, than the corks, that it is the height of folly to use an inferior article. Yet how frequently do we find that a bottle of corked wine appears, the loss of which is but poorly compensated by the saving of a few shillings in as many gross of corks. Some recommend the corks to be dipped in a size made of white wax melted with half its quantity of beef suet, letting them dry rapidly, and repeating the dipping till perfectly saturated; others ai'gue against the corks at all, but suppose the substitution of a bladder tied over the mouth of the bottle, which retains the alcohol, and consequently improves the wine, although it may permit some portion to evaporate. The use of corks of the best quality for all sorts of wines, and of the second best for beer or porter, will, however, obviate any appre- hension on this score; and they should be dipped in some of the liquor before they are inserted, to facilitate the driving down. Most wine merchants, when they bottle off" a tierce of wine, permit the bottles to stand on end for two or three weeks before they lay them down, and in general a day or two without the corks. We need scarcely repeat that the bottles should be carefully washed, racked dry, and afterwards strictly examined, to ascertain that no leaden shot or any other matter has been left in. Neglect on this point will produce greater loss than what is incurred by a little extra expense. WINES, BRITISH. These are severally noticed under the names of the articles of which they are made. It is of considerable conse- quence to the making of good wine that atten- tion be paid to the state and condition of the fruit. Fruit of every sort should be gathered in fine weather. Those of the berry kind often appear ripe to the eye before they really are so ; there- fore it is requisite to taste them several times in order to ascertain that they have arrived at the crisis of maturity. This is an important point in the making of excellent wine. If fruit be not ripe the wine will be harsh and iiard, unpleasant to the palate, and more so to the stomach; it will also require more spirit and saccharine, and take a longer time to be fit forWIN L 564 ] WIN the table, if ever it be so. If fruit be too ripe the wine from it will be low and vapid ; it will not be strong and generous, and it will also require more trouble, additional spirit, and ex- pense. Pickin(j the fruit. This is detaching the unripe and bad berries. The process is certainly tedious; but the result of such fruit, when the wine is drunk, will in its richness and quality be most eminently superior. Grapes should also have their stalks picked from them previously to their being placed in the vat. Bniisinrj the fruit. A considerable advantage is gained by this operation in time and bulk. Besides, it prepares the fruit for nature's hermetical elaboration. The quantity of fruit for making a vintage of domestic wine is not so large but it may be bruised in a tub, and from thence removed into the vat; or, if a very small quantity, it may be bruised in the vat. While the fruit is being picked by one person another may be bruising it, and as it is bruised remove it into the vat. When Malaga or Smyrna raisins are used they are to be put into the vat with the water to soak, and the following day taken out and bruised ; then return them into the vat again, and the general process is to follow. Vattbig the fruit. The first thing to be done is placing a huc-muc, or guard, on the inside of the vat against the tap-hole, to prevent the husks escaping at the time the must is drawn off. Immediately all the fruit is in the vat the portion of water assigned should be added, then the contents stirred up with the vat staff, and left to macerate until the next day, when the sugar, tartar, &c., diluted with some of the liquor, are to be put into the vat, and the whole again stirred up. The place where the vat is situated should be perfectly free from any noxious matter or disagreeable smell, and should have a free circulation of air, and a temperature of not less than 58°. If a vinous fermentation does not take place in a reasonable time the contents must be often stirred, and the temperature of the place made warmer. The time of a vinous fermentation com- mencing is always uncertain. It depends much on the quality and quantity of the contents of the vat, its local situation, the season or weather, and most particularly on the green- ness or ripeness of the fruit. To produce a medium vinous fermentation the vats and contents ought to be placed in a temperature of from 60° lo 70° ; and, if this is not found to produce fermentation in a short time, the temperature of the place must be made still warmer, and the component matter often stirred with the vat staff. The commencement of a vinous fermentation may be pretty well known by plunging the thermometer into the middle of the contents of the vat for a minute, and when taken out, if a fermentation has commenced, the temperature of the contents will be higher than the place where the vats are situated. Shortly after this the vinous fermentation begins to be very conspicuous, and may be easily known by its taste, smell, appearance, and effects. The contents will first gently rise and swell, with a slight movement and a little hissing. Some time after a considerable motion will take place, the contents will also increase in heat and bulk, and at this crisis a quantity of air escapes. These effects continue a long time, changing and decomposing the primordial substances. It is the elaboration of the vinous fermenta- tion that decomposes the saccharine, produces spirit in wine, and renders it wholesome : hence may be perceived the indispensable necessity of it. When the vinous fermentation is about half over, the flavouring ingredients are to be put in the vat, and well stirred into the contents. If almonds form a component part they are first to be beaten to a paste, and mixed with a pint or two of the must. Nutmegs, cinnamon, ginger, seeds, &c., should, before they are put into the vat, be reduced to powder, and mixed with some of the must. It is impossible to lay down an exact time for a vinous fermentation; but for eighteen gallons two or three days are generally suffi- cient for white wines: red wines may have a day or two more. Towards the end of the vinous fermentation the agitation, effervescence, and discharges of air cease. The must also in the vat will give, by tasting, a strong vinous pungency to the tongue. This is the period, in order to have a strong and generous wine, to stop the remaining slight fermentation by drawing off the must. Drawing the must. Must is the name of new wine before it has gone through all the requisite processes and is perfected. A cock, or spigot and faucet, is to be put into the tap-hole of the vat, and the must drawn off immediately and put into open vessels, there to remain until the pressing is finished. Pressing the husk. As soon as all the must is drawn off from the vat the husks (residuum) are to be put into hair bags, the mouths of the bags are to be well fastened, then put into the press, and the whole of the vintage pressed without delay. When the pressing is all finished the must that is pressed out is mixed with the must that was drawn off from the vat. Many ways may be contrived for pressing a small[ 505 ] WIN WIN vintage for those persons who cannot afford to purchase a proper wine-press. Any hedge car- penter can contrive a temporarjr press with two short flat boards, and a long heavy pole to act as a lever. A thing of this sort may be made to have very great power. Such wines as requii'e pressing may be pressed through a sweet, clean canvas bag, made with a pointed end downwards, sufficiently large to contain the residuum. Cashing the must. The must may be cashed in the place where the vintage is performed, or, for conveniency, it may be taken in portions to the cellar. Each cask will have to be filled within about an inch of the bung-hole, which should be covei'ed over lightly with a flat bit of wood, or some other light matter that will answer the same purpose. This and the last two processes ought to be performed with alacrity. Spirituous fermentation. The spirituous fer- mentation diffei's from the vinous : it is essen- tially necessary to the clarification, the good- ness, and perfection of the wine, and it may be said to be the last natural operation in the pro- cess of the vintage. If the vinous fermentation has been well conducted, and the wine cellar be not too cold, a spirituous fermentation will commence in a few days ; but this will only be just perceptible by a little hissing, a slight effervescence, and the bit of wood on the bung-hole will move up and down in time, in consequence of the dis- charge of the remaining air gas. This spirituous fermentation will abate in six or twelve days, the time depending on circum- stances, and on the quality and quantity of the wine, the liquor now being entitled to this last appellation. The brandy assigned should at this time be put to the wine by pouring it in gently without disturbing the wine. No doubt need be entertained but that association will soon take place between the spirit and the wine as effectually as if it had all been mixed together by agitation. The cask now, if not full, must be filled up, and bunged up air-tight with, if possible, a wooden bung covered with a piece of new canvas much larger than the bung, in order that the latter may be at any time taken out with more facility. In about a month after the spirit has been added the cask will again want filling up: this should be done with (if to be had) the overplus of the vintage; if not, with some other good wine. The cask must now be bunged up tightly. After this the cask is to be pegged once a month or oftener, to see if the wine be clear, and not thick ; and, as soon as it is perceived fine and bright, it is to be racked off from its lees. Backing the wine. This is an operation highly requisite for keeping wine good—to its purification, strength, colour, brilliancy, gout, aroma, &c.; and it is performed by drawing off the wine, and leaving the lees in the cask. A siphon should be used for this purpose ; but if not, the cask must l)e tapped with a cock two or three days previously to the wine being racked off. It may be racked off into another cask, or vat or tub, and returned into the same cask again after it has been well cleaned; and, if requisite, the cask may be slightly fumigated immediately before the wine is turned into it. The wine is now to be tasted, and, if found to be very weak, a little spirit is to be given to it, and the cask filled up and bunged tightly. The process of racking ought to be performed in temperate weather, and as soon after made as the wines appear any way clear ; for perhaps a second racking may make them perfectly brilliant, and if so they will want no fining. This is highly advantageous to any wines, but most particularly to red wines. Fining the nine. Many wines improperly made, or made of bad fruit, require fining before they are racked. Nevertheless the operation of fining is not always necessary. Most wines, well made, do not want fining. This point must be ascertained by drawing off a little of the wine into a glass from a peg-hole in front of the cask, and if it be found not perfectly brilliant it is then to be fined. Many are the means and finings for distempered wines, but for those lately made, and in health, the following methods will give them the requisite limpidity:— Take 1 lb. of fresh marsh-mallow roots, wash them clean, cut them into small pieces, and macerate them in two quarts of soft water; stew gently, boil the liquor down to three half- pints, strain it, and when cold mix it with half a pint of pipe-clay or chalk in powder; then pour the mucilage into the cask, stir up the wine so as not to disturb the lees, and leave the vent-peg out for some days after. Or, take two table-spoonsful of boiled rice, the white of one new-laid egg, and J oz. of burnt alum in powder. Mix these matters up with a pint or more of wine, then pour the mucilage into the cask, and stir up the wine with a stout stick, but so a.s not to agitate the lees. Or, dissolve in a gentle heat i oz. of isinglass in a pint or more of wine, then mix with it ^ oz. of chalk in powder, and when the two are well incorporated pour it into the cask, and stir up the wine, but so as not to disturb the lees. As soon as the wines are clear and bright after being fined down they ought to be racked into a sweet, clean cask, and the cask filled up and bunged tightly. Bottling and corking. Fine clear weather isWIN [ 5G6 ] WIN best for bottling all sorts of wine, and rnucli cleanliness is required in this operation. The first consideration in bottling wines is to exa- mine whether the wines are in a proper state for this purpose. It is folly to attempt bottling before the wines are fine and brilliant, as they will never brighten afterwards. Before this operation is commenced all the apparatus is to be in readiness. The bottles must be all sound, clean, and dry, with plenty of good sound corks, as much depends on them. Surely no one would wittingly spoil a bottle of good wine for the sake of using a bad cork. A finger ought to be introduced into the neck of each bottle as it is corked: by this means it is ascertained what cork will best fit each of them. The small end of the cork that enters the bottle is first to be squeezed with, if convenient, iron or wooden pincers. The cork is to be put in with the hand, and then driven well in with a flat wooden mallet, the weight of which ought to be 1J lb., but not to exceed H- lb.; for, if the mallet be too light or too heavy, it will not drive the cork in properly, and is also liable to break the bottle. The cork must so completely fill up the neck of each bottle as to render them air-tight; if not, the cork must be withdrawn, and another put in. The corker must so manage as to leave a space of an inch between the wine and the cork. When all the wine is bottled it is to be stored in a cool cellar, and on no account on the bottles' bottoms, but on their sides, and saw- dust, if not moss or hay, put copiously between them to prevent their breaking, which would, of course, waste the wine. Drinking. Wines, whatever their colour may be, ought, when drunk, to be clear and brilliant; for the same wines, if not so, will not be whole- some, nor will they have their proper fine gout. Wines that have not age given them will not drink by many degrees so potent as they would have done had that been granted. Wines are known by their taste, brightness, colour, and aroma. The requisite criteria of truly good wines are that they possess strength, beauty, fragrance, coolness, and briskness. Family made wines have seldom fair play— they are mostly drunk as soon as made. How can individuals expect their wine to be good, generous, and drink well under such improper circumstances ? Wines made of grapes, currants, gooseberries, &c., approach more nearly in their nature, and in their effects on the human body, to ale than do the continental wines. The fruits require, in order to produce tliB vinous fermentation, that sugar be added to them, and the fermenta- tion must begin by the addition of some kind of yeast or ferment; and so weak are they for the most part that, in order to pi'event them from running into acidity, it is common to finish the process by the addition of some sort of spirit. All these causes combine to render home-made wine a much less perfect liquor than the wines of the continent. They con- tain more sugar. Foreign wines in a state of purity contain spirit, and depend on the spirit for their stimulation and intoxication; yet the spirit is in a state of combination, and not in a state of simple mixture, with the other ingre- dients. The consequence of this is that a given quantity of a stronger foreign wine—a wine, in fact, which contains more spirit—may be taken without intoxication than a similar quantity of some British wines, that are weaker, could be taken without that result. The effect of age on wines, w^hich is so well known to be in both cases veiy great, depends on the blending of the several ingredients—their intimate union—which time, and only time, can produce, and upon this union depends the per- fection of wine. We may just observe that wine seldom remains long in any one state : it is either improving or getting worse. Up to a certain time the several components are uniting more intimately together; and, so long as this is the case, wine is on the mend. When the union has once become perfect, the chemical action still going on, the elements enter into new combinations, and the wine degenerates until it becomes perfectly undrinkable. We remember tasting some Port that had been thirty-three years in bottle; it was as pale as Sherry, and as nauseous as physic. But to return, for we are forgetting the head that is prefixed to these remarks. The effect of wine on the human body depends greatly on the natui'e of this combination. Sweet wine is apt to cloy the stomach, and produce flatulence. Mucilaginous wine is little better. An excess of astringency very commonly produces dis- turbance in a stomach that is in any way dis- ordered. The presence of uncombined spirits is apt to occasion all the ill effects of so much diluted alcohol. From the several remarks we draw the following practical conclusions:—Home-made wines are to be regarded as a mixture of perfect wine with an excess of sugar, mucilage, and spirit. To be taken with safety they require a stomach that can digest them without any inconvenience, and a sufficient quantity of active bodily exercise to work off their effects, otherwise they will produce a degree of re- pletion similar to that caused by too rich or too much food, and a degree of undue excitement, followed by a proportionate amount of de- pression, similar to that caused by drinking diluted spirits. If they are digested withoutwoo WOO [ 507 ] difficulty, and if their loading and exciting effects are compensated for by a sufficient amount of bodily exercise, we can have little hesitation iu affirming that, in point of whole- someness, they occupy a middle place between fermented liquors and foreign wines. Their use does not require so much working off as the use of ale or porter, but it requii'es moi'e working off than that of foreign wine; and, when their effects are so worked off, they ai'e less likely to do harm than foreign wines. WOOD. {See Bkech and other names respectively.) We shall here only treat of the methods of hardening and colouring wood. To harden wood for vialdng pulleys. After finishing the pulley, boil it seven or eight minutes in olive oil, and it will become as hard as copper. To prepare green wood so that it may not spilit in turning. Having cut the wood into pieces of a proper size, put it into a vessel full of lye, made with wood ashes. Boil it there about an hour; remove the caldron from the fire, and when the lye is'cold take out the wood and dry it in the shade. To give an ebony black to hard and fine wood. Rub the wood, previously made of the shape intended, with aquafortis a little diluted. Small threads of wood will arise in the drying, which must be rubbed off with pumice-stone. Repeat the process again, and then rub the wood with the following composition :—Put into a glazed earthen vessel 4 ozs. of sulphate of iron and a jpint of water, having \ oz. of borax and as much indigo dissolved in it; let the whole boil till a froth arises. Rub several layers of this upon the wood, and when it is dry polish it with leather and tripoli. To give plum tree the colour of Brazil tvood. Slake lime with urine, and daub the wood over it while it is hot; allow it to dry; then take off the coat of lime, and rub it with chamois skin well oiled. Or, steep the wood in water, having a quantity of alum dissolved in it; let it be kept lukewarm, and let the wood remain in it five or six hours. When it is dry rub it as before with chamois skin well oiled. To make neiv mahogany of a dark colour. Make a paste with quicklime and water; rub this paste over the mahogany, and the colour will be darker in proportion to the quantity used and the time which it is suffered to remain upon it: a few minutes will often be sufficient. To give a fine black colour to wood. Steep the wood for two or three days in lukewarm water, in which a little alum has been dissolved ; put a handful of logwood chips into a pint of water, and boil down to G ozs. : a little indigo being added will make the colour more beauti- ful. Spread a layer of this liquor, quite hot, on the wood with a pencil, which will give it a violet colour; when dry lay on another layer, and also a third ; then boil some verdigris in vinegar, and spread a layer of it on the wood. When dry rub it with a brush, and then with oiled chamois skin. To stain ivood Hue. Take 2 drachms of indigo in powder, put it into a glass with 2 ozs. of sulphuric acid, and stir them with a clean tobacco-pipe : after standing twelve hours mix a sufficient quantity of water with it to give the I'equired colour. To stain wood green. Dissolve verdigris in dis- tilled vinegar, or in aquafortis diluted with fifteen or twenty times its weight of water, and apply the solution to the wood, previously warmed. To stain wood purple. Take logwood chips, 1 oz.; Brazil wood, 2 drachms: boil them together in a quart of water over a slow fire. When one-half of the fluid is evaporated it must be strained, and several times laid on the wood with a proper brush till it has received a dark red shade. After it is perfectly dry draw over it repeatedly a weak solution of the purest pearlash, namely, 1 drachm in a pint of water : the colour will then become, if the liquids have been dexterously applied, a fine purple. To slain ivood red. Take Brazil wood and pearl- ash, of each 2 drachms. Mix them in a quart of water, and let the mixture stand in a warm place for several days, stirring it occasionally. When the colour is sufficiently extracted the coloured liquor must be moderately warmed, and in that state applied to the wood as many times as may be necessary to give it the desired colour. Next a solution of alum, in the pro- portion of 2 ozs. to a quart of water, is to be laid on the wood, while it is still wet with the former stains, with a soft brush. The wood may be afterwards polished or varnished. To stain ivood yellow. Take 1 oz. of turmeric root in powder; rectified spirit of wine, 1 pint. Digest them, shaking daily for a week, in a stopped bottle ; then decant the liquor, and lay it on repeatedly as may be found necessary. Or wood may be stained j^ellow by applying weak aquafortis to wood previously warmed, and, im- mediately after the stain is given, it should be held at some distance from the fire till it acquires the desired tint. A cement for stopping cracks in wood. Take pitch, bullock's blood, linseed oil, turpentine, and the finest brickdust, melted together in an iron pan. Small chinks may be filled with this substance whilst it is hot; larger ones should have tow or oakum previously stuffed into them ; and it is of importance that the wood be thoroughly dry, or the composition will not stick. WOODCOCK PIE, COLD. When theWOO woo [ 568 ] woodcocks are picked take out the entrails, set them aside, and truss the birds as for roasting ; fiatten the breast-bone, and boil them over a clear charcoal fire ; let them get cold, and lard them all over. Pound some bacon in a mortar, mix with it the livers of the birds, also pounded, and two or three leaves of sweet basil; mince the entrails veiy fine, and mix with them the rest of the farce; raise the pie, lay some of the farce at the bottom of it, and put the rest into the woodcocks; lay them in the pie, put between them some pounded bacon mixed with fresh butter, and seasoned with a little mace, nutmeg, and salt; then lay in a nice veal cutlet, and over that some slices of bacon cut very thin; put on the cover, and set in the oven for three or four houi's, according to the number of birds. Serve cold. For another way of making woodcock pie follow the directions given for Snipe Pie. WOODCOCK SAUCE. Pound the bones and livers of roasted woodcocks, and put them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of cullis and two of port wine ; reduce to the consistence of a sauce, strain it, and when strained add pepper, salt, and the juice of two oranges. WOODCOCKS: To Boil. First make a good strong broth or gravy by cutting 1 lb. of lean beef into small pieces, and putting thereto four quarts of watef, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, six cloves, and some whole pepper. Boil this till half reduced, strain it off, and put it into a saucepan, with some salt. Draw the birds, taking care of the trail; put the woodcocks into the gravy, cover them closely, and boil them for ten minutes. Rub small the inside of a roll, put it into a pan with some butter, and fry it till it is crisp and of a fine brown colour. When the birds are ready take about half a pint of the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the guts two spoonsful of red wine and a piece of butter rolled in flour; set them on the fire, and shake the saucepan frequently, but do not stir it with a spoon till the butter is melted ; then put in the fried bread, give the saucepan another shake, take up the birds, pour the sauce over them, and garnish with sliced lemon. WOODCOCKS : To Carve. Raise the legs and wings as in a fowl, but the head must be opened for the brain. WOODCOCKS: To Choose. Woodcocks are accounted best about a week or two after their first appearance, which is generally on the setting in of winter. If they are fat and in good condition they will feel firm and thick; the vent will be -plump and hard, and the vein of fat may be traced along the breast; but a lean bird will be the reverse, and its vent in particular will be thin. When lately killed the feet will be supple, and the head and throat clean; but the contrary signs show that the bii'd is stale. WOODCOCKS: To Dress (1). The greatest possible care should be taken, in picking these birds, to handle them as little as possible, on account of the skin being so particularly tender that, when broken, it spoils the beauty of the bird. When picked cut off the pinions at the first joint, press the legs close to the side, through which and the body place the beak of the bird ; then cross the feet, and lay a slice of bacon over the breast. Woodcocks and snipes may be dressed according to the same rules. WOODCOCKS : To Dress (2). Take \ lb. of lean beef, cut it into pieces, and put them into a saucepan, with two quarts of water, an onion stuck with cloves, two blades of mace, and some whole pepper; boil all these together till reduced to half, and then strain it off into another sauce- pan. Draw the woodcocks, and lay the trails in a plate; put the woodcocks into the gi'avy, and let them boil in it for twelve minutes. While they are boiling mince the trails and livers very small, put them into a small saucepan with a little mace, and add four or five spoonsful of the gravy the woodcocks were boiled in; then take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it into a dish placed before the fire, and put to it the trails ; have in a small saucepan half a pint of red port wine, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, set it on the fire, and shake it round till the butter is melted; then put in the bread crumbs, and shake the saucepan round; lay the woodcocks in the dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. WOODCOCKS: To Dress (3). Woodcocks should not be drawn, as the trail is, by the lovers of haut goiit, considered a bonne boiiche. Truss their legs close to their body, and run an iron skewer through each thigh close to the body ; tie them on a small bird-spit, and put them to roast before a clear fire: cut as many slices of bread as you have birds, toast or fry them a delicate brown, and lay them in the dripping-pan under the birds to catch the trails; baste them with butter, and froth them with flour; lay the toast on a hot dish, and the birds on the toast; pour some good beef gravy into the dish, and send some up in a boat. Twenty or thirty minutes will roast them. Garnish with slices of lemon. Some epicures like this bird very much under- done, and direct that a woodcock should be just introduced to the cook for her to show it the fire, and then send it up to table. WOODCOCKS : To Pot. Pluck and draw out the trails of sLx woodcocks, thrust the bills through the thighs, put the legs within each other, and the feet upon the breasts; season with mace, pepper, and salt; put them into a deep pot, with 1 lb. of butter over them,[ 569 ] WOO woo and bake them in a moderate oven. When done lay them on a dish to drain ; then put them into the proper pots, cover them with the butter in which they were baked, and lay over them some that is clarified. Snipes may be done in the same way. WOODCOCKS : To Truss. These birds, being very tender, must be picked with great care, particularly if they are not quite fresh. When picked clean cut off the pinions at the first joint, and press the breast-bone till it is flat; bring the thighs close to the pinions, put a skewer through each of the last, so as to run it quite through the thighs, body, and opposite pinion; skin the head, trim it, and, having taken out the eyes, put it on the point of the skewer with the bill close to the breast. Wood- cocks, snipes, and plovers are all trussed alike, but must not be drawn. WOODCOCKS A LA DUCHESSE. Split six woodcocks down the back, and take out all the inside to make a farce, with two pounded anchovies, half a spoonful of capers, parsley, shallots, and mushi'ooms, all chopped very small, and mixed with a good bit of butter, a little scraped bacon, the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and salt; put this into the woodcocks, sew them up closely, and braise them with a few slices of veal and one slice of ham ; cover them with thin slices of bacon; add a glass and a half of red wine, and a few spoonsful of cullis. When done strain and skim the sauce, and thicken it with butter and flour. WOODCOCKS, FARCED. Split the wood- cocks at the back, take out all the inside, and mix it with scraped bacon, chopped parsley, shallots, pepper, and salt; stuff the woodcocks with this, and sew them up; wrap them in slices of bacon, and over that paper; then put them down to roast, and serve them with what sauce or ragout you think best. WOODCOCKS IN A MINUTE. Put a brace of woodcocks into a frying-pan, with some butter, shred shallots, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper; set the pan on a fierce fire, and fry the woodcocks lightly for seven or eight minutes ; then add the juice of two lemons, half a glass of white wine, and some raspings, and leave them on the fire till the sauce has boiled up once ; then serve all up together. WOODCOCKS AU KESTAUEANT. Take a leash of woodcocks ; take the trails from two of the finest, with which mince and mix some calf's liver; stuff them, and roast all three. When the bird that has the trail in is about two-thirds done take it up, pound it, bones and all, boil it with equal quantities of stock and claret, with salt, pepper, and shallots, and when it has boiled half an hour rub it through a sieve, and serve it in the dish with the roasted woodcocks. WOODCOCKS, ROASTED. They must not be drawn ; but truss their legs close to the body, run an iron skewer through each thigh, tie them on a bird-spit, and put them down to a clear fire. Cut a slice of bread for each bird, toast or fry it brown, and lay the same under the roast to catch the trail; baste with butter, and froth with flour; lay the toast on a hot dish, and the birds on that; pour some beef gravy into the dish, and also send some up in a boat. Twenty or thirty minutes will do them. Garnish with lemon. WOODCOCKS, SALMIS OF. Take three cold roasted woodcocks ; cut them up, trim the pieces, and put all the best parts into a stew- pan ; put the remnants into a mortar, with a pinch of parsley leaves, six shallots, a bay leaf, garlic if liked, and pepper; pound these well, and put them into another stewpan, with a little melted butter; set them on the fire for about ten minutes, and then add a glasj of white wine, three ladlesful of consomme, and six of Esf)agnole; reduce to half, rub it through a bolting sieve, and pour it over the wood- cocks ; make the whole hot without boiling, and serve it with sippets in the dish. WOODCOCKS, STEWED. Slit them, but do not take out the inside; fry them in melted bacon just to brown them; then put them into a stewpan, with some salt, pepper, good gravy, and mushroom powder; add a little lemon juice, and let the whole stew gently. WOODCOCKS EN SURTOUT. Make a forcemeat with some veal, as much beef suet chopped and beaten in a mortar, an equal quan- tity of crumbs of bread, with a little beaten mace, pepper, salt, some parsley, and a few sweet herbs: mix all up with the yolk of an egg. Half roast your woodcocks; then lay some of the forcemeat round a small baking dish ; chop the trails, strew them all over the dish, and lay in the woodcocks; put into a stewpan truf- fles, morels, mushrooms, and a parboiled sweet- bread cut into pieces ; let them stew together, beat them up with a little white wine, then pour to them some good gravy, and keep stir- ring till of a proper consistence ; set it to cool, then pour it over the woodcocks, and lay the yolks of hard-boiled eggs all about; work up the remainder of the forcemeat, roll it out like paste, cover the dish with it, close the edges, wash it over with yolk of egg, and set it iu the oven. It will take half an hour to bake. Serve it to table very hot. WOODCOCKS, TUREEN OF. Take as many woodcocks as your tureen will require; take out the trails, and make them into a farce with some pounded bacon, butter, meat, herbs, and anchovies ; stuff your birds with this farce, place them in a braising-pan between slices ofWOR [ 5ro ] woo bacon and veal, and moisten -with half a glass of white wine; close the pan as tiglitly as possible, and braise them for five houi's over a slow fire. Put the woodcocks into the tureen, and strain the liquor over them. WOOL. See Flannel and Fue. WORMS. See Anthelmintics and Chings' Worm Lozenges. Thuead, or Maw-worms [Ascarides). The most certain sign of the thread-worm is an itching of the fundament and lower intestine, which is often distressing and almost intolerable. The disturbance produced here is communicated by the nerves to all parts of the body, occasioning a crowd of disorders of the bowels, the stomach, and the head, as enumerated in the following description :— The evils arising from worms are headaches, giddiness, loss of activity, frightful dreams, sleep broken off by terror and screaming, con- vulsions, feverishness, thirst, sickly paleness of the countenance, bad taste in the mouth, offen- sive breath, cough, oppressed breatliing, itching of the nostrils, pains in the stomach, sickness, nausea, squeamishness, voracious appetite, wast- ing of the flesh, frequent desire to go to stool, and itching of the fundament, particularly towards night. We may add to these symptoms the grind- ing of the teeth in sleep, the flushing of one cheek while the other is pale, nervous trembling of the lips, a lead colour under the eyes, redness of the nosti-ils, and a propensity to pick them, pimples or scabby eruptions about the mouth and face, and particularly oppressive weakness of the legs and arms. AH these symptoms are seldom found in one patient; but when there is the itching of the fundament at night you may dread many of the rest, as they will certainly follow. Your first aim must be to get rid of the slime of the bowels on which the worms feed; for, if you deprive them of their food, they must inevitably die. Take 1 oz. of good quicklime, and a pint and a half of rain water; pour the water over the lime, cover it up for an hour in a pipkin, then pour off the water into a bottle, and keep it corked for use. For a child a wine-glassful is to be taken thrice a day in a cup of camomile tea; or, to make it more palatable, in beef tea or other soup. Double this dose, or more, for a grown person. An over-dose will do no harm. Or the following :—Take 4 grains of muriate of lime, and 6 grains of extract of rhubarb; mix, and divide into two pills thrice a day. The bowels, before commencing the medicine, must be evacuated by a mild purgative, and kept open during the time of taking it, if necessary, by any laxative medicine. If you continue this for a month or six weeks the worms will disappear, and tlie health and strength will be rapidly improved. It may be necessary, perhaps, to give a little Epsom salts and senna once or twice a week, though this depends upon the state of the bowels. If the itching of the fundament is very troublesome, inject in the usual way a little of the lime water mixed with beef tea, which will kill every worm it touches. Even cold water will be effectual if thus injected. Rue, tansy, worm seed, angelica, and all hitter herbs are good against worms, but only because they strengthen the bowels. All persons labouring under worms ought-to discontinue the use of vegetable food, par- ticularly that of the raw description, as it in- creases the vigour of the worms more than animal food. In Tape-woem, the fern root in powder, as prescribed by Madame Nouffer in her celebrated remedy, has been efficaciously employed when other remedies have failed. The dose for an adult, of the male fern root, is from 1 to 3 drachms, fasting in the morning: after the second dose, a purge, consisting of 5 grains of calomel and 2-5 grains of jalap, is given. Spirit of turpentine, it appears, has recently been given with very good effect in tape-worm. The dose for a delicate female will be 1 oz.; for a robust female or small man, 1^ oz.; for a robust man, 2 ozs., taken early in the morning, in milk, when purging will be speedily produced by it, &c. Cowhage, made into an electuaiy with treacle or honey, is also given in tape-worm, and in that species of it which resembles the earth- W'orm. The dose is a table-spoonful night and morning: it should be taken before food, or im- mediately afterwards, but never on an empty stomach. After three or four doses, a purge of calomel and jalap, as here recommended, should be given. The powder and filings of tin cure all kinds of worms, and may be given to all ages and descriptions of people. The filings are prefer- able to the powder, and are quite harmless : the finest should be used—from 1 scruple to -j drachm. All cathartics are anthelmintics, or worm-destroyers, and are useful if the strength will admit of them ; e.g., calomel and jalap, gamboge and jalap. A clyster, consisting of 10 grains of cowhage to 6 ozs. of thin gruel, is recommended to be thrown up, to dislodge the maw-worms ; or 1 drachm of the extract of aloes dissolved in 10 ozs. of gruel. A few grains of jalap and calomel taken overnight, and an infusion of senna tea the next morning, will also bring them away. Harrowgate water is a safe and powerful re-WOR WO u [ 5T1 ] raedy against tlie round and maw-worms, when taken in doses sufficient to move the bowels ; and used as a clyster it will have a similar effect to the latter. WORMWOOD. Common wormwood {Arte- misia absinthium) is a native of Britain, and is frequent in almost every part of Europe, in rocky places, by roadsides, among rubbish ; and it is cultivated in the herb gardens of England for its medicinal properties. The leaves and flowering tops are bitter, and the roots are warm and aromatic ; but it is the former which are most employed. They should be gathered in July and August, when the plant is in flower, and then dried, to be had in reserve when wanted. The whole plant has a strong pene- trating odour, with an extremely bitter and aromatic taste, and these properties are ex- tracted by water or alcohol. It yields by dis- tillation a dark green volatile oil, on which the odour depends, and which has been used both externally and internally to destroy worms. The quantity of oil the plants yield depends very much on soil and season, there being instances where 10 lbs. of the plant have yielded 2 ozs. of oil, and others where 20 lbs. gave little more than 1 oz. The constituents of the plant, according to Braconnot, are—a very bitter and an almost insipid azotised matter, 26; an excessively bitter resinous substance, i'4; a green volatile oil, 0-09; chlorophyl, a trace ; albumen, 7 5 ; starch, 1 ; saline matters, 7 5 ; and lignin, .55 parts. The same chemist discovered among the saline matters an acid which he thought to be peculiar, and which he called ahsinthic acid, but it was subsequently found to be identical with succinic acid. The substance formerly called salt of %vormwood is impure carbonate of potassa, obtained by lixivi- ating the ashes of the plant. Gaventou obtained a very bitter, imperfectly crystallisable substance, which he considered as the active principle, and proposed for it the name of ahsinthin. The properties of wormwood are those of a powerful tonic and stimulant. It re-animates the en- feebled action of the stomach, whether arising from chronic leucorrhoea, or amenorrlioea depend- ent on debilitating causes; and for weakened conditions of the stomach generally it formerly enjoyed a specific reputation. Before the in- troduction of Peruvian bark it was administered in the ti-eatment of intermittents. A narcotic property is supposed to reside in the volatile oil, which occasions headache, and, when long continued, produces a disordered state of the nervous system ; and therefore, when long used or employed in large doses, the decoction is preferable to the infusion or powder. Linnajus mentions two cases wherein an essence made from the plant, and taken for a considerable time, prevented the formation of stones in the kidneys and bladder, the patients forbearing the use of wine and acids. An infusion of it given to women nursing makes the milk bitter, and it gives a bitterness to the flesh of sheep which feed upon it. The plant steeped in boiling water, and repeatedly applied to a bruise, will remove pain in a short time, and prevent the swelling and discoloration of the part. The leaves put into sour beer destroy the acescency; they resist putrefaction, and hence their use in antiseptic fomentations. The whole plant is considered vermifuge, and as such has long been a popular remedy in this country: hence the derivation of the English name. In Ger- many it is used in making beer, as a substitute for the hop; and if put into beer dui'ing summer it prevents it from turning sour. In Switzerland a liqueur called creme d'absinthe is prepai-ed with it, and also with A. mutellina and A. spicata, which is much esteemed, notwith- standing its bitter flavour, as an excellent stomachic. A syrup is also prepared from the plant, which is used in France as a stomachic and vei'mifuge. WORMWOOD CREAM. Distil in the bain-marie the zests of two oranges and -J lb. of fi'esh-gathered wormwood tops in a gallon of bi'andy, which will produce nearly half the quantity of liquor. Dissolve 4 lbs. of sugar in as many pints of filtered river water, mix this syrup with the liquor, run it through a jelly bag, and bottle it. WOUNDS. {See Cuts and Ulcers.) In a work of this nature it will be impossible that we can treat of every kind of wound to which the human body is liable; but as recent wounds arise, for the most part, from accidents, we shall direct the reader's attention to those which are most common. And here, as in other accidents, presence of mind is of essential im- portance. Were a knowledge of the situation of the blood-vessels, of the extremities, and the use of the tourniquet more general, it could not fail of proving highly beneficial to mankind. The vessels, or tubes, which proceed from the heart to convey the blood to all pai'ts of the body, are called arteries. From the power with which the heart propels the blood through this system of vessels it happens that, when- ever they are wounded, the blood flows rapidly and in jerks fi'om the wounded part. They divide, to be distributed to parts from the trunk, like the branches of a tree from the body ; so that, on pressing together the sides of any trunk, the flow of blood into the branches, beyond the compressed part, is prevented. The vessels which return the blood to the heart are named veins. In these the blood0 U f 572 1 W 0 U receives but little of the impelling force of the heart, and therefore it moves much more slowly than in- the arteries; and, in consequence, wounds of the veins are not of much im- portance : a small degree of resistance by a finger, or some folded linen, applied to the wounded part, will generally stop the bleeding. Hence, if a bandage or ligature be made sufficiently tight around any limb, the flow of blood into all the parts below must be prevented. But to render this certain the pressure must be very great in the whole cir- cumference of the limb ; and in some cases, from the situation of the arteries between bones, the effect cannot be obtained. To perform this process successfully in cases of wounds and operations, and at the same time to prevent the consequences of an exceedingl}' strong general pressure, surgeons have fixed on certain parts ot the trunks of arteries before their ramifica- tions for the application of a pad, or compress. The pulse is the beating or distendhig of an artery from blood propelled into it by the heart. The spaces of time between the pulsations are periods when the heart itself is filling with blood returned to it by the veins. Now, it is evident that there can be no pulsation when the flow of blood and pulsation of an artery are prevented. Where, then, the pulse can be con- veniently felt, as at the wrist, the ceasing of it, from a pressure being made upon the trunk above, will prove that the pressure is made effectually. To illustrate this let a friend feel the pulse in your wrist; then apply two or three fingers in the little pit immediately below the collar-bone, close to the shoulder. Press sti'ongly, and the pul e will cease, because the artery which supplies the upper extremity passes under the collar-bone, over the first and second ribs along this part, and will now be pressed against one of these ribs. Remove the fingers and again apply them, and the pulse will be found to alternate with the pressure. Suppose, then, a wound to be received, an artery of considerable size to be cut or torn, and a copious bleeding in consequence to happen in any part of the arm, below the place just described : it is manifest that by making a pressure with the fingers in the manner de- scribed, or assisted by a pad between the fingers and the part, the bleeding would instantly cease. The arteries of the upper extremities, or arms, proceed from the trunk after this manner: the trunk passes into the armpit, deeply situated ; it then proceeds along the side of the arm, next the body, obliquely towards the fore part of the elbow-joint, or bend, and here divides into three branches. In this course to its division it lies near the bone, and may therefore be successfully compressed. The distribution of the vessels of the lower extremities is in this way: the artery passes the cavity of the belly to the groin, where, in thin persons, the pulsation of it may be felt. At this place, in case of wound and effusion of blood very high in the thigh, effectual com- pression may be made by some fingers pressed veiy strongly in the manner desci'ibed for compression below the collar-bone, although a strong pad or other firm body, interposed between the fingers and the parts, will be better. From the groin the artery proceeds in an oblique direction downwards and inwards, and at about the middle of the inside of the thigh it lies close to the bone. This is the most favourable part for making a pressure upon it, because of the resistance of the thigh- bone behind. And when there are opportunities of choice, as in cases of wounds or operations helow this part, this is the place which surgeons fix on for the application of the compressing body: it therefore deserves particular attention. The course of the vessel is then downwards and backwards to the ham, in the hollow of which, against the lower flat end of the thigh- bone, compression may again be very success- fully made in all cases of wounds or operations below the knee-joint. But heijond this part compression must not be depended on ; for, im- mediately below the joint, the artery divides, like that of the upper extremity, into three vessels, which are situated between the bones of the leg. Now, suppose a wound to have happened by a penknife, or other thing, in the thigh, leg, or arm, and a large artery being punctured, a violent bleeding should ensue. You have no tourniquet, but you clearly understand what has been taught on this subject. How would you act ? Undoubtedly you would instantly pull off your garter, or take the first piece of string or cord you could find, roll up your handkerchief hardly, and lay it on the trunk of the artery above the wounded part; pass the garter or cord over the handkerchief round the limb ; tie a knot, leaving a proper space; and then twist the ligature by a piece of stick or cane, or any other firm body which you could procure. It sometimes happens that, after bleeding in the arm by the regular surgeon, the blood will continue to flow. In such accidents the simple principle, with which the mind should be fully possessed, is, that the blood must cease to flow if the orifice be closed. To accomplish this let the thumb be slid on to the orifice so as to bring its sides together, and to press it with a moderate foi'ce. The flow of blood will now be stopped; a little bolster of linen, folded by Bome bystander, must be carefully introducedwou WOU [ 573 ] between the orifice and the thumb; over this must be placed another compress, of sufficient thickness to fill up the hollow of the bend of the arm, confining the whole with a ribbon or tape, passed over the compress, and above and below the elbow, in the form of a figure of eight, finishing with a knot over the compress. The preceding directions are, of course, ap- plicable to the prevention of the great elfusiou of blood from innumerable kinds of wounds; the danger, however, under such circumstances, depends also on the part which is injured, and on the constitution of the patient. If the heart, any of the large internal blood-vessels, the spinal marrow, or the brain be wounded, or when any- large nerves, ligaments, or tendons are materially injured, the danger is always imminent, and a skilful surgeon should by all means be con- sulted ; indeed, the safest course is always to obtain the best medical attendance. We have mentioned, under our article Blood-letting, our opinion of this operation, and by whom it ought to be performed; and doubtless, in wounds and bruises from accidents, when the effusion of blood is not great, the absti'action of a few ounces of this fluid may be very useful to guard against any inflammation; or, if this should not be adopted, a dose of opening medicine, such as Epsom or Glauber's salts, will be generally necessaiy, unless the great loss of blood and weakness of the patient should forbid. The applications to wounds must depend in some degree iipon their nature. In simple wounds from keen instruments, in general, nothing more is necessary than a moderate pressure, or a bandage of dry lint or calico, upon the part, taking care, of course, in covering it from the external air, that no extraneous bodies remain in it; for it sometimes happens that such bodies, however small, prevent their healing. If a considerable laceration of flesh should occur it will be sometimes necessary to sew it up, but this is most appropriately done by the sui'geon ; or gold-beater's skin, or com- mon sticking plaster, instead of lint, may be sometimes advantageously applied. When tlie bleeding does not readily cease by moderate pressure of lint, it may be dipped in the com- pound tincture of benjamin; or dusting the part with fine flour, or gum arable in fine powder, may perhaps answer as well. It is scai'cely necessaiy to observe that all foreign bodies, such as iron, lead, splinters of wood, glass, &c., should, if possible, be speedily removed or extracted from wounded parts ; but, if this cannot be done, the part may be exposed to the steam of hot w-ater; or an emollient poultice should be applied, in order to induce early suppuration, and of course an ejection of the ofi'ending body; or it may be, and often should be, extracted at once by the skilful surgeon. It is a mistake to suppose that ointments are at all necessary to be applied to recent wounds : in general, in these, if the air be excluded, nature will eff'ectuate the cure best by being left alone. But if swelling, or other untoward symptoms come on, the bandages must be loosened; and should all inflammatoiy symp- toms have subsided, and the wound show no disposition to heal, it must then be treated as an ulcer, and perhaps yellow basilicon, tar ointment, with or without calomel, or red precipitate, according to circumstances, may be necessary; and sometimes, where there is considerable swelling and pain, a bread-and-milk poultice. The diet in all serious accidents of this kind should be wholly vegetable for some daj's, till all danger from any inflammatory diathesis has subsided. Gruel, barley water, panada, and acidulous drinks should form the chief aliment. Animal food, or broths made from it, should be totally prohibited. In gun-shot wounds whatever is of a hot or spirituous nature is extremely injurious on these occasions, and what no wounded part can in any degree bear. The wound may be dressed with pledgets of any emollient oint- ment, the whole being covered with a common poultice; or, in some cases, preparations of lead may be used. An opiate may also be necessary ; and the part aff"ected being placed in the easiest and most convenient posture, the patient should be laid to rest. The formation of matter in every contused wound is an object of the first importance, for till this takes place there is every reason to suspect that gangrene may happen. To hasten suppuration the warm poultices should be frequently re- newed, and they should be continued till the tension and swelling are removed, and till the sore has acquired a red, healthy, granulated appearance, when it is to be treated as a common ulcer. Persons wounded by gunpowder, especially in the face, should not attempt to extract such pai'ticles of the powder as have penetrated through the skin, because they are apt to break and sink deeper into the muscular fibres. The best application is Goulard's water, or a liniment composed of linseed oil and lime water. See Burns and Scalds. In the treatment of all wounds, rest and an easy posture of the wounded part are absolutely necessary; and where there is considerable prostration of strength, notwithstanding what we have said above, animal food and other stimulants will also be necessaiy. For the treatment of wounds which are[ 574 ] YEA wou l)ecoTne gangrenous see Gangrene and Morti- riCATtON. As a conclusion on the subject of wounds from accidents, we add the following observa- tions. They are, indeed, equally appropriate to our articles Bruises and Fracture, but they are certainly not less so here. If in consequence of a fall from some high ]ilace, or by any other accident, a considerable degree of injury appears to have been received, the sufferer being unable, in consequence of the deprivation of his senses, to point out the injured part, some consideration and attention are necessary befoi'e any attempts are made even to raise him from the ground. Should the fi'acture of one of the bones, either of the upper or lower extremity, have happened, and not be suspected by the assistants, their exer- tions to raise him and to place him on his feet might force the fractured ends of the hone through the soft parts, and convert a merely simple fracture into a very dangerous and compound one. The limbs, therefore, with a \ iew to this circumstance, should be cai'efully examined; but even if they appear to have suffered no material injury, yet the patient should not be precipitately raised until some- tiiing be provided on which he may be placed. As it will be fair to conclude, from the depriva- tion of his senses, that the brain may have sustained some injury, great care should be taken that whilst he is being conveyed to his npartment, and whilst lying on the bed, the head be kept moderately I'aised; and on no account whatever should any spirituous drinks he given him. Sliould a leg or thigh be broken, the aid and directions of a surgeon should, if possible, be obtained for his removal; but if this cannot be the case the following rules should be ob- served :—First, if any blood-vessel be wounded, and a considerable effusion of blood has taken place, this must, if possible, be further pre- vented by some of the means mentioned above, and that he be not stirred until a proper vehicle is procured on which he can be placed. This, if nothing more proper can be had, may be a door, a shutter, or two or three planks well secured together. To place him on this, two persons may raise him by means of a sheet slid under his hips, whilst one or two raise him by the shoulders, one person raising the sound leg, and one, the most intelligent of his friends, conducting the fractured limb, in moving which great care must be taken that the divided pieces of the bone be kept as much as possible in the same line, lest tlie fractured ends pierce through the soft parts. If a pillow can be obtained the broken limb should be placed on it, and, if it appear to he preferable, previously also to his being raised. When placed on the litter he should be a little inclined to the same side as the injured limb, which, if circumstances will admit, should also be laid on the side, and with the knee a little bent. The best mode of conveyance is undoubtedly by two or four men, in the manner in which a sedan chair is carried. A mattress, or boards, if a mattress cannot be had, should be laid under the bed upon which the patient is placed. If the arm be broken between the elbow and the wrist, the arm should be bent at the elbow, raising the palm of the hand to the breast, with the fiugers moderately bent, the thumb being above, and the little finger below. In this state it may be retained by a sling or handkerchief, supporting it from the elbow to the fingers' ends. When the arm is fractured between tlie wrist and the shoulder, the fore arm may be placed in the same position as already described ; but the sling, instead of supporting the whole length of the arm, should only support the hand, which should be raised higher than in the former case, the elbow being allowed to sink; its motion, however, being prevented, by a handkerchief passed moderately tight round the trunk, including the fractured arm. WRISTBAND. See Shirt-making. WRITING OBLITERATED. (See Ink, Writing, Black ) If on parchment dip it into a vessel of fresh-drawn spring water, and let it remain about a minute; then take it out and press it between two sheets of blotting paper to prevent its crumpling. When it is nearly dry examine it, and if the writing is not restored repeat the operation two or three times. If the fading is only the effect of time, you will by this means restore the writing to its pristine state ; but if the ink has been i-e- moved by any chemical process, of course it cannot be restored. Y YEAST (1). Beer yeast, which is the best for bread, should be strained through a hair sieve, and two or three quarts of spring v/ater poured over it. When it has stood for twenty- four hours the water should be poured off, and the yeast will then be found at the bottom of the vessel quite thick. To preserve that which is left over the baking, it should be put in a bottle, corked tightly, and put into a cold place. In cold weather it should continue good for a fortnight, but fresh yeast is always preferable. When it does not appear sufficiently strong, honey or brown sugar may be mixed with it in the proportion of a tea-spoonful to half a pint.YEA YEA- [ 575 ] YEAST (2). Thicken two quarts of water ■with fine flour, boil it half an hour, and sweeten it with i lb. of sugar. When cold add to it four spoonsful of fresh yeast in a jug, shake well together, and let it stand one day to ferment before the fire without covering it. A thin liquor will rise on the top, which must be poui'ed off: shake the remainder and cork it up for use. Take four spoonsful of the old yeast to ferment the next quantity you want to make. To remove the bitterness of the yeast, put some bran into a sieve, and pour the yeast through it, mixed with a little warm water. YEAST, BAKERS'. Boil 2 ozs. of hops in four quarts of water one hour, adding more water as it decreases, carefully stirring it all the time, and taking care that it does not boil over; strain the liquor, and mix with it 2 lbs. of malt; cover it, and let it stand for eight hours, or until it is milkwarm, and then stir in half a pint of good yeast. When mixed well together let it work for ten hours, and then strain it through a hair sieve. YEAST, BRAN. Boil for ten minutes in two quarts of water one pint of bran and a small handful of hops; strain through a sieve, and when milkwarm add three or four table- spoonsful of beer yeast, and tvvo of brown sugar or treacle ; put it into a wooden stoup or jug, cover it, and place it before the fire to ferment. It may be bottled, tightly corked, and kept in a cool place. YEAST DUMPLINGS. Make a very light dough with yeast the same as for bread, but ■with milk used instead of water; add salt, and set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, for half an hour to rise. In the meantime set on the fire a large saucepan of hot water, and as soon fis it boils roll up the dough into small balls, and put them into the boiling water ; keep them continually boiling for ten minutes, then take them out, and serve them immediately, with wine sauce over them. To ascertain whether they are sufficiently boiled stick a fork into one, and if it comes out clean it is done enough. Some think the best manner of eating them is by dividing them from the top with two forks, as they become heavy by their own steam, and cat them immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. YEAST, HARD. Boil 3 ozs. of hops in six quarts of water till only two quarts remain, and stir in, while boiling hot, wheat or rye meal till it is as thick as batter. When it is about milk- warm add half a pint of good yeast, and let it stand till it is very light, generally about three hours; then work in sifted Indian meal till it is a stiff dough, roll it out on a board, and cut it into oblong cakes about three inches by two and a half thick; lay these cakes on a smooth board, over which a little Hour has been dusted, prick them with a fork, and place them in a clean dry I'oom, where the sun and air may be freely admitted. Turn them every day. They will dry in a fortnight unless the weather be damp. When the cakes are perfectly dry put them in a coarse cotton bag, and hang it up in a cool dry place. If rightly prepared these cakes will keep all the year. Tvvo cakes will make yeast enough for a peck of flour. Break them into a pint of lukewarm water, and stir in a table-spoonful of flour, the. evening before you bake. Set the mixture where it can be kept moderately warm. In the morning it will be fit for use. YEAST, MILK. Take a pint of new milk, a tea-spoonful of fine salt, and a large spoonful of flour; stir these well together; set the mix- ture by the fire, and keep it just lukewarm : it will be fit for use in an hour. Twice the quantity of common yeast is necessary. It will not keep long. Bread made of yeast dries very soon ; but in summer it is sometimes convenient to make this kind when yeast is needed sud- denly. See Milk Yeast. YEAST, POTATO. Boil some good mealy potatoes; peel and weigh them while hot, bruise them finel}'', mix them quickly with boiling water, allowing one quart to each pound, and rub them through a hair sieve ; then add honey or brown sugar in the proportion of 1 oz. to each quart of water; boil to the consistence of batter, and when nearly cold add a large table- spoonful of good yeast to every quart of water; cover it with a cloth to rise, and the following day it will be ready for use. Keep a bottle of it, which may be used instead of beer yeast for, the next making, first pouring off the thin liquid that is on the top. It must be made with fresh beer yeast every two or three months. Double, the quantity of this as beer yeast is required to make bread light. See Potato Yeast. YEAST POWDERS. Get at a druggist's 1 lb. of supercarbonate of soda and f lb. of tartaric acid: both these articles must be of the very best qualit3^ Pi'epare an equal number of square blue and white papers, nicely cut. To be very accurate weigh the articles alternately. In every blue paper put 100 grains of super- carbonate of soda, and in each white paper 90 grains of tartaric acid, and then fold tiiem up so as to secure their contents. If you have no scales and weights you may guess tolerably well at the proportion of the articles by measuring a tea-spoonful of soda for each blue paper, and three quarters of a spoonful of the acid for each white paper. Put them into boxes, and keep them in a dry place. The contents of one blue paper and one white paper are considered as one yeast powder.TEL [ 576 ] ZE S Half the contents of each paper are called half a yeast powder. Yeast powders of themselves have not suffi- cient power to raise bread or cakes so as to make them light enough to be wholesome. They should be only employed when real yeast or eggs are to be used; then they add greatly to the lightness of the cake. They are also an improvement to batter puddings. They must always be added at the last. To use them, dissolve first the soda in a wine- glassful and a half of milk or lukewarm water, and when thoroughly melted stir it into the batter; then melt in another cup the acid, with a similar quantity of milk or water, and stir in at the last. These powders entirely destroy the flavour of lemon or orange juice; but they will convert sour milk into sweet. A yeast powder added to buckwheat batter that has already been raised by the real yeast will render it sur- passingly light. One blue and one white powder will suffice for two quarts of batter. YELLOW FEVER. In the West Indies, and in other tropical situations, also in the wanner regions of America, together with symp- toms somewhat resembling those of typhus fever, there is, in urgent cases, commonly on the third day, a yellow tinge about the eyes, temples, and mouth. This, which is attended with black vomiting, gradually extends over the whole body. The inhabitants of the colder re- gions, on their arrival, unaccustomed to the climate, are those whom the affection more peculiarly attacks. Yellow fever is derived from causes corre- spondent with those of the remittent kind. The danger is extreme w4ien the yellow tinge com- mences. This growing of a deeper shade, the speech faltering, trembling, livid spots on the skin, blood flowing from various parts of the body, starting of the tendons, hiccups, and coldness of the extremities, are forerunners of a fatal termination. Though the liver has been occasionally found much diminished, and the gall-bladder to con- tain but a small portion of bile, the appearances on dissection, with the exception of glandular tumours and carbuncles, are, in general, similar to those of malignant fevers. YELLOW GLAZE. Make a glaze with J lb. of fine sugar in powder, and the white of an egg, to which add by degrees as much lemon juice as may be necessary when sufficiently beaten up, and the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be; add to it a small quantity of the infusion of safi'ron strained, and the yellow rinds of one or two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scraped off, and powdered : take care, however, not to put too much of the latter, lest the glaze should be bitter. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Mix four spoonsful of flour with a pint of milk and one egg well beaten, add a spoonful of salt and a little ginger grated, butter the pan, and put in the mixture. When browned by baking under the meat turn the other side upwards, that it may be browned also. It should be made in a square pan, and served to table cut in pieces, neatly arranged upon a dish. The richness of the pudding is increased according to the number of eggs you may choose to put in. YORKSHIRE CAKES. See Cakes, Yobk- SHIKE. z. ZEST, a term of art used by confectioners, is the peel of oranges or citron, cut from top to bottom in small slips, or zests, as thin as possible. THE EKD.PREFACE. It is a subject for surprise at this time, when the public attention is so strongly directed to what is useful, that, previously to this publication, there was no comprehensive work of easy reference which the head of a family could turn to with a certainty of finding the directions for what was required, or for remedying what was amiss in the household economy. To supply this deficiency is the object of the present Work; and in it will be found gathered together, from the best practised authorities, as well as from those well acquainted with science, reliable information upon all domestic requirements, whether it be for cooking a potato, binding up a cut finger, baking a loaf, giving medicine to the sick, brewing a barrel of beer, curing a smoking chimney, mending a broken glass, removing an ink-stain, cutting out a shirt, managing servants, or providing for parties. If we do not teach how to earn, we do that which is equally important—we show how to save. Not a class in all British society but will find in our pages suggestions available either for the management of their establishments, the preparation of their food, or the cure of their bodily derangements. We believe that we have accumulated, for ready reference, knowledge that may be acceptable to the daughters and wives of England—those without whose aid man may labour, but not thrive—may have a house, but not a home; for, where such helpmates are not, the quiet untiring pleasures of one's own fireside—the real meaning of " British comfort"—are never known. We think that our pages will aid to remind those help- mates of what may be done for the best beneath their roof-tree, both in health and in sickness—both for ornament and for use; and though, generally, they may be too well skilled in housewifery for us to impart to them great as well as good suggestions, yet we shall not be unrewarded if we are useful in many trifles : for he has not had much ex- perience of life who has not learned that small savings, small comforts,' and small pleasures, make up the fulness and the overflowing of a successful and happy existence. In short, the title of the Work is its best index. It is A Household Encyclopaedia, alphabetically arranged; so that under each name, whether it be a cabbage or a carpet, under that name will be found all that the householder is likely to need for its in-door management. The information given may be relied upon without hesitation, because the Editors plfedge themselves that the recipes have all been proved; and the explanations, where explanations are needed, are from men of science, whose attention has been long directed to such subjects.iV I.... ■S>,:;:&oi.^^^^