DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. 45 2. The membranous portion of the urethra extends from the apex of the prostate gland to the bulb ; its length is about one inch, though, as has been mentioned previously, it appears to be less if measured upon its inferior surface, in consequence of the depending position of the bulb of the urethra. I he membranous portion is the narrowest part of the urethra, its diameter seldom exceeding three or four lines. Its direction is slightly curved, the centre of the curvature being at the point where it passes through the opening in the triangular ligament of the urethra, the concavity being directed upwards. 3. The spongy portion is the longest of the divisions of the ure- thra, for it extends from the orifice of the urethra to the anterior surface of the triangular ligament, a distance of six or seven inches : placed in the greater part of its extent underneath the corpora cavernosa of the penis, it presents two remarkable en- largements at each extremity ; the anterior of which forms the glans penis, the posterior the bulb of the urethra. The bulb of the urethra occupies the greater part of the space which exists below the crura of the penis ; and is formed mainly by a large quantity of erectile tissue, which chiefly abounds upon the inferior surface of the canal. The bulb is directed obliquely upwards and forwards, and is surrounded by the fibres of the accelerator urinse muscle. It is continuous anteriorly with the spongy body of the urethra. Internally, the urethra presents a remarkable dilatation opposite the bulb, which is chiefly observable upon the inferior surface of the ca- nal ; this dilatation has received the name of the sinus of the bulb, and forms one of the principal obstacles to the introduc- tion of the catheter. According to most writers, the usual situation of stricture of the urethra is between the bulb and the commencement of the membranous portion. Where the urethra passes through the glans penis, it presents a considerable dilatation—the fossa navicularis ; in the under surface of which is a large lacuna — the lacuna magna, which will frequently admit the point of a small catheter. The external orifice of the urethra is, perhaps, the narrowest part of the canal, and certainly the least dilatable; which is owing to a layer of firm ccllulo-fibrous tissue being placed around it, underneath the mucous membrane. Structure of the urethra.—The internal surface of the