INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. 70 prevent the wound from closing too quickly. This operation should only be practised when the prostate gland is not very much enlarged. Of cutting down upon the urethra behind the stricture. Some surgeons, in cases of complete retention of urine from stricture of the urethra, prefer making an incision in the peri- neum, and opening the urethra where it is dilated behind the stricture, to the operation of puncturing the bladder. For this purpose an incision is made in the course of the raphe of the perineum, and is carried deeply down between the bulb and the rectum to the membranous part of the urethra. The urethra is exposed and opened where it is dilated, and the urine is evacuated through the wound, or by a gum catheter intro- duced by the incision into the bladder. In a very fat subject, or in one in whom the structures of the perinseum have become altered and condensed from previous disease, such as fistula in pe- rinaeo, abscesses, &c. this operation is by no means an easy one. Puncture of the bladder above the pubis.—An incision, about two inches in length, is made through the integuments, imme- diately above the pubes, in the course of the linea alba. This incision is to be carried sufficiently deep between the edges of the recti and pyramidales muscles, to expose the anterior surface of the distended bladder where it is uncovered bv the peritonseum. A trocar is then thrust obliquely downwards and backwards into the cavity of the bladder. After the trocar has been withdrawn, and the urine has been evacuated, the cannula should be fixed in the bladder until the inflammatory action following the opera- tion has glued together the cells of the surrounding tissues, as the chief danger to be guarded against after the per- formance of this operation, is the escape of the urine into the subserous cellular tissue. After this time the cannula may be changed for a piece of gum catheter of appropriate length and thickness. THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. Lithotomy still continues to remain, notwithstanding all the endeavours that have been made to improve it, one of the most difficult and dangerous of the operations of surgery.