DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. 31 A large number of veins run in tlie substance of the sheath which the pelvic fascia furnishes to the prostate gland; these veins are called the pi'ostatic plexus. It is not very unfre- quent to find small calcareous concretions, or phebolites, as they are termed, in the interior of these veins.* There are several cases recorded where the division of these veins, in the operation of lithotomy performed upon old people, has been followed by a considerable haemorrhage ; they are some- times also the scat of phebitis, which indeed, according to many of the French writers of the present day, is to be regarded as one of the principal causes of death after that operation. Where the pelvic fascia is traversed by the rectum, it divides into two layers also, one of which ascends, and the other de- scends, upon the muscular fibres of the intestine. It is in this manner that the pelvic fascia separates the bladder, the mem- branous portion of the urethra, with the prostate gland and the vesiculm seminales, from the horizontal portion of the rectum, upon which they are supported. If this part of the pelvic fascia be now removed, the vesiculse seminales and the vasa deferentia may be shown as they lie in the interval between the convex surfaces of the base of the bladder and the rectum. The pelvic fascia is in relation superiorly with the peri- tonaeum and the subserous cellular tissue ; inferiorly, or by its external surface, vrith the obturator fascia, the fibres of the levatores ani, pyriformes and coccygei muscles, as well as the several structures to which, as has been already mentioned, it furnishes separate investments. The fascia also serves to strengthen this part of the walls of the abdomen, and to prevent the more frequent occurrence of hernia either in the perinseal re- gion, or by the sacro-sciatic and thyroid openings ; moreover, it assists in maintaining the viscera of the pelvis in their respective situations. The strongest part of the fascia is at the point where it is attached to the base of the prostate gland and the neclt of the bladder; here it is considered by many to form the chief ob- stacle to the occurrence of infiltration of urine into the cellular * “The formation of phlebolites is a remarkable example of the gradual conversion of the fibrine of the blood in the veins into isolated, round, or ovoid bodies of a strong hardness.”—Dr. Cafswell’s Pathol. Anat. art. Analogous tissues.