DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 7 far as to the coccyx, upon which it may terminate. Another in- cision must be made across from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other, passing in front of the anus ; the extremities of this last cut should be extended for some distance upon the thighs. These incisions should not be made deeper than is necessary for the dissection of the shin from the subjacent structures. Laying hold of the inner angles of the flaps which have been thus marked out, raise them for a considerable distance on each side, and then reflect them upon the thighs and buttocks, where they may be fixed by means of pins or hooks. While raising the two posterior flaps, the edge of the scalpel must be carried round the anus in the direction of the fibres of the ex- ternal sphincter muscle, which, being immediately underneath the skin, is at once exposed to view. The fascia lata of the thighs may be displayed a little distance upon each side by removing the thin layer of adipose tissue which covers its exter- nal surface, and conceals its attachments to the external margins of the tuberosities and branches of the ischia and ossa pubis. While this is being done, some small nerves, which pierce the fascia lata a little in front of the lower edges of the great gluteal muscles, will be found ; and which, after dividing into several smaller filaments, pass inwards towards the mesial line, supply- ing the integuments of the perinseal region. These nerves are branches of the posterior and internal cutaneous divisions of the small sciatic nerves. More posteriorly, a part of the inferior border of the large gluteal muscles may be dissected, and their attachment to the lateral borders of the coccygeal bones and posterior sacro-sciatic ligaments shown. Between the external margin of the sphincter of the anus and the borders of the tuberosities of the ischia, a large quantity of adipose substance will be observed, which must be next removed in order that the fibres of the levator ani muscles may be exposed, as they descend from the sides of the pelvis towards the extremity of the rectum.* * in removing the masses of fat which fill up on each side the space between the anus and the tuberosities of the ischia, the knife should not be carried farther forwards than a line extended across the perimeum in front of the anus, in order to avoid doing any injury to the superficial fascia where it passes upwards to unite, behind the transverse muscles of the periuaeum, with the deep fascia or triangular ligament of the urethra.