DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. 14 the ramus of the ischium and root of the penis. The muscle on each side arises from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium by fleshy and tendinous fibres, and, after passing'for- wards and upwards about three inches, is inserted into the sides of the corpus cavcrnosum by two delicate processes, of which the external one is the longest. The muscle is fleshy in its struc- ture, except at its origin and insertions, where it is slightly ten- dinous. Relations—interiorly and externally, with the superfi- cial fascia of the perinseum; superiorly, with the ramus of the ischium and the crus of the penis, into which it is inserted; internally, with the accelerator urinse, from which it is separated by a little cellular tissue and the superficialis peri nasi artery. Action—to assist in the erection of the penis. The transversus perinai is a small triangular-shaped muscle, extending across the middle of the perinseal space. The fibres of this- muscle are attached by their broad extremity to the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium above the attach- ment of the erector penis, and they are inserted into the cen- tral tendinous point of the perinseum, where they are united with the fibres of the muscle of the opposite side, and with some of those belonging to the accelerator urinse and the exter- nal sphincter of the anus. The muscle is fleshy, except at its in- sertion, which is tendinous. Relations—by its posterior and in- ferior surface, with the superficial fascia ; and superiorly, with the triangular ligament of the urethra : the superficial artery of the perinseum crosses the muscle near its origin, and, as it does so, gives off the transverse artery which runs along the posterior border of the muscle. These muscles are sometimes absent altogether, and then their place is frequently supplied by some muscular fibres which run obliquely forwards and join the accelerator urinse ; at other times one of these muscles only is to be found. When these muscles are accompanied by another set of fibres following nearly the same direction, the smaller and most anterior set are called m. transversalis alter. Use—to fix the central point of the perinseum, and thus facilitate the action of the sphincter ani and accelerator urinse. The muscle of the left side, with its accompanying artery and nerve, is cut across in the lateral operation of lithotomy ; in the bilateral operation the muscle of each side is divided.