68 INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. spot than is natural, as is the case in stricture of the urethra, false passages are frequently made in front of the diseased part. It requires the exercise of much less force than is commonly supposed to produce a false passage in the urethra. A peculiar grating sensation is communicated to the touch as soon as a catheter leaves the urethral canal, or enters a false passage that has been already made. In cases of enlarged prostate, a false passage is not unfrequently made through the diseased mass. Some skilful surgeons have considered the formation of a new passage to be justifiable when the prostate gland is so much enlarged as to alter and distort the course of the urethra, where it traverses the gland, to such a degree that no instrument can be made to pass along it into the bladder. In several cases this practice of establishing a new route for the urine appears to have been attended with no bad results.* The reason why false passages are so frequently made with- out any extravasation of urine occurring afterwards, is doubtless that the mine does not easily find an entrance, on account of their oblique direction from before backwards, which is the reverse of that of the stream of urine. Extravasation of urine may occur in consequence of a rupture of the bladder, or of the urethra: when the bladder is ruptured, the laceration is commonly situated in that por- tion of its surface which is covered by the peritonaeum, and death is the certain result from the peritonitis which ensues. In other instances the bladder is torn either on the sides or at its base, and then the urine is extravasated into the sub- serous cellular tissue of the abdomen. In such cases, also, death generally soon follows the accident. If the rupture occurs in some part of the urethra, which is posterior to the bulb, and in front of the triangular ligament, the urine escapes into the cellular tissue which separates the muscles of the penis from the superficial fascia of the perinseum. The urine as it escapes is prevented from diffusing itself backwards towards the anus by the attachments of the superficial fascia * It is said that the celebrated physician Astruc was thus treated by Lafaye, and lived a considerable time afterwards. f Sir Charles Bell, who has offered this explanation in his excellent trea- tise upon the diseases of the urethra, illustrates it by contrasting the differ- ence in this respect between a rupture of the urethra in front of a stricture, and one which takes place behind it.—Hospital Reports, by Sir C. Bell, p. 98.