THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 77 curve of the staff. After assuring himself, by a slight movement backwards and forwards of the instrument, that the point is fairly lodged in the groove, he pushes it onwards into the bladder, lowering at the same time both the handle of the staff and the litliotome. As soon as the lithotome has been introduced into the bladder, its point is to be disengaged from the staff, which is now withdrawn. The lithotome is then turned round, so that its concave surface is directed inferiorly towards the rec- tum ; after which it is to be drawn out (the blades being ex- panded by pressing on their handle) slowly and steadily, following the direction of the external incisions. As soon as the lithotome has been withdrawn, the fore-finger of the left hand is to be introduced by the wound into the bladder, to ascertain the situation and figure of the calculus, and to serve as a conductor to the forceps, which are to be carried, their blades being closed, along its upper surface. The staff is removed when the forefinger has been introduced into the bladder. The stone is then laid hold of, and extracted in the usual manner. ' By this operation a much larger incision may be made in the prostate gland and neck of the bladder than in the lateral operation, without injury to the base of the gland, and the reflection of the pelvic fascia. It is alleged, also, by those who advocate the practice of this operation, that the risk of lisemor- rhage is diminished, as well as of injury to the seminal ducts. Except in France, this operation has not been vciy exten- sively adopted. The recto-vesical operation.—Two methods of perfoiming this operation have been proposed and practised: in one, the membranous portion of the urethra, and the prostate gland, with a small portion of the anterior wall of the rectum, are divided ; while, in the second, these structures, with a portion of the base of the bladder, are cut. • It has been stated, that Dupuytren operated in this manner upon twenty- six cases in succession, in the Hotel Dieu at Paris, without losing one; and that, out of seventy operations that he performed, only six terminated fatally. However this may be, MM. Sanson and Begin, the editors of Dupuytren’s posthumous work, give a table by which they show the mortality after die bilateral operation to have been as high as one in four and a half.—Vide Operation de la Pierre d’aprhs une mdthode nouvelle par le Baron Dupuytren; ouvrage termini et public par MM. Sanson et Begin: folio, 1836, p. 12.