60 MORBID CHANGES IN THE RECTUM. of irritation from discharges of different kinds. Thus they arc very frequently met with in women who have suffered long from gonorrhoea. In many instances verrucse around the anus are not to be considered as being produced in consequence of a constitutional venereal taint, while in others it can hardly be doubted that they are as much so as any other secondary symptom.* Fistula in ano.—The majority of abscesses that form in the vicinity of the anus, when allowed to run their course unin- terrupted, degenerate, after the discharge of their contents, into an indolent sinus, which extends to a variable distance alongside of the bowel. When the fistulous tract opens only externally, it is called a blind external fistula ; and, on the contrary, when the sinus opens into the interior of the rectum, without having any aperture upon the surface, it is named a blind internal fistula. Sometimes the sinus opens by one extremity into the rectum, and by the other upon the skin ; this constitutes a complete fistula. The operation for the cure of this disease consists in dividing the structures which intervene between the fistula and the cavity of the rectum, including the sphincter muscles, the action of which being thus suspended for a time, the surfaces of the wound remain at rest and heal by granulation. Prolapsus ani usually consists in the protrusion through the anus of the relaxed mucous membrane of the rectum; but there are other conditions of the bowel which are sometimes included under this term, and in one of these the upper part of the intestine descends into the lower, resembling an intus- susception : the mucous, muscular,and peritonseal coats of the gut form part of the protruded mass, which has been known to have been cut off, and the patient to lose his life in consequence of the opening thus made into the abdominal cavity.-f* * M. Ricord, the surgeon of the Hopital des Veneriens at Paris, consi- ders that the verrucas around the anus, which sometimes follow a chancre, are sufficient evidences of the constitution having become affected by the venereal virus. They are frequently accompanied by painful ulcerations in the clefts between the toes. The best treatment consists in the local application of the solid nitrate of silver. f See a Treatise on the Diseases of the Urethra, Vesica Urinaria, Pro- state, and Rectum, by Sir Charles Bell, Loud. 1822, description of plate v.