DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. 43 bladder may be followed for a considerable distance upon the ureters. Occasionally there are observed two ureters upon one side, which sometimes unite with one another before their ter- mination. Urinary calculi, as they descend from the kidney to the bladder, frequently excite considerable pain and uneasiness in the upper part of the thigh and testicle, according to the de- gree of pressure which they exercise upon the nerves of the lum- bar and spermatic plexuses as they are crossing over them. Calculi are sometimes arrested at the vesical orifice of the ureter, where they project partially into the bladder ; and in this situation may attain a considerable size, and cause some de- lay and difficulty in their extraction, should the operation of lithotomy be performed under such circumstances. Where a considerable obstruction has existed for any length of time to the evacuation of the urine, as in cases of old and close strictures of the urethra, stone in the bladder, disease of the pro- state gland, &c. the ureters are frequently found to be greatly enlarged in their diameter, and otherwise diseased in their structure. The urethra. — The internal surface of the urethra may be exposed to view and examined by opening the canal through the entire length of its course by an incision which should be carried along its superior wall: this incision is readily made with the scis- sors, one of the blades of which is to be introduced into the canal. If this is done before the penis and bladder are detached from the pelvis, the relations of the urethra to the surrounding struc- tures, and the curved direction which it pursues, can be studied with much greater advantage than when they have been previ- ously separated. The urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the sum- mit of the glans penis, where it terminates by a vertical slit or aperture, which is named the meatus urinarius. The length of the urethra may be said to average between eight and nine inches, though in many instances considerable variations from this standard may be shown to exist. The diameter of the ure- thra is not exactly the same throughout its extent, but varies considerably at different points. The direction of the urethra is, strictly speaking, curved, though by alittlc tact a perfectly straight instrument may be carried along it into the bladder. As the penis hangs loosely in front of the scrotum, the urethra presents a