DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 18 however from side to side, which extend forwards as far as the base of the glans penis, which they support upon their rounded extremities. The dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis run in the groove which the corpora cavernosa present superiorly by their junction in the mesial line, while the spongy body of the urethra lies in a similar but deeper groove upon their inferior surface. The structure of the corpora cavernosa consists externally of a strong fibrous sheath, which is thickest near their posterior ex- tremities, or the crura, as they are termed, of the penis, and internally, of a vascular structure, which has been considered as an intermediate structure between arteries and veins, and named “ erectile tissue.''’ The vascular structure of the corpora caver- nosa has no communication with that of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. There is an imperfect septum which separates the cavity of one corpus cavernosum from that of the other, and which from its figure has been called the septum pectiniforme, in which are numerous oblong-shaped foramina that allow a free commu- nication to be established between the internal structure of one cavernous body and that of the opposite side. By making a small puncture into one of the cavernous bodies, and intro- ducing some air by means of a blow-pipe, the body of the penis becomes distended as in the state of erection, but none of the air which is thus inflated passes into the corpus spongiosum urethrae. The corpora cavernosa are suspended to the symphysis pubis by a triangular-shaped band of fibro-cellular or ligamentous structure, which is called the suspensory ligament of the penis, and which is inserted by its base into the posterior part of the groove upon their upper surface. The urethra, where it is supported in the groove on the infe- rior surface of the corpora cavernosa, is surrounded by a thin layer of erectile tissue, which is named the corpus spongiosum urethrae. It differs from the corpora cavernosa in the greater thinness of its external fibrous investment, and in the small quantity of the erectile tissue of which it is composed. At each extremity the corpus spongiosum presents a very consi- derable enlargement, the anterior of which is the glans penis, and the posterior the bulb of the urethra.