THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 79 to be guarded against, is the wounding of the peritonseum as it is reflected from the summit of the bladder upon the posterior surface of the abdominal parietes. Before the operation is commenced, the bladder should be moderately distended, either by the patient having retained his urine for some time previously, or, what is much better, by injecting a sufficient quantity of tepid water immediately be- fore commencing the incisions. T. he patient is placed in the recumbent posture, with his shoulders gently elevated by some pillows laid underneath them ; while the legs are allowed to hang loosely over the lower edge of the table. The operator, placing himself upon the right side of the patient, makes an incision of three or four inches in length up- wards from the pubis, following the direction of the linea alba. When the skin and subjacent adipose tissue have been divided, the tendinous aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles (which by their intersection form the linea alba) are exposed, and must be cautiously divided to the same extent as the external in- cision ; a little cellular tissue now only remains to be cut, in order to expose the anterior surface of the bladder. It is during this part of the operation that great care is requisite lest, in carrying his knife too freely into the superior angle of the wound, the operator should open the sac of the peritonseum. When the bladder has been fairly exposed, it is to be opened either by plunging the knife into it at once, or by first trans- fixing it from within by a sonde-a-dard, which is introduced by the urethra for this purpose. The opening that is made in the coats of the bladder is to be enlarged by cutting towards the pubes ; after which, the finger is introduced into the bladder, with the double purpose of ascertaining the situation of the stone, and of preventing the collapse of the parietes of the bladder. Sometimes a blunt hook or crotchet is employed, instead of the finger, to sustain the edges of the opening in the bladder during the endeavours to seize and extract the stone. When the ope- ration is concluded, a slip of linen or a cannula is placed between the edges of the wound, with the view of facilitating the exit of the urine. The chief sources of danger after this operation, arc the escape of the urine into the loose cellular tissue which surrounds the bladder, and the occurrence of inflammation and formation