THE INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 51 these are very strongly developed, and present a uniform sur- face all round the intestine ; the internal layer, on the con- trary, consists of circular fibres, the most inferior of which being more closely aggregated together and stronger than the rest, have, in consequence of this difference, been sometimes described as the internal sphincter muscle of the anus. The arteries of the rectum are furnished from three distinct sources : the inferior mesenteric artery furnishes the superior hamorrhoidal; the internal iliac artery gives off the middle hcc- morrhoidal arteries ; and the inferior or external hcemorrhoidal come from the internal pudic arteries as they are running along the inner surface of the tuberosities of the ischia. The trunk of the superior hsemorrhoidal artery is placed upon the posterior surface of the first portion of the intestine, between the layers of the meso-rectum; the middle hsemorrhoidal run chiefly upon the lateral surfaces of the middle portion ; while the inferior hsemorrhoidal ramify around the circumference of the anus. The veins of the internal coat of the rectum form the radicles of the inferior mesenteric vein, and are thus continuous with the vena portae ; hence they are frequently dilated in diseases of the liver and of the heart: upon which circumstance is founded the practice, which prevails so much in France, and elsewhere upon the continent, of applying leeches around the anus in affections of these organs. The nerves of the rectum are furnished partly from the hypo- gastric plexus of the sympathetic system, and partly from the sacral plexus of the spinal nerves. THE INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. The internal pudic artery arises from the internal iliac almost immediately after the sciatic artery has been given off from that vessel. Sometimes, however, the internal pudic and the sciatic arteries spring together from a common trunk, which is a branch of the internal iliac. After a short course, the internal pudic artery leaves the cavity of the pelvis, passing out through the great sacro-sciatic notch, running, as it emerges, between the inferior border of the pyriformis muscle and the spinous process of the ischium. As it thus escapes from the e 2