10 DISSECTION OP THE PERINyEUM. cal figure, and is composed of two bundles of fleshy fibres, which are united with one another in front and behind the aper- ture of the anus, at the same time diminishing in their breadth. Posteriorly, the fibres of the muscle are attached to the ex- tremity of the coccyx by means of a narrow fibro-cellular band of about an inch in length ; anteriorly, the fibres are inserted partly into the inferior surface of the superficial fascia, and paitly into the central tendinous point of the perinseum. The structure of the muscle is fleshy, except at its attachment to the coccyx, where it is slightly tendinous. In some subjects the muscle is very thick and strong, while in others it is extremely delicate. Relations—inferiorly, this muscle is covered by the skin ; su- peiioily, with the superficial fascia and the levator ani, from which last, however, it is separated by some of the fibres of the triangular ligament of the urethra ; externally, with the adipose tissue which occupies the ischio-rectal fossm ; and internally, EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. This represents a dissection of the superficial fascia of the peiinasum . posteriorly, the external sphincter and levatores ani muscles are dissected in order to show the ischio-rectal fossa. 1.1. The superficial fascia of the perinaeum. This fascia covers the muscles of the penis, and is attached on each side to the edge of the branches of the ischia and ossa pubis; anteriorly, it is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum. 2. 2. These figures indicate the point where the superficial fascia of the perinaum passes behind the transverse mus- cles to become attached to the anterior surface of the tri- angular ligament of the urethra. 3.3. The fascia lata of the thighs covering the adductor muscles. 4. 4. The tuberosities of the ischia. 5. The coccyx. a. The external sphincter muscle surrounding the anus, which is stuffed with a little cotton wool. The attach- ment of the fibres of the muscle upon the inferior sur- face of the superficial fascia is seen in front; posteriorly, the fibres are connected by a fibro-cellular band to the coccyx. b. b. The inferior border of the great gluteal muscles. c. c. The levatores ani. Between the tuberosities of the ischia and the anus, are the hollow spaces named by M. Velpeau the ischio-rectal Jossce.