59 MORBID CHANGES IN THE RECTUM. occasionally succeed in Ins endeavour to reach the closed extre- mity of the bowel, by making an incision cautiously in the direction of the hollow of the sacrum, and so afford an exit to the faecal contents of the alimentary canal. The child rarely survives the operation, however successful it has been, many days. OF SOME OF THE MORBID CHANGES IN THE LOWER PART OF THE RECTUM. The term “ haemorrhoids ” comprises several varieties of tumours around the lower extremity of the rectum. In some instances the tumour is simply a dilatation or true varix of one or more of the veins of the bowel; while in others it is formed by the extravasation of blood into the cells of the submucous cellular tissue, consequent upon a rupture of the affected vessel. The cavities thus formed may continue to communicate with the interior of the vessel that has been ruptured, and may increase in their size by a repetition of the extravasation ; or they may cease to be connected with the interior of the vein, and assume the characters of an isolated and solid mass, by the condensation and thickening which result from repeated attacks of inflammation. In a third variety a vascular substance is generated in the cellular tissue surrounding the margin of the anus, which resembles, when it is cut with the knife, the structure of erectile tissue in many of its characters. Haimorrhoids or piles are named external or in- ternal, according as they are covered by the common integument of the margin of the anus, or by the mucous membrane of the intestine. It is best to remove external piles by excision with the knife or scissors ; but, when the tumour is within the bowel, the ligature is more advisable, as there is a great risk of severe haemorrhage following the use of the knife in such cases. After the application of the ligature, considerable benefit results from the practice of cutting off the summit of the strangulated tumour. Verruca circa anum.—These are soft, indolent, fleshy growths, which frequently occur about the anus in consequence