16 DISSECTION OF THE PERIN/EUM. base of which is directed posteriorly, and is formed by the trans- verse muscle ; in this space the superficialis pcrinaci artery runs forwards in its course to the scrotum. If the finger or the handle of the scalpel be placed in this space, its further pro- gress inwards will be arrested by the triangular ligament of the urethra, which limits its depth : when the muscles are held apart from each other, the triangular ligament may be partially seen ; it is of a bluish colour, and of a tendinous structure. The knife is carried obliquely across the posterior part of this triangular space in the lateral operation of lithotomy. It should however be recollected that, previous to the dissection of the muscles, this space is very much smaller than it now appears. The central tendinous point of the perimeum is that spot where the fibres of the accelerator urinse, external sphincter of the anus, and transverse muscles are united with one another; it is covered by the skin and superficial fascia, and it rests upon the triangular ligament of the urethra between the bulb and the rectum. The cellulo-fibrous raphe, which has been described as connecting the lateral portions of the accelerator urinee muscle to each other, extends forwards from this point. Dissection of the bulb of the urethra, crura of the penis, &fc. — The transverse muscles and the erectors of the penis should next be cut away entirely, to expose the crura of the penis, and the greater part of the triangular ligament of the urethra; after which, divide the accelerator urinse muscle along the mesial line, and carefully reflect the flaps on each side so as to follow the fibres to their respective insertions ; by this way they may be traced round the spongy body of the urethra, immediately in front of the bulb.* * It is sometimes recommended, for this purpose, to cut the urethra across about three inches in front of the bulb, and turn it downwards by dissecting it from the body of the penis. By following this method, it is true that the fibres of the muscle may be very clearly seen to unite with one another in the angle which is formed by the junction of the crura of the penis. But if it is the intention of the dissector to proceed throughout with the dissection, it will be better not to do this, as the continuity of the urethra is interfered with. It is better in such case to be contented with showing the circular fibres by pulling alternately upon each flap of the muscle after their reflection.