75 THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. The accidents which are most liable to occur in the perform- ance of the operation are haemorrhage and a wound of the rectum. The haemorrhage may be furnished from the artery of the bulb,— from the trunk of the internal pudie, or from the smaller branches of it, the transversalis and superficialis perinaei. The artery of the bulb is avoided by not making the incisions, while exposing the membranous portion of the urethra, too high up towards the arch of the pubes. Phe trunk of the internal pudie ought not to be exposed to injury if the inci- sions are made in the proper direction, obliquely downwards and outwards; it is only by inclining the edge of the knife almost horizontally, and carrying it much too close to the margin of the bone, that this vessel is cut. The rectum will not be wounded if care is taken to depress the bowel to the opposite side, with the finger of the left hand, while the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra are being cut, and if the blade of the knife is sufficiently lateralised. The structures that are divided in the first incisions of the lateral operation are, the skin, a portion of the superficial fascia where it covers the transverse muscle, and a part of the adipose tissue which fills up the ischio-rectal fossa. In the second in- cision, the transverse muscle and the small artery that runs along its posterior border, a portion of the triangular ligament, the membranous portion of the urethra, with the compressor urethra) muscle, are cut. A few of the most posterior of the fibres of the accelerator urinse are sometimes divided. In the last incision, the left lobe of the prostate gland, with such of the fibres of the levator ani muscle as descend upon its side, together with the neck of the bladder, are divided. It frequently occurs, after the operation of lithotomy, that the urine flows by the urethra on the second or third day, but soon afterwards it comes away only by the wound ; this is owing to the temporary closure of the lips of the wound from the in- flammatory swelling of the parts, which ensues after the operation. When death follows the operation of lithotomy, and has not been caused by haemorrhage, the principal post-mortem appear- ances will be found to be depending either upon peritonitis and inflammation of the bladder, or from diffuse inflammation of the loose cellular tissue which surrounds the base of the bladder and