69 INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. to the triangular ligament of the urethra ; and, on each side, by its insertions into the internal edge of the branches of the ischia and ossa pubis. In such cases the urine distends the perinseum, and then proceeds forwards, underneath the dartos, into the scrotum ; thence, if the extravasation continues, it ascends upon the lower part of the abdomen, passing between the superficial fascia of the inguinal regions and the tendon of the external oblique muscles. This is the ordinary course of the extravasated fluid under these circumstances ; but I have seen it spread back- wards upon the buttocks and ischio-rectal fossae, and downwards upon the thighs as far as the knees. The case is a desperate one when the urine is extravasated into the cellular structure of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. In cases of extravasation of urine, early and free incisions should be made into the distended parts ; and, where it can be done, a gum catheter should be introduced into the bladder, and allowed to remain there during the cure. Sometimes a patient comes to the hospital who has received a blow upon the perinseum: he is in great pain and cannot pass his urine, and the perinseum and the scrotum are largely dis- tended ; the latter is also quite of a black colour. This ap- pearance is owing to extravasation of blood following the rup ture of one of the arteries of the scrotum in consequence of the blow. In this case incisions need not to be made, as the blood will be quickly absorbed under milder treatment. Puncture of the bladder from the rectum.—Cases of reten- tion of urine may occur in which the catheter cannot be passed into the bladder, and the operation of puncturing the bladder must be had recourse to for the relief of the patient. When this operation is performed from the rectum, the patient is placed in the same position as for the operation of lithotomy; and the surgeon introduces the two first fingers of his left hand into the intestine, until he feels the posterior edge of the prostate gland. A long curved trocar is then carried along the fingers ; and as soon as the extremity of the cannula has passed beyond the prostate, the handle of the instrument is to be depressed, and the stilette pushed onwards, so as to enter it into the bladder, passing through the small space which is included between the recto-vesical cul-de-sac of the peritonseum and the vasa de- ferentia. The cannula, or a piece of gum catheter, should be left in the wound for several hours after the operation, to