49 THE RECTUM. vertical, though it presents, as has been already mentioned, a slight inclination from left to right as it descends into the cavity of the pelvis. This portion of the rectum lies loosely in front of the sacrum, beinjr invested for more than three-fourths of its circum- ference by the peritonaeum, which is then reflected upon the sides of the pelvis, forming a large duplicaturc, the meso-reclum, be- tween the layers of which the superior hecmorrhoidal vessels, with some nerves and cellular tissue, are situated. The middle portion of the rectum is nearly horizontal in its direction, and is between three and four inches in length. It rests upon the lower part of the sacrum, the coccyx, and coccygeal muscles: its anterior surface is partially covered at first by the peritonaeum; after which it is only separated by some cellular tissue from the vesiculae seminales, vasa deferentia, and the small portion of the base of the bladder which lies between them ; to- wards its termination it is in close contact with the prostate gland and the posterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra. The peritonaeum covers this division of the rectum upon its anterior and lateral surfaces only at its commencement, being soon reflected from it upon the posterior surface of the bladder, forming thus the recto-vesical cul-de-sac of the peritonaeum. The remainder of this portion of the intestine lies imbedded in a quantity of cellular and adipose tissue, and receives an investment from the pelvic fascia which maintains it fixed in its position upon the sacrum and coccyx. The third portion of the rectum is the shortest, as its length does not exceed one inch and a half; it extends, in an oblique direction downwards and backwards, from the extremity of the coccyx to the anus. It is surrounded by the fibres of the external sphincter and levatores ani muscles, and supported by the prolongation backwards of the triangular ligament of the urethra. In consequence of the direction backwards of this portion of the rectum, a small triangular-shaped interval is left between it and the bulb of the urethra (the recto-urethral tri- angle ) ; its base is formed by the cutaneous surface of the perin- seum in front of the anus, and the apex is situated near the an- terior extremity of the prostate gland. The first incisions in the bilateral operation of lithotomy are carried across this triangular space, which is occupied chiefly by some adipose tissue. E