DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 12 membranous layer which conceals the muscles of the penis. On each side the fascia is attached to the borders of the branches of the ischia and ossa pubis ; anteriorly it passes forwards into the scrotum, where it appears to become continuous with the dar- tos; posteriorly it is inserted into the inferior surface of the triangular ligament of the urethra, behind the posterior border of the transverse muscles of the perinaeum, which it covers. The superficial fascia is pierced at various points by some of the small cutaneous branches of the superficial arteries and nerves of the perinaeum. Relations—by its inferior surface with the skin, the subcutaneous layer of adipose tissue, and some of the fibres of the external sphincter muscle which are inserted into it near the mesial line ; by its superior surface with the crura and erector muscles of the penis, the accelerator urinae, and transverse muscles, and with the cellular tissue which fills up the inter- spaces between them, in which the superficial vessels and nerves of the perinaeum ramify. If a small slit be made into this membrane posteriorly, and the extremity of a blowpipe introduced underneath it, the air which is inflated will be observed, after distending the perinaeal portion of the fascia, to pass forwards into the scrotum, and diffuse itself into the loose cellular tissue which separates the dartos from the sheath which the spermatic cords and testicles receive from the margins of the external abdominal rings. If the inflation is continued, the air will, after distending the scro- tum, make its way upon the front of the abdomen in the loose cellular tissue which connects the aponeuroses of the external oblique muscles with the superficial fascia of the inguinal and hypogastric regions. It is by following the same course that the urine, which is sometimes extravasated underneath this fascia by a rupture of the anterior part of the urethra, is seen to make its way along the perinaeum into the scrotum, and even upon the anterior and lateral parts of the abdominal parietes.* Dissection of the muscles of the penis.—The muscles of the penis may now be exposed by laying open the superficial fascia by a crucial incision, and reflecting to either side the flaps, * Previously to the description of the superficial fascia by Mr. Colles, of Dublin, it was found difficult to explain the course which the urine pursued when extravasated into the perinaeum, as may be seen by referring to the second volume of Mr. Abernethy’s Surgical Observation, p. 245.