5 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. sides, the length of the sides being from three inches to three inches and a half; while the base scarcely equals three inches, and most frequently is rather less.* The raphe or central line of the body will subdivide this triangular space into two smaller triangles, which are of equal size, within one of which the first incisions of the lateral operation of lithotomy must commence. The external surface of the perinscum is convex anteriorly from side to side, which is owing to the prominence of the bulb of the urethra ; but between the tuberosities of the ischia it is more or less excavated, especially where the anus is situated. The skin is thin and delicate, and easily moveable upon the subjacent structures, which requires that it should be fixed with the fingers of the left hand while the first incisions of lithotomy are being made. Generally the perinseum is more or less covered with hair, which ought to be removed with the razor previously to the performance of any operation upon this region. There are numerous follicles which open upon the surface of the skin, especially around the circumference of the anus; these follicles frequently inflame and suppurate, forming small abscesses, which might be mistaken for a fistula in ano. In front of the anus the raphe or central elevation of the skin is particularly distinct where it extends forwards towards the scrotum. It is upon the left side of the raphe, and about one inch in front of the anus, that the first cut of the late- ral operation of lithotomy is usually commenced, which is carried in an oblique direction downwards and outwards be- tween the anus and the tuberosity of the ischium, a little nearer, however, to the latter point than to the anus. The length of this incision is from two to three inches. In the bilateral operation oflithotomythe external incision com- mences on the right side, between the tuberosity of the ischium and the anus ; and is carried across the perinseum in a semicircular direction, until it is made to terminate opposite to the point at which it was begun. The centre of the incision should be * In twenty-three subjects which he examined for this purpose, Dupuy- tren found the base of the urethral portion of the perinseum of very variable extent, in some cases not exceeding two inches, and in others being as much as three inches and a half. Velpeau has seen the tuberosities of the ischia as near to one another as 1J inch. In my own observations I have seldom found the base to exceed 2’J inches.