THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 72 through the perinseum, or in which the prostate gland is much enlarged. The employment of the recto-vesical method has been, in a great measure, confined to those surgeons who first introduced it.* The lateral operation of lithotomy as performed with the knife. —The staff should be introduced into the bladder, and the stone felt previously to fixing the patient in the constrained position which is requisite for the safe performance of the operation. When the stone has been struck with the staff, the assistants may proceed to bind the patient’s hands and feet together in the usual manner. The staff ought to be as large as the urethra will admit, and the groove as wide and deep as possible. The groove may be placed rather on the right side of the instrument, and should not extend quite to its extremity. The groove being placed upon the side of the staff enables the surgeon to cut into it more easily, and also to give that direction to his knife by which he divides the neck of the bladder and the prostate on the left side.* The assistant now takes charge of the staff, grasping it firmly in his right hand, while with his left he raises up the scro- tum from the perineeum. The handle of the staff should be held in a perpendicular direction, at right angles with the patient’s body, at the same time that its curved part is drawn up closely underneath the arch of the pubes, in order to prevent its pressing too much downwards upon the rectum. The ope- rator, before commencing his incisions, should feel for the pro- minence of the tuberosity of the ischium, and measure the distance between its inner edge and the anus. The first incision.—This should be begun close to the left side of the raphe of the perinseum, and about an inch and a quarter in front of the anus : from this point it should be carried, in an oblique direction, downwards and outwards, so as * As far as I know, M. Sanson, the surgeon of the hospital of La Pitid at Paris, has relinquished the recto-vesical method in favour of the bilateral operation. At all events, during a residence in Paris for a considerable period, I never saw him perform any other than the bilateral operation. f Illustrations of the great operations of Surgery; by Sir Charles Bell, fol. 1821, page 117.