DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 23 To expose Cowpcr’s glands and tlie arteries of the bulb, the anterior lamina of the triangular ligament must be removed. The glands of Cowper are two small bodies of the size and figure of a large pea; they arc situated immediately below the membranous part of the urethra, on each side of the mesial line, inclosed between the layers of the triangular ligament. The structure of these bodies resembles that of the other conglome- rate glands, consisting of several small granules of a pale ash- colour aggregated together ; their ducts are so small as to admit with difficulty the introduction of a bristle ; they traverse the coats of the urethra very obliquely, and open into the inferior surface of that canal about an inch and a half in front of the tri- angular ligament. These glands are sometimes so small that it is with great difficulty they can be displayed. Cowper’s glands are frequently enlarged in cases of stricture of the urethra, and are occasionally the seat of abscesses. I have found the left one divided after the lateral operation of litho- tomy had been performed. The arteries of the bulb are two branches of considerable size, which are commonly given off by the internal pudic ves- sels opposite the opening in the triangular ligament which trans- mits the membranous portion of the urethra. When this is the case, there is little risk of their being divided in the lateral ope- ration of lithotomy, if the incisions be not made too high when exposing the groove of the staff. Occasionally, however, they run much lower down, and it may then be impossible to avoid wounding them. To dissect the membranous portion of the urethra and the prostate gland, <§rc. without making a section of the pelvis.—• When the dissector is desirous of obtaining a view of the mem- branous portion of the urethra, and the structures which sur- round the neck and base of the bladder, and is not allowed to do so by following the usual method of making a lateral section of the pelvis, he may nevertheless effect his object by adopting the following plan, which consists in separating the rectum from its connexions, and depressing it towards the sacrum and coccyx. The advantages of this plan are the facility of its performance, the little disfigurement of the body which ensues,—circumstances which are frequently of considerable importance — and a more accurate conception of the depth of the perinseum, and the dis-