44 DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. double curvature, which has been likened to the letterS reversed. The first of these curves, or that which is situated in front of the symphysis pubis, is readily effaced by raising the penis upwards until it forms a right angle with the axis of the body; it also dis- appears in the state of erection of the penis. The second cur- vature, however, is permanent, and is formed by the urethra bending underneath the arch of the pubis, towards which the concavity of the curve is directed. This last curvature, though constantly present, is not so great as has been imagined by many; but it is liable to be increased by several circumstances, and more especially by enlargement of the prostate gland. The urethra has been divided into three portions, which differ from one another in their structure as well as in their situation and extent; they are the prostatic portion, the membranous portion, and the spongy portion. 1. The prostatic portion commences at the neck of the blad- der, and extends in an oblique direction from above downwards, and from behind forwards, about twelve or fifteen lines. This is, in the natural condition, the widest part of the urethra. In the middle of its floor a triangular-shaped eminence is observable, which is formed by a duplicature of the mucous and submucous tunics; this is the verumontanum or caput gallinaginis. On each side of this fold the urethra presents a deep depression — sinus prostaticus, into which the ducts of the prostate gland open. By compressing the gland between the fingers, these orifices may be more distinctly seen, by the whitish fluid, which is the secretion of the gland, being thus made to issue from them : they are about fifteen or twenty in number. The orifices of these ducts are some- times considerably dilated, and then may become an obstacle to the passage of a small catheter, from the point of the instrument becoming entangled in them. A slight depression is to be seen upon the anterior surface of the verumontanum, which is named the sinuspocularis, and within the margins of which the common ejaculatory ducts open, commonly by two separate orifices which are situated one on either side of the mesial line. The extre- mity of a small catheter is sometimes obstructed in its pas- sage at this point also ; and, if force is used, a false passage will be the result. The extremities of the prostatic portion of the urethra are usually narrower in their diameter than the inter- vening space.