73 THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. to pass midway between tlie inner edge of tlic tuberosity of the ischium and the left margin of the anus. In the adult, the length of this incision will be about three inches. While making the first incision, the operator fixes the integuments oi the perinaeum with the fingers of his left hand. The knife is struck at the first a full inch deep; and, as it is drawn down- wards to the termination of the incision, it is gradually with- drawn from its deep position, in order to avoid wounding the rectum.* The knife is now to be introduced a second time into the upper part of the wound ; and the deep cellular substance, the transverse muscle, and a portion of the triangular ligament of the urethra and of the fibres of the levator ani are divided by re- peated touches with the edge of the scalpel, until the mem- branous portion of the urethra is laid bare a little in front of the prostate gland. Feeling now the groove of the staff through the thin parietes of the urethra, the operator directs the point of his scalpel into it, guiding it along the back of the nail of the left index-finger. The opening of the membranous portion of the urethra should be sufficiently free to admit of the extremity of the finger-nail being easily placed into the groove of the staff.*f* The point of the scalpel, or of the probe-pointed bistoury, if this instrument should be preferred, is now placed in the groove of the staff, and then carried' slowly and steadily onwards into the bladder; dividing, as it passes along, the left lobe of the prostate gland in the direction of its longest diameter, which is obliquely downwards and outwards. The left index-finger depresses the rectum to the right side, so as to protect it from injury by the edge of the knife, while the membranous portion of the urethra is being divided to expose the groove of the staff, and, also, during the succeeding period, when the incision is made into the prostate gland, and neck of the bladder. As soon as the knife has entered the bladder, the urine escapes ; * Op. citat. p. 120. f When the gorget or the bistouri cachd is employed, this is the mo- ment at which the knife is to be laid aside, and changed for one of these instruments, the beak of which is placed in the groove of the staff, guided along the finger-nail, and then carried onwards into the bladder.