THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 76 is continuous with the subserous cellular tissue of the pelvis. This inflammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis may be induced by the urine becoming cxtravasated into its cells, in consequence of not escaping sufficiently freely by the external wound ; or it may arise independently of this cause, from the injury which it has sustained during the operation and the extraction of the stone.* The bilateral operation.—This method, as practised at the present day, is but of very recent date, having been introduced by the late Baron Dupuytren.f The patient is placed in the same position as for the lateral operation of lithotomy. The staff having been introduced, it is given to an assistant, who holds it in such a position that its handle shall form a right angle with the patient’s body ; at the same time fixing it firmly against the inferior border of the pubic arch. The groove of the staff is placed upon its inferior surface. The operator then mates a curved incision across the perinseum, commencing be- tween the tuberosity of the right ischium and the margin of the anus, but a little nearer to the former point, and terminating at the corresponding point upon the opposite side. The concavity of this incision must be directed towards the anus, and its centre should be situated upon the raphe of the perinseum, about six or eight lines in front of the anus. The skin, subcutaneous adipose tissue, superficial fascia, and anterior extremity of the external sphincter muscle having been divided, the index-finger of the left hand should be introduced into the centre of the wound, and the groove of the staff sought for, where it lies in the membranous portion of the urethra, between the bulb and the prostate gland. The urethra is to be opened here to the extent of three or four lines, when the extremity of the finger- nail should be inserted into the groove of the staff, to serve as a conductor for the beak of the Hthotome. The operator now changes the scalpel for the lithotome, the point of which he places in the groove of the staff; taking care that the concavity of the instrument is directed upwards, and corresponds with the * Vide Med. Chir. Trans. Lond. vol. viii. p. 206, for “ Remarks on the best mode of making the incisions in the lateral operation of Lithotomy by Samuel Cooper, Esq. Surgeon to the Forces. y The direction of the external incisions is similar to those of the opera- tion described by Celsus.