DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. 37 The bladder is the musculo-membranous reservoir that serves to contain the urine during the intervals of its evacuation from the body. It lies behind the bones and symphysis of the pubis, and in front of the first or perpendicular division of the rectum, resting upon the middle portion of the gut. When the bladder and rectum are empty, the space between them is usually occupied by some of the folds of the small intestine, which then descend into the pelvis. 1 he figure of the bladder is not always the same, for it differs considerably according to the age and sex of the individual, and also in the opposite con- ditions of repletion and vacuity. In children the bladder is of pyriform figure, and is situated much more in the hypogastric and the umbilical regions than in the cavity of the pelvis, which it occupies in the adult, when it is also of a rounded or ovoid shape. The bladder in the adult, when empty, lies closely behind the pubis, and in this condition must be greatly protected from injury from external violence; but, when it is distended with urine, the upper part of it rises above the edge of the pubis, and lies behind the lower part of the recti muscles. For the purpose of description, the exterior of the bladder may be divided into four surfaces or regions, to which may be added its summit and base. The anterior surface is separated from the pubis by a quan- tity of loose cellular and adipose tissue, and extends, from the insertion of the urachus into the summit of the bladder, to the upper edge of the prostate gland, where the anterior ligaments fix it more firmly to the bones of the pubis. This part of the surface of the bladder is uncovered by peritonaeum; and upon this circumstance is founded the practice of puncturing the bladder above the pubis in some cases of retention of urine, and also the high operation of lithotomy. That these operations may be performed with safety, it is necessary, however, that the bladder should be considerably distended. In thin persons it is always easy to determine whether the bladder is distended or not, by the tumour which it forms in the hypogastric region ; but the case is very different in cor- pulent individuals, in whom the belly is more than usually prominent: in these circumstances the diagnosis is frequently extremely difficult and obscure. The posterior surface is inclined very obliquely downwards