67 INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. and therefore they will be best avoided by keeping the point of the catheter gently directed against its superior wall. The margins of the opening in the triangular ligament will not give any trouble if the situation of the circular aperture that trans- mits the urethra is accurately understood; it is nearly one inch below the arch of the pubes, and equi-distant from the descending branches of the same bones.* When the point of the catheter is arrested in either the membranous or the prostatic portions of the urethra, it will be found of considerable advantage to introduce the left fore-finger into the rectum, which will frequently enable the operator to distinguish the situation, as likewise the cause of the difficulty, and also to direct the instrument with greater cer- tainty into the bladder. There are two errors which are very frequently committed by those who are not experienced in the introduction of the catheter: the first of these is, to hold the catheter much too stiffly in the hand; for it is not an uncommon sight to observe the handle of the catheter grasped as firmly as one would a dagger, instead of handling it as lightly as a pen. The con- sequence of this error is, that if the point of the instrument should happen to be arrested by any obstacle to its passage along the urethra, it is immediately forced through the delicate lining membrane of the canal, and a false passage is thus commenced. The second error is, to observe the general rule of keeping the point of a catheter, during its introduction, directed against the upper surface of the urethra, too strictly, whereby it is liable to be arrested in its progress by the superior margin of the opening in the triangular ligament, or, if it passes here, at a little distance farther onwards by the edge of the prostate gland. False passages are most commonly made where the surface of the urethra presents some inequality, either upon its surface or in the density of the structures which surround it. It is from these circumstances that they are most frequently com- menced in the sinus of the bulb, or in the membranous and prostatic portions of the canal. False passages may also origi- nate from the point of a small catheter being entangled in some one of the numerous lacunae of the urethra. Where the canal is more constricted, and its parictes thicker and stronger at any * See the woodcut at p. 21, fig. 7. f 2