15 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. The accelerator urinee is situated in the centre of the peri- nseum, and surrounds the bulb and posterior part of the spongy body of the urethra. This muscle is divided into two equal portions by a cellulo-fibrous band or raphe, which extends for- wards from the central point of the perinseum as far as the whole length of the muscle, and which has given rise to the usual description of it as consisting of two muscles, though it may equally as well be considered as one. The muscular fibres, after their origin from the central raphe, incline obliquely outwards and forwards, and are inserted, posteriorly, into the anterior surface of the triangular ligament of the urethra near to its attachment to the branches of the ossa pubis; the middle fibres encircle the spongy part of the urethra, and are re-unitecl to each other underneath the junction of the crura of the penis, while those most anterior are prolonged for a consi- derable distance forwards and outwards to be inserted into the sides of the corpora cavernosa penis, opposite the point where the penis, when in the flaccid state, bends upon itself in front of the pubis. The figure of the muscle is cylindrical in its cen- tre, where it embraces the spongy body of the penis; but ante- riorly and posteriorly it presents the form of a simple groove, which supports the bulb and part of the spongy body. The structure of the muscle is fleshy, except at its origin and inser- tions, where it is slightly tendinous. Relations—inferiorly, with the superficial fascia and skin ; superiorly, with the trian- gular ligament, the bulb and spongy body of the urethra ; in the mesial line it is connected posteriorly, through the medium of the common central point, with the external sphincter of the anus and the transverse muscles. Action—to propel forwards the urine and seminal fluid. There can be no doubt, from the mode in which the middle fibres of this muscle encircle the urethra, that it may by a spas- modic contraction prevent for a time the introduction of a catheter along that part of the canal. The truth of this obser- vation has been frequently proved in practice during the intro- duction of bougies, &c. Some of the most posterior fibres of this muscle are commonly cut in the lateral operations of li- thotomy. When the muscles have been dissected, a triangular space is exposed between the accelerator urinse and the erector penis, the