11 28, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE. DRAWING. Lineal Drawing Copies for the Earliest Instruction. Comprising 200 Sub- jects on 24 sheets, mounted on 12 pieces of thick pasteboard. By the Author of “ Drawing for Young Children.” In a Port- folio, 5s. 6d. Drawing Copies for Elementary Instruction. By the Author of “ Drawing for Young Children.” 2 Sets, each consist- ing of 12 Subjects, mounted on thick paste- board. 3s. 6<i. each Set, in a Portfolio. Deacon’s Elements of Perspec- tive Drawing, or the Science of Deline- ating Beal Objects. Being a Manual of Directions for using a Set of Models, com- posing a variety of Picturesque Forms. Suitable for the Practice of Beginners. Illustrated with Eight Plates, 8vo. 4s. Drawing Models, consisting of Forms for constructing various Buildings, Gateways, Castles, Bridges, &c. The Build- ings will be found sufficiently large to be drawn from by a numerous Class at the same time. In a Box, with a small Trea- tise on Drawing and Perspective. Price 21. 10s. Length of the Box, 184 inches; breadth, 13 inches; height, 84 inches. Trachsell’s Drawing Models, consisting of Rectilinear Figures, Polygonal and Mixtilinear Models, Models chiefly for Shading, and Models for application and further practice. Price <?f the complete set 101. Any Figure may be purchased separately. The whole Collection, with the exception of the houses, is painted white, to resemble plaster. A complete Collection on a larger scale, such as that used in the Mechanics’ Institu- tion, Liverpool, 151. *** A detailed Prospectus may be had on application. Drawing Materials. A Quarto Copy Book of 24 leaves, common paper, Gd. Ditto . . ditto paper of superior quality, Is. 3d- Pencils with very thick lead, B.B.B. 2s. per half dozen. Ditto .... ditto . . F. at Is. 6d. ditto. Drawing Chalk, 9d. per dozen sticks, in a Box. Port-crayons for holding the Chalk, 4d. each. EDUCATIONAL MODELS FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS, MECHANICS’ INSTITUTIONS, AND FOR PRIVATE INSTRUCTION. A Set of Apparatus for Hydro- statics, Hydraulics, and Pneumatics; with a Pamphlet containing full Descriptions and Directions for Performing many Ex- periments. Price 61. 6s.in abox. Apparatus for Cohesion, Capil- lary Attraction, Electric and Magnetic Attraction, Impenetrability and Inertia; with Descriptions and Diagrams. Price 21s. in a box. | A Machine for Illustrating Cen- trifugal Motion; including a representa- tion of the Governor of a Steam Engine. In a box, 10s. Attwood’s Machine for Explain- ing the Laws of Falling Bodies: with Apparatus attached for Illustrating the Theory of the Pendulum. Price of Att- wood's Machine, with a “ Companion,” 21. 2s.; additional Apparatus, for the Pen- dulum, U. is. I ®-~— = Sets of Mechanical Powers; containing the Lever—Wheel and Axle— A Series of Pulleys—The Inclined Plane— Wedge—Screw; with Examples of the Parallelogram of Forces—Centre of Gravity —Friction—Collision of Elastic Bodies— Compound Lever. £ s. d. 1. For large Lecture-rooms (size of the frame : height 3 feet 1 inch; width, 3 feet) 8 8 0 2. For Schools and smaller Lecture- rooms (height of the frame, 2 feet 6 inches; width 2 feet 3 inches) 5 5 0 3. A Smaller Sot, omitting the Pa- rallelogram of Forces and Col- lision of Elastic Bodies (height of the frame, 2 feet 1 inch; width, 1 foot 114 inches) . . 2 12 6 4. A Commoner Set (height of the frame, 2 feet; width, 19 inchos) 16 3 The Bent Lever. Convertible into a Bent Lever or Toggle Joint Press. With weights, and a description. Price lOr.