34 DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. to the point where they open into the floor of the prostatic por- tion of the urethra, underneath the verumontanum. In children the prostate gland is exceedingly small, while in elderly persons it very frequently becomes very much enlarged. Owing to its peculiar figure, its diameters are of very unequal extent; thus, if measured from the urethra, where it is passing through the gland, to the circumference of the base, we shall have superiorly a radius of not more than three or four lines, interiorly about four or six ; on each side, in a transverse direction, six or eight lines ; whilst in an oblique direction downwards and out- wards, which is that of the incision to be made in the lateral ope- ration of lithotomy, we shall find the radius to be from nine to twelve lines in length. There is scarcely, perhaps, any point in surgery which has been more disputed than the question, What ought to be the extent to which it is proper to carry the incision of the prostate gland in the lateral operation of lithotomy P This is a ques- tion that still remains undecided ; although in this country the majority of surgeons appear inclined to adopt the opinion that it is more safe in general not to extend the incision so far as to divide the whole of the base of the prostate gland, as by thus limiting the section, the chances of infiltration of urine into the subserous cellular tissue of the pelvis will be less than when the base of the prostate gland is divided, together with the reflection of the pelvic fascia which is connected with it. The prostate gland is sometimes the seat of abscesses, the contents of which may be discharged by the collections of pus bursting either into the rectum or the urethra. Tuberculous deposits have been noticed in the substance of the gland. The vas deferens is the long and narrow tube which conveys into the urethra the seminal fluid secreted by the testicle. It leaves the other component structures of the spermatic cord at the internal abdominal ring, and, after crossing over the epigas- tric artery, descends along the side of the bladder, running in the angle which is formed by the reflection of the peritonaeum from the posterior surface of the bladder upon the sides of the pelvis. In the latter part of this course it crosses the ureter at nearly right angles, passing upon its inner side; and then, inclining more to- wards the mesial line, runs along the inner border of the cor- responding vesicula seminalis, with the duct of which it unites at the base of the prostate gland. The vas deferens is accom-