DISSECTION OF THE PERIN/EUM. 6 situated about three-quarters of an incli in front of the anus, with the anterior half of the circumference of which its concavity should be made to correspond. The skin around the anus is of a dark brown hue, and at the margins of this opening it becomes insensibly continuous with the mucous membrane of the rectum : when the anus is closed, the skin is thrown into numerous radiated folds or wrinkles, which arrangement no doubt allows the anus to be largely dis- tended without a rupture of the cutaneous tissues. The inter- spaces between these folds sometimes become the seat of very troublesome ulcerations in some forms of venereal disease, and cause the patient much pain and annoyance. These ulcerations may nevertheless exist independent of any syphilitic taint, and excite by their irritation such a painful and constant contraction of the sphincter muscle, that it becomes necessary to divide its fibres completely across before a cure can be obtained. Within the margin of the anus the extremities of the haemorrhoidal veins are usually observed in a varicose state, forming those little tumours which are well known as con- stituting the affection termed piles. There are two varieties of these tumours; one which consists in the simple varicose dilatation of the veins of the intestine ; and the other in which the tumours are in part formed by the veins dilated, and partly by coagula of blood which has become extravasated into the adjacent cellular tissue in consequence of a rupture of the coats of the vessels. The margins of the anus are frequently also the seat of the firm fleshy tumours called condylomata, which consist of a simple hypertrophy of the cellular structure ; and though very commonly the consequence of the irritation of gonorrheal discharges, yet may exist independently of any specific disease. Dissection of the Perinceum. — The dissection may be commenced by exposing the superficial fascia and external sphincter muscle of the anus. For this purpose make an in- cision from the scrotum backwards, following the direction of the raphe of the perinamm, as far as the anterior margin of the anus, when the edge of the knife must be carried round that aperture, and thus encircle it, where the skin and the mucous membrane of the rectum arc blended with one another; from the posterior margin of the anus a single incision is to be made as