DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. 33 stance of the gland. They arc formed in the ducts, and consist, as has been found by analysis, of phosphate of lime ; these cal- culi sometimes acquire a considerable size. When the prostate gland is cut, the section presents a firm, resistant, and striated sur- face, which is not unlike in its appearance, especially in elderly people, to that of a scirrhous tumour. The structure of the pro- state is very lacerable, and admits of being extended to a very great degree. Relations—by its inferior surface, with the middle portion of the rectum; superiorly, with the anterior ligaments of the bladder; and, on each side, with the fibres of the levatores ani, which de- scend from the posterior surface of the ossa pubis to the central point of the perinseum, and have been named the compressor pro- state, — in front with Wilson’s muscles, and the membranous portion of the urethra ; behind, with the neck of the bladder. The gland is closely invested in a sheath or capsule, which is furnished by the pelvic fascia ; underneath, or in the thickness of which, run the prostatic plexus of veins, which have been al- ready alluded to. In some instances, which are happily, however, of rare occur- rence, the internal pudic artery, instead of pursuing its usual course, runs along the side of the prostate gland ; and would be almost inevitably divided in the lateral operation of lithotomy, if performed under such circumstances. Sometimes it is a large branch of the internal iliac artery which runs in this unusual course.* The urethra runs through the prostate in such a manner that it is much nearer to the superior than the inferior surface of the gland; though some exceptions have been noticed to this very general rule. The common ejaculatory ducts, which result from the union of the vasa deferentia with the ducts of the vesiculse seminales, also traverse the greater part of the substance of the gland, as they run in an oblique direction forwards and upwards * In a man who was operated upon by the late Mr. J. Shaw, and who died of haemorrhage soon after the operation, it was found that the source of the bleeding was this anomalous distribution of the arteries; a large branch of the internal iliac artery ran along the side of the prostate gland, and had been cut by the knife in opening the neck of the bladder.—Ed. Journ. of Med. Science, vol. ii. 1826. I)