DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. 47 either side the flaps of the fascia, the fibres of the muscles may be clearly displayed upon their inner surface. The levator ani muscle arises in front from the posterior sur- face of the ossa pubis, a little above the arch, and, a little more externally, from a tendinous band which stretches from the sym- physis pubis to the spinous process of the ischium ; this band is placed in the angle that is formed by the separation from one another of the pelvic and obturator fascire. A few of the fibres of the muscle arise from the spine of the ischium itself, and are soon inserted into the side of the coccyx ; those of the muscular fibres that spring from the tendinous band just now mentioned descend obliquely towards the mesial line, and are inserted into the raphe or fibrous band which extends between the extremity of the coccyx and the anus, where they are united with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side; the rest are in- serted into the side of the rectum, near its termination, after passing between the muscular coat of the intestine and the external sphincter of the anus. The fibres from the ossa pubis descend upon the sides of the prostate gland and the membra- nous portion of the urethra, underneath which they unite with each other. This muscle is thick and fleshy in its middle, and at its insertions; a few tendinous fibres are intermingled at its origins. The superior surface of the levator ani is lined in great measure by the pelvic fascia, and supports the middle portion of the rectum, the bladder, and prostate gland ; its external sur- face is covered with a thin fascia, which is prolonged upon it from the inferior border of the triangular ligament of the urethra, and which separates it from the adipose substance that occupies the ischio-rectal fossae. This muscle assists by its action in the expulsion of the fasces and urine. Those of its fibres that descend upon the left side of the prostate gland are divided in the lateral operation of lithotomy. Wilsons muscles (compressor urethrae) are two small bands of muscular fibres which arise from the posterior surface of the os pubis on each side of the symphysis, and, descending upon the sides of the membranous portion of the urethra, unite with each other underneath the canal.* These muscles are not * See a description of two muscles surrounding the membranous part of the urethra. By James Wilson, F.lt.S. Medico-chirurgical Trans, vol. i. p. 175.