40 DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. face of the bladder to the iliac fossm, and by the little folds which project on each side of the recto-vesical cul-de-sac of the same membrane. It is obvious that these do not really de- serve the name of ligaments of the bladder, inasmuch as they are rather calculated to facilitate the changes of position consequent upon its distension than to limit or restrict them. Structure of the bladder.—The coats or tunics of the bladder are three m number; a serous, a muscular, and a mucous. These are united to each other by cellular tissue, which, ac- cording to some writers, should be enumerated as two additional coats. The serous or peritoneal coat forms but a partial investment, since it only covers the posterior and a small portion of the lateral surfaces of the bladder. The extent of this covering upon the sides of the bladder appears to be determined by the course of the vasa deferentia, whilst the urachus limits it supe- lioily. The cellular tissue that unites the peri ton mum to the muscular coat is of a very lax nature, so as to allow of the free motion of the bladder underneath it during its distension. 1 he muscular coat is composed of three layers, each of which pursues a different direction ; the fibres of the first set are dis- posed in a longitudinal course, and appear to extend from the neck of the bladder and anterior ligaments over the whole sur- face of the viscus. Some of these are also attached to the urachus and to the ureters for a little distance from the bladder. The fibres of the second set are for the most part arranged in a transverse direction, while those of the internal or third layer present a reticulated appearance. This arrangement of the mus- cular fibres of the bladder can be best seen in those cases where they have become increased in thickness and strength, in con- sequence of some obstruction to the easy exit of the urine, as in cases of inveterate stricture of the urethra. In such cases, the internal surface of the bladder frequently presents a honey- combed appearance from the large size of the muscular fibres. Many persons have been deceived into the error of stating the existence of calculus in the bladder, when none in reality existed, by mistaking the sensation, which the rough internal surface of a bladder in this condition is capable of communicating to the touch, for that produced by the contact of the staff with a stone. In some instances, the mucous membrane of the bladder is