INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. 65 Many surgeons direct that, in the first period of introducing the catheter, the handle of the instrument should be turned at first obliquely towards the left groin of the patient, from which position it is gradually to be brought into the mesial line as its point approaches the bulb of the urethra. It is by no means absolutely requisite to take hold of the penis with the left hand during the introduction of a catheter, as the operation can be done equally well without touching the penis at all. Where, however, there is a stricture in the an- terior part of the urethra, considerable advantage will be ob- tained from holding the penis forwards with the left hand, as it renders the canal in front of the obstruction quite straight, and maintains it perfectly steady, so that the point of the ca- theter may be pressed with much greater exactness and effect against the obstacle. In these cases, also, it will be found useful sometimes to support the parietes of the urethra, by pla- cing the fingers of the left hand underneath the canal externally, opposite the situation of the strictured part. Beyond the trian- gular ligament, it is evident that no degree of traction of the penis can exercise any useful influence upon that part of the urethra which intervenes between it and the bladder. There is another mode of introducing the catheter, which, however, is seldom practised at the present day, though it used formerly to be in great repute; it has been named the Tour de Maitre. This method possesses really no advantages over that which has already been described, and is perhaps rather cal- culated to render the operation less easy, by the chances which it affords to the point of the catheter of diverging from the direction of the axis of the urethra, at the moment when the attention of the operator is engaged by the movement which must be given to the handle. The Tour de Maitre consists in introducing the catheter or staff, with its concavity at first directed downwards; the convexity of the instrument being turned towards the pubes. The catheter is held in this posi- tion until its point reaches the bulb of the urethra. Here the point of the catheter must remain perfectly steady while the handle is carried round from left to right with a rapid sweeping movement, describing a large semicircular curve, the centre of which is represented by the point of the catheter as it rests in front of the circular aperture in the triangular ligament