9 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. felt as it is running along enclosed between the layers of the fascia, accompanied by its corresponding veins and nerve. It is in the large quantity of adipose tissue which occupies the ischio-rectal fossse, that the greater number of those ab- scesses form which degenerate into confirmed fistulae in ano. By a reference to the structure of the walls of the ischio-rectal cavity, it will be readily understood why it happens that these fistulae can rarely be cured, except by the division of the exter- nal sphincter muscle ; an operation which allows the walls of the fistula to remain at rest, and to unite with one another by the process of granulation. The superficial fascia of the perinaeum is next to be exposed by removing the layer of adipose and cellular tissue which lies be- tween it and the shin. It is difficult to effect this in corpulent subjects without doing some injury to the fascia, which in such instances is frequently very thin and weak. The best way is to remove the subcutaneous layer carefully by degrees in one spot, until the smooth and regular surface of the fascia is exposed, when it can be followed on each side to its insertions into the edges of the branches of the ischium and ossa pubis, forwards into the scrotum, and posteriorly to its attachment to the trian- gular ligament of the urethra. When these directions have been properly executed, the structures which are exposed to view are as follows : surround- ing the anus is the external sphincter muscle, in front of which is the superficial fascia of the perinaeum ; on each side of the sphincter muscle are the ischio-rectal fossae, emptied of the large masses of adipose tissue which naturally fill them ; the inner walls of the fossse are formed by the fibres of the levator ani muscles, which must be more completely displayed by re- moving a thin fascia that covers them, and which is a prolonga- tion backwards of the triangular ligament of the urethra : pos- teriorly are the coccyx, the inferior border of the great gluteal muscles, and, under cover of these, part of the sacro-sciatic liga- ments ; externally to the tuberosities of the ischia, a portion of the fascia lata of the thigh is exposed. (See Plate I.) Before proceeding any further with the dissection, each of these structures should be more closely examined in succession. The external sphincter of the anus encircles the inferior ex- tremity and orifice of the rectum. The muscle is of an ellipti-