17 DISSECTION OF THE PERIN/EUM. If the accelerator urince is now removed altogether, that portion of the spongy body which had been covered by it, with the.bulb of the urethra, will be completely exposed ta view; on each side, the crura of the penis are seen where they are fixed into the branches of the pubis; the triangular ligament of the urethra occupies the interval between these structures, and, by being prolonged backwards, covers the external surface of the levator ani muscle, separating its fibres from the external sphincter of the anus, and the adipose tissue which filled the ischio-rectal fossse. (See Plate III.) The crura of the penis are the posterior extremities of the corpora cavernosa, and differ only from them in the greater thickness of the fibrous investment which encloses the vascular or erectile tissue, of which their internal structure is composed. The crura of the penis are at first separated from one another by the width of the arch of the pubis ; but as they proceed for- wards and upwards they converge towards the mesial line, and opposite the symphysis unite with one another, forming by their junction the larger part of the body of the organ, assuming the name of the corpora cavernosa penis. The corpora caver- nosa are two cylindrical-shaped bodies, slightly compressed EXPLANATION OF PLATE III. This represents the root of the penis and bulb of the urethra, with the triangular ligament of the urethra ; the muscles of the perinaeum having been cut away. 1. The coccyx. 2. 2. The tuberosities of the ischia. 3. 3. The fascia lata of the thigh. 4. 4. The great sacro-sciatic ligaments. a. The bulb of the urethra. b. The corpus spongiosum urethrae. c. c. The crura of the penis. d. d. The corpora cavernosa penis. e. e. The external sphincter muscle of the anus. f. f. The levatores ani covered by a thin fascia, which is a prolongation of the triangular ligament of the urethra. g. g. The great gluteal muscles. h. h. The triangular ligament of the urethra. The artery of the bulb is seen on the left side as it runs between the crus penis and the bulb of the urethra. C