* Vide Principles of Surgery, by John Bell, Surgeon, vol. iv. p. 210. G2 INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. difficulties occur, owing to the alterations from the natural direc- tion and dimensions of the urethra, which are so frequently in- duced by disease, will be at least able, if he cannot succeed in his endeavour to pass the catheter, to avoid doing more mischief by rude and ill-directed efforts than it may be in the power of his seniors in the profession to repair. tc I do not know,” says Mr. John Bell, “ that even the operation of lithotomy itself is more difficult than that of introducing the catheter; more important it cannot be than an operation which gives relief in accidents and difficulties so extremely common and so very afflicting. There is no operation with which I should more earnestly entreat the young surgeon to make himself acquainted than this of introducing the catheter.”* Catheters are of various shapes and materials : some are flexible, others are inflexible ; and these may be either curved or straight, according to the choice of the operator. The instru- ment in most general use is, as is well known, of silver, and of such a degree of curvature as nearly to correspond with the form of the canal along which it has to pass. Generally speaking, when other circumstances are not opposed to it, a large catheter is preferable to one of small size, as it distends the parietes of the urethra, and is much less likely to be obstructed by any of the irregularities which the internal surface of the canal presents at different points of its extent. Straight ca- theters have been more frequently used in late years, espe- cially since the introduction of the operation of lithotrity, which has been very much indebted to this circumstance for its present improved condition. Introduction of the ordinary curved silver catheter.—Some- times the instrument is introduced when the patient is standing, and then he ought to be placed in front of the surgeon, with his back to the wall, so that he may not change his position during the operation ; when he is lying in bed, he should be placed flat upon his back, in a perfectly straight position, with the knees slightly raised and apart from one another. The operator, standing upon the left side of the bed, takes hold of the penis with the thumb and fore-finger of the left hand, and raises it gently, so as to efface the curve or angle which the penis forms