56 THE INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. erectile tissue of the cavernous body of the penis, and anasto- moses with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, through the apertures of the septum. 6. Arteria dorsalis penis.—When the internal pudic artery has ascended as high as the inferior border of the sub-pubic liga- ment, it turns forwards, and, after traversing the suspensory liga- ment of the penis, runs along the upper surface of that organ as far as the corona glandis, where it divides into branches which are distributed to the prepuce and gland. In its course along the dorsum of the penis, the artery lies close to the mesial line ; and is included, together with its accompanying nerve and vein, in a sheath formed of the fibrous investment of the corpus cavernosum penis. The dorsal arteries, and the arteries of the corpora cavernosa, usually require the employment of the liga- ture after amputation of the penis. Varieties.—The most important variety of the internal pudic artery is that in which this vessel does not leave the pelvis by the great sacro-sciatic notch; but, instead of doing so, runs along the base of the bladder and side of the prostate gland. If the operation of lithotomy were to be performed upon an individual in whom this variety existed, the artery would certainly be cut, and death would probably ensue from the hajmorrhage. It is said that this accident occurred some years ago in one of the hospitals in London. The internal pudic veins and nerves correspond in their course and distribution with the branches of the artery, with the exception of the dorsal vein of the penis, which passes through an aperture in the triangular ligament of the urethra immediately below the sub-pubic ligament, and then joins the prostatic plexus. The lymphatics of the perinseum join with those of the scrotum, and open into the glands of the groin : those of the penis are divided into two sets; one of which is deep-seated, and follows the course of the internal pudic vessels, while the other set is superficial, and, commencing upon the surface of the glans and prepuce, runs along the dorsum of the penis, and joins the inguinal glands.