DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 22 symphysis of the pubis, and is equidistant from the inner edo-e of the branches of the ossa pubis ; this opening is of a circular figure, and about three pr four lines in diameter. The mem- branous portion of the urethra receives, as it passes through, a fibrous investment from the margins of the opening on each side. About half an inch below the symphysis pubis several smaller apertures are formed in the ligament, which serve for the pas- sage of the dorsal arteries, veins, and nerves of the penis. The triangular ligament of the urethra is composed of two layers of fibro-cellular or tendinous structure, the fibres of which are arranged chiefly in a transverse direction. Between the layers are the sub-pubic ligament superiorly, and lower down Cowper’s glands and the arteries of the bulb; besides these structures there is a quantity of tissue, the nature of which has not yet been satisfactorily determined, but which is considered by some anatomists as partaking of a vascular character, while by others it is supposed to be fibrous, if not muscular. Mr. Guthrie has described two muscles in this situation, which, according to his description, surround the membranous portion of the urethra, and may, by their contraction, be a cause of re- tention of urine. Their fibres run transversely, and are at- tached by their extremities, which are elongated, to the rami of the arch of the pubis.* The direction of the triangular ligament is vertical above, ob- lique inferiorly, where it covers the levator ani muscle. Relations —by its anterior surface, with the bulb of the urethra, the muscles of the penis, and the external sphincter; posteriorly, with the membranous portion of the urethra, along which it sends a prolongation that connects it with the pelvic fascia, the levator ani, and Wilson’s muscles. The superficial fascia of the peri- neum is attached to its anterior surface behind the posterior edge of the transverse muscles. The triangular ligament strengthens the rest of the structures which assist in closing up the inferior outlet of the pelvis, and it serves to support the canal of the urethra. It also frequently forms one of the principal obstacles to the introduction of the catheter, when that operation is not skilfully performed. This ligament is divided to a considerable extent in the lateral oper- ations of lithotomy. * Vide Loudon Med. Surg. Journ. 1833, p. 491.