36 DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS number; they are formed by the junction of the duct of the a esicuhi seminal is on each side with the corresponding1 vas deferens ; their length is about an inch, and they run obliquely forwards and upwards, through the substance of the prostate gland, to the point at which they terminate by opening into the prostatic portion of the urethra. As they run parallel with each other in their course through the gland, they are not likely to be wounded in the lateral operation of lithotomy; but one or both must in all probability be divided in the recto-vesical method. The membranous portion of the urethra is the narrowest part of the canal, and extends from the apex of the prostate gland to the bulb of the urethra; its length is about one inch when measured upon the superior surface; but it appears to be some- what less than this inferiorly, on account of the bulb of the ure- thra here encroaching upon it. The triangular ligament divides the membranous portion of the urethra unequally, the larger part being behind, placed between the ligament and the prostate gland. This part, which is surrounded on the sides and inff- riorly by Wilson’s muscles when they exist, is also in very close apposition with the middle division of the rectum, which renders it useful to depress the intestine with the forefinger of the left hand, in order to avoid injuring the coats of the bowel, while the groove of the staff is being exposed with the knife in the opera- tion of lithotomy. The membranous portion of the urethra is invested by a sheath from the pelvic fascia, which joins with the posterior layer of the triangular ligament around the margins of the opening by which the canal passes through. Cowper’s glands are also closely situated beneath it, and the dorsal veins of the penis run along the upper surface in their way to join with the prostatic plexus. What is the nature of the structure which lies between the mucous membrane of the membranous portion, and the sheath which it receives from the pelvic fascia ? According to some, it is a vascular or erectile tissue ; while in the opinion of others it is of a muscular nature ; of which latter character, indeed, it has generally appeared to me to partake most. If this be the case, the old name of muscular portion, which was formerly given to it, would appear to be more applicable than the present one.