THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 74 the instrument is now to be withdrawn, and its place occupied by the fore-finger of the left hand, which serves to determine the size of the opening that has just been made, and also, if possible, the form and position of the calculus as it lies in the bladder. The staff should now be removed. If it is considered necessary to enlarge the wound, it may be done now, by cutting with a straight probe-pointed bistoury either in the direction of the original incision, or by dividing in a similar manner the opposite or right lobe of the gland : this last mode is the practice that is commonly adopted by Mr. Liston in his operations. The forceps are to be introduced along the upper surface of the fore-finger, which still remains in the bladder, and serves as a conductor to these instruments. The blades of the forceps during their introduction should be kept closed, nor should they be expanded as soon as they have reached the interior of the bladder, but used at first as a searcher for the stone. As soon as the stone is felt, their blades may be opened upon it; by so doing, the stone will in general be very readily seized. It sometimes happens that the stone cannot be felt with the finger on account of the great depth of the perinseum, nor can it be readily laid hold of with the forceps. Should the stone, under these circumstances, be lying deeply behind the prostate gland in the bas-fond of the bladder, considerable assistance may sometimes be obtained by the introduction of the fingers of the left hand into the rectum, which will serve to raise it up and place it within the reach of the forceps. When the stone has been seized by the forceps, the efforts at extraction should be made slowly and gradually, with an alter- nating movement laterally of the instrument, observing to follow the direction of the axis of the inferior outlet of the pelvis, which is obliquely downwards and backwards. It is advisable, when any difficulty occurs to the extraction of the stone, to introduce the finger into the wound for the purpose of ascertaining whether the calculus has not been seized by the forceps by its longest diameter ; and, if such should be found to have been the case, to relax the hold which the blades of the forceps have upon it, while its position is altered for one that is more favourable for its removal.