THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. First mode.—A staff is introduced into the bladder, and is held by an assistant in the same manner as has been de- scribed in the account of the bilateral operation. The index- finger of the left hand is introduced into the rectum, and the staff felt as it lies in the membranous portion of the urethra in front of the prostate gland. The bistoury is now introduced into the bowel, its blade lying flat upon the finger; then, turn- ing its edge upwards, an incision of about an inch and a half in length is made in the anterior wall of the rectum, and the external sphincter of the anus, as it is withdrawn. The bis- touiy is introduced a second time into the rectum, and the membranous portion of the urethra opened in front of the pro- state gland ; after which, the knife, its edge being now turned downwards, is pushed along the groove of the staff into the bladder, dividing as it enters the inferior portion of the prostate gland. The staff is now withdrawn, and the forceps intro- duced upon the finger, and the stone laid hold of and extracted. Second mode.— 1 his only differs from the preceding by the greater extent to which the incision that is made in the bladder is carried backwards. It is made to extend about one inch beyond the posterior edge of the prostate gland. The advantages which have been urged in favour of the more general adoption of these operations are the simplicity of their execution, the freedom from all risk of hcemorrhage, and the ease with which very large calculi can be extracted from the bladder. But these advantages, important as they are, appear to be more than counterbalanced by the frequency of recto-vesical fistulse, extensive suppurations within the pelvis, and injuries of the common seminal ducts. In one case, the recto-vesical cul-de-sac of the peritonseum was laid open.* The operation of lithotomy above the pubis.—It will be recollected that, when the bladder is distended, the portion of its anterior surface Avhich is uncovered by the peritonseum rises into the hypogastric region, where it is placed behind the recti muscles. In this situation it may be readily exposed by an incision through the inferior part of the linea alba. In performing this operation, the principal danger which requires * Vide Nouveaux 'Elements de Mddecine Operatoire, par A. L. M. Vel- peau ; Paris, 1832, tom. iii. p. 793.