48 THE RECTUM. always as distinct in some subjects as in others; and in most can scarcely be said to differ from the anterior fibres of the levator ani. These muscles may, by a spasmodic contraction of their fibres, diminish the calibre of the membranous portion of the urethra, which they almost surround; and thus form a tem- porary obstruction to the exit of the urine, or to the introduc- tion of a bougie or catheter into the bladder. The muscle of the left side is divided in the lateral operation of lithotomy. THE KECTUM. The rectum is the last portion of the large intestine, and has probably derived its appellation from the straight form which it usually presents in the lower animals. In the human sub- ject the rectum, although it is less curved than many other parts of the intestines, presents nevertheless several changes in its course which are deserving of notice, since they ought to be borne in mind during the introduction of bougies in the treatment of strictures of this part of the alimentary canal. The most re- markable of these curvatures are in the direction of the long axis of the bowel. The rectum is about twelve inches, sometimes a little more, in length; it extends from the termination of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, which is situated in the left iliac fossa, to the anus. At its commencement the rectum is placed opposite to the left sacro-iliac articulation; but as it descends it inclines a little towards the right; so as to reach the mesial line opposite the curved part of the sacrum, where it again changes its direction, which hitherto has been nearly vertical, and be- comes horizontal ; which new direction it continues to hold until it arrives opposite the extremity of the coccyx, where it again bends upqn itself, inclining downwards and backwards to reach its termination at the anus. The two last-mentioned cur- vatures of the rectum may be said to divide the bowel into three portions, the direction and relations of which greatly differ from one another. The first or superior portion is about five or six inches in length, and extends from the commencement of the bowel as far as opposite the lower third of the sacrum. Its direction is nearly