19 DISSECTION OF THE PERIN/EUM. The glans penis is so named from its figure, which, when partially covered by the prepuce, resembles an acorn. It is of a conical figure, its base being seated upon the anterior extremi- ties of the corpora cavernosa; at its apex is a vertical slit or fissure, which corresponds to the external opening of the urethra (meatus urinanus). The base of the glans presents a thick rounded and elevated margin (corona glandis), which is dis- posed so obliquely that the superior surface of the glans is three or four times as long as the inferior. Behind the corona glandis is a deep groove from which the mucous membrane which lines the internal surface of tbe prepuce is reflected upon the surface of the glans; here are numerous sebaceous follicles which are named glandules Tysoni. The inferior surface of the glans is slightly grooved for the insertion of the small band (freenumpreeputii) which fixes the prepuce to the glans, and pre- vents its being retracted to too great a degree. The glandulm Tysoni are frequently the seat of venereal ul- ceration, which may affect either one or many of them at one time. The sore is of a circular form, excavated, with sharp edges ; when there are several of these affected at one time, it constitutes the form of the disease which has been named Con- fluent Chancre. When a chancre occurs upon the freenum, it frequently perforates that fold of the mucous membrane, which should then be cut completely across as the first step towards promoting the cure of the sore. The bulb of the urethra is the posterior extremity of the corpus spongiosum, and is so named from its figure. The greater part of the bulb is placed below the canal of the urethra, and lies upon the anterior surface of the triangular ligament, to which it is firmly fixed by a fibrous investment which it receives from the ligament. Its structure consists internally of a large quantity of erectile tissue, which is a continuation of that of the corpus spongiosum. The canal of the urethra presents a slight depression in its inferior surface opposite the bulb, which is often the cause of some difficulty being experienced in the introduction of a catheter or bougie, by entangling the point of the instrument. When the lining membrane of the urethra is tom at this point, a copious haemorrhage is a common result. The corpora cavernosa and the bulb of the urethra re- ceive large branches from the internal pudic arteries. c 2