THE INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 52 p. 101. cavity of the pelvis, the great pudic artery lies internal and a little anterior to the sciatic artery and nerve. In this, the first part of its course, the artery is situated in front of the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus of nerves, and behind the posterior surface of the bladder and the vesicula seminalis, to both of which structures it furnishes a few small branches. In the second part of its course, the internal pudic artery crosses over the posterior surface of the spinous process of the ischium near to its extremity, and immediately afterwards re-enters the pelvis by the smaller sacro-sciatic opening, passing at the same time upon the inner surface of the tendon of the obturator inter- nus muscle. Where the artery crosses the spine of the ischium, it is covered by the shin, some of the fibres of the gluteus maximus muscle, and by the great sacro-sciatic ligament. In this part of its course it gives off a few delicate branches, which ramify in the soft parts surrounding the hip-joint. If an incision of three or four inches in length is made over the spine of the ischium in the direction of the fibres of the gluteus maximus muscle, by separating some of these fibres and cutting across the great sciatic ligament, the vessel can be ex- posed and a ligature passed around it. This is an operation, however, that has hitherto been practised onlyupon the dead body. In a case mentioned by Dr. Harrison, in his work upon the arteries, considerable benefit resulted from the employment of pressure over this part of the course of the internal pudic artery. The case was one that occurred in St. Thomas’s Hos- pital, under the care of Mr. Travers ; the patient was very ema- ciated, and much reduced by an alarming haemorrhage from a phagedenic ulcer upon the glans penis, which had resisted all the topical means that had been previously employed.* When the internal pudic artery has re-entered the pelvis, it runs forwards and a little upwards in a gently curved direction as far as the inferior border of the sub-pubic ligament, where it turns sharply forwards to reach the dorsal surface of the penis, along which it runs to arrive at the base of the glans penis, where it terminates by dividing into several small branches for the supply of it and the prepuce. Between the point where it re-enters the pelvis, and the junction of the branches of the ischium and * See Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries, by R. Harrison, M. D. vol. ii.