DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE FELVIS. 27 of the fibres of the gluteus maximus, and of the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, must be divided, together with the sciatic nerves and the larger branches of the internal iliac artery and vein which issue from the pelvis by the great sacro-sciatic notch. Dissect the fibres of the levator ani from their attachment to the posterior surface of the os pubis, and reflect the muscle with the spine of the ischium downwards, so as to expose the prostate gland, membranous portion of the urethra, and the middle por- tion of the rectum. After this, the pelvic fascia should be traced, and it will be found that at the base of the prostate gland it divides into two laminae ; one of which, and it is the weakest, ascends and covers the bladder and first portion of the rectum ; whilst the other, much the stronger, forms a sheath for the prostate gland and the vesiculse seminales, and is continuous along the membranous portion of the urethra, and the middle division of the rectum, with the posterior surface of the triangu- lar ligament of the urethra. When the pelvic fascia has been thus followed in all its extent, remove the coverings or sheaths which it furnishes to the prostate gland and membranous portion of the urethra; expose also the muscular coat of the horizontal or middle por- tion of the rectum, the vesiculse seminales, the vasa cleferentia, and the ureter. Lay open now the peritonaeum, in order to show the point where that membrane is reflected from the rectum upon the posterior surface of the bladder, and measure the distance of this reflection from the base of the prostate gland, and from the external surface of the perinseum. When these directions have been executed, the parts which remain exposed to view are the following, and they may be examined separately in detail. In front is the cut surface of the bone of the pubis, and posteriorly the cartilaginous surface of the sacrum, by which it was united to the ilium; underneath is the coccyx. Below the symphysis pubis is seen the trian- gular ligament, containing, between the two layers of which it is composed, Cowper’s glands, the arteries of the bulb, and, according to Mr. Guthrie, some muscular fibres. In front of this ligament are the bulb of the urethra and the last portion of the rectum, which are separated from one another by a small triangular-shaped interval (the recto-urethral triangle'), which is occupied by the central point of the perinseum, some cellular