DISSECTION OF THE PERINJEUM. 13 which will show more completely the attachments of the fascia to the edges of the arch of the pubis, and the mode in which it incloses the root of the penis and its muscles, as it were, in a sheath. In dissecting the muscles of the penis it is necessary that the edge of the knife should be carried in the same direc- tion as that of their fibres, for they are very delicate and easily injured. While removing the cellular tissue which fills up the space between the accelerator urinse and the erectores penis, the small arteries, which are named superjicialis and transversus perinai, branches of the internal pudic arteries, may be also dissected and preserved :—the first of these runs forwards be- tween the erector penis and the accelerator urinse, and the other along the posterior border of the transverse muscle. Each of these arteries is accompanied by corresponding branches of the nerve and veins. A delicate fascia, which closely invests each of the muscles of the penis, must be removed before the direction of their fibres can be clearly seen. (See Plate II.) The erector penis is a long narrow muscle placed beneath EXPLANATION OF PLATE II. This represents the muscles of the perinaeum. The superfi- cial fascia has been removed. 1. The common central tendinous point of the perinaeum. 2. 2. The fascia lata of the thighs. 3. 3. The tuberosities of the ischia. 4. 4. The corpora cavernosa of the penis. 5. The corpus spongiosum urethrae. 6. The coccyx. 7. The great sacro-sciatic ligament. a. a. The erector muscles of the penis. b. b. The accelerator urinae muscle. c. The raphe or fibro-cellularline from which the fleshy fibres of the accelerator urinae muscle take their origin. d. d. The transverse muscles of the perinaeum. e. e. The external sphincter muscle of the anus. f. f. The levatores ani. g. g. The great gluteal muscles. A triangular space is observed between the accelerator urinaj and the erector penis muscles, the base of which is formed by the transverse muscle. The depth of this space is li- mited by the triangular ligament of the urethra.