54 THE INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. origin, and cross tlie adipose mass which fills up the interval be- tween the tuberosity of the ischium and the inferior extremity of the rectum, upon which they are finally distributed. In their course across the ischio-rectal fossae, they furnish several small branches to the adipose tissue; whilst their terminal branches form a vascular chain around the anus by anastomosing with each other, the transversales perinaei, and the middle haemorrlioidal arteries. These arteries in the healthy state of the parts about the anus are very small, and when divided, as they sometimes are in the lateral operation of lithotomy, seldom give any trouble from haemorrhage ; but the case is different when they have been wounded in the operations which are performed for the cure of fistulae in ano, or the removal of tumours in this region. In such circumstances they are frequently enlarged, and do not re- tract as usual in consequence of the thickened and condensed state of the tissues ; and if care is not taken either to ligature them, or to close their orifices with a well-applied compress, the patient is almost sure to lose a considerable quantity of blood after he becomes warm in his bed, when the reaction consequent upon the operation has set in. 2. Arteria superjicialis periruei.—This is a branch of con- siderable size; it arises from the internal pudic artery opposite the posterior border of the transverse muscle of the perinseum, underneath which it commonly turns in its course to reach the triangular space between the accelerator urinse and erector penis muscles, in which it runs in rather a tortuous manner until it reaches the scrotum, to the coats of which it is finally distri- buted. As this artery runs between the muscles above-men- tioned, it gives small branches for the supply of both, as well as to the cutaneous coverings of the perinseum. As the direction of the course of this artery is parallel to that of the external incision made in the lateral operation of lithotomy, it frequently escapes being wounded. No precise rule, however, can be given by which it may be surely avoided by the knife; which circumstance is the less to be regretted, as its division is seldom followed by any important haemorrhage. 3. Arteria transversalis periruei is sometimes a branch from the preceding, and given off from it as it is about to cross