50 THE RECTUM. Internal surface.—The mucous membrane of the rectum is very thick and vascular? it is usually found to present a great num- ber of folds or rugae, the larger proportion of which are disposed transversely, while some others are directed longitudinally, and have been called the columns of the rectum. Some of the trans- verse folds are much more prominent than the rest, and have been described by Mr. Houston as having the appearance of valves.* Indigestible substances, that have been accidentally swallowed with the food, such as fish-bones, &c. the surfaces of which are irregular and pointed, are sometimes arrested in their progress through the rectum by some of the numerous depres- sions which abound upon the internal surface of the intestine, especially just within the anus : these foreign bodies excite irri- tation by their presence, and may lead to the formation of ab- scesses, which frequently end in the establishment of a fistula in ano. The middle portion of the rectum is much wider than either of the other divisions of the bowel, and occasionally mounts very high upon each side of the prostate gland, which then appears to be sunk as it were into the upper surface of the intestine. Near the anus the cavity of the rectum becomes suddenly constricted; hence the radiated appearance of the folds of the mucous membrane in this situation. The mucous membrane of the rectum is connected with the middle or muscular coat by a layer of cellular tissue, so lax and extensible in its texture as to allow, not unfrequently, of the dis- placement of the first to a considerable degree, without being accompanied by any alteration in the position of the last. This is the case in most forms of prolapsus ani. The muscular tunic of the rectum is formed of two layers of fibres which follow different directions; the external or superficial layer is composed of fibres disposed longitudinally; * A ccording to Mr. Houston, “ three is the average number of these valves; sometimes four, and sometimes only two, are present in a marked degree. The position of the largest and most regular valve is about three inches from the anus, opposite the base of the bladder. The fold of next most frequent existence is placed at the upper end of the rectum. The third in order oc- cupies a position about midway between these; and the fourth, or that most rarely present, is attached to the side of the gut, about one inch above the anus. The form of these valves is semilunar; their convex borders are fixed to the sides of the rectum, occupying in their attachment from one-third to one-half of the circumference of the gut.”—See Observations on the Mucous Membrane of the Rectum, by J. Houston, Dub. liosp. Rep. vol. v. p. 158.