11 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. with the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, which arc here more strongly developed than elsewhere, and which in conse- quence have been named the sphincter ani internus. The ac- tion of this muscle is to close the extremity of the rectum, and prevent the escape of its contents. It belongs to the class of voluntary muscles, and is supplied by a branch from the pudic nerve. This muscle is cut across in the recto-vesical operation of lithotomy and in the operation for fistula in ano, and occasion- ally also to promote the cure of painful and obstinate ulcera- tions near the margin of the anus. The internal sphincter muscle consists, as has been already mentioned, of the most inferior of the circular fibres of the mus- cular coat of the rectum, and which are more strongly developed than the rest. Circular in its form, the muscle embraces the mucous membrane of the bowel, and is covered externally by the external sphincter. The levator ani muscle is but partially seen in this stage of the dissection, as only those of its fibres have been exposed which are attached at the circumference of the muscle to the spinous processes of the ischia, and to the tendinous band which stretches across from them to the posterior surface of the bodies of the ossa pubis ; which band is situated at the summit of the ischio-rectal fossae, in the angle that is formed by the sepa- ration from one another of the pelvic and obturator fasciae. The fibres of the muscle are inserted into the sides of the coccyx, and between the extremity of that bone and the anus they are blended with one another by means of a common band of junc- tion, which is situated above the posterior portion of the exter- nal sphincter of the anus ; more anteriorly the remaining fibres descend to be inserted between the external sphincter and the muscular coat of the rectum, having attachment to both of these structures. The structure of the muscle is chiefly fleshy, though it is slightly tendinous where it is inserted into the coccyx, and the raphe between the extremity of that bone and the anus.* The superficial fascia of the perinceum is situated in the anterior or urethral division of the perinacal region, and is a thin * Fora more complete description of this muscle, see page 47.