DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. 4-1 protruded in the intervals between the muscular fibres in such a manner as to form distinct pouches or little sacs, in which calculi are sometimes deposited. It may be mentioned, however, that the fibres of one stratum are not altogether distinct from those of the others ; but that they frequently intermingle and are interlaced with each other at dilferent points. Some circular fibres have been noticed by Sir Charles Bell as surrounding the orifice of the urethra, and have been named by him the sphincter muscle of the bladder; but these are not always found to present very distinctly the appearance that he has described. When the interior of the bladder has been laid open by a longitudinal incision made upon its anterior surface, the mucous membrane that lines it may be next examined. It is continuous with the mucous membrane which lines the ureters and the urethra. When the bladder is empty and contracted, the mucous membrane is thrown into numerous transverse folds or rugae. It is very vascular, especially towards the neck of the bladder, where numerous veins are placed underneath it; when healthy, it is of a pale roseate hue. A large number of mu- cous follicles abound in the region of the neck of the blad- der. Underneath the mucous membrane, a layer of cellular tissue is placed, which has been sometimes called the vascular or nervous coat. The “ trigone vesicaV is the name that has been given to the small triangular space included betAveen the orifice of the urethra in front, and those of the ureters posteriorly. The mucous membrane Avhere it covers this triangular space is perfectly smooth, pale, and seems to be endowed with a more acute sen- sibility to impressions than any other part of it. The base of the trigone is situated posteriorly, and is formed by a line ex- tending: across from the orifice of one ureter to the other. Where the urethra commences, at the apex of the trigone vesical, a small eminence may be observed to project in the mesial line, which has received the name of “ luetle vesicale” or “ uvula vesiccc.'n Sir Charles Bell has described two small fasciculi of muscular fibres Avhich lie underneath the mucous membrane on each side of the trigone, and reach from the orifices of the ureters to the uvula vesicse, into Avhich they are inserted. These bands have