4 DISSECTION OF THE PERINJEUM. more by placing a block of wood underneath the sacrum. The rectum is to be moderately distended with a little cotton wool introduced into the anus. Before commencing the incisions of the skin, which are necessary for the exposure of the subjacent structures, it will be found of great use to refer for a moment to a dried preparation of the bones and ligaments of the pelvis, in order to determine more accurately upon the recent subject the osseous boundaries of the perinseal region. As continual reference will be made in the course of the dissection to the bones of the pelvis, the dried preparation should be placed upon the table so as to be near at hand. Extent of the perinceal region.—Anatomists have differed much from each other in their description of the extent and boundaries of the perinseum, and the greater number perhaps have restricted the application of the term to the space which is included between the posterior fold of the scrotum and the anus. More lately, however, it has become the custom to include the anal region also ; and then the boundaries of the perinseum will extend from the arch of the pubis, which is in front, to the tip of the coccyx and the great sacro-sciatic liga- ments behind ; the branches of the ischia and ossa pubis, and the tuberosities of the former bones, will form its limits laterally. In the recent subject the inferior edge of the large gluteal muscles may be added, as forming a part of the postero-lateral boundary. In this manner of viewing it, the perinseal region will present an ovoid figure, the largest extremity of which is directed backwards, and the narrow or elongated one anteriorly. If a line is drawn transversely between the tuberosities of the ischia, the perinseal region will be divided into two compart- ments of nearly equal size : that which is posterior to this line will contain the anus, with the inferior portion of the rectum ; while that in front of it will comprise the urethra and the root of the penis, together with the numerous structures which are connected with them. The first of these may be termed the anal, and the second the urethral division of the perinseal region. The urethral division, or the perinseum strictly so called, may be said to present the form of a triangle, the base of which, represented by the transverse line drawn between the tuberosities of the ischia, is a little less in its extent than the