55 THE INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. the transverse muscle. This artery runs along the posterior edge of the muscle just named, until it reaches the central point of the perinseum, where it divides into smaller branches, which anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the external lnemorrhoidal arteries between the bulb and the rec- tum. This vessel is cut across in the lateral operation of lithotomy; but its size is too insignificant to deserve any attention. 4. Arteria corporis bulbosi is the most important of the branches of the internal pudic artery; it is a short but large vessel, and is given off by the internal pudic as it is passing opposite the attachment of the crus penis to the bone. After its origin, it runs transversely inwards, placed between the layers of the triangular ligament; and, near the margin of the opening which transmits the membranous portion of the urethra, it enters the bulb, and is distributed to the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethrse. A little before entering the bulb, this artery gives one or two small branches to Cowper s glands. (See the wood-cut at p. 21, figures 6, 6.) When the artery of the bulb pursues the course that has been just described, it is not liable to be divided by the knife in the operation of lithotomy, unless the incisions are made much too high, and the urethra opened upon the staff much further from the prostate gland than is proper. But in some instances the artery of the bulb arises from the internal pudic much nearer the tuberosity of the ischium, and then it runs so ob- liquely upwards and inwards in its course to reach the bulb, that, should the operation of lithotomy be performed, the vessel can scarcely escape being wounded. It is believed by many surgeons, that the severe hemorrhage which sometimes follows the performance of the lateral operation of lithotomy is more frequently the consequence of a wound of the artery of the bulb, than of the internal pudic, as commonly supposed. 5. Arteria corporis cavernosi penis.—This branch springs from the internal pudic artery as it runs under the inner edge of the crus penis, into which it immediately enters, and then runs forward in the corpus cavernosum, inclining towards the septum pecteniforme, upon which it ramifies. This artery supplies the