38 DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. and backwards, extending from the urachus to the point where the peritonseum is reflected from the rectum upon the bladder. The posterior surface is covered in the whole of its extent by the peritonaeum. Some of the folds of the small intestine usually separate it from the first portion of the rectum, except when the bladder is very largely distended. When the bladder is ruptured by a fall or from a blow upon the lower part of the belly, the rent is usually situated in some part of the posterior surface ; which is probably to be attributed to the unyielding nature of the peritonaeum which covers it at this part. The lateral surfaces are of greater extent inferiorly than superiorly ; the peritonaeum covers the sides of the bladder to a very small extent superiorly, as it soon leaves them to be re- flected upon the sides of the pelvis, where it forms what are called the false lateral ligaments, of the bladder : a quantity of loose cellular tissue invests the remainder of the lateral surfaces, and separates them from the pelvic fascia. The vasa deferentia, and the ligamentous remains of the hypogastric arteries, lie in this cellular tissue as they descend obliquely along the sides of the bladder. The summit of the bladder, or, as it is sometimes termed, the fundus, may be said to be formed by the junction supe- riorly of the preceding surfaces. It is covered posteriorly, and partially upon the sides, by the peritonseum. From its cen- tre extends upwards to the umbilicus a fibro-cellular cord, somewhat triangular in its shape, and named the urachus. This is the remains of a hollow tube which in the early stages of foetal existence extends from the bladder to the umbilicus, where it is connected with the membranes of the ovum. Lying between the linea alba and the peritonseum, and having attach- ment inferiorly to the muscular coat of the bladder, it serves as one of the principal means of retaining the bladder, during its distension, against the posterior surface of the anterior wall of the abdomen. The two ligamentous bands which result from the obliteration of the hypogastric arteries also extend, on each side of the urachus, from near the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. The base of the bladder, sometimes also called the “ bas- fondf is that part of the viscus which rests upon the middle portion of the rectum, the vesicular seminales, and vasa defer-