4'2 DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. been named by bim the “ muscles of the ureters and may serve to maintain the obliquity of the course of the ureters through the coats of the bladder, notwithstanding the different degrees of distension to which it is subject. The arteries of the bladder are furnished from the vesical blanches of the internal iliac artery, besides a few ramusculi which come from the middle hsemorrhoidal and internal pudic arteries. These vessels are chiefly distributed upon the inferior surface and sides of the bladder. The veins, which are few and small in the young subject, form in the adult a considerable plexus around the neck of the blad- der and prostate gland. They receive the dorsal veins of the penis, with some branches from the sides of the prostate gland and the adjacent structures, and terminate by opening into the internal iliac veins. The veins forming this plexus are fre- quently varicose in old persons, and thus become capable of fur- nishing a considerable quantity of blood when cut in the ope- ration of lithotomy. The nerves of the bladder are partly derived from the sacral plexuses of the cerebro-spinal axis, and partly from the hypogas- tric plexuses of the sympathetic system. The ureters are the long cylindrical-shaped tubes which serve to convey the urine from the kidneys into the bladder. Each ureter is about eighteen inches long, and of the size of an ordi- nary quill. In its course the ureter crosses over the upper part of the psoas muscle, passing underneath the spermatic vessels ; opposite the base of the sacrum it crosses the common iliac artery and vein near their termination in the external and in- ternal iliacs ; and still lower down in the cavity of the pelvis it crosses the vas deferens, which lies upon its inner side near the point where it is about to enter the bladder. The meters traverse the coats of the bladder very obliquely, and, on ar- riving upon its inner surface, terminate at the posterior angles of the trigone vesical. Where they pass through the coats of the bladder, the ureters are narrower than elsewhere. In their course the ureters are closely applied to the external surface of the peritonaeum, and arc carried along with this membrane when it is lifted up from the subjacent structures, as in the operation of placing a ligature upon the common iliac artery. The interior of the ureters is lined with mucous membrane which is continuous with that of the bladder. Some of the muscular fibres of the