23, UPPER GOWER STREET, AND 27, IVY LANE. 9 London Latin Grammar; in- cluding the Eton Syntax and Prosody in English,accompanied with Notes. Edited by aGRADUATK of the University of Oxford. Twelfth Edition. 12mo, 2s. (id. cloth. New Latin Reading Book ; con- sisting of short Sentences, easy Narrations, and Descriptions, selected from Caesar's Gallic War; arranged in systematic pro- gression. With a Dictionary. 12mo. 3s. 6U. cloth. ‘ ‘ The plan of this work differs in one important point from other works of a similar kind. The sentences have been selected exclusively from Ctcsar’s Commentary on the Gallic War, instead of being taken from different authors, as has usually been the case. There is an obvious advantage in this plan ; the same words are con- tinually repeated by the same author in a simple narrative; and the pupil thus becomes accus- tomed to his style, and finds the work of transla- tion grow easier every day, which cannot be the case when the extracts arc taken from many dif- ferent authors, whose style must of course vary exceedingly.”—Preface. Tacitus. Germania, Agricola, and First Book of the Annals. With Notes translated into English, from Ruperti, Passow, Walch, and BOtticher’s remarks on the style of Tacitus. 12mo. 5s. cloth. Virgil's iEneid. The First Six Books, with an interpaged translation, line for line, and numerous Notes. Second Edition. 12mo. (is. (id. Cicero. — Pro Lege Manilia. 12mo, sewed, Is. ENGLISH. Latham's English Language. Second Edition revised. 1 vol. 8vo. 15s. (See page 3.) Latham's First Outlines of Lo- gic, applied to Grammar and Etymology. 12mo, 1.?. (id. cloth. Latham’s Elementary English Grammar. For the Use of Schools. Second Edition. 12mo. 4s. (id. cloth. “ His comparison of the old Saxon forms with the modem English, his classification of verbs under the heads of weak and strong forms, and his remarks on the derivation and construction of English words, afford evidence of laborious inves- tigation and research, and arc a valuable contribu- tion towards reducing our language within its proper limits.”—Classical Museum. Green's Questions on the above, with an Index of Reference. 12mo. cloth, Is. (id. ITALIAN. Panizzi’s Extracts from Italian Proso Writers. One thick volume, 12mo. 10s. G<1. boards. Panizzi's Elementary Italian Grammar. 12mo. 3s. bound. FRENCH. Complete Course of the French Language. By P. F. Mkrlrt, Professor of French in University College, London. Merlet's French Grammar, divided into Three Parts ; the Pronuncia- tion, the Accidence, and the Syntax. New Edition. 12mo. 5s. 6(1. bound. Merlet's Key to the French Grammar. 12mo. 3s. 6d. bound. Merlet’s Le Traducteur; or, His- torical, Dramatic, and Miscellaneous Selections from the best French Writers; accompanied by Explanatory Notes; a selection of Idioms, &c. New Edition. 12mo. 5s. (id. bound. Merlet’s Petit Tableau Litteraire de la France; containing an Essay on French Literature, with Specimens of the best Authors, from the earliest period to the present time; a sequel to “ Le Tra- ducteur.” 12mo. 6s. bound. Merlet's Dictionary of Difficul- ties; Appendix to the French Grammar. Second Edition. 12mo. 4s. bound. Con- taining an explanation of the peculiarities of the French Language—Complete List of Adjectives, showing why they are placed before or after the Substantive—Compre- hensive List of Idioms, and Proverbs now in use — List of Synonymes — Mercantile Expressions, Phrases, and Letters, &c. &o. HEBREW. Plurwitz's Grammar of the He- brew Language. 8vo. 13s. cloth. Or in Two Parts, sold separately: Elkmknts. 8vo. Cloth, 4s. fid. Etymology and Syn- tax. 8vo. Cloth, 9s. “ Mr. Hurwitz’s Grammar is the best ele- mentary work of its kind extant in the English lan- guage.”—Journal of Education, Mo. 9. Greenfield’s Book of Genesis in English Hebrew, accompanied by an Inter- linear Translation, substantially the same as the authorised English version ; Philo- logical Notc8,and a Grammatical Introduc- tion. Fourth Edition. 8vo. 8s. cloth. With the original Text in Hebrew characters at the end. 8vo. 10s. Gd. cloth.