dissection of the organs of the pelvis. 29 and the prostate gland ; above these the anterior ligaments of the bladder; below them the middle or horizontal portion of the rectum ; and still farther behind are situated the bladder, vesiculse seminales, and the perpendicular portion of the rec- tum, covered by the peritonaeum, which passes from it upon the posterior surface of the bladder. (See Plate IV.) The peritonaeum, where it passes from the rectum upon the posterior surface of the bladder, forms, on each side of the cul-de-sac which it presents here, two folds, which have been named the posterior ligaments of the bladder, though without any good reason, for they are rather calculated to facilitate the changes which are produced in the position of this viscus, by its different states of repletion and vacuity, than to maintain it in any one fixed relation. The peritonaeum is reflected from the posterior surface of the bladder at its summit, where the ligamentous remains of the urachus ascend to the umbilicus. On each side, the vasa deferentia and umbilical arteries limit the extent to which this membrane covers the bladder. The distance from the base of the prostate gland at which the peritonseum is reflected from the rectum upon the posterior surface of the bladder, is sometimes not more than one quarter of an inch ; so that it may be wounded by an incautious operator in performing the operation of puncture of the bladder from the rectum. A layer of cellular tissue,* of a very loose and easily disten- sible nature, is placed underneath the peritoneeum, and sepa- rates it from the pelvic fascia; this cellular tissue allows the changes of relative position which so frequently take place be- tween the bladder and rectum to be very easily effected. In corpulent subjects this tissue is much loaded with adipose substance, which renders it difficult to distinguish it from the pelvic fascia, which, in such cases, is very thin and de- licate. The pelvic fascia (recto-vesical fascia, fascia pelvica) is the membrane which lines the whole of the cavity of the pelvis, and is placed between the peritonamm and the muscles. To expose it, it is only necessary to remove the peritonaeum and sub- serous cellular tissue; which may be done with the handle * The subserous cellular tissue,—fascia propria of the French anatomists.