28 DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF THE PELVIS. tissue, and the superficial fascia as it passes behind the trans- verse muscles of the perineum to join the triangular ligament; still more anteriorly are observed the body of the penis, with the left crus cut from the ramus of the pubis which has been removed, and the scrotum. Behind the triangular ligament are the greater part of the membranous portion of the urethra, EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV. This represents the view of the parts in the male pelvis, as obtained by removing the os innominatum of the left side. 1. The os pubis of the left side divided by the saw, about half an inch from the symphysis. 2. The sacrum. The figure is placed upon the cartilaginous surface of the bone, by which it was articulated with the left os ilii, which has been removed. 3. The spinous process of the ischium, which has been sawn across and left attached to the pelvic fascia. The hook is inserted into the pelvic fascia, which it holds gently upon the stretch. 6 3 1 4. The penis lying against the right thigh. 5. The scrotum. 6. The suspensory ligament of the penis. a. The bladder slightly distended. b. The prostate gland. c. The membranous portion of the urethra. d. The bulb of the urethra. e. The crus penis of the left side, which has been cut from its attachment to the branch of the ischium. f. The levator ani muscle of the left side dissected from its attachments to the sides of the rectum and bladder, from which it has been turned down, it conceals the coccyx. g. h. i. mark the rectum. The letter g. is placed upon the first portion of the intestine ; h. upon the second, or horizontal portion ; and i. upon the third, or oblique. Ic. The anus. l. The triangular ligament of the urethra. m. The pelvic fascia inserted upon the base of the prostate gland. n. Cowper’s gland of the left side. o. The ureter of the same side. p. The vas deferens, cut across where it is leaving the side of the bladder in its course to the internal abdominal ring. q. The vesicula seminalis. r.r.r. The divided edge of the peritonaeum covering the poste- rior surface of the bladder and the rectum. The cul-de- sac which this membrane forms where it passes from the rectum upon the bladder, is seen to be situated near the posterior extremity of the vesicula seminalis, and not far from the base of the prostate gland. s. The trunk of the common iliac artery cut across in making the section of the pelvis.