15 ADAPTATION OF FOOD CHAT. Ill I. Different Ages Infants should, if possible, be fed on their mothers’ milk. When circumstances prevent this, substitutes are required, for which special recipes and directions will be found in the School Cookery Book. The food of children from weaning to the age of seven or eight years should consist chiefly of milk and eggs taken separately or made into well-cooked puddings, with bread, semolina, macaroni, rice, etc. Their digestion is not strong enough to assimilate much vegetable or animal food, as these contain much fibre, which is diffi- cult to digest. Meat, fish, soups, and vegetables should, however, be occasionally given in small quantities. Fixed hours for meals are important, as when regularly given, the stomach becomes prepared to receive them. The intervals should not be longer than four hours.1 Young persons (say from eight to twenty years of age) require a larger quantity of all kinds of food, in proportion to their size, than full-grown persons. The exercise natural to the young uses up much of the heat-giving foods, and increases the waste of the body; the digestion of the young is generally active; and, besides, fresh materials are in constant demand to pro- vide for the growth of the body. They should have meals of warm food (more easily digested than cold) at intervals of about four hours ; the chief meal—dinner—• should be in the middle of the day. Milk and eggs 1 Children should from the first be taught to chew their food well, not only to break down the fibre of meat, but to mix the soft starchy foods with saliva, especially in eating rice, sago, etc., puddings, and thus enable them to undergo the first important change in preparing them to become part of the human body. Children should not be encouraged to eat between meals as it spoils the appetite for regular food. If really hungry, a piece of dry bread only should be given, as this will satisfy a child’s hunger without tempting it to eat unduly at irregular hours.