2220006 8562Med K39373PUDDINGS AND PASTRYWORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS, ‘ Those excellent cookery books that have made Mrs. De Sails an authority in every kitchen that has any pretensions to high art.’ Scotsman. SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Eleventh Edition. Revised and Enlarged. 8vo. is. 6d. boards. ENTREES A LA MODE. Sixth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. IS. 6d. boards. SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE. Third Edition. Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards. OYSTERS A LA MODE. Second Edition. Fcp. 8VO. IS. 6d. boards. CAKES AND CONFECTIONS A LA MODE. Second Edition. Fcp. 8vo. i^. 6d. boards. SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE. Third Edition, fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards. DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE. Second Edition. Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards. DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY A LA MODE. Fcp. 8vo. IS. 6d. boards. PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE. Second Edition. Fcp. 8vo. ij. 6d. boards. WRINKLES AND NOTIONS FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d. cloth. TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES. Second Editioc. Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards. London : LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE BY MRS DE SALTS AUTHORESS OF ‘ CAKES AND CONFECTIONS X LA MODE* ‘SAVOURIES X LA MODE* ‘entries X LA MODE* ‘OYSTERS X LA MODE* ‘ SWEETS A LA MODE’ ‘soups and dressed fish X LA mode’ ‘vegetables X LA mode’ AND ‘dressed game AND POULTRY X LA MODE* * bcavcns! XKUbat stuff ts berc ? ‘ Shakespeare THIRD EDITION LONDON LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. AND NEW YORK : 15 EAST i6‘i» STREET 1891 All rights reservedPRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE LONDON wellComf institute LIB^'ARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. &T .PREFACE. In bringing out, according to the request of many of my readers, ‘ Puddings and Pastry,’ with a com- panion volume, ‘Cakes and Confections,’ I finish my a la mode series of Cookery Books. These two latter, like my former books, have been carefully selected from old family recipes and demonstration lessons, and the kind assistance of gastronomic writers. Some are very old recipes, but I trust they will be none the less acceptable and palatable on that account. One or two are original. HARRIET A. DE SALIS. Hampton Lea, Sutton : 1889.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE, Albert Pudding. Beat up two eggs, the yolks and whites sepa- rately ; beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and mix with the yolks ; take two ounces of sugar, two ounces of flour, and two ounces of bread- crumbs, four ounces of sultana raisins, and a tea- spoonful of strained lemon-juice. The whites, which should have been whisked to a froth, should now be added. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould and serve with wine sauce. Alena Pudding. Take half a pound of butter and beat it to a cream, throwing in by degrees four ounces of sugar. Mix well, then dredge in six ounces of flour, add four ounces of currants, and moisten with two whole eggs ; put in a buttered mould, tie in a cloth, and boil from four to five hours. B2 PUDDINGS AND PAST'D V Almond Pudding (good). Blanch and beat to a paste four ounces of sweet almonds and six bitter ones, adding a little rose-water to prevent oiling. Add a few lumps of loaf sugar which have been well rubbed on the rind of a lemon, a piece of butter the size of an egg, previously melted in a glassful of warm cream, five eggs well beaten, a glass of sherry, and a little grated nutmeg. Put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish or in buttered cups; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, ahd serve with sweet sauce. Almond Tartlets. Take half a pound of ground sweet almonds, pound them in a mortar with a little orange-flower water. Add half a pound of castor sugar, the grated rind of two lemons, and pound well to- gether, then add half a pound of melted butter, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of four, well beaten to a paste. Put these into lined patty- pans and bake. Amber Pudding. Boil one pint of milk with a little best Demarara sugar, and half the rind of a lemon. Beat up an egg with some custard powder, and two table- spoonfuls of milk ; pour this into the remainder of the milk, and when it is boiling stir it for several minutes; put two tablespoonfuls of strawberry jam at the bottom of a pie-dish, and pour over it the custard mixture. This should be eaten cold.A LA MODE. 3 Apple Fancy. Pare some apples and take out the cores ; stew them with sugar and lemon peel; beat up four eggs into a froth, add to them a cupful of grated bread-crumbs with a little sugar and nutmeg. Lay the stewed apples in the bottom of a dish and cover with the bread-crumbs, laying a few pieces of butter over the top. Bake it in a brisk oven, and turn it, when upside down, on a flat dish. Scatter powdered loaf-sugar over before serving. Apple Charlotte. Butter a plain tin mould ; cut slices of bread not quite a quarter of an inch thick, which should be dipped into oiled butter, scored across in diamond patterns, to put at bottom of mould; cut some more slices the height of the mould, and the width of Savoy biscuits ; dip all these into oiled butter, and then arrange them neatly all round the mould, each one just overlapping the other. Make a puree with a dozen good apples by stirring them in only just enough water to cover them, beat them dry and add four ounces of castor sugar, and the rind of a grated lemon; boil this for half an hour, stirring constantly, then pour it carefully into the mould, and let it bake for three-quarters of an hour, Apple Hedgehog. Peel and core three pounds of apples, without being divided, and stew in syrup till tender. Drain them then from the syrup, and fill them with apricot jam, and arrange them in layers in4 PUDDINGS AND'PASTRY the shape of a hedgehog. Stew down three pounds more of the apples till smooth and dry, and fill up all the spaces between the whole apples with this ; beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, with a tablespoonful of sugar, and spread it very evenly all over the apple, sift some castor sugar over, cut some sweet almonds (blanched of course) into strips, and stick them all over this, to give an appearance of hedgehog quills. Place it in a moderate oven till the almonds just change colour and the pudding is hot through ; custard sauce may be served round it. Apple Meringue. Cut half a pound of apples into slices and warm them in a saucepan with six ounces of butter and three ounces of sugar ; when cooked pile on a dish, and whip the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth ; sweeten with a tablespoonful of pounded sugar, and a few drops of essence of vanilla; cover the apple pile with this and put cross-bars over it of angelica, arranged like trelliswork ; put it into a slow oven, just to colour a little. , Apple and Rice Souffle Pudding. Boil an ounce of rice in milk till it is quite soft and can be beaten to a pulp. Scald five good- sized apples which have been pared and cored, and beat them into the rice with a tablespoonful of castor sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, and a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; and add them to the mixture, and whisk them well together. Have aA LA MODE. 5 hot basin ready, and pour the souffle into it, and put the basin in a stewpan of boiling water till the egg is set and firm. Make a custard with the three yolks, flavour it with cinnamon, and pour round the Dudding and serve. Apple and Tapioca Pudding. Line the edges of a pie-dish with paste; then put in a layer of peeled, cored, and sliced apples with a little sugar and a few cloves ; then a layer of tapioca which has been in soak for some hours ; then place another layer of apples, and then a layer of tapioca till the dish is full; cover with paste and bake in rather a quick oven. Apple Tartlets with Cream. Pare, core, and finely chop two large sharp apples ; add to them two ounces of Savoy biscuits rubbed through a fine sieve; add a grate of nut- meg, a gill of cream, and sugar to taste; then add the yolks of five eggs and two whites well beaten. Put this mixture into patty-pans lined with puff- paste, sift white sugar over them, and bake. Apricot Fritters. Take a tin of the Climax tinned apricots. Drain away the syrup ; then cover the apricots with finely powdered sugar, and dip them into batter and fry in very hot fat. Arrange them on a dish and sprinkle sugar over them. Pine-apple fritters should be made the same way.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 6 Apricot Pudding. Take some tinned apricots (half a tin), put them on the side of the fire for a few minutes with a table-spoonful of sifted sugar, and when cold add the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two well beaten. Mix these with half a pint of cream. The dish should be lined with puff-paste, and the apricot mixture poured in; let it bake for half- an-hour in a moderate oven ; strew sifted sugar over and serve. Apricot Pudding a la Royale. Take some tinned apricots, pass them through a tammy sieve, add half a pint of juice boiled to a syrup with white sugar and one glass of maraschino. Let all boil for a few minutes, add about twelve sheets of leaf gelatine which has been soaked in a quarter of a pint of water and strained. Add the juice of a lemon ; stand it on ice to get firm. Have ready about a quarter of a pint of clear calfs-foot jelly and pour this into a quart mould to chemise ^ it; and set it on ice, and when the apricot mixture is nearly cold put into the jelly-mould and set it on ice. When it is turned out a little custard, flavoured with vanilla, should be served round it. The Ascot Tartlet. Mix half a pound of granulated cocoa-nut and the same weight of chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of ground sweet almonds; add one pound * In case any of my readers should not understand this technical culinary term, it means line a mould.7 A LA MODE. of powdered sugar and flavour with cinnamon. Make into a soft paste with white of egg. Line some patty-pans with puff-paste and put some of the mixture in the centre of each. Bake, and when cold put a spot of whipped cream in the centre of each. Baba a St. Jacques. . Take a quarter of a pound of flour, make a well in the centre, stir in half an ounce of German yeast, dissolved in water, roll it into a ball, and keep in a warm place wrapped in a cloth till it has risen to twice its original size. Take three quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, three eggs, half an ounce of powdered sugar, and a pinch of salt; stir well together, add five eggs one after another, then the ball of yeast, an ounce of chopped citron, an ounce of currants, and two ounces of sultanas. Knead the paste thoroughly, and put it in a large mould capable of holding twice the quantity, leave till it has risen to nearly the top of the mould, bake, and when done turn out of the mould, and cover with the following sauce. Dis- solve some apricot jam in a tumblerful of clarified sugar, and a large wineglassful of rum, and boil till a thick sauce. Bakewell Pudding. Take a couple of ounces of butter, melt it, and run it through a fine sieve, incorporate with it two ounces of pounded white sugar, the beaten yolk of one egg, the white of one, and one ounce of finely chopped mixed candied peel. Have a pudding- dish lined with puff-paste, place on it a layer ofPUDDINGS AND PASTRY 8 strawberry jam, then a layer of the paste, then a layer of apricot jam, and on the top of that some black currant jam, and then another layer of the mixture. Grate some sifted sugar over all, and bake for about an hour and a quarter. Baked Apple Pudding. Take half a pound of the pulp of the sharpest apples, after being well scalded, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of three (all beaten separately), two and a half ounces of sifted sugar, the rind of one lemon grated, and the strained juice, and three ounces of melted butter. Mix all these ingredients well together, have ready a dish lined with thin paste, and then put in the apple mixture ; it should be put into the oven immediately after mixing ; it should be served cold. Ball Fritters. Take half a pint of milk, one spoonful of water and a little salt; when it boils stir in as much dried flour as will make it stiff; then pound it in a mortar till very fine ; beat up the yolks of two eggs ; mix them well and pound it again ; cut the batter into small pieces with a spoon, and take care to make them of an equal size ; make them as round as possible, and fry them a light colour. The pan should be full enough to cover them, and the lard or dripping should boil when they are put in Batter Pudding. Boil a pint of milk, and stir in three eggs beaten separately, and three and a half teaspoon- fuls of flour while the milk is nearly hot enough toA LA MODE. 9 boil; do not let it boil whilst stirring in the flour, but take it off the fire or the eggs will curdle. Bake this batter half an hour, and serve wine or lemon sauce with it. The milk should be slightly salted before boiling. Beignets Souffles. Put two gills of water into a saucepan, a very little salt, a very full teaspoonful of sugar, the same quantity of butter, and a small piece of grated lemon-peel. When nearly boiling, remove from the fire, and add enough flour to make a light paste ; stir with a wooden spoon till smooth; let it cool; add one teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and break an egg into it and stir quickly, then another egg, and if necessary add still one more, to make it of the right consistency to drop slowly from a spoon. Then add the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth. Put aside for two hours and drop a small spoonful at a time into boiling lard. They should puff up light and large, and when golden brown remove from the fat. Roll in powdered sugar and serve hot. Bengal Custards. Take two ounces of rice flour, mix this with three well-beaten eggs, a grate of nutmeg, two ounces of powdered sugar, and half a pint of milk. Mix well together, and put in patty-pans lined with puff-paste and bake. Berkeley Pudding. Mix together half a pound of finely shred suet, two ounces of fine flour, a tablespoonful of gratedPUDDINGS AND PAS TP V lO bread-crumbs, one whole egg, or two if small, a grate of cinnamon, the same of nutmeg, a gill of milk, and a teaspoonful of essence of lemon. When well mixed pour into a mould and boil five hours. Serve custard sauce with it, flavoured with rum. Berlin Pancakes. Mix half a pound of flour and half an ounce of yeast with lukewarm milk, and allow it to rise; then add a tiny pinch of salt, half an ounce of sugar, one and a half ounces of butter, a few drops of rose-water, three yolks of eggs, and a little milk ; work all to a soft paste till it is easily detached from the basin. Allow again to rise, divide into four, and roll out. Fill with raspberry jam, turn over and form them into balls, lay them on a cloth powdered with flour, and allow them to rise. Boil some clarified dripping fast, then put the pancakes into it, cover the pan with a lid till the cakes are well risen. If they are nicely yellowish on the lower side, turn over and allow them to bake well. Then take them out of the pan, let the fat drip off, and powder with cinnamon and sugar. The fat must not be too hot, or the cakes will get too brown. If too cold the cakes will not bake. The cakes may also be painted with raspberry jelly and dipped into coarse sugar. Bird’s-nest Pudding-. Peel and core three apples, line a pudding-dish with puff-paste, lay the apples at the bottom of the dish, and stick long strips of citron round them ; stir to a cream half a pound of powdered sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter; beat sepa-A LA MODE. rately the yolks and whites of four eggs, mix them with butter and sugar, season with nutmeg, place it on the fire and stir till it is hot, then pour over the apples and bake immediately. This pudding can be eaten warm or cold ; the top must not be allowed to brown too soon. Blackberry Tart. Make a pint of blackberry pulp, and put with it six apples chopped small, a grated biscuit, and a glass of brandy ; mix well together, sweeten to taste, and make it into a tart. Custard or cream should be served with it. Boiled Apple Balls. Peel, core, and cut up into dice, two pounds of good apples; put them in a basin and mix with them one half-pound of sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, one ounce of butter, quarter of a pint of milk, and six eggs, the whites of which must be beaten to a froth ; then add as many bread-crumbs as will make the mixture stiff, roll it up into small balls, and boil it in salted water. Serve with wine sauce. Boiled Apple Pudding Baked. Make an apple pudding in the usual way, underboil it, turn it out; then spread thickly over it butter and brown sugar ; then bake it till the crust is golden and hard. Bread and Butter Pudding (rich). Cut a twopenny loaf into very thin slices, and spread them with fresh butter. Put puff-pastePUDDINGS AND PASTRY 12 round the bottom of a dish, lay in a roll of the bread and butter, and strew over a handful of currants and a few raisins ; add some little bits of butter, and do so till your dish is full, then boil one pint of cream, and thicken it when cold with the yolks of three large eggs, a little grated nut- meg, a pinch of salt, two ounces of sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water, which pour in fresh as the pudding is going to the oven. Bread Cheesecakes. Slice a penny loaf as thin as possible, pour on it half a pint of boiling cream, and let it stand for two hours ; take four eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a nutmeg, grated ; beat these in- gredients all well together, and mix them into the cream and bread with a quarter of a pound of currants, well washed and dried, add a small spoonful of brandy, and bake them in patty-pans. Bread Fritters. Take half a pound of Vienna bread, crumble it small, and let it steep in a pint of boiling milk for a quarter of an hour. Then beat it up with a fork till quite smooth ; add two whole eggs well beaten up, half a wine-glassful of brandy, half an ounce of butter, and a little sugar and salt. This must be thoroughly well mixed and beaten up. Butter an enamel frying-pan, pour the mix- ture in, and allow it to fry gently. When one side is done toss it over and fry the other. Arrange them in layers, cut them into four, and serve; send castor sugar and lemon to table with them.A LA MODE. 13 Brown Bread Pudding. Take six ounces of stale brown bread-crumbs, six ounces of fresh butter, four eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, half a pound of brown sugar, and a very little cinnamon ; cream the butter, then mix well with sugar till quite smooth ; add the beaten eggs, and stir in gradually the other ingredients. Steam the pudding for three hours ; when turned out, pour melted cherry jam over it, and serve hot. Brown Bread Pudding (rich). Take a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs and put them in a basin with one and half ounces of castor sugar, and a good half-pound of cherries stoned, the grated rind of half a lemon, and ten drops of essence of vanilla. Boil a quarter of a pint of milk and pour over. Whip a gill of cream to a froth and add it, then put in, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites whisked stiffly. Have a buttered mould ready, and pour in this mixture; cover with buttered paper, and steam for a little more than an hour. Turn out and serve with a syrup of the cherries. Buckingham Pudding. Mix together a quarter of a pound of grated bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of minced apples, a quarter of a pound of finely chopped suet, a quarter of a pound of currants, and three well- beaten eggs, a dust of nutmeg, a few drops of lemon juice, and a dessertspoonful of brandy. Boil in a mould for one and a half hours.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 14 Cabinet Pudding (cold). Decorate a mould at the bottom with preserved cherries and angelica cut in strips and formed into designs. Split six savoys in half, and line the mould with them very evenly round the sides. Put in two ounces of ratafias ; make a custard with four eggs in half a pint of milk, then strain into it half an ounce of the leaf gelatine melted in a little water. When it is nearly cold add a gill of cream, half a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and half an ounce of sifted sugar. Mix well and pour into the mould over the ratafias. Put it on ice and turn out and serve. Cabinet Pudding, Iced. Cut a stale sponge-cake into slices half an inch thick, and rather smaller than the mould into which the pudding is to be made, soak them well in brandy with a glass of noyeau in it, then lay some preserved cherries at the bottom of the mould with a few ratafias ; lay one of the slices over them, and then more cherries and ratafias, proceeding thus until the mould is three parts full; have ready a pint of custard, pour it tepid into the mould, and cover it close and hang it in ice and salt for at least three hours. Have about half a pint of custard in ice, and when ready to serve pour it over the pudding and sprinkle a few chopped pistachio kernels over. Calfs-foot Pudding. Take a calf’s foot, shred it very fine and mix half a penny roll with it, grated and scalded in half a pint of cream ; put to it a quarter of a pound ofJ LA MODE. IS shred beef-suet, four eggs, and a good tablespoon- ful of currants ; season with spice and sugar, a little orange-flower water, a little Marsala, and the marrow of one bone; then put it into a veal caul being washed over with the egg-batter ; then wet a cloth and put it in and tie it closely. When the water boils put it in and boil for two hours, turn it into a dish, and stick on it sliced almonds and citron. Serve a butter sauce with it, flavoured with orange brandy. Camp Puddings. Put into a saucepan, with a gill of water, four ounces of butter, and sweeten it to taste; then add the rind of a large lemon, and a quarter of a pound of flour mixed with part of the water and butter, put it by till nearly cold, then beat in three eggs, and put it into tin moulds and bake. Canary Pudding. Take three eggs and the weight of two in flour, sugar, and butter; melt the butter and mix the sugar with it, then add the flour, and then the eggs well beaten. Flavour well with strips of candied lemon. Boil for two hours and serve with sweet sauce. The Capital Pudding. Shred a quarter of a pound of suet with half a pound of flour, one small teaspoonful of baking powder, and one of carbonate of soda; then add four tablespoonfuls of strawberry and greengage jam, and stir well with a gill of milk. Boil four hours in a high mould and serve with fruit sauce,PUDDINGS AND PASTRY i6 Caramel Pudding (rich). Put a handful of loaf sugar to boil with a gill of water till the syrup becomes a deep brown, warm a small basin, pour the syrup into it and keep turning the basin in your hand till the inside is completely coated with the syrup, which will by that time have set; strain the yolks of eight eggs from the whites, and mix them gradually and effectually with one pint of milk ; pour this mixture into the prepared mould, lay a piece of paper on the top, set in a saucepan full of cold water, taking care that the water does not come over the top of the mould; put on the cover and let it boil gently at the side of the fire for one hour; remove the saucepan to a cool place, and when the water is quite cold, take out the mould and turn out the pudding carefully. To make it turn out firmer two whites of the eggs can be mixed in. Chocolate Fingers. Make some paste with a lump of butter the size of a walnut, a lump of sugar, a grate of lemon in halt a pint of water ; let it boil two or three times, then stir in some flour, till it becomes a thick paste, then stir in an egg. Keep this paste thick enough to roll and cut out into the shape of ladies’ fingers ; bake in the oven, take two and put chocolate cream between, and glaze the top over with chocolate icing. Chocolate Pudding Cold (simple). Boil a quart of milk and stir in three ounces of grated vanilla chocolate, three tablespoonfuls of17 A LA MODE, corn flour, two ounces of powdered sugar, and the beaten yolk of two eggs; bake, and when the pud- ding is cold, beat the whites of the two eggs to a froth, and stir in two large spoonfuls of castor sugar, and place it on the pudding and serve. Chocolate Pudding (rich). One pint of double cream, two tablespoonfuls of corn flour. Not quite half a cup of powdered sugar, the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, dissolve the corn flour in a little milk, stir the sugar into the remainder of the milk, which place on the fire; when it begins to boil add the dissolved corn flour. Stir continually for a few minutes, till it becomes a smooth paste. Now stir in the beaten whites of eggs and let it remain a little longer to cook the eggs. Flavour the whole with vanilla. Now take out a third of the pudding, flavour the remainder in the kettle with a bar or tablet of chocolate, softened, mashed, and dissolved with a little milk. Put half the chocolate pudding in the bottom of a mould (which has been wetted with water), smooth the top ; next make a layer with the white pudding, smooth it also ; next the remainder of the chocolate pudding. Serve with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Chocolate Souffle. Dissolve rather less than a quarter of a pound of chocolate in a basin in which there is a little luke- warm water, add the yolks of four eggs and two handfuls of crushed sugar, and mix together till a smooth frothy paste. Beat up the four whites to CPUDDINGS AND PAS TP V i8 snow and add them to the mixture and pour the whole into a souffle dish. Leave it for twenty minutes in the oven, then serve. Clarence Pudding. Mix together two ounces of flour, two ounces of melted butter, three beaten yolks of eggs, two whites, and half a pint of milk. Bake these in three oval tins one inch deep for half an hour, and sprinkle powdered sugar over. Citron Pudding (plain). Grate an ounce of citron, the juice of a small lemon, and mix in half a pint of milk with loaf sugar to taste, and an ounce of flour. Put the mixture into a buttered mould, fill it half-full, and bake in an oven for about twenty minutes. Citron Pudding (rich). Line a dish with puff paste ; slice very thinly half an ounce of orange peel, the same of lemon peel and two ounces of citron, the yolks of five eggs, and the whites of two all well beaten, an ounce of white sugar, and four ounces of butter melted and clarified. Stir all well together, and pour into the dish ; bake one hour and serve. Citron Tartlets. Cream a quarter of a pound of butter with six ounces of powdered sugar, then add gradually the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs and a19 A LA MODE. teaspoonful of brandy; then chop very fine one ounce of citron and half an ounce of lemon peel. Line some patty-pans with puff-paste, and throw a little of the chopped mixed peel upon the paste and then a tablespoonful of the butter, and put into ' the oven at once. Coburg Pudding. Take plain round Savoy cake and scoop out neatly all the inside, leaving an inch all round, and at the bottom. Cut some apricots into small pieces, likewise three or four pieces of pineapple and a dozen and a half crystallised or glace cherries. Crumble over these about a dozen ratafias and the inside of the cake broken up small, and fill the hole in the Savoy with it all ; having well mixed all together, first make a rich custard and pour into the cake. Put the cake in a round mould, and cover it with a piece of paper ; then place the mould in a stew-pan containing about one quart of boiling water, and let the pudding gently boil for three quarters of an hour. When ready turn out and serve the following sauce over and round it: one gill of boiling water, a good tablespoonful of powdered sugar and one gill of sherry ; when these boil, stir in one tablespoonful of corn flour mixed with half a gill of cold water, stirring till it boils. Add a few drops of cochineal to colour it. Cocoanut Pudding. Melt over a slow fire two ounces of fresh butter and four ounces of sifted sugar. Pour out after boiling two minutes, and add two ounces of desic- cated cocoanut, one ounce of finely shred citron,20 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY the grated rind of half a lemon, and four eggs. When these ingredients have been well beaten to- gether add the strained juice of the half lemon ; put the mixture into a mould and bake in a mode- rate oven for three-quarters of an hour, ornament with apricot jam piped on, and different coloured fondants arranged on it. Pistachio-kernels, grated and strewed over, look well. Cocoanut Tartlets. Line some tartlet-pans with puff-paste. Put a small piece of cork about an inch in diameter in the centre. When baked take out the cork, and ice round the edge with pink icing ; then dip each case in granulated cocoanut; then put in the centre, neatly, different kinds of jams, such as greengage, apricot, raspberry, etc. College Pudding. Put half a pound of bread-crumbs into a basin, a quarter of a pound of finely chopped suet, the same of currants, two whole eggs, two ounces of sugar, a dust of nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and a little milk to mix it. Make it into round balls, egg-and- crumb them, and fry in hot fat till a nice colour. Dish up with sugar sifted over them and rum butter sauce. Compote of Chestnuts. Boil some chestnuts in water. If they colour much, change the water. When done peel them and add some hot syrup ; leave on the fire for a few minutes, and flavour with a tea-spoonful of essence of vanilla ; pour into a glass dish and serve cold.21 A LA MODE. Countess Pudding. Stir two yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of castor sugar well together; add half an ounce of pounded almonds and another yolk of egg ; thicken with mashed baked potatoes ; flavour with vanilla ; stir in the whipped whites of the eggs ; boil, and serve with whipped cream over. Cranberry and Apple Tart. Mix half a pint of cranberries with half a pound of sugar and a spoonful of water; let simmer till soft. Slice thin half-a-dozen apples ; put a rim of paste round a pudding-dish ; strew in the apples, pour the cranberries over, and cover with a good crust. The Curates’ Puddings. Put a pint of milk into a saucepan with the thin rind of a large lemon, a pinch of salt, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a heaped table- spoonful of sugar. Let it stand by side of fire till the butter is dissolved. Let it stand to cool. Whisk the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two. Mix with them gradually four tablespoonfuls of flour, add the milk and pour the mixture into but- tered cups, which must be only half-filled ; bake for half an hour, turn out and serve with wine sauce. Currant Salad. Pick over a pint of red currants and place them in the centre of a compote dish ; then pick over22 PUDDINGS AND PAS TP V a pint of white currants and arrange them in a border round the red ones ; outside of these arrange another border of black currants. Take a pint of good cream, sweeten, and add gradually a table- spoonful of brandy and one of curagoa. Pour the cream over the salad, and drop fresh raspberries all over each. Custard and Brandy Pudding. Make a good rich custard, well flavoured with vanilla and sweetened to taste ; when cold strain the custard smooth and add half a pint of cream, a gill of noyeau, the strained juice of a lemon, and a little boiled isinglass. Then put the whole into a pudding mould and ice it, and serve brandy sauce with it. Custard Pudding (rich). One pint of milk, four eggs, half a glass of brandy, sugar, a bay-leaf, all boiled in a mould for twenty minutes. Daisy Tartlets. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, fill in the bottom with apricot jam, and one teaspoonful of a mixture made of one ounce of butter, one ounce of cake-crumbs, one ounce of ground almonds, one tablespoonful of milk, the rind and juice of one lemon, one ounce of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs, all beaten to a thick paste. Stir in the whites whipped to a stiff froth, stir the mixture over the fire, and press two strips of paste across each tart like a cross, and bake. They should be served cold.23 A LA MODE. Dalhousie Pudding. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour gradually with a pint of milk, boil it till it is thick, set it to get cold ; then add six ounces of melted butter, four ounces of sifted sugar, a little salt, some pounded bitter almonds, the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs ; put a paste round the dish and bake it; serve with currant jelly on the top. Devonshire Pudding. Mix together twelve ounces of bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of tapioca, half a pound of finely chopped suet, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, the grated peel of a small lemon, and four whole eggs beaten up separately, and two table- spoonfuls of rum ; stir and mix all well together, put in two or three more eggs, and a good cupful of cream ; mix thoroughly, and put it into a greased mould, strew a few bread-crumbs and a little crushed sugar, and shake them round the mould, so that they adhere to it. Place some ratafias at the bottom of the mould. Cut some sponge cakes about six lengthwise, and spread each one with apricot jam. Put over the ratafias the prepared custard, and then a layer of cake, till the mould is full. Bake for three-quarters of an hour ; serve a jam and wine sauce made hot, served round the pudding. Devonshire Tartlets. Take half a pound of sweet biscuit powder, half a pint of milk, a grate of nutmeg, four ounces of dried orange-peel cut very thin, and /choppedPUDDINGS AND PASTRY 24 fine with half a pound of apples pared and cored. Mix well together; add two or three drops of essence of lemon, and four ounces of powdered sugar. Line some patty-pans with puff-paste, dust a little on the top, and bake. Diplomatique Pudding. Take a plain round pudding-mould, and pour in half a pint of calf’s-foot jelly, and keep turning the mould round and round, to coat it with jelly, and then stand it on ice a few moments, decorate it then with preserved cherries, chopped pistachio- nuts and angelica, sticking them on with a little jelly. When this is done, cut up two or three apricots, two or three slices of pineapple, and about two dozen glace cherries ; take some sponge- cakes, cut them in two longways, spread a little preserve on each, and cut each into four pieces. Have ready a rich custard, highly flavoured with noyeau, then put into the mould a little of the chopped fruit, and then the cut-up sponge-cakes ; add a few ratafias, and pour about a wine-glassful of the custard over. When this is set, proceed with the fruit, and so on till the mould is full. It should be made standing in or on ice. Serve the following sauce : boil a pot of currant jelly in an equal quantity of water, very slowly, place a few cherries in it, and put this on the ice to freeze. Dolly Varden Pudding. Cover the mould with different coloured jelly, and light jelly on the top, and set it to get cold.A LA MODE 25 Then take one pint of milk and two eggs, and make a custard ; dissolve nine sheets of gelatine in half a gill of water; put the custard to get cool, and pour in the gelatine. Strain this mixture over five and a half ounces of finger biscuits, and two ounces of ratafias, which have been placed in a basin ; let all soak for a time; place inside the mould, and stand on ice till wanted. Duchess Cakes. Take half an ounce of flour, and stir half an egg with it, add three yolks of eggs, two ounces of powdered sugar, three pounded macaroons, a pinch of salt, the whites of two eggs; stir till all is well mixed ; add half a gill of cream, a few strips of citron, a dessertspoonful of currants, a very little chopped angelica, and glace cherries, and two or three preserved orange-flower leaves. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, bake, and when cooked glaze with white sugar, and serve. This quantity will make nine cakes. • English Pudding. Take an ordinary sponge-cake and cut it into slices about two inches wide. Lay them crosswise into a pudding-mould, which is buttered inside. Stir in a basin six whole eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, some grated lemon-peel, a quarter of a pound of ground almonds, two ounces of potato flour, and three-quarters of a pint of white wine; mix well all together; pour it over the sponge- cake in the mould, and let it bake for three-quarters of an hour.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY ’-6 Eve’s Pudding. Take three-quarters of a pound of grated bread, mixed with the same quantity of suet, the same of apples and of currants. Mix the whole of four eggs and the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a mould, boil three hours, and serve with custard sauce. Every-day Pudding. Put into a basin one pound of flour, one of chopped suet, half a pound of mixed fruit, a little spice, grated lemon-peel, three ounces of sugar, two eggs, half a pint of milk ; tie it in a cloth, boil for four hours, turn it out and serve with melted butter or sweet sauce ; bread-crumbs instead of flour make it lighter. Fanchonnettes au cage. Line the patty-pans with puff-paste and fill with a mixture made of three-quarters of a pint of milk, three ounces of sugar, two yolks of eggs, and a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and then bake. While these are cooling beat up some white of egg and sugar very stiffly, spread it over the tops about d quarter of an inch high, dust some sugar lightly over, and place them in a cool oven for a few moments. When cold beat up some bright coloured jelly, and pipe a pattern along the edges. French Pancake. Make a batter with two eggs and three table- spoonfuls of fine flour, some powdered loaf-sugar, and enough milk to make it to the consistency ofA LA MODE, 27 porridge. Butter the inside of a frying-pan and place it over a moderate fire. When hot pour in the batter and cook. When done, put it on a dish, spread any kind of jam on it, and roll it in three or four, and send it to table sprinkled with white sugar. Frivolites. Make a paste with one pound of flour in which half a pound of butter has been rubbed, the yolks of two eggs and a gill of water; take half a pint of milk flavoured with vanilla and sweetened with sugar ; boil it, and put in two ounces of butter and boil in it. Mix in a quarter of a pint of milk, a couple of heaped-up tablespoonfuls of Vienna flour. When perfectly smooth stir it into the milk mixture and cook it over the fire for two minutes ; then take off the fire and stir in one by one the yolks of five eggs. Now roll out the short paste to the thickness of a sovereign, and cut out as many pieces the size of the tartlet-pans as are required, and place them in the tartlet-pans ; then place a little jam in each, and on this a dessert-spoonful of the pastry custard ; put it on very evenly, egg the edge of the paste, roll out some puff paste, and cut it out to fit over the other ; fix them on, then spread some icing on the top very smoothly with a knife; then roll out a little puff-paste and cut it into shreds, and make a cross of them, and put them over the top. Bake in the oven ; take care they do not get too dark a colour. Fruit Salad. Make a syrup with half a pound of sugar, and a gill of water, and a thin piece of rind of lemon ; when the syrup is boiled thick, and is cold, havePUDDINGS AND FAS TP V 28 ready a mixture of fruits, such as cherries (stoned), strawberries, raspberries, pieces of pineapple, melon, apricot, currants, grapes, plums, greengages, etc., which must be piled up on a glass dish, arranging them tastily; then pour over the syrup, into which two tablespoonfuls of noyeau or brandy has been put. A little sifted sugar should be poured over all. Fun Pudding. Mix a couple of tablespoonfuls of arrowroot with half a pint of milk and a gill of cream, sweeten to taste, and put it in a saucepan ; stir till it boils. Slice some apples thinly, and fill a good-sized pud- ding-dish ; dust some sugar in between the slices. Put bits of butter over the apples, and put a thick layer of apricot jam over the apples ; over all put a mixture of arrowroot, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Gala Pudding. Mix a tablespoonful of flour smoothly with two of milk ; then pour over it a cupful of boiling milk flavoured with vanilla, add a tablespoonful of sugar, a piece of butter the size of a pigeon’s egg, and the yolk of an egg ; simmer and stir till it thickens. Line the edge of a pudding dish with good crust. Fill it with slices of sponge-cake spread with any kind of good jam. Pour the custard over and bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. When the pudding is cooked, lay on it the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. Colour one with a few drops of cochineal, to give it a mottled appearance. Put the pudding for a few moments in the oven, and serve.29 A LA MODE, Gateau de Cerises. Put half an ounce of leaf gelatine to soak in a gill of cold water till dissolved ; have ready one pound of cooking cherries (stoned), but taking care to preserve the shape. Take half a pint of water, and five ounces of castor sugar, and the strained juice of half a lemon, and boil them over the fire for ten minutes, skimming constantly ; then add the cherries, and boil till tender: add three drops of cochineal, and then stir in the gelatine strained, and' a tablespoonful of noyeau or brandy. Pour into a border mould, and set on ice till firm. When turned out, have some whipped cream ready to place in the centre. Genoise Pastry aux Amandes. Make it the same as Genoise Pastry aux Pistaches, substituting chopped sweet almonds instead of pistachios, and painting here and there over the icing with a feather dipped in cochineal. Genoises Pastry aux Pistaches. Warm a pound of butter in a basin and beat it well to a cream ; add a pound of sifted sugar, and beat again ; then add eight eggs one by one, and mix most thoroughly; then add a glass of brandy, mix again, and then one pound of Vienna flour scattered in a little at a time. Butter a middling sized baking dish, line it with paper, and butter this with clarified butter. Spread the Genoise paste on the baking sheet, and bake it in a mode- rate oven ; it should be made the day before it is30 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY wanted. When required it should be cut into lengths of two and a half inches wide, and then split in two with a sharp knife, and on one of the splits spread some jam, and place the other split on the top again very evenly ; spread some liqueur- flavoured icing on the top of each ; have some with pale pink icing, and some with white, and sprinkle over some finely chopped pistachio nuts, and then cut them into lengths one inch wide; place them in the oven, leaving the door open a few minutes, and they will soon set. German Pudding. Boil four and a half ounces of rice in a quart of milk till tender, chop up half a pound of beef suet chopped very fine, three ounces of sugar, and one ounce and a half of candied peel, one pound of sul- tana raisins, four eggs beaten; mix all well together and boil for three hours in a mould or basin. Make a sauce of one ounce of sugar, one glass of sherry, and the yolks of two well-beaten eggs, stir over the fire till it becomes the consistency of custard ; then add the juice of a lemon. German Puffs. Beat three eggs, add to them four ounces of flour, mix till it becomes a smooth stiff batter ; then add one ounce of good melted butter, two ounces of castor sugar, a little nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of cream, and the same of milk. Put this batter into well-buttered tea-cups, fill them half-full, and when baked turn out, and sift a little powdered white sugar over them.A LA MODE. 31 German Sandwiches. Take six ounces of castor sugar, the same of flour, the same of fresh butter melted, but which must not be added till cold, or nearly so. Beat all well together for half an hour, then spread on tins, and bake from ten to twenty minutes, according to the state of the oven, which ought to be rather slow ; when done cut them with a sharp knife any size that is required ; spread jam or jelly on them when quite cold. After they are made they will keep a week in a closed tin. Gingerbread Pudding. Work two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar and two ounces of butter together, then add an egg well beaten, then two tablespoonfuls of golden syrup, one teacupfui of milk, then eight ounces of flour, and one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix all well together, put into a buttered pudding-mould, and steam for four hours. Golden Balls. Take one ounce of sweet almonds and two of bitter, blanched and pounded, three tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, two ounces of fine bread-crumbs ; mix all well together, and then add one ounce of creamed butter, and half-fill buttered mould or cups, and bake twenty minutes in a gentle oven. Hedgehog Pudding. Shred half a pound of beef suet finely, mix with it four ounces of bread-crumbs, half a pound ofPUDDINGS AND PAS TP V 32 currants, and the same of sultanas, four ounces of sugar, half an ounce of orange-peel, one and a half ounces of lemon-peel, and one of citron, a good grate of nutmeg, half a wineglassful of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, four sweet almonds sliced, four eggs and as much ale as will make the pudding into a stiff paste. Tie the pudding in a cloth and throw it into boiling water, and keep it boiling for five hours. Blanch three ounces of sweet almonds each split into four, and stick them in the pudding just before sending to table, and serve with brandy sauce. Italian Pudding. Take three ounces of macaroni and put it in a saucepan on the fire with a pint of milk and water, a piece of lemon-peel pared very thin, and a small piece of cinnamon; stew gently for an hour till tender, but not soft, beat two eggs well, adding half a pint of cold milk and two ounces of sugar ; butter a dish and put a border of paste round the edge, spread a layer of macaroni, then a layer of preserved fruit or orange marmalade, and the remainder of the macaroni over; pour the milk and eggs upon it, bake about an hour in a moderate oven, and serve with powdered sugar over it. Jam Fritters. Cut some small sponge-cakes in half, spread both halves with jam; moisten the edges with water, stick them firmly together, add two whipped whites of eggs to some batter made with white wine; dip the cakes into it and fry; when done.A LA MODE. 33 drain and place them on a board, sprinkle with icing sugar, and glaze with a salamander or in the oven. Jam Souffle. Simmer together over a slow fire four ounces of butter, and a heaped tablespoonful of the best flour ; mix in half a pint of milk a pot of apricot, raspberry or strawberry jam, and let this boil; rub through a sieve and put it into the butter mixture ; put in the yolks of four eggs and beat the four whites to a stiff froth, and stir into the other ingredients. Put into a souffle mould and boil an hour. Serve it with wine sauce in which a little of the jam has been put in after rubbing through the sieve. Joy Pudding. Take two cups of grated bread-crumbs, one cup of chopped suet, one cup of raisins, half a cup of treacle, half a cup of syrup, one cup of milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, two tablespoonfuls of flour, add a little salt and a little flavouring. Mix ^ all well together and steam for two hours. Jubilee Pudding. Take two ounces of grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter, the same of castor sugar, two well- beaten eggs, and two large tablespoonfuls of pre- / serve. Mix thoroughly, put in a mould and steam for an hour and a half, and serve with wine sauce. Lemon Dumplings. Take half a pound of grated bread, a quarter of a pound of suet, a quarter of a pound of moist DPUDDINGS AND PASTRY 34 sugar, one egg, and the juice of one lemon, boil them in teacups three quarters of an hour, turn them into a dish, strew white sugar over them, and sweet sauce can be added. Lemon Cup Custards. Make a pint of lemonade by dissolving two and a half ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of boiling water, having previously with part of the sugar rubbed off the lemon rind; next put in the juice of three lemons, add the yolks of four eggs well beaten; stir this one way over the fire till the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, and serve in custard-glasses. Lemon Gingerbread. Take a pint of treacle and mix it with six ounces of butter warmed; put these into a bowl with one pound of sifted flour and six ounces of brown sugar, and mix all together; add half an ounce of ground ginger, the same of allspice, and three ounces of candied lemon-peel; flavour with a dessertspoonful of essence of lemon, or the strained juice of two lemons; mix well together and let it stand for an hour, after which roll it out with as little flour as possible to half an inch thickness, cut it into fancy shapes or squares, place on a greased baking tin, wash over with the yolk of an egg beaten up with milk, and bake in a moderate oven. Lemon Paste for Cheesecakes. Stir well together one pound of castor sugar, the pounded rind and strained juice of three lemons.A LA MODE. 35 stir them well together ; add four ounces of butter, then beat up six eggs, and mix and stir all well together and place in a stew-pan. Set it over a slow fire, keep stirring till it becomes thick and has boiled four or five minutes, then pour it into a jar. When cold tie it down for use. It will keep six months in a dry place. Lemon Pudding. Mix well together three-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs three-quarters of a pound of sugar, half a pound of suet, the juice and peel of two large lemons. The lemon peel must be cut very thin and chopped very fine; mix in thoroughly three well-beaten eggs. It should be boiled two and a half hours and served with wine sauce. Lemon Pudding (another way). Take the crumb of a penny loaf, grate it and pour on it half a pint of boiling milk, let it stand to cool, then put in the rind of two lemons grated, half a pound of melted butter, three whole eggs and sugar to taste: butter a dish, put the mixture into it and bake it forty eight minutes. Make a wine sauce to serve with it, of two ounces of butter, a pinch of nutmeg, and a glassful of sherry all boiled xtogether. Lemon Pudding (Boiled). Take half a pound of bread-crumbs, six ounces of flour, two and a half ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, half a pint of milk and a lemon. Shred the peel fine, mix with the crumbs and juice, addPUDDINGS AND PAS TP V 36 the flour and butter rubbed together, and sugar; mix with the milk to a soft paste. Boil two hours and a half. Lemon Roll. Take the pulp from two large fresh lemons, remove the pips, weigh the lemons, and boil them with an equal weight of sugar for a quarter of an hour. Turn the mixture out to cool; mix six ounces of finely shred suet with three-quarters of a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, and as much water as will make into a firm paste. Roll it out about half an inch in thickness and spread the mixture upon it; roll it round and round into a long pudding, pinch the ends securely, tie it in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water and let it boil quickly till done enough, which ought to be in two hours. Lemon Tartlets. Reduce to powder a quarter of a pound of Savoy biscuits, add five ounces of sifted sugar, the rind of two lemons grated, and the strained juice. Next add five ounces of fresh butter melted, a little cream, and three eggs and a grate of nutmeg. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, and bake and sift a little powdered sugar over. Orange tartlets can be made the same way, substituting the juice and rind of orange instead of lemon. Lucullus Baskets. Make, or purchase, some oval sponge-cakes about the size of the open oval jam tarts sold at confec- tioners ; cut the top off Dig a little of the spongeA LA MODE. 37 out and replace it by apricot jam, with whipped cream over ; cut the piece of cake cut off in two, and place it on the top again, but raised to show the cream ; take a long strip of citron and make a handle for the centre of the basket. This is a very prett}" sweet. Madeira Pudding*. Cream three ounces of butter and add to it three ounces of castor sugar, six ounces of Vienna flour, the yolks and whites beaten separately of six ounces weight of eggs in the shell; to this .put a liqueur-glassful of brandy and the same of sherry, and a few drops of essence of vanilla or lemon ; beat all well together, put it into a buttered mould, steam for nearly three hours, and serve with clear wine sauce. Madeleine Puddings. Take half a pound of butter, the same of Vienna flour, the same of sifted sugar, half a pound in weight of eggs; whisk the eggs till light, add the sugar gradually, next the flour, and then put in the butter beaten to a cream ; add a few drops of essence of lemon. Put this mixture into well- buttered cups, and bake from twenty to twenty- five minutes. Wine or brandy sauce should be served with them. Marmalade Pudding. Take a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of suet finely chopped, a quarter of a pound of sifted white sugar, two tablespoonfuls38 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY of marmalade, and one egg. Mix well together and boil in a mould for four hours; serve egg-flip or cream sauce with it. Metropole Pudding. Line a pudding-dish with puff-paste, spread on it a thick layer of some good preserve, and over it a layer of Savoy biscuits. Make a mixture of one ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour ; put into a basin and pour over it half a pint of boiling milk sweetened to taste and flavoured with lemon or vanilla flavouring. Stir this over the fire till it thickens, and when it is cool add the beaten yolks of two eggs ; stir well and pour over the preserve and cakes in the dish. Beat the whites to a froth and lay on the pudding: bake in a moderate oven for from thirty-five to forty minutes. Mikado Tarts. Boil together for a few minutes half a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of flour, the yolks of four eggs, two ounces of butter and three ounces of sugar, and salt to taste. When cold add one and a half ounces of almonds chopped fine, and half a wine-glassful of orange-flower water. Make all into a stiff custard and add a few raisins. Line moulds with puff-paste, fill them with the custard and bake; sprinkle with sugar and serve cold. Mincemeat en surprise. Take some mincemeat, form it into balls the size of greengages, roll them first into white of eggJ LA MODE, 39 beaten to snow, smooth with a knife, then roll each in some crumb made by grating ratafia biscuits through a sieve; place them in the oven for a few moments, then roll some of the balls in citron shred very fine, and some in desiccated cocoanut. To make the citron and cocoa-nut adhere, the balls must be brushed over with a little white of egg and sugar mixed; arrange these balls alternately in a heap like cannon shot Mirletons a la Fran9aise. Line some tartlet-tins with puff-paste. Then take three ounces of ratafias, roll these with a rolling-pin till very fine ; then break three fresh eggs, add two ounces of sugar and beat together; now put in two ounces of melted butter. Mix thoroughly, and then put in the ratafias, incorpo- rating all thoroughly. Place in each tartlet half a teaspoonful of apricot jam, and on the top of this place a large tablespoonful of the ratafia mixture. Dust powdered sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. Mocha Pudding. Beat up the yolks of four eggs with four ounces of sifted sugar, add gradually two ounces of potato flour and two ounces of best flour. Lastly add the four whites of egg whipped to a stiff froth ; when the whole is well mixed put it into a buttered plain mould, or small moulds, and bake ; turn out when done, and when quite cold pipe on coffee-icing, and then place in a cold place till required. The icing is made by taking half a pound of fresh butter and a quarter of a pound of icing sugar and40 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY beating it to a cream in a bowl, adding drop by drop, during the process, half a teacupful of the strongest coffee that can be made. Motzo Pudding (Jewish). Soak three biscuits and squeeze the water out well; cut up three large apples into small thick pieces; take two ounces of currants, the same quantity of stoned raisins, and melted fat, a table- spoonful of chopped lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar. Mix altogether with a sufficient quantity of beaten eggs, place in a greased dish, and bake in a good oven. Lemon- juice should be put into the sauce served with it. Napoleon Cake. Mix half a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, two ounces of pounded sweet almonds, and two ounces of sugar together, and bind with the yolk of one egg. Set in the cold for an hour, then roll it out thinly ; bake it and spread each slice with rasp- berry jam ; then place one on the other sandwich fashion, paint the outside all over with some of the jam diluted, and ornament with pistachio-kernels. Norfolk Dumplings. Get some muffins, boil them for twenty minutes in hot water, and serve with sweet sauce. Nun’s Sighs. Warm half an ounce of butter, then put it in a stew-pan with a lump of sugar, a grate of lemon-A LA MODE. 41 peel, and a pinch of salt in half a pint of water; let it boil two or three times ; stir in some flour till it becomes a thick paste, and continue stirring till it is cooked, then stir one egg at a time until it is thin enough to drop out of a spoon. Take a dessert- spoon and drop lumps of it about the size of a walnut into lard or fat which does not quite boil; take out when swollen to four times their original size, and have become a golden colour; sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Orange Cheesecakes. Take a good-sized orange, peel it, and boil in two or three waters till it is tender. Take two ounces of sugar (white), the yolks of three eggs, four ounces of butter, a dessert-spoonful of brandy, the peel, and beat them all together till well mixed and quite soft. Have some patty-pans (about six or seven) ready lined with puff-paste, and half-fill them with the orange paste and bake. Orange Fritters. Peel the oranges, cut them into quarters, remove pips and pith, cover with powdered sugar and dip into butter, and fry in boiling lard or fat, drain them, and dish up sprinkled with powdered sugar. Open Tart a la Metternich. Line a plain mould with short paste, remove the stones from apricots, greengages, or plums, and lay the fruit in the mould; separate each apricot, or what- ever fruit is used, by four stoned. cherries, sprinkle with sugar, and bake. Pound half of the fruit-kernels42 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY and those of the- cherries, stir in a little cream, sweeten to taste, and pour this over the tart and serve. Orange Pudding. Line an open tart-dish with puff-paste, and crinkle the edge. Have ready a teacupful of bread- crumbs, six oranges, the peel pared very thin, boiled, pounded, and rubbed through a sieve with the juice of the six oranges, four ounces of sifted sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and mix with the other mixture just before it is put in the oven. Bake for three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Lemon pudding may be made the same way, using lemons instead of the oranges. Orange Sponge. Soak half an ounce of leaf gelatine in half a pint of water for two or three hours ; put into a saucepan the thin rind of one lemon and one orange, and the strained juice of four oranges and two lemons ; add six ounces of loaf-sugar, and stir all over the fire until it has boiled up for five minutes. Strain when cold (not set), whip up with a whisk till it becomes quite light and frothy, which will take about half an hour. The whipping must he constant or it will not get frothy ; when finished it can be put into a damp mould and turned out ; half of it may be coloured with a little cochineal. Orange Tart. Make a good puff-paste crust, and take some oranges ; peel them and quarter them; extract theA LA MODE. 43 juice from two tangerine oranges, and put it over the quarters of orange, with about four ounces of sugar; let them stew for a few minutes over the fire, then place the oranges in the tart-dish; boil up the juice, pass through a sieve, put on the crust and bake in a quick oven. Cream, in which a little of the orange-juice has been mixed, served with it, is a great improvement. Pastry k TArtoise. Rub half a pound of butter into one of flour, add the yolks of two eggs, rather more than a gill of water, and mix into a paste; roll it out to the thickness of a florin, and place it on a baking-sheet; trim the edge, and brush round the edge with a little yolk of egg and water; put some apricot or strawberry jam on the paste, and spread it evenly and thinly all over the paste, except the egged edge. Have ready some puff-paste, which should be rolled out to the same thickness as the short paste, and cover over the baking-sheet; press it down tightly where the lower sheet has been egged, and trim round with a knife ; then brush the yolk of egg over all the sheet as smoothly as possible ; then with the back of the knife mark it out in squares three inches long and one wide, and bake in a moderate oven ; when done sift a little pounded sugar over them and salamander, and when quite cold cut them out where they have been marked ; arrange tastily on a dish. Pastry Sandwiches. Roll out good puff-paste very thin—till it is as thin as a wafer, and cut it into two pieces the same44 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY size and shape; lay these on abuttered baking-tin and spread over one of the pieces some preserve ; place the other piece of pastry on the top, press it lightly with the fingers; mark it into squares or oblong pieces where it is afterwards to be cut, and bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven ; sift powdered sugar over them, cut them when cold into strips, and pile them in a circle with whipped cream in the centre, or crosswise on a dish without cream. These sandwiches can be varied by rolling out two squares, one of almond paste and the other of puff paste, to the same size and thickness ; lay the puff paste uppermost and cut them into shapes, brush beaten egg over them, sprinkle sifted sugar upon them, and bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Pineapple Pudding. Take two ounces of butter, the same of flour, half a pint of milk, and four ounces of pineapple cut up into slices ; take the slices of pineapple, the yolks and whites of three eggs, and a tablespoonful of castor sugar ; put the flour and butter together in a stew-pan, and mix well, and let them boil; stir well, add the yolks of eggs one by one, and beat them well in ; now add the pieces of pineapple and sugar, stir very lightly, not to break the pineapple; lastly beat the whites of eggs stiffly and stir well in; put it into a mould and put paper on the top, and steam it for three quarters of an hour; serve a sauce with it composed of half a pint of the liquor of the pineapple, two ounces of sugar, and some lemon- juice, all boiled up till clear. A ginger pudding with preserved ginger can be made in the same way.A LA MODE. 45 Pineapple Pudding (another way). Mix two ounces of flour and two ounces of butter together in a stewpan, and thoroughly mix, add half a pint of milk, and let it boil and keep stirring; then add the yolks of three eggs one by one and beat them well in ; then add four ounces of pine- apple cut up, and a tablespoonful of castor sugar; stir it very lightly so as not to break the pineapple; lastly beat up very stiffly the whites of the eggs and stir in. Put this mixture into a tin, put paper on the top and steam for three quarters of an hour; serve a sauce with it made of half a pint of the liquor of the pineapple, two ounces of loaf sugar, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, all boiled together till clear. Pineapple Souffle. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and put in three ounces of fine flour mixed with half a pint of milk, and boil it till the mixture clings to the spoon ; now have ready three ounces of pine- apple cut very small, and the same quantity of sugar, and put in with the cooked mixture; add one by one three yolks of eggs, and then the whites beaten to a stiff froth; pour into a souffle mould and steam one hour. Serve a sauce with it made of the syrup of the pineapple reduced, one ounce ot white sugar, and a glass of maraschino; colour with a little cochineal. Pippin Tarts. Pare two oranges very thin, boil the peel till tender, shred it fine, pare and core six apples andPUDDINGS AND PASTRY 46 put them in a jar with a gill of water; when half- cooked add half a pound of sugar to the orange juice and peel, and boil till pretty thick ; when cold place in a shallow dish lined with paste, turn* out and eat cold. Potato Cheesecakes. Boil a quarter of a pound of mealy potatoes, mash them well, then add to them two tablespoon- fuls of brandy, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, and the grated rind of half an orange. Mix these ingre- dients well together and bake in hollow patty-pans with puff-paste. Potato Pudding. Take cold boiled potatoes and rub them through a sieve ; then cream a quarter of a pound of butter,, a cupful of sifted sugar, and a quarter of a pound of the grated potato, grated lemon-peel to taste,, and the beaten whites of four eggs ; boil in a buttered mould for two hours. Potato Vanilla Souffle. Scoop the inside out of six potatoes after baking them, and rub it through a sieve or through one of the American potato-mashers. Make a mixture by melting an ounce and a half of butter in not quite half a pint of milk, boil it up, add a few drops of essence of vanilla and sprinkle in very gradually the potato flour. Beat well the yolks of four eggs,, beat separately the four whites very stiffly, then-A LA MODE. 47 mix all together, half-fill a buttered souffle dish, and bake in a quick oven till it rises; serve directly. Princess Pudding. Dissolve half an ounce of leaf gelatine in a quarter of a pint of milk and strain ; beat up three yolks of eggs and put them with the milk ; put this mixture into a stewpan and stir till it thickens, add one ounce of sifted sugar, be sure and not let it boil, pour this into a basin and add a gill of orange-juice and a few drops of cochineal; beat the whites of the three eggs to a froth and pour them in, and stir thoroughly till nearly cold before putting in a mould; then stand on ice. The mould may be ornamented with pale clear jelly. Princess Mary’s Pudding. Take six or seven apples and put them in a saucepan with a very little water, and when hot and cooked, add two ounces of butter, and when cool two well-beaten whole eggs, half a grated French roll, a tablespoonful of cream, a grate of nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of castor sugar; when these are thoroughly blended, put them into little cups and bake them ; when done dust a little fine sugar over them. Punch’s Pudding. Take a pint of cream and boil for a quarter of an hour with sugar, a little lemon-peel and cinnamon to taste; mix a small spoonful of flour with some butter, and stir over the fire a few minutes ; then add the cream to it, beat up three48 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Gggs, a dessert-spoonful of brandy, the same of Marsala, and put them into the mixture ; pour into a mould stuck round with dried cherries, and boil it; serve with fruit sauce. Queen of Puddings. Put three-quarters of a pint of bread-crumbs into a basin, with the grated rinds of two lemons, a little sugar; add one ounce of butter to a pint of boiling milk, and pour it over the bread-crumbs, stirring all the time; then add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and pour all into a well-buttered basin and bake for three-quarters of an hour. When done, turn out on a dish, cover it with raspberry or red currant jam ; have ready the whites of the three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with a little castor sugar, which cover the pudding with, and place it in the oven for two or three minutes to set, but not to brown. Queen Mab’s Pudding. Grate a quarter of a pound of carrots after being well washed, pared, and boiled ; add to them a quarter of a pound of clarified butter, four well- beaten eggs, sugar and brandy to taste ; bake it in puff-paste. Ramsgate Puddings. Take a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of suet, a quarter of a pound of currants, three eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little lemon-peel and nutmeg. Make up into six small cakes, fry them brown, and serve with sweet sauce.49 A LA MODE. Raspberry Custard. Take half a pint of ripe raspberries, pass them through a sieve, mix it into a pint of milk in which a dessert-spoonful of corn flour free from lumps has been stirred, beat a large egg, thoroughly mix it with the other ingredients, and set the whole in a stew-pan to boil; it must be constantly stirred. Ratafia Pudding. Make a rich custard in the usual way, flavoured with a tablespoonful of brandy. Have a pudding- mould buttered, and decorate it thickly with pre- served cherries, and candied peel, and citron ; fill it with ratafias and a crumbled sponge-cake, and cherries, and peel, alternately in layers. Pour the custard over, and then steam the mould for three- quarters of an hour. Ravensworth Pudding. Bake three large apples and pulp them ; add one pint of cream, two handfuls of bread-crumbs, half a pound of pounded loaf-sugar, the grated rind of two lemons, the yolks of four eggs, and the beaten whites of six ; beat all together, but putting the whites of egg last. Butter a pudding-mould, shake in a few bread-crumbs, and roll them round, so that they may adhere to the sides, and then shake out all that remain loose ; now pour in the mixture and bake an hour and a half. Serve with arrow- root sauce with rum in it. E50 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Red Robin. Take a pound of lump sugar and put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of water, and boil till it becomes very thick ; then add about two pounds of apples, peeled and cored, and the grated rind of a lemon ; boil all together till it is quite stiff; keep stirring all the time. Pour it into a buttered mould, and when cold turn out and serve with custard round. Rice Cheesecakes. Mix a quarter of a pound of ground rice with one pint of milk ; stir over the fire till it becomes a paste, but it must not boil. Now add four ounces of butter, stirring till the butter is mixed ; next beat three eggs with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar and a grate of nutmeg. Mix well together; then add four ounces of currants and a few drops of essence of orange, and mix again. Line some patty-pans with puff-paste ; dust a little sugar over them, and bake. . V Rice Croquettes. Make some rhixture as for snow-cream {see Snow-cream), make it very stiff; when cold roll it or serve it in any shape according to fancy; egg and bread-crumb, and fry quickly in hot fat. Sprinkle sugar over and serve. Rice Flummery. Boil a pint of milk, sweeten it with sugar, and add a dessert-spoonful of ground bitter almonds.A LA MODE. 51 Take two tablespoonfuls of ground rice, and mix. it with cold milk, and put it into the boiling milk to thicken it. Stir for some time, then pour it into a damp mould, and let it get cold ; turn it out into a glass dish ; pour a custard round it, and stick alternately thin strips of sweet almonds and pistachio-kernels all over it. Rice Pudding a la Francaise. Pick and wash in two or three waters a Couple of handfuls of rice, and put it to cook in ra'^.her less than a quart of milk, sweetened to taste, and add the third of a rind of lemon cut in one piece, and a small stick of cinnamon. Let the rice simmer gently, till it has absorbed all the milk. Turn out into a basin, and when cold remove the rind and cinnamon. Then stir into it four yolks of eggs, and one whole egg beaten well; add a small quantity of candied citron cut into small pieces, and mix all well together. Butter and bread- crumb a plain tin mould, put the mixture into it, and bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. If a clean bright trussing needle is inserted in it, it comes out quite clean if properly baked. Riz' a rimperatrice. Make a custard, flavoured with noyeau ; and boil some rice, and when the rice is thoroughly cooked and quite dry, mix in the custard and a couple of tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, and half a pint of whipped cream, thoroughly mix, pour into a damp mould, and freeze or stand on ice for two or three hours.PUDUmCS AND PASTRY 52 Rothe Gritzer. A German Dish. Boil one pound of red currants and half a pound of raspberries in a pint and a half of water, and strain through a hair sieve ; put the liquor and ten ounces of loaf sugar to boil again, add six ounces of ground rice and grated lemon-peel to taste; pour into a mould. Rum and Milk Pudding*. Mix a cupful of cornflour with two beaten eggs and a little milk ; add three ounces of sugar, two ounces of warmed butter, a little chopped lemon- peel, and a tablespoonful of rum ; pour this mix- ture into a mould, and either boil or bake it. Russian Pudding. Press out the juice from a pound of cranberries and put it in a stew-pan, and boil it with a teacup- ful of loaf sugar. Have a teacupful of arrowroot, and mix it quite smoothly with about two teacup- fuls of the juice till smooth ; keep stirring the whole time; as soon as the sugar and juice boil stir it into the arrowroot and keep mixing till quite smooth; afterwards let it boil up three times ; pour it into a damp mould, and when cold turn it out and serve cream with it. Russian Sandwiches. Make an ordinary sponge-cake batter, and lay paper on tins ; divide the batter into four ; spread one piece, which should be the largest, over the tinA LA MODE. 53 very thin, then colour the others red with cochineal, brown with chocolate brown, and a small portion green with a little vegetable green, and bake ; when done take off the paper, take the plain piece and trim it into two even sheets, thinning it down with a sharp knife; take the coloured portions and cut them up into even and uneven shreds, together with about the same proportion of any kind of stale sponge-cake; mix them well together; now take about one pound of jam, and add to it one pint of water’and a little essence ; put into this sufficient stale cake-crumbs to make into a paste that will bind the whole together; add in the shred cake and a sprinkle of syrup. Lay out the two plain sheets and spread them with jam, lay on now the paste on one sheet and about one inch in thickness, press it down firmly and evenly all over, and lay the other sheet on top, press and trim round, and cut into pieces two and a half inches long by three-quarters wide, and ice over with pink or white fondant, and marble it, if white, with a feather dipped in cochin- eal. Sago Tarts. Take three tablespoonfuls of sago, steam and stew gently in a pint of milk ; when cold add two eggs well beaten with sugar to taste, add a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice or any fruit syrup, put into patty-pans lined with puff-paste. Tapioca may be used instead of sago. Semolina Quenelles. Stir four eggs, five ounces of semolina, a grate of nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and five ounces of freshPUDDINGS AND PASTRY 54 butter all together. Take a dessertspoonful at a time of this paste and poach in boiling water, when the quenelles will be ready for use; dust castor sugar over and serve red-currant jelly sauce round. SnovT Rice Cream. Put into a stew-pan four ounces of ground rice, two ounces of sugar, a few drops of essence of ratafia, or any other essence, with two ounces of fresh butter, add a quart of milk, boil from fifteen to twenty minutes till it grows a smooth substance, though it must not be too thick ; then pour it into a mould previously oiled, set on ice and serve when cold ; it should turn out like jelly. The rice had better be done a little too much than under. Spanish Fritters. Soak the crumb of a French roll and divide it into three, soak it in milk, dip it into batter, and fry in sweet oil ; before they are quite cooked dip them into batter again and fry till done, drain them, sprinkle hundreds and thousands over them, and pour some syrup round and serve. Spanish Pudding. Mix a spoonful of flour with the yolks of three eggs and half a pint of cream ; put it into cups and stir in two ounces of citron, cut thin ; bake and turn out in a dish. Steam Pudding. Boil a pint of fresh milk with some lemon-peel and cinnamon to taste, four eggs, the whites beatenA LA MODE. 55 and strained; mix as if for baked custard, put all into a covered basin or mould ; set in a saucepan with the water half up, and boil for about twenty- five minutes. Strawberry Meringue Pudding. Line a dish with puff-paste; at the bottom of the dish spread a layer of strawberry jam; pour in a custard made with two ounces of butter stirred over a fire till quite smooth, adding gradually half a pint of milk and one ounce of sugar ; when it is thick (it must not boil) turn it into a basin, and when nearly cold add the yolks of two eggs; put this on the jam and bake one hour ; whip the whites of the eggs quite stiff with a tablespoonful of castor sugar, and put on the top ten minutes before sending to table. It should be put back in the oven for a minute after the whip is on, to set it and give it a slight brown colour. Strawberry Pudding. See Pineapple Pudding, substituting straw- berries for the pineapple, and adding besides three or four drops of cochineal. Strawberry Tart (open). Line an open tart-dish with puff-paste, fill it with rice or barley and bake it, and when baked take out the rice, etc., and have ready to put in a pound of strawberries which have been boiled with a pound of sifted sugar and a little water. The syrup should be boiled up and then poured through a sieve over the fruit. May be eaten hot or cold.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 56 Strawberry Tartlets. Line some tartlet-tins with puff-paste. Pinch the edge of the paste a little higher than the tin and place a dummy of baked paste and flour in the centre of each tartlet; bake them, remove the dummies, and sift a little castor sugar over, and salamander them. Have ready sufficient straw- berries, with the stalks removed, in a basin, and pour on them some boiling syrup made by boiling half a pound of lump sugar in a gill of water; directly the syrup has been poured over the strawberries cover them with paper, which must be turned over the edge of the basin to keep in the heat and steam. Let them remain thus for an hour, then strain the syrup off and boil it up, and thicken with a little arrowroot mixed with a very little cold water, and which must be stirred in when the syrup is boiling ; add a few drops of cochineal ; when thick enough pour the syrup over the strawberries, let them stand a little, and then fill the tartlet-cases well up. Cherries, gooseberries, apricots, etc., can all be used for these tartlets. Sutton Pudding-. Take the yolks of four eggs, a pint of milk, a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, and half a tea- spoonful of essence of vanilla ; put them in a jug, which stand in a saucepan of boiling water, stirring it all the time till it becomes a good substance, then pour it into a mould to get cold, and turn out. Swiss Tartlets. Roll out some puff-paste very thin ; stamp out with a large cutter the number required. Have57 A LA MODE. ready some fluted pastry-pans and put one piece into each, and then put in a mixture of currants, sultanas, candied peel chopped fine, and a few drops of raisin wine ; place in the oven and bake. Syllabubs, Whipped. Make a strong whip as for trifle ; mix a pint of cream with half a pint of Marsala, sugar to taste ; flavour with the juice of a lemon and a little cinna- mon. Stir briskly and fill the glasses within half an inch of the brim. Take a spoon and lay a little of the whip on the top of each. Tangerine Tubes. Beat two eggs till they are white, add to them their weight in sifted sugar, the same of flour, the juice of two Tangerine oranges and half their peel grated, stir well. Butter a large sheet of tin, spread on it very thin cakes the size of a small saucer. Bake them a pale colour and while still warm roll them up on any wooden roller from which they will easily slip off The juice of a lemon can be substituted for that of the oranges. Tapioca Mould. Take three ounces of tapioca, wash tw^o or three times, and mix it with two ounces of corn- flour ; add half a pint of cold water, and let it re- main for half an hour, then one and a half pint of milk, and simmer half an hour, stirring the whole time ; add some flavouring, about eight drops, and pour into a cold damp mould.58 PUDDINGS AND PAStRY Tipsy Puddings. Beat up for ten minutes four eggs, freed from the speck, and four ounces of castor sugar, into which gradually mix four ounces of Vienna flour. Warm some college-pudding moulds, and roll liquefied butter round them, so that they are equally buttered, and pour off any superfluous butter, and then quickly powder in some castor sugar and turn them round to get a coating of sugar all over, and shake out any superfluity of it. Fill the moulds with the egg mixture and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes in a slow oven. When cooked turn out the puddings, and melt three tablespoonfuls of loaf- sugar in half a tumbler of old rum. Put the puddings on the dish and pour the rum mixture over, and strew chopped pistachio-kernels over the top, and a preserved cherry on the top of each, and serve cold. Tomato Tart. Take a pound of tomatoes, skin and cut them into slices and lay them in a tart-dish, and sift over them some powdered ginger and salt; then make a tomato puree of tomatoes, the juice of a lemon, some sugar to taste, and one well-beaten egg; mix all together, then add in a couple of table- spoonfuls of cream and pour over the stewed tomatoes, and put on the crust and bake. Turret Puddings. Take two eggs, add their weight in flour, also in butter and sugar ; melt the butter, add flour and sugar, beat up the eggs, pour in and beat thoroughly;59 A LA MODE, fill some small dariole tins with this mixture, and bake for about twenty minutes. Serve wine sauce at the base of them. Vanilla Rusk Pudding. Cream an ounce of butter and mix in a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, stir over the fire for a few minutes, add an egg well beaten and half a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and keep on stir- ring till it is thick ; spread four slices of rusk with this paste, put them in a buttered tart-dish ; boil half a pint of milk, pour it on to a well-beaten egg, then add it to the rusk, and put the pudding to bake in a slow oven for an hour. Turn out when done, and sift the sugar over the pudding. A little diluted preserve poured over the pudding is an improve- ment. Venus Pudding. Take a pint mould, butter it and decorate it with candied ginger, make a rich custard with six yolks of eggs and the whites of three, half a pint of cream, and loaf sugar to taste; dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in sufficient milk to fill up the mould; when cold add a glass of rum, pour the mixture into the mould and place it on ice to set. Before adding the gelatine put aside a little of the custard for sauce, and add some ginger syrup to it. Victoria Pudding. Warm a quarter of a pound of butter, mix with it the same quantity of loaf sugar, a very little flour, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of three; make6o PUDDINGS AND PASTRY puff-paste round a pudding dish, and put in some apricot jam at the bottom, pour the custard mixture on the top. Bake an hour ; when finished whisk up the whites of the egg left and place the froth on the top when serving. Victoria Sandwiches. Cream half a pound of butter; work into it half a pound of white sugar, and the same of flour; incor- porate them together gradually, beating the mix- ture all the time. Whisk four eggs to snow and stir them into the paste, continuing to beat; butter a very shallow baking-tin, pour the batter in and bake in a good oven for twenty minutes ; when it is cold, spread jam on one half, turn the other half upon it, press the pieces together and sprinkle powdered sugar on the top, cut the cake in fingers and mount them high on a dish, all crossing each other. Wafers filled with Cream. Beat together two ounces of Vienna flour, four ounces of castor sugar and two eggs, then roll out at once ; rub a baking-sheet with wax and place in a quick oven ; cut out six circles and curl up when hot; fill these with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla ; arrange them on a dish in a circle and serve cold. They look well alternately one white and one pink cream. Walmer Pudding. Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan with a pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a littleA LA MODE. 6i sugar, the grated rind of a large lemon ; mix all into the melted butter, stirring it briskly till it becomes a thick paste, then add four well-beaten eggs, butter a mould and bake it; when cold turn it out and spread over it jam and chopped almonds. Sir Watkin Wynn’s Pudding. Mix all together six, ounces of chopped lemon- peel, four ounces of beef suet, four ounces of bread- crumbs, one tablespoonful of flour, three ounces of moist sugar, two ounces of apricot jam, a small liqueur glass of maraschino or of curagoa, one dessertspoonful of milk, and three eggs ; after mixing pour into a buttered mould, and steam three hours. Apricot-jam sauce should be served under the pudding ; the sauce is made by mixing half a pot of apricot jam in a saucepan with half a pint of water and a glass of sherry, boiled and strained.62 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY PASTRY A LA MODE. Windsor Tartlets. Cream half a pound of butter with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, half a pound of stale Savoy cake crumbled and sifted ; add half a pound of apples cored and chopped very fine, the same of currants and stoned raisins, all chopped fine, the grated peel of one lemon, a little noyeau, and five eggs well beaten ; mix all together, put into small tartlet-pans lined with puff-paste, and bake. Cream. Take two pints of flour and stir in half a pint of double cream and a pinch of salt; when mixed roll out the paste and leave for half an hour; add half a pound of butter; roll five times and cut out into fancy shapes ; glaze with beaten yolk of egg and bake. Feuilletage, or French Puff-Paste. Take one pound of good fresh butter, and the same of sifted Vienna flour ; break some bits of butter (very small) into the flour, put in the centre half a teaspoonful of salt, and pour on just enough water to dissolve it; then take the yolks of two eggs and add a little water to them, and moisten the flour very gradually, and make it into a very smooth paste, not very stiff. Take the remainder of the butter, squeeze out any moisture there may63 A LA MODE. be, and form it into a ball (if it gets very soft put it on ice). Next roll the crust out square and of sufficient size to enclose the butter, flatten this a little in the centre, and fold the crust well over, and roll it out thin as lightly as possible ; this is one turn ; then fold it in three and give it another turn, and set it aside to cool for a few minutes ; give it two more turns in the same way, rolling it each time very lightly, but of equal thickness, and to its full length; let it again be put aside to get cold, and after it has been twice rolled and folded in three, give it half a turn by folding it once only, and it will be ready for baking. Flaky Crust. Put one pound of flour in a basin, and mix into it a teaspoonful of baking powder ; whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the flour with a gill of water, and work it into a stiff paste ; flour the board, put the paste on it, and roll it out to a very thin sheet. Divide half a pound of butter into three portions ; take one part and spread it all over the paste with a knife, sprinkle a little flour over and fold the paste in three; roll it out and spread another portion of the butter over it; fold the paste again, and add the remaining portion of the butter ; fold the paste again and roll it out to the thickness required ; it should be baked in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. Light Crust. Make a soft paste with one pound of flour, water, and a pinch of salt; leave for half an hour.64 PUDDINGS AND PAS TP V roll it out, spread some fresh butter over it, fold and roll it out again ; repeat this three or four times, cut it out in fancy shapes, and bake in a quick oven. Puff-Paste. Dry and sift a pound of flour and put it on a marble slab (if there is one) ; make a hole in the centre, and put into it half a teaspoonful of salt and not quite half a pint of water ; mix this in with a knife till it is a clear smooth paste; work it lightly with the hands till it ceases to adhere to the board ; let it remain to cool for two minutes, then flatten the paste till it is an inch thick ; have ready three- quarters of a pound of butter free from salt and moisture, and lay the butter on in the centre, and fold over the four sides of the paste so as to form a square and completely hide the butter ; let this cool for a few minutes, then dredge the slab or board and the paste with flour, and roll the paste out till it is three feet in length ; take care the butter does not break through the flour ; fold over a third of the length from one end, and lay the other third upon it; let the paste rest for ten minutes, then give it two more turns; then let it rest and give it two more turns, making in all five turns. The paste should be baked as soon as possible ; for patties and vol- au-vent six or seven turns will be required. Short Crust. Take a quarter of a pound of flour and three ounces of butter ; mix them well; lightly rub them with the hands till no lumps are left and it all looks crumbly ; mix about a tablespoonful of castor65 A LA MODE. sugar with the flour, heap it all up on the board and make a hole in the centre ; take the yolk of an egg and sprinkle a little salt over it, then add a few drops of strained lemon-juice ; mix all these till they become a stiff paste ; roll out the paste once to the size and thickness required. This paste will take from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour to bake, according to the size of the tart; it should become a pale brown colour. Pastry Dummies. To keep tartlets and cheesecakes a good shape a dummy should always be placed in each ; they are made by boiling two ounces of lard in a pint of water, then adding two pounds of flour, and mixing into a smooth and rather stiff paste ; mix with a wooden spoon to begin and finish with the hands, and divide it into equal portions the size of the thickest half of an egg, and squeeze the centre into a point about a quarter of an inch long ; bake them and keep them ready for placing one in each tartlet before baking, and remove them when the tartlets are baked. F■'- -■ V- •■";T7r; M ' '■ v^.": ■ -I'Oi ■•! ..i _ j ;. - -L. ► K ■ *' ' -V, ^i-V - '■'u,.'^)" /' '»• ■ ' '■l*i^.v^'''''‘^“v: ■"'j ,-^^j , .-i . ,■ *» '-A - ' . ■ • . ^■:>.:■ : ■ , '' ^r.SiW v‘;-3 V V ■■', i 1^ ' .:-., ' ii';,' _ ■ ' VV''^4. '■.'■> V^i’i,.-. •> , '■ _“.' .■ * i . .;,i4^'.‘>i|i- ■ ■ v.r->^'-^<‘'v'S' , J '.•■■'"S : / .C;‘v -W ^-*^-1 ; - t ■t ; ♦iiw V^' .t.'.’ • V' l' ■ V .t.i V ;4* / -if t ■ ; -- ‘ \ . JK f * " ^ ..' *-1 'i' 'O .Lm V.,,: r/F 2 INDEX Albert pudding, i Alena pudding, i Almond pudding, 2 — tartlets, 2 Amber pudding, 2 Apple balls, boiled, 11 — charlotte, 3 — fancy, 3 — hedgehog, 3 — meringue, 4 — pudding, baked, 8 — and rice souffle, 4 — and tapioca pudding, 5 — tartlets with cream, 5 Apricot fritters, 5 •— pudding, 6 a la royale, 6 Ascot tartlet, 6 Baba a St. Jacques, 7 Baked apple pudding, 8 Bakewell pudding, 7 Ball fritters, 8 Batter pudding, 8 Beignets souffles, 9 Bengal custards, 9 Berkeley pudding, 9 Berlin pancakes, 10 Bird’s-nest pudding, 10 Blackberry tart, 11 Boiled apple balls, 11 Bread and butter pudding, 11 Bread cheesecakes, 12 — fritters, 12 Brown bread pudding, 13 Buckingham pudding, 13 Cabinet pudding, cold, 14 iced, 14 Calfs-foot pudding, 14 Camp pudding, 15 Canary pudding, 15 Capital pudding, 15 Caramel pudding, 16 Chocolate fingers, 16 — pudding, 17 cold, 16 — souffle, 17 Citron pudding, 18 — tartlets, 18 Clarence pudding, 18 Coburg pudding, 19 Cocoa-nut pudding, 19 — tartlets, 20 College pudding, 20 Compote of chestnuts, 20 Countess pudding, 21 Cranberry and apple tart, 2i Cream pastry, 62 Crust, flaky, 63 — light, 63 — short, 64 Curates’ puddings, 21 Custard and brandy puddings, 22 — puddings, 2268 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE. Daisy tartlets, 22 Dalhousie pudding, 23 Devonshire pudding, 23 ■— tartlets, 23 Diplomatique pudding, 24 Dolly Varden pudding, 24 Duchess cakes, 25 English pudding, 25 Eve’s pudding, 26 Every-day pudding, 26 Fanchonnettes au cage, 26 Feuilletage, 62 French pancake, 26 — puff paste, 62 Frivolites, 27 Fun pudding, 28 Gala pudding, 28 Gateau de cerises, 29 Genoise pastry aux amandes, 29 aux pistaches, 29 German pudding, 30 — puffs, 30 — sandwiches, 31 Gingerbread pudding, 31 Golden balls, 31 Hedgehog pudding, 31 Italian pudding, 32 Jam fritters, 32 — souffle, 33 Joy pudding, 33 Jubilee pudding, 33 Lemon cup custards, 34 — dumplings, 33 Lemon gingerbread, 34 — paste for cheesecakes, 34 — puddings, 35 — roll, 36 — tartlets, 36 Lucullus baskets, 36 Madeira pudding, 37 Madeleine pudding, 37 Marmalade pudding, 37 Metropole pudding, 38 Mikado tarts, 38 Mincemeat en surprise, 38 Mirletons a la fran9aise, 39 Mocha pudding, 39 Motzo pudding, 40 Napoleon cake, 40 Norfolk dumplings, 40 Nun’s sighs, 40 Open tart a la Metternich, 41 Orange cheesecakes, 41 — fritters, 41 — pudding, 42 — sponge, 42 — tart, 42 Pastry a I’artoise, 43 — dummies, 65 — sandwiches, 43 Pineapple pudding, 44-45 — souffle, 45 Pippin tarts, 45 Potato cheesecakes, 46 — pudding, 46 — vanilla souffle, 46 Princess Mary’s pudding, 47 Princess pudding, 47 Pudding, Albert, l — alena, i — almond, 269 INDEX. Pudding, amber, 2 — apple and rice, 4 and tapioca, 5 baked, 8, 11 — apricot, 6 a la royale, 6 — bakewell, 7 — batter, 8 — Berkeley, 9 — bird’s-nest, 10 — bread and butter, 11 — brown bread, 13 — Buckingham, 13 — cabinet, 14 — calf s-foot, 14 — camp,* 15 — canary, 15 — the capital, 15 — caramel, 16 — chocolate, 16, 17 — Clarence, 18 — citron, 18 — Coburg, 19 — cocoa-nut, 19 — college, 20 ■— countess, 21 — curates’, 21 — custard, 22 and brandy, 22 — Dalhousie, 23 — Devonshire, 23 — diplomatique, 24 — Dolly Varden, 24 — English, 25 — Eve’s, 26 — every-day, 26 >— fun, 28 — gala, 28 — German, 30 — gingerbread, 31 — hedgehog, 31 — Italian, 32 — joy» 33 — jubilee, 33 — lemon, 35 boiled, 35 — Madeira, 37 Pudding, Madeleine, 37 — marmalade, 37 — metropole, 38 — Mocha, 39 ■— Motzo, 40 — orange, 42 — pineapple, 44-45 — potato, 46 — princess, 47 ■— Princess Mary’s, 47 — Punch’s, 47 -— queen of, 48 — Queen Mab’s, 48 — Ramsgate, 48 — ratafia, 49 — Ravensworth, 49 — rice, a la fran9aise, 51 — rum and milk, 52 — Russian, 52 —- Spanish, 54 — steam, 54 — strawberry, 55 meringue, 55 — Sutton, 56 — tipsy, 58 — turret, 58 — vanilla rusk, 59 — Venus, 59 — Victoria, 59 — Walmer, 60 — Sir Watkin Wynn’s, Ci Puff paste, 64 Punch’s pudding, 47 Queen of puddings, 48 Queen Mab’s puddings, 48 Ramsgate puddings, 48 Raspberry custard, 49 Ratafia pudding, 49 Ravensworth pudding, 49 Red Robin, 50 Rice cheesecakes, 5070 PUDDINGS AND PAS TP V A LA MODE, Rice croquettes, 50 — flummery, 50 — pudding a la fran9aise, 51 Riz a I’imperatrice, 51 Rothe Gritzer, 52 Rum and milk pudding, 52 Russian pudding, 52 — sandwiches, 52 Sago tarts, 53 Semolina quenelles, 53 Snow rice cream, 54 Spanish fritters, 54 — pudding, 54 Steam pudding, 54 Strawberry meringue pudding, 55 — pudding, 55 — tart (open), 55 — tartlets, 96 Sutton puddings, 56 ^ ‘ Swiss tartlets, 56 Syllabubs, whipped, 57 Tangerine tubes, 57 Tapioca mould, 57 Tipsy puddings, 58 Tomato tart, 58 Turret puddings, 58 Vanilla rusk pudding, 59 Venus pudding, 59 Victoria pudding, 59 ■— sandwiches, 60 ^ Wafers filled with cream, 60 Waimer pudding, 60 Sir Watkin Wynn’s puddings, 61 Windsor tartlets, 61 PRINTED BY M'OTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE LONDON