THE SKELETON 12 splenitis colli, intertra.nsversales, interspinales, levator anguli scapulae, transversa lis cervicis, scalenus medius, semispinalis colli, and multiriclus spinas. To the seventh :—Trapezius, complexus, serratus posticus superior, splenius, rhomboideus minor, multifidus spinas, semispinalis, eight intertransversales, inter- spinales, levator costas, scalenus posticus, aecessoi-ius, scalenus medius, trachelo- mastoid, and the longus colli. THE THORACIC OR DORSAL VERTEBRA The general characters of the thoracic vertebra? have already been considered in the description of the type vertebra. Their most distinguishing features are the facets on the transverse processes and sides of the bodies for the tubercles and heads of ribs. Peculiar thoracic vertebrae.—Several vertebras in this series differ from the type form. The exceptional are—the first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first has a body resembling a cervical vertebra, the upper surface being concave and lipped laterally; it has two entire facets above for the first pair, and two demi-facets below for the second pair of ribs. The spinous process is thick, strong, almost horizontal, and more prominent than that of the vertebra promi- nens. Occasionally the transverse process is perforated near its root. The ninth has demi-facets above, and usually none below; when the inferior demi-facets are present, this vertebra is not exceptional. The tenth usually has an entire costal facet at its upper border, on each side, but occasionally only demi-facets. It has no lower demi-facets, and the facets on the transverse processes are usually small. The eleventh has a large body resembling a lumbar vertebra. The rib facets are on the pedicles; they are complete and of large size. The transverse processes are short and have no facets for the tubercles of the eleventh pair of ribs. In many mammals, the spines of the anterior vertebra? are directed backwards, and those of the posterior directed forwards; in the centre of the column there is usually one spine vertical. This is called the anti-clinal vertebra. It is at this point that the thoracic begin to assume the characters of lumbar vertebra?. In man, the eleventh thoracic is the anti-clinal vertebra. The twelfth resembles in general characters the eleventh, but may be distin- guished from it in having the inferior articular processes convex and turned outwards as in the lumbar vertebra?. It also resembles a lumbar vertebra by pos- sessing well-marked mammillary and accessory tubercles. These tubercles are occasionally present on the tenth and eleventh vertebra?. A peculiarity, more frequent in the thoracic and lumbar than in the cervical and sacral regions of the column, is the existence of a half-vertebra. Such speci- mens have a wedge-shaped half-centrum, to which are attached a lamina, a trans- verse, superior and inferior articular, and half a spinous process. As a rule, a half-vertebra is ankylosed to the vertebra? above and below. LUMBAR VERTEBRAE The distinguishing features of lumbar vertebra? are their large size; the margins of the centrum are prominent; the pedicles are stout and strong; the inferior intervertebral notches are deep, and the laminae are thick and strong. The superior articular processes have concave facets directed backwards and inwards, and their posterior borders are surmounted by rounded mammillary processes or tubercles. The inferior articular processes have facets which look forwards and outwards. The transverse processes are long, slender, arid each presents near the base, on the posterior aspect, a small accessory tubercle. The spinous processes are thick, broad, and project horizontally backwards. The transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae are more complex than they at first appear. Each is compounded of a transverse and a costal process. The accessory process represents