925 THE PERICARDIUM The bronchial arteries, one on the right side, and two on the left, are the nutrient vessels of the lungs. The right springs from the first aortic intercostal artery or from the upper left bronchial artery. The two left bronchial arteries are branches of the descending thoracic aorta. Some of their branches ramify in an open plexus outside the lung beneath the pleura ; another set supply the 'inter- lobular areolar tissue; whilst a third set of branches supply the bronchial tubes with their lining membrane and muscular walls, the walls of the vessels, and the bronchial glands. The ramifications of this set reach and mingle with the pul- monary vessels, and thus a small quantity of the blood conveyed by the bronchial arteries is returned as arterial through the pulmonary veins to the heart. The bronchial veins consist of a superficial and a deep set, which join, to form a single vessel on each side; the right bronchial vein opens into the vena azygos major, and the left into the left superior intercostal vein. The lymphatics form a superficial and a deep set. The nerves are derived from the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses. THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION THE PERICARDIUM The pericardium is a cone-shaped, fibro-serous sac surrounding the heart, with its apex above, and its base below and adherent to the diaphragm. The fibrous layer is very strong and inelastic, and is composed of interlacing fibres. Below, its connection with the central tendon of the diaphragm is close and intimate. It is very firmly bound to the cava! opening, but loosely attached and easily separable elsewhere. Above, it is lost on the sheaths of the great vessels, all of which receive distinct investments, with the single exception of the inferior vena cava, which pierces it from below. The aorta, superior vena cava, both divisions of the pulmonary artery, with the ductus arteriosus, together with the four pulmonary veins, are all ensheathed in this manner. The fibrous portion of the pericardium, through the sheaths pro- longed over the great vessels, ultimately becomes continuous above with the deep cervical fascia. Two slight bands of fibrous tissue—the sterno-pericardial bands or ligaments—connect the front of the pericardium, above and below, with tbe posterior surface of the sternum. The serous layer is smooth and glistening. Its parietal portion lines the inner surface of the fibrous bag. The visceral portion is reflected over the surface of the heart and the roots of the great vessels, the two layers being in close contact, and moistened with a thin secretion to allow the free movement of the heart. A series of pouches or sinuses are thus formed at the line of reflexion. Between the inferior vena cava and lower left pulmonary vein, the oblique sinus ascends behind the left auricle, partially investing the pulmonary arteries and the pul- monary veins of the right and left sides, between which it passes. Small pouches from the main sac dip between the veins to meet the inflexions from the sides of the oblique sinus just noticed, thus completing the serous coverings to these vessels. Pouches can be further traced between the inferior vena cava and lower pulmo- nary vein of the right side, between the superior vena cava and upper pulmonary vein of the same side, and also between the left pulmonary artery and left upper pulmonary vein. A tubular prolongation, moreover, surrounds both the root of the pulmonary artery and the aorta in common, and these are the only vessels which can be said to have a complete and continuous investment. There is, therefore, a communication behind them between the right and left