THE LACHRYMAL AND VOMER 53 The outer surface is concave, and overhung by the auricular or maxillary process. The inner surface is convex and pitted with depressions. The superior border presents from before backwards three processes: the first is called the lachrymal process, because it articulates with the turbinal process of the lachrymal bone. The margin of bone at the base of this process comes into relation with the nasal process of the maxilla. The second vertical spiculum is the ethmoidal process, which joins the uncinate process of the ethmoid. The third or maxillary process is a thin lamella of bone, turned downwards; it overhangs the orifice of the maxillary sinus, and serves to fix the bone firmly to the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The margin posterior to the maxillary process comes into relation with the inferior turbinal crest of the palate bone. The inferior border is rounded and free. It is the thickest part of the bone. The extremities are narrow, the posterior being the more pointed. Articulations.—The inferior turbinal articulates with the maxilla, lachrymal, palate, and ethmoid. The inferior turbinal is ossified from a single nucleus which appears about the fifth month of intra-uterine life. At birth it is a relatively large bone, and fills up the lower part of the nasal fossa. THE LACHRYMAL The lachrymal bones are extremely thin and delicate, quadrilateral in shape, and situated at the anterior part of the inner wall of the orbit. They are the smallest of the facial bones. The outer or orbital surface is divided by a vertical ridge into two unequal portions. The anterior smaller portion is deeply grooved to form the lachrymal sulcus, which lodges the lachrymal sac and forms the commencement of the lachrymal duct. The portion behind the ridge is smooth, and forms part of the inner wall of the orbit. The ridge gives origin to the tensor tarsi muscle, and terminates inferiorly in a hook-like process, the hamulus, which curves forwards to articulate with the lachrymal tubercle of the maxilla and completes the superior orifice of the lachrymal canal. The inner surface is in relation with the two anterior cells of the ethmoid (lachrymo-ethmoid), and forms part of the infundi- bulum. The superior border is short, and articulates with the internal angular process of the frontal. The lower border posterior to the crest joins the inner edge of the orbital plate of the maxilla. The narrow piece, anterior to the ridge, is prolonged downwards to join the lachrymal spine of the inferior turbinal, and is called the turbinal process. The anterior border comes into relation with the posterior border of the nasal process of the maxilla. The posterior border articu- lates with the os planum of the ethmoid. Articulations.—The lachrymal articulates with the ethmoid, maxilla, frontal and inferior turbinal bones. Blood-supply.—Its arteries are derived from the infraorbital, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the anterior ethmoidal. Ossification.—This bone arises in the membrane overlying the cartilage of the fronto-nasal plate. Its mode of ossification is very variable. As a rule it is de- scribed as coming from one nucleus. Not unfrequently the hamulus is a separate element. Sometimes the bone is divided horizontally, and a process of the os planum projects between the two halves to join the nasal process of the maxilla. More rarely the bone is represented by a group of detached ossicles resembling Wormian bones. THE VOMER The vomer is an irregular four-sided plate of bone constituting the lower portion of the nasal septum. It is usually described as resembling a ploughshare in shape. Each lateral surface is covered by the thick mucous membrane of the nasal sinus, and is traversed by a narrow but well-marked groove, which lodges the naso-