485 LING UA L—FA CIA L branches with the vessel of the opposite side; but the anastomosis is so minute that when one lingual artery is injected, the injection merely passes across to the oppo- site side at the tip of the tongue; and when the tongue is divided accurately in the middle line, as in the removal of one-half of that organ, practically no haemorrhage occurs. (3) The sublingual artery (fig. 333) usually comes off from the lingual at the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus. It passes beneath the mylo-hyoid to the sublingual gland, which it supplies, and, perforating the muscle, anastomoses with the submental artery, a branch of the facial. It also supplies branches to the side of the tongue, and gives off a terminal twig, which anastomoses beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth (to which it also gives twigs ) with the artery of the opposite side. The artery of the fraenum is usually derived from this vessel (fig. 333). (4) The ranine artery, the termination of the lingual, courses forwards beneath the mucous membrane, on the under surface of the tongue, to the tip. It lies external to the genio-hyo-glossus, between that muscle and the inferior lingualis, and is accompanied by the ranine vein and terminal branch of the gustatory nerve. It follows a very tortuous course, so that it is not stretched when the tongue is protruded. Branches are given off from it to the contiguous muscles and mucous membrane. Near the tip of the tongue it communicates with its fellow of the oppo- site side, as shown by the fact that when the lingual artery of one side is injected the injection fluid passes into the branches of the artery of the other side. 4. THE FACIAL ARTERY The facial artery (fig. 334)-—also called the external maxillary—arises imme- diately above the lingual from the fore part of the external carotid, at times as a common trunk with the lingual. It courses forwards and upwards in a tortuous manner to the lower jaw, and, passing over the body of this bone at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle, winds obliquely upwards and forwards over the face to the inner canthus of the eye, where it inosculates, under the name of the angular artery, with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. It is usually divided into two portions—the cervical and the facial. The cervical portion (fig. 334) ascends tortuously from its origin from the external carotid upwards and forwards beneath the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, ancl usually also beneath the hypoglossal nerve, and then making a turn runs horizontally forwards for a short way beneath the jaw, either imbedded in or lying under the submaxillary gland. It has here the mylo-hyoid and stylo-glossus beneath it. On leaving the cover of the gland it forms a loop passing first downwards and then upwards over the lower border of the jaw imme- diately in front of the masseter muscle, where it is superficial, being merely covered by the integument and platysma. Here it can be felt beating, and can be readily compressed. In the above course it lies in the posterior part of the submaxillary triangle, and, in addition to the structures already mentioned as crossing it, is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma, and by one or two submaxil- lary lymphatic glands. The vein is separated from the artery by the submaxillary gland, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the stylo-hyoid muscle, and the hypoglossal nerve. The facial portion (fig. 334) of the facial artery ascends tortuously forwards towards the angle of the mouth, passing under the platysma (risorius) and zygomatic muscles and the supramaxillary and buccal branches of the facial nerve. It here lies upon the jaw and the buccinator muscle. Thence it courses upwards by the side of the nose towards the inner canthus of the eye, being covered by the levator labii superioris, levator labii superioris akeque nasi, and infraorbital branches of the facial nerve, and lying on the levator anguli oris (sometimes on the levator labii superioris, instead of below it) and the infraorbital branches of the fifth nerve. The facial vein takes a much straighter course than the artery, is separated from it by the zygomatic muscles, and lies to its outer side.