400 THE MUSCLES The central tendon, or aponeurosis, forms the summit of the dome, and is of a similar outline to the diaphragm, being kidney-shaped, with the concavity behind. It approaches nearer the back than the front of the thorax. There is a slight notching of its outline in front, which divides it into three parts, so that it has somewhat of a trefoil shape, the right leaflet being the largest, and the left the smallest. Its fibres run in many directions. The diaphragm contains three large foramina, for the passage of the vena cava inferior, oesophagus, and aorta. Foramina.—Close to the posterior border of the central tendon at the junction of the right and middle leaflet is a quadrilateral opening with rounded angles, the foramen for the vena cava inferior, the outer coat of which vessel is blended with its fibrous edges. The oesophageal opening is oval, with the long diameter directed forwards. It is surrounded by fleshy fibres, and lies to the left of the middle line, opposite the body of the ninth thoracic vertebra. Through it passes the oesophagus, with the left vagus nerve in front, and the right behind; also a few small oesophageal branches from the thoracic aorta, on their way to join some small oesophageal branches from the gastric artery. The aortic opening, formed by the union of the crura, is fibrous, and of oval shape. It is situated in front of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, and is completed behind by the anterior common ligament. Through it pass the aorta, the vena azygos major, and the thoracic duct. In the crura on either side are small openings which allow of the passage of the great splanchnic nerves, and the left crus is usually perforated also by the vena azygos minor. Nerve-supply.—The two phrenic nerves, chiefly derived from the cervical plexus of each side through the fourth cervical nerves, break up close to the diaphragm into many filaments, which penetrate the muscular structure near the anterior border of the central tendon, and are distributed to the under surface of the muscle. Sympathetic filaments are also given to it from the plexuses which accompany the phrenic arteries. Action.—To deepen the chest from above downwards, and so produce a move- ment of inspiration. The central tendon, especially the middle part of it, which is closely connected by means of the pericardium with the deep fascia of the neck, is but little depressed; but the arched fleshy fibres all around flatten, and so