THE ARTICULATIONS 192 lateral surfaces; and some do not completely surround the rest, but terminate at the intervertebral foramina, so that on horizontal section the circumferential portion is seen to be thinner posteriorly. The more central lamellae are incomplete, less firm, and not so distinct as the rest; and as they near the pulp they gradually assume its characters, becoming more fibro-cartilaginous and less fibrous, and have cartilage cells in their structure. The central portion is situated somewhat behind the centre of the disc, form- ing a ball of very elastic and tightly compressed material, which bulges freely when the confining pressure of the laminar portion is removed by either horizontal or vertical section. Thus, it has a constant tendency to spring out of its confinement in the direction of least resistance, and constitutes a pivot round which the bodies of the vertebrae can twist, tilt, or incline. It is yellowish in colour, and is com- posed of a fine fibrous matrix containing cartilage cells and fluid in its meshes. Together with the most central laminae, it is separated from immediate contact Fig. 201.—Posterior Common Ligament of the Spine. (Thoracic region.) with the bone by a thin plate of articular cartilage. The central pulp of the inter- vertebral substance is the persistent part of the notochord. The intervertebral substances vary in shape with the bodies of the vertebrae they unite, and are widest and thickest in the lumbar region. In the cervical and lumbar regions they are thicker in front than behind, and cause the convexity for- wards of the cervical, and increase that of the lumbar; the curve in the thoracic region, almost entirely due to the shape of the bodies, is, however, somewhat increased by the discs. Without the discs the column loses a quarter of its length, and assumes a curve with the concavity forwards, most marked a little below the mid-thoracic region. Such is the curve of old age, which is due to the shrinking and drying up of the intervertebral substances. The disc between the axis and third cervical is the thinnest of all (fig. 195); that between the fifth lumbar and sacrum is the thickest, and is much thicker in front than behind (fig. 206). The intervertebral discs are in relation, in front with the anterior common ligament; (Pedicles cut through, and posterior arches of vertebrae removed.)