423 R 0 TA TORES SPINM—INTER TRANS VERS ALES 5. ROTATORES SPIN.E The rotatores spinse—named from the rotatory action which they impress upon the spine—are small rhomboidal sheets, chiefly found in the thoracic region, where they, form a series of eleven pairs, but occasionally found also in the upper lumbar and the lower cervical regions. Origin.—The back and upper border of the transverse process. Insertion.—The lower border of the lamina of the next vertebra above. Structure.—Sheets of parallel fibres, almost entirely fleshy, which run upwards and inwards. Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior primary branches. Action.—To rotate to the opposite side, and also to extend and laterally flex, the vertebra which receives its insertion. Relations.—Superficially, the multifidus spina?; deeply, the ligamentasubflava. Seventh Layee The seventh group consists of short vertical muscles, the interspinales and intertransversales, which lie on a deep plane internal and external to the transverso- spinales, and under cover of the longer vertical muscles which form the fifth layer of the back. 1. INTERSPINALES The interspinales—named from their position—are small ribbon-like muscles which run vertically between the spines, especially in the cervical and lumbar regions. Origin.—The upper surface of the spine of the vertebra, near its tip. Insertion.—The posterior part of the lower surface of the spine of the vertebra above. Structure.—In the neck the bundles are attached to the two parts of the bifid extremities of the spines from the axis downwards. In the lumbar region they form broader bands attached to the whole length of the spines, and separated by the interspinous ligaments. Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior branches of the spinal nerves. Action.—To extend the vertebra next above. Relations.—Behind, the spinales and complexus; internally, the interspinous ligaments; externally, the multifidus spina?. Variations.—Occasionally they pass over one spine to be inserted upon the next but one. The spinalis colli, when present, may be looked upon as a still greater extension of this variation. 2. INTERTRANSVERSALES The intertransversales—named from their position between the transverse processes—are small vertical bands, also found chiefly in the cervical and lumbar regions. In the neck (fig. 316) they are double, the anterior band connecting the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra?, and the posterior the posterior tubercles. In the lumbar region they are also double, an outer set connecting the adjacent surfaces of the ends of the transverse processes, and an inner connecting the accessory tubercle of one vertebra to the mammillary tubercle of the next vertebra below. A few similar pairs of muscles may also be found in the lower part of the thoracic region. Structure.—Fleshy, with parallel fibres.