28 THE SKELETON the skull. In front of the middle it is encroached upon by the condyles. It is bounded posteriorly by the supra-occipital, anteriorly by the basi-occipital, and laterally by the ex-oceipitals. Sometimes a facet exists at the anterior margin for articulation with the odontoid process. This is the tertiary occipital condyle. The margin of the foramen gives attachment behind the condyles to the posterior occipito- atlantal ligament. The condyles are two oval processes of bone, with smooth articular surfaces, covered in the recent state with cartilage. They are received into the superior articular cups of the atlas. The condyles converge anteriorly but diverge posteriorly. Their margins give attachment to capsular ligaments, and a prominent tubercle in the middle of the median border of each condyle is for the check ligament. A for- amen, the anterior condyloid, traverses the upper part of each condyle; it trans- mits the hypoglossal nerve, and a twig of the ascending pharyngeal artery with its venae comites; frequently this foramen is divided by a delicate spicule of bone. Posterior to each condyle is a depression, the posterior condyloid fossa, which receives Fig. 34.—The Occipital at Birth. (Anterior view.) the hinder edge of the articular cavity of the atlas when the head is extended; the floor of this depression is occasionally perforated by the posterior condyloid foramen, which transmits a vein from the lateral sinus. Articulations.—The occipital bone is connected by suture with the two parie- tals, the two temporals, and the spbenoid; by means of the condyles it articulates with the atlas; and under the exceptional condition of a tertiary occipital condyle, with the odontoid process of the axis. Muscles.—Attached to the occipital bone:— Occipito-frontalis. Eectus capitis anticus major. Trapezius. Rectus capitis anticus minor. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Rectus capitis posticus major. Complexus. Rectus capitis posticus minor. Splenius capitis. Rectus capitis lateralis. Superior oblique. Azygos pharyngei (when present).