1038 THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS The mucous membrane of the spongy urethra contains a large quantity of elastic tissue and is lined by a laminated epithelium, the superficial cells of which are prismatic in form, while the deeper layers cover in rows of more or less longitudi- nally disposed papilla?. At its distal extremity the integumental covering of the glans is inflected for about a quarter of an inch (6 mm.), the line of demarcation between the cutaneous and mucous structures being well defined. The external meatus is represented by a vertical slit about a quarter of an inch (0 mm.) in length, and is the least dilatable part of the canal; hence in urethral operations it is sometimes necessary to enlarge it by incision. An examination of the mucous surface will show a number of orifices arranged in three longitudinal rows extending along the dorsal wall, and leading to short tubular depressions which run in a backward direction (towards the bladder) and are called the lacunse of Morgagni. One of these, termed the lacuna magna or sinus of Cruerin, situated in the mesial line about an inch from the external meatus, is of large size, and may arrest the point of an instrument during catheterism. It is bounded by a little fold of mucous membrane, the valvule of Guerin, and may attain a depth of one-third of an inch (8 mm.). In addition to these are many simple and compound mucous glands, such as appear in the prostatic portion of the canal; and the ducts of Cowper's glands open into the anterior portion of the bulb on the ventral wall. The muscular coat consists chiefly of longitudinal fibres continuous with those of the bladder, but a circular layer prolonged from the sphincteric fibres of the membranous urethra extends as an outer layer over the bulbous portion of the canal gradually disappearing beyond this point. As already mentioned, the collapsed urethra is represented by a fissure. This in the glans penis is vertical in direction. A short horizontal branch is superadded at the upper end of the fossa navicularis, giving the fissure the aspect of an in- verted T. Above this point the horizontal limb progressively elongates, while the vertical limb shortens until the former alone is left, and the rest of the spongy urethra is represented by a transverse fissure. In the membranous segment the fissure is usually stellate, while in the prostatic region the presence of the collicu- lus gives it the U-like form already described. This progressive change of shape involves a kind of rifling of the tube, and probably accounts for the spiral form of the normal stream of urine. The muscular tissue of the urethra appears to be capable of a peculiar vermicu- lar contraction by which a catheter left within the urethra is gradually expelled, and an example is known in which an elastic instrument insecurely tied in situ found its way, in the reverse direction, into the bladder, and formed the nucleus of a calculus. The female urethra is described on page 1041. THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION The female genitals may be divided into (1) an external part, the vulva, representative of structures found in a more highly developed condition in the male; (2) a vaginal passage, the cavity of which appears as a fissure in its ordinary condition, but is capable of very great dilatation; and (3) an internal apparatus comprising the organs of ovulation (ovaries) with their ducts, and a musculo- mucous sac (uterus) in which the ovum undergoes development, and by which the foetus is ultimately expelled. The vagina and internal organs are intra-pelvic. The VULVA consists of a pair of integumentary folds, the labia majora; two smaller folds, the labia minora ; a small penile appendage, the clitoris ; and a short passage, the vestibule, leading to the vaginal orifice. The vestibule is