235 THE RADIO-CARPAL pollicis to the back of the semilunar and cuneiform bones; and (iii) from the groove for the radial extensors to the back of the scaphoid and semilunar. It is in relation with, and strengthened by, the extensor tendons which pass over it. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 232) is fan-shaped, with its apex above, at the styloid process of the ulna, to which it is attached on all sides, blending with the apex of the fibro-cartilage. Some of the fibres pass forwards and outwards to the base of the pisiform bone and to the inner part of the upper border of the anterior annular ligament, where it is attached to the pisiform bone; they form a thick, rounded fasciculus on the front of the wrist, Other fibres descend verti- cally to the inner side of the cuneiform bone, and others again outwards to the dorsal surface of the cuneiform. The tendon of the extensor carpi utnafis is pos- terior to, and passes over, part of the fibres of the ligament. The external lateral ligament (fig. 231) consists of fibres which radiate from the fore part and tip of the styloid process of the radius. Some pass downwards and inwards, in front, to the scaphoid and adjacent edge of the magnum; some downwards, a little forwards and inwards, to the tubercle of the scaphoid and riclge of the trapezium; and others downwards and outwards to the rough dorsal surface of the scaphoid. The fibres of this ligament are not so long and strong, nor do they radiate so much as those of the internal lateral ligament, It is in relation with the radial artery, and the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis, the artery separating the tendons from the ligament. The synovial membrane is extensive, but does not usually communicate with the synovial membrane of the inferior radio-ulnar joint, being shut out by the triangular cartilage. It is also excluded, in almost every instance, from that of the carpal joints by the interosseous ligaments between the first row of carpal bones. The styloid process of the radius is cartilage-covered internally, and forms part of the articular cavity, while that of the ulna does not. The arterial supply is derived from the anterior and posterior carpal arches, the posterior division of the anterior interosseous, from twigs direct from the radial and ulnar arteries, and from recurrent branches from the first dorsal interosseous. The nerve-supply is derived from the ulnar and median in front, and the pos- terior interosseous behind. Movements.—The wrist is a condyloid joint, the carpus forming the condyle. It allows of movements upon a transverse axis, i.e. flexion and extension; and