INTERIOR OF THE SKULL 81 maxillary, and malo-maxillary. The small sutures visible in the orbit have been already mentioned in describing that cavity. The following points are seen in an anterior view of the cranium:— The glabella, a smooth space between the converging superciliary ridges. The ophryon is the most anterior point of the metopic suture. Fig. 89.—The Posterior Nares. pterygopalatine canals SPINE OF PALATE OR POSTERIOR NASAL SPINE The nasion is the central point of the transverse suture. The subnasal point is the middle of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture at the base of the nasal spine. The alveolar point is the centre of the anterior margin of the upper alveolar arch. THE INTERIOR OF THE SKULL In order to study the interior of the skull it is necessary to make sections in three directions,—sagittal, coronal, and horizontal. This enables the student to examine the various points with facility, and displays the great proportion the brain cavity bears to the rest of the skull. The sagittal section should be made slightly to one side of the median line in order to preserve the nasal septum. The black line (fig. 90) drawn from the basion (anterior margin of the foramen mag- num) to the gonion (the anterior extremity of the sphenoid) represents the basi- cranial axis ; whilst the line drawn from the gonion to the subnasal point lies in the basi-facial axis. These two axes form an angle termed the cranio-facial, which is useful in making comparative measurements of crania. A line prolonged vertically upwards from the basion will strike the bregma. This is the basi- bregmatic axis, and gives the greatest height of the cranial cavity. A line drawn from the ophryon to the occipital point indicates the greatest length of the cranium. Near its middle, the cranial cavity is encroached upon by the petrosal; the walls are channelled vertically by narrow grooves for the middle and small meningeal arteries, and towards the base and at the vertex broader furrows are found for the venous sinuses. The coronal section is most instructive when made in the basi-bregmatic axis. The section will pass through the petrosal in such a way as to traverse the two external auditory passages and expose the tympanum and vestibule, and will also partially traverse the internal auditory meatuses. Such a section will divide the parietal bones slightly posterior to the parietal eminences, and a line drawn transversely across the section at the mid-point will give the greatest transverse 6