1107 THE NECK The following uses and important points with regard to the anatomy of the deep cervical fascia should be noted: (A) It forms certain definitely enclosed spaces in which pus or growths may form, and by the walls of which these morbid structures may be tied down and thus rendered difficult of diagnosis, while their increasing pressure may embarrass the air-passages, etc. Thus: (1) In the first space, which lies between No. 1 and the skin, the structures met with, the platysma and superficial branches of the cervical plexus, are unimportant. Any abscess here is prone to extend, but superficially. (2) In the second space, between the superficial and sterno-clavicular layers, lies a narrow space containing loose cellular tissue and lymphatic glands. Suppuration here is very common, but usually comes forwards. (3) This is the largest and most important of all. It is bounded in front by the sterno-clavicular, and behind by the prevertebral layer. Its contents are—larynx, trachea, oesophagus, thyroid, carotid sheath, glands; and below, brachial plexus, subclavian artery, and abundant loose cellular tissue for Fig. 680.—Section of Neck thkough the Sixth Cervical Vertebea. (One-half. (Braune.) RECURREXT LARYNGEAL NERVE PHARYNX | LARYNX Longua colli muscle , Superior thyroid artery ', DESCENDENS XON1 VAGUS PHREXIC XERVE Scalenus anticus Sterno-cleido-mastoid BRACHIAL PLEXUS Scalenus medius External jugular vein SPIXAL ACCESSORY NER VE Thyro-arytenoid muscle CRICOID CARTILAGE (and omo-hyoid muscles I Sterno-hyoid (just posterior are seen the thyro- / Crico-arytenoideus lateralis ' / Muscular process of the thyroid cartilage THYROID GLAND Splenius PART OF ARTICULAR SURFACE OF SEVENTH CERVICAL VERTEBRA Semi-spinalis and multindxis SIXTH CERVICAL VERTEBRA Common carotid artery Internal jugular vein BRACHIAL PLEXUS Scalenus medius External jugular vein Scalenus posticus SPINAL ACCESSORY NER VE Levator anguli scapulae Cervicalis ascendenB Transversalis cervicis and trachelo- Profunda cervicis vessels (mastoid Trapezius Biventer cervicis and complexus the movements of the neck. Suppuration is somewhat rarer here; but either pus or growths, if confined in this space, may have baneful effects, from pressure, or from their tendency to travel behind the sternum. (4) This space, between the prevertebral layer in front and muscles behind, is very limited. Retropharyngeal abscess forms here, and the dyspnoea it causes is thus explained. (B) The, deep cervical fascia gives sheaths or canals to certain veins which perforate it, e.g. the external jugular. These are thus kept patent, and a ready passage of blood ensured from the head and neck. The carotid sheath is another and different instance. (C) It helps to resist atmospheric pressure. (D) Mr. Hilton's suggestion as to its action on the pericardium has already been mentioned. Before leaving this region, the arrangement of the lymphatic glands of the head and neck must be attended to. They are extremely numerous, and are chiefly arranged in the following sets: (1) Occipital, or suboccipital, along the attachment of the occipitalis. (2) The posterior auricular, over the insertion of the sterno-mastoid. (3) The parotid, just in front of the ear, partly on