998 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION and that it is possible for one organ to be clothed with peritoneum at the expense of another. To complete the account of the general relation of the peritoneum to the intes- tine, the following changes remain to be noticed:— The meso-colon.—The descending colon is displaced by the growth of the rest of the bowel to the left side, and comes to occupy the position which it holds in the fully developed body. The primitive meso-colon is displaced also to the left, and survives as the descending meso-colon, the sigmoid meso-colon, and the meso-rectum (fig. 599). It may be so curtailed that no distinct fold that can be called a descending meso-colon is left, and the posterior part of the bowel is in such a case found to be more or less uncovered by the peritoneum. The meso-rectum is a genuine and but little disturbed relic of the simple median vertical fold of the primitive body. Fig. 598.—Diagram to show the Relation of the Peritoneum to the Duodenum. The duodenum is more or less bared of peritoneum, especially so far as its third part is concerned. The ascending colon has, like the descending colon, been deprived of a con- siderable amount of its peritoneum. This membrane originally belonged to the common mesentery, but so much of it may have been abstracted from the bowel that this part of the colon may be free from peritoneum behind, or may be con- nected to the posterior parietes by a short meso-colon. The parietal attachments (so-called) of this ascending meso-colon are entirely acquired, and have no relation whatever to the primary attachment of the median fold—the primitive meso-colon —to the posterior wall of the abdomen (fig. 599). The mesentery.—The mesentery proper—the fold belonging to the small intestines—in like manner and by a similar process acquires a new connection with the posterior parietes. In using the term ' new connection,' it must be understood that the sac of the peritoneum remains quite unbroken, and that the numerous duplicatures of the membrane have simply been so readjusted and displaced that it has in more points than one a reflexion from the posterior wall of the abdomen.