881 THE EAR the helicotrema. The osseous spiral canal is nearly an inch and a half (about 3'5 cm.) in length. The lamina spiralis is thin and dense in structure at its edge, but it is spongy and channelled with canals for nerves and blood-vessels where it starts shelf-like from the modiolus. The spiral canal of the modiolus coils round the pillar as it tunnels the base of the spiral lamina. In the recent state, membranous structures complete the bony partition into two separate chambers, or scalae: the scala vestibuli and the scala tympani, which communicate through the helicotrema at the summit of the cochlea. The scala vestibuli commences from the cavity of the cochlea; in its first turn it is somewhat narrower tban the scala tympani. The scala tympani commences at the fenestra rotunda, which is filled with the secondary membrane of Scarpa, and forms a kind of window which shuts it off from the cavity of the tympanum. Near its commencement is the small orifice of the aqueductus cochleae, which lodges a minute vein, and forms a communication with the subarachnoid space. The central axis, or modiolus, extends from the base to the apex of the cochlea. It starts with a broad base where it corresponds with the first turn of the cochlea, and it is pierced by minute canals to receive the filaments of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve. In the second coil the axis is*diminished by more than half, and it terminates in the remaining half coil or cupula in a bony plate, the infundibulum, which expands towards the summit of the cochlea, with which it becomes continuous. The central canal of the modiolus runs through its centre. The Membranous Labyrinth, which lies within the bony labyrinth just de- scribed, receives the terminations of the auditory nerve. It is for the most part separated by the perilymph from the membrane which lines the bony chambers, and it contains within its own cavity the fluid endolymph. In the vestibule and semicircular canals it bears a near resemblance (though it is much smaller) to the enclosing structures, but in the cochlea it not only divides its canal into the two scala?, but forms between them a third space, the canal of the cochlea. Within the vestibule the membranous labyrinth consists of two sacs, which do not directly communicate: the utricle, connected with the semicircular canals; and the saccule, with the cochlea, The Utricle is the larger. It is oblong, laterally compressed; it occupies the upper and back part of the cavity, and is in contact with the wall of the fovea hemielliptica. Filaments of the auditory nerve are distributed to the Avail of the sac opposite the crista vestibuli, passing through the bony foramina already de- scribed. Its wall is here thicker than elsewhere, and calcareous particles (otoliths) are attached to its inner surface. Behind, the cavity communicates by five orifices with the semicircular canals. The Saccule, which is slightly flattened, occupies the front and lower part of the cavity at the opening of the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, From the hollow of the fovea hemispherica it receives numerous nerve filaments, and presents a thick- ened area with attached otoliths. Fig. 503.—Section of the Osseous Cochlea. (Enlarged.) Modiolus ' Central canal of the modiolus Termination of internal auditory meatus 56