THE MUSCLES 372 part of the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur; also by a small slip from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. Insertion.—(1) The back of the tibia from below the attachment of the pos- terior ligament of the knee-joint to the oblique line; (2) the fascia derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, which covers the posterior surface of the muscle. Structure.—Arising by a somewhat flattened cylindrical tendon which passes at first backwards and slightly downwards within the knee-joint, grooving the posterior border of the external semilunar cartilage; it then escapes from the capsule of the knee-joint, receiving a small slip from the posterior ligament, and imme- diately expands into a fan-shaped muscle which forms a thick sheet, covering the upper fourth of the back of the tibia, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the pouch formed by the bone in front and the aponeurosis derived from the semi-membra- nosus behind. The tendon of origin is surrounded by synovial membrane, which is reflected upon it about half an inch (1*2 cm.) beyond the opening, through which it emerges from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. Nerve-supply.—From the sacral plexus by the internal popliteal division of the great sciatic nerve, which sends a special branch round the lower border of the muscle to distribute itself to the lower part of its deep or anterior surface. Action.—To flex the knee, which it will do but feebly on account of the obliquity of its direction and its proximity to the axis of the joint. When the knee is flexed it will act as an internal rotator of the leg. In this position the tendon of origin lies wholly in the groove for its reception upon the outer surface of the external condyle. It is possible that the attachment of the tendon of origin to the posterior ligament of the knee may enable the muscle when it contracts to draw backwards the ligament, and so prevent the synovial membrane upon the anterior aspect of the ligament from being nipped between the articular surfaces. Relations.—Behind, the aponeurosis of the semi-membranosus, the gastroc- nemius, plantaris, and the popliteal vessels, the internal popliteal nerve, and the lymphatic glands. In front, the knee-joint. Superficial to the tendon of origin is the external lateral ligament of the knee. Variations.—A second head of origin has been seen from a sesamoid bone in the outer tendon of the gastrocnemius. 2. SOLEUS The soleus—named from solea, the Latin for a sole-fish, because of the resem- blance of the muscle to this flat fish—is a thick, fusiform sheet which forms the lowest head of the triceps surae muscle. Origin.—(1) The oblique line of the tibia and the inner border of its posterior surface, from the lower end of the oblique line to a little below the middle of the leg; (2) the back of the head and the upper third of the outer border of the posterior or flexor surface of the fibula and the adjacent external intermuscular septum; (3) a tendinous arch which stretches across the interval between the upper part of the back of the tibia and fibula. Insertion.—By a strong aponeurosis which blends with the anterior surface of the tendon of the gastrocnemius, and forms the tendo Achillis. Structure.—The muscle arises partly by fleshy fibres and partly by a strong aponeurosis, which lies in front of the fleshy fibres, and is especially noticeable in the neighbourhood of its tibial attachment. From the tibia and fibula the fibres pass in a bipenniform arrangement downwards and towards the middle line, and after a very short course, not exceeding two inches (5 cm.) in length, they blend with the tendon of insertion which begins near the upper part of the origin of the muscles, and in cross-sections of the muscle resembles in shape the letter T; one _part of it forming a broad aponeurosis upon the posterior surface of the muscle, the other part a strong tendinous septum which passes forwards from the middle of the broad aponeurosis above mentioned, so as to separate the fleshy fibres into two portions. About the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the leg, the tendon of insertion joins by its posterior aspect with that of the gastrocnemius muscle, but