43 THE TYMPANUM irregular process, and the inner aspect presents, in the lower half of its circumference, a groove for the reception of the tympanic membrane. Up to the middle of the fifth month the periotic capsule is cartilaginous ; it then ossifies so rapidly that by the end of the sixth month its chief portion is converted into porous bone. The ossific material is deposited in four centres, or groups of centres, named according to their relation to the ear-capsule in its embryonic position. The nuclei are deposited in the following order :— 1. The opisthotic appears at the end of the fifth mouth. The osseous material is seen first on the promontory, and it quickly surrounds the fenestra rotunda from above downwards, and forms the floor of the vestibule, the lower part of the fenestra ovalis, and the internal auditory Fig. 51.—The Temporal Bone at Birth. (Outer view.) POST-GLENOID TUBERCLE GLASERIAN FISSURE TYMPANIC FISSURE meatus ; it also invests the cochlea. Subsequently a plate of bone arises from it to surround the internal carotid artery and form the floor of the tympanum. 2. The pro-otic nucleus is deposited behind the internal auditory meatus near the inner limb of the superior semicircular canal. It covers in a part of the cochlea, the vestibule, and the internal auditory meatus, completes the fenestra ovalis, and invests the superior semicircular canal. 3. The pterotic nucleus ossifies the tegmen tympani and covers in the external semicircular canal; the ossific matter is first deposited over the outer limb of this canal. 4. The epiotic is the last to appear, and is first seen at the most posterior part of the posterior semicircular canal; it is often double. This centre gives rise to the mastoid process. At birth the bone is of loose and open texture, resembling biscuit or unglazed porcelain, thus offering a striking contrast to the dense and ivory-like petrosal of the adult. It also differs from Fig. 52.—Temporal Bone at Birth. (Inner view.) '',.8 the adult bone in several other particulars. The floccular fossa is widely open and conspicuous. Voltolini has poiuted out that a small canal leads from the floor of the floccular fossa and opens posteriorly on the mastoid surface of the bone ; it may open in the mastoid antrum. The hiatus Fallopii is unclosed, and the tympanic recess is filled with gelatinous connective tissue. The mastoid process is not developed, and the jugular fossa is a shallow depression. After birth the parts grow rapidly. The tympanum becomes permeated with air ; the various elements fuse ; and the tympanic annulus grows rapidly and forms the tympanic plate. Growth in the tympanic bone takes place most rapidly from the tubercles at its upper extremities, and in consequence of the slow growth of the lower segment a deep notch is formed ; gradually the tubercles coalesce, leaving a foramen in the anterior part of the bony meatus which persists until puberty, and even in the adult. In most skulls a cleft capable of receiving the nail remains be- tween the tympanic element and the mastoid process ; this is the auricular fissure. The anterior portion of the tympanic plate forms with the inferior border of the squamosal a cleft known as