OPHTHALMIC DIVISION OF. THE FIFTH NERVE 751 foramen rotundum. The third division passes through the foramen ovale in front of the motor root of the fifth nerve, with which it unites, as already described, to form the mandibular (inferior maxillary) division. The Gasserian ganglion receives communications from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and is said to furnish some minute twigs to the dura mater. First or Ophthalmic Division op the Fifth Nerve The ophthalmic is the smallest of the three divisions of the fifth, and is entirely sensory in function. It passes forwards and inwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, where it is placed below and external to the fourth nerve. Behind the sphenoidal fissure it divides into three branches. These branches pass through the sphenoidal fissure, piercing the fibrous derivative of the dura mater which closes it. Two of them, the frontal and the lachrymal, enter the orbit above the external rectus muscle. The remaining branch, the nasal, passes between the two heads of that muscle. In its course in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus the ophthalmic division receives communications from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and gives off a tentorial branch (nervus recurrens rami primi, Luschka) which runs back- wards for a short distance within the sheath of the fourth nerve, and is distributed Fig. 445.—Nerves of the Orbit, from the Outer Side. (From Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille.) LENTICULAR GANGLION SHORT ROOT OF SYMPA TIIETIC ROOT OF LENTICULAR LENTICULAR GANGLION GANGLION between the layers of the tentorium cerebelli. It also gives communicating branches to the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. The orbital muscles receive their sensory supply through these communications. (1) The frontal nerve is the largest branch of the ophthalmic division. It passes forwards and upwards on the inner side of the third nerve, and enters the orbit immediately external to, and a little below, the fourth nerve. It passes for- wards between the periosteum of the orbit and the levator jialpebra? superioris muscle, and, a little behind the middle of the orbit, divides into two branches, termed the supraorbital and supratrochlear. (2) The supraorbital nerve leaves the orbit by passing through the supraorbital notch or foramen, where it gives twigs to the upper eyelid, and turns upwards on the frontal bone, accompanied by the supraorbital artery. It divides into two branches, an external and an internal. Both these branches divide into several twigs, which pass very obliquely through the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle, and supply the integument of the forehead and fore part of the scalp. The external branch, which is considerably larger than the internal, may be traced backwards nearly as far as the lambdoidal suture. (3) The supratrochlear nerve is directed forwards and inwards above the pulley of the superior oblique muscle. It communicates with the infratrochlear