THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 752 branch of the nasal nerve and turns upwards on the forehead, accompanied by the frontal artery. It is much smaller than the supraorbital nerve, and it is distributed to a small area of integument around the glabella. It gives twigs to the inner part of the upper eyelid. (4) The lachrymal nerve is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic division. It passes through the sphenoidal fissure external to and slightly below the frontal nerve, and is directed forwards and outwards along the upper border of the external rectus muscle to the lachrymal gland. Immediately behind the lachrymal gland it communicates with the temporal branch of the orbital nerve, forming a loop convex forwards; from this loop and from the adjacent part of the trunk of the nerve a number of twigs pass into the gland substance. A small twig passes beyond the gland and is distributed to the integument and conjunctiva at the outer canthus of the eye. (5) The nasal nerve enters the orbit by passing forwards between the superior and inferior divisions of the third nerve, and takes an oblique course forwards and inwards to reach the inner wall of the orbit. In this course it passes between the optic nerve and the superior rectus muscle. It then passes between the superior oblique and the internal rectus, traverses the anterior internal orbital canal, accompanied by the anterior ethmoidal vessels, enters the anterior fossa of the skull, crosses the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone under coArer of the dura mater, and enters the nasal fossa through a slit-like aperture at the side of the crista galli (the ethmoidal fissure). It terminates within the nasal fossa by dividing into three branches: an internal, or septal; an external; and an anterior, or terminal. Branches.—The long root to the lenticular ganglion is given off at the sphenoidal fissure. It is a slender filament which passes forwards to join the upper and back part of the ganglion. The long ciliary nerves, usually two in number, arise from the nasal trunk as the latter is crossing the optic nerve. They are directed forwards along the inner side of the optic nerve, and join the lower set of short ciliary nerves after they pierce the sclerotic (page 851). The infratrochlear nerve is given off by the nasal just before the latter enters the anterior internal orbital canal. It passes forwards beneath the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and supplies the skin and conjunctiva around the inner canthus of the eye and the integument of the upper part of the nose. It also supplies the lachrymal sac and caruncle. It communicates with the supratrochlear nerve in front of (some- times behind) the pulley. The internal or septal branch of the nasal nerve runs downwards and for- wards on the upper and front part of the nasal septum. The external branch gives two or three twigs to the anterior extremities of the superior and middle turbinated bones, and to the mucous membrane of the outer wall of the nose. The terminal or anterior branch runs downwards in a groove on the inner surface of the nasal bone. It pierces the wall of the nose between the nasal bone and the lateral cartilage, and supplies the integument of the lower part of the dorsum of the nose as far as the tip of that organ. Lenticular Ganglion The lenticular, ciliary, or ophthalmic ganglion is a small reddish-grey body about the size of a pin's head. It is quadrilateral in outline, and its outer anJ inner surfaces are slightly convex. It is placed between the optic nerve and the external rectus muscle, about a quarter of an inch in front of the sphenoidal fissure. Following the general rule applying to the sporadic ganglia which are connected with the fifth nerve, it is provided with three roots, a motor, a sensory, and a sympathetic. The motor or short root is derived from the branch of the oculo- motor to the inferior oblique muscle; it enters the posterior inferior angle of the ganglion. The sensory or long root is a branch of the nasal nerve; it passes along the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the upper and back part of the ganglion. The sympathetic root is derived from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic; it may enter the back part of the ganglion in the form of fine twigs,