1082 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY In front, the circumference of the bony orbit can be traced in its whole extent. The supraorbital notch lies at the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the supraorbital arch. When this notch is a complete foramen, its detection is much less easy. Above the supraorbital arch is the supraciliary ridge, and higher still the frontal eminence. From the supraorbital notch, a line drawn downwards and slightly outwards, so as to run between the two bicuspid teeth in each jaw, passes over the infraorbital and mental foramina (Holden). The infraorbital foramen lies about a quarter of an inch below the margin of the orbit. The mental foramen in the adult is placed midway between the upper and lower margins of the jaw, and ' is a little over a quarter of an inch below the cul-de-sac of mucous mem- brane between the lower lip and the jaw ' ( Treves). THE bony SINUSES.—The frontal.—The development of these by the twen- tieth or twenty-fifth year may render a fracture here much less grave in the adult than would otherwise be the case, the inner table, if now separated from the outer, protecting the brain. Mr. Hilton showed that the absence of any external prom- inence here does not necessarily imply the absence of a sinus, as this may be formed Fig. 660.—Temporal Bone, showing Suphameatal Triangle. (Barr.) by retrocession of the internal table. In old people these sinuses may enlarge by the inner table following the shrinking brain. Again, a very prominent bump here does not necessarily point to the existence of a sinus at all, being due merely to a heaping up of bone. When well developed, the frontal sinuses may reach two inches upwards and one and a half inches outwards, occupying the greater part of the vertical portion of the frontal bone. When very small, they scarcely extend above the nasal process. Even when present, they are often asymmetrical. The sinuses are separated by a septum. Each sinus narrows downwards into the infundibulum. This ' is deeply placed behind the nasal process of the maxilla and near the inner wall of the orbit. Its termination in the middle meatus is about on a level with the palpebral fissure' (Thane and Godlee). The communication of these sinuses with the nose accounts for the frontal headache in ozoena, and the fact that a patient with a compound fracture opening up the sinuses can blow out a flame held close by. The mastoid sinuses are arranged in two groups, of the utmost importance in