INTERNAL ILIA C—ILIO-L UMBA R 567 life it does not descend into the pelvis, but courses above the pelvic brim by the side of the allantois, and later by the side of the bladder and urachus, to the umbilicus, under the name of the hypogastric artery. At the umbilicus it is joined by the umbilical vein, and by the hypogastric artery of the opposite side. The two arteries, now known as the umbilical, coil spirally round the vein on their way to the placenta, forming the umbilical cord (fig. 368). After birth the hypogastric artery ceases to be pervious beyond the superior vesical branch, and is converted into a fibrous cord, the obliterated hypogastric artery. Variations.—(A) The internal iliac may be longer or shorter than usual. It is seldom less than an inch in length, but has been met with as short as half an inch, and as long as three inches. The variation in length generally depends upon the length of the common iliac ; when this bifurcates higher than usual, the internal iliac is then longer, and may lie at first above the brim of the pelvis; but the length may also depend upon the artery itself dividing higher or lower than usual into its branches. This division may occur anywhere between the brim of the pelvis and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. (B) Its branches may be given off without the artery dividing into an anterior and a posterior division, or one or more branches may arise above the division. The branches of the posterior division of the internal iliac are:—(1) The ilio-lumbar; (2) the lateral sacral; and (3) the gluteal. The branches of the anterior division are:—(1) The hypogastric; (2) the superior, middle, and inferior vesical; (3) the middle haemorrhoiclal; (4) the uterine; (5) the vaginal; (6) the obturator; (7) the sciatic; and (8) the internal pudic. Branches op the Posterior Division of the Internal Iliac Artery 1. THE ILIO-LUMBAR ARTERY The ilio-lumbar artery—a short vessel coming off from the posterior part of the internal iliac artery—runs upwards and outwards beneath the common iliac artery, first between the lumbo-sacral cord and obturator nerve, and then between the psoas muscle and the vertebral column. On reaching the brim of the pelvis it divides into two branches, an iliac and a lumbar. The iliac branch passes out- wards beneath the psoas and anterior crural nerve and, perforating the iliacus, ramifies in the iliac fossa between that muscle and the bone. It supplies a nutrient artery to the bone, and then breaks up into several branches which radiate from the parent trunk, upwards towards the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, outwards towards the crest of the ilium, downwards towards the anterior superior spine, and inwards towards the pelvic cavity. The first anastomoses with the last lumbar; the second with the external circumflex and gluteal; the third with the deep circumflex iliac from the external iliac; the fourth with the iliac branch of the obturator. The lumbar branch ascends beneath the psoas, and, supplying that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, anastomoses with the last lumbar artery. It sends a branch into the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, which anastomoses with the other spinal arteries. The ilio-lumbar artery is serially homologous with the lumbar arteries. Hence the similarity in its course and distribution. 2. THE LATERAL SACRAL ARTERIES The lateral sacral arteries, usually two in number, arise from the posterior division of the internal iliac. The superior artery, when two are present, runs downwards and inwards to the first anterior sacral foramen, through which it passes; and, after supplying the spinal membranes and anastomosing with the other spinal arteries, passes through the first posterior sacral foramen, and is distributed to the skin over the back of the sacrum, there anastomosing with branches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries. The inferior lateral sacral descends on the side of