242 THE ARTICULATIONS slight, as there is no long flexor attached to either; but, owing to the close connec- tion of the bases of the metacarpal bones, the radial and ulnar flexors and ex- tensors of the carpus act on all by their pull on the particular bone into which they are inserted. Abduction, or movement toward the radial side, is prevented by the impaction of the second bone against the trapezium; a little adduction is permitted, and is favoured by the slope given to the unciform and fifth metacarpal bones. There is also a slight gliding between the fourth and fifth bones, when the concavity they present towards the palm is deepened to form the ' cup of Diogenes.' (b) The Carpo-metacarpal Joint op the Thumb Class.—Diartlirosis. Subdivision.—Saddle-si taped Arthrodia. The bones entering into this joint are the base of the first metacarpal, and the trapezium. The first metacarpal bone diverges from the other four, contrasting very strongly with the position of the great toe. It is due to this divergence that the thumb is able to be opposed to each and all the fingers. The ligament which unites the bones is the Capsular. The capsular ligament (figs. 231 and 232) consists of fibres which pass from the margin of the articular facet on the trapezium, to the margin of the articular facet at the base of the first metacarpal bone. The fibres are stronger on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect. They are not tense enough to hold the bones in close contact, so that while they restrict they do not prevent motion in any direction. The internal fibres are stronger than the external. The synovial membrane is lax, and distinct from the other synovial mem- branes of the carpus. The arteries of the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb are derived from the trunk of the radial, the arteria princeps pollicis, and the dorsales pollicis. The nerves are supplied by the branches of the median to the thumb. The movements of this joint are regulated by the shape of the articular sur- faces, rather than by the ligaments, and consist of flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, and circumduction, but not rotation. In flexion and extension the metacarpal bone slides to and fro upon the trapezium; in abduction and adduction it slides from side to side or, more correctly, revolves upon the antero-posterior axis of the joint. The power of opposing the thumb to any of the fingers is due to the forward and inward obliquity of its flexion movement, which is by far its most extensive motion. Abduction is very free, while adduction is limited on account of the proximity of the second metacarpal bone. The movement of the trapezium upon the rest of the carpus somewhat increases the range of all the movements of the thumb. 9. THE INTERMETACARPAL ARTICULATIONS Class.—Diartlirosis. Subdivision.—A rthrodia. The metacarpal of the thumb is not connected with any other metacarpal bone. The second, third, fourth, and fifth metacarpal bones are in actual contact at their bases, and are held firmly together by the following ligaments:— Dorsal. Palmar. Interosseous ligaments. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 233) are layers of variable thickness of strong, short fibres, which pass transversely from bone to bone, filling up the irregularities on the dorsal surfaces. The palmar ligaments are transverse layers of ligamentous tissue passing from