892 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE It divides in its passage downwards, one slip being inserted into the cartilage of the wing, the other extending to the upper lip to blend with its muscular fibres. The two foregoing muscles may be regarded as extraordinary or reserve muscles of dilatation. The dilator naris consists of two small muscular slips, requiring a lens for their proper demonstration; in some cases they are absent. The dilator naris anterior is a small and indistinct muscle. It is placed between the skin and cartilage of the ala. The dilator naris posterior arises from the edge of the nasal notch of the maxilla and the sesamoid cartilages, to be inserted into the margin of the nostril. In paralysis of the facial nerve, a deep inspiration through the nostril produces complete collapse of its cartilaginous wall, thus showing the importance of the dilator muscles in keeping patent the nasal orifices. The constrictors, or compressors.—The compressor naris arises from the Fig. 515.—Section showing Bony and Cartilaginous Septum. The dotted lines indicate the course of the anterior palatine canal. NASAL BONE Frontal sinus papilla \ extremity ol sien- SEPTAL CARTILAGE 8on's canal SOFT PALATE maxilla near the incisive fossa, its fibres mixing with those of the levator anguli oris. It expands as it passes inwards, to end in a thin aponeurosis, which joins with its fellow as well as with the pyramidalis, and it also blends with the sub- cutaneous tissue over the bridge of the nose. The depressor alse nasi arises from the incisor fossa; its fibres pass upwards to the septum and posterior part of the wing. The compressor narium minor consists of a few indistinct fibres, occasionally found between the alar cartilage and skin over the tip of the nose. These muscles are all supplied by the facial nerve. The skin covering the nose is for the most part thin and freely movable upon the subjacent parts, but at the tip and over the cartilages it is much thicker and more adherent and furnished with numerous sebaceous glands. The mucous membrane becomes continuous with the skin at the nasal orifices, and posteriorly with the membrane which lines the nasal fossae.