EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 845 is of a light brownish colour, mainly from the presence of a delicate pigmented layer, the mem- brana suprachoroidea, which adheres partly to it, partly to the choroid, giving to their adjacent surfaces a flocculent appearance when examined under water. 2. Anterior hemisphere viewed from behind.—The round opening of the pupil is visible in the middle, with the large clear crystalline lens lying behind it. The retina proper extends forwards a little way from our line of section, and then ends abruptly in a wavy line called the era serrata, beyond which it is only represented by a very thin membrane (pars ciliaris retinae). Outside the periphery of the lens are a number of ciliary processes arranged closely together in a circle concentric with the pupil, and each radially elongated ; posteriorly they are continuous with numerous fine folds, also radial, which soon get very indistinct as they pass backwards, but reach almost to the ora serrata (plicae ciliares). Between the front of the ciliary processes and the edge of the pupil lies the iris. On removal of the retina the inner surface of all this region is seen to be darkly pigmented, but especially dark in front of the position of the ora serrata. Vitreous probably still adheres to the back of the lens, and by pulling upon it the lens can be removed along with its capsule and suspensory ligament; some pigment will now be found adhering to the front of the vitreous, torn from the ciliary processes, which are consequently now lighter in colour than before. The lens-capsule is transparent, and has a smooth glistening outer surface ; through it a greyish star-shaped figure may be observed on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the lens. The suspensory ligament is a transparent membrane attached to the capsule of the lens about its equator, and is best seen by floating the lens in water in a glass vessel placed on a dark ground. On opening the capsule we expose the lens itself, which is superficially soft and glutinous to the touch, but becomes firmer as we rub off its outer layers and approach its centre. Carefully tear the choroid and iris from the sclerotic : a firm adhesion exists just behind the corneal periphery. Their outer surface thus exposed is found to be also rather darkly pigmented (as far forward as the base of the iris at least), but it shows a white ring corre- sponding to the adhesion just mentioned, and a pale area behind this ring indicates the position of the ciliary muscle. On this surface numerous white nerve-cords are visible running forwards. Fig. 475.—Equatorial Section of Eyeball : Anterior Segment viewed from BEHIND. (After Merkel.) Observe that the iris, the ciliary processes, etc., and the choroid are all different.parts of the same ocular tunic—mere local modifications of it. Similarly the sclerotic and cornea are seen to blend together to form one outer coat. An eyeball should now be placed for half an hour in a freezing mixture of crashed ice and salt. It will thus become quite hard, and should at once be divided into two parts by cutting it antero-posteriorly through the centre of the cornea and the optic nerve. We thus gain another view of the relations of parts, the position of the lens between the aqueous and vitreous chambers, etc. On removing the lens, vitreous, and retina, and brushing off its pigment, the light mark- ings corresponding to the choroidal veins (venae vorticosae) should be noted, and their distri- bution studied. Usually four vortices or fountain-like markings are found in the whole choroid, their points of junction situated at approximately equal distances from one another at about the line where the posterior and middle thirds of the globe meet. These sections should be kept for reference while following the further description of the ocular tunics. 1. The outer, fibrous coat of the eye is formed by the sclerotic and cornea, which pass into one another at the scleral sulcus. It consists throughout mainly of fine connective-tissue fibres, arranged in interlacing bundles, with small lymph- spaces at intervals between them. The naked-eye appearance of the two divisions of this fibrous coat is, however, quite different, the cornea being transparent, while the sclerotic is white and opaque. The sclerotic encloses the posterior five-sixths or so of the eyeball, but there is a hole in it at the entrance of the optic nerve (foramen sclerse), only partially bridged across by fibres from its inner layers forming the lamina cribrosa. The fibre-bundles composing the sclerotic are arranged more irregularly than in the cornea, and run mainly in two directions, viz. from before backwards, and circularly; the circular fibres are particularly well developed just behind the sulcus. It is thickest (about 1 mm.) posteriorly, where it is strengthened chiefly PL1C/E CILIARES