THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 716 on the right side will expose the plicated hag of grey matter which constitutes the nucleus, ar opening into which, the hiluin, will be seen on the inner and upper side. It' a small portion of the fibres of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum of the same side be now raised and torr gently in a downward direction, the fibres are readily traceable into the white centre of the nucleus. A horizontal section through the superior vermis will show the smaller nuclei of the eerebel! lum (nuclei fastigii, emboliformis, and globosus). These are, however, somewhat difficult to find Lastly, a median sagittal section will expose the fourth ventricle, to obtain a good view of whicl the remainders of the cerebellar hemispheres should be drawn gently aside. In doing this canj should be taken of the inferior medullary velum. White matter of the cerebellum.—In a mesial sagittal section of the cerei bellum (fig. 427) the amount of white matter is smaller in proportion to the greji matter than in any other section. It presents a characteristically branched appear- ance which is called the arbor vitae. Two main divisions, the vertical anci horizontal branches, of the arbor vitae are described, and from these secondary ramifications arise. The vertical branch is mainly continued into the culmenj where it subdivides somewhat freely. It sends forwards usually two branches into the lobulus centralis, and a slender twig into the lingula. The main axis of the horizontal branch is prolonged into a slender white band, which enters the foliutt cacuminis. From the upper surface of the horizontal branch a stout offset is semi into the declive, and from its lower surface branches are sent into the tuber valj vulse, pyramid, and uvula. A small offset enters the nodule, and if this be traced in a lateral direction it will be found to be continued into the inferior medullar} velum. In coronal sections the disposition of the white matter in the hemispheres is) well seen. It forms a somewhat ovoid mass in each hemisphere, near the centre o| which the corpus dentatum is placed (fig. 416). The appearance is very similar ir sagittal sections through the centre of a hemisphere. It is not necessary to give a separate description of the divisions of the white matter, as these correspond to the! lobulation of the surface. The grey matter in the interior of the cerebellum consists of four pairs ol nuclei, which are everywhere separated by white matter from the grey matter of the folia. The largest of these nuclei in each hemisphere is called the corpus dentatumi The smaller, which are placed nearer the middle line, are called the nucleus emboli- formis, nucleus globosus, and nucleus fastigii. The corpus dentatum is a crumpled sheet of grey matter which presents a similar outline in coronal, sagittal, and horizontal sections. This outline is approximately an oval bounded by a wavy line. This line is broken oidy on the inner and anterior side, where the white matter of the exterior is continuous with that of the interior through an aperture called the hilum. The nucleus emboliformis is an elongated streak of grey matter, which is placed on the inner side of the corpus dentatum. It is somewhat enlarged at its' anterior extremity, hence it may be described as club-shaped. The nucleus glo-' bosus consists of several spheroidal clumps of grey matter, which are placed on the inner side of the preceding; these clumps are connected with one another, and alsc| with the nucleus emboliformis and nucleus fastigii. The nucleus fastigii varies' somewhat in its minute structure from the three nuclei above described. It is! situated immediately over the roof of the fourth ventricle, separated from thai; cavity, however, by a thin stratum of white matter. The nuclei of opposite sides: nearly touch one another in the middle line. The fibres of the cerebellum may be described under the following heads: («) Fibres derived from the cerebellar peduncles, and (6) intrinsic fibres, (a) The, fibres of the middle peduncle connect the cerebellum (1) with the nuclei of the) pons on the same side, (2) with the posterior longitudinal bundle and the fillet of the same side, and by means of these tracts with the corpora quadrigemina, and! the antero-lateral tract of the spinal cord, (3) with the pyramidal tracts of the! same and the opposite side by means of which connections are established with the corpora c|uadrigemina and the corpus striatum. The upper fibres of the pons pass into the lateral parts of the cerebellar hemispheres, and end in the greyj cortex. The middle fibres sweep downwards, forming the oblique fasciculus,! and end in the folia of the inferior surface. The lower fibres accompany thej