MANDIBULAR DIVISION OF THE FIFTH NERVE 759 maxillary gland and, after supplying the muscle with several twigs, it pierces the anterior belly of the digastric, in the substance of which it ends. (6) The alveolar branches are a series of twigs which are given off within the [ mandibular canal to supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. They communicate with one another within the bone, forming a fine plexus. From this plexus twigs are [ given off corresponding in number to the fangs of the teeth, and enter the minute | apertures at the tips of the fangs to end in the pulp. Twigs are also given to the j adjacent part of the gums (nervi gingivales). (c) The incisive branch, the smaller of the two terminal divisions, is continued I forwards and inwards in the dental canal, and supplies the canine and incisor teeth i and the corresponding region of the gums. (d) The mental branch is a nerve of considerable size, which emerges through ! the mental foramen. It communicates, near its exit, with the supramandibular i branch of the facial nerve, and then divides into three branches. The smallest branch turns downwards to supply the chin. The other two pass upwards, diverg- ing as they ascend, and divide into a number of twigs. The stoutest twigs ramify upon the mucous membrane which lines the lower lip. Other twigs are distributed ! to the integument and fascia of the lip and chin. (3) The lingual (formerly called gustatory) nerve is slightly smaller than the mandibular nerve, and is placed at first in front of and close to the inner side of the latter under cover of the external pterygoid muscle. In this situation it is joined by the chorda tympani nerve; the latter enters the lingual on its outer side, j the two nerves uniting at an acute angle. The lingual then escapes from under I cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and is connected to the mandibular nerve by a transverse communicating branch. It then passes between the ramus of the 1 mandible and the internal pterygoid muscle, and is continued forwards between the \ mucous membrane of the mouth and the mylo-hyoid muscle, and lies on the origin of this muscle close to the bone. In this part of its course it can be easily divided by an incision through the mucous membrane at the level of the second lower ] molar tooth. It then runs between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles, crosses below Wharton's duct, and finally courses forwards by the side of the tongue, so as to reach the tip of that organ. As it crosses the hyo-glossus muscle it forms a curve with the convexity directed downwards, and is connected at the | most dependent part of the curve to the submandibular (submaxillary) ganglion, to ! which it furnishes sensory roots. Immediately beyond the ganglion it communi- cates freely with the hypoglossal nerve, the communications forming several loops. Branches.—(a) Communicating branches are given to the mandibular nerve, j to the submaxillary ganglion, and to the hypoglossal nerve. These have already been described. (6) Twigs are distributed to the interval between the tongue and gums, and j ramify in the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. (c) A twig enters the sublingual gland. This twig conveys secreto-motor fibres from the chorda tympani to the gland. (rf) The lingual branches are a series of twigs which are given off by the lingual nerve in the last stage of its course as it is passing forwards towards the tip of the tongue. They pierce the musculature at the side of the tongue, and proceed to the dorsum of the middle and anterior part of that organ, where they end in the filiform and fungiform papilla?. Submandibular (Submaxillary) Ganglion The submandibular ganglion is a small reddish fusiform body which is placed between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles above Wharton's duct. It is connected with the lingual nerve by two communications, an anterior and a posterior. The posterior communication- contains the motor and sensory roots of the ganglion. The anterior communication represents a branch passing from the ganglion to the lingual nerve. The motor root is derived from the chorda tympani. The sensory root is furnished by the lingual. The ganglion also receives a sympathetic root from the plexus of the sympathetic which accompanies the facial artery. Branches.—The ganglion furnishes five or six twigs to the submandibular