984 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION quadrate lobes on the under surface of the liver. It is of pyriform outline, and when full is seen projecting beyond the anterior border of the liver, coming in contact with the abdominal wall opposite the ninth costal cartilage. It extends back as far as the transverse fissure. It measures in length, from before backwards, from two and a half to four inches (75 to 100 mm.), and an inch and a half (35 mm.) across at the widest part, and will hold about one ounce. The broad end of the sac is directed forwards, downwards, and to the right, and is called the fundus. The narrow end, or neck, which is curved first to the right, then to the left, is at the transverse fissure. The intervening part is called the body. Its upper surface is in contact with the liver, lying in the fossa of the gall bladder. It is attached to the liver by connective tissue. The lower surface is covered by peritoneum, which passes over its sides and inferior surface, though occasionally it entirely surrounds the gall bladder, forming a sort of mesentery to attach it to the liver. The lower surface comes into contact with the first part of the duodenum and hepatic flexure of the colon, and occasionally with the pyloric ends of the stomach or small intestine, which are often post mortem found stained with bile. The neck of the gall bladder opens into the cystic duct. This is a tube an inch and a half long (35 mm.) and one-twelfth of an inch wide (2.3 mm.), which unites with the hepatic duct to form the common duct; it is directed backwards Fig. 585.—Section of a Portal Canal. (Quaiu.) Lymphatics in Glisson', vein lies in Glisson's capsule and to the left as it runs in the lesser omentum, the hepatic artery being to the left and the portal vein behind. It joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle. The hepatic duct begins with a branch from each lobe right and left in the transverse fissure, and is directed downwards and to the right in the folds of the lesser omentum, the hepatic artery being to the left. It is not quite two inches long; its diameter is one-fifth of an inch (4 mm.). Uniting with the cystic duct, it forms the common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus). The common bile duct is about three inches in length. It passes down between the layers of the lesser omentum, in front of the portal vein, and to the right of the hepatic artery (fig. 584); it then passes behind the first part of the duodenum, then between the second part and the head of the pancreas, and ends at the lower part of the second segment of the duodenum by opening into that part of the intestine on its left side and somewhat behind (figs. 571, 586, and 587). It pierces the intestinal wall very obliquely, running between the muscular layer for about three-quarters of an inch. There is a slight constriction at its termination. The pancreatic duct is united with the common bile duct just before its termina- tion. There is a slight papilla at their place of opening on the mucous surface of the duodenum. This papilla is about four inches from the pylorus. After the pancreatic duct has entered the bile duct there is a dilatation of the common tube called the ampulla of Vater.