629 SPINAL into the meningeal and the medullary. The meningeal form an anterior and a posterior spinal plexus between the dura mater and the walls of the spinal canal, and are generally known as the meningo-rachidean veins. They receive the veins from the bodies of the vertebra?. The medullary set are situated within the dura mater; they return the blood from the spinal cord, and are known as the medulli- spinal veins. 1. The extraspinal veins.—(a) The veins of the anterior spinal plexus ramify in front of the bodies of the vertebrae. They are of small size and most distinct in the cervical region (fig. 390). They open into the neighbouring veins. (b) The veins of the posterior spinal or dorsal spinal plexus are situated around the spinous processes, the lamina?, and the articular and transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae, the larger veins of the plexus running horizontally forwards along the interspinous ligaments. The plexus is formed chiefly by the union of tributaries proceeding from the integuments of the back and the spinal muscles. Communications take place between the veins of each vertebral segment by vertical branches running upwards and downwards to the plexus above and below respec- tively near the base of the transverse processes. Branches are also sent through the ligamenta subflava between the lamina? of the several vertebrae to the posterior plexus of the intraspinal veins, and also forwards between the transverse processes of the vertebrae to join the vertebral vein in the neck, the dorsal branch of the intercostal veins in the thorax, the lumbar veins in the lumbar region, and the lateral sacral veins in the sacral region. 2. The intraspinal veins are divided into (a) the meningeal; and (b) the medullary, or medulli-spinal. (a) The meningeal extra-medullary or meningo-rachidian veins lie in the fatty tissue between the walls of the vertebral canal and the dura mater or theca vertebralis. They are arranged in four longitudinal channels, two of which »are anterior and two posterior, united by transverse branches corresponding in number to the vertebral segments (fig. 390).