665 LYMPHATICS OF ABDOMEN AND PELVIS wards and backwards to the right lateral ligament, where they either perforate the diaphragm and end in the anterior mediastinal glands, or cross its crus and open into the cceliac glands or receptaculum chyli. (v) A group from the left half of the left lobe pass through the left lateral ligament, and join the oesophageal lym- phatics at the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, or pass with the superior gastric lymphatics behind the pancreas to the cceliac glands. Or they may pierce the diaphragm and enter the glands in the anterior mediastinum. The superficial lymphatics on the under surface of the liver are arranged as follows:—(i) The greater number converge to the transverse fissure, and thence pass with the deep lymphatics to the hepatic glands in the gastro-hepatic omentum; (ii) a group from the back of the right lobe pass to the lumbar glands; ( hi) a group from the back of the left lobe join the oesophageal lymphatics or superior gastric lymphatics, and end with them in the cceliac glands; (iv) the lymphatics of the gall-bladder run with the hepatic artery to the hepatic glands in the gastro-hepatic omentum. (b) The deep set of lymphatics run, in part with the portal vein, and in part with the hepatic vein, (i) The portal set emerge at the transverse fissure, and pass with the blood-vessels to the hepatic glands in the gastro-hepatic omentum, (ii) The hepatic set perforate the diaphragm with the inferior vena cava, and, having passed through some small glands round the upper part of that vessel, join the superficial lymphatics from the posterior margin of the liver, and with them run down the thoracic surface of the vertebral portion of the diaphragm to the commencement of the thoracic duct or receptaculum chyli. The hepatic glands are situated in front of the portal vein between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. They receive the deep portal set of lymphatics, the anterior group of the superficial lymphatics from the convex surface of the liver, most of the superficial lymphatics from the under surface of the liver, and the lymphatics from the gall-bladder. Their efferent vessels proceed to the cceliac glands. (4) The lymphatics of the spleen.—The splenic lymphatics are arranged in a superficial set which ramify beneath the peritoneal covering; and in a deep set, which run with the vessels in the parenchyma of the organ. Both sets unite at the hilum, and terminate in the splenic glands. The splenic glands, eight to ten in number, are situated in the hilum of the spleen, and along the course of the splenic artery and vein. They receive the superficial and deep lymphatics of the spleen, and the left gastric lymphatics which run with the vasa brevia in the gastro-splenic omentum from the greater end of the stomach. The efferent vessels run behind the peritoneum and pancreas with the splenic artery to the cceliac glands. They are joined on the way by the lymphatics of the pancreas. (5) The lymphatics of the pancreas consist of a double set, a superficial and a deep. They leave the pancreas along with the vessels derived from the splenic artery, and, joining the lymphatics of the spleen, end in the cceliac glands. (6) The lymphatics of the kidneys ramify, partly on the surface, and partly in the substance of the organ. They unite at the hilum, and run inwards to the central set of lumbar glands, situated immediately in front of the renal vessels. They receive the lymphatics from the suprarenal bodies and from the upper part of the ureters. (7) The lymphatics of the ureters end chiefly in the renal lymphatics. Those from the lower part join the posterior vesical set of lymphatics. (8) The suprarenal lymphatics leave the suprarenal bodies with the supra- renal veins, and join for the most part the renal lymphatics in the hilum of the kidneys. A few pass direct into the central lumbar chain of glands.