1198 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY tendons. Division below the external malleolus is somewhat easier, but as this opens their synovial sheath or sheaths {vide supra, page 1197), it requires scrupu- lous care as to cleanliness. THE FOOT Bony landmarks.—The following are of the greatest practical importance owing to the operations which are performed upon the foot. (A) Along the inner aspect of the foot are the following:— (1) Internal tuberosity of the calcaneum; (2) internal malleolus; (3) one full inch below the malleolus, the sustentaculum tali; (4) about an inch in front of the internal malleolus, and a little lower, is the tubercle of the scaphoid, the gap between it and the sustentaculum being filled by the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament and the tendon of the tibialis posticus, in which there is often a sesamoid bone; (5) the internal cuneiform; (6) the base of .the first metatarsal; and (7) the head of the same bone, with its sesamoid bones below (Holden). (B) Along the outer aspect are—(1) The outer tuberosity of the calcaneum; Pig. 762.—Articulations of the Foot, Dorsal Aspect. (Bellamy.) TUBERCLE OF SCAPHOID LINE OF CHOPART TUBERCLE OF FIFTH METATARSAL (2) the external malleolus; (3) the peroneal tubercle of the calcaneum (when present), one inch below the malleolus, with the long peroneal tendon below it, and the short one above; (4) the projection of the anterior end of the calcaneum, and the calcaneo-cuboid joint, midway between the tip of the external malleolus and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; (5) the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; (6) the head of this bone. Levels of joints and lines of operations.—In Syme's amputation through the ankle-joint, the incision starts (say in the case of the left foot) from the tip of the external malleolus, and is then carried, pointing a little backwards towards the heel, across the sole to a point half an inch below the internal malleolus. In Pirogoff's amputation the incision begins and ends at the same points, but is carried straight across the sole. In each amputation the extremities of theahove incision are joined by one going straight across the ankle-joint, which lies about half an inch above the tip of the internal malleolus. In Chopart's medio-tarsal amputation (fig. 762), which passes between the astragalus and the scaphoid on the inner side, and the calcaneum and the cuboid on the outer, the line of the joints to be opened would be one drawn across the dorsum from a point just behind the tuberosity of the scaphoid to a point corre-