79 THE NASAL FOSSM In old skulls the frontal sinuses occasionally extend into that portion of the horizontal plate of the frontal bone which forms the roof of the orbit. The following muscles arise within the orbit:—the jour recti, the superior oblique, and levator palpebrse superioris, near the apex; the inferior oblique on the floor of the orbit external to the lachrymal canal; and the tensor tarsi from the lachrymal crest. The margins of the spheno-maxillary fissure give attachment to the orbitalis muscle (see section on the Eye). The nasal fossae or sinuses are two irregular cavities situated on each side of a median vertical septum, extending from the anterior part of the skull-base to the superior surface of the hard palate. They are somewhat oblong in section, but are narrower above than below. Each fossa presents a roof, floor, inner and outer Avail, and opens in front by the anterior naris, and communicates behind with the pharynx by the posterior naris. The roof resembles that of a house with two sloping edges and an intermediate level portion. The anterior slope is formed by the posterior surface of the nasal bone and the nasal spine of the frontal. The horizontal portion corresponds to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and the sphenoidal turbinal. The posterior slope is formed by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid, an ala of the vomer, and a small portion of the sphenoidal process of each palate bone. The sphenoidal sinus opens at the upper and back part of the roof into the spheno-ethmoidal recess. The floor is wider than the roof, concave from side to side, and has a slight backward slope. It is formed mainly by the palatine process of the maxilla, and completed posteriorly by the horizontal plate of the palate bone. Near its anterior part, close beside the septum, is the anterior palatine canal. The septum, or inner wall, is formed by the crest of the sphenoid, the crest of the nasal bones, nasal spine of frontal, the mesethmoid, vomer, and the median crest formed by the apposition of the palatine plates of the maxillae and the hori- zontal plates of the palate bones. The anterior border has a triangular outline, limited above by the mesethmoid, and below by the vomer. This receives the triangular cartilage of the nose. The posterior border is formed by the pharyngeal edge of the vomer. The septum is usually deflected to one side, and is occasionally perforated. Sometimes a strip of cartilage, continuous with the triangular cartilage, persists between the vomer and mesethmoid. The outer wall is formed by the nasal process and inner wall of the maxilla, the lachrymal, the ethmoidal and inferior turbinals, the vertical plate of the palate