THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 952 of the palato-pharyngeus and are inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage (fig. 559a); the rest blend with the constrictors. The palato-pharyngeus is described with the muscles of the soft palate. The muscular coat of the pharynx is supplied by the pharyngeal plexus and the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The stylo-pharyngeus is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Relations.—The pharynx is loosely connected by areolar tissue with the pre- vertebral fascia, the longus colli, and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles, and vertebral column. Laterally, it is in relation with the styloid process and its muscles, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves, the superior laryngeal nerve and its internal and external laryngeal branches, the parotid and thyroid glands, the sheath of the carotid vessels, the pharyngeal plexus of nerves, the ascending pharyngeal artery, and the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery; above, it is separated from the ramus of the mandible and internal pterygoid muscle by a cellular interval; and beneath its investing fascia there is a plexus of veins. The interior of the pharynx, viewed from behind, presents the seven open- ings already named. At its upper and back part the mucous membrane forms a rounded projection which corresponds to the anterior recti muscles, and on each side of this it sinks backwards, beneath the tip of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, and behind the Eustachian tube, to form a cul-de-sac known as the pharyngeal recess, or fossa of Rosenmiiller. In the roof of the cavity just below the body of the occipital bone and in the middle line, the mucous membrane clips into a little pouch with a contracted orifice, the pharyngeal bursa, which is easily demonstrated in the foetus and young child, but commonly entirely disappears in the adult. Stretching across the pharyngeal wall between the Eustachian orifices and above the pharyngeal bursa, there occurs a special group of lymphatic follicles. It extends indefinitely upwards towards the root of the cavity, and constitutes the pharyngeal tonsil. This portion of the naso-pharynx is exceedingly liable to become swollen and chronically thickened in naso-pharyngeal catarrh. THE (ESOPHAGUS The oesophagus is that portion of the alimentary tract which extends between the pharynx and the stomach. It is more constricted than the rest of the canal, being narrowest at its commencement opposite the sixth cervical vertebra and lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It is again somewhat contracted in its passage through the diaphragm, which is opposite the upper border of the eleventh thoracic vertebra. It is nine or ten inches (25 cm.) in length, and in its course downwards follows the curves of the vertebral column, until it finally passes forwards in front of, and slightly to the left of the aorta to gain the oesophageal opening in the dia- phragm. In addition to these curves it presents two lateral curvatures, one convex towards the left side at the root of the neck and in the upper part of the thorax, and the other concave towards the left in the lower part of the thorax where it leaves the vertebral column. It lies in the middle line at its commencement opposite the sixth cervical vertebra, and again, at a lower level, opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra. Relations in the neck.—The oesophagus has in front of it the trachea, the posterior portion of the left lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, branches of the inferior thyroid artery and the carotid sheath. Behind, it rests upon the vertebral column, the left longus colli muscle, and pre- vertebral fascia. On its right side are placed the right carotid and right recurrent nerve; and on the left side the left inferior thyroid vessels, left carotid artery, left subclavian, and the thoracic duct. The recurrent nerves pass upwards on each side to gain the