1174 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY mark of the thigh, forming a boundary of Scarpa's triangle, Hunter's canal, and the popliteal space, can be readily brought into view by the patient's raising his limb. In the middle line the rectus muscle stands out in bold relief, with its tendon of insertion and the patella, wdien the leg is extended. On either side of this muscle is a furrow, and on either side, again, of this furrow the vasti become prominent. Between the vastus interims and adductor muscles is a depression indicating Hunter's canal. At the upper and inner third of the thigh, if the limb be abducted, the upper part of the adductor longus comes into strong relief. On Fig. 739.—The Muscles attached to the Pubes. Hunterian Museum.) External oblique (From a dissection in the Rectus abdominis Adductor longus CORPORA CAVERNOSA Adductor brevis ; below it and exter- nally are adductor magnus and ob- turator externus CORPUS SPONGIOSUM Accelerator urinae Raphe Quadratus temoris Semi-tendinosus and biceps be- low. (The line lias by mistake been drawn be- yond the semi- tendinosus to point to the lowest fibres of the adductor magnus.) Rectus abdominis Adductor longus Adductor brevis Obturator externus Adductor magnus Gracilis Erector penis TranBversu3 perinasi Central tendinous point Sphincter ani the inner side below, above the knee-joint, the vertical fibres of the adductor magnus end in a powerful tendon coming down to the adductor tubercle (fig. 752). This replaces here the internal intermuscular septum, and the insertion of the tendon marks the level of the lower epiphysial line of the femur. At the outer and back part of the thigh the vastus externus is separated from the biceps by a groove which indicates the external intermuscular septum. Poupart's ligament.—The abdomen is separated from the thigh by a fold, best marked in flexion—the inguinal furrow. In this, pressure detects the meeting of the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the fascia lata, i.e. Poupart's liga-