863 NERVES OF ORBIT remarkable for their tortuous course, for their delicate walls, and for their loose attachment to the surrounding tissues. The ophthalmic artery gives off special branches in the orbit to the lachrymal gland, the muscles, the retina (through the optic nerve), and the eyeball, as well as to the meninges, the ethmoidal cells, and the nasal mucous membrane. Twigs from all the different branches go to supply the fat, fasciae, and ordinary nerves of the orbit. Branches which leave the orbit ante- riorly ramify on $he forehead and nose, and also go to the supply of the eyelids and the tear-passages. The ophthalmic artery has many anastomoses with branches of the external carotid. The contents of the orbit are also supplied in part by the infraorbital artery, a branch of the internal maxillary; in particular this artery supplies part of the inferior rectus and inferior oblique muscles in the cavity, and also gives a branch to the lower eyelid. Veins.—Branches, corresponding generally to those of the artery, unite to form the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins, which ultimately, either separately or united into one trunk, pass through the sphenoidal fissure and empty into the cavernous sinus. The inferior vein is connected with the pterygoid plexus by a branch which leaves the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure. Nerves of the orbit.—These are motor, sensory, and sympathetic, and all enter the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, with the exception of one small sensory Fig. 490.—Section through Contents of Right Orbit, 1-2 mm. in front of the Optic Foramen, viewed from behind. (After Lange.) FOURTH .VERVE Superior rectus and levator palpebral superioris muscles Superior oblique muscle . f^j? ' jf^^^T^^^^^^^ OPTIC NERVE Internal rectus muscle Inferior rectus muscle Ophthalmic vein OPHTHALMIC NERVE (FRONTAL, NASAL, A ND LA CHR1 'MA L BRANCHES) rr Ophthalmic vein 1 —7" Ophthalmic artery rE THIRD NERVE — r~—tp 7- f)p!ift/ainiic artery ^awTi #?•■'> ■/ H1X711 yj:nvE Esterual rectus muscle branch passing through the spheno-maxillary fissure. (The optic nerve has been already described, and is not included in this account.) A. The motor nerves are the third, fourth, and sixth cranial. 1. The third nerve enters the orbit in two parts, an upper smaller, and a lower larger division. The upper division gives off two branches: one supplies the Superior rectus, entering its lower surface far back; the other branch goes to the levator palpebral, entering its lower surface in its posterior third. The lower division divides into three branches, of which one supplies the inferior rectus, entering its upper surface far back, and another supplies the internal rectus, entering its inner surface a little behind its middle. The third branch of the lower division gives (1) the short root to the ciliary ganglion, and (2) one or more twigs to the inferior rectus, and the remainder of this branch then enters the lower surface of the inferior oblique muscle about its middle. 2. The fourth nerve supplies the superior oblique muscle, entering its upper surface about midway in its course. 3. The sixth nerve supplies the external rectus, entering its inner surface about the junction of the posterior and middle thirds of the muscle. As regards the manner of termination of these motor nerves, it is found that in all the ocular muscles the nerve on its entrance breaks up into numerous bundles of fibres, which form first coarse and then fine plexuses, the latter ultimately sending off fine twigs supplying the muscle throughout with nerve-endings. The