ORGANS OF SPECIAL SEXSE 876 tundum below. The fenestra ovalis leads into the vestibule of the internal ear (fig. 498a), and in the recent state it lodges the base of the stapes. The fenestra rotun- dum is closed by the secondary membrane of the tympanum, which separates the scala tympani of the cochlea from the tympanic cavity. Above the fenestra ovalis there is a rounded ridge of bone, indicating the position of the aqueduct of Fallo- pius, which contains the facial nerve. The posterior wall presents the hollow pyramid which lodges the stapedius muscle and the openings which lead into the mastoid cells; these vary much in size, and receive a mucous lining from the cavity. Anteriorly the tympanic cavity is continued into the Eustachian tube, and it is separated from the carotid canal by a thin plate of bone. The Eustachian tube is about one and a half inches (37 mm. ) in length, passes from the tympanum downwards, forwards, and inwards. It is partly bony and partly cartilaginous. The osseous portion (fig. 498a) is about half an inch (13 mm.) in length. It commences just below the orifice which transmits the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle, and, gradually contracting, ends at the isthmus by a jagged and oblique orifice between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone. To it is attached the cartilaginous portion of the tube, which is about an inch in length Fig. 498a.—Horizontal Section of Left Temporal Bone, showing the Various Parts of the Ear. tympanic ring tympanum external meatus floor of tensor tympani canal (24 mm.). This is composed of an elongated triangular plate, so folded upon itself as to leave an interval below which is completed by fibrous tissue. At first the canal is narrow, but it becomes much expanded towards its trumpet-shaped termination. Its orifice, which is somewhat oval, opens into the upper part and side of the pharynx, on a level with and just behind the inferior meatus of the nose. The mucous membrane possesses a ciliated lining. It is thin near the tym- panic cavity, but it is much more vascular, thicker, and possesses mucous glands and adenoid tissue near its pharyngeal orifice. Sections of the cartilaginous* portion of the tube show that the cartilaginous plate is curled round like a hook with the bend above and the shank internal. The membranous portion is thin where it is attached to the tip of the hook, but that it becomes much thicker below. A small space near the bony portion of the tube, immediately below the hook, remains permanently open, but elsewhere the walls are in contact, except when separated by the action of the tensor palati muscle, or when forcibly driven asunder, as in the act of sneezing, etc. A number of small sesamoid fibro-cartilages, some of which are visible to the naked eye, are buried in the submucous tissue.