898 SECTION VII THE THORAX INCLUDING THE ORGANS OF VOICE, RESPIRATION, AND CIRCULATION By ARTHUR HENSMAN, F.R.C.S. Revised for Second Edition by ARTHUR ROBINSON, M.D., M.R.C.S. LECTURER ON ANATOMY IN THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL MEDICAL SCHOOL; EXAMINER IN ANATOMY FOR THE CONJOINT BOARD OF ENGLAND THE THORAX THE thorax, or trunk of the body—lying between the neck and the abdomen—■ is formed partly of bones and partly of soft connecting tissues. In the living body it is constantly varying in relation to the respiratory process. The cavity is bounded in front by the sternum and upper six costal cartilages and internal intercostal muscles; behind by the thoracic vertebrae and posterior ends of the ribs; and laterally by the ribs with the internal and external intercostal muscles. Its form is conical, flattened in the adult from before backwards, so that its transverse is its greater diameter. In the human foetus, as in the lower animals, it is flattened laterally, its antero-posterior diameter being the greater. It is narrow above, where the ribs are short, and broad below. Owing to the backward set of the hinder extremities of the ribs, the bodies of the vertebras pro- ject forwards into the cavity, which thus, on a transverse section, appears more or less cordiform. The superior aperture is bounded, in front by the upper margin of the ster- num; behind by the body of the first thoracic vertebra; on each side by the first rib. It measures in a well-formed adult about two and a quarter inches from lief ore backwards, and four and a quarter inches from side to side. The ribs slope down- wards towards the sternum, the upper margin of which corresponds to the inter- vertebral substance between the second and third thoracic vertebra1. It transmits the following structures:—(1) The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and more deeply a thin layer of the deep cervical fascia which blends below with the sheath of the great vessels and the pericardium; (2) the thymus gland in the infant, or its shrunken remains in the adult; (3) an occasional middle thyroid artery, the trachea, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, the longus colli muscles, and a thin layer of fascia overlying them. Laterally: the innominate artery (on the right side), the common carotid and subclavian (on the left), with the internal mammary and superior intercostal arteries; the innominate and inferior thyroid veins; the phrenic, pneumogastric, and sympathetic nerves, with the left recurrent laryngeal, some cardiac branches, and the anterior branches of the first thoracic nerve. On each