760 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM (submaxillary) gland, and gives minute twigs to Wharton's duct, which accompany the duct to its termination. From the fore part of the ganglion a branch passes to the lingual nerve, and through this branch fibres from the chorda tympani are conveyed to the sublingual gland and to the tongue. Sublingual ganglion.—A small ganglion has been described by Blandin and others on the twig to the sublingual gland. According to Bose, it is not constant. Otic Ganglion The otic ganglion, or ganglion of Arnold, is a small reddish-grey body which is placed immediately below the foramen ovale, internal to the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve. The cartilage of the Eustachian tube and the tensor tympani muscle are placed close to its inner side, and the middle meningeal artery is behind it. The ganglion is oval in form, and compressed in its coronal diameter. It is greatest in its sagittal diameter, which is about four millimetres. Roots.—The mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve supplies one or more roots to the otic ganglion; these roots probably contain both sensory and motor fibres, and are associated with the nerve to the internal pterygoid. The lesser superficial petrosal nerve enters the ganglion, being a motor root. The ganglion receives a sympathetic root from the plexus which surrounds the middle meningeal artery. Branches.—The otic ganglion furnishes muscular twigs to the tensor palatiand tensor tympani; these twigs, especially the former, pass for the most part from the mandibular division of the fifth nerve to the muscles without interruption in the nerve-cells of the ganglion. It also gives communicating branches to the auriculo- temporal, the chorda tympani, and to the Vidian nerves. SIXTH OR ABDUCENT NERVE The sixth or abducent nerve arises from an approximately spherical cluster of nerve-cells which is placed between the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle and the formatio reticularis. This nucleus is situated near the middle line, a little in front of the stria? acusticse, and corresponds to the eminentia teres. It is on a line with the nuclei of the third and fourth nerves. The fibres which arise from it plunge forwards and downwards through the substance of the pons, and emerge at the lower border of the latter structure (superficial origin). Some of the fibres pass through the pyramidal body; others pass out in the interval between the latter and the olivary body. The sixth nerve was formerly described as giving fibres of origin to the facial, but Gudden and (lowers have shown that this is not the case. A remarkable strand of fibres passes from the abducens nucleus to the posterior longitudinal bundle. It runs brainwards, forming the inner border of the bundle, and decussates below the corpora quadrigemina with its fellow of the opposite side ; it then joins the third nerve, and passes eventually into the internal rectus muscle. Thus the eyes can be directed to the right or left, as the case may be, by the action of a single nucleus, e. g. in turning the eyes to the right, the right external rectus and the left internal rectus are used, and these are both supplied by the right abducens nucleus. The sixth nerve pierces the dura mater at a point a little above the junction of the basilar process of the occipital bone with the sphenoid. It runs upwards between the pons and the body of the sphenoid and at the side of the basilar artery, and turns forwards in the interval between the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid, passing in this situation under cover of a ligament which connects the osseous prominences above mentioned. It enters the floor of the cavernous sinus, and passes on to the outer side of the internal carotid artery. In this situation it receives several communi- cations from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, passing between the inferior division of the third nerve and the ophthalmic vein, in the interval between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, and ends by piercing the ocular surface of that muscle.