STRUCTURE OF THE MUSCLES attachment, it is very necessary to bear in mind not only those to bone and cartilage, but also those to the fibrous structures or septa and aponeuroses which lie between or around the muscles. Such attachments are best seen when the area of bone surface available for origin or insertion is small. By this means a very great extension is given to this area, and a small bony process, such as the inner condyle of the humerus, is able to give a firm resistance to the traction of many strong muscles. 4. The structure will include not only the direction and curvature of the fleshy fibres, and the extent of fibrous tissue by which these fibres arise or are inserted; but also the internal arrangement of tendons and muscular fibre, which is often of a somewhat complicated character. The simplest structure of all is that of muscles with no tendons, in which the fleshy fibres run parallel from one end to the other. Many of the small muscles of the face are of this character. The sterno-mastoid and sartorius are examples also of muscles in which the parallel fleshy fibres form nearly the whole of the structure. It will be found that in these muscles, on account of the number of joints passed over and the distance of the line of the muscle from the axes of these joints, the range of movement is very great. In most parts of the body, however, there would be a great waste of fleshy fibre if this arrangement prevailed. Roughly speaking, we may say, that when fleshy fibres contract fully, their length is diminished by one half. Now, if the distance between the movable points of the skeleton which are joined by the muscles can- not be lessened by this amount, it is obvious that some of the contractile power of the muscle would be wasted. When, therefore, the movable points of the skeleton bridged by a muscle can only be approximated through a limited space, it will be found that the parallel fleshy bundles are about twice the length of this space, and that the rest of the muscle consists of inextensible tendon, which acts simply as a ligament to attach the contractile muscle to the bones. But this addition of tendon to the fleshy part of the muscle is effected in various ways. The simplest plan is that in which the addition is made at one end or the other of the muscle. The palmaris longus is to some extent an example of such an arrange- ment. By examining the bones it will be seen that the front of the carpus cannot be approximated to the internal condyle of the humerus by more than three inches. The fleshy bundles are, therefore, of about twice this length, and they are accumu- lated towards the upper end of the muscle, while the rest of its length is occupied by a long tendon. A more common arrangement is for the short fleshy fibres to arise in succession along the surface of a long bone or from an intermuscular septum, and to pass in parallel lines to the end and side of a long tendon, which gradually thickens with the increase of the number of the fibres inserted into it. Such a muscle is like a feather, of which the quill with its diminishing upper extremity will represent the tendon, and the barbs upon one side of it the fleshy fibres. Hence this arrangement is called penniform, from penna, a feather (fig. 259). This form is found when considerable power is required, but with only a small range of movement. To appreciate fully the effect of such a muscle, we should in our imagination take all the short parallel fibres and place them side by side at the end of the tendon. The muscle would then be converted into a very thick and short fleshy mass with a very long tendon. Frequently a muscle arises in two lines from the adjacent surfaces of two bones, from which two sets of parallel fibres converge upon a tendon which runs down in the interval between the bones. This arrangement resembles a feather with barbs on either side of the quill, and is called hipennijorm. Examples of both these forms are found in the leg. The peronei arising from the fibula alone are penni- form, while the tibialis posticus and soleus, arising from both tibia and fibula, are bipenniform. In some cases a further complication is introduced by the origin of a muscle from both sides of several fibrous septa, as well as from the intermediate surfaces of the bone to which the septa are attached. The insertion may also be of the same character. A good example of this, which is called the multipenniform arrange- ment, is the deltoid, a very powerful muscle with a short range of movement. In some few cases the tendon is intercalated between two fleshy masses. Such muscles are called biventral. The central tendon may represent a bony structure