910 THE ORGANS OF VOICE broad, flat band which intervenes between the ventricle of the larynx and the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage. The arytenoideus consists of transverse fibres passing from one arytenoid cartilage to the other, and attached to their posterior concave surfaces. Super- ficially are some oblique fibres, which decussate where they meet. These pass from the outer angle of one cartilage below to the summit of the opposite. A few of these fibres pass onwards to the aryteno-epiglottidean fold and side of epiglottis. These, reinforced by fibres attached to the summit of the arytenoid cartilage, constitute the aryteno-epiglottideus muscle. A few fibres blend with the thyro- arytenoid muscle. The arytenoideus approximates and depresses the arytenoid cartilages. These actions are assisted by the aryteno-epiglottidei, which depress the epiglottis and contract the superior aperture of the larynx. The thyro-epiglottideus (sometimes described as part of the thyro-arytenoid) consists of fibres attached below to the thyroid cartilage which, spreading above, reach the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, and the outer wall of the laryngeal pouch as well as the epiglottis. (For the nerve-supply of the laryngeal muscles see page 912.) The Interior of the Larynx.—The superior aperture, or opening of the glottis, is triangular in shape, wide in front, narrow behind, and placed so obliquely as to be almost vertical in the living subject. Above and in front it is bounded by the epiglottis, behind and below by the interarytenoid notch, whilst on each side'stretches the aryteno-epiglottidean fold containing muscular and liga- mentous fibres. This fold presents two thickened areas, one at the summit of the arytenoid cartilage, and one just in front and above this, formed by the bulging of the cornicular and cuneiform cartilages respectively. Bounded internally by this fold, and externally by the wing of the thyroid cartilage, is a shallow depression—the sinus pyriformis. The cavity of the larynx extends from the aperture above desci-ibed to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Its lining of mucous membrane varies much in its colour and thickness and its fixity to the structures which it overlies. On the surface of the true vocal cords it is extremely thin, pale and adherent, whilst above and below this it is more vascular and more loosely attached to the underlying parts. The submucous tissue contains numerous elastic fibres and mucous glands. The cavity is naturally divided into two portions—supra- and infra-rimal— divided by the glottis or interval between the two true vocal cords. The suprarimal portion corresponds to the space between the wings of the thyroid cartilage. It is broad and triangular above, but narrower below, and its walls are much deeper in front than behind. Immediately above each vocal cord is an oblong depression—the ventricle—bounded above by the crescent-shaped edge of the false vocal cord, below by the straight margin of the true vocal cord, and externally by the thyro-arytenoid muscle. The ventricle extends nearly the whole length of the vocal cords, and is lined by a thin and tightly adherent mucous membrane. It allows the free vibration of the true vocal cords in the production of sound. From the anterior part of the ventricle there extends upwards, for about half an inch, a small blind sac, named the laryngeal pouch. This reaches as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage; its mouth below is narrow and guarded by two little folds of mucous membrane. A delicate fibrous investment is continued from the true vocal cord around the sac. Some fatty tissue is enclosed within this, and its mucous lining contains numerous glands. On its outer side are some fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle; whilst on its inner side is a thin layer of muscular fibres, derived from the aryteno-epiglottideus, and sometimes known as Hilton's muscle, or the compressor sacculi laryngis. The superior or false vocal cords stand farther apart than the true, and cannot be made absolutely tense. They have already been sufficiently described. A shallow fossa—the fossa innominata—is observable, especially during phonation, between the false cord and the aryteno-epiglottidean fold; it is placed a little behind the epiglottis. The inferior or true vocal cords are the structures concerned in the production of the voice. They stretch from the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage to the