387 EXTENSOR PROPRIUS HALLUCIS MUSCLES OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG Between the anterior border of the tibia and the anterior of the two external intermuscular septa, are placed four muscles: the tibialis anticus, the extensor proprius hallucis, the extensor longus digitorum, and the peroneus tertius. 1. TIBIALIS ANTICUS The tibialis anticus—named from its attachment to the tibia and its position in the front of the leg—is fusiform and somewhat flattened, with a long terminal tendon. Origin.—(1) Part of the under surface of the outer tuberosity of the tibia; (2) the outer surface of the upper two-thirds of the tibia; (3) the adjacent part of the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane; (4) the posterior surface of the upper part of the deep fascia of the leg; (5) an intermuscular septum which sepa- rates it from the extensor longus digitorum in the upper third of the leg. Insertion.—The lower part of the front of the inner surface of the internal cuneiform bone and the adjacent part of the base of the first metatarsal bone. Structure.—A strong penniform muscle the fibres of which, arising fleshy from the bone and the fascia?, pass forwards and most of them somewhat outwards to be attached to the deep surface and outer border of a tendon, which, beginning below the middle of the leg, becomes free of fleshy fibres two or three inches (5 to 8 cm.) above the ankle-joint; and, after passing first beneath the upper portion of the anterior annular ligament, then partly under and partly over the lower portion, expands slightly to be inserted upon the inner margin of the foot. In passing over the instep it turns upon itself so that its anterior surface becomes below internal. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior tibial division of the external popliteal nerve by branches which enter the upper third of the muscle upon the outer part of its deep aspect. Action.—(1) To flex the ankle-joint; (2) to draw upwards the inner border of the foot and so invert the sole; (3) to adduct the front portion of the foot. The first of these movements will be performed chiefly at the ankle-joint; the second and third at the medio-tarsal and calcaneo-astragaloid joints. This muscle is of great importance in walking, as it raises the anterior part of the foot and so enables the toes to clear the ground when the leg is swinging forwards to begin another step. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia; on the outer side, the extensor longus digitorum and extensor proprius hallucis with the anterior tibial vessels and nerve; deeply, the interosseous membrane and the tibia. The tendon lies in a special synovial sheath beneath the two portions of the anterior annular ligament, and upon the ankle-joint and inner bones of the tarsus. A small bursa separates the tendon from the upper part of the inner surface of the internal cuneiform bone. Variations.—A small tendon is sometimes sent to the head of the first metatarsal bone, the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, or to the fascia covering the instep. 2. EXTENSOR PROPRIUS HALLUCIS The extensor proprius hallucis—named from its being the special extensor belonging to the great toe (proprius = peculiar to)—is a somewhat triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The middle two-fourths of the anterior (or extensor) surface of the fibula external to the attachment of the interosseous membrane; (2) the adjacent portion of the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane. Insertion.—(1) The ligamentous structures at the back and sides of the first