643 DEEP VEINS OF UPPER EXTREMITY II. THE DEEP VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The deep veins of the upper extremity accompany their corresponding arteries and consequently require no detailed description. There are two veins to each artery below the level of the axilla, known as the companion veins or venae comites. In the leg, as will be afterwards noticed, the venae comites of the main arteries extend as far as the knee only. The deep veins all contain numerous valves, and communicate at frequent intervals through intermuscular veins with the superficial. Beginning at the fingers, two minute veins accompany each digital artery along the sides of the fingers, and, uniting at the cleft, form interdigital veins which join the venae comites of the arteries, forming the superficial palmar arch. In like manner the veins accompanying the arteries forming the deep arch receive tributaries corresponding to the branches of that arch. The vena? comites from the ulnar side of the superficial and deep arches unite at the spot where the ulnar artery divides into the superficial and deep branch to form two ulnar venae comites; whilst those on the radial side of the superficial and deep arch accompany the super- ficial volar artery and the termination of the radial artery respectively, and unite at the spot where the superficial volar is given off from the radial artery, to form the radial venae comites. The ulnar and radial venae comites thus formed course up the forearm with their respective arteries, receiving numerous tributaries from the muscles amongst which they run, and giving frequent communications to the super- ficial veins. They finally unite at the bend of the elbow to form the brachial venae comites. The ulnar venae comites receive, before joining the radial, the companion veins of the interosseous arteries. At the bend of the elbow the deep veins are connected with the superficial median vein by a short, thick trunk, the deep median vein. The brachial venae comites accompany the brachial artery, the inner vein receiving at the lower border of either the teres major or subscapularis muscle the outer vein and the basilic vein, to form a single axillary vein. The venae comites of the arteries of the arm anastomose with one another by frequent cross branches. The axillary vein is formed by the junction of the inner brachial vena comes with the basilic vein at the lower border of either the teres major or subscapularis muscle. It is a vessel of large size, conveying as it does nearly the whole of the returned blood from the upper extremity. It accompanies the axillary artery through the axilla, lying to its inner side and at the upper part of the space on a slightly lower plane. At |he outer border of the first rib it changes its name to the subclavian. It has one or two axillary glands in close connection with it, and is liable, if care is not taken, to be wounded in removing these glands when infiltrated with cancer secondary to cancer of the breast. The vein contains a pair of valves, usually placed near the lower border of the subscapularis muscle. It receives in its course through the axilla:—(1) The subscapular veins which accompany the sub- scapular artery; (2) the circumflex veins accompanying the circumflex arteries; (3) the long thoracic veins accompanying the long thoracic artery; (4) numerous small veins returning the blood from the axillary glands; (5) the veins correspond- ing to the branches of the thoracic axis; and (6) the cephalic vein. The subclavian vein (fig. 329) is the continuation of the axillary. It begins at the outer border of the first rib, and terminates by joining the internal jugular to form the innominate vein opposite the outer part of the sternoclavicular articula- tion. It lies anterior to the subclavian artery and on a lower plane, and is separated from the artery in the second part of its course by the scalenus anticus muscle. The subclavian vein, just before the spot where it is joined by the external jugular, contains a pair of valves. Tributaries.—Near the outer border of the sterno-mastoid muscle it receives the external jugular vein. Occasionally the cephalic vein, or a branch from the cephalic (the jugulo-cephalic), passes over the clavicle to the subclavian (fig. 396). Chief variations.—(1) The subclavian vein may run on a higher plane than usual, lying