932 THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION The Openings and their Valves The orifice of the pulmonary artery is circular and obliquely placed at the summit of the infundibulum near the septum. It is guarded by three valves, the pulmonary semilunar valves. Of these two are placed anteriorly and one pos- teriorly (fig. 548). Immediately above and behind each semilunar valve there is a pouch or sinus. These collectively constitute the pulmonary sinuses, or sinuses of Valsalva. Each valve is formed of a fibrous layer within a reduplication of the lining membrane, which is continuous on the upper surface with the innermost coats of the artery, and on the opposite surface with endocardium of the ventricle. In the centre of the free straight edge of each valve there is a little fibro-carti- laginous nodule, the corpus Arantii, and this margin is further strengthened by a delicate tendinous band. Another fibrous band in like manner strengthens the convex attached portion of the valve, and from this a third set of obliquely inter- lacing fibres pass throughout the whole valve towards the nodule. Two narrow crescent-shaped areas, the lunulse, near the free edge on each side of the nodule, remain almost free from this fibrous invasion, and it is these thinner portions which are in apposition during closure of the valve. A fibrous ring strengthens the pulmonary orifice, giving attachment below to the muscular fibres of the heart; whilst above, opposite the sinuses of Valsalva, it is deeply hollowed into three semilunar Fig. 551.—Interior View of the Aortic Semilunar Valves. Sinus of Valsalva Section of fibrous ring Free edge of valve notches. The valves are attached to the edges of these notches as well as to the horns which project inwards and separate them from one another. (See fig. 551, of the aortic valves, in which these characters are present and more strongly marked.) The auriculo-ventricular opening is oval and guarded by the tricuspid valve. The three triangular flaps of this valve are continuous with one another at their broad ends, and so form a continuous fold around the orifice; but beyond, they project with jagged and sharply dentated edges towards the apex of the ventricle. The chorda; tendinese, which chiefly arise from the papillary muscles already described, pass to their free borders and ventricular surfaces. The largest segment of the valve is placed in front, between the auriculo-ventricular orifice and the infundibulum, the smallest behind near the septum, and the third, which is the most movable, is situated on the right. Smaller segments intervene between the larger flaps. The chordae tendinese, which arise in groups from the papillary muscles, divide as they pass to be attached to the edges and ventricular surfaces of the neighbouring segments. Additional cords are furnished from the ventricular walls, and especially from the septum to the small segment, and some of these are provided with little papillary muscles. The segments of this valve, except at the extremities and margins, contain abundant fibrous and a small amount of muscular tissue. They are attached by their thickened bases to a fibrous ring which surrounds and strengthens the orifice. The surfaces which look towards the opening are smooth, whilst upon the opposite