410 THE MUSCLES oblique muscles, in passing from the crest of the ilium to the lower ribs, a much more complete approximation of the bones is effected. Relations.—Superficially, the obliquus interims, the cartilages of the lower ribs, some small vessels, and the lower intercostal nerves; above, it is continuous with the lower border of the triangularis sterni; below, it lies above the spermatic cord or round ligament, and its conjoined tendon lies for a short distance beneath these structures; deeply, the transversalis fascia which separates it from the peri- toneum. The sheath of the rectus is formed by the aponeuroses of the three preceding muscles. That of the obliquus internus divides into an anterior and posterior layer. The anterior layer blended with the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus forms the front portion of the sheath. Above, it is attached to the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs; and internally it blends with the posterior por- tion of the sheath along the linea alba. The posterior portion of the sheath is formed by the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus, which is blended with the aponeurosis of the transversalis. Above, it is attached to the lower edge of the cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and to the ensiform cartilage. Internally it blends with the front portion of the sheath along the linea alba. Rather nearer the umbilicus than the pubes, the posterior portion of the sheath becomes suddenly much thinner and weaker at the fold of Douglas, which is a transverse line indicating that the fibres of the abdominal aponeuroses which have down to this level formed the posterior portion of the sheath, now pass to its front wall. Below this level the posterior portion of the sheath is formed by a thickening of the transversalis fascia (page 411). POSTERIOR VERTICAL MUSCLE—QUADRATUS LUMBORUM The quadratus lumborum (fig. 286)—named from its approximately square shape and its position in the region of the loins—is a thick quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—-(1) About two inches (5 cm.) of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium at the junction of its middle and posterior thirds; (2) the ilio-lumbar liga- ment; (3) the tips of the transverse processes of the three or four lower lumbar vertebras. Insertion.—(1) The inner half of the lower border of the last rib; (2) the tips of the transverse processes of the upper three or four lumbar vertebrae; and (3) the fibrous continuations which pass out from these transverse processes in the substance of the middle portion of the lumbar fascia, and which represent the abdominal ribs. Structure.—This muscle varies considerably in its structure and arrangement, the origins from, and insertions into the transverse processes differing much in different subjects. Its origin is usually by short tendinous intermixed with fleshy fibres, and extends at its lower part all along the ilio-lumbar ligament, and behind the attachment of this ligament from the inner lip of the crest of the ilium. The fibres converge somewhat as they ascend; the outermost, passing upwards and inwards to the middle point of the lower border of the last rib, while the inner fibres pass vertically upwards along the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra?, from which they receive short tendons, and they sometimes give tendinous slips to these processes. On the anterior and posterior surfaces of the muscle are often seen ascending fibres from the transverse processes, which diverge slightly before they are inserted into the lower border of the last rib. Nerve-supply.—From the twelfth thoracic and upper lumbar nerves, by fila- ments which enter the muscle upon its anterior surface near its inner border. Action.—(1) It will draw downwards the last rib, and will therefore act as a lateral flexor of the thorax as well as of the lower thoracic and the lumbar spine; (2) it will assist in expiration by drawing down the last rib; (3) taking its fixed point from the last rib, it will draw upwards the crest of the ilium, and so act as a lateral flexor of the pelvis upon the thorax. Relations.—In front lie the kidney, the colon, the psoas, the lumbar arteries and nerves, separated from it by the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia. Behind,