MOVEMENTS OF THE THORAX AS A WHOLE 215 strength with elasticity is given to the wall of the trunk at a part where the cartilages are the only firm structures in its composition; while a slight gliding movement is permitted between the costal cartilages themselves, which takes place round an axis corresponding to the long axis of the cartilages. By this means, the outward projection of the lower part of the thoracic wall is increased by deep inspiration. Before describing these movements as a whole, it must be premised that there are some few modifications in the movements of certain ribs resulting from their shape. Thus the first rib (and to a less extent the second also), which is flat on its upper and under surfaces, revolves on a transverse axis drawn through the costo- vertebral and costo-transverse joints. During inspiration and expiration, the anterior extremities of the first pair of costal arches play up and down, the tubercles and the heads of the ribs acting in a hinge-like manner, the latter having also a slight screwing motion. By this movement the anterior ends of the costal arches are simply raised or depressed, and the sternum pushed a little forwards: it may be likened to the movement of a pump-handle, as in fig. 218, a, b. The movements of the other ribs, particularly in the mid-region of the thorax, are more complex, for, besides the elevation of the anterior extremities, the bodies and angles of the ribs rise nearly as much as the extremities themselves. In this movement the tubercles of the ribs glide upwards and backwards in inspiration, and downwards and forwards in expiration; and the movement may be likened to that of a bucket handle, as in fig. 218, A, B. During inspiration, the cavity of the thorax is increased in every direction. The antero-posterior diameter is increased by the thrusting forwards of the sternum, caused by the elevation of the costal cartilages and fore part of the ribs, whereby they are brought to nearly the same level as the heads of the ribs. The transverse diameter is increased: (i) Behind, by the elevation of the middle part of the ribs; for when at rest the mid-part of the rib is on a lower level than either the costo-vertebral or chondro-sternal articulations. Owing to this obliquity the transverse diameter is increased when the rib is raised, and the increase is propor- tionate to the degree of obliquity, (ii) By the eversion of the lower border of the costal arch, which rolls outwards as the arch is raised, (iii) The transverse diameter is increased in front by the abduction of the anterior extremity of the rib at the same time as it is elevated and thrust forwards. The increase in the vertical diameter of the thorax is due to the elevation of the ribs, especially the upper ones, and the consequent widening of the intercostal spaces; but the chief increase in this direction is due to the descent of the diaphragm. The greatest increase both in the antero-posterior and transverse diameters takes place where the ribs are longest, most oblique, and most curved at their angles, and MOVEMENTS OF THE THORAX AS A WHOLE Fig. 218.—Diagram of Axis of Rib-movement. (After Kirkes.) B