166 THE SKELETON The internal surface presents near its middle and upper part an oval facet for articulation with the external cuneiform bone (fig. 172); behind this, a second facet for the scaphoid is frequently seen (fig. 173). Generally the two facets are con- fluent and form an elliptical surface (fig. 174). The remainder of the internal surface is rough, and has strong interosseous ligaments attached to it. Jutting from the inferior internal angle of the posterior surface is a process of bone (calcanean process of cuboid), which projects beneath the sustentaculum tali. This process occasionally terminates in a rounded facet, which plays on the head of the astragalus external to the facet for the spring ligament. Articulations.—The cuboid articulates with the calcaneum, the external cunei- form, the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, frequently with the scaphoid, and occasionally with the astragalus. Muscles attached to the cuboid :— Tibialis posticus. Flexor brevis hallucis. Ligaments :— Superior calcaneo-cuboid. Inferior calcaneo-cuboid. Interosseous and the cubo-scaphoid ligaments. Ossification.—The cuboid is ossified from a single centre which appears a few weeks after birth. Occasionally the nucleus is visible as a minute earthy spot in the middle of the cartilage at birth. THE SCAPHOID The scaphoid (navicular) bone receives in the hollow of its posterior surface the head of the astragalus. Anteriorly it is convex, and divided by two vertical ridges into three facets, for the internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones. Fig. 175.—The Left Scaphoid. (Anterior view.) FOR INTERNAL CUNEIFORM INNER BORDER TUBEROSITY Occasionally a fourth facet, extremely variable in size, is seen at the outer inferior angle for the cuboid. The upper (dorsal) surface is rough and broad; the inferior (plantar) surface Fig. 176.—The Left Scaphoid, showing a Facet foe the Cuboid. for middle cuneiform FOR EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM FOR CUBOID FOR INTERNAL CUNEIFORM TUBEROSITY is nothing more than a ridge. The outer surface is rough for ligaments; whilst the inner forms a large and prominent eminence, the scaphoid tuberosity, which affords an important attachment for the tibialis 'posticus tendon.