INGUINAL HERNIA 1135 to the deep epigastric artery. Direct, because, instead of making its way down the whole oblique canal, it comes by a short cut, as it were, only into the lower part of the canal, and then emerges by the same opening as the other. A. Oblique, external inguinal hernia.—This contains its coverings as follows:— (1) At the internal ring, or-inlet, it obtains three:—(a) Peritoneum; (b) extra-peritoneal fat; (c) infundibuliform fascia, or the layer of transversalis fascia prolonged at this spot along the cord. (2) In the canal it obtains one. As it emerges beneath the lower border of the internal oblique, it gets some fibres from the cremaster. (3) At the external ring, or outlet, the hernia obtains three, viz.: (a) Inter- columnar fascia; (6) superficial fascia; and (c) skin. B. Direct or internal inguinal hernia.—This does not come through the internal ring, but, making its way through the posterior wall of the lower third of the canal—-i.e. the conjoined tendon, either pushing this forward or splitting it— gets its coverings only from structures in relation to this part of the canal. They are—(1) Peritoneum; (2) extra-peritoneal fat; (3) transversalis fascia (not the Fig. 703.—Vertical Section of Pelvis passing through the Heads of the Thigh Bones. (Blandiu.) specialised part at the internal ring or infundibuliform fascia); (4) conjoined tendon of internal oblique and transversalis. At the outlet of the external ring the coverings obtained are the same as in the oblique hernia, viz. (5) intercolumnar fascia; (6) superficial fascia; (7) skin. Hitherto the two forms of inguinal hernia have been considered from the superficial aspect, that in which they are met with in practice. The inguinal region should also be studied as to the posterior aspect of its so-called rings and canal, as these have to bear the early stress of a commencing hernia. It is against this aspect that a piece of omentum or intestine is constantly and insidiously pressing, and endeavouring to make its way out, Furthermore, when either of the above constituents of hernia have made their way a little farther, and got out into the internal ring or into the canal, the patient is no longer sound. On the posterior wall are certain cords and depressions, marking off regions which correspond to those on the surface. Thus, there are three prominent cords, and three fossEe. Three cords—(1) Median, or urachus ; (2) lateral, or the obliterated hypo- gastric arteries.