657 PARIETAL LYMPHATICS OF THORAX terior mediastinal glands. The lymphatics from the vertebral portion of the dia- phragm end in the lumbar glands (see Lymphatics of Abdomen, page 661). Some of the lymphatics from the right side join the hepatic lymphatics. 2. The parietal lymphatic glands are also divided into the superficial and the deep. The superficial parietal glands.—The three or four glands along the lower border of the pectoralis major, described here as the pectoral set of the axillary glands, are by some authors classed as superficial thoracic glands. They receive the lymphatics from the front of the chest, and some of the lymphatics of the mammary gland. There is also occasionally a superficial gland a little below the ensiform cartilage galled the epigastric gland. It receives, when present, some of the lymphatics from the lower anterior chest walls and upper part of the abdomen. The deep parietal glands are:—(1) The internal mammary, sternal, or anterior intercostal; and (2) the intercostal or posterior intercostal. (1) The internal mammary, sternal, or anterior intercostal glands lie along the course of the internal mammary artery behind the costal cartilages of the true Fig. 399a.—Diagram of the Superficial and Deep Lymphatic Vessels and Glands of the Upper Extremity including the Superficial Lymphatic Vessels of the Back and Chest. (After Drawing by Dr. Francis 11. Sherwood.) ribs. There is usually one gland corresponding to each intercostal space. These glands receive the lymphatics from the anterior part of the intercostal spaces, the lymphatics ascending with'the superior epigastric artery from the abdominal walls, the lymphatics accompanying the musculo-phrenic artery from the diaphragm and lower intercostal spaces, and the lymphatics from the inner portion of the mammary gland. The efferent vessels from the uppermost glands join the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts respectively, but some of the efferent vessels of the lower glands join the anterior mediastinal glands. (2) The intercostal or posterior intercostal lymphatic glands lie in the pos- terior end of each intercostal space about the level of the heads of the ribs. They receive the lymphatics accompanying the intercostal vessels from the posterior parts of the intercostal spaces, and the lymphatics from the deep muscles of the back, and from the spinal canal. The lowermost also receive some of the lymphatics from the diaphragm. On the left side their efferent vessels open into the thoracic duct. On the right side the efferent vessels from the lower glands also join the thoracic duct, but the vessels from the upper glands may join the efferent vessels from the bronchial glands (the bronchio-mediastinal trunk) and open into the right lym- phatic duct. 42