1049 THE UTERUS of the latter passage. In the human subject it is sometimes found in the form of a small muscular cord, or epithelial canal, near the cervix uteri or upper part of the vagina. According to some anatomists, its lower end is occasionally found as a little tube opening into the side of the vulva near the urinary meatus, but it is doubtful whether the tube in question is more than a mucous duct, (c) The par- ovarium, or paroophoron, a few scattered, imperfectly developed tubules in the neighbourhood of the epoophoron, also representing traces of the Wolffian body. They are usually seen as small whitish or yellowish grains in the infant, but are rarely demonstrable in the adult, (d) The hydatid of Morgagni, a long pedicu- lated vesicle of the size of a millet seed or pea, occasionally dependent from the fimbria? of the tubes, is believed to be a relic of the Wolffian body, (e) Small pedunculated cysts often found on the posterior layer of the broad ligament and derived from the parovarium. (5) The uterine, ovarian, and funicular vessels, anastomosing near the angle of the uterus; and the uterine plexus of nerves. (6) Fig. 640.—Diagrammatic Section of the Broad Ligament, peritoneum reflected over summit of ligament OVARY POSTERIOR SURFACE URETER VESSELS unstriped ic baud) Base of ligament A quantity of loose adipose cellular tissue lying between the muscular and other structures and the serous membrane, and in continuity with the subperitoneal fascia of the pelvis. (7) Involuntary muscular fibres passing from the obturator fascia to become attached to the sides of the uterus and vagina, ensheathing the vessels and serving as a support to the uterus. They may be compared with the fibro-muscular subperitoneal bands supporting the third stage of the duodenum, the transverse colon and small intestines, and are essentially sustentacular in rela- tion to the viscera and to their vessels and nerves. The posterior peritoneal or recto-uterine ligaments are two serous folds which run backwards from the intraperitoneal portion of the cervix uteri and vagina to become continuous with the peritoneal investment of the second stage of the rectum. They form the lateral boundaries of the pouch of Douglas, and between their layers lie muscular utero-sacral ligaments, comparable to the expansion in the broad ligaments, with loose connective tissue and a number of anastomosing branches of the uterine and hsernorrhoidal vessels. 4