POSTERIOR AURICULAR—TEMPORAL 491 wards to the stapedius muscle; (d) tympanic, which anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, forming with it in the foetus a vascular circle around the membrana tympani; (>) vestibular, to the vestibule and semicircular canals; and (/) terminal, a small twig Avhich enters the hiatus Fallopii with the great superficial petrosal nerve, and anastomoses with the petrosal branch of the large middle meningeal artery. (4) The anterior terminal or auricular branch passes upwards behind the ear and beneath the retrahens aurem, supplying the back of the pinna and neighbour- ing integuments. It anastomoses with the posterior branch of the superficial tem- poral artery. The branches to the pinna not only supply the back of that structure, but some perforate the cartilage, and others turn over its free margin to supply the front surface; there they anastomose with the anterior auricular branches from the temporal. (5 ) The posterior terminal, or mastoid or occipital branch, passes upwards and backwards, crossing the aponeurotic insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It gives a branch to the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with the occipital artery. 7. THE TEMPORAL ARTERY The temporal artery, or superficial temporal artery—the smaller of the two terminal divisions of the external carotid, though apparently the direct continuation of that vessel—arises opposite the neck of the lower jaw and, under cover of the parotid gland, passes upwards in the interval between the condyle and the external auditory meatus to the zygoma, lying on the capsule of the joint. Thence it ascends over the posterior root of that process and the temporal aponeurosis for about an inch and a half to two inches (4 cm.), and there divides into an anterior and a pos- terior branch. It is surrounded by a dense plexus of sympathetic nerves, and is accompanied by the auriculo-temporal nerve, which lies beneath and generally a little behind it. It is crossed by the temporo-facial division of the facial nerve, and by the attrahens aurem muscle. As it crosses the zygoma it can be readily felt pulsating immediately in front of the ear, and in this situation can be compressed against the bone. It is here quite superficial, being merely covered by the integu- ments and a delicate prolongation from the cervical fascia. Branches of the Temporal Artery The branches of the temporal artery are:—(1) The parotid; (2) the articular; (3) the masseteric; (4) the auricular, or anterior auricular; (5 ) the transverse facial; (6) the middle temporal; (7) the orbital; (8) the anterior terminal; (9) the posterior terminal. (1) The parotid branches are small twigs given off in the substance of the parotid gland to that structure. (2) The articular branches supply the temporo-maxillary joint. (3) The masseteric are one or two small branches to the masseter muscle. (4) The auricular or anterior auricular branches supply the tragus, the pinna, and the lobule of the ear, and to some extent the external auditory meatus. (5) The transverse facial is the largest branch of the temporal. It sometimes arises from the external carotid as a common trunk with the temporal. It is at first deeply seated in the substance of the parotid gland, but, soon emerging from under that part of the gland known as the socia parotidis, courses transversely across the masseter muscle about a finger's breadth below the zygoma. Steno's duct runs below it, and the infraorbital branches of the facial nerve above it, It supplies the parotid gland, the masseter muscle, and the skin of the face, and anastomoses with the infraorbital, the buccal, and the facial arteries. (6) The middle temporal branch, or middle deep temporal artery (fig. 336), arises just above the zygoma, and, perforating the temporal aponeurosis and temporal muscle, ascends on the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and anastomoses with the posterior deep temporal artery. (7) The orbital or zygomatico-orbital branch (fig. 336), as it is sometimes