1088 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY an inch above the supraorbital margin; next, crossing the temporal crest about half an inch above the external angular process, it passes not quite horizontally, but descending slightly to a point in the temporal fossa just below the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid (pterion), an inch behind the external angular process. From this point the line of the level of the brain, now convex forwards and corre- sponding to the anterior extremity of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, would dip down, still within the great wing of the sphenoid, to about the centre of the zygoma. Thence the line would travel along the upper border of this process about a quarter of an inch above the roof of the external auditory meatus, and thence just above the base of the mastoid and the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, and so along the superior curved line, and corresponding to that of the tentorium and horizontal part of the lateral sinus, to the external occipital protuberance. The upper margin of each hemisphere would be represented by a line drawn from just below the glabella, sufficiently to one side of the middle line to allow for the falx and superior longitudinal sinus, to one immediately above the superior external occipital protuberance and inion (p. 1091). B. Relation of the chief fissures and convolutions to the skull. Local- ization of the chief sulci and convolutions. These headings will be taken together. It will be well to first indicate the position of the chief sutures which mark off the parietal bone, under which lies that part of the brain which is most impor- tant to the surgeon—the motor area. The upper limit of the bone will be indicated by the line already spoken of as giving the upper margin of the hemisphere—the sagittal line, or suture (p. 1091). The anterior limit of the parietal bone, formed by the coronal suture, may be traced thus: The point where it leaves the sagittal suture (the bregma) will be found by drawing a line from a point just in front of the external auditory meatus (the preauricular point ) (p. 1091, figs. 659 and 665) straight upwards on to the vertex; from this point a line drawn downwards and forwards to the middle of the zygomatic arch would indicate that of the coronal suture. Under this suture lie the posterior extremities of the three lateral frontal convolutions; for the frontal lobe lies not only under the frontal bone, but extends backwards under the anterior part of the parietal, the fissure of Rolando, which separates the frontal from the parietal lobe, lying from one and a half to two inches behind the coronal suture. The squamoso-parietal suture, which marks the lower border of the anterior two-thirds of the parietal bone, is not so easy to define, owing to the irregularity and variations of its curve. Its highest point is usually one and three-quarter inches above the zygoma. The lambdoid suture, which forms the posterior boundary of the parietal bone, will be marked out by a line which starts from a point (lambda) two and three-quarter inches above the external occipital protuberance, and runs downwards and forwards to a point on a level with the zygoma, one and three-quarter inches behind the meatus. The position of the chief sulci will now be given: Sylvian fissure (figs. 664 and 665).—The point of appearance of this, on the outer side of the brain, practically corresponds to the pterion (fig. 659)—a point which lies in the temporal fossa, about an inch and a half behind the external an- gular process and about the same distance above the zygoma. From this point the Sylvian fissure, which here separates the frontal and parietal from the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, runs backwards and upwards, ascending gently, at first in the line of the squamo-parietal suture, then crossing this suture about its centre, and thence, ascending more rapidly, it climbs up to the temporal ridge, to end tbree-quarters of an inch below the parietal eminence. Its termination is surrounded by the supra- marginal convolution, to which the parietal eminence corresponds with sufficient accuracy. Such being the surface-marking of the chief or posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius (s3, fig. 664), it remains to indicate briefly the two shorter limbs which bound the inferior frontal convolution, which, on the left side, contains the centre for speech (Broca's convolution). Of these, the anterior hori- zontal (s1, fig. 664) runs forwards across the termination of the coronal, just above the line of the spheno-parietal suture. The ascending limb (s2, fig.