1062 URINARY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS here the two investing fasciae become continuous with each other). The anterior border crosses the side of the prostate, and is connected with the corresponding part of the opposite muscle by fibrous and smooth muscular tissue, which passes between the prostate and rectum. The posterior border is separated from the ante- rior margin of the coccygeus by an indistinct cellular interspace. In the female the anterior fibres of insertion are connected with the side of the vagina, interlacing with the longitudinal fibres of its muscular tissue without be- coming actually inserted into the passage. The levator ani is supplied by twigs of the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, and receives also branches from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves. Action.—The special action from which the muscle derives its name has been questioned by Rudinger, who believes that its essential function is to compress the rectum. A study of the direction of the fibres, however, leaves little doubt that the result of the contraction of the muscle as a whole, and in association with its fellow, is to draw forwards the coccyx and elevate the pelvic floor and viscera, and thus lessen the long diameter of the abdomino-pelvic cavity and aid in the com- pression of the abdominal and pelvic viscera. Its action as a compressor of the rectum is probably unimportant, but it is possible that it exercises some influence upon the circulation in the prostatic plexus and in the large pelvic veins which occupy the recess between the muscle and the viscera, and may also assist in the expulsion of the prostatic secretion by direct lateral compression of the organ. In the female it may constrict the lower end of the vagina, where the passage lies between the free borders of the two muscles. The coccygeus is a thin and rather unimportant plane of muscular fibres, supported by and blending intimately with the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. It arises from the inner surface of the ischial spine above the levator ani, and passes backwards and inwards, expanding to become inserted into the sides of the coccyx, the lateral sacro-coccygeal ligament, and the last two pieces of the sacrum. Its visceral surface looks almost directly forwards and is covered by a continuation of the recto-vesical fascia. Its parietal surface is in contact with the lesser sacro-sciatic