1106 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY Four layers must be remembered: (i) Superficial, or subcutaneous; (ii) sterno-clavicular; (in) tracheal; (iv) prevertebral. These should first be traced horizontally, (i) Superficial, or subcutaneous. This starts from the ligamentum nucha?, encases the trapezius, forms the roof of the posterior triangle, where it is perforated by branches of the superficial cervical nerves and the external jugular vein. Passing on, it encloses the sterno-mastoid; and, passing over the anterior triangle, it meets its fellow in the middle line. Thin behind, it is thickened anteriorly, where it is united to the next layer. Behind this thickened union lie the anterior jugular veins, (ii) Sterno-clavicular. This is best marked below. In the middle line it meets its fellow, and blends with No. i. here also. Passing outwards, it encases the depressors of the hyoid bone, finally blending with No. i. at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. (iii) Tracheal. This lies under the depressors of the hyoid, over the trachea, also encasing the thyroid gland. Farther out, it forms the carotid sheath, and, blending with No. iv. over the anterior scalene, is thus brought into continuity with Nos. i. and ii. also, (iv) Prevertebral. This layer passes over the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. The above layers should also be traced vertically, with especial reference to Fig. 679.—Diagram of the Arrangement of the Deep Cervical Fascia, the Section passing through the Clavicle. (Tillaux.) Superficial layer Omo-hyoid CLAVICLE their relations at the level of the top of the sternum and the clavicle, (a) At the level of the top of the sternum, (i) Superficial, passes over the sternum, (ii) Sterno-clavicular; this, descending in front of the depressor muscles, divides just below the thyroid cartilage into two layers, which are attached to the front and back of the sternum. Between these lie some fat and a small gland, (iii) Tra- cheal; this passes down over the trachea into the thorax (middle mediastinum). As it descends, it encases the left innominate vein, and ends by blending with tbe fibrous layer of the pericardium. Mr. Hilton suggested that the attachment of this fascia above, and that of the central tendon of the diaphragm below, to the peri- cardium served to keep this sac duly stretched, and so prevented any pressure of the lungs upon the heart, (iv) Prevertebral; this, descending behind the oesoph- agus, dips into the posterior mediastinum. (/S) At the level of the clavicle. Only two of the above layers are met with so far outwards as this—(i) Subcuta- neous, which passes over the clavicle; (ii) sterno-clavicular, which, having encased the omo-hyoid, passes behind the clavicle, blends with the sheath of the subclavius, and gives a sheath to the subclavian vein. That to the artery is derived from No. iii. at the scalenus anticus.