THE MUSCLES 414 to a transverse process, e.g. the mastoid process; and the transverso-spinales, which run upwards and inwards from transverse process to spine. The action of these muscles will be easily ascertained by observing to which class they belong. The spinales will simply extend, while the transversales will produce lateral flexion as well as extension. The oblique, in addition to extension and lateral flexion, will also produce rotation wherever the ligaments and processes of the vertebrae permit of this movement. Fourth Layer The fourth layer of the muscles of the back consists of two muscles, which are closely connected with each other, and belong to the spino-transversalis class of the oblique division. 1 and 2. SPLENITIS The splenius (fig. 305)—named from oitXyviov a bandage or compress, probably on account of the way in which it crosses over and binds down the complexus and other muscles—is a broad four-sided sheet, divided into two parts at its insertion: the one part being the splenius capitis, and the other the splenius colli. (1) Splenius Capitis Origin.—(1) The lower two-thirds of the ligamentum nucha;; (2) the spines of the seventh cervical and upper two thoracic vertebras, and the interspinous liga- ments between them. Insertion.—The outer third of the middle nuchal line of the occipital bone, and the back part of the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Structure.—Arising by a short tendinous aponeurosis, the fleshy fibres pass upwards and outwards parallel to each other, and are inserted by short tendinous fibres, except along the anterior border, where the tendon of insertion extends more than an inch (2"5 cm.) downwards. Nerve-supply.—The external branches of the posterior primary divisions of the middle cervical nerves which enter the outer part of the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—(1) To extend the head and neck; (2) to flex them laterally; (3) to rotate the face to the same side. (2) Splenius Colli Origin.—The spines of the third to the sixth thoracic vertebra;, and the inter- spinous ligaments between them. Insertion.—The back of the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of three or four upper cervical vertebrae. Structure.—Of parallel fleshy fibres with a short aponeurotic origin, and inserted by small tendons, the highest of which is the largest. Nerve-supply.—The external branches of the posterior divisions of the lower cervical nerves. Action.— (1) To extend the upper part of the neck; (2) to flex it laterally; (3) to rotate it to the same side. Relations of the splenius.—Superficially, the sterno-mastoid, trapezius, ser- ratus posticus superior, and the levator anguli scapula; which conceals the splenius colli in the posterior triangle of the neck. Beneath lie the complexus, trachelo- mastoid, cervicalis ascendens, and transversalis colli. Variations.—The .number of the thoracic vertebras from which the splenii arise varies. The splenius colli may be absent. The slip mentioned in the variations of the serratus posticus superior may be considered to be a variation of the splenii.