CRANIUM AND SCALP 1085 hairs and sebaceous glands is of much more importance than appears at first. Thus the rooting of the former is so firm that in the case of young women the whole scalp may be torn off by machinery. The sebaceous glands have also grave importance. If in removing them the aponeurosis beneath is pricked or the wound becomes foul, fatal suppuration in the ' dangerous area' beneath may follow. (2) The subcutaneous fat is arranged much as in the palm, viz. tough fatty pellets are enclosed in fibrous partitions, dipping from the skin to the third layer, and thus tying the three layers together. (3) The occipito-frontalis and its aponeurosis have been fully described elsewhere (page 427). (4) The sub- aponeurotic layer of connective tissue. The characters of this layer are quite opposed to those of the layer of connective tissue above the aponeurosis. It is loose, delicate, and fatless. From these result the free mobility of the scalp, the fact that it can be torn away, and (most important of all) the facility with winch inflammatory products can spread in this layer. The perils of pus pent up here are extreme, viz. sloughing of the scalp, or necrosis of the bones, blood-poisoning, and meningitis, from mischief travelling along the emissary and diploic veins (fig. 663). The continuity of the different scalp layers by bands of connective tissue passing from the skin to the occipito-frontalis, and thence along vessels, emissary and others, into the venous sinuses, or by the diploic veins within the skull, will account for scalp inflammation reaching the meninges. Of the vessels of the scalp, the arteries are peculiar in their position. Thus they lie superficial to the deep fascia, which is here represented by the aponeurosis (fig. 663). From this position arises the fact that a large flap of scalp may be sep- arated without perishing, as it carries its own blood-vessels. From the density of the layer in which the vessels run they cannot retract and are difficult to seize, haemorrhage thus being free. Finally, from their position over closely adjacent bone, ill-applied pressure may easily lead to sloughing. The emissary veins.—-These are communications between the sinuses within, and the veins outside the cranium. Most of them are temporary, corresponding to the chief period of growth of the brain. Thus in early life, when the develop- ment of the brain has to be very rapid, owing to the approaching closure of its case, a free escape of blood is most essential, especially in children, with their sudden explosions of laughter and passionate crying. 1. Vein through the foramen caecum, between the anterior extremity of the superior longitudinal sinus and the nasal mucous membrane. The value of this temporary outlet is well seen in the timely profuse epistaxis of children. Other more permanent communications between the skull cavity and nasal mucous mem-