THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 734 arachnoid, but receive funnel-shaped sheaths from it (Key and Retzius). The highest of these processes is at the level of the foramen magnum, and is placed between the hypoglossal nerve and the vertebral artery. In the upper region of the cord one denticulation is regularly placed between the point of exit of each nerve and the next nerve below; lower down the arrangement becomes less regular. It is continuous below with the filum terminale. The linea splendens (Haller) is a conspicuous linear thickening which is placed in the middle line in front of the cord. It presents a silvery white appearance. It is continuous below with the filum terminale. The filum terminale is the continuation of the pia-matral sheath of the cord, and contains but little nervous matter in its interior. It is easily distinguished by its shining white appearance from the nerve-roots among which it lies. It is a slender strand which extends from the pointed lower extremity of the spinal cord to the lower end of the sacrum, or first piece of the coccyx, opposite which it is attached to the bone. As already mentioned, it receives a sheath from the dura mater in the lower part of its course. EXTERNAL CHARACTERS OF THE SPINAL CORD The spinal cord is about eighteen inches in length, and forms (by weight) about two per cent, of the cerebro-spinal axis. It is cylindrical in form, and is slightly compressed from before backwards, so that the transverse exceeds the antero- posterior diameter. It is continuous with the medulla oblongata above at the decussation of the pyramids; below it tapers off into a cone, the conus medul- lars, the apex of which is continued downwards by the filum terminale. It follows the curvatures of the canal in which it is placed, and therefore describes two curves, the upper or cervical convex forwards, and the lower or dorsal concave forwards. In two regions of the cord distinct enlargements are visible: these are called the cervical and the lumbar enlargements. The large size of the nerves which are given off to supply the limbs, forming the brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses, obviously account for these enlargements of the cord. The increase in size is almost entirely produced by an increase in the transverse diameter. The cervical enlargement is more pronounced than the lumbar swelling. It commences at the level of the third cervical vertebra, and ends at the second dorsal. It is at its maximum at the level of the sixth cervical vertebra. The lumbar enlargement commences at the level of the ninth dorsal vertebra, and reaches its maximum at the twelfth dorsal; below this point it rapidly diminishes and passes into the conus medullaris. The spinal cord is bilaterally symmetrical, the two halves being defined by an anterior fissure and a posterior septum. From the antero-lateral and postero- \, lateral aspects of the cord the anterior and posterior nerve-roots emerge, forming two parallel series of fasciculi which extend throughout the entire length of the cord. In the upper cervical region the intrathecal course of the nerve-roots is very short, and the direction taken by the roots is nearly transverse. As the roots are traced downwards in the dorsal and lumbar regions, they become progressively longer, and descend with an increasing degree of obliquity. Hence the lumbar and sacral nerve-roots have a very long intrathecal course. They extend beyond the termination of the cord (which, it will be remembered, ends at the body of the second lumbar vertebra), and lie within the theca in a sheaf somewhat resembling a horse's tail, and therefore called the cauda equina. The cord is divided into definite macroscopical areas by one fissure, two sulci, three septa, and the exits of the anterior nerve-roots. The fissure.—The anterior fissure separates the cord into two lateral areas anteriorly (fig. 440). It is relatively wide and extends from the surface to the anterior white commissure, attaining a depth equal to about one-third the antero- posterior diameter of the cord. It contains a fold of pia mater and branches of the anterior spinal vessels. It is continued above along the anterior surface of the medulla, being partially interrupted by the decussation of the pyramids, and it | terminates at the foramen caecum just below the pons (fig. 441).