526 THE ARTERIES to the bone, is sometimes difficult to secure in the operation for excision of the shoulder-joint. Chief variations.—(a) The anterior circumflex may be given off from the posterior circum- flex ; or (b) from a stem common to it and several other vessels. (See Variations in the Axillary Artery, page 521.) 3. The posterior circumflex artery (fig. 348) arises from the hinder part of the axillary, just below the lower border of the subscapularis muscle. It passes through the quadrilateral space, bounded by the teres minor above, the latissimus dorsi and teres major below, the humerus externally, and the long head of the triceps internally, and, winding round the back of the humerus beneath the deltoid, breaks up under cover of that muscle into a leash of branches, which for the most part enter its substance. The circumflex nerve and two vense comites run with it. It anastomoses with the anterior circumflex, the arteries on the acromion, and the superior profunda artery. In addition to the leash of vessels to the deltoid, it gives off the following small branches:—(a) nutrient, to the greater tuberosity of the humerus; (b) articular, to the back of the shoulder-joint; (c) acromial, to the plexus on the acromion; and (d) muscular, to the teres minor and long and short heads of the triceps. One or more of these branches to the triceps (the tricipital) descend either between the outer and long head, or in the substance of that muscle to anastomose with an ascending branch from the superior profunda artery. It is by means of this anastomosis that the collateral circulation is chiefly carried on when the axillary or the brachial artery is tied between the origins of the posterior circumflex and superior profunda arteries (fig 330). The chief variations in the posterior circumflex are:—(a) It may arise with the subscapular artery as a common trunk. (/>) It may come off from the brachial, and run up behind the teres major to the quadrilateral space, (c) It may give off the inferior profunda, the anterior circum- flex, or the dorsal scapular, (d) It may be double, (e) It may form one of the vessels arising from a trunk common to several branches of the axillary aud brachial arteries. (See Variations in the Axillary Artery, page 521. THE BRACHIAL ARTERY The brachial artery, the continuation of the axillary, extends from the lower border of the teres major to a little below the centre of the crease at the bend of the elbow, where it divides, opposite the junction of the head with the neck of the radius, into the radial and ulnar arteries. The artery is situated at first inter- nal to the humerus; but as it passes down the arm it gradually gets in front of the bone, and at the bend of the elbow lies midway between the two condyles (fig. 350) . Hence, in controlling haemorrhage, the artery should be compressed out- wards against the bone in its upper third, outwards and backwards in its middle third, and directly backwards in its lower third. Throughout the greater part of its course the artery is superficial, being merely overlapped slightly on its outer side by the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles; but at the bend of the elbow it sinks deeply beneath the semilunar fascia of the biceps into the triangular interval (antecubital space), bounded on either side by the supinator longus and pronator radii teres, and at its bifurcation is more or less under cover of these muscles (fig. 351) . The sheath of the brachial artery is closely incorporated with the fascia covering the biceps muscle, and it is for this reason that in the operation for liga- turing, the vessel is apt to be retracted with the muscle. A line drawn from midway between the folds of the axilla at the outer side of that space to midway between the condyles of the humerus, will indicate its course. It is accompanied by two veins which frequently communicate across the artery.