694 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM pointed in section and is called the rostrum. The rostrum is connected to the lamina cinerea by a thin layer of white substance, the basal white commissure. The portion which intervenes between the splenium and rostrum, and which con- stitutes the greater part of the corpus callosum, is called the body. The under surface of the body is adherent behind to the fornix, and in front to the septum lucidum. In coronal sections (figs. 415 and 423) it can be seen that the under surface is free for some distance, except at its attachment in the middle line to the fornix and septum lucidum. This free portion forms the roof of the lateral ventricles. The upper surface remains free for a shorter distance than the lower, and ends at the floor of the callosal fissure, where the fibres of the corpus callosum enter the substance of the hemisphere. It forms in the transverse direction a gentle curve with the concavity directed upwards. Viewed from above, the corpus callosum is seen to present a transverse striation, this being an indication of the bundles of fibres passing from hemisphere to hemisphere. These transverse striations are crossed superficially by narrow longitudinal bands, the striae longitudinales mediales and the stria? longitudinales laterales or taeniae tectae. The striae longitudinales mediales are placed one on each side of the middle line, and lie very close together, leaving a narrow interval between them which is called the raphe. Traced forwards, they slightly diverge and pass round the genu to the rostrum; here they separate more widely, and pass along the inner margin of the anterior perforated space, under the name of the peduncles of the corpus callosum, and are lost at the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius. Traced backwards each medial stria is found to be continuous at the splenium of the corpus callosum with the fasciola cinerea. This turns round the sfdenium and is con- tinuous beneath it with the fascia dentata. The taeniae tectae, or striae longitudinales laterales, lie on the upper surface of the corpus callosum under cover of the callosal gyrus. They also can be traced backwards round the splenium into continuity with the fasciola cinerea. The medial and lateral striae together represent the free margin of the gray matter on the inner surface of the brain, in the same way that the fascia dentata represents it on the tentorial surface, and they constitute the remains of a degenerated supra- callosal gyrus. The fibres of the corpus callosum after entering the cerebral substance spread out to every part of the hemispheres (with the exception of small portions of the temporal lobes) in the following sets:— The fibres from the genu pass forwards and outwards into the anterior part of the frontal lobe, and then sweep inwards forming the forceps minor. The fibres from the body have the following distribution :—The uppermost fibres pass out- wards and then upwards, and finally curve inwards to the upper and mesial surfaces of the frontal and parietal lobes. The intermediate fibres pass transversely outwards to the same lobes. The lowest fibres form the roof of the lateral ventricle, and are separated from that cavity only by the ependyma and epithelium, and divide into anterior and posterior sets which are differently distributed. The anterior set ends in the opercula. The posterior set forms a layer called the tapetum which follows the descending and posterior cornua of the lateral ventricle, roofing over and bounding these cornua externally. The part which follows the descending cornu is destined for the temporal lobe. The portion which accompanies the posterior cornu passes- to the under part of the occipital lobe. The fibres from the splenium, and from the part which is folded below it, pass backwards and outwards, and then sweep inwards forming the forceps major, the fibres of which pass to the posterior and upper parts of the occipital lobe. Dissection.—Having completed the examination of the corpus callosum and of the mesial surface of the hemisphere, the student should next turn his attention to the lateral ventricles. The remaining fibres of the body of the corpus callosum should be divided a little to the right of the middle line and reflected outwards. This dissection will expose the body and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The posterior and descending cornua should next be exposed by removing their outer walls. The Lateral Ventricles are cavities in the cerebral hemispheres which are continuous with the third ventricle and with one another, through the foramen commune anterius (page 698). They are roofed over, as already described, by the corpus callosum, and are lined throughout by epithelium, which is reflected over the choroid plexuses, and is not continuous with the lining of the third ventricle except at the foramina of Monro. This epithelial lining forms the ventricular wall in