503 ANTERIOR CEREBRAL—MIDDLE CEREBRAL (8) THE ANTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY The anterior cerebral artery (fig. 340)—one of the terminal branches into which the internal carotid divides in the fissure of Sylvius—passes at first forwards and inwards across the anterior perforated space between the olfactory and optic nerves to the longitudinal fissure where it approaches its fellow of the opposite side, and communicates with it by a short transverse trunk, about two lines long, known as the anterior communicating artery. Onwards from this spot it runs side by side with its fellow in the longitudinal fissure round the genu of the corpus callosum; then, turning backwards, it continues along the upper surface of that commissure, and, after giving off large branches to the frontal and parietal lobules, anastomoses with the posterior cerebral artery. The branches of the anterior cerebral are:—(«) Communicating; (b) gan- glionic, or central; (c) commissural; (d) hemispheral, or cortical. («) Communicating.—The anterior communicating is a transverse trunk about two lines in length, connecting the right and left anterior cerebral arteries. It lies immediately in front of the optic commissure across the lamina cinerea. It gives off some of the antero-median branches which pass from the anterior cerebral to the fore end of the caudate nucleus. Sometimes the anterior cerebral arteries, instead of communicating by a transverse trunk, coalesce for a short distance and then again divide. Upon this short .trunk the terminal filaments of the carotid plexus of the sympathetic of either side meet in a small gangliform enlargement known as the ' ganglion of Ribes.' (6) Ganglionic, or central.—The antero-median group, together with the antero-median branches of the anterior communicating, pass through the lamina cinerea and supply the fore end of the caudate nucleus. (c) Commissural.—These supply the corpus callosum. (d) The hemispheral or cortical branches.—(i) The orbital, three or four in number, supply the inferior surface of the first frontal convolution, and give off small twigs to the olfactory bulb, (ii) The margino-frontal arise from the artery as it lies on the corpus callosum, and, after supplying the marginal convolution, pass on to the convex surface of the hemisphere and further supply the first and second frontal convolutions and the upper part of the ascending frontal convolution, (hi) The calloso-marginal supplies the callosal convolution and the upper part of the marginal convolution, (iv) The quadrate is a branch to the convolution of that name. (9) THE MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY The middle cerebral artery (fig. 340)—the larger of the two terminal divisions of the internal carotid—passes obliquely upwards and outwards into the fissure of Sylvius, and opposite the insula or island of Reil divides into its hemispheral or cortical branches. The branches of the middle cerebral are:—(«) Ganglionic, or central; and (6) hemispheral, or cortical. (a) Ganglionic, or central.—(i) The caudate are two or three small branches, which arise from the inner aspect of the artery and pass through the inner part of the floor of the fissure of Sylvius to the head of the caudate nucleus, (ii) The antero-lateral are numerous small arteries, which pass through the anterior perforated space and supply the caudate nucleus (except its head), the internal capsule, and part of the optic thalamus, (iii) The lenticulo-striate, a larger branch of the antero-lateral set, passes through a separate hole in the outer part of the anterior perforated space, runs upwards between the lenticular nucleus (which it supplies) and the external capsule, perforates the internal capsule, and terminates in the caudate nucleus. It has been so frequently found ruptured in apoplexy, that it is called by Charcot the ' artery of cerebral haemor- rhage.' (iv) Sometimes a more or less distinct branch, called lenticulo-optic, is distributed to the outer and hinder portion 'of the lenticular nucleus and the external portion of the thalamus opticus.