1083 CRANIUM AND SCALP that frequent and fatal disease, inflammation of the middle ear :—(A) The upper, or'antrum,' present both in early and late life, horizontal in direction, closely adjacent to and communicating with the tympanum. (B) The lower, or vertical. This group is not developed in early life. A. Mastoid antrum (figs. 660 and 661).—This is a small chamber lying behind the tympanum, into the upper and back part of which (tympanic attic) it opens. Its size varies, especially with age. Present at birth, it reaches its largest size (that of a pea) about the third or fourth year. After this, its size usually diminishes somewhat, owing to the development of the encroaching bone around it. Its roof, the tegmen antri, is merely the backward continuation of the tegmen tympani. The level of this is indicated by the posterior root of the zygoma. 'The level of the floor of the adult skull at the tegmen antri is, on an average, less than one-fourth of an inch above the roof of the external osseous meatus; in children and adolescents, from one-sixteenth to one-eighth of an inch ' (Macewen). The outer wall of the antrum is formed by a plate descending from the squamous bone. This is very thin in early life, but as it develops by deposit from the peri- toneum, the depth of the antrum from the surface increases. Macewen gives the average of the depth as varying from one-eighth to three-fourths of an inch. At the junction of the two parts of the outer wall of the mastoid cells is the masto-squamosal suture, often present at puberty. Through the floor, the antfum communicates Fig. 661.—Sagittal Section through Roof and Floor of Tympanic Cavity. ANTRUM MASTOID PROCESS with the lower or vertical cells of the mastoid. This floor is on a lower level than the opening into the tympanum, and thus drainage of the antrum is difficult, fluid finding its way more readily into the lower cells. Behind the mastoid antrum and cells is the bend of the sigmoid part of the lateral sinus, with its short descend- ing portion (fig. 660). Macewen gives the following guides for this part of the sinus : ' (1) A line drawn from the parieto-squamo-mastoid junction to the tip of the mastoid. (2) In the adult, a vertical line drawn one-half of an inch behind the posterior bony wall of the external auditory meatus, and between the levels of the roof and the floor, will, in the majority of cases, indicate the position of the anterior convexity of the sigmoid sinus.' The same authority gives the following directions for exploring this important vessel : ' An opening in the bone, with its posterior margin touching the line drawn from the parieto-squamo-mastoid junction to the tip of the mastoid, and within the parallels of the roof and floor of the external auditory meatus, will expose the part of the sigmoid sinus most often affected with septic thrombosis.' The sinus lies more superficially than the antrum, being usually one-fourth of an inch, occasionally only one-half of an inch, from the surface. The exact position of the antrum, a little above and behind the external auditory meatus, is represented by Macewen's ' suprameatal triangle.' This is a triangle bounded by the posterior root of the zygoma above, the upper and posterior seg-