632 THE VEINS front of its corresponding artery. The left vein crosses in front of the aorta, just below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. It is covered by the third portion of the duodenum, and receives the left spermatic, or the left ovarian in the female, and usually the left suprarenal, and sometimes the left phrenic. There are rudiments of valves in each vein where it joins the vena cava. Those on the right side, however, are less well marked. (2) The suprarenal veins.—There is usually only one suprarenal vein on each side to return the blood brought to the suprarenal body by the three suprarenal arteries. On the right side the vein opens into the vena cava direct above the opening of the right renal vein. On the left side, it opens into the left renal. Fig. 391.—The Abdominal Aoeta and Inferior Vena Cava. Cystic artery — HEPATIC DUCT CYSTIC DUCT COMMON DUCT Portal vein Gastro-duodenal br. Superior pyloric br. - Hepatic artery Right suprarenal vein Inferior suprarenal artery Renal artery Renal vein Inferior vena cava KIDNEY Right spermatic vein Right spermatic artery Quadratus lumborum muscle Right lumbar artery and left lumbar vein Ureteric branch of spermatic artery /\ Middle sacral vessels LEFT LOBE OF LIVER CESOPHAGUS Left phrenic artery Right phrenic artery Superior suprarenal Gastric artery Inferior suprarenal Splenic artery - left phrenic vein - Left suprarenal vein _ Superior mesenteric artery KIDNEY Ureteric branch of renal Left spermatic vein URETER Left spermatic artery Inferior mesenteric artery Ureteric branch of spermatic Ureteric branch of common iliac Common iliac artery External iliac artery Internal iliac artery (3) The spermatic veins return the blood from the testicle. They begin by the confluence of small branches from the body of the testicle and epididymis, and as they proceed up the spermatic cord, in front of the spermatic artery and vas deferens, become dilated and plexiform, constituting the so-called pampiniform plexus. After passing through the external abdominal ring, the inguinal canal, and the internal abdominal ring, the plexus merges into two veins, which lie one on each side of the spermatic artery. Along with the artery the veins pass up beneath the peritoneum, and on the left side also beneath the sigmoid flexure of the colon, across the psoas muscle and ureter, to end as a single trunk, on the right side in the inferior vena cava, and on the left side in the left renal vein. There are commonly a number of imperfect valves in the spermatic plexus and a