823 DISTRIBUTION OF CUTANEOUS BRANCHES lower and anterior part of the abdominal wall is supplied by the ilio-hypogastric branch of the first lumbar nerve. The cutaneous supply of the lateral aspect of the body is derived from the lateral branches of the anterior primary divisions of the dorsal nerves from the second to the eleventh, and the skin over the posterior aspect of the body is supplied externally by the posterior divisions of the lateral branches of the dorsal nerves from the third to the eleventh, and internally by the posterior primary divisions of the dorsal nerves (fig. 469b), in the upper half by their internal branches and in the lower half principally by their external branches. The Cutaneous Areas of the Upper Limb The skin over the upper third of the deltoid muscle is supplied by the supra- acromial and supraclavicular branches of the cervical plexus, which contain fila- ments of the third and fourth cervical nerves, and that over the lower two-thirds by the circumflex nerve, which conveys fibres of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves (fig. 469b). The skin over the front of the upper arm is supplied externally by the circum- flex nerve above and by the superior external cutaneous branch of the musculo- spiral nerve below; the former contains filaments of both the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, and the latter filaments of the sixth alone. Internally the skin of the upper arm is supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve with filaments of the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves, and by the lesser internal cutaneous and intercosto-humeral nerves which are derived from the first and second dorsal nerves. The back of the upper arm is supplied, externally, by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves through the circumflex nerve, and the external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve; mesially by the eighth cervical nerve through the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and internally by the first and second dorsal nerves through the lesser internal cutaneous and intercosto-humeral nerves (fig. 469). The front of the forearm is divided into two areas, an external, which is sup- plied by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves through the musculo-cutaneous branch of the brachial plexus, and an internal, supplied by the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves through the internal cutaneous nerve. On the back of the forearm there are three areas: an external, supplied by filaments of the fifth and sixth cer- vical nerves through the musculo-cutaneous nerve; a middle, which receives fila- ments of the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves through the inferior external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve; and an internal, which receives the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves through the internal cutaneous nerve (fig. 469b). The front of the hand is supplied by the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves and by the first dorsal nerve through the radial branch of the musculo-spiral nerve and through the median and ulnar branches of the brachial plexus. The radial nerve supplies the radial side of the thumb by its palmar cutaneous branch; the remainder of the palm and the palmar aspects of the fingers are supplied by the median and ulnar nerves through their palmar cutaneous and digital branches, the median supplying three and a half digits and the ulnar the remaining one and a half (fig. 469b). The dorsal aspect of the hand is supplied by the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves which reach it through the radial branch of the musculo-spiral nerve and through the median and ulnar nerves. The radial nerve supplies the outer part of the dorsum and the outer three and a half digits, except the lower parts of the index, middle, and half the ring digits which receive twigs from the median nerve, and the ulnar nerve supplies the ulnar half of the dorsum including the inner one and a half digits. The Cutaneous Areas of the Lower Extremity There are six cutaneous areas in the region of the buttock, three upper and three lower. Of the upper areas the external is supplied by the anterior primary divi- sions of the last dorsal and first lumbar nerves through the iliac branches of the