44 THE SKELETON the Grlaserian fissure, wliich is subsequently encroached upon by the growth of the petrosal. As the tympanic plate increases in size it joins the outer wall of the carotid canal and presents a prominent lower edge, known as the vaginal process. The mastoid process becomes distinct about the first year, coincident with the obliteration of the petro-squamous suture. It increases in thickness by deposit from the periosteum. Towards puberty, rarely earlier, the process becomes pneumatic, the air-cells being lined by deli- Fig. 53.—Temporal Bone at the Sixth Year. cate mucous membrane. In old skulls the air-cells may extend into the jugular process of the occipital bone. At birth the mastoid antrum is relatively large and bounded externally by a thin plate of bone belonging to the squamosal. As the mastoid increases in thickness the antrum comes to lie at a greater depth from the surface and becomes relatively smaller. THE PARIETAL The two parietals form a large portion of the vault and sides of the skull; they are interposed between the frontal anteriorly and the occipital posteriorly. Each parietal presents two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. The external surface is convex and smooth: the convexity, best marked in young bones, is greatest near the centre, which is termed the parietal eminence. Crossing the middle of the bone are the two temporal ridges ; the lower is the better marked, and limits the origin of the temporal muscle. The upper ridge is less constant, and gives attach- ment to the temporal fascia. The internal surface is concave and marked with depressions corresponding to the cerebral convolutions. Numerous vertical deep furrows for the branches of the middle meningeal artery radiate from the anterior inferior angle and lower border of the bone. Along the superior margin of the bone there is a groove which, when articulated with the opposite bone, forms a furrow which receives the superior longitudinal sinus. In adult bones numerous deep circular depressions for Pacchionian bodies are found near this groove. The superior border is deeply serrated for the opposite parietal, the union with which forms the sagittal suture. The anterior and posterior borders are deeply serrated: the anterior articulates with the frontal to form the coronal, and the posterior with the squamo-occipital to form the lambdoid sutures. The inferior border is bevelled and overlapped by the squamosal to form the squamous suture. Of the angles, the anterior inferior is prolonged downwards and articulates with the sum- mit of the greater wing of the sphenoid. The posterior inferior angle articulates with the mastoid portion of the petrosal; on its inner surface it has a horizontal groove for lodging a portion of the lateral sinus. The superior angles present noth- ing worthy of note.