903 THE LARYNX The posterior border, thick and rounded, projects above and below into the superior and inferior cornua, and gives partial insertion to the stylo- and palato- pharyngei muscles. The superior cornua project inwards as well as upwards and backwards. To their tips are attached the thyro-hyoid ligaments, and near root of each appears the tubercle at the upper end of the oblique line. The inferior cornua are short, blunt processes. They project inwards as well as downwards and forwards. By means of small oval concave facets (directed downwards as well as inwards) placed on their inner faces, the inferior cornua articulate with the facets on the sides of the cricoid cartilage. They give partial attachment to the inferior constrictors of the pharynx and crico-thyroid muscles in addition to the ligaments of the joint. The CRICOID CARTILAGE is thick and strong, and forms a complete ring around the lower part of the larynx. Behind, it presents a quadrate surface, but narrows Fig. 524.—Side View of the Cartilages of the Larynx. (Modified from Bourgery and Jacob.) rapidly in its anterior half to only one-fourth or one-fifth of its posterior depth. Hence its comparison to a signet ring. It thus possesses an anterior and a posterior portion, and a superior and inferior border, and presents four articular surfaces. The posterior quadrate portion is divided behind by a median vertical ridge which separates two broad and shallow depressions. To this ridge some of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus are attached, and the depressions give origin to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. The anterior portion is narrow and rounded, and gives attachment in front to the crico-thyroid muscles, and more posteriorly to some fibres of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. Between these two halves of the ring, but nearer the lower border, is placed the oval surface (looking upwards and outwards) for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth and lined by mucous membrane.