1006 THE URINARY ORGANS from one-seventh to one-fifth less. In the child the organ is relatively large, but its permanent relation to the body-weight is usually attained at the end of the tenth year of life. It offers for description two surfaces, two extremities, and two borders. The anterior or visceral surface is convex, and looks obliquely forwards and out- wards; the posterior or parietal surface, less convex than' the anterior, looks inwards and backwards; the rounded upper extremity is usually somewhat larger than the lower, and is placed about half an inch nearer to the median sagittal plane of the body. The external border is narrow and convex. The internal border (or surface), looking forwards, inwards, and slightly downwards, is relatively broad, and is fissured vertically in tbe middle third" of 'its length by the hilum. Tbe hilum is a slit-like aperture bounded in front and behind by two rounded lips of variable and unequal thickness. The posterior Up is nearer to the middle line than the anterior, and between the two pass the renal vessels and nerves, tbe duct, and a quantity of fat-bearing connective tissue. The sinus (tig. 609), occupied by the structures just named, is narrowest near its entrance, and about an inch (25 mm.) in depth. Its fundus is pierced by the renal vessels and nerves, and by the uriniferous tubules; and gives attachment to the primary branches ( calices ) of the duct. Investment and fixation.—The entire organ is enveloped and supported by a kind of capsule of fat-bearing connective tissue derived from the parietal layer of the subperitoneal fascia (fig. 608). The adipose element is usually small at birth, but tends to increase about puberty and during adult life. When it is scanty, the subperitoneal investment often appears as a transparent fascial plane, which in renal operations may be mistaken for peritoneum or fascia transversalis; or if the fat be excessively developed over the postei'ior aspect of the organ, it may form a kind of hernial protrusion into the parietal incision. Should the sustentacula* power of the fatty capsule become impaired by atrophy from wasting disease, by the pressure of a pregnant uterus or tight stays, or from any other cause, the phenomenon of movable or wandering kidney may be set up by slight external violence, the organ tending to shift its place as far as the attachment of its vessels to the main trunk will permit. Position and relations.—Tbe kidney is commonly said to lie in the lumbar