757 MANDIBULAR DIVISION OF THE FIFTH NERVE The ANTERIOR PORTION of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve supplies the temporal, masseter, and external pterygoid muscles, and gives off a sensory i branch, the long buccal nerve; the latter is accompanied, in the first part of its j course, by a small strand of motor fibres which leaves it to end in the anterior part ! of the temporal muscle. (1) The temporal nerves, usually two in number, pass between the bone and the upper border of the external pterygoid muscle, and turn upwards around the j infra-temporal crest of the sphenoid bone to end in the deep surface of the temporal j muscle. The posterior of these two nerves may arise in common with the mas- seteric nerve. (2) The masseteric nerve passes between the bone and the external pterygoid ! muscle external to the temporal nerves, and accompanies the masseteric artery through the sigmoid notch of the mandible to be distributed to the masseter. It Fig. 447.—Distribution of the Mandibular Division of the Trigeminal Nerve. (Henle.) may be readily traced through the deeper fibres of the masseter nearly to the anterior border of that muscle. As it emerges from under cover of the external pterygoid it gives a twig to the temporo-mandibular articulation. (3) The nerve to the external pterygoid, after a course of about an eighth of an inch, divides into twigs which enter the deep surface of the two heads of the muscle. It is usually adherent at its origin to the long buccal nerve. (4) The long buccal nerve passes between the two heads of the external ptery- goid muscle, and then turns forwards and emerges from under cover of the temporal ! and masseter muscles at the anterior border of the latter. It runs forwards and communicates with the buccal branch of the facial, being in this situation covered only by the integument and fascia, to which it gives branches; then it pierces the buccinator muscle and ramifies in the mucous membrane lining the cheek, its ter- minal twigs reaching as far forwards as the angle of the mouth. As it emerges