THE BUTTOCKS 1181 maximus, especially behind and below, and in less degree to the other two glutei in front. Under the lower edge of the gluteus maximus the edge of the great sacro- sciatic ligament can be felt on deep pressure. Nerves and vessels.—The following superficial nerves can be marked in over the buttock (fig. 770). Behind the great trochanter, branches of the external cutaneous. Coming down over the crest, the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal (about in a line with the great trochanter), and behind this the lateral branch of the ilio-hypogastric. Two or three offsets of the posterior primary branches of the lumbar nerves cross the hinder part of the iliac crest at the outer margin of the erector spina?. Two or three twigs from the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves pierce the gluteus maximus close to the coccyx and sacrum, and ramify outwards. Finally, over the lower border of the gluteus maximus turn upwards branches of the small sciatic and inferior pudendal and fourth sacral nerves. Great sciatic nerve (figs. 748, 749).—The point of emergence below the gluteus maximus and the track of this nerve will be given by a line drawn from a spot a little internal to the middle of the space between the great trochanter and the tuber ischii to the lower part of the back of the thigh. The inferior pudendal perforates the deep fascia about an inch (25 mm.) in front of the tuber ischii, and turns forwards to supply the genitals. Gluteal artery.—If a line be drawn from the posterior superior spine to the apex of the great trochanter, the limb being slightly flexed and rotated inwards, the point of emergence of the artery from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch will correspond with the junction of the upper and middle third of this line (fig. 746)' (MacCormac). The gluteal nerve emerges immediately below the artery, and sends branches with the deeper portion. Sciatic and pudic arteries.—The limb being rotated inwards, a line is drawn from the posterior superior spine to the outer part of the tuber ischii. The point of exit of the above arteries will correspond to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of this line (MacCormac).