602 THE VEINS THE veins, like the arteries, are divided into the pulmonary and the systemic. The pulmonary return the aerated hlood from the lungs to the left side of the heart, and are the only veins that contain arterial blood. The sys- temic veins bring back to the right side of the heart the impure venous blood from the rest of the body. All the systemic veins terminate ultimately either in the superior or inferior vena cava, except the cardiac veins, which return the blood from the heart's substance, and open directly into the right auricle. The veins from the stomach and intestines, the spleen, and the pancreas, before opening into the inferior vena cava, are collected into a large trunk vein called the portal vein, which breaks up, like an artery, into capillaries in the substance of the liver. From these capillaries the blood is again collected by the hepatic veins, which finally open, as two or more large-sized vessels, into the inferior vena cava. The veins are described under the heads of:—1. The veins of the thorax; 2. the veins of the head and neck; 3. the veins of the spine; 4. the veins of the abdomen; 5. the veins of the upper extremity; and 6. the veins of the lower extremity. 1. THE VEINS OF THE THORAX The veins of the thorax are: the pulmonary, which carry the blood from the lung to the left side of the heart; and the superior vena cava and its tributaries, which return the venous blood from the head and neck, the upper extremities, and the walls of the thorax, to the right side of the heart. The inferior vena cava, which brings back the blood from the abdomen and pelvis and lower extremities, is described with the veins of the abdomen, in which cavity it lies throughout by far the greater part of its course, somewhat less than half an inch of its upper end only being situated in the thorax. The pulmonary veins are contained in the middle mediastinum. The superior vena cava and the right and left innominate veins course through the superior mediastinum. The azygos veins, the larger of which opens into the superior vena cava, lie on either side of the thoracic vertebra in the posterior mediastinum. They receive the intercostal, the bronchial, and the oesophageal veins. THE PULMONARY VEINS The pulmonary veins (fig. 320) return the aerated blood from the lungs to the heart. They are usually four in number, two right and two left. Occasionally, however, there are three pulmonary veins on the right side, the result of the vein