GLUTEUS MAXIMUS 351 Structure.—The origin is by fleshy and tendinous fibres intermingled. The fibres then run parallel to one another to a tendinous insertion between the iliacus and the adductor brevis. The direction of the surfaces changes so that that which looks forwards above is directed outwards below. Nerve-supply.—From the lumbar plexus (through the third and fourth lumbar nerves), by a branch of the anterior crural nerve, which, after passing behind the femoral artery and vein, enters the muscle about the middle of its external border. When there is an accessory obturator nerve, it passes over the brim of the pelvis to supply this muscle at the upper part of its anterior surface. Occasionally the muscle receives a branch upon its deep surface from the anterior division of the obturator nerve. Action.—To flex and at the same time adduet the thigh; as, for example, in crossing the legs, when one thigh is brought forwards and inwards to place it in front of the other thigh. It is also a slight external rotator. Its predominant action is that of flexion, as is indicated by the fact that it receives the same nerve- supply as the sartorius and ilio-psoas. The tendency which it has to adduet during flexion is counteracted by the slight abduction produced by the sartorius. They will together produce a slight external rotation, as may be observed during the advance of the leg in walking. Relations.— In front, the pubic portion of the fascia lata, the femoral and profunda vessels, and at its insertion the psoas and iliacus muscles; behind, the adductor brevis, obturator externus, hip-joint, and obturator nerve. Variations.—Sometimes a slight blending of the lower fibres of the pectiueus with the adductor lougus has been observed. THE GLUTEAL MUSCLES These are arranged in three layers. First Layer The first layer consists of two muscles—the gluteus maximus and the tensor vaginae femoris. 1. GLUTEUS MAXIMUS The gluteus maximus (figs. 291 and 303)—named from its great size and from the region which it occupies (yAouros =. the buttock)—is a very thick and strong rhomboidal sheet. Origin.—(1) The posterior fifth of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and the outer surface of the ilium between the outer lip of the crest and the superior gluteal line; (2) the lumbar aponeurosis between the posterior superior spine of the ilium and the side of the sacrum; (3) the lateral portion of the posterior surface of the two last pieces of the sacrum; (4) the side of the coccyx; (5) the back of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; (6) in front of its attachment to the ilium a few of its fibres arise from the strong jDrocess of the fascia lata which invests the gluteus medius. Insertion.—(1) The upper part of the strong aponeurosis of the fascia lata, called the Uio-tibial band; (2) the gluteal ridge of the femur which leads from the lower border of the greater trochanter to the linea aspera; (3) the adjacent part of the tendinous origin of the vastus externus. Structure.—Its origin is almost entirely fleshy, a few tendinous fibres only being intermingled between the coarse bundles which run parallel to one another downwards and outwards to the aponeurosis of insertion. The upper half of this aponeurosis passes over the outer surface of the great trochanter to be attached to the upper part of the ilio-tibial band. Lower down the insertion consists of short