SOLEUS upon its anterior aspect and sides it receives fleshy fibres nearly as far down as the back of the ankle-joint. The tendo Achillis is a strong rounded band of tendon about three-quarters of an inch (2 cm.) from side to side, and about half as much from before backwards; it is narrowest at the level of the ankle-joint, and expands slightly before it is inserted into the lower part of the posterior surface of the cal- caneum. A bursa intervenes between the tendon and the smooth upper part of the posterior surface of this bone. Nerve-supply.—From the internal popliteal division of the great sciatic nerve by sural branches which enter the upper half of the muscle upon the posterior surface; and lower down by a branch from the posterior tibial nerve, which enters the anterior surface of the muscle. Action.—The chief action of the combined gastrocnemius and soleus is to extend the ankle-joint. It is an extremely powerful muscle, as it acts with con- siderable mechanical disadvantage. The lever by means of which it acts may be best described as one of the first order (see page 285); the lever being that part of the foot which lies between the heel and the heads of the metatarsal bones, the ankle being the fulcrum; a pressure equal to the weight of the body being exerted by the ground at the anterior extremity of the lever; and the arm, at the end of which the muscle acts, being the comparatively short distance between the back of the heel and the centre of the ankle-joint. When the ankle-joint has been com- pletely extended, this muscle will tend to adduct slightly the foot, and to invert the sole, this movement being carried out in the joint between the astragalus and calcaneum. Besides extending the ankle, the gastrocnemius will assist in flexing the knee-joint. The chief object, however, which appears to be gained by the femoral attachment of this muscle is the addition to the rapidity of extension of the foot. Like some of the other long muscles which pass over two joints, the gastrocnemius, if it were an inextensible ligament, would cause extension of the ankle as soon as the knee was straightened by means of the great quadriceps muscle. Seeing, however, that during the contraction of the quadriceps the gas- trocnemius is at the same time acting, it follows that the rapidity and amount of the extension of the ankle-joint is almost doubled. By these means we obtain that rapid and powerful contraction which gives the spring to the body in leaping and running. We may see also how enormously strong the tendo Achillis must be, as it has not only to bear the contraction of the gastrocnemius and soleus, but the additional strain thrown upon it by the simultaneous action of the quadriceps extensor of the knee. The soleus will assist in the extension of the ankle, and will even be able to perform this movement somewhat feebly by itself, when in extreme flexion of the knee-joint the gastrocnemius is so relaxed as to be almost powerless. It is much stronger than the gastrocnemius, as may be inferred from the enormous number of short fibres of which it is formed. At the same time, however, as it only passes over the ankle and calcaneo-astragaloid joints, the range of its move- ments is very short. Relations.—The soleus is in relation behind with the gastrocnemius and plan- taris; in front, with the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, and tibialis posticus, and with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Variations.—A second soleus is sometimes found beneath the normal muscle, and more or less separate from it. It is usually inserted into the calcaneum or internal annular ligament. Third Layer The third layer is separated from the suj^erficial layers by an aponeurosis called the deep tibial fascia. This is attached to the inner border of the tibia internally, and externally to the outer border of the flexor surface of the fibula, and the posterior of the two external intermuscular septa. It is thin above, but below it is strengthened by transverse fibres, and becomes much thicker. At the ankle it blends with the deep fascia of the leg and the external and internal annular ligaments. The third layer consists of two muscles—the flexor longus digitorum and the flexor longus hallucis.