635 PORTAL of the lesser omentum in company with the hepatic artery and the hepatic duct, it enters the transverse or portal fissure of the liver, and there divides into a right and a left branch. In this course it passes upwards and to the right, having both the hepatic artery and the common bile duct in front, the former to the left, the latter to the right. It is surrounded by branches of the hepatic plexus of the sym- pathetic nerve, and by numerous lymphatic vessels and some glands. The con- nective tissue sheath enclosing these structures is called the capsule of Glisson. Just before it divides it is somewhat dilated, the dilated portion being called the sinus of the portal vein. The division into right and left branches takes place towards the right end of the transverse fissure of the liver. The right branch is shorter and thicker than the left, and supplies the right lobe of the liver and a Fig. 392.—The Veins of the Stomach and the Portal Vein. (From a dissection by W. J. Walsham.) Cystic vein Eight branch of portal vein Portal vein Hepatic artery Continuation of hepatic artery Gaslro-dnoilenal branch of hepatic artery Pyloric vein Right gastro- epiploic vein Omental veins Left branch of portal vein Left gastro- epiploic vein branch to the quadrate lobe. The left branch is longer and smaller than the right, and supplies the left lobe, and gives a branch to the Spigelian and quadrate lobes. It is joined, as it crosses the longitudinal fissure, by a fibrous cord, known as the round ligament of the liver or the obliterated umbilical vein, and posteriorly by a second fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus venosus. In the foetus the blood passes through the umbilical vein and ductus venosus directly into the vena cava, a very small quantity only turning to the right and left into the branches of the portal vein. Before birth, the blood in that part of the left branch of the portal vein which lies between the trunk of the vena porta and the umbilical vein travels from left to right; but after birth, as the portal circulation becomes freely esta- blished and the umbilical vein and ductus venosus are obliterated, in the opposite direction, i. e. from right to left.