904 THE ORGANS OF VOICE The superior border bounds the quadrate plate above, and then passes obliquely downwards and forwards. An oval, convex, obliquely placed articular surface, upon which moves the arytenoid cartilage, separates these two portions of the upper border on each side. The oblique half gives attachment to the crico-thyroid membrane, and, laterally and external to this, to the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle. The inferior border—horizontal, and often deeply notched at the sides—is attached to the first ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. The arytenoid cartilages are irregular, three-sided pyramids, which articulate Fig. 525.—Front View of the Cricoid and Arytenoid Cartilages. (Modified from Bourgery and Jacob.) Thyro-arytenoideus muscle Insertion of crico-thyroid muscle ANTERIOR SURFACE OF ARYTENOID CARTILAGE Cut edge of capsular ligament Lateral erieo-arytenoid muscle MUSCULAR EXTERNAL ANGLE OF ARYTENOID CARTILAGE Lateral crico-arytenoid muscle CRICOID CARTILAGE by their bases with the oblique facets on the superior border of the cricoid cartilage, and support upon their apices the cornicula laryngis. The space between them in certain animals has been likened to the mouth of a pitcher, and hence their name. Each cartilage presents three surfaces, divided by three borders, with a base, apex, and angles. The surfaces.—The posterior is concave, smooth, and gives attachment to the arytenoid muscle. The anterior is irregular and convex. It gives attachment by a small tubercle to the false vocal cord, and also to the thyro-arytenoid muscle. Fig. 526.—Back View of the Cricoid and Arytenoid Cartilages. (Modified from Bourgery and Jacob.) POSTERIOR SURFACE OF ARYTENOID MUSCULAR EXTERNAL ANGLE Crico-arytenoid joint POSTERIOR SURFACE OF CRICOID CARTILAGE Lougitudinal fibres of cesophagus CORNICULUM LARYNGIS Aryteuoideus muscle Crico-arytenoideus posticus Crico-aryteuoideus posticus muscle ARTICULAR SURFACE FOR INFERIOR CORNU OF THYROID CARTILAGE The internal is almost flat, smooth, and narrow, and covered by mucous membrane. The base is obliquely hollowed, and presents internally the facet for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. The angles.—The anterior is prolonged for the attachment of the true vocal cord. It is known as the vocal process, and with the aid of the laryngoscope is easily seen during life. The external or muscular is thick and blunt, and gives attachment in front to the lateral crico-arytenoid, and behind to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle.