THE TARSAL JOINTS 273 masses of ligamentous tissue which connect the middle cuneiform with the internal and external cuneiform bones, and the external cuneiform with the cuboid; occu- pying all the non-articular portions of the apposed surfaces of the bones. The ligaments extend the whole vertical depth between the middle cuneiform and the external, and the external cuneiform and the cuboid, and blend with the dorsal and plantar ligaments; they are situated in front of the articular facets, and com- pletely shut off the synovial cavity behind from that in front. The ligament between the internal and middle cuneiform bones occupies the inferior and anterior two-thirds of the apposed surfaces, and does not generally extend high enough to separate the synovial cavity of the anterior tarsal joint from that of the second and third metatarsal and cuneiform bones. If it does extend to the dorsal surface, it divides the facets completely from one another, making a seventh synovial sac in the foot. The synovial cavity will be described later on. The arterial supply is from the metatarsal and plantar arteries. The nerves are derived from the anterior tibial, and internal and external plantar. The movement permitted in these joints is very limited, and exists only for the purpose of adding to the general pliancy and elasticity of the tarsus without allowing any sensible alteration in the position of the different parts of the foot, as the medio-tarsal and calcaneo-astragaloid joints do. It is simply a gliding motion, and either deepens or widens the transverse arch. The external cuneiform being wedged in between the others is less movable, and so forms a pivot upon which the rest can move. The movement is more produced by the weight of the body than by direct muscular action; and of the muscles attached to this part of the tarsus, all deepen the arch save the tibialis anticus, which pulls the internal cunei- form up, and so tends to widen it. (c) The Medio-tarsal or Transverse Tarsal Joints The articulations of the anterior and posterior portions of the tarsus, although in the same transverse line, consist of two separate joints, viz. (i) an inner, the astragalo-scaphoid, which communicates with the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation; and (ii) an outer, the calcaneo-cuboid, which is complete in itself. The movements of the anterior upon the posterior portions of the foot take place at these joints simultaneously. It will be most convenient to deal with the joints separately as regards the ligaments; while the arteries, nerves, and move- ments will be considered together. (i) The Astragalo-scaphoid Articulation Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Enarthrodia. This is the only ball-and-socket joint in the tarsus. It communicates with the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation, and two of the ligaments which close it in do not touch the astragalus, but pass from the calcaneum to the scaphoid. The uniting ligaments are:— External calcaneo-scaphoid. Inferior calcaneo-scaphoid. Astragalo-scaphoid. The external calcaneo-scaphoid has been already described (page 283). The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament (figs. 256 and 257) is an exceed- ingly dense thick plate of fibro-elastic tissue. It extends from the sustentaculum tali and the under surface of the calcaneum in front of a ridge curving outwards to the anterior tubercle of that bone, to the whole width of the under surface of the I scaphoid, and also to the inner surface of the scaphoid behind the tubercle. Internally it is blended with the anterior portion of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, and externally with the lower border of the external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. It is thickest along the inner border. Its upper surface loses the well- 18