THE ARTICULATIONS 188 (c) The Ligaments uniting the Occiput and Axis The following ligaments unite bones not in contact, and are to be seen from the interior of the canal after removing the posterior arches of axis and atlas and posterior ring of the foramen magnum:— 1. The occipito-cervical. 3. Two lateral odontoid or check. 2. The crucial. 4. The central odontoid or suspensory. The occipito-cervical or cervico-basilar ligament (figs. 196, 197, and 198) consists of a very strong band of fibres, connected below to the upper part of the body of the third vertebra and lower part of the body of the axis as far as the root of the odontoid process. It is narrow below, but widens out as it ascends, to be Fig. 197.—The Superficial Layee of the Posterior Common Vertebral Ligament has been removed to show its deep or short fibres. these deep fibres form the Occipito-cervical Ligament. fastened to the basilar groove of the occiput. Laterally, it is connected with the accessory fibres of the atlanto-axoidean capsule. It is really only the upward pro- longation of the deep stratum of the posterior common ligament, the superficial fibres of which run on to the occipital bone without touching the axis, thus giving rise to two strata. It is in relation in front with the crucial ligament. The crucial ligament has been already described (see page 186). The lateral occipito-odontoid or check ligaments (figs. 195 and 198) are two strong rounded cords, which extend from the sides of the apex of the odontoid process, transversely outwards to the inner edge of the anterior portion of the occipital condyles. They are to be seen immediately above the upper border of the transverse ligament, which they cross obliquely owing to its forward curve at its attachments to the atlas. Some of their fibres occasionally run across the middle line from one check ligament to the other. At the odontoid process they are connected with the atlanto-odontoid capsule, and at the condyles they strengthen the occipito-atlantal capsular ligaments. The central odontoid or suspensory ligament (figs. 195 and 198) consists of