675 MENINGES The Tentorium Cerebelli occupies the interval between the cerebrum and cerebellum. It presents for examination an upper surface, a lower surface, a free or concave border, and an attached or convex border. The upper surface is in contact with the occipital and temporal lobes of the cerebrum, and is strongly convex upwards, forming a roof-like structure, to the ridge of which the base of the falx cerebri is attached. This ridge also slopes upwards and forwards, so that its highest point is situated at the free border. The under surface is in apposi- tion to the cerebellum. The free border bounds an opening usually described as oval, but which is more properly triangular with curved sides, the apex of the tri- angle being turned backwards, and corresponding to the point where the veins of Galen enter the straight sinus. This opening transmits the crura cerebri and the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, these parts forming an isthmus connecting the masses of brain substance above and below the tentorium; the basilar artery and the third pair of cranial nerves also pass upwards through it. Followed Fig. 405.—The Cranium opened to show the Falx Cerebri, the Tentorium Cerebelli, and the places where the cranial nerves pierce the dura mater. (sappey.) FO UE Til NEEI 'E THIRD NEE VE Ligamentum dentieulaturn NERVE Inferior petrosal sinus forwards, the free border is seen to be attached to the anterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone. The attached border follows the lateral sinus along the occipital and parietal bones, and then corresponds to the superior petrosal sinus along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal, and finally dips under the free border, to be attached to the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone. The Falx Cerebelli is a small prominent fold, which is placed between the cerebellar hemispheres. Its attached border corresponds to the occipital sinus along the internal occipital crest. Above this it is attached for a short distance to the under surface of the tentorium. Its free border looks upwards and forwards. The diaphragma sellae is a small, annular, shelf-like fold of the dura mater which roofs in the pituitary fossa, leaving a small aperture in the centre, which transmits the infundibulum. The subdural space is a narrow lymph-space between the dura mater and the arachnoid. It is occupied by a small portion of the cerebro-spinal fluid, the