750 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle, but it also receives the whole or the greater part of a long tract of fibres, which passes downwards from the mesen- cephalon, and which is termed the descending root. The majority of the fibres of the portio major spring from the nerve-cells of the Gasserian ganglion; they enter the pons at the base of the middle peduncle and near its upper border. In the substance of the pons they pass backwards and downwards, and the smaller number terminate in arborisations around the cells of the upper sensory nucleus of the fifth nerve, an ovoid group of nerve-cells situated in the upper and lateral part of the floor of the fourth ventricle external to the motor nucleus and continuous below with the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi, which is called the lower sensory nucleus. The greater number of the fibres of the portio major pass downwards in the pons, medulla, and spinal cord, forming a crescentic bundle, known as the ascending root of the fifth nerve, which lies external to the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. It diminishes in size as it descends, and it finally terminates in the upper part of the cervical region of the cord. Its fibres pass into the substantia gelatinosa and probably terminate in arborisations. In the pons the ascending root of the fifth nerve is deeply placed between the auditory and facial nerve-roots (fig. 430), and in the upper part of the medulla it is covered by the restiform body (fig. 432), but in the lower part of the medulla and the upper part of the cord it lies close beneath the surface. The descending root arises from a column of nerve-cells which is embedded in the grey matter of the aqueduct above and external to the nucleus of the third nerve. The root commences at the level of the upper part of the nates, and increases in size as it descends, forming a white bundle of fibres crescentic in section, some of these fibres being connected with the nerve-cells which are placed on their inner side (fig. 444, v). It passes through the grey matter of the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the outer side of the substantia ferruginea, and reaches the upper part of the motor nucleus of the fifth nerve. Here it is joined by the principal part of the motor root, which arises from the motor nucleus, and by a few fibres from the motor nucleus of the opposite side. It then passes down- wards and forwards through the pons to emerge as the portio minor of the fifth nerve. At its emergence it is placed a little in front of the sensory portion, and is separated from the latter by some of the transverse fibres of the pons. The motor nucleus is an ovoid mass of cells considerably shorter than the accessory sensory nucleus, on the inner side of which it is placed. It is on the same line as the nucleus of the facial nerve, and is immediately in front of that nucleus. According to some observers some fibres of the descending root enter the sensory root and are said to eventually pass into the ophthalmic division. The sensory and motor roots of the nerve pass downwards and forwards towards an aperture in the dura mater which is placed under cover of the tentorium cerebelli, a little external to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bond in the posterior fossa of the skull. In this course the motor root takes a half- spiral turn around the sensory root, passing first to the inner side, and then below the latter. Both roots then pass through the aperture above mentioned to enter Meckel's space in the middle fossa, between the supporting and periosteal layers of the dura mater. The motor root passes out of the skull through the foramen ovale, accompanied by a larger sensory bundle from the Gasserian ganglion, and joins with the latter outside the skull to form the mandibular (or inferior max- illary) division of the fifth nerve. The sensory root spreads out into a flattened, somewhat fan-shaped, plexiform bundle, and enters the Gasserian ganglion. Tin1 Gasserian ganglion is a reddish-grey band of ganglionic matter, with its long axes slightly curved so as to present a convexity forwards and outwards. The upper and lower surfaces of the ganglion are also slightly convex and are some- Avhat adherent to the dura mater, the upper surface being more firmly attached than the lower. It rests in a depression on the petrous bone and, in front of this, on the cartilage which occupies the foramen lacerum medium. From the convex antero-external border of the ganglion, three large bundles of nerve-fibres arise. The first or ophthalmic division enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. The second or maxillary (superior maxillary) division leaves the skull through the