663 LYMPHATICS OF ABDOMEN AND PELVIS lymphatics of the stomach; (2) the intestines; (3) the liver; (4) the spleen; (5) the pancreas; (6) the kidneys; (7) the ureters; and (8) the suprarenal capsules. (1) The lymphatics of the stomach begin in the mucous and subserous coat, and thence follow the course of the blood-vessels. Thus some run upwards to the lesser curve of the stomach, others downwards to the greater curve, and others left- wards to the greater end. In this way, three chief sets are formed—the superior gastric, the inferior gastric, and the left gastric lymphatics. (« ) The superior gastric follow the course of the coronary vein along the lesser curvature towards the cardiac end of the stomach, lying between the layers of the lesser omentum. They pass on their way through five or six small (superior gastric) lymphatic glands. Reaching the cardia, they turn downwards, and, having been joined by some of Fig. 399b.—Diagram of the Arrangement of the Lymphatics of the Uterus, Fallopian Tubes, Ovaries, Vagina, and External Vulva. (After Drawing by Dr. Francis R. Sherwood.) Lumbar glands the lymphatics from the left lobe of the liver, enter the upper cceliac glands. (b) The inferior gastric lymphatics follow the course of the right gastro-epiploic vessels towards the pylorus, along the greater curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the greater omentum. After passing through six or eight small glands (inferior gastric), they are joined by the lymphatics from the upper part of the duodenum, and run between the pylorus and pancreas to the cceliac glands, (c) The left gastric lymphatics run with the vasa brevia, between the folds of the gastro- splenic omentum, to the splenic lymphatic glands. The lymphatic glands of the stomach are the superior and inferior gastric glands. The superior gastric glands, five or six in number, are situated along the lesser curve between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. They receive the superior gastric lymphatics; their efferent ducts pass first upwards towards the