802 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM LUMBAR NERVES The anterior divisions of the five lumbar nerves increase progressively in size from above downwards, the first lumbar being about the size of an intercostal nerve, and the fifth a nerve of considerable magnitude. The first, second, third, and part of the fourth nerves unite to form the lumbar plexus. The remainder of the fourth unites with the fifth to form the lumbo-sacral cord, which passes to the sacral plexus. Each lumbar nerve is connected to the gangliated cord of the sympathetic by rami communicantes. These rami communicantes reach the lumbar nerves by accom- panying the lumbar arteries through the fibrous arches from which the psoas takes origin. LUMBAR PLEXUS The lumbar plexus is placed among the deeper fibres of the psoas, and is con- stituted as follows: the first lumbar nerve is joined by a communicating twig from the twelfth thoracic and divides into two branches; one of these is the common origin of the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves; the other branch unites with a branch of the second lumbar to form the genito-crural nerve. The second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves divide into anterior and posterior divisions. A part of the anterior division of the second lumbar nerve enters into the composition of the genito-crural nerve as above mentioned; the remainder of the anterior division of the second nerve unites with the anterior division of the third and part of the fourth nerve to form the obturator nerve. The remainder of the anterior division of the fourth nerve enters the lumbo-sacral cord. The fourth lumbar nerve, therefore, takes part in the formation of both the lumbar and sacral plexuses; and it is known as the "nervus furcalis." The posterior divisions of the second, third, and fourth nerves end chiefly in two large nerves—the external cutaneous and the anterior crural. The external cutaneous arises from the second and third nerves. The anterior crural springs from the second, third, and fourth nerves. A part of the posterior division of the fourth nerve enters the lumbo-sacral cord. The large ter- i minal branches above described are given off within the substance of the psoas; three of these, the ilio-hypogastric, ilio-inguinal, and external cutaneous, appear at the outer border of the psoas, between that muscle and the quadratus lumborum; one, the genito-crural, pierces the anterior fibres of the psoas and appears in front of the muscle; another branch, the obturator, appears at the inner border of the psoas close to the lower margin of the fifth lumbar vertebra; lastly, the anterior crural nerve, the largest branch of the plexus, runs downwards in the interval' between the psoas and iliacus. Within the psoas small twigs are given off by the' lumbar nerves, which end in the muscular substance of the psoas and quadratus lumborum. Branches.—The nerves to the psoas and quadratus lumborum from the first and second lumbar nerves arise in the substance of the psoas. The ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves are in some cases represented by a common trunk which arises from the first lumbar. More commonly they exist as two separate nerves, the upper and larger nerve being ilio-hypogastric; the lower and smaller, ilio-inguinal. Taken together they correspond in many respects to a lower intercostal nerve. They run for a considerable part of their course between the transversalis and internal oblique, giving twigs to both these muscles. The ilio-hypogastric gives off a lateral cutaneous, which is called the iliac branch, and terminates in an anterior cutaneous which is termed the hypogastric branch. (1) The ilio-hypogastric nerve is a branch of the first lumbar. It appears at the outer border of the psoas and crosses the quadratus lumborum obliquely to reach the crest of the ilium. In this part of its course it is surrounded by the extra-peritoneal fat. It then pierces the transversalis and runs along the crest of the ilium between that muscle and the internal oblique, and, about two and a half inches behind the anterior superior spine of the ilium, divides into an iliac and