THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 962 of development the organ is certainly vertical, and in rare instances this position may be maintained throughout life. As a rule, however, the organ is placed obliquely, and lies in the left hypochondriac and epigastric regions (figs. 578, 582, and 583). Its position, under normal conditions, must be liable to much variation. Tbe cardiac end, or fundus, reaches as high as the level of the sixth chondro- sternal articulation, being a little above and behind the heart apex. The cardiac orifice is opposite the seventh left costal cartilage, and is about one inch from tbe sternum. Behind, it is about on the level with the body of the tenth or eleventh dorsal vertebra. The pylorus is on a lower level and nearer the surface than tbe cardiac end, and is opposite a point to the right of the middle line two to three inches below the sterno-xiphoid articulation, on the level of a line drawn between the bony ends of the seventh ribs (fig. 582). Behind, it is on a level with the twelfth thoracic spine (fig. 583). Its position is much influenced by the state of distension of the stomach. The posterior surface of the stomach looks backwards and downwards, lying on the transverse meso-colon, spleen, splenic artery, pancreas, left kidney and supra- renal capsule, and great abdominal vessels (figs. 586, 590). Above. Liver, small omentum, diaphragm. In Front. (From left to right.) Diaphragm, ahdomiual wall, liver. GENERAL RELATIONS OF THE STOMACH Behind. Transverse meso-colon, pancreas, crura, solar plexus, great ves- sels, spleen, left kidney, and capsule. Below. Great omentum, transverse colon, gastro-splenic omentum. The anterior surface looks upwards and forwards. Its relations are of import- ance in connection with the operation of gastrostomy. A certain portion of this surface comes into immediate contact with the abdominal Avail; this portion is triangular in shape, is bounded on the right by the edge of the liver, and on the left by the cartilages of the eighth and ninth ribs; and below by a horizontal line passing between the tips of the tenth costal cartilages (fig. 582). Besides the abdominal wall, this surface is covered by the diaphragm and the under surface of the left lobe of the liver (fig. 590). Relations to the peritoneum.—The stomach is covered by peritoneum in its whole extent, except immediately along the curvatures and upon a small triangular space at the back of the cardiac orifice, where the viscus lies in direct contact with the diaphragm and possibly with the upper part of the left supra-renal capsule. It is enclosed between two layers. These two layers at its upper border or lesser curvature come together to form the lesser omentum, and at the lower border or greater curvature extend downwards, to form the great omentum (figs. 562, 563). At the left of the oesophagus the two layers pass to the diaphragm, forming the gastro-phrenic ligament; and at the fundus they pass on to the spleen, forming the gastro-splenic omentum. Alteration of position.—When the stomach is empty the surfaces are flat and the pyloric end is situated near the median plane and under cover of the liver. As it distends,it occupies the left dome of the diaphragm and tilts up the heart apex. Moreover, it undergoes some alteration in position. The greater curvature is elevated and carried forwards, the anterior surface is directed upwards, and the posterior downwards, and the pylorus passes some inches to the rigid. The pyloric orifice, which in the empty stomach looks to the right, is so turned as to look back-