573 INTERNAL PUBIC pyriformis, obturator interims, and gemelli muscles, anastomosing with the pudic, the internal circumflex, and the obturator arteries. (4) The anastomotic branch crosses the external rotator muscles either over or under the great sciatic nerve, and contributes to the formation of the so-called crucial anastomosis by anastomosing with the first perforating below, the termi- nation of the internal circumflex internally, and the transverse branch of the external circumflex externally (fig. 369). (5) The articular branches pass beneath the external rotator muscles with the nerve to the quadratus femoris, and send several filaments into the posterior part of the capsule of the hip-joint. (6) The cutaneous branches turn round the lower border of the gluteus maxi- mus, along with branches of the small sciatic nerve, and supply the integument of that region. (7) The comes nervi ischiatici is a long slender vessel which passes down the back of the thigh with the great sciatic nerve, to which it sends numerous branches. It anastomoses with the internal circumflex, and with the first, second, and third perforating arteries, and with the termination of the profunda, or fourth perforating. After ligature of the femoral in Scarpa's triangle, this artery becomes greatly enlarged, and contributes through its anastomosis with the above-mentioned arteries to the supply of the parts below the ligature. 8. THE INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY The internal pudic artery—the smaller of the two terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac artery—comes off with the sciatic, the other terminal branch, either separately or as a common trunk, opposite the pyriformis muscle. It descends with the sciatic over the pyriformis and sacral plexus of nerves, lying anterior and internal to the latter artery as far as the lower border of the great sciatic foramen, where it passes out of the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles. It then winds over the outer surface of the spine of the ischium under cover of the gluteus maximus, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sciatic notch. ' Running forwards over the obturator interims muscle, it passes through the base of the triangular ligament, and, continuing its course along the ramus of the pubes, gives off between the two layers of the triangular ligament the artery of the cms and the artery of the bulb, and is continued through the anterior layer of the ligament as the dorsal artery of the penis. The relations of the artery may be considered:—(1) As it lies within the pelvis; (2) as it crosses the spine of the ischium; (3) as it lies on the obturator interims muscle, in the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa; and (4) as it lies between the two layers of the triangular ligament. (1) Within the pelvis the artery crosses the pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of nerves, lying somewhat anterior and internal to the sciatic artery, which is usually given off from the internal iliac along with it. At the lower border of the sciatic foramen it leaves the pelvis by passing between the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles along with the sciatic artery, the pudic nerve, the greater and lesser sciatic nerves, and the nerve to the obturator interims. (2) As it crosses the spine of the ischium it has a companion vein on either side, the pudic nerve on its inner side, and the nerve to the obturator interims on its outer side. It is covered by the gluteus maximus muscle, and more or less by the overlapping edge of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. In a thin subject it can be felt pulsating as it crosses the ischial spine. A spot taken at the junction of the inner with the outer two-thirds of a line drawn from the top of the great trochanter with the femur rotated inwards to the base of the coccyx, indicates externally the situation of the artery as it crosses the ischial spine. In this situa- tion it may, in a thin subject, be compressed. The branches of the artery in this part of its course are: (a) Small twigs to the gluteus maximus; (6) a small branch to the obturator internus which accompanies the nerve to that muscle; (c) a sacral branch which jfierces the great sciatic ligament and anastomoses with the sciatic artery.