270 THE ARTICULATIONS fibres passing obliquely downwards and backwards from the depression on the astragalus, just behind the inner end of the sinus pedis, to the os calcis behind the sustentaculum tali, thus completing the floor of the groove for the flexor longus hallucis tendon. The synovial sac is distinct from any other. The nerve-supply is from the posterior tibial or one of its plantar branches. The arteries are, a branch from the posterior tibial, which enters at the inner end of the sinus pedis; and twigs from the tarsal, external malleolar, and the peroneal, which enter at the outer end of the sinus. (ii) The Anterior Calcaneo-astragaloid Joint Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. This joint is formed by the anterior facet on the upper surface of the os calcis and the facets on the lower surface of the neck and head of the astragalus; it is bounded laterally and behind by ligaments, and communicates anteriorly with the astragalo-scaphoid joint. The ligaments are:— Interosseous. Internal (or antero-internal) calcaneo-astragaloid. External calcaneo-scaphoid. The interosseous ligament by its anterior lamina? limits this joint posteriorly. It has been already described (p. 269). The antero-internal calcaneo-astragaloid ligament consists of short fibres attached above to the rough depression on the internal surface of the neck of the astragalus, and below to the upper edge of the free border of the sustentaculum tali, blending posteriorly with the inner extremity of the interosseous ligament, and anteriorly with the upper border of the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. It is strengthened by the internal lateral ligament, the anterior fibres of which are also attached to the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The external calcaneo-scaphoid (superior calcaneo-scaphoid, Gray) (figs. 255 and 256) limits this, as well as the astragalo-scaphoid joint, on the outer side. It is a strong, well-marked band, extending from the rough upper surface of the calcaneum, external to the anterior facet, to a slight groove on the outer surface of the scaphoid near the posterior margin. It blends below with the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid, and above with the astragalo-scaphoid ligament. Its fibres run obliquely forwards and inwards. The internal lateral, and middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint also add to the security of these two joints, and assist in limiting movements between the bones by passing over the astragalus to the os calcis. The movements of which these two joints are capable are adduction and abduc- tion, with some amount of rotation. Adduction, or inclination of the sole inwards, being combined with some rotation of the toes inwards, and of the heel outwards; while abduction, or inclination of the foot outwards, is associated with turning of the toes outwards and the heel inwards. Thus the variety and the range of move- ments of the foot on the leg, which at the ankle are almost limited to flexion and extension, are increased. The cuboid moves with the calcaneum, while the scaphoid revolves on the head of the astragalus. In walking, the heel is first placed on the ground; the foot is slightly ad ducted; but as the body swings forwards, first the outer then the inner toes touch the ground, the astragalus presses against the scaphoid and sinks upon the spring ligament; the foot then becomes slightly abducted. When the foot is firmly placed on the ground, the weight is transmitted to it obliquely downwards and inwards, so that if the ligaments between the calcaneum and astragalus did not check abduction, inward displacement of the astragalus from the tibio-fibular arch would only be prevented by the tendons passing round the inner ankle (especially the tibialis posticus). If the ligaments be too weak to limit abduction, the weight of the body increases it, and forces the inner malleolus and astragalus downwards and inwards, giving rise to flat foot.