766 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM The accessory nucleus (lateral or ventral nucleus) is a group of cells chiefly contained within the lateral root, but also occupying the angular interspace between the lateral and the mesial roots. It presents marked affinities to a spinal nerve- ganglion, particularly in the character of the nerve-cells in its anterior (superior) part. Some of the fibres which spring from it pass through the trapezium to the fillet of the opposite side, by means of which they reach the posterior quadrigemi- nate body, whilst others terminate in the upper olive of the same and the opposite sides. Lateral root.—The lateral root arises chiefly from the cells of the accessor}' nucleus, but a certain number of fibres are believed to pass by that nucleus with- out interruption. Both sets of fibres travel in a tolerably compact bundle around the outer side of the restiform body. A certain number take origin in the cells of the tuberculum acusticum, the others cross the floor of the fourth ventricle, as stria; medullares, and, having crossed the middle line, take origin partly in the so-called nucleus funiculi teretis of the opposite side, and pass partly into the conductor sonorus. The origin of the conductor sonorus is unknown; its course has been noticed in the description of the fourth ventricle (page 719). Mesial root.—This root passes to the inner side of the restiform body and has no connection with the ventral nucleus; most of its fibres terminate in the small- celled, chief, or dorsal nucleus, but some probably pass directly to the cerebellum. There appears to be but little doubt that the superior temporal convolution is the cortical centre for hearing (Ferrier). According to Obersteiner, the probable links between the nerves of hearing and the cortical acoustic field are as follow: lateral root, accessory nucleus, superior olive, lateral fillet, posterior quadrigeminal body, internal geniculate body, temporal lobe. The two roots unite at the ventral border of the restiform body, and the nerve thus formed, proceeding upwards, outwards, and forwards, enters the internal audi- tory meatus, near the outer end of which it divides into an anterior or upper, and a posterior or lower branch. "In its course through the meatus, it is accompanied by the facial nerve, the pars intermedia, and the internal auditory artery. These structures are all contained in a common sheath of arachnoid. Within the meatus the auditory nerve becomes flattened, and it is curved in such a manner as to form a half-cylinder, open above. The pars intermedia lies in the concavity of this half- cylinder, and above this is the facial nerve, the three nerves being connected by a lax connective tissue. This connective tissue has often been mistaken for nervous communications. (Testut.)