960 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION nal oblique, and external oblique. In front, besides these muscles, there are the two recti and pyramidales muscles. External to the peritoneum the abdomen is lined by a special layer of fascia. The abdomen is the largest serous cavity in the body. Its serous membrane is the peritoneum, which, through its various complicated arrangements, is always (with one unimportant exception) a closed sac, so that the viscera are in reality situated outside the enclosure. The principal viscera found in the abdomen are those connected with digestion and the excretion of urine. On freely laying open an abdomen from the front, the general form of the space is seen to be an irregular hexagon, the sides of which are formed as follows:—The upi^er two by the margins of the costal cartilages with the ensiform cartilage between; the two lateral sides by the edges of the lateral boundary; and the two lower by the two ligaments of Poupart which meet at the pubes. In this irregular hexagon the following organs can be observed without dis- arranging their normal position (fig. 565 ). Above, on the right side under the costal cartilages, can be seen the liver, which extends from the right across the median line to a point below the left costal cartilages. Below the liver, and lying to the left side, can be seen the anterior surface of the stomach; from the lower border of the stomach the omentum extends downwards, and shining through it can be seen the middle part of the transverse colon. On each side and below the irregu- larly folded omentum are exposed the coils of the small intestine; in the right iliac fossa apart of the caecum appears; and in the left iliac fossa a coil of the sigmoid flexure is usually evident. To the left of the stomach and under cover of the lower ribs of the left side the edge of the spleen may possibly be observed; and just below the edge of the liver, and about the level of the tip of the ninth rib, the gall bladder may be seen. The dome of the urinary bladder may be noticed just behind the symphysis pubis and in the median line. The disposition of the viscera in the foetus is shown in fig. 578. THE STOMACH General description.—The stomach is situated in the upper part of the abdo- minal cavity and to the left side. When empty it is found in the left hypochon- drium and left half of the epigastric region. Above it are the liver and diaphragm, while below is the transverse colon. It is somewhat pyriform in outline, with the small end of the figure twisted upward. Its length is about twelve inches, and its width four to five inches. The distance between its two orifices varies from three to six inches. Its average capacity is about five pints (two to three litres). It weighs four ounces and a half. There are two orifices, two borders, and two surfaces to be noticed. The left, splenic, or cardiac end of the viscus is much expanded, and forms the great cul-de- sac or fundus. At the right or pyloric end there is another slighter expansion, called the antrum pylori or small cul-de-sac (fig. 566). The cardiac orifice, by which the oesophagus opens into the stomach, is situ- ated about three inches from the left extremity, owing to the bulging to the left of the great cul-de-sac. The pyloric orifice, or pylorus, is situated to the extreme right, and is more anterior in position than the cardiac orifice. The pylorus is produced by a thickening of the visceral walls between the duo- denum and stomach. The circular muscular fibres which surround the stomach are here thickened into a strong ring, thus forming a sphincter which can be felt from the outside. The longitudinal fibres pass over the circular fibres, and are not generally supposed to take part in the thickening. The mucous membrane is pushed in by the muscular ring and also thickened. The pyloric opening will hardly admit a sixpence, its fullest diameter being about one-half of an inch