266 THE ARTICULATIONS the articular facet for the astragalus. It then inclines a little forwards and down- wards, to be attached to the internal surface of the external malleolus, just above the fossa, and the upper part of the fossa itself. The synovial membrane is continuous with that of the ankle-joint; it projects upwards between the bones beyond their articular facets as high as the inferior interosseous ligament. The nerve-supply is the same as that of the ankle-joint; the arterial supply is from the peroneal and the anterior peroneal, and sometimes from the anterior tibial, or its external malleolar branch. The movement permitted at this joint is a mere gliding, chiefly in an upward and downward direction, of the fibula on the tibia. The bones are firmly braced together and yet form a slightly yielding arch, thus allowing a slight lateral expansion during extreme flexion, when the broad part of the astragalus is brought under the arch, by the upward gliding of the fibula on the tibia. To this end the direction of the fibres of the superior and inferior tibio-fibular ligaments is down- wards from tibia to fibula. This mechanical arrangement secures perfect contact of the articular surfaces of the ankle-joint in all positions of the foot. 4. THE ANKLE-JOINT Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. The ankle is a perfect ginglymus or hinge joint. The bones which enter into its formation are: the lower extremity and internal malleolus of the tibia, and the external malleolus of the fibula, above; and the upper and lateral articular surfaces of the astragalus below. The ligaments uniting the bones are:— Anterior. Internal lateral. Posterior. External lateral. Fig. 252 B.—Right Ankle-joint, showing the Ligaments. (From dissection by Mr. W. Pearson, of the Eoyal College of Surgeons' Museum.) Internal lateral ligament The anterior ligament (fig. 255) is a thin, membranous structure, which ex- tends between the lateral ligaments. It is attached above to the anterior border of the internal malleolus, to a crest of bone just above the transverse groove at the lower end of the tibia, to the anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament, and to the anterior border of the external malleolus. Below, it is attached to the rough upper surface of the neck of the astragalus, in front of the fossa. Internally it is thicker, and is fixed to the astragalus close to the facet for the inner malleolus, being continuous with the internal lateral ligament, and passing forwards to blend with the dorsal astragalo-scaphoid ligament. Externally it is attached to the astragalus, just below and in front of the angle between the superior and lateral facets, close to their edges, and joins the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. It is in relation, in front with the tibialis anticus muscle, the anterior