49 THE ETHMOID THE ETHMOID The ethmoid is a bone of delicate texture, situated at the anterior part of the skull-base; it is roughly cuboidal in shape, and its delicacy is due to the fact that it is honeycombed by air-cells. The bone consists of four parts: the horizontal or cribriform plate, two lateral masses, and a perpendicular plate. The cribriform plate forms part of the anterior cerebral fossa, and is received into the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone. Standing vertically upon this plate is the crista galli. To the posterior border of the crista the falx cerebri is attached; this border divides posteriorly to enclose the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. The anterior aspect of the base of the crista constitutes the anterior border of the cribriform plate; it is rough for articulation with the frontal. In the suture between the two bones there is usually an opening, the foramen caecum, which when present transmits a small vein. On each side of the crista galli the cribriform plate lodges the olfactory bulb, and is perforated for the transmission of the filaments of the olfactory nerves. On each side, near the anterior part of the crista, there is a narrow longitudinal slit for the nasal branch of the fifth nerve. Fig. 59.—Section through the Nasal Fossa to show the Mesethmoid. CREST OF SPHENOID GROOVE FOR NASAL NERVE CREST OF PALATE BONE SPINE OF PALATE BONE NASAL SPINE OF FRONTAL CREST OF MAXILLA The perpendicular plate (mesethmoid) is directly continuous with the crista on the under aspect of the cribriform plate. It is a lamella of bone, trapezoid in shape, which forms the upper part of the nasal septum; usually it is laterally deflected. Its anterior border articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal, and the crest of the nasal bones. The inferior border has the triangular cartilage attached to it. The posterior border is subdivided: the upper half articulates with the crest of the sphenoid, and the lower articulates with the vomer. The surfaces of this plate present, especially in their upper parts, numerous foramina for vessels, and grooves for filaments of the olfactory nerves. The lateral mass, or labyrinth, of the ethmoid consists of two scroll-like pieces of bone, the superior and inferior turbinals (ethmo-turbinals); a smooth, quadrilateral plate of bone, the os planum, and a number of air-cells. The os planum is on the outer side of the lateral mass, and forms a large por- tion of the inner wall of the orbit. By the anterior border it articulates with the lachrymal, by the posterior border with the sphenoid and the orbital process of the palate bone; the inferior border articulates with the inner margin of the orbital plate of the maxilla, and by the superior border with the horizontal plate of the frontal. Two notches in the superior border lead into grooves running horizontally across the lateral masses to the cribriform plate. These ethmoidal grooves are