BRANCHES OF OPHTHALMIC 499 it is described by some anatomists as a fourth portion—the intracerebral (fig. 387). As it lies in the foramen lacerum medium the artery is crossed on its outer side by the great superficial petrosal nerve as the latter goes to join the great deep petrosal from the carotid plexus to form the Vidian nerve. Branches op the Internal Carotid Artery The cervical portion gives off no branch. The intraosseous portion gives off:—(1) Tympanic; (2) Vidian. The intracranial portion gives off:—(1) Arteria receptaculi; (2) pituitary; (3) Gasserian; (4) meningeal; (5) ophthalmic; (6) posterior communicating; (7) anterior choroid; (8) anterior cerebral; (9) middle cerebral. Branches of the Intraosseous Portion.—(1) The tympanic enters the tympanum through a small foramen in the posterior wall of the carotid canal, and contributes its quota to the blood-supply of that cavity. It anastomoses with the tympanic branches of the stylo-mastoid and internal maxillary arteries. (2) A Vidian branch is also described, and is said to anastomose with the Vidian artery. Branches of the Intracranial Portion.—As the internal carotid artery lies on the inner side of the cavernous sinus, it gives off the following branches :—(1 ) Arteria receptaculi, small branches to the walls of the cavernous sinus; (2) pituitary branches to the pituitary body; (3) Gasserian or ganglionic branches to the Gasserian ganglion; (4) meningeal or anterior meningeal branches to the dura mater; these anastomose with anterior branches of the middle meningeal. (5) THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY The ophthalmic artery (fig. 339) comes off from the internal carotid imme- diately below the anterior clinoid process just as the latter vessel is passing through the dura mater. Entering the orbit through the optic foramen below and external to the optic nerve, it at once perforates the sheath of dura mater which is prolonged through the optic foramen on both artery and nerve. It then runs in a gentle curve with its convexity outwards below the optic nerve and external rectus, being here crossed by the nasal nerve, and turning forwards, inwards, and upwards, passes over the optic nerve, round which it thus forms a loop (fig. 339) to the inner side of the orbit. Thence it runs obliquely beneath the superior rectus in front of the nasal nerve under the lower border of the superior oblique, but above the internal rectus, and continues its course under the pulley for the superior oblique and reflected tendon of that muscle to the internal angular process of the orbit, where it divides into the frontal and nasal brandies. Branches of the Ophthalmic Artery The branches of the ophthalmic artery are:—(a) the lachrymal; (b) the supra-orbital; (c) the central artery of the retina; (d) the muscular; (c) the ciliary; (/) the posterior ethmoidal; Qy) the anterior ethmoidal; (A) the palpebral; (?') the frontal; and (/c) the nasal. (a) The Lachrymal Artery The lachrymal artery is usually the first and at times the largest branch of the ophthalmic. It arises between the superior and external rectus on the outer side of the optic nerve from the ophthalmic soon after that vessel has entered the orbit. At times it is given off from the ophthalmic outside the orbit, and then usually passes into that cavity through the sphenoidal fissure. It runs forwards along the outer wall of the orbit with the lachrymal nerve above the upper border of the external rectus to the lachrymal gland, which it supplies. In this course it fur- nishes the following branches:—(i) Recurrent lachrymal, one or more branches which pass backwards through the sphenoidal fissure, and anastomoses with the lachrymal branch of the large middle meningeal artery. The anastomosis is some-