979 THE LIVER which part it is concave. It includes that part of the liver behind the transverse fissure, and consists of the following parts (tig. 581):— (1) The posterior portion of the left lobe, not very well denned; it presents a protuberance (the tuber omentale) in front, which projects against the lesser omen- tum; behind, a concavity coming in contact with the cardia. This portion is separated by means of the fissure of the ductus venosus from (2) the Spigelian lobe, which lies between this fissure and that of the vena cava. This lobe is directed backwards, is longer from above downwards than from side to side, and is somewhat concave from side to side. It is opposite to the tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebrae, and rests on the crura of the diaphragm. Behind its upper left-hand corner the oesophagus passes to enter the stomach. Below, it pro- jects and forms part of the posterior boundary of the transverse fissure. It is con- nected with that part of the right lobe which enters into the posterior surface by means of (3) the caudate lobe, which is a small mass of liver substance running from left to right behind the transverse fissure. It lies directly over the foramen of Winslow. It varies a good deal in form; is sometimes well defined, at other times hardly to be seen. When well defined, it is about two to three inches long; behind is the termination of the fissure of the vena cava. Fig. 581.—Posterior Surface of the Liver. LEFT LOBE Vena cava (4) The portion of the right lobe taking part in the posterior surface consists of a strip two and a half to three inches broad (Quain). This is uncovered by peri- toneum, except at the extreme right. Lying between the two layers of the coro- nary ligament close to the vena cava and near the caudate lobe is an impression for the right suprarenal capsule (impressio suprarenale). Fissures.—The fissures on the inferior and posterior surfaces of the liver are arranged very like a capital letter H. The left upright of the H is formed by the longitudinal fissure ; the anterior portion containing the umbilical vein is seen on the inferior surface, and is known as the umbilical fissure ; the posterior portion, seen on the posterior surface, contains the ductus venosus, and is therefore called the fissure of the ductus venosus. The transverse bar of the H is formed by the transverse or portal fissure, which runs across at right angles to the longitudinal fissure, and contains the vessels entering the liver, viz., the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct (fig. 580). The right upright of the H is formed by the fossa of the gall bladder in front; it is interrupted by the caudate lobe; and is continued behind as the fissure of the vena cava, containing, as its name implies, the inferior vena cava. General position.—The liver is situated in the right hypochondriac and epi- gastric regions, and usually extends into the left hypochondrium (fig. 582). It is