1167 THE WRIST AND HAND fingers, corresponding to the metacarpophalangeal and interphalangeal joints, the highest is placed nearly three-quarters of an inch (18 mm.) below its correspond- ing joint. The middle folds are multiple for all the fingers, and are exactly opposite to the first interphalangeal joints. The lowest creases are single, and are Fig. 731.—Section through region of Wrist, a little above the Joint. Eight side, Upper Half of the Section. (Tillaux.) Flexor carpi radialis Flexor longus pollieis , Flexor sublimis Radial artery Brachio-radialis Flexor profundus Pronator quadratua RADIAL NERVE Extensor ossis rneta- earpi pollieis Extensor primi internodii pollieis Extensor carpi radialis longior Extensor carpi radialis brevior Extensor secundi internodii pollieiB * Ulnar artery, more / internally the NERVE 1 nter'tor interosseous artery Flexor carpi ulnaris Exteusor carpi ulnaris Extensor minimi digiti placed a little above the corresponding joints. There are two single creases on the thumb corresponding to the two joints, the higher crossing the metacarpophalan- geal joint obliquely. The free edge of the web of the fingers, as measured from the palmar surface, is about three-quarters of an inch (18 mm.) from the meta- carpophalangeal joints (Treves). Fig. 732.—Transverse Section of the Wrist, through the Middle of the Pisiform Bone. Sheath of flexores sublimis and profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollieis, enclosed by the annular ligament Cut tendon of palmaris longus SEMILUNAR BONE ULNAR NERVE Ulnar vessels Sheath for flexor carpi radialis Radial origin of annular ligament Sheath for extensor ossis inetacarpi " and primi internodii pollieis '[TffiHR Radial vessels -"' U^.'^r^^x Sheath for extensor ossis metacarpi ,, 1 ///*-;;;; '. ij^—^ and primi internodii pollieis ! |f &s os magnum —,T3rc-^<i'%fs^;; Sheath of extensor secund internodii pollieis Sheath of extensores carpi radialis, longior and brevior Sheath of extensor communis and indicator SEMILUNAR Sheath of extensor carpi ulnaris Sheath of extensor minimi digiti CUNEIFORM UNCIFORM The superficial palmar arch, formed by the ulnar anastomosing with the superficialis vol*, or radialis indieis, will be shown by a line descending to the radial side of the pisiform bone, and then, a little lower, coming across the palm on a line with the thumb when outstretched at right angles with the index finger. The digital arteries, the main branches of the superficial arch, run downwards