352 THE MUSCLES tendinous fibres, which are not only attached to the rough process of the hone but to the adjacent tendon of the vastus externus, while the more superficial fibres still pass on to be attached to the fascia lata. The whole muscle forms a parallelogram of which the upper and lower parallel sides are formed by the origin and insertion which run in oblique lines downwards and inwards, while the outer and inner borders of the muscle running downwards and outwards form the other two sides of the parallelogram. This muscle is especially remarkable for the large size of the fasciculi in which its fleshy fibres are arranged, and which give the muscle its peculiarly coarse appearance. There are two well-marked bursas in connection with the deep surface of this muscle: the one over the tuberosity of the ischium, which is partly covered by the muscle and partly projects from the middle of its lower border in such a way that when the thigh is extended it intervenes between the muscle and the prominence of bone, and when the thigh is flexed it lies between the tuberosity of the ischium and the subcutaneous fat. The second is a large, often multilocular cavity which separates the outer surface of the greater trochanter from the aponeurosis of insertion of the upper part of the muscle. A small bursa is also occasionally found between the lower part of the muscle and the tendon of the vastus externus. Nerve-supply.—From the sacral plexus (through the fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves), by means of the inferior gluteal branches which enter the deep surface of the muscle close to its inferior and internal border. Action.—To extend the hip-joint. The upper part of the muscle, passing over the greater trochanter, is placed at a considerable distance from the axis of movement which passes through the centre of the hip-joint. A similar object is obtained by the insertion of the lower fibres of the muscle at some distance down the back of the femur. The whole muscle therefore is able to act as an extensor of the hip- joint with much less mechanical disadvantage than is usual in the body. The gluteus maximus is not used in the movements of extension which require but little muscular power, such as those which draw the thigh backwards in walking; for this purpose the contraction of the hamstring muscles at the back of the thigh is alone employed. Where, however, a greater effort is required, as in ascending a hill or in running and leaping, the gluteus maximus acts with great power. It has some influence as an external rotator. With respect to abduction and adduction, the action of the muscle is neutral. Acting alone, its upper fibres will assist in the former, and its lower fibres in the latter movement. By means of the ilio-tibial band it makes tense the outer portion of the fascia lata and is able to exert some force in the extension of the knee, especially when that movement is nearly completed. Taking its fixed point from below, the gluteus maximus is a powerful extensor of the pelvis and in some degree of the lower part of the spine, e. g. in rising from the stooping position or where the trunk in a sitting posture is drawn forcibly backwards as in the action of rowing. The influence which it has upon the back by means of its attachment to the lumbar aponeurosis is shown by the great pain which is felt in rising from the stooping position when there is any inflammation of the fasciae in this region, as in lumbago. Relations.—Behind, the thick adipose tissue of the buttock and numerous cutaneous nerves; in front, the gluteus medius, pyriformis, gemelli and obturator internus, quadratus femoris, adductor magnus, biceps, semi-tendinosus and semi- membranosus, the gluteal, sciatic and pudic vessels, the great and small sciatic, the pudic and internal obturator nerves, the two sacro-sciatic ligaments, the tuber ischii, and greater trochanter. Variations.—These are rare. Occasionally a bilaruinar arrangement has been observed. 2. TENSOR VACtIN^E FEMORIS The tensor vaginae femoris (figs. 287 and 303)—named from its function of making tight the fascia lata, or sheath of the thigh (= vagina femoris) is an elongated, four-sided sheet. Origin.—(1) The front of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium; (2) the upper