969 THE LARGE INTESTINE A number of closely set acino-tubular glands, called Br miner's glands, may be exposed by dissection in the first part of the duodenum. Blood-supply of the small intestine.—The small intestine receives its blood from the superior mesenteric artery, and a branch coming indirectly from the hepatic, the superior pancreatico-duodenal. The superior mesenteric runs between the layers of the mesentery, and gives off about twelve or fifteen branches, running downwards and to the left (vasa intestini tenuis), which break up and form a series of arches, finally encircling the intestine as small branches. It also gives off a small branch at the beginning, the inferior pancreatico-duodenal, which, with the superior pancreatico-duodenal, forms an arch, which lies in the concavity of the duodenum and supplies it. The blood is returned by means of the superior mesenteric vein, which with the splenic vein forms the portal (fig. 574). The lymphatics form a continuous series, which is divided into two sets—viz., that of the mucous membrane and that of the muscular coat. The lymph-vessels of both sets form a copious plexus and end in the mesenteric lacteals (fig. 574). The nerves.—The small intestine is supplied by means of the superior mesenteric plexus, which is continuous with the lower part of the solar plexus. The branches follow the blood-vessels, and finally form two plexuses: one (Auer- bach's) which lies between the muscular coats; and another (Meissner's) in the submucous coat. The large intestine is that part of the alimentary canal which extends between the ileum and the anus. It is divided into the following parts: Caecum, ascending, transverse, and descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. It is so arranged as to surround the small intestine, making a circuit round the abdominal cavity from right to left (fig. 565). The csecum lies in the right iliac fossa; thence the colon passes vertically upwards on the right side (ascending colon) until the liver is reached. Here it forms a more or less rectangular bend (hepatic flexure), and then passes transversely across the belly (transverse colon) below the stomach. It then reaches the splenic area, where it makes a second sharp bend (splenic flexure), and, passing vertically downwards on the left side (descending colon), reaches the left iliac fossa. At this point it forms the loop of the sigmoid flexure, and finally passes through the pelvis as the rectum (fig. 577). It is much larger in diameter than the small intestine, and has not the same general convoluted arrangement. Leaving out of consideration the dilated portion of the rectum, it is wider at the Fig. 574.—Vessels of the Small Intestine. THE LARGE INTESTINE