TRIBUTARIES OF THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA 633 perfect pair at the termination of each spermatic vein. On the left side, however, the terminal valve may be wanting. (4) The ovarian veins begin as the pampiniform plexus near the ovary, between the layers of the broad ligament. This plexus communicates freely with the uterine plexus of veins, and with the plexus of veins which extends from the hilum of the ovary into the ovarian ligament (the ovarian bulb). After passing from between the layers of the broad ligament, the plexus unites to form at first two and then a single vessel, which accompanies the ovarian artery, following a similar course to the spermatic veins in the male. The right ovarian vein opens into the inferior vena cava; the left into the left renal. They usually contain imperfect valves in their plexiform part, and a perfect valve where they join the vena cava and renal vein respectively. (5) The lumbar veins.—There are usually four lumbar veins on each side corresponding to the lumbar arteries. The main trunks of these veins, which lie beside the bodies of the lumbar vertebra?, are formed by the union beneath the psoas of anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branches collect the blood from the front and lateral walls of the abdomen. They communicate in front with the internal mammary and epigastric veins, and then run backwards between the abdominal muscles in company with the anterior branches of the lumbar arteries to their confluence with the posterior branches. The posterior branches collect the blood from the loins and muscles of the back, and correspond to the posterior or dorsal division of the lumbar arteries. They receive communi- cating branches from the dorsal spinal plexus and from the vertebral canal, and pass forwards between the transverse processes to join the anterior branches. The trunk lumbar veins are connected beneath the psoas muscle by vertical branches, which cross in front of the transverse processes. The last lumbar vein is variously joined below by a vertical branch to the common iliac, internal iliac, lateral sacral or iliolumbar vein, and the first lumbar vein is similarly connected above with the commencement of the vena azygos major on the right, and the vena azygos minor on the left side. The vertical vein thus formed is known as the ascending lumbar vein, and is regarded by some morphologists as the remains of the primitive or cardinal vein of the embryo. The trunk lumbar veins run up beneath the tendin- ous arches of the psoas on the sides of the bodies of the vei'tebrae in company with the lumbar arteries and branches of the sympathetic nerve, and end in the inferior vena cava on its posterior aspect. The left veins are longer than the right, and pass behind the aorta. (6) The phrenic veins, or inferior phrenic veins as they are sometimes called, follow the course of the phrenic arteries: the right opens into the vena cava direct; the left into the suprarenal, the left renal, or the vena cava. (7) The hepatic veins, the largest tributaries of the vena cava, return the blood from the liver. Commencing in the substance of the liver (see Liver), they converge as they approach its posterior surface, and unite to form two or three large branches, which open into the vena cava as it lies in the groove or canal in that organ. Some smaller vessels from the lobulus Spigelii, and other parts of the liver in the neighbourhood of the caval groove, open directly into the vena cava. The hepatic veins contain no valves, but, in consequence of those from the right and left lobe of the liver opening obliquely into the vena cava, present a semilunar fold at the lower margins of their orifices. Chief Variations in the Inferior Vena Cava (1) The inferior vena cava, in cases of transposition of the viscera, may lie on the left side of the aorta. (2) Without transposition it may also lie to the left of the aorta, crossing to the right to gain the caval opening immediately below the diaphragm, or after receiving the left renal vein. (3) It may be double, the left cava then usually passing across the aorta into the right after receiving the left renal vein. A communication between the right and left veins in the posi- tion of the normal left common iliac vein may or may not then exist. (4) The inferior vena cava may be absent, the blood from the lower extremities passing by a large vein in the position of the ascending lumbar and azygos veins through the diaphragm to open into the superior vena cava. The hepatic veins then open directly into the right auricle through the normal caval opening in the diaphragm. (5) The inferior vena cava may receive the left spermatic vein. (6) It may receive a left accessory renal vein passing behind the aorta, and into this the usual tributaries