THE FACE 1091 cranial landmarks (fig. 666) are (1) the glabellar point, in the midline of the nasal eminence, on a level with the upper margin of the orbits; (2) the inial point, corresponding to the external occipital protuberance; (3) the mid-sagittal point, midway between these; (4) the pre-auricular point, in front of the tragus, on a level with the upper border of the external auditory meatus; (5) the angular point, over the external angular process, on a level with the upper border of the orbit; (6; the squamosal point, midway between the pre-auricular and mid-sagit- tal points. By the aid of these points, three lines may be drawn upon the shaven scalp definitely related to the principal fissures of the outer surface of the brain: (1) The sagittal line, from the glabella to the inion; with this line coincides the longitudinal fissure. (2) The squamosal line, from the angular to the squamosal point, and about two inches beyond; in this line and its continuation lies the fissure of Sylvius. (3) The frontal line, from the pre-auricular to the mid-sagittal point. The fissure of Rolando crosses this line at an acute angle. Its upper end, carried to the midline, lies three-eighths of an inch behind the mid-sagittal point; its lower end, in the squamosal line, three-eighths of an inch beyond the squamosal point. THE FACE The outline of the different bones—nasal, upper and lower jaws, malar, and zygoma—can be readily traced. Arteries.—The supraorbital artery can be felt beating just above its notch (junction of inner with outer two-thirds of supraorbital arch); the temporal itself can be felt Avhere it crosses the root of the zygoma just in front of the tragus, its anterior branch about an inch and a quarter above and behind the external angular process of the frontal; the occipital (p. 1102) pulsates near the middle of a line drawn from the occipital protuberance to the mastoid process; the posterior auricular behind the apex of the mastoid. The external carotid lies behind the ascending ramus of the jaw. The facial (fig. 667) crosses the jaw just in front of the masseter; if divided, both ends must be secured here. It can be felt again a little behind the angle of the mouth, just beneath the mucous membrane (it here gives off the coronaries, which can also be felt, lying deeply, if the lip is taken between the finger and thumb); and again by the side of the nose, as it runs up to the tendo oculi. To trace the course of the facial artery a line should be drawn from a point a little above and outside the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid to the lower part of the anterior border of the masseter, and thence to one outside and above the angle of the mouth, and so onwards, external to the angle of the nose, up to the inner canthus. The little frontal artery is of importance, as it nourishes the flap when a new nose is taken from the forehead. A line drawn from the tip of the lobule of the ear to a point midway between the nose and upper lip gives the level of the parotid duct, which opens into the mouth opposite the second upper molar tooth. The level of the duct would be about a finger's breadth below the zygoma. It is accompanied by the transverse facial artery above, and the infraorbital branch of the facial nerve below. The sheath of the parotid, continuous with those of the masseter and sterno-mastoid, is strong enough to cause most exquisitely painful tension when inflammation of the gland is present. The parotid region would be thus mapped out (fig. 670). Above by the pos- terior two-thirds of the zygoma, below by a line corresponding to the posterior belly of the digastric (fig. 670); behind are the external auditory meatus, mastoid, and sternomastoid. In front the gland and socia parotidis overlap the posterior part of the masseter, to a variable degree (fig. 670). The proximity of the parotid to the styloid process, to which the pharynx is attached, accounts for deep parotid abscess opening into the pharynx. Below the root of the zygoma, when this process is traced backwards, will be felt the temporo- mandibular joint; and when the mouth is opened, the condyle will be felt to glide forwards upon the eminentia articularis.