# THE MAMMM 1069 great part unstriped. The glands of Bartholin, although morphologically identical with Cowper's glands, are less deeply placed. The greater development of the connective-tissue structures between the genital canal and the third stage of the rectum, leading to the formation of the perinaeal body, is also a peculiarity of the female (fig. 619). The perinaeal body is triangular in sagittal section, and bounded in front by the vulvo-vaginal wall, behind by the anterior wall of the rectum, and below by the integument between the posterior Fig. 656.—Diagrammatic Representation of the Perin.eal Structures in the Female. — GLANS CLITORIDIS WITH PREPUCE — PARS INTERMEDIALS Mucoub membrane of vestibule — MEATUS URINARIUS BULBUS VESTIBULI _ GLAND OF BARTHOLIN Sphincter aui vulvar commissure and the anal aperture. It consists of a strong meshwork of connective tissue freely intermingled with fibres of elastic tissue and unstriped muscle, and is traversed by the various muscles which meet at the tendinous centre of the perinseum. It becomes stretched to a remarkable degree during the passage of the child's head in labour, but is saved from rupture by its strength and elasticity. THE 3TAMM2E The mammary glands are two pectoral organs which secrete the milk in the female, but remain permanently rudimentary and functionless in the male. The female mamma (in which term is included the gland with its investing integumentary structures) is seen in its typical adult form as a more or less hemi- spherical eminence upon the front wall of the chest over the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and extending transversely from the border of the sternum to the anterior margin of the axilla. It is surmounted near its middle by a small wart- like process, the mammilla or nipple, which lies in the centre of a circular area of altered skin called the areola. The secreting organ consists of an aggregation of ten to sixteen compound racemose glands, the ends of which open separately upon the summit of the nipple. These component elements are quite distinct in the dissected breast as so many