BETWEEN ATLAS AND AXIS 185 outer part of the capsules; extension is checked by the anterior occipito-atlantal and anterior oblique ligaments, and flexion by the posterior part of the capsule and cervico-basilar ligaments. (6) The Articulations between the Atlas and Axis -i m t a T ( Class.—Diarthrosis. 1. The Lateral Atlanto-axoidean Joints. c , ,. . . . ( Subdivision.—Arthrodka. 2. The Central Atlanto-axoidean Joint, or ] Class.—Diarthrosis. The Atlanto-odontoid. { Subdivision.— Trochoidcs. The bones that enter into the formation of the lateral joints are the inferior articular processes of the atlas and the superior of the axis; the central joint is formed by the odontoid process articulating in front with the atlas, and behind with the transverse ligament. The ligaments which unite the axis and atlas are:— 1. The anterior atlanto-axoidean. 3. Two capsular (for lateral joints). 2. The posterior atlanto-axoidean. 4. The transverse ligament. 5. The atlanto-odontoid capsular ligament. The anterior atlanto-axoidean ligament (figs. 194 and 195) is a narrow but strong membrane filling up the interval between the lateral joints. It is attached, above to the front surface and lower border of the anterior arch of the atlas, and below to the transverse ridge on the front of the body of the axis. Its fibres are vertical, and are thickened in the median line by a dense band which is a con- tinuation upwards of the anterior common ligament of the spine. This band is fixed above to the anterior tubercle of the atlas, where it becomes continuous with the central part of the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament (fig. 194); it is sometimes separated by an interval from the deeper ligament, and is often described as the superficial atlanto-axoidean ligament. It is in relation with the longus colli muscle. The posterior atlanto-axoidean ligament (fig. 195) is a deeper, but thinner and looser membrane than the anterior. It extends from the posterior root of the transverse process of one side to that of the other, projecting outwards beyond the posterior part of the capsules which are connected with it. It is attached above to the posterior surface and lower edge of the posterior arch of the atlas, and below to the superior edge of the laminae of the axis on their dorsal aspect. It is denser and stronger in the median line, and has a layer of elastic tissue on its anterior surface like the ligamenta subflava, to which it corresponds in position. It is connected in front with the dura mater; behind, it is in relation with the inferior oblique muscles, and is perforated at each side by the second cervical nerve. 1. The Lateral Atlanto-axoidean Joints are provided with short, liga- mentous fibres, forming capsular ligaments (fig. 194), which completely surround the lateral articular facets. Outside the canal, they are attached some little dis- tance from the articular margins, extending along the roots of the transverse pro- cesses of the axis nearly as far as the tips, but between the roots they skirt the inner edge of the costo-vertebral foramina. They are strengthened in front and behind by the atlanto-axoidean ligaments. Internally each capsule is thinner, and attached close to the articular margins, being strengthened behind by a strong band of slightly oblique fibres passing upwards along the outer edge of the cervico-basilar ligament from the body of the axis to the lateral mass of the atlas behind the trans- verse ligament; some of these fibres pass on, thickening and blending with the occipito-atlantal capsule, to be inserted into the margin of the foramen magnum. This band is sometimes called the accessory band (fig. 198). There is a synovial sac for each joint. 2. The Central Atlanto-axoidean Joint, although usually described as one, is composed of two articulations, which are quite separate from one another: an anterior between the odontoid process and the arch of the atlas, and a posterior between the odontoid process and the transverse ligament.