615 VEIXS OF THE SCALP superior intercostal artery. On reaching the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, it turns forwards between that process and the neck of the first rib, and opens either directly into the innominate vein or into the vertebral imme- diately before that vein joins the innominate. Tributaries.—It receives branches from the muscles amongst which it runs. The Lateral Superficial Veins of the Scalp The lateral veins descend, one in front and one behind the ear, and unite about the level of the angle of the jaw to form a single trunk—the external jugular vein. The anterior vein, the larger of the two, is known as far as the zygoma as the superficial temporal vein. There it is joined by a deep vein from the temporal fossa—the middle temporal vein ; and the united trunk, now called the common temporal vein, passes over the zygoma into the parotid gland. Opposite the neck of the lower jaw it receives the large internal maxillary vein, and takes the name of the temporo-maxillary vein. This emerges from the lower border of the parotid gland, and joins the posterior lateral vein, which is known as the posterior auricular, to form the external jugular vein. The Anterior Lateral Veins.—The superficial temporal vein returns the blood from the parietal region of the scalp. It is formed by the union of an anterior and a posterior branch: the former communicates with the supraorbital and frontal veins; the latter with the posterior auricular and occipital veins and the temporal vein of the opposite side. These branches he superficial to the corresponding branches of the superficial temporal artery, which they roughly though not accurately follow. Like the artery, they lie between the skin and the cranial aponeurosis, and descend over the temporal fascia to unite a little above the zygoma, and just in front of the pinna of the ear, to form the superficial temporal trunk. The vein thus formed continues its course downwards with the trunk of the temporal artery, and opposite the zygoma is joined by the middle temporal vein to form the common temporal vein. The middle temporal vein corresponds with the middle temporal artery. It begins in a plexus in the temporal fossa, and then runs backwards between the layers of the temporal fascia, the outer layer of which it perforates near the zygoma, to join the superficial temporal vein. It receives an orbital branch, which corresponds with the orbital branch of the temporal artery, and communicates in front with the ophthalmic vein, the external palpebral veins, and the infraorbital veins, and then runs backwards between the layers of the temporal fascia to join the middle temporal trunk or plexus. The middle temporal vein communicates with the deep temporal veins, and through them with the pterygoid venous plexus. The common temporal vein, formed by the confluence of the superficial and middle temporal veins, descends over the zygoma just in front of the pinna of the ear, lying a little superficial to the temporal artery. Then, passing deeply into the parotid gland, between the external auditory meatus and the angle of the jaw, it is joined almost at a right angle by the internal maxillary vein, and becomes the temporo-maxillary vein. Tributaries.—It receives (a) the transverse facial vein, which corresponds to the transverse facial artery; (6) articular veins from the plexus around the temporo-mandibular joint—this plexus receives the tympanic vein, which, together with its corresponding artery, passes through the fissure of Glaser; (c) parotid veins, from the substance of the parotid gland; (d) masseteric veins, from the masseter muscle; and (e) anterior auricular veins, from the pinna of the ear. The internal maxillary vein accompanies the first part of the internal max- illary artery between the internal lateral or spheno-mandibular ligament and the neck of the lower jaw. It begins at the posterior confluence of the veins forming the pterygoid plexus, and ends by uniting with the common temporal vein to form the temporo-maxillary trunk. The pterygoid plexus is formed by the veins which correspond to the branches of the internal maxillary artery. It is situated, partly on the inner surface of the internal pterygoid muscle, and partly around the external pterygoid muscle. The