717 FOURTH VENTRICLE restiform body to the superior surface. The restiform body (inferior peduncle) is joined on entering the cerebellum by the inferior fibres of the pons; the two together unite into a distinct round bundle, the inner part of which is formed by the resti- form body; the outer by the pons-fibres. This bundle passes through a distinct gap or interval bounded by the superior peduncle internally, and by the greater part of the middle peduncle externally. Its fibres then spread out into a layer, the fibrae semicirculares of Stilling which are disposed in gentle curves convex backwards and outwards; these fibres cover the capsule of the corpus dentatum, and finally sweep abruptly upwards into the folia of the superior vermis. Some fibres enter the nucleus fastigii. The fibres of the inferior peduncle are connected with the opposite olivary body, with the fillet and posterior longitudinal bundle of the same side, and with the antero-lateral column of the cord. The corpus dentatum is covered by a distinct capsule of fibres (the ' fleece ' of Stilling) derived from the olivary nucleus of the opposite side. The fibres are probably for the most part interrupted in the nerve-cells of the corpus dentatum, and are then (indirectly) continued into the white matter which occupies the interior of that plicated bag of grey matter. From the hilum of the corpus dentatum a bundle of fibres passes out, which is joined by fibres from the fleece, and thus the superior cerebellar peduncle is formed. The superior cerebellar peduncle passes upwards and inwards, and receives a covering on its outer side from the inferior fillet. It disappears from the surface by passing under cover of the testis of its own side, and assumes a deeper position in the mesencephalon, passing to the ventral side of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The majority of the fibres decussate with their fellows of the opposite side, the decussation being most pro- nounced at the level of the centre of the nates. The decussation being com- pleted, the decussated fibres and those which remain on the same side proceed brain wards as a distinct column. This column of fibres soon encounters the red nucleus, and the fibres pass through the nucleus in small bundles, the cross-section of which gives the punctated appearance to the red nucleus which is so charac- teristic of that body when seen in coronal section. Beyond the red nucleus, fibres of the superior peduncles certainly enter the optic thalamus, and probably the globus pallidus and the cortex cerebri. (6) Sagittally-directed fibres are placed within the superior vermis. When traced forwards these fibres are found to decussate with their fellows of the opposite side in front and above the nucleus fastigii; here they are joined by true commis- sural fibres from its hemisjdieres, the whole forming the great anterior cerebellar commissure of Stilling. Fibres unite the different folia to one another, constituting a system of fibres which form the most peripheral part of the arbor vitse. These fibres, from their general arrangement, are called garland-like fasciculi. The FOURTH VENTRICLE is a cavity which is widest and most lofty about its centre, and narrowed at its anterior and posterior extremities. It communicates with the third ventricle above through the aqueduct of S}dvius, and passes below into the central canal of the spinal cord. Its long axis is directed upwards and forwards. The structures which bound it behind are said to constitute its roof, while the parts bounding it in front are described as its floor. The roof is formed from above downwards by the following structures: the superior peduncles of the cerebellum with the valve of Vieussens between them, the white matter of the vermiform process of the cerebellum, the inferior medullary vela, and the epi- thelial lining of the choroid plexuses and tela choroidea inferior. Some small plates of white matter, the obex and the ligulse, also enter into the formation of the roof. The inferior part of the floor is formed by the medulla and the superior part by the posterior surface of the pons. Some white lines (stria? aeusticas), which cross the floor transversely, approximately separate the pontine from the medullary portion of the floor. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medullary velum, is a thin plate of white matter which fills in the angular interval between the superior peduncles of the cerebellum. It is continuous behind with the white matter of the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum. The lingula rests on the posterior part of its