22 THE SKELETON one on each side for the lamina, inferior articular process, and the lateral half of the spinous process (fig. 28). The pedicles may fail to join the laminae; more rarely the lamina? fail to fuse (fig. 16). The sacral vertebrae.—In addition to the three primary vertebral • centres, the three upper sacral vertebra? have each an extra pair corresponding to the costal processes of the seventh cervical vertebra; they appear at the seventh month. These processes are very large in the first sacral, smaller in the second, and very small in the third. Although the various primary centres of the sacral vertebra? appear much later than in other regions of the column, yet they are all visible at birth. The centrum of each sacral vertebra develops a superior and an inferior Fig. 27.—An Immature Cervical Vertebra. NEURO-CENTRAL SUTURE epiphysial meniscus, and eventually the five vertebra; fuse to form a single bone, the sacrum. Even in advanced life the intervertebral discs between the sacral vertebra? persist in the centre of the bone. The ear-shaped lateral articular facet on the side of the sacrum arises from two additional centres on each side, about the eighteenth year. The total number of ossific centres for the sacrum is thirty-five. The coccygeal vertebrae.—These are cartilaginous at birth. A few months later the first segment ossifies. The remaining three ossify from above downwards before the twentieth year. By the twentieth year the first three have usually coalesced. The fourth fuses with them later, and the coccyx ankyloses with the sacrum, as a rule, late in life. Fig. 28.—Ossification of the Fifth Lumbar Vertebra. LAMINA SUTURE PEDICLE NEURO-CENTRAL SUTURE CENTRUM The Serial Morphology of the Vertebrae Although at first sight many of the vertebra? exhibit peculiarities, nevertheless a study of the mode by which they develop, and their variations, indicates the serial homology of the con- stituent parts of the vertebra? in each region of the column. The centrum, or body of the vertebra, is that part which immediately surrounds the noto- chord. This part is present in all the vertebra? of man, but the centrum of the atlas is dissociated from its neural arch, and ankylosed to the body of the axis. The reasons for regarding the odon- toid process as the body of the atlas are these : In the embryo the notochord passes through it on its way to the base of the cranium. Between the odontoid process and the body of the axis, there is a swelling of the notochord in the early embryo as in other intervertebral regions. This swelling is later indicated by a small intervertebral disc hidden in the bone, but persistent even in old age. The odontoid process arises from primary centres, and in chelonians it remains as a separate ossicle throughout life ; in Ornithorhynchus it remains distinct for a long time, and it has been found separate even in an adult man. Lastly, in man and many mammals, an epiphysial plate develops between it and the true body of the axis.