THE NOSE AND NECK 1099 portion of the inferior turbinated bone can be seen. On throwing the head further back, with a good light the lower margin of the middle turbinated bone can also be made out. This is much higher up and nearly on a level with the root of the nasal bone. The septum often deviates to one side. The mucous membrane over it is, in health, dull red in colour; that over the inferior turbinated is thicker. The anterior extremity of the latter bone is about three-quarters of an inch behind the orifice, while the opening of the nasal duct is about one inch behind and about three-quarters of an inch above the floor. The opening into the antrum is situated in about the centre of the middle meatus and one inch above the floor. The posterior nares should be examined by the finger passed behind the soft palate. Each oval aperture measures, in the adult skull, about half an inch trans- versely by one vertically. In life the above dimensions are somewhat less, owing to the presence of the mucous membrane. The boundaries of these apertures should be identified, viz.: internally, the vomer; externally, the internal pterygoid plate and palate bone; above, the basisphenoid; and below, the posterior border of the horizontal plates of the palate bones and posterior nasal spine. THE NECK Landmarks in the middle line.—Passing from the symphysis to the supra- clavicular notch is the body of the hyoid, which is nearly on a level with the angles of the jaw. On either side of the body are the great cornua. The upper borders of these are the guides to the lingual arteries. Below the hyoid is the thyro- hyoid space, which corresponds with the epiglottis and the upper aperture of the larynx. Thus, if the throat be cut above the hyoid, the mouth will be opened and the tongue cut into; if the thyro-hyoid space be cut, the pharynx would be opened and the epiglottis wounded near its base. Behind the centre of the anterior margin of the thyroid is the rima glottidis. The projection of the thyroid notch is much more distinct in men than in women or children. It does not appear before puberty, and thus flatness of the thyroid must be expected when the landmarks for trache- otomy are sought for in children with short fat necks. The cricoid, on the other hand, is always to be made out. It corresponds in horizontal plane to the folloAv- ing:—r(l) The fifth cervical vertebra. (2) The junction of pharynx and oesopha- gus: from the narrowing of the tube here, foreign bodies may lodge at this point and cause dyspnoea by pressing on the air-tube in front. The cricoid is taken as the centre of the incision in oesophagotomy, and also for ligature of the common carotid. (3) The junction of larynx and trachea. (4) The crossing of the omo- hyoid over the common carotid. (5) The middle cervical ganglion. The distance between the cricoid and the manubrium is only about an inch and a half. When the neck is stretched, about three-quarters of an inch more is gained. Thus, as a rule, there are not more than seven or eight tracheal rings above the sternum. Of these, the second, third, and fourth are covered by the thyroid isth- mus. The parts met with in the middle line—( a) above, and (6) below the isth- mus—should be borne in mind: (a) Skin, superficial fascia, branches of transverse cervical and infra-mandibular nerves, lymphatics, cutaneous arteries, anterior jug- ular veins—with their transverse branches smaller above,—deep fascia, sterno- hyoids, cellular tissue, superior thyroid vessels, and tracheal layer of deep fascia. The importance of this last is two-fold, as, first, the tube in tracheotomy may be passed between it and the trachea, and after a wound in this region this layer, con- tinuous with the pericardium, may conduct discharges into the mediastina. (b) The surface structures are much the same, but the anterior jugular veins and their transverse branches are much larger. The inferior thyroid veins are also larger. A thyroidea ima may be present, and the innominate artery, which often crosses the trachea above the sterno-clavicular joint, may do so as high as the seventh tra- cheal ring. The trachea is also smaller, deeper, and less steadied by muscles. The thymus, too, in young children, may prove a difficulty. Thus, in children, the high operation, incising the cricoid and crico-tracheal membrane, if needful, is to be preferred. The sterno-mastoid is the landmark for several important operations. Its