THE MUSCLES 422 which runs upwards and inwards, and then breaks up again into short tendons of insertion. Each muscle bridges over six or seven vertebrae. Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior branches of the thoracic spinal nerves. Action.—To extend and laterally flex the lower cervical and upper thoracic portions of the spinal column. The uppermost tendons will also assist in rotating the lower part of the neck to the opposite side. Relations.—Superficially, the spinalis and longissimus dorsi; deeply, the multifidus spinas. 3. SEMISPINALIS COLLI The semispinalis colli—named from the attachment of one-half the muscle, i. e. the insertion, to the spines of the cervical vertebrae—is a somewhat triangular sheet, with a serrated base placed vertically along the transverse processes, and the apex at the spine of the second cervical vertebra. Origin.—The back of the transverse processes of the five or six upper thoracic vertebras. Insertion.—The spines of the second to the fifth cervical vertebra?. Structure.—Arising by short tendons, the fleshy fibres pass upwards and inwards, bridging over in their course five or six vertebra?, and are inserted by still shorter tendons into the spines of the cervical vertebra?. The highest is by far the largest. Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior branches of the lower cervical nerves, the upper ones entering the muscle on its superficial, and the lower on its deep aspect. Action.—(1) To extend; (2) to flex laterally; (3) to rotate to the opposite side, the second and following cervical vertebra'. Relations.—Superficially, the complexus, from which it is separated by branches of the posterior cervical nerves and the anastomosis of the arteria pro- funda cervicis with the arteria princeps cervicis; deeply, the multifidus spina?. 4. MULTIFIDUS SPIM The multifidus spinae—named from its many divisions (multiis, many; findo, to cleave)—is a compound muscle, fleshy and thick in the sacral and lumbar regions, but becoming thin and more aponeurotic in the thoracic and cervical regions. Origin.—(1) The groove in the back of the sacrum, between the spines and the elevations which represent articular processes, the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and the deep surface of the tendon of the erector spina?; (2) the mammillary processes of the lumbar vertebra?; (3) the back of the transverse processes of all the thoracic vertebra?; (4) the articular processes of the fourth to the sixth cervical vertebra?, and the back of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Insertion.—The lower borders of the spines of the vertebra? from the last lumbar to the second cervical. Structure.—Arising by tendinous fibres superficially, but by fleshy fibres deeply, the bundles of each element of the muscle diverge, the more superficial ones running obliquely upwards and inwards so as to bridge three vertebra?, while the deeper ones pass more transversely to the third, second, and in the neck, the next vertebra above. Consequently, the more superficial fibres from one vertebra overlap the deeper ones from some of the vertebra? above. Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior branches of the spinal nerves from the second cervical to the third sacral. Action.—To extend, laterally flex, and to rotate to the opposite side, the various parts of the spinal column. Relations.—Superficially, the erector spina?, longissimus and spinalis dorsi, the semispinalis dorsi and colli; deeply, the rotatores spina?.