BASILAR 511 Branches of the Third or Occipital Portion 1. Muscular, to the muscles forming the suboccipital triangle; 2. anasto- motic, to the branches of the occipital artery. Branches of the Fourth or Cranial Portion 1. The posterior meningeal is a small branch given off as the vertebral artery pierces the dura mater to enter the cranium. It supplies the bone and dura mater of the posterior fossa of the skull, and anastomoses with the posterior meningeal branches derived from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal arteries. It gives branches to the falx cerebelli (fig. 387). 2. The posterior spinal artery runs downwards obliquely along the side of the medulla to the back of the cord, down which it passes behind the roots of the spinal nerves, being reinforced by lateral branches running inwards along these nerves, in the neck from the vertebral, in the dorsal region from the intercostals, and in the lumbar region from the lumbar arteries. It can be traced as low as the end of the spinal cord. 3. The anterior spinal artery comes off from the vertebral a little below its termination in the basilar artery. Descending obliquely inwards in front of the medulla, it unites on a level with the foramen magnum with its fellow of the op- posite side. The single vessel thus formed runs downwards in front of the spinal cord beneath the pia mater as far as the termination of the cord, being reinforced by the lateral spinal branches the whole way down (fig. 387). The spinal arteries are described in detail with the anatomy of the spinal cord. 4. The posterior inferior cerebellar (fig. 340)—the largest branch of the vertebral—arises from that vessel just before it joins its fellow to form the basilar artery. At times it may come off from the basilar itself. It runs, at first outwards across the restiform body between the origin of the pneumogastric and hypoglossal nerves, and, descending towards the vallecula, there divides into two branches, an internal and external, (a) The internal or inferior vermiform branch runs backwards between the vermiform process and the lateral hemisphere of the cere- bellum. It supplies the vermiform process, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side, and with the superior vermiform branch of the superior cere- bellar, (b) The external or hemispheral branch runs outwards, and, ramifying over the under surface of the cerebellar hemisphere, supplies its cortex and anas- tomoses along its outer margin with the superior cerebellar arteries. From the undivided trunk of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery branches are given to the choroidal plexus and the fourth ventricle. THE BASILAR ARTERY The basilar artery is formed by the confluence of the right and left vertebral arteries, which meet at an acute angle at the lower border of the pons Varolii. It runs forwards and upwards in a slight groove in the middle line of the pons, and divides at the upper border of that structure at the level of the pretentorial opening into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Branches of the Basilar Artery The branches of the basilar artery arc:—1. Transverse or pontal; 2. internal auditory; 3. anterior cerebellar; 4. superior cerebellar; 5. posterior cerebral. 1. The transverse or pontal arteries are numerous small vessels which come off at right angles on either side of the basilar artery, and, passing outwards over the pons, supply that structure and adjacent parts of the brain. 2. The internal auditory artery, a long slender vessel, accompanies the audi- tory nerve into the internal auditory meatus (fig. 387). It here lies between the facial and auditory nerves, and at the bottom of the meatus passes into the internal ear, and anastomoses with the other auditory arteries. (See Internal Ear. )