EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL tissue frameAVork, with small, roundish, light-grey meshes in it, through which latter the nerve-fibre bundles pass. Also near the centre of the disc, the retinal blood-vessels first come into view, the arteries narrower in size and lighter in colour than the veins; they divide dichotomously as they are distributed over the fundus. The retina proper is so transparent as to be ophthalmoscopically invisible, but its pigment-epithelium gives a very finely granular or darkly stippled appearance to the general red reflex. In the centre of the fundus, and therefore to the outer side of the disc, the ophthalmoscope often shows a shifting halo of light playing round a horizontally oval, comparatively dark enclosed area; this latter corresponds to the yellow spot region, and about its centre a small pale spot usually marks the position of the fovea centralis. Two structures visible at the nasal end of the palpebral aperture have been previously mentioned, and should now be examined more narrowly. The lachrymal caruncle is in reality an island of modified skin, and fine hairs can commonly be detected on its surface. On its outer side, separated from it by a narrow groove, is the semilunar fold of conjunctiva ; it rests on the eyeball, and is a rudiment of the third eyelid or nictitating membrane, present in birds and well represented in many other vertebrates. Examination of the Eyeball The eyeball of a cadaver should now be removed by snipping with scissors the conjunctiva near the corneal border, then cutting through the ocular muscles near their insertion into the globe, and filially dividing the optic nerve close to the sclerotic. The eyeball is almost spherical, but not perfectly so, mainly because its an- terior, clear, or corneal segment has a greater curvature than the rest of the eye. Considering it as a globe, however, we speak of an anterior and of a posterior pole ; the former corresponding to the middle of the front of the cornea, the latter to the middle of the posterior curvature. An imaginary straight line joining the two poles is called the antero-posterior or sagittal axis of the eyeball. The equator of the eye is that part of its .surface which lies midway between the two poles. The sagittal axis of the globe is the greatest (about 24'5 mm.), the ver- tical equatorial the least (about 23'5 mm.), and the transverse equatorial axis is intermediate in length (about 23 '9), so that the eyeball is in reality an ellipsoid, flattened slightly from above downwards. Again, if the globe is divided in its antero-posterior vertical plane, the nasal division will be found to be slightly smaller than the temporal. The optic nerve joins the globe three or four milli- metres to the nasal side of the posterior pole. The shape of the eye depends on, and is preserved by, the outermost tunic, formed conjointly by the cornea and sclerotic, the entire outer surfaces of which are now in view. The anterior or corneal part has been already examined. All round the cornea there remains a little adherent conjunctiva; elsewhere, the sclerotic is directly exposed, except for some loose connective tissue which adheres to it, especially around the optic nerve entrance. In front of the equator we see the tendinous insertions of the four recti muscles. Behind the equator are the insertions of the two oblique muscles—that of the superior oblique tendinous, and further forwards; that of the inferior more fleshy, and placed between the optic nerve and the external rectus. It is difficult to recognise the different recti muscles by their insertions if we do not know whether the eye examined is a right or a left one. To determine this we should hold the globe with the optic nerve towards us, and in the natural position with the superior oblique tendon uppermost. The inferior oblique tendon will now point to the side to which the eye belongs, and we can consequently determine the different recti muscles. The internal rectus is inserted nearest (7 mm. from) the corneal border; the external rectus commonly, sometimes the superior, is inserted furthest from it (about 8 mm.). All the recti tendons are broad and thin, but that of the internal is the broadest (8 mm.); those of the external and inferior the narrowest (6 mm.)