864 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE posterior third of these muscles is, however, comparatively ill supplied with both kinds of plexus and with nerve-endings. B. The sensory nerves are supplied by the first and second divisions of the fifth cranial nerve. The first division, or ophthalmic nerve, is entirely orbital; while the second, or maxillary, only sends a small branch to the orbit. 1. The ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve enters the orbit in three divisions, namely:— „ (1) Frontal, splitting subsequently into supratrochlear and supraorbital, both passing out of the orbit. It is distributed to the corresponding upper eyelid, and the skin over the root of the nose, the forehead, and the hairy scalp as far back as the coronal suture on the same side. It also gives branches to the periosteum in this region, and to the frontal sinus. (2) Lachrymal, supplying the lachrymal gland, anastomosing with a branch of the superior maxillary in the orbit, and finally piercing the upper eyelid. Out- side the orbit it is distributed to the outer part of the upper lid, the conjunctiva at the external canthus, and the skin between this and the temporal region. (3) Nasal, giving off (a) a branch to the ciliary ganglion, constituting its long root; (6) two or three long ciliary nerves; and (c) the infratrochlear, passing out oi the orbit. The nasal nerve then leaves the orbit, re-entering the cranial cavity before being finally distributed to the nose. The infratrochlear branch supplies the eyelids and skin of the side of the nose near the inner canthus,' the lachrymal sac, caruncle, and plica semilunaris. The nasal nerve, after its second course in the cranial cavity, passes through an aperture in the front of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and is ultimately distributed to the nasal mucous membrane, and to the skin of the side and ridge of the nose near its tip. 2. The maxillary division of the fifth nerve gives a branch, called the orbital nerve, which passes inta the orbit through the sphenomaxillary fissure, anasto- moses with the lachrymal, and leaves the orbit in two divisions. These are distributed to the skin of the temple and of the prominent part of the cheek. A few minute twigs from Meckel's ganglion, and sometimes from the maxillary division of the fifth nerve, also pass through the spheno-maxillary fissure to supply the periorbita in this neighbourhood. C. The sympathetic nerves of the orbit are derived from the plexus on the internal carotid. With the exception of branches accompanying the ophthalmic artery, and of the distinct sympathetic root of the ciliary ganglion, they enter the orbit in the substance of the other nerve-cords. The connections between the ocular nerves and the carotid plexus are recognisable as fibres going to the third, sixth, and ophthalmic nerves; as a rule, the comparatively large twigs going to the sixth join it furthest back, and those to the third furthest forward. Sympathetic connections with the fourth nerve are very doubtful. The lenticular or ciliary ganglion is situated between the optic nerve and external rectus far back in the orbit. Its three roots—motor, sensory, and sympa- thetic—have been already mentioned. Anteriorly, it gives off three to six small trunks, which subdivide to form the short ciliary nerves, about twenty in num- ber, piercing the sclerotic around the optic nerve entrance. The lymphatic system of the orbit.—Although there are no lymphatic vessels or glands in the orbit, the passage of lymph is nevertheless well provided for. We have already observed the lymph channels within, between, and outside the sheaths of the optic nerve, and have seen how these communicate anteriorly with the lymph channels of the eyeball, and posteriorly with the intracranial meningeal spaces. In addition, there are lymph-spaces around the blood-vessels, situated between the outer coat and the loose investment furnished by the muscle-fascia. The nerves of the orbit (apart from the optic) are probably similarly surrounded by lymph-spaces. In the absence of lymphatic vessels it is difficult to trace the circulation thoroughly; much of the lymph from the orbital cavity is said to pass into the internal maxillary glands.