743 CRANIAL NERVES THE PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTE3I The cerebro-spinal nerves, together with the end-organs of these nerves, the svmpathetic system and the ganglia which are connected to both the cerebro-spinal and the sympathetic nerves, make up the peripheral nervous system. The cerebro- spinal nerves are invariably paired, and, with a few exceptions (notably the vagus), are symmetrical in their origin, course, and distribution on the two sides of the body. The cranial nerves arise directly from the brain and pass out from the skull through foramina in the cranial wall. The spinal nerves arise by anterior and posterior roots from the spinal cord, and leave the spinal canal by passing through the inter- vertebral foramina. The first spinal nerve is somewhat exceptional, as its origin is partly from the medulla, and, moreover, it leaves the spinal canal by passing between the occipital bone and the atlas. THE CRANIAL NERVES The cranial nerves are classified into nine pairs by Willis, and into twelve pairs by Soemmerring. Willis's classification depends upon the manner in which the nerves pierce the dura mater; for example, the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves all pierce that membrane opposite the jugular foramen, hence they collectively form a cranial nerve (the eighth) of Willis. In Soemmer- ring's classification each nerve-trunk is considered separately. Willis's classification was formerly in use; it is now, however, generally discarded in favor of Soemmer- ring's classification. The latter will be followed in this work. The following table will explain the relation of Willis's to Soemmerring's classification:—■ First pair of nerves Second ,, Third Fourth Fifth Sixth ,, Seventh Eighth Ninth Soemmerring First pair of nerves Second ,, Third Fourth ,, Fifth Sixth ,, f Portio dura Seventh ,, 1 Portio mollis Eighth ,, f Ninth Tenth Eleventh Twelfth Names Olfactory Optic Oculo-motor Pathetic or trochlear Trigeminal or trifacial Abducent Facial Auditory Glosso-pharyngeal Pneumogastric or vagus Spinal accessory Hypoglossal It will be well to notice here that the olfactory bulb and tract and optic nerves are not serially homologous with the other cranial nerves, but are rather outgrowths of the cerebral substance itself. The ' filaments of the olfactory nerve,' which pierce the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, correspond collectively to a cranial nerve. In the case of the optic nerve, the retina, as a study of its development shows, is a portion of the brain extruded beyond the cranial wall, and the gangli- onic layer of the retina in all probability corresponds to the ' nucleus of origin' of an ordinary cranial nerve. The nervous elements which intervene between the ganglionic layer of the retina and the rods and cones therefore represent the true optic nerves. Superficial and deep origins.—The point at which a cranial nerve emerges from the substance of the brain is called its superficial origin; while the collection of nerve-cells to which its fibres can be followed is called its deep origin. It must be clearly understood, however, that the deep origin is only the proximate origin of the nerve, the real origin is in the cerebral cortex. For example, injuries to the lower portions of the ascending parietal and ascending frontal convolutions almost