ADDUCTOR MAGNUS 361 3. ADDUCTOR MAGNUS The adductor magnus—named from its action and its great size—is a thick fan-shaped sheet, forming a right-angled triangle, the right angle of which is contained between the side corresponding to the insertion of the muscle at the back of the femur and the side formed by the free upper border of the muscle. Origin.—(1) The lower part of the outer border of the tuber ischii; (2) the outer surface of the ascending ramus of the ischium near its inner border; (3) the front of the outer surface of the descending ramus of the pubes. Insertion.—(1) The back of the femur, in a line beginning at the lower extremity of the linea quadrati, and extending along the inner border of the gluteal ridge and the middle of the linea aspera down to its bifurcation; (2) the adductor tubercle on the upper and posterior part of the internal condyle; (3) the lower part of the internal intermuscular septum. Structure.—Its origin and insertion are by short tendinous fibres, with the exception of the insertion of the bundle of fibres which passes from the tuber ischii to the adductor tubercle. These arise by a long tendon above, and again become tendinous three or four inches (7 to 10 cm.) above the knee-joint, so as to form a long and conspicuous tendon on the lower part of the inner border of the muscle. Between this part of the insertion of the muscle and the linea aspera, the fibres are attached to the back of the internal intermuscular septum and to a tendinous arch which allows of the passage of the superficial femoral artery and vein from Hunter's canal into the upper part of the popliteal space. Between the origin and insertion the fibres diverge; the anterior fibres of origin passing horizontally outwards to their insertion into the upper part of the back of the femur, while the fibres which arise behind pass vertically downwards from the tuber ischii to the internal condyle. Moreover, the muscle is twisted upon itself so that the surface which above looks inwards and rather backwards is directed forwards below. A deep longitudinal groove is thus formed upon the upper part of the back of the muscle, in which lie the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. The upper part of the muscle, which arises in front, and is inserted into the inner border of the gluteal ridge, forms a triangular sheet, usually separate from the rest, and sometimes described as a distinct muscle, the adductor minimus. In addition to the opening for the superficial femoral vessels, the muscle is pierced close to the bone by the perforating arteries and the terminal branch of the profunda femoris. Upon its anterior surface it receives a membranous expansion from the vastus interims, which passes inwards beneath the sartorius to the adductor longus and magnus, forming the anterior wall of a sort of tunnel which contains the superficial femoral vessels in the middle third of the thigh, and is called Hunter's canal. Nerve-supply.—Chiefly from the third and fourth nerves of the lumbar plexus by the deep division of the obturator nerve which supplies the muscle upon the outer part of its anterior surface. The lower fibres of the muscle, however, are supplied upon their posterior surface by the great sciatic nerve, a branch of the sacral plexus. Action.—This muscle is the most powerful of the adductors. The upper three fourths of its fibres will also rotate* outwards the femur, while that part of the muscle which arises from the tuber ischii and is inserted into the inner condyle will tend slightly to rotate the thigh inwards, and will at the same time extend as well as adduct the thigh. Duchenne suggests that this is the part of the muscle which equestrians should especially develop. Otherwise the adduction of the thighs in gripping the saddle is apt to throw out the toes, which is ungainly, and, if the rider have spurs on, may lead to unpleasant consequences. Relations.—In front lie the adductor brevis and longus, and lower down the vastus internus. Behind are the hamstring muscles, the gluteus maximus, and the great sciatic nerve. At its upper border are the quadratus femoris and obturator externus. Along its inner border lie the gracilis and part of the sartorius. It is also in relation with the superficial and deep femoral vessels.