243 THE METACARPOPHALANGEAL JOINTS bone to bone; they cannot be well differentiated from the other ligaments and fibrous tissue covering the bones. The interosseous ligaments (fig. 235) pass between the apposed surfaces of the bones, and are attached to the distal sides of the articular facets, so as to close in the synovial cavities on this aspect; where there are two articular facets, the fibres extend upwards between them, nearly as far as their carpal facets. That between the fourth and fifth is the weakest. The arteries to the intermetacarpal joints are twigs from the palmar and dorsal interosseous arteries; the twigs pass upwards between the interosseous muscles. The nerves are derived from the ulnar and the posterior interosseous. The synovial membrane is prolonged downwards from the common carpal sac. The Union of the Heads of the Metacarpal Bones The distal extremities of these bones are connected together on their palmar aspects by what is called the transverse ligament. This consists of three short bands of fibrous tissue, which unite the second and third, third and fourth, and the fourth and fifth bones. They are rather more«than a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) deep, and rather less in width, and limit the distance to which the metacarpal bones can be separated. They are continuous above with the fascia covering the inter- osseous muscles; below, they are connected with the subcutaneous tissue of the web of the hand. They are on a level with the front surfaces of the bones, and are blended on either side with the edges of the glenoid ligament in front, with the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and also with the sheaths of the tendons. In front, a lumbrical muscle passes with the digital arteries and nerves; while behind, the interossei muscles pass to their insertions. 10. THE METACARPO-PHALANGEAL JOINTS (a) The Metacarpo-phalangeal Joints of the Four Inner Fingers Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Condylarthrosis. In these joints the cup-shaped extremity of the base of the first phalanx fits on to the rounded head of the metacarpal bone, and is united by the following ligaments:— Lateral. Glenoid. The glenoid ligament (fig. 236) is a fibro-cartilaginous plate which seems more intended to increase the depth of the phalangeal articular facet in front, than to unite the two bones. It is much more firmly attached to the margin of the phalanx than to the metacarpal bone, being only loosely connected with the palmar surface of the latter by some loose areolar tissue which covers in the synovial sac, here prolonged upon the surface of the bone some little distance. Laterally, it is connected with the lateral ligaments and the transverse metacarpal ligament. It corresponds to the sesamoid bones of the thumb; a sesamoid bone sometimes exists at the inner border of the joint of the little finger. The lateral ligaments (figs. 235 and 236) are strong and firmly connect the bones with one another; each is attached above to the lateral tubercle, and to a depression in front of the tubercle, of the metacarpal bone. From this point the fibres spread widely as they descend on the side of the base of the phalanx; the anterior fibres are connected with the glenoid ligament; the posterior blend with the tendinous expansion at the back of the joint. The joint is covered in posteriorly by the expansion of the extensor tendon, and some loose areolar tissue passing from its under surface to the bones (fig. 236). The synovial sac is loose and capacious, more especially over the base of the phalanx behind, and the head of the metacarpal bone in front. The arteries come from the digital or anterior interosseous vessels of the deep arch.