512 THE ARTERIES 3. The anterior cerebellar—or anterior inferior cerebellar artery, as it is some- times called—arises from the basilar soon after its origin, passes outwards and backwards across the pons, and then over the eras cerebelli to the front part of the under surface of the cerebellum. It anastomoses with the posterior inferior cere- bellar artery (fig. 340). 4. The superior cerebellar comes off from the basilar immediately behind its bifurcation into the posterior cerebral arteries. It courses outwards and backwards over the pons, in a curve roughly corresponding to that of the posterior cerebral artery, from which it is separatee! by the third cranial nerve; but, soon sinking into the groove between the pons and the eras cerebri, it curves round the latter structure on to the upper surface of the cerebellum, lying nearly parallel to the fourth nerve. Here it divides into two branches, an internal and external, (a) The internal or superior vermiform branch courses backwards along the superior vermiform process, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and at the posterior notch of the cerebellum with the inferior vermiform branch of the poste- rior inferior cerebellar artery. (b) The external or hemispheral branch runs outwards to the circumference of the cerebellum, anastomosing with the external branch of the inferior posterior cerebellar artery. Branches are given off from the main trunk of the superior cerebellar artery, or from its internal branch to the valve of Vieussens, the optic lobes, the pineal gland, and the choroid plexus. 5. Tbe posterior cerebral arteries are the two terminal branches into which the basilar bifurcates at the upper border of the pons immediately behind the pos- terior perforated space. Each artery runs at first outwards and a little forwards across the cms cerebri immediately in front of the third nerve, which separates it from the superior cerebellar artery. After receiving the posterior communicating artery, which runs backwards from the internal carotid, the posterior cerebral turns backwards on to the under surface of the cerebral hemisphere, where it breaks up into branches for the supply of the temporo-sphenoidal and occipital lobes. The branches of the posterior cerebral artery may be divided into the gan- glionic or central, and the cortical or hemispheral. («) The ganglionic or central branches, are divided into the postero-median; the posterior choroid; and the postero-lateral. (i) The postero-median branches come off from the posterior cerebral near its origin, and, passing tbrough the cerebral substance forming the posterior perforated spot, supply the inner part of the optic thalamus and the walls of the third ventricle; (ii) the posterior choroid branch passes through the transverse fissure to the velum inter- positum and choroid plexus; (iii) the postero-lateral branches arise external to the spot where the posterior cerebral artery is joined by the posterior communicat- ing. They run to the posterior part of the optic thalamus and give branches to the crus cerebri and optic lobes or corpora quadrigemina. (b) The cortical or hemispheral branches arc distril >uted as follows:—(i) the uncinate, a branch to the anterior part of the uncinate convolution; (ii) the temporal, a branch to the inferior part of the temporal lobe; and (iii) the tem- poro-occipital, a branch to the cuneus, lingual convolution, and outer surface of the occipital lobe. Here it may be stated, not only in reference to the branches of the posterior cerebral artery, but also with respect to the branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, which are described with the internal carotid (page 503), that there is no anastomosis between the cortical and central branches. The cortical and the central form two distinct and separate systems. The cortical may or may not anastomose with each other, but the communication between the neighbouring cortical branches is seldom sufficient to maintain the nutrition of an area when the vessel that normally supplies it is obstructed. The central branches are so-called end-vessels and do not anastomose with each other. Hence obstruction of the middle cerebral or Sylvian artery leads to softening of the area supplied by its central branches, but not always to softening of the region supplied by its cortical branches. Indeed the cortical region may escape completely, although the central area is irreparably disorganised. The gross anastomosis of the posterior cerebral