THE MUSCLES 354 crest of the ilium to the greater trochanter. This is by far the most important and frequent of its actions. In walking, if it were not for the powerful contraction of the gluteus medius and its associated muscles the gluteus minimus and the tensor vaginae femoris, the pelvis would not be held firm upon the upper part of the thigh when one leg is upon the ground and the other is being advanced in the forward step. In fast walking the rotatory action of the muscle comes into play, for not only does the gluteus medius of the limb which is resting upon the ground support the pelvis by drawing downwards the crest of the ilium, but, by drawing back- wards the front portion of that crest, it throws forwards the opposite side of the pelvis and increases the length of the stride. Relations.—Superficially, the fascia lata, gluteus maximus, and tensor vagina? femoris; deeply, the gluteus minimus, superior gluteal vessels and nerve, and the greater trochanter. Variations.—Sometimes a partially distinct bundle of fibres is inserted into the front of the upper border of the greater trochanter. A slip may be given from the lower border to the pyriformis. Thied Layee The third layer consists of one muscle—the gluteus minimus—which is con- tinuous with the external rotators which form the next group. GLUTEUS MINIMUS The gluteus minimus (fig. 290)—named from its position and smaller size—is a thick triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The outer surface of the ilium between the middle and inferior gluteal lines; (2) a fibrous septum which intervenes between its fibres and those of the gluteus medius below the anterior superior spine; (3) the front of the capsule of the hip-joint. Insertion.—The well-marked vertical impression which forms the anterior border of the greater trochanter. Structure.—From the fleshy origin the fibres converge fanwise "upon the deep surface of the tendon which is first seen about the middle of the anterior border, and then covers the lower part of the muscle. By its anterior border this muscle is closely blended with the anterior border of the gluteus medius and with some of the ligaments of the hip-joint. Like the preceding muscle, it is also much thicker and stronger in front. Nerve-supply.—From the same sources as the preceding by the superior gluteal nerve which distributes filaments to the middle of its outer surface near its posterior border. Action.—The same as the preceding: viz. to abduct and rotate inwards the hip- joint; and when it takes its fixed point from below, as is most usually the case, to flex the pelvis laterally and at the same time to rotate the other side forwards. Relations.—Superficially, the gluteus medius, the superior gluteal vessels and nerve; deeply, the capsule of the hip-joint, and posterior head of the rectus femoris. Variations.—The front part of the muscle may be separate from the rest. It occasionally sends slips to the adjacent muscles. THE EXTERNAL ROTATORS OF THE THIGH This group consists of six somewhat short muscles, which run transversely from the pelvic bones to the femur, and which follow immediately after the lower fibres of the gluteus minimus—viz. the pyriformis, the obturator internus with the two gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and the obturator externus.