127 THE RADIUS and affords attachment to the flexor sublimis digitorum. The posterior border begins at the back of the tuberosity and extends to the middle tubercle on the posterior aspect of the lower extremity. The anterior surface is bounded by the anterior ancl interosseous borders. The upper two-thirds is occupied by the flexor longus pollicis, and a little less than the lower third by the pronator quadratus. The external surface lies between the anterior and posterior borders. The upper third affords insertion to the supinator brevis ; at its centre there is a rough, low, vertical ridge for the pronator radii teres; below this, the bone is smooth and overlapped by the tendons of the extensores carpi radialis longior and brevior, and crossed by the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii pollicis. The posterior Fig. 133.—Ossification of the Eadius and Ulna. APPEARS AT THE TENTH YEAR; FUSES AT THE SIXTEENTH YEAR APPEARS AT THE FIFTH YEAR; FUSES AT THE SEVENTEENTH YEAR APPEARS AT THE FOURTH YEAR; FUSES AT THE EIGHTEENTH YEAR APPEARS AT THE SECOND YEAR; FUSES AT THE TWENTIETH YEAR surface lies between the interosseous and posterior borders. The upper third gives origin to the extensor ossis metacarpi and the extensor primi internodii pollicis, and the lower third is covered by tendons. The lower extremity of the radius is quadrilateral; its carpal surface is articu- lar and divided by a ridge into an inner quadrilateral portion, concave for articula- tion with the semilunar bone; and an outer triangular portion, extending on to the styloid process: this is concave to receive the superior surface of the scaphoid bone. The inner side of the lower end presents the sigmoid cavity for the reception of the rounded margin of the head of the ulna. The anterior surface is a raised ridge to which the anterior ligament of the wrist-joint is attached. The outer surface is represented by the styloid process, to the base of which the supinator longus is inserted; and the tip of the process serves for the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the wrist. It is also marked by a shallow furrow