MAXILLARY DIVISION OF THE FIFTH NERVE 753 but usually reaches the ganglion for the most part through the third and nasal nerves, being incorporated with the motor and sensory roots. From the anterior border of the ganglion about six short ciliary nerves arise; I these subdivide and communicate with the long ciliary nerves, forming about twenty nerves which separate into a supero-external and an infero-internal group, and surround the optic nerve. The nerves pierce the sclerotic in a circle around the j entrance of the optic nerve into the eyeball, and pass forwards between the sclerotic j and choroid coats of the eye. They supply nerves of ordinary sensation and trophic nerves to the eyeball (derived from the nasal); the radiating fibres of the iris (derived from the sympathetic); and the ciliary muscle and sphincter of the pupil (derived from the oculo-motor) (page 850). Second or Maxillary Division of the Fifth Nerve The maxillary ( superior maxillary) division of the fifth nerve is intermediate j in size between the mandibular (inferior maxillary) and ophthalmic divisions, and, like the latter, it is entirely sensory in function. It proceeds forwards from the i Gasserian ganglion for about one-third of an inch within the skull, and then passes through the foramen rotundum. It traverses the upper part of the spheno- maxillary fossa, and, inclining upwards, passes into the orbit through the spheno- maxillary fissure. It then courses forwards along the infraorbital groove, accom- panied by the infraorbital artery, to the infraorbital canal, and passes through the canal to emerge at the infraorbital foramen, where it terminates, almost immediately, in three sets of branches, which proceed to the upper lip, the nose, and the lower eyelid. Branches.—The branches of the maxillary division may be classified into four sets, namely:—(1) Intracranial branches; (2) branches which are given off in the | spheno-maxillary fossa; (3) branches which arise from the portion of the nerve which is placed in the infraorbital canal; and (4 ) terminal branches. The first set (1) consists of one or two recurrent twigs to the dura mater, which form loops with the recurrent branch of the mandibular (inferior maxillary) division. The second set (2) comprises the orbital nerve, the spheno-palatine nerves, and the posterior superior dental nerves. (3) The middle and anterior 48