THE MOUTH 1095 THE MOUTH On the floor, in the centre, is the frsenum linguae. In dividing the fraenum for tongue-tie, the scissors should be kept close to the bone, so as to avoid the ranine vessels. Of these, the ranine vein can be seen beneath the mucous membrane; the artery lies close to it, but deeper. The orifices of Wharton's duct open on minute papilla; situated at the ends of ridges of mucous membrane which curve forwards and inwards to meet in the middle line a little behind the symphysis of the jaw, on either side of the frsenum linguae (fig. 670). Together with Wharton's duct, or close to it, opens the duct of Bartholin, or chief duct of the sublingual gland. If the above folds be traced backwards they correspond, as they diverge, to the ranine veins, and, more deeply, to Wharton's duct and the lingual nerve (fig. 670). Under these ridges He Fig. 670.—Side of the Face and Mouth Cavity, showing the Three Salivary Glands. DEEP PORTION OF SUBMAXILLARY GLAND the sublingual glands, the majority of whose ducts open on the surface of the folds. Dilatation of one of these Rivinian ducts, more frequently dilatation of a mu- ciparous gland,—and much more rarely dilatation of Wharton's duct,—constitutes a - ranula.' The submaxillary gland can be felt nearer the angle of the jaw tying between its fossa and the mucous membrane, especially if pressure is made from outside. The attachment of the genio-hyo-glossi can be felt behind the sym- physis: the division of the muscles allows the tongue to come well out of the mouth; but when both have to be divided, the tongue loses much of its steadiness, and may easily fall back over the larynx during the administration of the anaes- thetic or, later on, in sleep. It should therefore be secured forwards for a while with silk. While the mouth is widely open, the pterygo-mandibular ligament can be seen and felt beneath the mucous membrane, behind the last molar tooth. Just below and in front of the lower attachment of this ligament, the lingual nerve can be felt lying close to the bone below the last molar. It can be divided here to give relief from pain in incurable cancer of the tongue, at a point where it crosses a line