132 THE SKELETON metacarpal, the upper and larger for the trapezoid. The radial and dorsal sur- faces are rough for ligaments. The palmar surface presents a prominent ridge, which has to its ulnar side a deep groove which transmits the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. To the ridge of the trapezium the anterior annular ligament is attached. The palmar surface affords attachment to the abductor, flexor ossis, flexor brevis, and sometimes a portion of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Articulations.—With the scaphoid, trapezoid, and the first and second meta- carpal bones. The Trapezoid The trapezoid is also very irregular in shape, and much smaller than the trapezium. It has a broad dorsal surface ; the narrow palmar surface gives origin to a few fibres of the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The portion of Fig. 141.—The Left Trapezoid. PALMAR SURFACE FOR TRAPEZIUM FOR SECOND METACARPAL bone between these surfaces is constricted and mapped out into articular facets; of these, the inferior is most conspicuous; it is saddle-shaped for the base of the second metacarpal. The radial surface has a facet for the trapezium; the ulnar surface is articular for the magnum; and the superior surface has a facet for the scaphoid. Articulations.—With the trapezium, magnum, scaphoid, second metacarpal. The Magnum The magnum is the largest carpal bone, and occupies the centre of the wrist. The superior surface is globular, and sometimes called the head. It is received into the cup formed by the semilunar and scaphoid. The articular surface of the head extends some distance on to the dorsal aspect of the bone. The inferior surface has three facets. The middle is the largest for the base of the third meta- carpal. The small ulnar facet is for the fourth, and the radial facet is for the second metacarpal. The outer (radial) surface articulates with the trapezoid, and Fig. 142.—The Left Magnum. FOR SEMILUNAR FOR SCAPHOID THE RADIAL OR OUTER SIDE FOR TRAPEZOID FOR SECOND METACARPAL FOR THIRD METACARPAL FOR SEMILUNAR - FOR UNCIFORM THE ULNAR OR INNER SIDE FOR FOURTH METACARPAL presents above this small facet a deep groove for an interosseous ligament. The inner (ulnar) surface of the bone has a long articular surface for the unciform (sometimes the lower part of this surface forms a detached facet), but is rough near its anterior part for ligaments. The palmar surface is convex and rough, and affords origin to the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The rough dorsal surface is broad, and has a deep concavity, which serves to make the head of the bone more prominent, and gives rise to the appearance of a neck. Articulations.—Trapezoid, unciform, semilunar, scaphoid, and second, third, and fourth metacarpals.