VERTEBRAL 509 Branches of the First Part of the Subclavian Artery THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY The vertebral artery, the first and largest branch, arises from the upper and posterior part of the first portion of the subclavian, on the right side about three-quarters of an inch (2 cm.) from the origin of the latter vessel from the innominate, on the left side, from the most prominent part of the arch of the sub- clavian, close to the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle. It first ascends to the foramen in the costo-transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and, having passed through that foramen and those of the next succeeding cervical vertebrae as high as the axis, it turns outwards and then upwards to reach the foramen in the Fig. 342.—Scheme of the Left Vertebral Artery. (Walsham.) The internal jugular and vertebral veins are hooked aside to expose the artery. Right posterior cerebral artery Left posterior cerebral artery Basilar artery BASILAR PROCESS, OCCIPITAL BONE Intracranial portion of vertebral artery Rectus capitis lateralis muscle FIRST CERVICAL NERVE Commencement of vertebral vein SECOND CERVICAL NERVE Vertebral plexus of reins THIRD CERVICAL NERVE Vertebral portion of vertebral artery FOURTH CERVICAL NERVE Vertebral plexus of veins FIFTH CER VICAL NER VE SIXTH CERVICAL NERVE Inferior thyroid artery Longus colli muscle Cervical portion of vertebral artery Internal jugular vein, hooked a little aside Vertebral vein, cut Subclavian artery A rteria prineeps cervicis Right and left supe- 5j—j i ior cerebellar V j arteries Z. OCCIPITAL BONE Rectus capitis pos- ticus minor mus- cle Semispinalis colli muscle Deep cervical artery Scalenus anticus muBCle, cut Tltgroid axis, hooked a little aside Subclavian vein transverse process of the atlas; after passing through that foramen it turns back- wards behind the articular process lying in the groove on the posterior arch of the atlas. It next pierces the posterior occipito-atloid ligament and the dura mater, and enters the cranium through the foramen magnum. Here it passes upwards, at first lying by the side of the medulla, then in front of that structure, and terminates at the lower portion of the pons by inosculating with the vertebral of the opposite side to form the basilar. The vertebral artery may be divided for purposes of description into four parts: the first, or cervical, extending from its origin to the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra; the second, or vertebral, situated in the intervertebral foramina ; the third, or occipital, contained in the suboccipital triangle; and the fourth, or intracranial, within the cranium. The first or cervical portion.—The artery here lies between the scalenus