THE SKIN 1074 some of which, as those on the chin and cheeks and at the ulnar border of the palm, correspond to the points of attachment of muscular fibres into the deep sur- face of the skin, and are made evident by the contraction of these fibres; while others depend upon the attachment of the skin by fibrous bands to the bony emi- nences, as of the elbow, shoulder, vertebrae, and posterior iliac spines, and are seen only when the subcutaneous adipose tissue is well developed. The skin is separated from the superficial bones and muscles, etc., by a subcu- taneous structure, comprising white fibrous and elastic tissues, fat, and, in certain situations, layers of striped or unstriped muscle. The subcutaneous fibrous tissue over the greater part of the body is arranged in two planes, known as the superficial and deep layers of the superficial fascia, separated by a layer of fat. It is closely blended with the deep aspect of the skin, but only loosely united to the deep fascia investing the muscles, and permits the cutaneous and subcutaneous structures to move more or less freely over the deep parts. In some situations, moreover, where the integument is exposed to repeated friction over subjacent bones or other hard structures, its movements are facilitated by the development of sac-like interspaces in the subcutaneous tissue, called bursae. Exceptions to this rule of mobility of integument are found in the head and face, where the skin is intimately con- nected with the subjacent muscular and tendinous tissues, and in the palms and soles, where it is firmly attached to the deep fascia. The subcutaneous fat varies considerably in amount and character in different parts of the body. It is entirely absent on the penis and scrotum and is largely developed over the nates, palms, and soles, where it serves as pads or cushions. In the scalp it appears as a single uniform layer of ovoid lobules between the derm and the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscles; on other parts of the surface it is somewhat unequally distributed, and shows a tendency to accumulate in appar- ent disproportion in certain localities, as on the abdomen, over the symphysis pubis, about the mammae in females, etc. Everywhere, except perhaps on the scalp, it may undergo rapid and visible increase or decrease under the influence of changes of nutrition. The subcutaneous planes of striped muscle are comparatively scanty in man when compared with the great panniculus carnosus of the lower mammalia. They are best represented by the platysma myoides on the neck. Unstriped muscular fibre, present in all parts of the skill as an appendage to the hair-follicles and sebaceous glands, is found also in some parts of the subcutaneous tissue, as in the scrotum and perinseum, around the anus, in the mammilla, and beneath the mammary areola. Structure of the skin.—The skin is separable into two distinct layers—a deeper, the derm, cutis vera, or corium; and a more superficial, the epiderm, cuticle, or scarf-skin. The latter, morphologically representing the epiblast, is a purely epithelial cell-growth, while the derm, which is developed from the meso- blast, is of highly complex organisation. The derm is composed of elastic fibrous tissue intermixed with fat vesicles, and bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, traversed by a rich plexus of blood and lymph-vessels and of nerves, and enclosing hair bulbs and sebaceous and sudor- iparous glands. The superficial layers are of finer structure, free from fat, and form a multitude of eminences, called papillae, which project upwards into corre- sponding depressions in the substance of the epiderm. The fibrous bands compos- ing the deeper layers are coarser and less compact, intermingled with fat lobules, and pass without any definite line of demarcation into the subcutaneous tissue. The muscular fibres appear as appendages to the hair and its sebaceous follicles, and are known as arrectores pilorum. Two or three bundles are attached to each hair-sheath below the sebaceous gland opening into the follicle, and are so arranged as to be capable of compressing the acini of the gland, and of rendering the direction of the hair-shaft somewhat more perpendicular to the surface from which it emerges. This latter action produces the ' bristling of the hair' which is believed to be one of the manifestations of extreme terror, but which occurs in many persons in association with mental excitement of various kinds. The fibrous tissue runs for the most part in bundles parallel to the surface, intercrossing at various angles in a manner that appears to be regulated upon a