THE SKIN 1078 and smaller hairs in the two sexes is too familiar to require description. The direction taken by the hairs in the various parts of the body is fairly constant and may be traced in each region to or from certain centres or vortices, such as those upon the crown of the head, at the external auditory meatus, in the axilla, the fold of the groin, and elsewhere. The hair not only varies in character and development in different parts of the surface, but presents considerable racial and individual variations in each region. Taking the hair of the head as a type, we may find it either straight, wavy, curled into incomplete or complete spirals, or minutely tufted like wool, and each of these varieties is associated with peculiarities in the transverse sectional area; thus, in the straightest hair the section is circular or nearly so, while in the wavy, curly, and woolly hair it is oval or elliptical, the greatest difference between the largest and smallest diameters being found in the woolly hair in which the radius of the curve is smallest. In length the highest development is attained in straight hair, and the growth is nearly always greater in the female than in the male. In some regions the growth becomes luxuriant from infancy; in others, as upon the pubic regions in both sexes and on the lips and cheeks of the male, its full development is deferred until puberty or later. As age advances, the hair-bulbs are liable to undergo pre- mature atrophy upon the summit of the head in men, while the growth may con- tinue to progress in other parts of the body, even to extreme senility; and a loss of pigment in the hair, usually beginning on the head and extending later in a. somewhat capricious way to the other regions of the body, is another sign of local failure of nutrition which may or may not be associated with senile degeneration of the tissues generally. Pathologically, the hair is subject to many changes, into which it is not necessary to enter here. The first growth of hair begins about the fifth month of fcetal life, but this crop (lanugo) is entirely shed within a few months of birth. The process of shedding and new formation goes on throughout life. The typical hair has its root in a dermic papilla sunken at the bottom of a deep follicle which runs more or less obliquely through the whole or greater part of the thickness of the skin. The hair-follicle is cylindrical or oval in section and fairly uniform in diameter in the greater part of its length, but expanding below where it contains the bulb of the hair. Into it open the orifices of the sebaceous glands appended to the hair; very rarely also the duct of a sweat-gland. Structurally, the follicle consists of an invagination of the elements of the skin, with the addition of a partial lining derived from the generative papilla? of the hair; and its wall comprises three laminae. The external or dermic coat is continuous with the derm, and is composed of two layers of fibrous tissue, the more external being longitudinal in direction, the inner transverse. At the bottom of the follicle it is reflected upwards as the papilla, which constitutes the essential and generative element of the hair-root. The middle or hyaline coat is an invagination of the structureless basement membrane, upon which rest the deepest cells of the epidermis. This becomes lost upon the papilla. The internal epithelial coat is divided into two secondary layers called, respectively, the outer and inner root-sheaths. The outer root-sheath, from the opening of the follicle down to the openings of the sebaceous ducts, includes all the layers of the epidermis, but below this point loses the stratum granulosum and the stratum corneum, and is reduced to the stratum Malpighii and stratum basilare. The inner root-sheath, unrepresented in the epiderm and probably a derivative of the hair-papilla, consists of three layers: the layer of Henle, formed by a single set of polyhedral cells; the layer of Huxley, similarly constituted, but with the component cells more elongated and less closely compacted; and the cuticular layer, composed of a single set of thin, imbricating cells, clear and transparent, with atrophic nuclei. The hair proper is a cylindrical or oval shaft expanded below into a bulb, where it caps the papilla, at the bottom of the follicle. The shaft, fairly uni- form in diameter in the scalp-hairs, consists of a medullary axis, surrounded by a cortical coat and invested by a cuticular layer. The medulla, constituting about one-fourth of the entire diameter of the hair, is a solid cylinder, white by reflected light, dark by transmitted light, and is composed of closely compacted nucleated cells, filled with pigmentary and fatty granules and air-bubbles. It is