THE ABDOMINAL RINGS 1115 The ring, and especially its outer pillar, can easily be felt by invaginating the scrotal skin with a ringer, and pushing upwards and outwards. In a female patient, if the thigh be abducted, the tense tendon of the adductor longus will lead up to the site of the ring. The internal ring is situated about half an inch above the centre of Poupart's ligament; oval in shape, and nearly vertical in direction, it has the arching fibres of the transversalis above it, and to its inner side the deep epigastric artery. The canal runs obliquely downwards and for- wards between the two rings. In the adult it is about an inch and a half long, but in early life, and in adults with a large hernia dragging upon the parts, the two rings are much nearer, and may be one behind the other. If the external ring be exposed, and the finger thrust carefully up the canal, the following structures will be noted:—After the finger has carefully dilated the canal, its tip will be prevented from entering the abdomen by the infundibuliform fascia. If it be pressed down- wards, it will feel Poupart's ligament, which, with the meeting of the fascia trans- versalis, forms the floor; above, it will be arrested by the arching fibres of the Fig. 685.—Obliquus Externus and Fascia Lata. internal oblique and transversalis, coming down to the pectineal line to form the conjoined tendon. Towards the abdominal wall the finger will feel the aponeurosis of the external oblique stretching over the whole anterior aspect of the canal; if turned towards the belly cavity, the finger would feel less resistant layers, viz. extra-peritoneal fat and peritoneum, and, behind the external ring, the conjoined tendon. The finger would, of course, also take notice of the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female, and investigate any alteration in the former, and isolate the vas deferens. Vessels in the abdominal wall.—The three superficial branches of the common femoral, the external pudic (superior and inferior), epigastric and circum- flex iliac, supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the adjacent groin and genitals. The only others that have to be remembered are the deep epigastrics and epigastric branch of the internal mammary, the deep circumflex iliacs, the last two intercostals, and the abdominal branches of the lumbar arteries. Of these, the deep epigastric is the most important; its course will be marked out by a line drawn from a point just internal to the centre of Poupart's ligament, upwards and