OF THE RADIUS WITH THE ULNA 229 superior radioulnar joint, lining the orbicular ligament. Outside the synovial membrane, but inside the capsule, are often seen some pads of fatty tissue; one is situated on the inner side at the base of the olecranon, another is seen on the out- side projecting into the cavity between the radius and ulna; this latter, with a fold of synovial membrane opposite the front of the outer lip of the trochlea, suggests the division of the joint into two parts—one internally for the ulna, and another externally for the radius. There are also pads of fatty tissue at the bottom of the olecranon and coronoid fossse, and at the tip of the olecranon process. The arterial supply is derived from each of the vessels forming the free anasto- mosis around the elbow, and there is also a special branch to the front and outer side of the joint, from the brachial artery, and the arterial branch to the brachialis anticus also feeds the front of the joint. The nerve-supply comes from the musculo-cutaneous chiefly; the ulnar, median, and musculo-spiral also give filaments to the joint. The movements permitted at the elbow are those of a true hinge joint, viz. flexion and extension. These movements are oblique, so that the forearm is inclined inwards in flexion, and outwards in extension; they are limited by the contact respectively of the coronoid and olecranon processes of the ulna with their corresponding fossae on the humerus, and their extent is determined by the rela- tive proportion between the length of the processes and depth of the fossae which receive them, rather than by the tension of the ligaments, or the bulk of the soft parts over them. The anterior and posterior portions of the capsule, together with the corresponding portions of the lateral ligament, are not put on the stretch during flexion and extension; but, although they may assist in checking the velocity, and thus prevent undue force of impact, they do not control or determine the extent of these movements. The limit of extension is reached when the ulna is nearly in a straight line with the humerus; and the limit of flexion when the ulna describes an angle of from 30° to 40° with the humerus. The obliquity of these movements is due to the outward inclination of the upper and back part of the trochlear surface, and the greater prominence of the inner lip of the trochlea below; thus the plane of motion is directed from behind inwards and forwards, and carries the hand towards the middle third of the clavicle. The obliquity of the joint, the inward twist of the shaft of the humerus, and the back- ward direction of its head, all tend to bring the hand towards the mid line, under the immediate observation of the eye, whether for defence, employment, or nourish- ment. This is in striking contrast to the lower limb, where the direction of the foot diverges from the median axis of the trunk, thus preventing awkwardness in locomotion. In flexion and extension, the cup-like depression of the radial head glides upon the capitellum, and the inner margin of the radial head travels in the groove between the capitellum and the trochlea. This allows the radius to rotate upon the humerus while following the ulna in all its movements. In full exten- sion and supination, the head of the radius is barely in contact with the inferior surface of the capitellum, and projects so much backwards that its posterior margin can be felt as a prominence at the back of the elbow. In full flexion the anterior edge of the radial head is received into, and checked against, the depression above the capitellum; while in mid-flexion the cup-like depression is fairly received upon the capitellum, and in this position, the radius being more completely steadied by the humerus than in any other, pronation and supination take place most perfectly. 5. THE UNION OF THE RADIUS WITH THE ULNA The radius is firmly united to the ulna by two joints, and an intermediate fibrous union, viz.:— (a) The superior radio-ulnar,—whereat the head of the radius rotates within the lesser sigmoid cavity and orbicular ligament. (b) The union of the shafts,—the mid radio-ulnar union. (c) The inferior radio-ulnar,—whereat the lower end of the radius rolls round the head of the ulna.