153 THE TIBIA surface is subcutaneous; a bursa intervenes between it and the skin. The posterior surface is concave, and in great part cartilage-covered, forming a compound articu- lar surface for gliding upon the femoral condyles. A slightly marked vertical ridge divides this surface into an outer larger portion for the external condyle, and an inner portion for the internal condyle. A slender articular facet close to the inner edge is sometimes marked off by a faint vertical ridge; this facet comes in contact with the internal condyle in extreme flexion of the leg. The lower part of the bone is terminated by a blunt point, which is embedded in the patellar ligament, especially on the posterior aspect. The upper two-thirds of the circum- ference receives directly the fibres of the vastus interims and externus, the crureus and rectus femor is muscles. Blood-supply.—The patella receives twigs from the superficial branch of the anastomotica, anterior tibial recurrent, and the inferior articular of the popliteal. Ossification.—The cartilage for the patella appears in the fourth month of intra-uterine life. The ossific nucleus is visible in the third year. THE TIBIA The tibia is the larger bone of the leg; it is situated on the inner side of, and nearly parallel with, the fibula. The upper extremity, or head, consists of two lateral eminences, or tuberosities. The superior surfaces of the tuberosities receive the condyles of the femur, the articular surfaces being separated by a non-articular ridge, to which ligaments are attached. The internal articular surface is oval in shape and concave for the internal condyle of the femur. The external articular surface is smaller, somewhat circular in shape, and presents an almost plane surface for the external condyle. The peripheral portion of each articular surface is overlaid by a fibro-cartilage of semilunar shape, connected with the margins of the tuberosities by bands of fibrous tissue termed coronary ligaments. Each semilunar fibro-cartilage is attached firmly to the rough tract separating the articular surfaces. This intermediate space is broad and depressed in front, where it affords attachment to the anterior limb of the internal and external semilunar cartilages and the anterior crucial ligament. Projecting upwards from the middle of this surface is the spine of the tibia. The posterior aspect of the base of the spine affords attachment to the posterior limb of the external and internal semilunar fibro-cartilages, and limits a deep notch inclined towards the inner tuberosity; this notch gives origin to the posterior crucial ligament. Anteriorly, the two tuberosities are confluent, and form a somewhat flattened surface of triangular outline; its apex forms the tubercle of the tibia. The ligamentum patellae is inserted into the lower part of the tubercle; the upper part is smooth and separated from the liga- ment by a bursa. Laterally, the inner tuberosity is less prominent though more extensive than the outer; near the posterior part of its circumference there is a deep horizontal groove for the central portion of the semimembranosus tendon. The margins of this groove and the surface of bone below give attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the knee. At a corresponding point of the outer tuberosity there is a rounded articular facet for the head of the fibula; the circumference of the facet is rough for ligaments. Above and in front of it is a ridge for the ilio-tibial band. The shaft is prismatic, and very thick near the head; towards the lower third it is thinner and tapering, and gradually expands towards the lower end. It has three borders : the anterior is very prominent, and known as the crest of the tibia : commencing on the outer edge of the tubercle, it runs downwards and curves inwards, to terminate at the anterior margin of the malleolus. This border gives attachment to the deep fascia of the leg. The internal border starts from the back of the internal tuberosity, and ends at the posterior margin of the malleolus.