1163 THE WRIST AND HAND the brachio-radialis. The anterior interosseous artery runs clown on the inter- osseous membrane and passes to the back of the forearm by perforating it below. The posterior interosseous lies between the superficial and deep extensors. These small arteries reinforce the palmar through the carpal arches, and thus bring down blood after ligature of the trunks above. The front of the forearm is supplied by the musculo-cutaneous on the outer, and the internal cutaneous on the inner side; just above the wrist the palmar cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar perforate the deep fascia (fig. 725). The back of the forearm is supplied by the musculo-spiral and posterior branches of the musculo-cutaneous externally, and the posterior branches of the internal cutaneous internally (fig. 725). The arrangement of the superficial lymphatics, shown in fig. 726, may be briefly described as follows:— The lymphatics of the upper extremity are superficial and deep; the former run with the superficial veins, the latter with the deep vessels. As a rule, there are no glands below the elbow. The majority of the lymphatics open into the axillary glands, and terminate on the left side, in the thoracic duct, on the right, in the right lymphatic duct. A few, accompanying the cephalic vein, reach the subclavian or infraclavicular glands, and thus communicate with the lym- phatics of the neck. Fig. 727.—Relation of the Palmae Aeches to the Folds op the Palm. (Tillaux.) THE WRIST AND HAND Bony points.—On the inner side, the styloid process and, farther outwards, the head of the ulna can be made out. On the outer side, the radial styloid process descends about half an inch (12 mm.) lower than that of the radius, and is somewhat anterior to it. Abduction of the hand is thus less free than adduction. In Colles' fracture, the line of fracture, usually transverse, crosses the radius about an inch above tbe apex of the styloid process. Between the apex of the styloid process and the ball of the thumb a bony ridge can be felt, with some difficulty, formed by the tubercle of the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium. At a corresponding point on the inner side the pisiform can be more readily distinguished. On the front of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb the sesamoid bones can be distinguished. At the back of the wrist and hand the cuneiform bone can be felt below the head of the ulna; and more towards the middle line the prominence of the os