THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 808 subcrureus, the nerve to the crureus, the nerve to the vastus externus, and the nerve to the rectus femoris. They all contain fibres from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. (g) The long or internal saphenous nerve accompanies the nerve to the vastus internus in its course through Scarpa's triangle, being placed between the latter nerve and the femoral artery. It passes through Hunter's canal with the femoral artery, lying first to the outer side, then in front, and finally to the inner side of that vessel. At the lower end of the canal it joins the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery which it accompanies, between the posterior border , of the sartorius muscle and the anterior border of the gracilis tendon, to the inner side of the knee where it becomes superficial. At this point it approaches the long saphenous vein, and accompanies that vessel for the remainder of its course. It runs down the anterior and inner part of the leg, supplying branches to the skin of that region, passes in front of the inner malleolus, and supplies the integument for about two inches below that prominence. As it leaves Hunter's canal, the long saphenous nerve gives off a patellar branch. This branch pierces the sartorius, and runs, at first downwards and then outwards, towards the ligamentum patellae. It gives twigs to the integument covering that ligament, and others which curve upwards to join the plexus patella?. KtSti BtSDli icb] it m Plexus patellae.—The skin covering the patella is profusely supplied with nerves which communicate with one another, and are derived from the external, middle, and internal cutaneous and from the long saphenous. Subsartorial plexus.—At the posterior border and partly under cover of the sartorius muscle, on the roof of Hunter's canal, and a little below the middle of the thigh, branches of the obturator, long saphenous, and internal cutaneous nerves communicate in a plexiform manner ij fe'ie and supply the adjacent skin. The posterior branch of the internal cutaneous has an independent js jm t] distribution, as already described. Occasionally the cutaneous branch of the obturator is unusu- ally large, and may supply an area of integument covering the lower part of the inner hamstring muscles. The nerve to the vastus internus accompanies the long saphenous nerve, in Scarpa's triangle, lying to its outer side. At the upper end of Hunter's canal it passes beneath the sartorius, external to the roof of the canal, and enters the inner surface of the vastus internus. It sends down a twig to the knee-joint. The nerve to the subcrureus frequently rises from the nerve to the crureus. It passes between the vastus internus and the crureus to the lower third of the thigh, where it supplies the subcrureus and sends a branch to the knee-joint. The nerve to the crureus is represented by two or three branches which enter the upper part of the muscle. One of them frequently sends a twig to the knee-joint. The nerve to the vastus externus passes downwards beneath the rectus and along the anterior border of the vastus externus, accompanied by the descending branch of the external circumflex artery. It also sends a branch to the knee- joint. The nerve to the rectus femoris enters the deep surface of that muscle, having previously given off a twig to the hip-joint which accompanies the ascending branch of the external circumflex arterv. -HI y\ fit iioti Hie ache: to -'fix Testut bin t] wer