OF THE STERNUM 211 above with the superior, and on the outer side with the posterior costo-transverse ligaments. The eleventh and twelfth ribs are unprovided with a capsule. The middle costo-transverse, or interosseous ligament (fig. 216), consists of short fibres passing between the back of the neck of the rib and front of the transverse process, with which the tubercle articulates. It extends from the capsule of the central costo-vertebral joint to that of the costo-transverse. It is best seen on horizontal section through the bones. In the eleventh and twelfth ribs this ligament is rudimentary. The posterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 216) is ti short but thick, strong, and broad ligament, which extends outwards and upwards from the extremity of the transverse process to the non-articular surface of the tubercle of the corresponding rib. The eleventh and twelfth ribs have no posterior ligament. The superior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 215) is a strong, broad band of fibres which ascends outwards from the crest on the upj:>er border of the neck of the rib, to the lower border of the transverse process above. A few scattered posterior fibres pass upwards and inwards from the neck to the transverse process. It is best seen from the front. Its inner border bounds the foramen through Avhich the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves pass. To the external border is attached the thin aponeurosis covering the external inter- costals. Its anterior surface is in relation with the intercostal vessels and nerve; the posterior with the longisaimus dorsi. The first rib has no sujxnior costo- transverse ligament. The synovial membrane (fig. 216) is a single sac. The arterial and nerve supplies come from the posterior branches of the inter- costal arteries and nerves. The movements which take place at these joints are limited to a gliding of the tubercle of the rib upon the transverse process. The exact position of the facet on the transverse process varies slightly from above downwards, being placed higher on the processes of the lower vertebras. The plane of movement in most of the costo-transverse joints is inclined upwards and backwards in inspiration, and downwards and forwards in expiration. The point round which these movements occur is the head of the rib, so that the tubercle of the rib glides upon the transverse process in the circumference of a circle, the centre of which is at the costo-central joint. 5. THE ARTICULATIONS AT THE FRONT OF THE THORAX These may be divided into four sets, viz.:— (a) The intersternal joints, or the union of the several parts of the sternum with one another. (b) The costo-chondral joints, or the union of the ribs with their costal cartilages. (c) The chondro-sternal articulations, or the junction of the costal cartilages with the sternum. (d) The interchondral joints, or the union of five costal cartilages (sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth) with one another. |o) The Intersternal Joints, or the Union of the Segments of the Sternum WITH ONE ANOTHER The sternum being composed, in the adult, of three distinct pieces,—the manu- brium, the gladiolus or body, and the xiphoid,—has two articulations, viz.. the Superior, which unites the manubrium with the gladiolus, and the Inferior, which unites the gladiolus with the xiphoid.