THE ARTICULATIONS 210 The nerve-supply comes from the anterior primary branches of the intercostal nerves. These joints approach most nearly in their movements to the condylarthroses. The movements are ginglymoid in character, consisting of a slight degree of elevation and depression around an obliquely horizontal axis corresponding with the interarticular ligament; there is also a slight amount of forward and backward gliding; and a slight degree of screwing or rotatory movement is also possible. There is a Considerable difference in the degree of mobility of the different ribs, for while the first rib is almost immobile except in a very deep inspiration, the mobility of the others increases from the second to the last; the two floating ribs being the most mobile of all. The head of the rib is the most fixed point of the costal arch, and upon it the Avhole arch rotates; the interarticular ligament allows only a very Fig. 216.—Horizontal Section through the Intervertebral Disc and Kibs. limited amount of flexion and extension (i.e. elevation and depression), and of gliding. Gliding is checked by the stellate ligament. In inspiration, the rib is elevated, and glides forwards in its socket, too great elevation being checked not only by the ligaments, but also by the overhanging upper edge of the cavity itself. In expiration, the rib is depressed, and glides backwards in its cavity. (b) The Costo-transverse Articulation Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. This joint is formed by the tubercle of the rib articulating with the anterior part of the tip of the transverse process. The eleventh and twelfth ribs are devoid of these joints, for the tubercles of these ribs are absent, and the transverse processes of the eleventh and twelfth thoracic vertebra? are rudimentary. The ligaments of the union are:— * Capsular. Superior costo-transverse. Middle costo-transverse. Posterior costo-transverse. The capsular ligament (figs. 214 and 216) forms a thin, loose, fibrous envelope to the synovial membrane. Its fibres are attached to the bones just beyond the articular margins, and are thickest below, where they are not strength- ened by any other structure. It is connected on the inner side with the middle,