THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 712 by a triangular band of fibres, the fillet, which disappears under the testis and its brachium. The crusta, or pes, is a large flattened band of white fibres which is crescentic in section, with the concavity directed backwards and inwards, and in contact with the substantia nigra. Its antero-inferior, inner, and outer surfaces are free. These surfaces are marked with ridges indicating the bundles of fibres of which it is. composed. These ridges do not run parallel to the axis of the crus, but take a slightly curved course, passing at first outwards and then upwards. The crusta is continuous below through the pons with the pyramidal body of the same side, and with the cerebellar hemisphere of the opposite side. It is somewhat constricted where it emerges from the pons. It is continuous above with the inner capsule. Dissection.—The student should scrape away the remains of the lenticular nucleus on the left side until the white substance of the inner capsule is exposed. He should then raise the superficial fibres of the under surface of the crus of the same side, and by tearing off these fibres in an upward direction he may readily demonstrate the continuity of the crusta with the inner capsule. The dissector may also follow the fibres of the crusta downwards to the pyramidal bodies by cutting through the superficial transverse fibres of the pons, but it is better to defer this dissection till a later period. The remainder of the mesencephalon with the optic thalami should Fig. 425.—Lateeal View of Mesencephalon, Pons, and Medulla. (Gegenbaur.) COEPU, be carefully preserved until the end of the dissection of the brain, when they should be examined in connection with the medulla and pons by a series of sections. The fibres composing the central third of the crusta are derived from the pyramidal bodies and pass into the anterior half of the posterior limb of the inner capsule to the ascending frontal and ascending parietal convolutions. Its outer third is formed by fibres which are partly derived from the cerebellar hemispheres of the opposite side, and which pass through the posterior half of the posterior limb of the inner capsule to the temporal and occipital lobes. These fibres are considered to be sensory in function. Lastly, the fibres constituting its inner third pass upwards through the genu and anterior limb of the capsule to the convolutions of the frontal lobe, while below some form communications with the nuclei of the cranial nerves, and others are distributed to the cerebellum in a similar manner to the fibres of the outer third of the crusta. There are other tracts of minor importance in the crusta. The tegmental portions of the crura cerebri, unlike the crustse, are continuous with one another across the middle line, where they unite in a median raphe. Each tegmen extends into the thalamencephalon below the optic thalamus, where it contains a yellowish-grey lenticular body which is called the subthalamic body. The tegmentum contains both grey and white matter, with a continuation of the formatio reticularis of the medulla and pons. The most conspicuous of the collec- tions of grey matter is the tegmental or red nucleus, a mass of brownish-grey