366 THE MUSCLES (a) Rectus Femoris The rectus femoris—named from its long straight course—is strong, fusiform, and flattened from before backwards; it arises by an anterior and a posterior head. Origin.—Anterior head, from the front of the anterior inferior spine of the ilium; posterior head, from the upper surface of the rim of the acetabulum just external to the attachment of the capsular ligament. Insertion.—The front of the upper border of the patella. Structure.—This muscle consists of two strong tendinous expansions joined by fleshy fibres. The upper expansion is formed above by the union of the two tendinous heads in a small arch, which is intimately connected with the capsule of the hip-joint. From this arch the tendinous expansion descends upon the front of the muscle as far as the middle of the thigh, getting thinner and narrower as it descends. The tendon of insertion begins upon the back of the muscle also about the middle of the thigh, and soon exj^ands into a broad aponeurosis which covers the back of the muscle at its lower end; about three inches (7'5 cm.) above the patella, it becomes free of muscular fibres, and forms a strong tendinous band which is inserted into the upper border of the patella. The fleshy fibres pass from the back and sides of the upper expansion to the front and sides of the tendon of inser- tion. Seen from the front, these fleshy fibres appear to diverge on both sides from the upper expansion, and, after passing round the border of the muscle, they converge upon the tendon of insertion so as to give the muscle a bipenniform appearance. Nerve-supply.—From the lumbar plexus (through the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves), by the anterior crural nerve which sends filaments to the posterior aspect of the muscle in the upper half of its course. Action.—To assist in the powerful extension of the knee by the quadriceps. It will also help in flexion of the hip; and it will be a powerful agent in preventing dislocation of the head of the femur. When the hip-joint is flexed, the muscle will act chiefly from its posterior head; but when the hip is extended, the anterior head of the muscle will act with more power. Relations.—In front lie the sartorius, tensor vaginae femoris, and the fascia lata; behind, it lies on the hip-joint and the crureus muscle; upon its inner border above is the iliacus; and outside it lie the gluteus medius and minimus. (b) Vastus Externus The vastus externus—named from its great size and its position upon the outer surface of the thigh—is a thick rhomboidal sheet. Origin.—(1) The upper half of the anterior intertrochanteric line and the front of the upper part of the femur along the anterior border of the greater trochanter; (2) a horizontal line which forms the lower border of the greater trochanter; (3) the outer lip of the gluteal ridge; (4) the upper half of the outer lip of the linea aspera and the adjacent portion of the shaft of the femur for about one-sixth of an inch (4 mm.); (5) the external intermuscular septum in the neighbourhood of its attach- ment to the linea aspera. Insertion.—(1) The outer half of the upper border of the patella, behind the preceding tendon, with which it also blends; (2) the upper third of the outer border of the patella; (3) by an aponeurosis which is inserted partly into the front of the external tuberosity of the tibia, partly into the deep fascia of the leg. Structure.—Arising partly directly from the bone, and partly by a strong apo- neurosis which covers the outer surface of the muscle in its upper two-thirds, the fleshy fibres run parallel to one another downwards, forwards, and inwards, at the same time curving slightly as they pass over the rounded mass formed by the crureus muscle. The aponeurosis of insertion lies upon the inner surface of the muscle and receives fleshy fibres to within one inch ("2 '5 cm.) of its insertion into the patella and its blending with the other tendons of the quadriceps muscle. Upon its anterior surface it unites with the tendon of the rectus muscle, and upon its posterior surface is received a part of the insertion of the crureus. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior crural (through the second, third, and