490 THE ARTERIES (3) The auricular branch ascends over the mastoid process to the back of the ear, and supplies the pinna and concha. It sometimes takes the place of the posterior auricular artery (fig. 335). (4) The mastoid branch is a small twig that passes into the skull through the mastoid foramen, supplying the dura mater, the diploe, the walls of the lateral sinus and the mastoid cells. (5) The princeps cervicis (fig. 335), the largest of the branches of the occipital, arises from that artery just before it emerges from beneath the splenius, and, descending for a short distance between the splenius and complexus, divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch perforates the splenius, supplies branches to the trapezius, and anastomoses with the superficial cervical, a branch of the transverse cervical artery. The deep branch passes downwards between the complexus and semispinalis colli, and anastomoses with the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal and with branches of the vertebral (fig. 338). The anastomoses between the above-mentioned arteries form important collateral channels after ligature of the common carotid and subclavian arteries (fig. 330). (6) The communicating branches run deeply into the triangle formed by the superior oblique, inferior oblique, and rectus capitis posticus major muscles, and there anastomose with branches of the vertebral. (7) Muscular branches throughout the course of the occipital artery are dis- tributed to the contiguous muscles—viz. in addition to the sterno-mastoid which receives a named branch, to the digastricus, stylo-hyoid, splenius, trachelo-mastoid, trapezius, the small muscles forming the suboccipital triangle, and the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. (8) The terminal or superficial branches (fig. 335), usually two in number, named from their position internal and external, ramify over the scalp, and have already been described. The internal branch generally gives off a twig which enters the parietal foramen (parietal artery) and is distributed to the dura mater. The occipital artery may also give off the stylo-mastoid, the posterior auricular, or the ascending pharyngeal arteries. 6. THE POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY The posterior auricular artery (fig. 335) arises from the posterior part of the external carotid artery, usually immediately above the posterior belly of the digastric, about the level of the tip of the styloid process. Occasionally it arises under cover of the digastric, quite close to, or as a common trunk with, or as a branch of, the occipital. It courses upwards and backwards in the parotid gland to the notch between the margin of the external auditory meatus and the mastoid process, where it divides into two branches, an anterior or auricular, and a posterior or mastoid. In this course it rests on the styloid process, crosses the spinal accessory nerve, and is crossed itself by the facial nerve. Branches of the Posterior Auricular Artery The branches of the posterior auricular artery are:—(1) The parotid; (2) the muscular; (3) the stylo-mastoid; (4) the anterior terminal, or auricular; (5) the posterior terminal, or mastoid (fig. 335). (1) The parotid branches are distributed to the lower portion of the parotid gland, and anastomose with the other parotid arteries. (2) The muscular branches supply the posterior belly of the digastricus, the stylo-hyoid, and retrahens aurem muscles. (3) The stylo-mastoid branch comes off from the posterior auricular artery just before it reaches the notch between the margin of the external auditory meatus and the mastoid process, and, following the facial nerve upwards, enters the stylo- mastoid foramen in the temporal bone. In the aqueduct of Fallopius it gives off the following named twigs:—(a) meatal, to the external auditory meatus; (h) mastoid, to the mastoid cells and mastoid antrum; (c) stapedic, which runs for-