678 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM with the anatomy of the ventricles. The blood-vessels, which divide freely in the subarachnoid tissue, subdivide into the pia mater, forming by their inoscula- tions fine networks from which innumerable minute vessels proceed to penetrate the nervous substance. Lymphatics of the Brain and Spinal Coed The lymphatics of the brain aud spinal cord are peculiar, inasmuch as they open into the subarachnoid space, and are only indirectly connected with the general lymphatic and venous systems. The communications with the venous system are effected by the Pacchionian bodies. The lymphatics of the peripheral nerves are in the form of tubular spaces placed between the lamellae of the perineural sheaths. These tubular channels open into the subdural and subarach- noid spaces. The subdural space is a very narrow interval between the dura mater and arachnoid (page 675). It normally contains only sufficient fluid to moisten its surfaces. It is in communication with the lymphatics of the neck and also of the back and loins. It also communicates with the perineural spaces around the nerves, and with the lymph spaces which surround the olfactory, optic, and auditory nerves. It sends prolongations around the Pacchionian bodies. It does not communicate with the subarachnoid space. The subarachnoid space contains the greater part of the cerebrospinal fluid, the fluid occupy- ing the meshes of the subarachnoid tissue. The lymphatics of the brain and cord and also the perineural spaces of the nerves open into this space. It is also in communication with the ven- tricular system of the brain by means of the foramen of Majendie aud the foramina of Key and Retzius. Slit-like communications between the subarachnoid space and the descending horn of the lateral ventricle have also been described (Merkel and Mierzejewsky). It also communicates with the perilymph spaces of the internal ear and with the lymphatics of the mucous membrane of the nose. It sends prolongations around the optic and auditory nerves. The lymphatic vessels of the brain and cord surround the arteries, and are hence called peri- vascular lymphatics. As each artery dips into the nervous substance it carries with it a tubular process of the pia mater. This tubular process is lined by endothelial cells and a similar layer covers the coat of the artery. In this manner the lymph space is bounded. The perivascular lymphatic follows the artery as far as its capillary ramifications. There is a lymph-space between the two layers of the spinal pia mater. Lymph-spaces between the outer and middle coats of the cerebral arteries (Virchow-Robin space) and others around the individual nerve-cells of the brain have been described, but these are very generally believed to be artificial, being due to shrinking from the action of reagents. According to Ober- steiner, however, the existence of the pericellular spaces 'is proved by the presence within them of lymphatic cells.' The so-called epicerebral and epispinal spaces, situated between the deep surface of the pia mater and the nervous substance, are also artificial. Structure of a Pacchionian body.—A Pacchionian body consists of (a) a central core of sub- arachnoid tissue which is joined to the general subarachnoid tissue by a comparatively narrow stalk. This is limited by (b) a layer of arachnoid; around which is (c) a prolongation of the subdural space. Bounding this space is {d) a very thin layer of membrane derived from the inner layer of the dura mater. It has been shown experimentally that injections thrown into the subarachnoid space permeate the Pacchionian bodies and pass into the venous sinuses into which these bodies project. In this course the injection distends the subdural space of the Pacchionian body, but does not enter the general subdural space. It should be mentioned, however, that anatomical pores by which the injection could pass do not exist. It is probable from these experiments that an outlet for the cerebro-spinal fluid is provided by the Pacchionian bodies. Cerebro-spiniil fluid.—The cerebro-spinal fluid occupies the subdural and subarachnoid spaces of the brain and cord and also the ventricular cavities of the brain. The average quantity is about two ounces (Landois and Stirling). Its specific gravity is about 1010. It is of a very pale yellow colour, and presents many of the characters of ordinary lymph, but differs from lymph in not being coagulable, as it does not contain either fibrin factors or fibrin ferment. It contains a substance which acts on Folding's solution like dextrose, but which is not a sugar (Foster). The cerebro-spinal fluid is derived in part from the lymphatic vessels which open into the subarachnoid and subdural spaces, but is also believed to be secreted by the epithelial cells which cover the choroid plexuses. These cells are cubical in form, and resemble secreting cells; a process of the choroid plexus covered by these cells has been aptly compared by Foster to 'an everted alveolus of a secreting gland, with the epithelium outside and the blood-vessels within.'