THE TRACHEA 913 The superior laryngeal communicates with this branch by a slender filament, which passes downwards near to the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. This communication sometimes takes place beneath the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, The arteries are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid, the epiglottis receiving some twigs from the dorsalis linguae of the lingual. The veins correspond with the arteries; and the lymphatics, which are scanty, follow the vessels and end in the deep cervical glands. THE TRACHEA The trachea, or air-tube, which is cylindrical in shape, but flattened posteriorly, extends from the lower border of the fifth cervical vertebra to the fourth or fifth thoracic vertebra. It is continuous with the larynx above, and divides into the two bronchi below. It measures from four and a half to five inches (10 to 12 cm.) in length, and is nearly an inch (2-5 cm. ) in width. Relations.—In its cervical portion it rests upon the oesophagus, which curves somewhat to the left at the root of the neck; on each side, but especially on the left, it comes into relationship with the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid arteries, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves (these latter running upwards gain the lateral groove between the trachea and oesophagus); and lastly, it is in relation with the sheath containing the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve. In front it is crossed, opposite the second, third, and fourth rings, by the isthmus of the thyroid body; above the isthmus it is concealed in part by the pyramidal lobe of the thyroid and by the levator glandulse thyroidea muscle, and it is crossed by the internal terminal branches of the superior thyroid arteries. Below the isthmus the inferior thyroid veins, the thyroidea ima artery, if it is present, and the remains of the thymus gland lie in close relation with it, and more anteriorly, separated from it by the deep cervical fascia, are the anterior jugular veins and their anastomosis above the sternum. It is overlapped on each side by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and sterno- mastoid muscles, and the interval between the muscles of the two sides is crossed by a strong deep and a thinner superficial layer of deep cervical fascia, whilst still more superficially lie the superficial fascia and skin. In its thoracic portion the trachea still rests upon and retains its connection with the oesophagus, which separates it from the spine. It lies between the two pleural sacs and pneumogastric nerves. In front of it is the sternum with the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the thymus gland, the deep cardiac plexus, the aortic arch which crosses the tube just above its bifurca- tion, the commencements of the innominate and left common carotid arteries and the left innominate vein which crosses the roots of the latter vessels. On its right side are the pleural sac, the vagus nerve, and the innominate artery, and on its left side the left common carotid and subclavian arteries, the left vagus and left recur- rent nerves, and the left pleural sac. Structure.—The trachea is made up of a series of imperfect cartilaginous rings, deficient behind, connected throughout by fibro-elastic membrane, and behind with muscular fibres (the trachealis muscle), a special layer of yellow elastic fibres, and a lining of mucous membrane. The cartilaginous rings vary in number from sixteen to twenty. They are incomplete, being deficient in the hinder third, and are connected in a continuous series by a fibrous membrane, which divides to enclose them, but reunites in the narrow intervals between. It forms a definite layer where the cartilages are want- ing, so that it may be regarded as complete throughout the tube. The inside of 58