995 THE INTESTINAL CANAL As the coils of bowel become more fully developed, it will be seen that all the small intestines lie to the right hand side, and the caecum and the commencement of the colon to the left. The vasa intestini tenuis of the superior mesenteric artery -consequently arise from the right side of the vessel, while the ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic all arise from the left (fig. 593). Further development in this direction may not proceed, and the condition above described is met with in some of the lower mammals as a permanent arrangement (fig. 596). The rotation of the intestinal canal.—As development proceeds, the plates which are forming the anterior abdominal parietes approach one another, and the closure of the cavity of the abdomen is imminent. The loops which have up to this time projected beyond the site of the future umbilicus are now withdrawn into "the abdomen. About this time a remarkable and quite characteristic rotation of the general mesenteric fold takes place. The rotation is from left to right, and is around an axis which may be represented by a line drawn from the neck or pedicle of the ■common mesentery to the site of the vitelline duct. This is in fact the line of the superior mesenteric artery (fig. 593). The rotation is therefore at the neck of the great and complex loop of intestine, which neck, as has been already said, is bounded by the duodenum and the right end of the transverse colon. Fig. 595.—Alimentary Canal of Salamandra maculosa. As a result of this rotation, the caecum and the ascending colon turn over to the right, while the great mass of the small intestines is brought to the left (fig. 597). The lower end of the duodenum will consequently be carried to the left; the transverse colon will lie in front of it, instead of below it; and the superior mesen- teric artery (2, fig. 597), which must still run between these two segments of the bowel, will now be described as passing over the duodenum, or as crossing its anterior surface. 'It is needless to say that in the fully-developed body this artery crosses the left end of the third part of the duodenum, and is behind the right end of the transverse colon. It will be seen that, in spite of this revolution, the duodenum and the transverse colon still retain their relations to one another, and still mark the neck or pedicle of attachment of the common mesenteric fold. The effect of this rotation of the intestinal tube is shown in the diagram (fig. 597). The caecum and ascending colon are now moved to the right; the transverse colon is more distinctly transverse; the small intestine has passed over to the left side. The right side of the mesentery has become the left side, and vice versa; and the vasa intestini tenuis now appear to arise from the left border of the superior mesenteric artery instead of from the right (fig. 597). The duodenum is almost hidden from view, and has been brought into close contact with the vertebral column. The descending colon remains unchanged, and is supported by the still undisturbed median fold of the peritoneum.