1071 THE MAMMJE and is capable of a kind of erection under the influence of cold, mechanical stimulus, or mental emotion. In some persons it is normally retracted into a depression of the integument, and only projects in response to stimulation. The areola is about an inch in diameter, and is characterised by its pigmentation, the delicacy of its texture, the absence of subcutaneous fat, the large development of its sebaceous and accessory milk glands, and its contractility under the influ- ences which produce erection of the nipple. It is pink in the virgin, but during pregnancy and lactation assumes a brownish shade. The accessory glands, slightly marked in the virgin, form distinct prominences after impregnation ( tubercles of Montgomery). The contractility of the nipple and areola is due to the presence of circular and radiating fibres of unstriped muscle in the subcutaneous tissue, the former passing into the substance of the nipple, and forming a network around the lactif- erous ducts. The circular fibres by their contraction cause the nipjde to project; the radiating fibres retract it. Variations according to age and functional activity.—At birth the gland is only about one-fifth to one-third of an inch in diameter. The nipple with its dartos is well formed, and the secreting structure is represented by slightly ramified ducts which contain a milky fluid. Growth is slow up to the time of puberty; after this, development progresses rapidly, but no distinct indication of subdivision into lobes is present until impregnation takes place. Some slight engorgement of Fig. 658.—Development of the Mamma of the Female Embryo. (7 inches in length < 70.) (After Langer.) the breast may, however, occur at the menstrual period, when a yellowish glutinous secretion may sometimes be expelled from the ducts. In pregnancy and during lactation the evolution of the gland-structure is remarkably active. The whole breast enlarges, the superficial fat undergoes absorption, the vessels become dilated and their walls thickened; the areola and nipple increase in size, and the former becomes more or less deeply pigmented. After the end of lactation the breast becomes smaller, but seldom resumes its original condition of smoothness, firmness, and elasticity, and some traces of the pigmentation of the areola remain permanent. In old age the glandular structures atrophy. The male breast differs from that of the female in the early arrest of its evolu- tion. It ranges in diameter from a third of an inch to an inch, and possesses an areola and a nipple, the former often beset with hairs. It is usually placed over the fourth intercostal space, a little internal to the border of the pectoralis major, but its position is very variable, and the two glands are often unsymmetrical. A tem- porary engorgement occasionally appears in early adult life, and may lead to in Hammatory complications. Vessels and nerves.—The arteries are derived from the internal mammary through the second, third, and fourth intercostal spaces, and from the thoracic branches of the axillary. The chief supply is given to the perforating branches of the internal mammary, but the external mammary branch of the axillary artery may be of large size in the female.