640 THE VEINS branch (the median cephalic) and an inner branch (the median basilic). The median cephalic runs upwards and outwards to join the superficial radial vein. The united trunk, then known as the cephalic, continues up the outer side of the arm. and opens into the axillary vein. The median basilic runs upwards and inwards to join the superficial ulnar vein. The trunk thus formed ("the basilic) courses up the inner side of the arm to join the inner brachial vena comes and form the axillary vein. The dorsal venous plexus, which is situated on the back of the hand, some- times takes the form of an irregular arch, stretching across from the radial to the Fig. 395.—The Bexd of the Elbow with the Scpeeficl&x Tetxs. Left Side. From a dissection by Dr. Alder Smith in the Museum of St Bartholomew's Hospital. | MEDIA S SEE KB Posterior branch of anastomotica manna BEASCBB8 OF' { I SI EES A L CCTA-A SEO US SEE VE ( Posterior ulnar rein Erachialis aziTietis Anterior branch of anastomotica magna Anterior ulnar rein Median basilic rein MrSCCLAE BE ASCII OF MED I AS SEE YE Tendon of bleeps Bicipital fascia Erachiaiis anticuB Deep median rein Ulnar artery Pronator teres Bad la I artery - -;: Cephalie rein Brachial artery EXIEESAL CCTASEOCS SEE VE Mosnl^iral branch of radial recurrent artery 1 rein Median cephalic rein Ascending br. of radial recurrent EA DIAL SEE VE End ill recurrent 3-upinator Descending br. of radial recurrent Median rein E A DIAL SEE VE ulnar side; at other times, the form of two more or less distinct plexuses, a radial dorsal and an ulnar dorsal: but an exactly similar arrangement is seldom met with in any two consecutive bodies. The distal part of the arch or plexus receives the digital veins from the fingers. These digital veins, two to each finger, start from a minute plexus about the naiL run along the finger, one on either side, to the cleft, where each unites with the vein from the contiguous side of the neighbouring finger, and so form single trunks which proceed upwards to the arch. The veins of the fingers communicate at frequent interval.? by cross branches above and below the interphalangeal joints. Here it may be noted, that whilst the veins which return the chief part of the