THE ARTICULATIONS 202 last inch of the iliac crest to the side of the sacrum external to the second and third posterior sacral foramina. To the outer edge of this ligament is attached the fascia covering the erector spinas muscle. The inferior sacro-iliac ligament (fig. 207) is covered behind by the upper end of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; it consists of strong fibres extending from the lateral border of the sacrum below the articular facet, to the posterior iliac spines; some of the fibres are attached to the deep surface of the ilium and join the interosseous ligament. The interosseous ligament is the strongest of all, and consists of fibres of different lengths passing in various directions between the two bones. Immediately above the interspinous notch of the ilium the fibres of this ligament are very strong, and form an open network, in the interstices of which is a quantity of fat in which the articular vessels ramify. The ear-shaped cartilaginous plate, which unites the bones firmly, is accu- rately applied to the auricular surfaces of the sacrum and ilium. It is about one- twelfth of an inch (2 mm.) thick in the centre, but becomes thinner towards the edges. Though closely adherent to the bones, it tears away from one entirely, or from both partially, on the application of violence, sometimes breaking irregularly so that the greater portion remains connected with one bone, leaving the other bone rough and bare. It is really one mass, and is only occasionally formed of two plates with a synovial cavity between them. Because of the occasional presence of a more or less extensive synovial cavity within the fibro-cartilage, and also of a synovial lining to the ligaments passing in front and behind the articulation, the term ' Diarthro-amphiarthrosis ' has been given to this joint, and also to the symphysis pubis. Testut mentions certain folds of synovial membrane filling up gaps which here and there occur at margin of the fibro-cartilage, but I have not myself seen such. The great or posterior sacro-sciatic ligament (figs. 206, 207 and 208) is attached above to the posterior extremity of the crest of the ilium and the external aspect of the posterior iliac spines. From this attachment some of its fibres pass downwards and backwards to be attached to the outer borders and posterior sur- faces of the. lower three sacral vertebrae and upper two segments of the coccyx; while others, after passing for a certain distance backwards, curve forwards and downwards to the ischium forming the anterior free margin of the ligament where it limits posteriorly the sacro-sciatic foramina. These fibres are joined by others which arise from the posterior surfaces of the lower three sacral vertebrae and upper pieces of the coccyx. At the ischium it is fixed to the inner border of the great tuberosity, and sends a thin sharp process upwards along the ramus of the ischium which is called the falciform process (fig. 208), and is a prolongation of the pos- terior edge of the ligament. A great many fibres pass on directly into the tendon of the biceps muscle, so that traction on this muscle braces up the whole liga- ment, and the coccyx is thus made to move on the sacrum. The ligament may not unfairly be described as a tendinous expansion of the muscle, whereby its action is extended and a more advantageous leverage given. It is broad and flat at its attached ends, but narrower and thicker in the centre, looking like two triangular expansions joined by a flat band, the larger triangle being at the ilium, and the smaller at the ischium. The fibres of the ligament are twisted upon its axis at the narrow part, so that some of the superior fibres pass to the lower border. The posterior surface gives origin to the gluteus maximus muscle, and on it ramify the loops from the posterior branches of the sacral nerves; its anterior sur- face is closely connected at its origin with the small sacro-sciatic ligament, and some fibres of the pyriformis muscle arise from it; below, the obturator interims passes out of the pelvis under its cover, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve pass in. At the ilium, its posterior edge is continuous with the vertebral aponeurosis; while to the anterior edge is attached the thick fascia covering the gluteus medius. The obtura- tor fascia is attached to its falciform edge. It is pierced by the coccygeal branches of the sciatic, and a branch from the fourth sacral nerve. The small sacro-sciatic ligament (figs. 206, 207 and 208) is triangular and thin, springing by a broad base from the lateral border of the sacrum and coccyx, from the front of the sacrum both above and below the level of the fourth sacral