THE ARTERIES 568 the sacrum, external to the sacral chain of the sympathetic, and internal to the anterior sacral foramina, crossing in its course the slips of origin of the pyriformis muscle and the first anterior sacral nerve. On reaching the coccyx it anastomoses in front of that bone with the middle sacral artery, and with the inferior lateral sacral of the opposite side. In this course it gives off:—Posterior or spinal branches, which enter the second, third, and fourth anterior sacral foramina, and, after supplying the spinal membranes and anastomosing with each other, leave the spinal canal by the corresponding posterior sacral foramina, and are distributed to Fig. 369.—The Gluteal Region, with the Gluteal, Sciatic, and Pcdic Aeteeies. (From a dissection by W. J. Walsham in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) The inferior gluteal branch of the sciatic artery has been drawn inwards over the tuber ischii with the reflected origin of the gluteus maximus muscle. Gluteus medius, turned up INFERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE , Gluteus miuimuB Gluteus maximus, cut Internal circumflex artery Obturator externus Insertion of gluteus medius External circumflex artery Muscular branches of sciatic artery Deep branch of gluteal artery SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE Pyriformis perforated by peroneal portion of sciatic nerve edge of gluteus maximus Pudic artery and nerve and nerve to obturator internus Sciatic artery Insertion of gluteus maximus First perforating artery Quadratus femoria Semi-tendinosus Semi-mem branosus Branch of internal circumflex artery Obturator internus with'the two gemelli LESSER SCIATIC NERVE Arteria nervi conies ischiatici POPLITEAL PORTION OF GREA TSCIA TIC NER VE LONG PUDENDAL NERVE PERONEAL PORTION OF GREAT SCIATIC NERVE the muscles and skin over the back of the sacrum; anterior or rectal branches which run forward to the rectum; external branches which are distributed to the pyriformis, coccygeus, and the sacral nerves; and internal branches which pass inwards across the sacrum to anastomose with branches of the middle sacral artery. At times the lateral sacral arteries are exceedingly small, the spinal branches then coming chiefly from the middle sacral. The anastomosing branches between the lateral sacral and middle sacral are usually regarded as sacral arteries dimin- ished in size, and serially homologous with the lumbar and intercostal arteries.