11 THE TYMPANUM The Fallopian canal.—This canal begins at the anterior angle of the superior fossa of the internal auditory meatus, and passes directly outwards to the hiatus Fallopii; it then turns abruptly backwards and forms a horizontal ridge on the inner wall of the tympanum, lying in the angle between it and the tegmen tympani. It passes immediately above the fenestra ovalis, and extends as far backwards as the entrance to the mastoid antrum; here it comes into contact with the inferior aspect of the projection formed by the external semicircular canal. It then turns vertically downwards, running in the angle between the internal and posterior walls of the tympanum to terminate at the stylo-mastoid foramen. The canal is traversed by the facial (seventh) nerve. Numerous openings exist in the walls of this passage. At the hiatus, the greater and smaller superficial petrosal nerves escape from, and a branch from the middle meningeal artery enters, the canal. In the vertical part of its course the cavity of the posterior pyramid opens into it. There is also a small orifice by which the auricular branch of the vagus joins the facial, and near its termination the iter chordae posterius for the chorda tympani nerve leads from it into the tympanum. The vestibule.—This is an oval chamber situated between the base of the internal auditory meatus and the inner wall of the tympanum, with which it com- municates by way of the fenestra OA^alis. Anteriorly the vestibule leads into the cochlea, and posteriorly it receives the extremities of the semicircular canals. It measures about 3 mm. transversely, and is somewhat longer antero-posteriorly. Its inner wall presents at the anterior part a circular depression, the fovea hemispherica, which is finely perforated for the passage of nerve-twigs. This fovea is separated by a vertical ridge (the crista vestibuli) from the vestibular Fig. 49.—The Left Osseous Labyrinth. (After Heine. From a cast.) THE COCHLEA FENESTRA ROTUNDA FENESTRA OVALIS OR VESTIBULI orifice of the aqueductus vestibuli, which passes obliquely backwards to open on the posterior surface of the petrosal bone. The roof contains an oval depression—the fovea hemielliptica. Anteriorly the vestibule leads into the cochlea. Posteriorly it receives the five openings of the semicircular canals. The semicircular canals are three in number. Each forms about two-thirds of a circle; they lie in different planes. One extremity of each canal is dilated to form an ampulla. The superior canal lies transversely to the long axis of the petrosal, and is nearly vertical; its highest limb makes a projection on the anterior surface of the bone. The ampulla is at the outer end; the inner end opens into the vestibule conjointly with the superior limb of the posterior canal. The posterior canal is nearly vertical and lies antero-posteriorly. It is the longest of the three; its upper extremity joins the inner limb of the superior canal, and opens in common with it into the vestibule. The lower is the ampul- lated end. The external canal is placed horizontally and arches outwards; its external limb forms a prominence in the mastoid antrum. This canal is the shortest; its ampulla is at the outer end near the fenestra ovalis. The cochlea.—This is a cone-shaped cavity lying with its base upon the internal auditory meatus, and the apex directed outwards. It measures about five milli- metres in length, and the diameter of its base is about the same. The centre of this cavity is occupied by a column of bone—the modiolus—around which a delicate bony lamella appears to be wound. This lamella is the osseous spiral lamina,