THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 764 external auditory meatus and the mastoid process. In this situation it communi- cates with the auricular branch of the pneumogastric. It supplies the retrahens aurem, and sends a slender twig upwards to the attollens aurem, and ends in a long slender branch, which passes backwards to supply the posterior belly of the oceipito- frontalis. It also receives filaments from the small occipital and posterior auricular nerves, and supplies the oblique and transverse muscles on the inner surface of the pinna. (b) The nerve to the posterior belly of the digastric arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and enters the digastric near the centre of that muscle, or sometimes near its origin. It frequently communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. (c) The nerve to the stylo-hyoid arises at the same level as the preceding nerve, the two nerves sometimes forming a common trunk. It ends in the upper part of the muscle for which it is destined The lingual branch is remarkable for its long course. It arises close to the two small muscular nerves above described. It passes on the outer side of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and gains the side of the pharynx. In this situation it is joined by filaments from the glosso-pharyngeal. It then passes between the palato-glossus muscle and the tonsil, and reaches the base of the tongue, where it ends in filaments to the mucous membrane and in twigs to the palato-glossus and stylo-giossus muscles. (Testut.) (3) Six branches are given off from the two terminal divisions of the facial nerve. These branches traverse the substance of the parotid gland, and emerge at its margin. At their emergence they range from a point on the zygoma, a little in front of the spot where the temporal artery crosses the bone, to the angle of the lower jaw. These branches proceed forwards over the face and front of the neck, and by frequently communicating with one another form a great expanded plexus which is called the pes anserinus. Taken in order from above downwards, the temporo-facial division gives off the following branches: temporal, malar, and infraorbital. The cervico-facial division divides into buccal, supra-mandibular and infra-mandibular branches. The TEMPORO-facial division of the facial nerve runs obliquely upwards and forwards through the substance of the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery and the temporo-maxillary vein on the superficial aspect of those vessels, and terminates, as above described, in three branches. In this course it receives communications from the auriculo-temporal nerve, as mentioned in the description of the fifth nerve. (a) The temporal branch passes upwards through the parotid gland, and emerges at the upper border of the gland at a point a little in front of the temporal artery. It divides into several branches, which communicate with one another and with the malar branch. It also communicates with the temporal branch of the orbital, and with the supraorbital nerve. Its largest branches are distributed to the upper part of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and to the anterior belly of the occipito- frontalis. It also supplies the attrahens aurem, the corrugator supercilii, and, occasionally, the attollens aurem. The fibres which run in the facial nerve to end in the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii, and the frontalis muscles are probably derived from the oculo-motor nucleus of the same side, and pass downwards in the posterior longitudinal bundle to ioin the genu nervi facialis. (Mendel.) (b) The malar branch is a smaller nerve than the preceding. It is directed upwards and forwards to reach the most prominent part of thg malar bone; it supplies the lower part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. It also gives twigs to both eyelids; it communicates with the malar branch of the orbital, with the supra- orbital and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic, with the palpebral twigs derived from the superior maxillary division of the fifth, and with the temporal and infra- orbital branches of the facial. (c) The infraorbital is the largest of the nerves which enter into the pes anser- inus. It escapes from the parotid gland above Stenson's duct, and divides into several branches. These branches communicate freely with one another, and pass