• THE TEMPORAL BONES 37 and a process of dura mater. Occasionally a bristle can be passed along this pas- sage into the vestibule. Above, and anterior to this, is a second slit also lodging a process of the dura mater. This is a remnant of the floccular fossa, so conspicu- ous in the foetus. Posteriorly, this surface has a deep groove for the lateral sinus. The anterior face of the pyramid is separated from the squamosal by the petro-squamous suture, which may persist throughout life. It presents the following points of interest: near the apex it has a shallow depression for the Gas- serian ganglion, and the recess of dura mater (Meckel's cave) in which it lies. Behind these are two small foramina, overshadowed by a thin osseous lip. Of these, the larger and more internal is the hiatus Fallopii, which transmits a small artery from the middle meningeal and the greater petrosal nerve. The smaller and exter- nal foramen is for the lesser petrosal nerve. Still more externally there is a thin translucent plate of bone, the tegmen tympani. Behind, and slightly internal to this, there is a ridge formed by the superior semicircular canal. The inferior or basilar surface is very irregular, and has the following points of interest. At the apex is a quadrilateral smooth space for the tensor tympani and levator palati muscles. Behind this is the large circular orifice of the carotid canal, for the transmission of the carotid artery and a plexus of sympathetic nerves. Internal to this, near the inner border of the bone, is the orifice of the aqueductus cochleae (ductus perilymphaticus). In the adult it transmits a small vein from the cochlea to the internal jugular. Posteriorly is the elliptical jugular fossa with smooth walls for the ampulla which receives the lateral and inferior petrosal sinuses, and forms the commencement of the internal jugular vein. In the ridge of bone between the fossa and the carotid canal there is a small foramen, the tympanic canaliculus, for the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. On the outer wall of the fossa a similar minute foramen, the auricular canaliculus, per- mits the passage inwards of the auricular branch (Arnold's nerve) of the vagus nerve. Behind the fossa is the rough jugular surface, which receives the jugular process of the occipital. Firmly ankylosed to the inner surface of the tympanic plate is the styloid process, varying in length from one to five cm. At its base is the stylo-mastoid foramen, from which issues the facial nerve; the stylo- mastoid artery enters the Fallopian canal through this opening. Running back- wards from this foramen are two grooves; the outer is the digastric groove, from which the digastric muscle arises. The inner is narrower and shallower; it lodges the occipital artery. Of the outer surface, the only part which appears externally is the mastoid process; the rest is occupied by a recess known as the tympanum. The mastoid process is a nipple-shaped prominence of bone, formed partly by the squamosal, but mainly by the petrosal. Its upper limit is the supra-mastoid crest. Below the crest an irregular furrow crosses the surface of the process from the parietal