THE ARTERIES 548 (3) The oesophageal arteries, four or sometimes five in number, arise at intervals from the front of the thoracic aorta, the first coming off just below the left lower bronchial. They usually increase in size from above downwards, the upper coming off more towards the right side of the aorta, the lower more towards the left side. They pass forwards to the oesophagus, supplying that tube and anastomosing with each other and with the descending oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid above, and with the ascending oesophageal branches of the phrenic and gastric arteries below, thus forming a chain of anastomoses along the whole length of the tube. B. Parietal Branches (1) The aortic intercostal arteries, usually ten in number on each side, supply the lower intercostal spaces, the two upper spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. The tenth artery runs along the lower border of the last rib, and would be better called the subcostal artery ; it is similar in its distribution to the other intercostals, but is described separately. The aortic intercostals arise in pairs from the back part of the .thoracic aorta, and at once turning, the one to the right, the other to the left, wind backwards over the front and sides of the vertebral bodies to reach the intercostal spaces, which they follow, and anastomose in front with the anterior intercostals given off from the internal mammary and musculo-phrenic arteries respectively. In foetal life these arteries run almost transversely backwards, or even with a slight inclina- tion downwards, to the intercostal spaces; but after the first year, in consequence of the disproportionate growth of the aorta and vertebral column, the upper inter- costals have to ascend to reach their respective spaces. For convenience of descrip- tion the intercostal arteries may be divided into two portions—the vertebral, which lies upon the bodies of the vertebra?; and the intercostal, which lies in the inter- costal spaces. The vertebral portion.—The arteries in their course round the vertebras differ on the two sides of the body. On the right side the arteries—and especially the upper, in consequence of the aorta lying a little to the left side of the spine in the upper part of its course—are longer than the left. They wind over the front and right side of the vertebra?, being crossed by the thoracic duct and vena azygos major, and covered by the right pleura and lung. The upper are also crossed by the oesophagus. They give off small branches to the bodies of the vertebra? and anterior common ligament. On the left side, as the intercostals wind round the sides of the bodies of the vertebra?, the lower are crossed by the vena azygos minor, the two upper by the left superior intercostal vein, and the two next by the third azygos vein when this is present. They are all covered by the left pleura and lung. The intercostal portion.—In their course through the intercostal spaces the arteries are alike on both sides. They at first cross the intercostal spaces obliquely, in consequence of the downward direction of the ribs, towards the angle of the rib above, and thence are continued forward in the subcostal groove, and anastomose with the superior branches of the anterior intercostals from the internal mammary in the upper spaces, and from the musculo-phrenic in the lower spaces. They lie at first on the external intercostal muscles, being covered in front by the pleura and lung, the endothoracic fascia and the infra-costales muscles. Opposite the heads of the ribs they are crossed by the sympathetic nerve. At the angle of the ribs they pass under cover of the internal intercostal muscles, and thence to their termination lie between the two intercostal muscles. Their situation in the midspace as far as the angle of* the rib should be remembered in performing paracentesis thoracis. To avoid the risk of injuring the vessels, the puncture should not be made further back than the angle of the ribs. They are accompanied by an intercostal nerve and vein, the vein lying above and the nerve below, except in the upper spaces where the artery, having to ascend to reach the space, at first lies below the nerve which passes transversely outwards. The uppermost aortic intercostal artery anastomoses with the superior intercostal from the subclavian, and at times sup- plies almost entirely the second intercostal space. The arteries to the tenth and eleventh spaces on reaching the end of their respective ribs pass between the