THE PENIS 1033 attached to the ischio-pubic rami; and the distal end, pointed somewhat like the tip of a cigar, is plunged into the substance of the glans (fig. 628). The entire length of the corpus cavernosum averages about six inches, and its breadth about half an inch, but it increases in size by one-third or more when its vascular spaces are fully distended. In structure it consists of a sponge-like erectile tissue invested by a strong sheath or tunica albuginea. The sheath is about a line in thickness, white, remarkably tough, and consists of two lamina;, an external, of longitudinal fibres common to both corpora cavernosa; and an internal, of circular fibres surrounding each corpus and forming a mesial septum pectiniforme where the two corpora cavernosa come into contact. The framework of the cavernous structure is formed by a reticular arrangement of fibro-muscular trabecular bands, starting from the inner surface of the albuginea and becoming more slender as they approach the axis of the body. The branches of the supplying artery run in the trabecular and terminate by open- ing into the anastomosing intertrabecular spaces which represent the widely dilated capillaries of the organ. The corpus spongiosum lies in the middle line and below the united corpora cavernosa. Unlike the latter it has no direct attachment to the pelvic bones, but terminates at each end in a bulbous expansion. It may be divided into a glans, a body, and a bulb. The anterior enlargement, or glans, is somewhat heart-shaped, its base extend- ing much farther over the dorsal than over the ventral aspect of the corpora caver- Fig. 628.—Transverse Section of the Penis through the Base of the Glans. CORPUS SPONGIOSUM (GLANS) DISTAL EXTREMITY OF CORPUS CAVERNOSUM URETHRA CORPUS SPONGIOSUM Integument nosa, and showing a distinct indication of division into two lateral lobes in the latter situation. The most prominent part of the base is called the corona glandis, and the groove behind this is the neck of the penis or balano-preputial furrow. At its tip it presents a vertical fissure about one-third of an inch in length, the external urinary meatus or outlet of the urethra. The glans is composed of erectile tissue with coarse trabecule, and is covered with a firmly adherent layer of skin continuous with the inner layer of the prepuce. Its capacity for vascular engorgement is much less than that of the corpus caverno- sum or the rest of the corpus spongiosum, and it does not attain a like degree of hardness during erection. The structural continuity of the glans with the corpus spongiosum is probably not morphological. The recent investigations of Retterer indicate that the greater portion of the glans is developed separately as a part of the cutaneous and fibrous envelope of the penis, and becomes erectile as a later change. The body of the corpus spongiosum is cylindrical, uniform in diameter, and traversed axially in its whole length by the urethra ; it is lodged above in a groove between the two corpora cavernosa, while its ventral aspect is subcutaneous except where it corresponds to the attachment of the scrotum. Structurally it is provided with a thin albuginea, between which and the urethra lies a narrow layer of erectile tissue. The bulb is formed by an expansion of the erectile structure, and the portion of the urethra by which it is traversed undergoes a well-marked dilatation, and lies