OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN 193 behind, with the posterior common ligament; laterally, with the short lateral; and in the thoracic region with the interarticular and stellate ligaments. The anterior common ligament (figs. 194 and 200) commences as a narrow band attached to the under surface of the occipital bone in the median line, just in front of the occipito-atlantal ligament, of which it forms the thickened central portion. Attached firmly to the tubercle of the atlas, it passes down as the central portion of the atlanto-axoidean ligament, in the mid-line, to the front of the body of the axis. It now begins to widen out as it descends, until it is nearly two inches (5 cm.) wide in the lumbar region. Below, it is fixed to the upper segment of the sacrum, becoming lost in periosteum about the middle of that bone; but is again distinguishable in front of the sacro-coccygeal joint, as the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament. Its structure is bright, pearly-white, and glistening with well-defined borders best marked in the thoracic region. It is thickest in the thoracic region, and thicker in the lumbar than the cervical. It is firmly connected with the bodies of the vertebra?, and is composed of longitudinal Fig. 202.—Posterior Common Ligament. (Lumbar region.) Median band Expanded lateral portion fibres, of which the superficial extend over several, while the deeper pass over only j two or three vertebra?. It is connected with the tendinous expansion of the prever- tebral muscles in the cervical, and the crura of the diaphragm are closely attached to it in the lumbar region. The posterior common ligament (figs. 198, 201, 202, and 209) extends from the occipital bone to the coccyx. It is wider above than below, and commences by a broad attachment to the cranial surface of the basi-occipital. In the cervical I region it is of nearly uniform width, and extends completely across the bodies of the vertebra?, upon which it rests quite flat. It does, however, extend slightly | further outwards on each side opposite the intervertebral discs. In the thoracic and | lumbar regions it is distinctly dentated, being broader over the intervertebral sub- j stances and the edges of the bones, than over the middle of the bodies, where it is a narrow band stretched over the bones without resting on them, some areolar I tissue and blood-vessels being interposed. The narrow median portion consists of longitudinal fibres, some of which are superficial and pass over several vertebra?; 13