MEDIAN AND ULNAR NERVES 793 It also supplies a branch to the interosseous membrane which runs downwards upon, or in, the membrane supplying it and giving branches to the anterior inter- osseous and medullary arteries and to the periosteum of the radius and ulna. (d) The palmar cutaneous branch arises immediately above the anterior annular ligament and passes between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and the palmaris longus. It then crosses the superficial surface of the annular liga- ment, is distributed to the integument and fascia on the central depressed surface of the palm, and supplies a few twigs to the inner border of the thenar eminence; these twigs communicate with the musculo-cutaneous and radial nerves. (e) The external terminal division gives off a branch which supplies the abductor, the opponens, and the superficial head of the flexor brevis pollicis S muscles, then it divides into two branches. The outer branch passes obliquely 1 across the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and runs along the radial border of the Fig. 458.—Superficial Nekves of the Palm. (Ellis.) thumb as far as its extremity. It gives numerous branches to the pulp of the thumb, and a strong twig which passes on to the dorsum to supply the matrix of the nail. The inner branch, after running a course varying from an eighth to a half an inch, divides into two digital collateral branches. The outer collateral branch supplies the ulnar side of the volar aspect of the thumb, and gives off a [ twig to the matrix of the thumb nail. The inner collateral branch is distributed in a similar manner to the radial side of the index finger. It gives off a twig to | supply the first lumbrical muscle. (/) The internal terminal division divides into an outer and an inner branch. The outer branch gives a twig to supply the second lumbrical muscle, and divides a little above the metacarpophalangeal articulation into collateral branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, and also give twigs to the dorsum of each of these digits. These dorsal twigs will be more particularly