THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 964 An oblique layer, continuous with the circular fibres of the oesophagus. They pass to the left of the oesophagus towards the great curvature. They unite finally with the circular fibres (fig. 569). The submucous coat is made up of areolar tissue, in which the blood-vessels break up. The mucous or internal coat is pink in colour and soft to the touch, and when the stomach is not distended has a rugose appearance. It is covered with columnar epithelium, and with a lens shows the openings of numerous glands. A thin layer of muscular tissue—the muscularis mucosse—supports the mucous membrane ex- ternally. The mucous membrane is thickest in the pyloric area and thinnest over the great cul-de-sac. In the stomachs of young persons the surface of the stomach may be studded by little elevations due to local accumulations of lymphoid tissue. Nerves.—The nerves of the stomach are the right and left pneumogastric, the right nerve passing over the posterior surface, and the left over the anterior. The organ is also connected with the sympathetic system by means of the solar plexus. Blood-supply.—The stomach receives its blood-supply from many branches. From the cceliac axis there is the gastric artery, which runs along the lesser curve from left to right, anastomosing with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. Along the greater curve run the right and left gastro-epiploic arteries, anastomosing at the middle of the border, the left being a branch of the splenic, the right a branch of the hepatic through the gastro-duodenal artery. The stomach also receives branches from the splenic (vasa brevia) at the fundus. The blood of the stomach is returned into the portal vein. The coronary vein and pyloric vein open separately into the portal vein; the right gastro-epiploic vein opens into the superior mesenteric, the left into the splenic. Lymphatics.—There is a set of glands lying along the greater and the lesser curvatures, and others at the pyloric and cardiac ends. These are entered by lymphatic vessels beginning in the mucous membrane. THE INTESTINES THE SMALL INTESTINE The small intestine is that part of the intestinal canal which lies between the pylorus and the ileo-csecal valve. It is conveniently divided into three portions: the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. It is of the average length in the adult male (between the ages of twenty and fifty) of twenty-two feet six inches. In the female it is longer, the average length being twenty-three feet four inches. The length is independent, in the adult at least, of age, height, or weight. The length may vary in the male from thirty-one feet ten inches to fifteen feet six inches. In the female, from twenty-nine feet four inches to nineteen feet ten inches. With the exception of the duodenum, the small intestine lies for the most part inside the more fixed portions of the large intestine (figs. 565, 578). It is also, with the exception of the duodenum, connected to the posterior abdominal wall by a process of peritoneum, the mesentery. This broad membrane is seen to extend from above downwards, and from left to right from the duodenum above to the ileo- cecal valve below, enclosing the jejunum and ileum along the whole of their ex- tent (figs. 561, 563, and 599). The duodenum—the first portion of the small intestine—is, unlike the other parts of that bowel, very definite in position and extent. It is that part which is not contained by the mesentery. It is formed from the end of the embryonic fore- gut, and its peculiar position behind the transverse colon is due to the rotation from left to right of the intestine in the foetus (page 995). It is the most fixed as well as the widest part of the small intestine. It measures one and a half to two inches