THE MUSCLES 392 Nerve-supply.—From the anterior tibial nerve by small filaments which enter the deep surface of the muscle near its inner border as it crosses the cuboid and external cuneiform bones. Action.—(1) To extend the four inner toes. In the case of the outer toes the two last phalanges will be chiefly extended, and the obliquity of its insertion, by causing it to draw the toes somewhat outwards at the same time that it extends them, will enable it to correct the opposite tendency of the long extensor. (2) The innermost tendon will act as an adductor of the first phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—Superficially, the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius; deeply, the tarsal and tarso-metatarsal joints; and, in the case of the tendon to the great toe, the dorsalis pedis vessels and the termination of the anterior tibial nerve. Variations.—The number of tendons may be diminished or increased. Sometimes a tendon is given to the little toe. Accessory bundles may be derived from some of the tarsal or meta- tarsal bones, and slips have been found running to the dorsal interossei; and also a small slip between the first and second bellies, going to the inner side of the second toe or its metatarsal bone. 3IUSCLES ON THE OUTER SIDE OF THE LEG Tbese are two muscles—the peroneus longus and brevis—situated upon the outer side of the fibula in a compartment of quadrilateral section, bounded internally by the fibula, in front and behind by intermuscular septa, and externally by the deep fascia of the leg. 1. PERONEUS LONGUS The peroneus longus (figs. 292 and 29(3)—named from its being the longer of the two fibular muscles—is long and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The outer tuberosity of the tibia by a few fibres; (2) the front of the head of the fibula; (3) the upper two-thirds of the outer (or peroneal) surface of the fibula, occupying the whole of this surface above, and the posterior half of it below; (4) the inner surface of the deep fascia of the leg, and the opj)Osed sur- faces of the two external intermuscular septa. Insertion.—(1) The lower part of the outer surface of the base of the first metatarsal bone; (2) the lower part of the outer surface of the internal cuneiform bone close to its articulation with the first metatarsal bone. Structure.—This is a strong penniform muscle, the short fleshy fibres of which pass downwards, and for the most part forwards, to be inserted into the tendon' which, beginning about three inches (7'5 cm.) below the head of the fibula, runs along the front of the outer surface of the muscle, and becomes free in the lower third of -the leg. It then passes behind the outer ankle, beneath the external annular ligament, in a special sheath with the tendon of the peroneus brevis, which lies in front of it. On the outer surface of the calcaneum, it runs forwards and downwards in a special compartment of the external annular ligament below the companion tendon. At the outer border of the foot it again changes its direction, and passes obliquely inwards and forwards across the sole of the foot, in a canal formed by the long plantar ligament beneath, and by the groove in the cuboid bone above, to its insertion near the inner side of the sole. In the upper two-thirds of the leg the peroneus longus almost entirely conceals from view the peroneus brevis, which lies beneath and slightly anterior to it. The synovial tube which it enters at the outer ankle is common to it and the peroneus brevis, and bifurcates to accompany the two tendons where they are separated by the peroneal tubercle of the os calcis. A second sheath envelopes the