1009 THE KIDNEYS ligaments, which give origin to a large portion of the posterior fibres, are attached to the tip of the transverse process of the second lumbar vertebra instead of that of the first. The pleura has an indirect but important relation to the kidney besides the more direct relation at the 'hiatus diaphragmaticus' referred to above. The inferior limit of the pleural sac extends almost horizontally outwards from the lower border of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, crossing the last rib near its neck, and the eleventh rib about two inches farther outwards. As a rule, the incision in renal operations may be carried safely to the lower border of the last rib; but, should this bone be absent or very short, the eleventh rib may be mistaken for it, and the serous mem- brane would then be in danger. It is probable, too, that the pleura reaches to a lower point in those cases where the arcuate ligaments are attached to the second lumbar transverse process. The presence of a thirteenth rib would involve a con- traction of the space available for the surgical exploration of the organ. The upper extremity of each kidney is crowned by the suprarenal body (figs. 611, 612), which encroaches also upon its anterior surface and inner border, and is fixed to it by connective tissue derived from the subperitoneal fascia, The anterior or visceral surface (fig. 612) is moulded to the contiguous organs. The right kidney is in contact in about its upper half with the renal impression on the liver (page 978), and below with the ascending colon and duodenum; the hepatic area being covered with peritoneum, while the second stage of the duodenum and more externally the ascending colon are directly attached to the surface by subperitoneal tissue; but the two non-peritoneal areas vary consid- erably in their relative proportions, not only in different subjects, but in the same subject under different conditions of distension of the duodenum and the colon. The second stage of the duodenum is also more or less in relation with the right renal vessels. The left kidney lies behind the stomach, the pancreas, the splenic vessels, the descending colon, and the colic vessels. Its anterior surface may be divided into three portions: an upper or gastric area, separated from the stomach by the peritoneum of the lesser sac; a middle or pancreatic area, attached to the pan- creas by subperitoneal connective tissue, and crossed also by the splenic vein behind the upper border of the pancreas, and by the splenic artery, which runs in a serpentine course immediately above the vein; and an inferior or colic area, the outer portion of which is covered by the splenic flexure and upper part of the descending colon; the inner by a layer of peritoneum (of the greater sac) and the colic vessels. 64