1016 THE URINARY ORGANS of the papillae above, and with that of the bladder below. Mucous follicles of sim- ple form have been found in the upper part of the canal. The muscularis is about one-fiftieth of an inch (.5 mm.) in thickness, and consists of two layers, an exter- nal composed of annular fibres, an internal of fibres longitudinally disposed. After the tube has entered the bladder the circular fibres appear as a kind of sphincter around its vesical orifice; while the longitudinal fibres spread out to form with those of the opposite side a triangular expanse with its apex at the internal urinary meatus and its base corresponding to a line drawn between the two ureteric orifices, the upper (interureteric) and lower (uretero-meatal) fibres forming strong bands which bound the triangle. Vessels and nerves.—The arteries of the ureter come from the renal, sper- matic or utero-ovarian, internal iliac, and vesical; the veins terminate in the corre- sponding trunks; and the lymphatics pass to the renal, lumbar, and pelvic glands and into the receptaculum chyli. The nerves are supplied by the spermatic, renal, and hypogastric plexuses. Varieties.—The most important variation consists in the partial or complete duplication of the tube owing to the late union or to the non-union of the superior and inferior infundibula or pelves. In rare cases three pelves may in like manner remain separate in part or in the whole of their course to the bladder. THE BLADDER The urinary bladder is a receptacle, of which the form, size, and position vary with the amount of its contents. The adult organ in its empty or moderately filled condition lies entirely below the level of the oblique plane of the pelvic inlet; but when considerably distended it rises into the abdomen and shows itself beneath the parietes as a characteristic mesial projection above the symphysis, a projection which in certain cases may extend nearly to the level of the umbilicus. It is invested over its whole extent by recto-vesical fascia, and is partially covered above and behind by peritoneum ( fig. 617). Form.—When fully distended it assumes in the male an ovoid shape with its longest diameter directed downwards and backwards, but in women the transverse diameter is commonly the greatest, owing to the different shape of the pelvic cavity. In the child it is somewhat pear-shaped, the stalk being represented by the urachus. The form of the empty bladder is still doubtful, as the appearances in the dead subject do not necessarily coincide with the condition existing during life. In mesial sagittal section it usually appears somewhat cup-shaped, its upper wall pre- senting a rounded or pyramidal hollow to the intestines, while its cavity is repre- sented by a T or Y-shaped fissure (as in plate 1 of Symington's 'Anatomy of the Child'). It is probable that this 'diastolic' form, as it has been termed, is not altogether the normal result of a relaxation preliminary to refilling; but is partly due to the loss of vital elasticity of the muscular wall, and that the healthy living bladder maintains a rounded or ovoid form even when empty. The three terms, ' apex ' or ' superior fundus,' ' inferior fundus,' and ' neck,' are commonly applied to parts of the bladder: the first to the point of attachment of the superior ligament or urachus (a relic of the tube of communication between the bladder and allantois) which connects it with the umbilicus; the second to the lower part of the organ, and the third to the point at which the vesical cavity becomes continuous with the urethra; but the expressions are all more or less objectionable, and serve no useful purpose. Under ordinary distension the so-called ' apex' is as much rounded as the rest of the viscus; the anatomical limits of the 'inferior fundus' are still undefined; and the only 'neck' that can be assigned to the blad- der is represented by the prostate and prostatic urethra. Relations.—The bladder when moderately filled may be said to present for