455 SCALENUS MEDIUS—SCALENUS POSTICUS and laterally, and to rotate it so as to turn the face to the opposite side; (2) it will raise the first rib, especially in forced inspiration. Relations.—In front lie the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid, and subclavius, the internal jugular vein, the subclavian vein and phrenic nerve; on the inner side are the rectus capitis anticus major, longus colli, the vertebral vessels, and the sympa- thetic cord; on the outer side and behind emerge the anterior primary branches of the cervical nerves separating it from the scalenus medius; and lower down it crosses in front of the second part of the subclavian artery and the pleura. 2. SCALENUS MEDIUS The scalenus medius—named from its shape and position—is an elongated triangular sheet. Origin.—The upper surface of the first rib between the tuberosity and the groove for the subclavian artery. Insertion.—The front of the posterior tubercles of the six lower cervical vertebra?, and frequently also the lower part of the lateral mass of the atlas. Structure.—Arising by a broad band, tendinous in front and muscular behind, the fleshy fibres form a thick sheet of slightly divergent fibres, which run upwards and inwards to end upon the vertebrae in six short tendons. Nerve-supply.—The anterior primary branches of the cervical nerves as soon as they emerge supply numerous filaments to the inner part of its anterior surface. Action.—Acting from below, to flex the neck laterally; acting from above, to raise the first rib as in forced inspiration, or to fix it in ordinary inspiration. Relations.—In front lie the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid, and trapezius, the subclavian artery, cervical and brachial plexuses; behind, it is in contact with the levator anguli scapula? and scalenus posticus. 3. SCALENUS POSTICUS The scalenus posticus—named from its form and position—is a triangular sheet. Origin.—The upper part of the outer surface of the second rib behind the rough prominence for the serratus magnus. Insertion.—The lower surface of the posterior tubercles of the two or three lowest cervical vertebra?. Structure.—Arising partly directly from the bone, and partly by a short apo- neurosis which covers the outer and posterior part of the origin, its fleshy fibres converge and are inserted by three short tendons. Nerve-supply.—Small filaments which come from the lower three cervical nerves at their points of emergence, and, after passing through the scalenus medius, enter the front service of the muscle. Action.—When the rib is fixed, to flex the lower part of the neck laterally, and acting from above, to raise the second rib, especially in forced inspiration. Relations.—In front lies the scalenus medius; behind, the levator anguli scapula?. Variations of the scaleni.—The scalenus posticus may be absent. The scalenus medius may arise as low as the third rib. A portion of the scalenus anticus may be separate from the rest, and pass behind the subclavian artery.