SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1184 Dislocation of the patella.—The following anatomical facts account for this taking place much more frequently outwards:—(1) The inner edge of the patella is more prominent, and thus more exposed to injury; it is also well supported, as is seen when, the parts being relaxed, the fingers are insinuated beneath each border. (2) The pull of the extensor upon the patella, ligamentum patella?, and tibia is somewhat outwards, as the tibia is directed a little outwards to the femur, to meet the inward direction of this bone; the femora being directed inwards here' to bring the knee-joints nearer the centre of gravity, and, so, counterbalance their wide separation above at the pelvis. The outward pull of the quadriceps upon the patella is, in all normal action of the muscle, counteracted by the space taken in the trochlear surface by the external condyle, this being wider and creeping up higher, and having a more prominent and thus protective lip. In violent contrac- tion, however, these counteracting points may be overcome. The condyles and tuberosities.—It should be noted that on the inner side the prominence of the internal condyle is well marked, and that of the tibial tuber- osity is less so, while on the outer side this condition is reversed. Descending to the outer tuberosity, the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata can be traced. The more distinct outer tuberosity is a good landmark for opening the joint in amputation and excision. It also indicates the lower level of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Farther back is the biceps and long external lateral ligament. The Fig. 750.—Horizontal Section of the Knee-joint. (One-half.) External saihena vein gap on the inner side between condyle and tuberosity is the place for feeling for a displaced internal fibro-cartilage in ' internal derangement' of the knee. On each condyle, posteriorly, in a thin subject can be felt its tubercle, which gives attachment to the lateral ligament. Owing to their being placed behind the centre of the bone these ligaments become tight in extension. On the upper part of the internal condyle the adductor tubercle and the vertical tendon of the adductor magnus can be felt during flexion. This bony point is a guide to the lower epiph- ysis of the femur, one of the latest to join, uniting with the shaft about the twenty-first year. Here the exostoses in adolescents arise. The inner aspect of this condyle faces practically in the same direction as the head of the femur. Ligamentum patellae and tubercle of tibia.—These, in a well-formed leg, should, with the centre of the ankle-joint, be all in the same straight line, a useful point in the adjustment of fractures (Holden). Behind the upper half of the ligament is the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; below, the lower is separated from the tibia by a deep bursa. In connection with all the posterior surface is fat, which serves as a useful packing in the different movements of flexion and ex- tension. The tubercle of the tibia is on a level with the head of the fibula. Prepatellar bursa.—This usually protects the patella and upper part of the ligamentum patellae. It is liable to be enlarged in those who habitually kneel much. Its close connection with the patella and, at the sides, with the joint itself is to be remembered in inflammations of the bursa. Usually, two processes of