THE ARTERIES 524 magnus, sends branches round the lower border of the pectoralis major to the mammary gland, and terminates in the intercostal muscles by anastomosing with the aortic intercostals and the internal mammary. It also furnishes branches to the glands of the axilla. The branches to the mammary gland in the female are often of large size. 2. The alar thoracic are small branches given off either directly from the axil- lary artery to the lymphatic glands in the axilla, or from some of the other branches of the first or second part of the axillary artery. Branches of the Third Part of the Axillary Artery 1. The subscapular artery is the largest branch of the axillary. It arises opposite the lower border of the subscapularis, and runs downwards and inwards Fig. 348.—The Eight Posterior Circumflex Artery. (From a dissection by Mr. Homer in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) Infra-spinatus, cut ACROMIAL PROCESS Suprascapular artery SPINE OF SCAPULA Teres minor Superior profunda artery Posterior circumflex artery Deltoid, reflected MUSCVLO-SPIRAL NERVE Outer head of triceps L EXTERNA L CUT A NEO US BRANCH OF MUSCULO- SPIRAL NERVE Infra-spinatus, cut Teres major Dorsal scapular artery Branch of dorsal scapular arterii Long head of triceps NERVE TO TERES MINOR CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF CIRCUMFLEX NERVE, CUT along the anterior border of that muscle under cover of the latissimus dorsi as far as the angle of the scapula, where it anastomoses with the dorsal scapular, pos- terior scapular, long thoracic, infrascapular, and the intercostal arteries. The long subscapular nerve accompanies it. It supplies the subscapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and serratus magnus muscles, and gives branches to the glands in the axillary space. The course of this large vessel along the posterior border of the axilla should be remembered in opening abscesses in the axilla, and in remov- ing enlarged glands from this space. It is accompanied by two veins, which usually unite and then receive the dorsal scapular vein, and open as a single vein of large size either into the axillary or at the confluence of the inner brachial vena comes with the basilic vein. About an inch to an inch and a half from its origin, the subscapular artery gives off the following large branch:—