451 MYL 0-HYOID—GEXIO-HYOID Origin.—The whole length of the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the body of the mandible. Insertion.—(1) The lower edge of the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone; (2) a median raphe extending from the middle of the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone to the back of the symphysis of the mandible immediately below the genial tubercles. Structure.—Arising by fleshy and short tendinous fibres intermingled, the muscle passes inwards and slightly downwards to its insertion by short tendinous fibres into the median raphe and hyoid bone. Sometimes the fleshy fibres are here and there continuous with those of the other side. Each of them is somewhat arched, so that the whole sheet has a slight downward convexity. The muscles of the two sides together form a curved diaphragm which stretches across the angle contained between the two portions of the mandible. Nerve-supply.—From the third (or mandibular) division of the fifth cranial nerve, by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental which enters the under surface of the muscle by several filaments. Action.—(1) To raise the tongue, the floor of the mouth, and the hyoid bone, as in mastication and the first part of swallowing. By its elevation of the hyoid bone it will also exert some influence on the larynx and lower part of the pharynx. These actions will be most efficiently carried out when the jaw is closed. (2) Acting from below, it will help in the depression of the lower jaw and in opening the mouth. Relations.—Upon its under surface lie the superficial portion of the submax- illary gland, the submental artery, and the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. Above, it is in contact with the genio-hyoid and hyo-glossus, the sublingual gland, the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, and the hypoglossal nerve. Variations.—The mylohyoid may be closely connected with the anterior belly of the digastric. Openings are sometimes found in the muscular sheet, containing lobules of the submaxillary gland. 4. GENIO-HYOID The genio-hyoid—named from its attachment to the chin (yivetov) and the hyoid bone—is somewhat fusiform, but flattened from above downwards behind, and from side to side in front. Origin.—The lower genial tubercle. Insertion.—The anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. Structure.—Arising by a short tendon, its fibres pass backwards and slightly downwards, close to those of the corresponding muscle of the other side. Near the hyoid bone they spread out laterally, and occupy nearly the whole of the upper and anterior surface of the body, sometimes even a small portion of the greater cornu. Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal nerve, which sends filaments to the deep surface. Action.—(1) To raise and draw forwards the hyoid bone; (2) to draw down the mandible. In its direction and action it is closely related to the anterior belly of the digastric. Relations.—Superficially, the mylo-hyoid muscle; deeply, the genio-hyo- glossus; on its median surface, the corresponding muscle of the other side. Variations.—The genio-hyoid may be double, or it may form one muscle with its fellow of the opposite side. THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE The tongue consists chiefly of muscular tissue, part of which arises from the adjacent bones, while the rest is made up of bands of fibre which pass in various directions in its substance, and have no external attachment. The latter or intrinsic