BASAL GANGLIA 699 Dissection.—The student should slice away the left hemisphere and expose the lateral ven- tricle of that side, leaving the central portion of the corpus callosum in situ for the present. He should then make a series of horizontal sections through the island of Reil and corpus striatum of the left side. If he has carried out the dissection as recommended on the right side, he will now be in a position to study the corpus striatum both in horizontal and vertical section, and at the same time to examine its intraventricular part more fully. The horizontal sections will pass through both nuclei of the corpus striatum with the inner and outer capsules, the claustrum, and a portion of the optic thalamus (fig. 419). Basal Ganglia of the Hemispheres A series of ganglionic masses is placed in the base of each cerebral hemisphere. They are subjacent (with the exception of the amygdaloid nucleus) to the island of Reil and form, with that lobe, the oldest part of the hemisphere; that is to say, they constitute the portion which is (as already mentioned) the first to appear both in the vertebrate series and also in the development of the individual. They are ; all semi-detached local thickenings of the grey cortex, and may be enumerated as I follows:—the corpora striata, each composed of two nuclei, the nucleus caudatus and the nucleus lenticularis; the claustra, and the amygdaloid nuclei. The optic | thalami are in close proximity to the corpora striata, but belong to the thalam- I encephalon. Certain important fasciculi of white matter are intimately related I to the corpora striata. The chief of these white fasciculi are the inner and outer j capsules, the anterior commissure, and the taenia semicircularis. The nucleus caudatus is an elongated mass of grey matter somewhat resem- bling a pear with a long curved stalk. It presents a free, or ventricular, surface, and a surface which is embedded in the hemisphere. It is thickest at the anterior end, ' or head. The free surface of the anterior thickened portion looks upwards and inwards, and bulges into the anterior horn of the lateral ventricle. Thence it ascends with an inclination outwards to the body of the ventricle, where it forms the outermost constituent of the floor of that cavity, and narrows into the com- mencement of the tail. In this situation it is separated from the optic thalamus by the lamina cornea and tsenia semicircularis. The tail of the nucleus caudatus then passes into the descending cornu. It is placed at first in front of the cornu, after- wards forms part of the roof of that cavity, and ends at the amygdaloid tubercle. The deep surface of the caudate nucleus is separated from the nucleus lenticularis i by a layer of white matter called the inner capsule. The two nuclei are, however, connected by bands of grey matter which intersect the fibres of the anterior limb of the inner capsule, and they are directly continuous for a short distance in front. The nucleus lenticularis is embedded in the substance of the hemisphere except at the base of the brain, where it comes to the surface for a small part of its extent at the anterior perforated space. Here it is continuous externally with the claustrum and, as before stated, with the nucleus caudatus. In horizontal section it appears like a bi-convex lens, with its surface directed outwards and inwards, the outer surface forming a curve of larger radius than the inner. In sagittal section the lenticular nucleus is also somewhat lens-shaped in outline (fig. 417). In coronal sections through the anterior part it appears crescentic, with the convexity turned downwards and outwards (fig. 415); but in successive sections taken from before backwards the crescentic gives place to a triangular or wedge-shaped outline (fig. 421). In fresh brains this grey mass can be seen to be traversed by thin white intersections, the internal and external medullary laminae, which divide it into three zones. The middle and inner zones are of a yellowish grey colour, and constitute the globus pallidus. The outer zone is of a darker reddish grey, and is traversed with fine white striae. It is called the putamen. The putamen is the longest part of the lenticular nucleus, and is the only portion of that body which is continuous with the caudate nucleus. The above agrees substantially with the account which is given by Schwalbe ; this anato- mist, however, describes the amygdaloid nucleus as discontinuous with the tail of the caudate nucleus. According to Foster and Sherrington, the globus pallidus of the lenticular nucleus as well as the putamen is continuous with the caudate nucleus. A band of white fibres, the ansa lenticularis, passes inwards below the inner capsule. It emerges from the under surface of the lenticular nucleus, being continued from the medullary