THE OCCIPITAL 25 The squamo-occipital is saucer-shaped, deeply concave on its cerebral, but convex on its external aspect. It consists of two parts which have different modes of origin. The posterior surface is divided by a ridge, the superior nuchal line, into a lozenge-shaped superior portion with a smooth surface and an inferior rough portion. The upper is the interparietal, and the lower the supra-occipital seg- ment. The interparietal portion not infrequently persists as an independent ossicle (fig. 35). The supra-occipital is divided into two lateral halves by a median vertical ridge —the external occipital crest—which ascends from the middle of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, to terminate at the external occipital protuber- ance, or inion, near the middle of the squamo-occipital. The protuberance and crest give attachment to the ligamentum nucha?. Each lateral half of the supra-occipital presents three pairs of transverse ridges, the nuchal lines. Of these the superior is usually the least conspicuous, but most curved; frequently it is absent; beginning at the external occipital protuber- ance, it curves outwards to the lateral angle. It affords attachment to the epi- cranial aponeurosis and to few fibres of the occipito-frontalis muscle. Fig. 30.—The Occipital. (External view.) Trapezius INION OR EXTERNAL-OCCIPITAL PROTUBERANCE The middle nuchal line (sometimes called the superior curved line) commences a little distance below the protuberance, and curves outwards to end below the lateral angle. In some cases the superior and middle nuchal lines are confluent in their outer thirds, and form a prominent ridge for the insertion of the sterno- mastoid and splenius capitis muscles. When these muscles are well developed, there is a fairly wide interval between the lines. The inferior nuchal line begins near the middle of the crest and curves down- wards to the jugular process. Of the spaces deliminated by these lines, that between the superior and middle is occupied by the trapezius, and frequently by the sierno-mastoid and splenius capitis muscles. The space between the middle and inferior receives the complexus and superior oblique, and the space between the inferior line and the foramen magnum is occupied by the rectus capitis posticus minor, and the rectus capitis posticus major muscles. The cerebral surface is deeply concave, and divided by crucial ridges into four fosste, of which the upper two accommodate the occipital lobes of the cere- brum, the lower pair the cerebellar hemispheres. The ridges intersect one another, and at the point where they cross, an eminence, the internal occipital protuber-