OF THE RADIUS WITH THE ULNA 231 downwards and outwards to be attached to the posterior edge of the lower end of the bicipital tuberosity of the radius and the vertical ridge running from it to the inner border of the bone. Some of its fibres blend with the fibres of insertion of the biceps tendon; behind, it is in close contact with the supinator brct-is ; below, a thin membrane passes off from it to the upper edge of the interosseous membrane; the posterior interosseous vessels pass in the space between it and the interosseous membrane; occasionally a slip is continued into the orbicular liga- ment of the superior radio-ulnar articulation (see fig. 230 A). The interosseous membrane (fig. 228) is attached to the ulna at the lowest part of the ridge in front of the depression for the supinator brevis, and along the whole length of the interosseous border as far as the inferior radio-ulnar articulation, approaching the front of the bone in the lower part of its attachment. To the radius it is attached along the interosseous border, from an inch (2-5 cm.) below the bicipital tuberosity to the sigmoid notch for the lower end of the ulna. It is strongest and broadest in the centre, where the fibres are dense and closely packed; it is also well marked beneath the pronator quadratus, and thickens considerably at the lower end, forming a strong band of union between the two bones. Its fibres pass chiefly downwards and inwards, from the radius to the ulna, though some Fig. 230 A.—Upper Portions of Left Ulna and Radius with Oblique and Orbicular Ligaments : to Show an Occasional Slip from the Oblique Ligament to the Lower Part of the Orbicular Ligament. This condition is present in the spider monkey (Ateles), which has no external thumb but only rudimentary bones of one. (From a dissection by Mr. W. Pearson, Eoyal College of Surgeons, England.) Orbicular ligament Occasional slip from oblique liga ment to orbicular ligament Oblique ligament take the opposite direction; at the lower end some are transverse. On the posterior surface are one or two bands, which pass downwards and outwards from the ulna to the radius, and frequently there is a strong bundle as large as the oblique liga- ment; this, which should be called the inferior oblique ligament (fig. 234), stretches from the ulna, an inch and a half above its lower extremity, downwards and outwards to the ridge above and behind the sigmoid notch of the radius. At its attachment to the bones, the interosseous membrane blends with the periosteum. Its upper border is connected with the oblique ligament by a thin membrane, which is pierced by the posterior interosseous vessels; and the lower border, which stretches across between the two bones just above the inferior radio- ulnar articulation, assists in completing the capsule of that joint. Its anterior surface is in relation with the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis in the upper three-quarters, the lower fourth being in relation with the pronator quadratus. The anterior interosseous vessels and nerve descend along the middle of the membrane, the artery being bound down to it. About an inch from the lower end, it is pierced by the anterior interosseous artery. The posterior surface is in relation with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi, extensor primi, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and the extensor indicis; at its lower part, also with the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous artery.