988 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION THE SPLEEN Position.—The spleen—one of the ductless glands—is situated for the most part in the left hypochondriac region (figs. 577, 591). It is deeply placed between the fundus of the stomach and the diaphragm, and in the line of the axilla it extends between the eighth and eleventh ribs. It is covered by the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs (fig. 583), and is separated from them by the diaphragm, and to a smaller extent by the lung. Its upper end reaches to the level of the ninth thoracic spine, and its lower end to the level of the first lumbar spine. Its inner extremity is within two inches of the median plane of the body, and its outer boundary is posterior to the mid-axillary line. A line drawn from the left sterno- clavicular joint to the tip of the eleventh left rib bounds the anterior margin of the spleen. It is bluish-red in colour, is soft, and easily lacerated. Its shape varies, and depends much upon the condition in which it is exam- ined. If soft, and as usually found after removal from the body, it can only be- said to have two surfaces, an outer convex and an inner concave; but if examined after it has been hardened in situ, after the manner of Professor His, it is seen to be of a much more precise shape, and to present three surfaces (fig. 590). Viewed from the outside, it presents a form which is irregularly oval, wider above than below, with a bulging of the anterior border (fig. 588). The three surfaces are the external, anterior, and inner. The external or posterior surface is the largest. It is regularly convex, and is directed outwards and backwards and somewhat upwards (figs. 588, 590). It lies against the commencement of the arch of the diaphragm. It is covered by peritoneum. This surface is named by Cun- ningham the phrenic surface. It is separated by the peritoneum and diaphragm, and to some part of its extent by the pleura and lung from the eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. Viewed from the inside, the two other surfaces are seen to be divided by a distinct vertically directed ridge (fig. 590). The anterior of the two looks forwards, inwards, and a little downwards. It is concave from above down- wards, and from side to side. It is a good deal the larger of the two, and is semi- lunar in shape (fig. 589). It is in contact with the great cul-de-sac of the stomach, with the tip of the pancreas, and the extreme point of the splenic flexure of the colon (fig. 586). This surface is named by Cunningham the gastric surface. Near the posterior border of this surface and bounded by the ridge is seen the hilum of the spleen, a depression running vertically from above downwards. It is here that Fig. 588.—Outer Aspect of the Spleen. ANTERIOR BORDER- LOWER END