369 GASTROCNEMIUS From the inner extremity of this loop, two bands of fibres of varying distinctness proceed: one passes upwards and inwards to join the front border of the internal malleolus; the other, which is usually the weaker, more directly inwards over the scaphoid bone to join the inner border of the plantar fascia. Beneath this inner por- tion of the lower part of the anterior annular ligament the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and tibialis anticus are contained in separate synovial sheaths. The external annular ligament passes from the posterior border of the external malleolus to the outer border of the tuberosity of the calcaneum and to the posterior part of the junction of the lower and outer surfaces of the calcaneum. It is con- tinuous above with the deep fascia covering the calf muscles and the peronei; and also with the sheet of fascia which separates the two superficial from the two deeper layers of muscles at the back of the leg. Its deep surface is attached to the pero- neal tubercle on the outer side of the calcaneum. The internal annular ligament extends from the posterior border of the internal malleolus to the inner border of the tuberosity of the calcaneum. It is also continuous above with the deep fascia of the leg and with the sheet of fascia which intervenes between the soleus and the deeper layers of muscle at the back of the leg. MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE LEG The muscles in this region are arranged in two layers above, in four below. The first layer consists of the gastrocnemius and plantaris. First Layee 1. GASTROCNEMIUS The gastrocnemius—named from yaar-^p = the belly, and xvijfi^ = the calf, because it forms the enlargement of that part of the leg—is double-headed, each head consisting of a fusiform muscle, the lower part of which blends with its fellow so as to form a common tendon of insertion. These two heads constitute the femoral origin of the great triceps surse muscle. Origin.—Outer head : a well-marked impression upon the upper and posterior part of the outer surface of the external condyle and the adjacent part of the posterior surface of the femur just above the external condyle. Inner head: an oval impression placed transversely across the posterior surface of the femur above the internal condyle, and reaching inwards to the back of the adductor tubercle. Insertion.—By the tendo Achillis (so named from the legend that the heel, into which this tendon is inserted, was the only vulnerable part of the hero Achilles) into the lower part of the posterior surface of the calcaneum. Structure.—The two heads arise by short strong tendons; that of the inner is the stronger and thicker. These tendons converge downwards, and are suc- ceeded by large fleshy expansions which unite at the upper part of the middle third of the leg. Near this point the tendon of insertion begins as an intermus- cular septum between the two bellies of the muscle. This becomes thicker and stronger, and expands into a broad aponeurosis which covers the anterior surface of the united muscle. Just below the middle of the leg the fleshy fibres terminate upon the back of this aponeurosis in two curves the convexity of which is down- wards, that of the inner portion of the muscle descending about half an inch (1*2 cm.) lower than the outer. The strong aponeurosis becomes narrower and at the same time thicker, and after receiving the fibres of the soleus muscle is known by the name of the tendo Achillis. 24