690 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM From what has been said, it follows that the internal parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures form by their union a Y-shaped figure. The hinder part of the stem of the Y and the fore part of the calcarine fissure produce an elevation within the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle known as the hippocampus minor. It has been recently shown that in its development the stem of the Y may belong to the parieto-occipital fissure alone, or to the calcarine alone, or may be common to both. (Cunningham.) The callosal fissure is a deep furrow which follows the curve of the corpus cal- losum, being placed between that body and the gyrus fornicatus. It commences below the rostrum of the corpus callosum and terminates behind the splenium, where it becomes continuous with the dentate fissure. The dentate or hippocampal fissure extends from the splenium of the corpus callosum to the hooked extremity (uncus) of the uncinate gyrus.. It produces an elevation in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, which is termed the hippocampus major. The collateral fissure is common to the occipital and temporal lobes. It passes from a point on the under surface of the temporal lobe, near its apex to the occipital pole of the hemisphere. The reverse of this fissure appears as an elevation (the eminentia collateralis) in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The following convolutions appear on the mesial and tentorial surfaces:— The marginal convolution commences below the rostrum of the corpus callosum and occupies the area of the mesial surface between the calloso-marginal fissure and the margin of the hemisphere as far as the paracentral sulcus. The latter separates it from the paracentral lobule. It is continuous around the margin of the hemi- sphere with the gyrus rectus, the internal orbital, and the superior _ frontal con- volutions. It is marked by tertiary fissures along its whole course, in particular by a fissure which runs for some distance parallel to the calloso-marginal sulcus " The paracentral lobule is bounded in front by the paracentral sulcus; below and behind by the calloso-marginal fissure. It is continuous around the margin ot the hemisphere with the ascending frontal and ascending parietal convolutions; but as it is connected with the former by a much broader band than with the latter.