505 THE SUBCLAVIAN brain after ligature of both the carotids and the other vertebral artery. Further, the circle of "Willis is the only medium of communication between the ganglionic or central and the hemispheral or cortical branches of the cerebral arteries, and between the various ganglionic branches themselves. The ganglionic and the cor- tical branches form separate and distinct systems, and do not anastomose with each other; and the ganglionic, moreover, are so-called end-vessels, and do not anasto- mose with the neighbouring ganglionic branches. THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY The subclavian artery on the right side arises at the bifurcation of the innomi- nate behind the right sterno-clavicular articulation. On the left side it arises from the arch of the aorta, and as far as the inner border of the scalenus anticus is situ- ated deeply in the chest. The first portion of the left subclavian artery is described separately. Beyond the inner border of the scalenus anticus the artery has the same rela- tions on both sides. It courses from this point beneath the clavicle in a slight curve across the root of the neck to the outer border of the first rib, there to end in the axillary artery. Thus the course of the artery in the neck will be indicated by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular joint in a curve with its convexity upwards to the middle of the clavicle. The height the artery rises in the neck varies. It is perhaps most commonly about half an inch above the clavicle. If the curved line above mentioned is drawn to represent part of the circumference of a circle having its centre at a point on the lower margin of the clavicle an inch and a half from the sternal end of that bone, the line of the artery will be sufficiently well indicated for all practical purposes. In its course the artery arches over the dome of the pleura and gains the groove on the upper surface of the first rib by passing between the scalenus anticus and medius muscles. The artery is accompanied by the subclavian vein, the latter vessel lying in front of the scalenus anticus, anterior to the artery, and on a slightly lower plane. The subclavian artery is divided into three portions—as it lies internal to, behind, or external to, the scalenus anticus muscle.' THE FIRST OR THORACIC PORTION OF THE LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. The left subclavian artery (fig. 328) arises from the termination of the trans- verse portion of the arch of the aorta. The first part of the left subclavian is con- sequently longer than the first part of the right, which arises at the bifurcation of the innominate opposite the right sterno-clavicular joint. The artery at its origin is situated deeply in the thorax, and as it arises from the aorta is on a plane pos- terior to and a little to the left of the thoracic portion of the left common carotid. It first ascends almost vertically out of the chest, and at the root of the neck curves outwards over the apex of the left pleura and lung to the interval between the anterior and middle scalene muscles. Beyond the inner border of the scalenus anticus—that is, in the second and third portions of its course—its relations are similar to those of the right subclavian artery. Relations.—In front it is covered by the left pleura and lung, whilst more superficial are the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid muscles. It is crossed a little above its origin by the left innominate vein, and higher in the neck near the scalenus anticus by the internal jugular, vertebral, and subclavian veins. The phrenic nerve crosses the artery immediately internal to the scalenus anticus, and then descends parallel to it but on an anterior plane to cross the arch of the