THE ARTICULATIONS 276 the rounded eminence (anterior tubercle) at the anterior end of the under surface of the calcaneum, and to the bone in front of it, and then takes an oblique course forwards and inwards, and is attached to the whole of the depressed inferior surface of the cuboid behind the oblique ridge, except its outer angle. It is strongest near its outer edge, and is formed by dense strong fibres. The synovial membrane is distinct from that of any other tarsal joint. The arterial supply of the medio-tarsal joints is from the anterior tibial, from the tarsal and metatarsal branches of the dorsalis pedis, and from the plantar arteries. The nerve-supply of the medio-tarsal joints is from the external division of the anterior tibial, and occasionally from the musculo-cutaneous or external plantar. The movements which take place at the medio-tarsal joints are mainly flexion and extension, with superadded lateral and rotatory movements. Flexion at these joints is simultaneous with extension of the ankle, and vice versa. Flexion and extension do not take place upon a transverse, but round an oblique axis which passes from within outwards, and somewhat backwards and downwards through the astragalus and calcaneum. Combined with flexion and extension is also some rotatory motion round an antero-posterior axis which turns the inner or outer border of the foot upwards. There is also a fair amount of lateral motion whereby th« foot can be inclined inwards (i.e. adducted) or outwards (i.e. abducted). These movements of the medio-tarsal joint occur in conjunction with those of the ankle and calcaneo-astragaloid joints. Rotation at the calcaneo-astragaloid joint is, however, round a vertical axis in a horizontal plane, and so turns the toes inwards or outwards; whereas at the medio-tarsal union, the axis is antero- posterior and the inner or outer edge of the foot is turned upwards. Gliding at the calcaneo-astragaloid joint elevates or depresses the edge of the foot, while at the medio-tarsal it adducts or abducts the toes without altering the relative position of the calcaneum to the astragalus. Thus flexion at the medio-tarsal joint is associated with adduction and inward rotation of the foot, occurring simultaneously with extension of the ankle; and extension at the medio-tarsal joint is associated with abduction and outward rotation, occurring simultaneously with flexion of the ankle. Flexion and adduction are far more free than extension and abduction, which latter movements are arrested by the ligaments of the sole as soon as the foot is brought into the position in which it rests on the ground. Although the astragalo-scaphoid is a ball-and-socket joint, yet, owing to the union of the scaphoid with the cuboid, its movements are limited by the shape of the calcaneo-cuboid joint; this latter being concavo-convex from above downwards, prevents rotation round a vertical axis, and also any side-to-side motion except in a direction obliquely downwards and inwards, and upwards and outwards. This is also the direction of freest movement at the astragalo-scaphoid joint. Movement is also limited by the ligamentous union of the calcaneum with the scaphoid. The twisting movement of the foot, such as turning it upon its inner or outer edge, and the increase or diminution of the arch, take place at the tarsal joints, especially the medio-tarsal and calcaneo-astragaloid articulations. Here too those changes occur which, owing to paralysis of some muscles or contraction of others, result in talipes equino-varus, or valgus. 6. THE TARSOMETATARSAL ARTICULATIONS There may be said to be three articulations between the tarsus and metatarsus, viz:— (a) The Internal, between the inner cuneiform and first metatarsal bones. ( b) The Middle, between the three cuneiform and second and third metatarsal bones. (c) The Outer, or cubo-metatarsal, between the cuboid and fourth and fifth metatarsal bones.