384 THE MUSCLES Insertion.—The outer part of the under surface of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, the muscle converges in bipen- niform fashion upon a short tendon, which blends with that of the flexor brevis hallucis and the outer sesamoid bone internally, and the transversus pedis exter- nally. Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve by filaments which enter the upper surface of the muscle upon its outer border near its origin. Action.—(1) To adduct the first phalanx of the great toe towards the middle line of the foot; (2) to flex the first phalanx. Usually it will act during walking in combination with the flexor brevis hallucis and abductor hallucis, and the three muscles contracting together will produce direct flexion of the first phalanx, so that when the weight of the body rests upon the front part of the foot the second phalanx is pressed firmly against the ground by the action of the flexor longus hallucis, while the first phalanx is acted upon in the same manner by the combi- nation of these three short muscles. As Duchenne has pointed out, the abductor and adductor will have an important function in adjusting the pressure when the step has to be made upon uneven ground. Thus, in walking upon a slope the adductor hallucis of the one foot will direct the pressure downwards and slightly outwards, while the abductor of the other foot will direct the pressure downwards and slightly inwards. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor longus digitorum tendons and their lum- bricales; deeply, the interossei with the external plantar vessels and nerve; at the sides, the flexor brevis hallucis and transversus pedis. Variations.—The adductor hallucis sometimes sends a slip to the first phalanx of the second toe. 3. TRANSVEESUS PEDIS The transversus pedis—named from the direction of its fibres—is a small muscle consisting of three or four fusiform bundles lying side by side, and uniting in a single tendon. Origin.—(1) The plantar ligaments of the three outer metatarso-phalangeal joints; (2) the under surface of the adjacent deep transverse metatarsal ligaments. Insertion.—-The outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Structure.—The fleshy fibres form a series of small bundles which converge slightly as they pass inwards and somewhat forwards, and after uniting terminate in a short tendinous insertion which is closely blended with the outer surface of the tendon of the adductor hallucis. Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve by filaments which pass to the upper part of the posterior edge of the muscle. Action.—•( 1) To adduct the first phalanx of the great toe; (2) to draw together the heads of the metatarsal bones after they have been separated by the pressure of the weight of the body during the tread. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor longus digitorum tendons and lumbri- cales; deeply, the interossei. Variations.—Some or all of the bundles may be absent; most frequently the outermost one. Occasionally fibres join the muscle from the fascia covering the interossei below the lower border of the adductor hallucis, so that the two muscles are more or less blended. 4. FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI PEDIS The flexor brevis minimi digiti pedis—named from its action upon the little toe—is small, flattened, and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The under surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; (2) the adjacent part of the sheath of the peroneus longus tendon. Insertion.—(1) The outer part of the under surface of the base of the first