SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1178 wards, lies behind its companion at the apex of the triangle, and below lies some- what to its outer side. From the apex of Scarpa's triangle a depression runs down along the inner aspect of the thigh, corresponding to the groove already mentioned (page 1175) between the vastus interims and the adductors. Along this groove lies the sartorius, and beneath it Hunter's canal. The vein has here got somewhat to the outer side. The long saphenous nerve lies also in the canal, but not in the sheath. The above-mentioned space terminates at about the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh, in the opening in the adductor magnus by which the artery enters the upper and inner part of the popliteal space. The long saphenous, the largest branch of the anterior crural nerve, having crossed the femoral vessels from without inwards, accompanies them as far as the opening in the adductor Fig. 744—Section of Thigh through upper part of Hunter's Canal. (W. A.) GREA T SCI A TIC NER VE Vein magnus. Here it perforates the aponeurotic roof, and is prolonged under tbe sartorius, accompanied by the superficial part of the anastomotic artery, to per- forate the fascia lata between the sartorius and gracilis, and run with the long saphena vein at the upper and inner part of the leg. Pressure may be applied to the femoral artery—(1) Immediately below Poupart's ligament: it should here be directed backwards so as to compress the vessel against the brim of the pelvis and the capsule of the hip-joint; (2) at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, the pressure here being directed outwards and a little backwards, so as to command the vessel against the bone; (3) in Hunter's canal the pressure should be directed outwards with the same object. Care must be taken, especially above, to avoid the vein, which lies very close to the artery, and also the anterior crural nerve, which enters the thigh about half an inch (12 mm.) outside the artery, and at once breaks up into its branches, superficial and deep.