893 THE NOSE The vessels.—The arteries of the nose which arise from the facial are the lateralis nasi and the artery to the septum derived from the coronary of the same trunk. This latter also supplies the ala. The nasal branch of the ophthalmic and infraorbital are distributed to the sides and dorsum. The veins terminate by joining the facial and ophthalmic. The nerves.—The nerves are supplied by the facial, which is motory, and by the infratrochlear and nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, which are sensory. The nasal fossae.—The nasal fossa? have been already described (page 79). The mucous membrane (pituitary or Schneiderian).—In the recent state the area of the fossae is much contracted by its mucous lining. This is loosely folded around the lower edges of the turbinal bones, and extends beyond them in front and behind. Especially is this marked where it envelops the inferior turbinal bone, and it is here very thick and spongy. It is, moreover, thick where it covers the septum, but thin at the bottom of the meatuses and within the sinuses. Fig. 516.—Muscles of the Nose. (After Bourgery.) Some of the openings into the nasal cavities which are apparent in the dried skull are quite hidden in the recent state; those, however, which lead into the air-spaces together with the lachrymal duct remain patent, though the bony orifices are much reduced in size. There is a small conical closed sac, close to the septum at its fore part, which indicates the position of the now obliterated canal of Stenson. The termination is marked in the mouth by the incisive papilla. The membrane is continuous in front through the anterior nares with the skin; behind, it ex- tends through the posterior nares to line the naso-pharynx and tympanum with the mastoid cells by way of the Eustachian orifice and tube. It is intimately adherent to the periosteum and perichondrium. The acinous glands which are imbedded in its structure secrete for the most part a thin watery fluid. They are especially large over the inferior turbinal bone, and very numerous at the middle and back of the fossa? near the orifices of the posterior nares. The vestibule is lined with a scaly epithelium ; more posteriorly the nasal cavity is divided into an upper olfactory and a lower or respiratory region. The