982 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION intervention of the round ligament, the two layers reflected on to this structure being known as the suspensory ligament. At the posterior border of the superior surface it leaves the liver and forms the upper layer of the coronary ligament. The 'posterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum passes backwards, covers a portion of the posterior surface of the liver, and leaves uncovered that part of the right lobe (except the extreme right) which takes part in this surface. It is finally reflected to form the inferior layer of the coronary ligament. The parts of the liver uncovered by peritoneum are: the transverse fissure, the fossa of the gall bladder, and that portion of the posterior surface made up by the right lobe, and to which allusion has already been made. Underneath the peritoneal investment of the liver is a thin fibro-elastic mem- brane which is intimately adherent to the peritoneum, and is continuous over the liver where the peritoneum is deficient. At the transverse fissure this fibrous layer invests the hepatic vessels, forming a special sheath which follows the vessels as they enter the liver: this structure receives the name of Glisson's capsule. Above. Diaphragm and anterior wall of abdomen. Behind. Tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebra;; crura of dia- phragm ; lower end of oesophagus ; right supra- renal capsule ; great ves- sels. Below Cardiac end of stomach ; hepatic flexure of colon ; right kidney ; first and second portions of duodenum. Ligaments of the liver.—With the exception of the round ligament, the liga- ments are formed by the peritoneum, and (with the same exception) are all attached to the diaphragm. The reflexion of the two layers of peritoneum from the posterior surface of the liver to the diaphragm, as just described, forms the coronary ligaments, the extremities, or lateral continuations, being called the right and left lateral ligaments. The left lateral ligament is the longer, and is attached to the diaphragm in front of the cosojmagus. The right is attached to the back part of the diaphragm. The broad ligament (falciform or suspensory ligament) is also continuous behind with the coronary ligament; it is formed by the adjacent surfaces of the two portions of peritoneum covering the superior surface; it extends from the umbilicus where is the apex of the falx. The upper rounded border is connected with the anterior abdominal wall and diaphragm. The free or anterior border contains the round ligament; the lower or attached border extends from before backwards on the upper surface of the liver. The round ligament is a fibrous cord (the remains of the umbilical vein), extending on the free border of the broad ligament from the longitudinal fissure to the umbilicus. Blood-vessels.—The liver receives its arterial supply of blood from the hepatic artery, a branch of the cceliac axis, which passes up between the two layers of the lesser omentum, and, dividing into two branches, one for each lobe, enters the liver at the transverse fissure. The right branch gives off a branch to the gall bladder. The liver receives a much larger supply of blood from the portal vein, which conveys to the liver blood from the stomach, intestines, pancreas, and spleen. It enters the transverse fissure, and there divides into two branches. Below this fissure the hepatic artery lies to the left, the bile duct to the right, and the portal vein behind and between the two (fig. 584). These three structures ascend to the liver between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum in front of the foramen of GENERAL RELATIONS OF THE LIVER