1053 THE OVARIES pelvic wall in a hollow between the internal iliac artery and vein, but there is every reason to believe that it is very variable in the adult. The laxity of its connections, the liability to changes of position during pregnancy, and the changing relations of the contiguous viscera make it difficult to accept any one of the many views as absolutely correct. The organ when enlarged may be felt through the vagina, and, better, through the rectum, and its position with regard to the surface is indicated by a point about two inches to the inner side of the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The surfaces and free border are of a dull white, and after puberty are scarred by breaches of surfaces due to the dehiscence of ripe ova; the attached bor- der is pierced by the ovarian vessels and nerves which lie between the layers of the broad ligament, and their point of entrance is termed the hilum. Structure.—The ovary consists of a parenchyma and a kind of capsule, or tunica albuginea. The latter, unlike the tunica albuginea of the testis, is a modification of the stroma of the gland, and does not exceed the two-hundred-and- fiftieth of an inch in thickness; it is crowned with an epithelium (columnar) differing in character from that of the serous membrane with which it is connected. The true gland-structure is a mass of connective tissue and unstriped muscle Avith vessels and nerves. It is very vascular in the neighbourhood of the hilum, where the veins are peculiarly large and closely set, and is condensed into a kind of cortex beneath the albuginea. The cortex is about half a line in thickness, and consists of interlacing bundles of white fibrous tissue, which pass insensibly into the faintly fibrillated tunica albuginea, and enclose multitudes of small vessels called ovisacs, or Graafian follicles, in which the ova are developed. The majority of the ovisacs are microscopic, but as they ripen and approach the surface they increase in dimensions, and may even attain the size of a large white currant. Their rupture leads to the scarring already mentioned, and the empty capsule slowly disappears when impregnation has not occurred; but under the influence of the vascularisation of the organs during pregnancy, it may undergo a remarkable development and form a yellow plicated body known as the corpus luteum. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES The vessels are the uterine, ovarian, and funicular, all,of which are paired. The uterine artery (rig. 643), a branch of the internal iliac, runs from its origin in a downward direction along the pelvic wall as far as the base of the broad liga- ment; then, crossing horizontally towards the cervix uteri in front of the ureter, it gives off some small vaginal and vesical branches, and runs upwards in a serpentine course close to the side of the body of the uterus, supplying transverse branches to the anterior and posterior Avails of the organ. These anastomose Avith their fellows across the middle line, one larger branch opposite the junction of the body and cervix, forming with the corresponding vessel of the other side, the ' arterial circle of Huguier.' Finally they communicate at the upper angle with the terminal twigs of the ovarian and funicular arteries. The uterine veins are of very large size, and on leaving the uterus form a plexus in the muscular tissue of the broad ligaments, at length joining a trunk which runs side by side Avith the artery to end in the internal iliac vein. The ovarian artery, arising from the aorta (like the spermatic in the male), crosses the common iliac artery, and is conducted into the broad ligament by the ligamentum infundibulo-pelvicum (page 1048), which extends to the outer end of the oviduct. It breaks up into tAvo divisions: (1) The tubal, which runs along the loAver border of the oviduct, Avhere the peritoneal layers of the tube separate, and sends numerous branches to it; and (2) the ovarian proper, a large serpentine vessel Avhich gives off many large branches into the hilum of the gland, and then passes to the angle of the uterus, Avhere it ends by anastomosing Avith the uterine and funicular arteries. The ovarian veins, very largely developed about the hilum of the ovary, appear as a plexus in the broad ligament, and, reaching the margin of the plexus,