AXILLARY 525 The dorsal scapular, arising from the subscapular, usually at the above- mentioned spot, passes backwards through the triangular space bounded by the sub- scapularis above, the teres major below, and the long head of the triceps externally, and then between the teres minor and the axillary border of the scapula, which it commonly grooves. It thus reaches the infraspinous fossa, where, under cover of the infraspinatus, it anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries (fig. 347). As it passes through the triangular space, it gives off a ventral branch, sometimes called the infrascapular, which ramifies between the subscapu- laris and the bone, supplying branches to the subscapularis, to the scapula, and to the shoulder-joint. A second branch is often given off near the triangular space and passes downwards between the teres major and teres minor, supplying both muscles (fig. 348). The chief variations in the subscapular artery are:—(a) It may come off with the posterior circumflex; (b) it may arise from a trunk common to several other of the branches of the third Fig. 349.—The Anastomoses about the Scapula. Subscapular branch of suprascapular artery Supraspinous branch of suprascapular artery Posterior scapular artery Su/iraspinous branch of posterior scapular artery Su b scap it far branch of posterior scapular artery Branch of intercostal artery Branch of intercostal artery Continuation of posterior scapular artery Suprascapular artery Acromial branch of acroin io- thoracic Acromial rete Subscapular branch of suprascapular artery Infraspinous branch of suprascapular artery Subscapular branch of axillary artery Bursal scapular branch of subscapular artery Infrascapular branch of dorsal scapular artery Continuation of sub- scapular artery part of the axillary artery and upper part of the brachial artery ; and (c) its dorsal scapular branch may arise from the axillary direct. 2. The anterior circumflex, usually quite a small vessel, comes off from the outer side of the axillary artery, generally opposite the posterior circumflex. It passes beneath the coraco-brachialis and short and long heads of the biceps, wind- ing transversely round the front of the surgical neck of the humerus, across the bicipital groove, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex and acromial thoracic arteries. It gives off the following small branches: (a) the bicipital or ascending, which runs up the bicipital groove to supply the long tendon of the biceps and the shoulder-joint; and (b) a pectoral or descending branch, which runs downwards along the insertion of the pectoralis major, and supplies the tendon of that muscle. The anterior circumflex artery, in consequence of its being close