C86 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM is limited below by the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure in the horizontal part of its course, and behind this its lower limits are artificially mapped out by producing the horizontal part of the Sylvian fissure backwards to meet the posterior boundary. The parietal lobe contains one fissure of importance—the intraparietal. The intraparietal fissure is a system of three fissures, viz. a superior and an inferior vertical, placed parallel to the fissure of Rolando; and a horizontal placed at right angles to the other two. These parts may in rare cases remain separate, but most commonly are united with one another, forming a T-shaped figure. Moreover, the horizontal part may unite with a fourth part, the ramus occipitalis, which extends into the occipital lobe. The intraparietal fissure has been hitherto regarded as consisting of an ascending and a hori- zontal part; the upper vertical limb (postcentral sulcus) being detached. This is a common variety of the fissure, but it has recently been shown that the T-shaped form is the commonest or normal arrangement. (Cunningham.) The convolutions of the parietal lobe are: an ascending parietal, bounding the fissure of Rolando posteriorly and placed between that fissure and the intraparietal sulcus; and two parietal lobules, a superior and an inferior, placed above and below the horizontal limb of that fissure. The inferior parietal lobule is further sub- divided into an anterior part called the supramarginal convolution, a middle, termed the angular gyrus, and a posterior part, the post-parietal convolution. The ascending parietal convolution extends from the posterior limb of the Sylvian to the great longitudinal fissure, and is bounded in front by the fissure of Rolando, and behind by the intraparietal sulcus. It is continuous with the supra- marginal convolution below the intraparietal fissure, and at its upper end is con- tinued into the paracentral lobule on the inner surface of the hemisphere. The superior parietal lobule is a squarish mass indented on the surface by tertiary fissures. It is limited internally by the margin of the great longitudinal fissure where it becomes continuous with the prsecuneus. The anterior end of the ramus occipitalis of the intraparietal fissure terminates in this lobule when it is not continuous with the remainder of the intraparietal fissure, and, in such cases, the superior and inferior parietal lobules are continuous posteriorly. The superior parietal lobule is joined in front, bjr a convolution of variable breadth, with the ascending parietal, and is connected behind to the superior occipital convolution by the first annectant gyrus. The supramarginal convolution is the anterior part of the inferior parietal lobule. It arches around the upturned extremity of the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius. It is continuous in front with the ascending parietal convolu- tion, behind with the superior temporal gyrus and also with the angular gyrus. It is often very obscurely marked off from the latter. The angular gyrus is placed behind the preceding and embraces the extremity of the parallel fissure. It is continuous behind with the middle temporal convolu- tion. It is also usually connected to the middle occipital convolution by the third annectant gyrus. The post-parietal convolution forms the posterior part of the inferior parietal lobule. It curves round the second temporal sulcus and joins the third temporal convolution. The OCCIPITAL LOBE occupies, approximately, the portion of the cranial cavity which is interposed between the superior fossae of the occipital bone and the tent- orium cerebelli. It presents three very distinct surfaces: a convex supero-external, a mesial or internal, and a tentorial. The latter looks downwards and slightly inwards. These three surfaces meet at the occipital pole. It is sharply marked off on the mesial surface by the internal parieto-occipital fissure. On the convex surface the line of demarcation (as already described in treating of the parietal lobe) is made by drawing a line from the extremity of the external parieto-occipital fissure to the preoccipital notch (fig. 410). This line separates the occipital from the parietal and temporal lobes. The praeoccipital notch (fig. 410) is produced by the impression of the veins which enter the lateral sinus. Another impression (fig. 410,ri), which is produced