BRANCHES OF BRACHIAL PLEXUSES 791 this situation by the deep head of the muscle. It continues vertically downwards in the middle line of the forearm between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum; in this part of its course it is accompanied by a companion artery, the comes nervi mediani. At the upper border of the annular ligament it is placed between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis externally and the palmaris longus and flexor sublimis digitorum muscle internally. It passes under cover of the anterior annular ligament, on the superficial surface of the flexor tendons, and, at the lower border of the ligament, it enlarges, and bifurcates into two terminal divi- sions, an inner larger, and an outer smaller. Branches.—The median nerve does not supply any part of the upper arm. In front of the elbow-joint it furnishes one or two filaments to the articulation. In Fig. 457.—A Dissection showing the Arrangement of the Nerves in front of the Elbow. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) POSTERIOR BRANCH OF INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE ANTERIOR BRANCH OF INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE Brachial artery BRANCH TO PRONATOR TERES Bicipital fascia, cut short Pronator radii teres muscle MEDIAN NERVE Ulnar artery Biceps muscle BRANCH OF MUSCULO- SPIRAL NERVE TO SUPINATOR LONGUS RADIAL NER VE Radial recurrent artery and POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NER VE Tendon of biceps 3IUSCUL0-CUTANE0 US NERVE Supinator longus muscle Radial artery the forearm it supplies all the superficial anterior muscles (with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris) directly from its trunk, and supplies the deep muscles (with the exception of the inner half of the flexor profundus) by its anterior inter- osseous branch. In the hand it supplies the group of short muscles of the thumb (with the exception of those which are placed on the ulnar side of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis), the two outer lumbricales, the integument covering the central part of the palm and inner part of the thenar eminence, and the palmar aspect of the thumb, index, middle, and radial half of the ring fingers. It also sends twigs to the dorsal aspect of these digits. (a) The nerve to the pronator radii teres arises a little above the bend of the elbow, and pierces the outer border of that muscle.