THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 728 surfaces of the orbital plate of the frontal bone and the small wing of the sphenoid; it is therefore in close relation with the upper wall of the orbital cavity. The pos- terior part, behind the Sylvian fissure, is formed by the anterior portion of the temporal lobe, including its apex. The apex itself projects against the orbital plate of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and it is in relationship with the posterior part of the outer wall of the orbit. The lower surface of the hemisphere, behind the apex of the temporal lobe, is in contact with the upper surfaces of the great wing of the sphenoid and the petrous part of the temporal bone. The external surfaces of the cerebral hemispheres have the most extensive rela- tionships with the cranial wall, and it is more especially to these surfaces that the practical surgeon turns his attention. The general area in which the outer surface of each cerebral hemisphere is in relation with the skull bones is readily indicated by a series of lines which correspond with the positions of its supraciliary, the infero-lateral, and the supero-mesial borders. The line marking the supraciliary margin of the hemisphere commences at the nasion (the mid-point of the fronto-nasal suture); it passes outwards above the supraciliary ridge, crosses the temporal ridge, then, turning backwards in the temporal fossa, it reaches the parieto-sphenoidal suture, along which it continues backwards to its posterior extremity. The line marking out the infero-lateral border commences at the posterior end of the parieto-sphenoidal suture, whence it passes downwards, in front of the spheno-squamous suture, to the pterygoid ridge (infra-temporal crest); there it turns backwards; running parallel with and internal to the zygomatic arch, it crosses the root of the zygoma, and ascending slightly it passes above the external auditory meatus; continuing backwards with an inclination upwards it reaches a point immediately above the asterion; thence it descends, and, crossing the lower part of the lambdoid suture and the superior curved line, it passes inwards to the lower part of the external occipital protuberance. The supero-mesial border is defined by a line which runs from the nasion to the inion; this line should be drawn about 5 mm. to the outer side of the sagittal suture, because the mesial area is occupied by the superior longitudinal sinus, and it should be further away from the middle line on the right than on the left side because the sinus tends to lie more to the right side. The area of the skull wall enclosed by the three lines which mark the positions of the supraciliary, infero-lateral, and the supero-mesial borders of the cerebral hemisphere is formed by the vertical plate of the frontal bone, the parietal bone, the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous part of the temporal, and the upper section of the supra-occipital segment of the occipital bone; it covers the outer sur- faces of the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes and the fissures and sulci which bound and mark them. The frontal bone covers the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions, except their posterior extremities, which are beneath the parietal bone (fig. 433). ยง The ascending limb of the fissure of Sylvius, which cuts into the posterior part of the inferior frontal convolution, runs parallel with and under cover of the lower part of the coronal suture or immediately in front of it, and the anterior horizontal limb is parallel with and beneath the upper margin of the great wing of the sphenoid. The parietal bone is in relation with the outer surfaces of four lobes of the brain. Speaking very generally, it may be said that the anterior third covers the posterior part of the frontal lobe, including the ascending frontal convolution and the pos- terior ends of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions and the upper and lower precentral sulci, whilst the posterior two-thirds are superficial to the parietal lobe, the posterior part of the temporal lobe, the anterior part of the occi- pital lobe, the posterior part of the horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure, the upper and lower post-central sulci, the intraparietal sulcus, the posterior sections of the first and second temporal sulci, and the external parieto-occipital fissure. The fissure of Rolando is beneath the parietal bone at the junction of its middle and anterior thirds (fig. 433). The upper end of the fissure of Rolando lies 55 per cent, of the whole length of the naso-inionic line behind the nasion; it is 55 mm. from the coronal suture in dolichocephalic, and 54-4 mm. in brachycephalic heads. The lower end of the