THE PALMAR FASCIA 333 THE PALMAR FASCIA The palmar fascia takes the place of the deep fascia in the palm of the hand, and is for the most part formed by the expansion of the tendon of the palmaris longus. It is also continuous with the lower margin of the anterior annular liga- ment. It may be divided into a central and two lateral portions. The central division, which is by far the strongest, is of a triangular shape, the apex being con- tinuous with the tendon of the palmaris longus, and also attached to the lower border of the anterior annular ligament; the base corresponding to the heads of the four inner metacarpal bones. It consists in front of longitudinally arranged bundles of fibrous tissue derived from the palmaris longus tendon, and behind of transverse fibres which continue those of the annular ligament. Below, the fascia divides into four processes which join the ligamenta vaginalia of the finger tendons. Each of these four processes forms a bridge across the tendons, and is inserted, at the sides of the metacarpophalangeal joint, into the lateral and the deep transverse liga- ments. This strong central portion of the palmar fascia is closely connected upon its anterior surface with the skin by fibrous septa, which form small compartments in which are lodged pellets of the subcutaneous fat. Upon its posterior surface it is smooth and in contact with the synovial membrane of the great palmar bursa above, and of the thecse below. Between its four processes there are three spaces left through which the digital nerves and arteries emerge. These are bridged over by transverse fibres which connect the processes, and which form the superficial transverse ligaments lying in the webs between the fingers. The outer division, or thenar fascia, is that portion of the palmar fascia which covers the ball of the thumb. It is connected above with the anterior annular ligament, the tendon of the palmaris longus, and an aponeurosis from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. After covering the short muscles of the thumb, it is continuous below with the ligamentum vaginale of the flexor longus pollicis tendon. The inner division, or hypothenar fascia, is of a triangular shape, the base being above and the apex below. Arising from the anterior annular ligament and the deep fascia of the forearm at the inner side of the wrist, it invests the short palmar muscles peculiar to the little finger, and terminates upon the ulnar border of the hand close to the fifth metacarpo-phalangeal joint. It is covered above by the palmaris brevis. A deep layer of fascia covers the front of the interossei muscles, and is attached by thin longitudinal septa to the posterior surface of the central part of the palmar fascia. The ligamenta vaginalia are strong bands of transverse fibres which are attached to the borders of the first and second phalanges, and serve to bind in their places the long flexor tendons. Opposite the joints the ligaments are thin, and composed chiefly of obliquely decussating fibres. The sheaths of the flexor tendons, or thecae as they are called, are blind tubes of synovial membrane which invest the back of the ligamenta vaginalia and the front of the three phalanges and the interphalangeal joints. They extend from the metacarpo-phalangeal joint to the middle of the last phalanx; and at the extremities of the tube, the synovial membrane is reflected upon the surface of the flexor tendons. Small folds and cords containing connective tissue and blood-vessels, and invested by the synovial membrane, stretch across the intervening space. These are called vincula accessoria (fig. 279). One set of these, the ligamenta brevia, are of triangular shape, and pass directly forwards from the front of the lower part of the first and second phalanges to the back of the overlying tendons; while the other set—which are called the ligamenta longa—are small cords run- ning downwards and somewhat forwards from the phalanges to the tendons, at a higher level than the ligamenta brevia. The compartment of the palmar bursa belonging to the flexor longus pollicis tendon is continuous with the theca of the thumb. The theca also of the little finger is close to, and frequently in communication with, the lower part of the great palmar bursa upon its ulnar side (fig. 274).