THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 790 vessel from the ulnar nerve. It passes downwards with a slight inclination hack- wards under cover of the deep fascia on the inner side of the arm. At the middle of the arm it pierces the fascia, and near the bend of the elbow it turns somewhat sharply backwards to supply the integument which covers the olecranon process. As it traverses the axilla the nerve of Wrisberg communicates with the intercosto- humeral nerve forming one or sometimes two loops. In its course down the arm it gives a few fine twigs to the integument. (3) The internal cutaneous is a branch of the inner cord, its fibres being ulti- mately derived from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. At its origin it lies on the inner side of the axillary artery, but it soon passes forwards and lies in the groove between the artery and the vein anteriorly. In the upper two-thirds of the arm it lies in front and to the inner side of the brachial artery. It then pierces the deep fascia in company with the basilic vein, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. Previous to its division it gives off a twig which pierces the deep fascia, and supplies the integument of the upper and inner part of the arm. (a) The anterior branch is larger than the posterior, and divides at acute angles into several twigs, some of which pass in front of and some behind the median basilic vein, and then run down the forearm to supply the integuments covering its anterior and internal aspect as far as the wrist, anasto- mosing with the branches of the ulnar nerve. (6) The posterior branch passes downwards and backwards in front of the internal condyle of the humerus, and divides into branches which supply the skin on the postero-internal aspect of the forearm. It anastomoses with the inferior external cutaneous branch of the mus- culo-spiral nerve and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. (4) The musculo-cutaneous nerve is a branch of the outer cord of the brachial plexus. It is composed of fibres which are derived from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. It is placed at first close to the outer side of the brachial artery, but soon leaves that vessel and pierces the coraco-brachialis muscle in a direction obliquely downwards and outwards. Continuing this oblique direc- tion, it passes between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles, and becomes super- ficial at the outer border of the former muscle, a little above the bend of the elbow. It then passes on the deep surface of the median cephalic vein, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. Previous to its division, the musculo-cutaneous nerve supplies three muscles, viz. the coraco-brachialis, the biceps, and the brachialis anticus. It also supplies twigs to the humerus, the nutrient artery, and the elbow- joint. The nerve to the coraco-brachialis consists of two or three twigs which are given off from the nerve close to its origin, and before it has traversed the muscle. In the child this branch rises separately from the seventh cervical nerve. The nerves to the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles arise from the musculo-cutaneous nerve as it is passing between these muscles. There is a sep- arate branch for each head of the biceps. The posterior terminal branch is small, and is directed downwards and backwards in front of the external condyle of the humerus to be distributed to the skin on the outer and posterior aspect of the forearm as low as the wrist. It anastomoses with the radial nerve and with the inferior external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The anterior branch runs downwards on the outer and anterior part of the forearm, supplying the integument of that region, and having communicated near the wrist with the radial nerve, it sends a branch through the deep fascia which accompanies the radial artery to the back of the wrist; it terminates in the skin covering the middle part of the thenar eminence. (5) The median nerve is formed by fibres derived from the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. It arises by two heads, one from the outer, and one from the inner cord. The inner head crosses obliquely in front of the third stage of the axillary artery, and joins the outer head on the external side of that vessel. The median nerve runs almost vertically down the arm under cover of the skin and fascia, and is partially overlapped by the biceps. In the upper part of the arm it is placed on the outer side of the brachial artery. About the middle of the arm it crosses in front of that vessel, and then runs down on the inner side of the artery to the bend of the elbow. It then passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres, and is separated from the ulnar artery in