THE SALIVARY GLANDS 947 Its superficial surface is limited above by the root of the zygoma; behind, by the external auditory meatus, the mastoid process, and the sterno-mastoid muscle with the posterior belly of the digastric; anteriorly, it extends for a varying dis- tance over the masseter muscle; and below, it is bounded by a line passing from the angle of the jaw backwards. It is enclosed in an aponeurotic capsule. The capsule is continuous with the deep cervical fascia and it is strengthened at the lower part of the gland, where it extends from the styloid process to the angle of the jaw as the stylo-maxillary ligament which intervenes between the parotid and submaxillary glands. Above the capsule is attached to the lower margin of the tympanic plate of the temporal bone and to the posterior border of the G-lasserian fissure. The gland is somewhat prismatic in form, possessing three borders and surfaces and two extremities. The outer surface is covered by fascia and skin and in the lower part of its extent by platysma. Embedded in it are several superficial lym- phatic glands which receive afferent vessels from the temple, cheek, eyebrows, eye- Fig. 559.—The Salivary Glands. DEEP PORTION OF SUBMAXILLARY GLAND lids, and from the outer aspect of the pinna. The posterior surface is in relation with the posterior belly of the digastric, the styloid process, the styloid group of muscles, the mastoid process, and the posterior auricular artery. A backward process of this surface which embraces the styloid process and insinuates itself be- tween the carotid arteries is known as the carotid lobe. The anterior surface is in contact with the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw by which it is grooved and with the internal pterygoid muscle. It sends forwards an irregular process, the pterygoid lobe, between the pterygoid muscles. The anterior border is irregu- lar and thin; it extends forwards for a variable distance over the masseter muscle, the duct and several branches of the facial nerve emerge from it, and in front of it, above the duct, there is a small separate lobe, the socia parotidis. The posterior border is in relation below with the sterno-mastoid, and above with the mastoid process. The internal border is separated from the wall of the pharynx by the carotid vessels, the internal jugular vein, and the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. The upper extremity lies in the posterior part of the glenoid fossa of the