1137 FEMORAL HERNIA layers below; (c) persistence of the original process of peritoneum; (<£) a long mesentery or suspensory ligament of the intestines. Mr. Lockwood has shown that the mesentery is relatively larger in infancy, and that there is a rapid decrease after the second year. In adults its length is about eight inches, and any lengthening of the mesentery beyond this point is likely to be combined with a protuberant belly. He shows further, with regard to the range of descent or the excursus of the intestines, that it is extremely rare to find a mesentery so short, or attached so high, as to prevent the intestines escaping or being drawn from the abdomen. The long mesentery of infancy and childhood is usually associated with consid- erable downward descent of the intestine; and in the adult it is quite common to find that the small intestines will pass an inch and a half beyond the right crural arch, one inch beyond the pubes, and up to the left crural arch. (3) Stretching of the abdominal walls by pregnancies, etc. (4) Increase of the volume and weight of the parts within: e.g. omentum by deposit of fat in it. (5) Sex. Thus, men have larger inguinal rings. Women have a larger femoral arch, and one less well filled in by muscles, and with less strong fascise meeting, e.g. iliac and transversalis. (6) Cough, asthma, bronchitis, habitual fretfulness or crying. (7) Straining to expel urine, as with phimosis, stricture, stone in bladder, etc. (8) Straining in defecation. (9) Lifting heavy weights. (10) Results of wounds or abscesses which have weakened the abdominal wall. (11) Whatever diminishes the abdominal cavity, e.g. tight lacing. FEMORAL HERNIA As many of the parts concerned here are also met with in inguinal hernia, one description, given now, will suffice. With regard to descriptions of the inguinal and femoral regions, it is always well to bear in mind the following:—(1) That the so-called rings and canals are merely weak spots in the inguinal and femoral regions, and that they do not exist distinctly, and do not get beyond the potential stage, unless made by a scalpel or a hernia; (2) that at the fold of the groin most of the layers blend together, and that descriptions of them as separate layers, for convenience sake in learning them, are more or less artificial; (3) that the description of these layers has been most needlessly complicated by the number of terms used, many of which are simply substitutes for others; (4) many of these terms are not only useless but incorrect, e.g. saphenous, crural, etc. Parts concerned in femoral hernia. (1) Skin and superficial fascia of groin.—The latter consists of two layers: («) Superficial layer of superficial fascia.—Fatty, met with over the whole groin, and continuous with the superficial fascia of the rest of the body. (6) Deep layer of superficial fascia.—Thin and membranous, only met with over the lower third of the abdominal wall and to the inner side of the groin. It is continuous through the scrotum with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perinseum. Just below Poupart's ligament it is joined to the fascia lata. From these two facts it results that in rupture or giving way of the urethra the extravasated urine may come forwards by way of the genitals (page 1124) and from the continuity of the fascia make its way on to the abdomen, but not down on to the thigh. Between the two layers of superficial fascia lie the superficial glands of the groin, the superficial branches of the common femoral artery, one or two cutaneous nerves, and some veins descending to the saphenous opening to join the long saphena vein. (2) Poupart's ligament.—This is also known as the crural arch, a misnomer, as ' crus' means leg. A description of its shape and attachments is given on page 1114. Owing to the connection of the fascia lata to its lower border, the ' saphenous opening,' which is situated in the fascia lata, and has its upper cornu 72