300 THE MUSCLES the deltoid to elevate the arm are unsuccessful, and only cause the lower angle of the scapula to project from the back of the thorax. When the arm has been ele- vated to its full extent by the deltoid, that is, through about a right angle, the rotation of the scapula due to the serratus magnus and trapezius will produce a further elevation through another right angle, and so place the arm in a vertical position. One of the results of the action of this muscle is to keep the lower angle of the scapula in close contact with the wall of the thorax. When the muscle is paralysed, the posterior borders and the inferior angles of the scapula? project back- wards from the thorax like small wings {scapulae alatse). Acting from its scapular insertion, the muscle tends to draw the front of the chest towards the scapula, e.g. when it supports the thorax in crawling on the hands and knees. Judging from the direction in which its fibres are inserted into the ribs, most of them can have little if any action in elevating the ribs, as in forced inspiration. Relations.—Superficially, the pectoralis major and minor, the subscapularis and latissimus dorsi, the subclavian and axillary vessels and the brachial plexus; deeply, the external intercostal muscles, and serratus posticus superior. Variations.-—It may arise as low as the tenth rib; and above, it may receive slips from the cervical transverse processes, or the levator anguli scapula?. Part or the whole of the muscle may be deficient. The Second Group comprises the muscles which pass from the scapula to the upper limb, and move the upper arm. Some of the most important adductors, flexors, and extensors belong to the first group; but abduction and rotation in both directions are provided for by the second group. MUSCLES WHICH PASS FROM THE SCAPULA TO THE UPPER LIMB These are nine in number, viz. the deltoid, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, subscapularis, teres major, coraco-brachialis, biceps, and triceps. The two last, however, as they act chiefly upon the forearm, will not be described in this group. The superficial fascia covering the muscles contains but little fat. The deep fascia is thin where it covers the front of the deltoid, and is continuous with that which invests the pectoralis major and the axillary fascia. Behind, it is thicker, especially where it covers in the lower part of the infra-spinatus. Below, it blends with the deep fascia of the upper arm. Above, it is connected with the clavicle and scapula above the upper attachment of the deltoid. It is also connected, either directly or by strong intermuscular septa, with the vertebral and axillary borders of the scapula. Processes from it cover the deeper surface of the deltoid, and form sheaths to all the muscles of this group. 1. DELTOID The deltoid muscle (figs. 262 and 264)—named from its resemblance to the Greek letter delta when inverted—is a very thick triangular sheet, with the apex directed downwards, and with its plane curved upon itself from before backwards, so as to wrap round the front, outer side, and back of the upper end of the humerus. Origin.—(1) The anterior border and adjacent part of the upper surface of the outer third of the clavicle; (2) the outer border and adjacent part of the upper surface of the acromion; (3) the lower border of the spine of the scapula and the fascia covering the infra-spinatus muscle, near the vertebral border of the scapula.