EPENCEPHA L ON 715 The inferior surface of the cerebellum shows a pronounced convexity corre- sponding to the inferior fossae of the occipital bone on which it rests. It is smoothly rounded off externally and behind, but changes its direction abruptly internally and in front, where it comes in contact with the medulla and pons. It is marked off into lobes, which are arranged in the following order from behind forwards: pos- terior inferior, slender, biventral, tonsillar, and flocculus. The posterior inferior is a narrow crescentic lobe, which bounds the great horizontal fissure inferiorly. The slender (lobulus gracilis) is similar in shape, but narrower, as its name implies. The biventral, shorter and thicker than the two last described, is divided by a well-marked fissure into an anterior and a posterior portion. The tonsillar lobe (amygdala) lies internal and slightly anterior to the biventral, and is partly hidden in the vallecula. The flocculus is a small lobe forming a marked projec- tion in front of the biventral lobe, which it separates from the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The inferior vermiform process is formed by the following parts, taken in order from behind forwards: tuber valvukc, pyramid, uvula, and nodule. The tuber valvulae is a transverse band, consisting of about seven or eight folia, which connects the posterior inferior and slender lobes with their fellows of the opposite Fig. 426.—Inferior Sdeface of the Cerebellum. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) VALVE OF VIEUSSENS LOBULUS CENTRALIS MIDDLE PEDUNCLE FLOCCULUS FOURTH VENTRICLE BIVENTRAL LOBE UVULA PYRAMID SLENDER LOBE POSTERIOR INFERIOR LOBE SUPERIOR PEDUNCLE POSTERIOR CRESCENTIC LOBULE SULCUS CEREBELLI SUPERIOR NOD ULE AMYGDALA TUBER VALVULJE INCISURA MARSUP1ALIS side. The pyramid is the most massive portion of the inferior vermiform process, and is connected to the biventral lobes on each side. It consists of from five to eight folia. The uvula is an elongated portion, compressed laterally, and connected to the amygdala on each side by the furrowed band. The nodule, or laminated tubercle, is the prominent anterior extremity of the inferior vermiform process which projects into the cavity of the fourth ventricle. It is connected to the floc- culus on each side by a thin white plate, the inferior medullary velum. The latter will be referred to in connection with the anatomy of the fourth ventricle. Dissection.—The student should now obtain a view of the principal systems of fibres in the cerebellum by the following dissection, which we shall speak of as Reil's method. The great horizontal fissure should be opened up and the portion of the cerebellum which lies superior to that fissure gently torn off the underlying portion. If this proceeding has been successfully accomplished, a large bundle of fibres will be seen passing through a gap between the superior and middle peduncles of the cerebellum, and passing towards the superior surface. This bundle is formed by the restiform body and by the lower fibres of the pons. The position of the corpus dentatum will also be noticeable near the middle line, as the white fibres which form the capsule of that body are disposed in ridges corresponding to the plications of grey matter of the nucleus. A more superficial dissection on the opposite side will show the fibres of the above- mentioned bundle passing inwards, forming at first curves convex backwards, and then sweeping upwards into the folia of the superior vermis. A horizontal section through the corpus dentatum