THE RADIAL NERVE 797 in the middle third of the forearm, crossing the pronator radii teres. It then parts company with the artery by bending backwards on the deep surface of the tendon of the supinator longus. It pierces the deep fascia in the lower third of the fore- arm and is directed towards the back of the wrist, where it divides into its terminal branches. One of these, the palmar cutaneous of the radial nerve, supplies the outer part of the thenar eminence; two others supply the dorsum of the thumb, a fourth branch runs along the radial side of the index finger, a fifth divides to supply the adjacent side of the index and middle fingers, and a sixth branch com- municates with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve to supply the adjacent side of the middle and ring fingers. Nerve-supply of the dorsal integument to the hand.-—It will be seen, by the foregoing description of the radial and ulnar nerves, that the thumb, index, and half the middle finger are supplied by the radial; the little and half the ring finger by the ulnar; and the adjacent sides of the ring and middle fingers by both radial and ulnar nerves. The distance to which these nerves extend on the digits is somewhat variable, but the following is the average condition:—The radial nerve extends to the base of the thumb nail, to the distal interphalangeal joint of the index, and not quite to the proximal interphalangeal joint of the middle finger, and sends a fine twig in some cases to the skin covering the metaphalangeal articulation of the ring fiuger. The ulnar nerve extends to the nail of the little finger, to the distal interphalangeal joint of the ring, and in some cases to the integument covering the proximal interphalangeal joint of the middle, and the metacarpophalangeal articulation of the index finger. The distal parts of the dorsum of the ' fingers are supplied by twigs from the palmar collateral branches of the median and ulnar nerves, j almost the whole of the middle finger being supplied in this way, and the other digits to a less degree. The matrix of the thumb nail is supplied by twigs from the palmar branches of the median. A considerable part of the dorsum of the hand is usually supplied by twigs from both the radial and the ulnar nerves, as these nerves overlap one another in their distribution (fig. 459). : Occasionally two other nerves, the muscitlo-cutaneous and the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, take part in the supply of the back of the hand. Table Showing Relation of Cervical and Dorsal Nerves to Branches of Brachial Plexus Neeve Roots. Nerves. 5 q f Nerve to rhomboids \ ,, subclavius Suprascapular Nerve to subclavius 5 and 6 C l Upper subscapular Lower ,, Circumflex r Posterior thoracic 5, 6, and 7 C i External anterior thoracic Musculocutaneous 5, 6, 7, and 8 C Musculo-spiral 6, 7, 8 C, and 1 D Median 7 and 8 C Middle subscapular r Internal anterior thoracic 8 C. and 1 D J Ulnar I Internal cutaneous ID . Lesser internal cutaneous