THE MUSCLES 294 1. The pectoral fascia, a thin membrane which forms the sheath of the pec- toralis major, and is attached to the clavicle above; while below it passes over the free edge of the great pectoral muscle, and there unites with the axillary fascia. 2. The clavi-pectoral fascia arises in two sheets from the anterior and pos- terior borders of the under surface of the clavicle. These sheets unite after enclos- ing the subclavius muscle, and form a single membrane (the costo-coracoid), which, after bridging the space between the subclavius and pectoralis minor, divides again to form the sheath of the pectoralis minor. At the lower border of this muscle, the clavi-pectoral joins the axillary fascia. The costo-coracoid membrane, which is the middle portion of the clavi-pectoral fascia, is of a quadrilateral shape, and is attached above and below to the sheaths of the subclavius and the pectoralis minor muscles; externally, where it blends with the sheath of the axillary vessels, it is very strong; internally, where it joins the fascia covering the front part of the first and second intercostal spaces, it is thin and weak. 3. The axillary fascia is a strong membrane which stretches across the triangu- lar floor of the axilla. In front, it joins the pectoral and clavi-pectoral fascia?; behind, it joins the sheath of the latissimus dorsi; above, it is continuous with the deep fascia of the upper arm, and below with that of the thorax. The concavity of its surface, which is directed downwards and outwards, is maintained to a great extent by the attachment of the clavi-pectoral fascia above mentioned. First Layer PECTORALIS MAJOR The pectoralis major—named from its being the larger of the two muscles which arise from the front of the chest (pectus — breast)—is a thick, triangular, fan- shaped sheet; or, more accurately, it may be likened to the segment of a circle on account of the curved origin, from which all the fibres converge to the upper part of the humerus as a centre. Origin.—(1) The anterior surface of the inner half of the clavicle and the adjacent part of the sterno-clavicular joint; (2) the side of the front of the sternum, from the sterno-clavicular joint to the lower extremity of the gladiolus; (3) the front of the cartilages of the second to the sixth ribs; (4) a small part of the outer surface of the sixth rib close to its anterior extremity; (5) the upper part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle which forms the front of the sheath of the rectus abdominis. Insertion.—(1) The external bicipital ridge of the humerus from the greater tuberosity down to the impression for the deltoid; (2) adjacent fibrous structures, especially the tendon of insertion of the deltoid muscle. Structure.—The clavicular portion is distinct from the rest, and might be described as a separate muscle. It forms a thick band of parallel fibres, which, arising tendinous from the clavicle, become almost immediately fleshy, and are inserted into the humerus by short tendinous fibres in front of the rest of the tendon of insertion. The rest of the muscle (the sterno-costal portion as it is usually named) con- sists of fleshy fibres which, arising directly from the four points of origin already enumerated, converge and cross one another to be inserted into the humerus behind the clavicular portion by means of a peculiar tendon. In a vertical section (fig. 271) near the humerus this tendon is seen to be folded upon itself into a compressed horseshoe-shape. The convexity of the folded tendon is directed downwards, and the anterior segment of the horseshoe is shorter than the posterior. The anterior segment receives the muscular fibres which proceed from that part of the origin of the sterno-costal portion which lies above the third costal cartilage, and with the front of this segment, the insertion of the clavicular portion is closely blended. The posterior segment receives the fibres from the lower part of the sterno-costal portion, the lowest fibres (viz. those from the external oblique aponeurosis) being inserted highest, and the highest (viz. those from the middle of