570 THE ARTERIES that vessel—is really a branch of the unobliterated portion of what, in the foetus, was the hypogastric artery. It ramifies over the upper fundus of the bladder, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side and with the middle and inferior vesical below. It gives off the following branches:—(a) The deferential, or artery of the vas deferens, arises from the superior vesical near the spot where the vas crosses the obliterated hypogastric artery, and, having reached the vas, divides into an ascending and a descending branch. The ascending branch follows the vas through the inguinal canal to the testicle, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. The descending branch passes downwards to the dilated portion of the vas and vesiculse seminales. (6) The uracheric branch passes upwards along the urachus. (c) The ureteric branches pass to the lower end of the ureter, which they supply, and anastomose with the other ureteric arteries. ((/) The middle vesical (sometimes). (2) The middle vesical is a branch either of the superior vesical, or of the unobliterated portion of the hypogastric artery. In the latter case it is given off before the superior vesical. It is distributed to the sides and base of the bladder, and anastomoses with the other vesical arteries. (3) The inferior vesical arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, frequently in common with the middle hemorrhoidal, and passes downwards and inwards to the base of the bladder, where it breaks up into branches which ramify over the lower part of the viscus. It gives off:—(o) Branches to the prostate, which supply that organ and anastomose with the arteries of the opposite side by means of descending arteries which pass through the prostatic plexus of veins, but outside the capsule of the prostate, and with the inferior hemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic. At times one of these prostatic branches is of large size, and supplies certain of the parts normally supplied by the internal pudic. It is then known as the accessory pudic, and then most commonly terminates as the dorsal artery of the penis. (6) Branches to the vesiculse seminales; and (c) branches (in the female) to the vagina. (See Vaginal Artery. ) The artery of the vas deferens sometimes arises from the inferior vesical, instead of from the superior vesical. 3. THE MIDDLE HEMORRHOIDAL ARTERY The middle haemorrhoidal or the middle rectal artery, variable in its origin, perhaps most commonly arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac along with the inferior vesical. It runs inwards to the sides of the middle portion of the rectum, dividing into branches which anastomose above with the superior haemor- rhoidal derived from the inferior mesenteric, and below with the inferior haemor- rhoidal derived from branches of the pudic. Its corresponding vein terminates in the inferior mesenteric vein. 4. THE UTERINE ARTERY The uterine artery arises from the anterior branch of the internal iliac close to or in conjunction with the middle hemorrhoidal or inferior vesical. It runs down- wards and inwards through the pelvic connective tissue in the so-called infundibulo- pelvic ligament, crossing the ureter about half an inch from the cervix uteri. It then turns upwards and ascends between the layers of the broad ligament on the side of the uterus in a coiled and tortuous manner, and, after giving off a number of tortuous branches which ramify in a horizontal manner over the front and back of the uterus, supplying its substance, anastomoses with the uterine branch of the ovarian artery. The distribution of the vessel in the uterus will be described with that organ. The branches of the uterine artery are:—(1) Cervical.—This branch comes off from the uterine as the latter artery crosses the ureter to turn up- wards on to the uterus. It runs directly inwards, and divides into three or four branches which pass on to the cervix at right angles to it; one branch anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side in front and behind the neck, forming the so-called coronary artery of the cervix. (2) Vaginal azygos.—A second branch descends