THE SKELETON 20 distinct nuclei. Sometimes the nucleus is double, and remains separate throughout life, the vertebra being divided by a vertical fissure (fig. 21). The bifid character of the nucleus of the vertebral body is further emphasised by the occasional occur- rence of half-vertebrae. The lateral centres are deposited near the bases of the superior articular processes, and give rise to the pedicles, laminae, articular pro- cesses, and a large part of the transverse and spinous processes. At birth a vertebra consists of three parts—a body and two lateral masses connected by hyaline cartilage. The line of union of the lateral masses with the bodies is known as the neuro-central suture (fig. 22), and this is not obliterated for several years after birth. An examination of a thoracic vertebra at the fifth year will show that a portion of the body of each vertebra is derived from the lateral Fig. 22.—A Vertebra at Birth. LATERAL MASS NEURO-CENTRAL SUTURE CENTRUM OR BODY masses, and that the demi-facets for the rib-heads are situated behind the neuro- central suture, and therefore belong to the pedicles. During the early years growth progresses rapidly, and at puberty the secondary centres make their appearance in the cartilaginous tips of the transverse and spinous processes. During the seventeenth year a meniscus of bone forms around the margins of the superior and inferior surfaces of the centra. These are the epiphysial discs; they are thickest at the periphery, and gradually become thin towards the central perforation. -By the twenty-fifth year the various secondary nuclei have coalesced with the main bone, and the vertebra is then complete. In several vertebrae the mode of ossification deviates from the account given above, and requires separate consideration. The atlas.—This bone has three primary centres—one for each lateral mass Fig. 23.—Lumbar Vertebra at the Eighteenth Year with Secondary Centres, epiphysial plate or disc mammillary tubercle TRANSVERSE PROCESS SPINOUS PROCESS (neural arch) appearing in the sixth week of embryonic life. The third appears a few months after birth for the anterior arch. The lateral portions coalesce posteriorly about the fourth year; the union with the anterior nucleus is delayed until the sixth year. An additional centre occasionally appears for the posterior segment. The axis.—This is the most exceptional of all the vertebra;. It has the usual three primary nuclei—one for the body, and one on each side for the neural arch. The centre for the body appears in the embryo about the fifth month, and a few- weeks later, two laterally disposed nuclei are seen for the base of the odontoid process; these fuse together in the middle line, and by the third year ankylose peripherally to the centrum of the axis. The line of union between the body of the axis and the odontoid process is indicated even in advanced life by a persistent