THE TIBIO-FIB ULAR UNION (c) The Inferior Tibio-fibular Articulation Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. This junction is formed by the lower ends of the tibia and fibula. The rough triangular surface on each of these bones formed by the bifurcation of their inter- osseous lines is closely and firmly united by the inferior interosseous ligament. The fibula is in actual contact with the tibia by an articular facet, which is small in size, crescentic in shape, and continuous with the articular facet of the malleolus. The ligaments which unite the bones are:— 1. Anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament. 2. Posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament. 3. Transverse ligament. 4. Inferior interosseous ligament. The antero-inferior tibio-fibular ligament (figs. 252 A and 255) is a strong triangular band about three-quarters of an inch (2 cm.) wide, and is attached to the lower extremity of the tibia at its anterior and external angle, close to the margin of the facet for the astragalus, and passes downwards and outwards to the anterior Fig. 2.52 A.—Lower Ends of Left Tibia and Fibula, showing the Ligaments. The synovial fold between these bones has been removed to show the transverse ligament forming part of the capsule of the joint, and the deeper fibres of the anterior inferior tibio-fibular liga- ment which come into contact with the astragalus. (From a dissection by Mr. W. Pearson, of the Eoyal College of Surgeons' Museum.) Internal lateral ligament border and contiguous surface of the lower end of the fibula, some fibres passing along the edge nearly as far as the origin of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. The fibres increase in length from above downwards. In front it is in relation with the peroneus tertius and deep fascia of the leg, and gives origin to fibres of the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint. Behind, it lies in contact with the interosseous ligament, and comes into contact with the articular surface of the astragalus (see figs. 252 A and 252 B). The postero-inferior tibio-fibular ligament (figs. 254 and 255) is very similar to the anterior, extending from the posterior and external angle of the lower end of the tibia downwards and outwards to the lowest half-inch (1"5 cm.) of the border separating the internal from the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula, and to the upper part of the posterior border of the external malleolus. It is in relation in front with the interosseous ligament; below, it touches the transverse ligament. The inferior interosseous ligament is a dense mass of short felt-like fibres, passing transversely between and firmly uniting the opposed rough triangular surfaces at the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, except for three-eighths of an inch (1 cm.) at the extremity, where there is a synovial cavity. It extends from the anterior to the posterior tibio-fibular ligaments, reaching upwards an inch and a half in front (4 cm.), but only half this height behind. The transverse ligament (fig. 254) is a strong rounded band, attached to nearly the whole length of the inferior border of the posterior surface of the tibia, just above