Fig. 243.—Ligamentum Teees, veey lax in complete Extension. THE ARTICULATIONS 252 from it. First, the bearing surfaces of the femur and acetabulum preserve their apposition to each other, so that the amount of articular surface of the head in the acetabulum does not sensibly diminish pari passu with the transit of the joint from the extended to the flexed position, as would necessarily be the case if the movement of the femoral head, like that of the thigh itself, was simply angular, instead of rotatory and angular. Secondly, as rotation of the head can continue until the ligaments are tight without being checked by contact of the neck of the thigh bone with the rim of the acetabulum, flexion of the thigh so far as the joint is concerned is practically unlimited. Flexion is the most important, most fre- quent, and most extensive movement, and in the dissected limb, before the liga- ments are disturbed, can be carried to 160°, and is then checked by the lower fibres of the ischio-femoral ligament. In the living subject simple flexion can continue until checked by the contact of the soft parts at the groin, if the knee be bent; if the knee be straight, flexion of the hip is checked in most persons by the hamstring muscles at nearly a right angle. This is very evident on trying to touch the ground with the fingers without bending the knees, the chief strain being felt at the pop- liteal space. This is due to the shortness of the hamstrings. Extension is limited by the ilio-femoral ligament. Abduction and outward rotation can be performed freely in every position of flexion and extension—abduction being limited by the peetineo-femoral ligament; outward rotation by the ilio-femoral ligament, especially its inner portion, during extension; but by the outer portion, as well as by the ligamentum teres, during flexion. Adduction is very limited in the extended thigh on account of the contact with the opposite limb. In the slightly flexed position adduction is more free than in extension, and is then limited by the outer fibres of the ilio-femoral band and the superior portion of the capsule. In flexion the range is still greater, and limited by the ischio-femoral ligament, the ligamentum teres being also rendered nearly tight. Inward rotation in the nearly extended position is limited by the ilio- femoral ligament; and in flexion by the ischio-femoral ligament and the portion of the capsule between it and the ilio-femoral band.