460 THE MUSCLES The levator claviculae arises from the transverse processes of the first and second cervical vertebrae ; it appears as a dismemberment of the levator anguUscapulae. It is inserted into the outer half of the clavicle. Levator glandulae thyroideae.—This muscle arises from the isthmus, but more frequently from the pyramidal process of the thyroid body. It is inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid Kmc. Frequently it is con- nected with the thyro-hyoid muscle, and occasionally with the sterno-thyroid. The mento-hyoideus is a slip of muscle which arises from the body of the hyoid bone. Sometimes it consists of two parallel slips. It is inserted into the symphysis superficial to the mylo-hyoid muscle. The mylo-glossus, a small accessory slip of the stylo-glossus, arises from the angle of the mandible, or from the stylo-maxillary ligament. It is inserted into the side of the tongue between the stylo- and hyo-glossus muscles. |~For figure, see Wood, Proc Roy. Soc. vol xv. p. 523.] Obliquus inferior accessorius.—A small muscular slip which passes from the inferior rectus to the inferior oblique muscle. The occipitalis minor arises from the fascia over the occipital origin of the trapezius and terminates in the fascia over the insertion of the steruo-inastoiu. The occipito-hyoid arises froui the mastoid process of the temporal bone and adjacent portion of the superior nuchal line. It passes superficially across the sterno-mastoid near its origin, to be insertexl into the hyoid bone near the junction of the cornua with the basd-byoid, and in close association with the posterior belly of the digastric. [Perriu : good figures in Journ. of Anat and Phys. vol. v. pp. 251-3.] The occipito-scapular. or rhomboideus occipitalis, arises from the occipital bone on a level with the splenitis capitis under cover of the trapezius. It passes downwards to be inserted into the posterior border of the scapula at the base of the spine. [For figure, see Wood, Proc Pay. Soc. vol. xv. p. 521.] The opponens hallucis arises from the oblique adductor of the great toe. and is inserted into the first metatarsal bone. The opponens minimi digiti pedis arises from the flexor brevis minimi digiti and is inserted into the fifth metatarsal bone. Pectoralis minimus.—A rare muscle which arises from the cartilage of the first rib. and is inserted into the coracoid process. The peroneo-calcaneus internus arises from the lower part of the flexor (posteriori surface of the fibula, external to the origin of the flexor lougus hallucis. Its tendon passes beneath the internal annular ligament with the tendon of the flexor lougus hallucis, to be inserted into the fore part of the inner surface of the calcanenm. [For figure and reference, see Thane. Proc Anat. Soc. of Gt. Britain and Ireland, May 1891.] The peroneo-tibialis arises from the inner side of the head of the fibula. It is inserted into the upper extremity of the oblique line of the tibia beneath the pop- lit eus. Theperoneus accessorius arises from the fibula, between the peroneus lougus and the pero- ueus brevis, and joins the tendon of the longtts in the sole of the foot. The peroneus quartus arises from the flexor surface of the fibula between the peroneus brevis and flexor longus hallucis. It is inserted into the ridge of the cuboid, peivueo-cuboideus, or iuto the peroneal tubercle of the ealcaneuin. peroneo-caleaueus externus. The peroneus quinti digiti arises from the lower fourth of the fibula under cover of the peroneus brevis. It is inserted iuto the aponeurosis on the extensor surface of the little toe. [Wenzel Gruber has devoted a monograph to this muscle, entitled Mitscuhis Peronei Digiti T. Berlin. 1886.] The petro-pharyngeus arises from the vaginal process of the temporal bone and is instrttd into the pharynx. The pharyngo-mastoideus arises from the mastoid process and is inserted into the pharynx. The pisi-annularis arises from the pisiform bone and is inserted iuto the annular ligament. The pisi-metacarpeus arises from the pisiform bone and is inserted into the fifth metacarpal. It frequently forms part of the abductor minimi digiti. The pisi-uncinatus arises from the pisiform bone and is inserted into the hook of the unci- form. The popliteus minor arises from the femur to the inner side of the plantaris. It is inserted iuto the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The psoas parvus arises from the bodies of the last thoracic and first lumbar vertebra? and from the disc between them. It is inserted by means of a thin flat tendon iuto the ilio-peetineal line. This muscle is fre- quently present. The pterygoideus proprius arises from the crest on the greater wing of the sphenoid. It is inserted into the posterior bonier of the external pterygoid plate, and occasionally into the tuberosity of the niaxilla. [For tisure, see Wairstafle, Journ. or Anat. and Phi/s. vol. v. p. 282.] The pterygo-pharyngeus externus arises from the hamular process of the sphenoid bone and is inserted into the pharynx.