THE PERINjEUM PROPER io(;r, is joined by the sloping inner wall where the ischio-rectal fascia joins the obturator fascia, so that the space is angular y\ in outline in frontal section. So far all anatomists are agreed, but the remaining boundaries require further investigation. If the ringer be introduced into the anterior part of the fossa, it will meet the line of junction of the triangular ligaments with the fascia of Colles; and above this will be found an anterior recess of considerable size extending forward nearly as far as the symphysis, between the superior triangular ligament and the under surface of the levator ani, and limited internally by the prostate and pubo-prostatic ligaments, and externally by the pubic and ischial rami. At the back part of the space will be felt the border of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and above this a posterior recess running backwards for a variable distance towards the sacrum. Both of these deep extensions are lined by the ischio-rectal and obturator fasciae, and rilled with fat and connective tissue. The ischio-rectal fossa must then be described as an anvil- or T-shaped cavity with anterior and posterior recesses running the one above the perinaeal ledge, the other above the sacro-sciatic ligaments. Contents.—The ischio-rectal fossa is filled with loose adipose tissue continuous with the subcutaneous fat of the buttock, and traversed from without inwards by the inferior haemorrhoidal branches of the pudic artery, and by the associated veins and some twigs of the internal pudic nerve passing to the sphincter ani and adjacent skin and mucous membrane. The veins are usually somewhat dilated near the anal margin, and when morbidly enlarged constitute the condition known as haemorrhoids or piles. Near the posterior border of the triangular ligaments the pudic vessels and nerves give off their superficial perinaeal branches, which almost immediately enter the super- ficial perinaeal interspace. A small branch of the fourth sacral nerve may be seen turning over the back of the space to reach the anal integument. THE PERINiEUM PROPER The perinaeum proper (figs. 647, 652), considered apart from the portion of the common integument which covers it in, is a curious triangular ledge of tissue stretched almost horizontally across the angular interval between the two ischio- pubic rami. It is pierced by the urethra (and also by the vagina in the female), and comprises three strong fasciae which enclose within two interfascial spaces the root of the penis with the muscles appended to it, the compressor urethrae muscle, Cowper's glands, and a number of vessels and nerves. Above it lie the prostate and levatores ani with their fasciae, and the anterior recess of each ischio-rectal fossa. The perinaeal integument has already been described. On removal of the skin with its dartos and the superficial layers of superficial fascia, a deeper plane of fascia will be exposed, connected firmly with the ischio-pubic rami. This is the fascia of Colles (the deep layer of the superficial perinaeal fascia), the most super- ficial of the three true perinaeal fasciae. The fascia of Colles is a fibrous lamina of considerable strength. It is attached on each side to the lower margin of the ischio-pubic ramus and to the ischial tuberosity; behind, it turns around the posterior border of the superficial transversus perinaei muscle to fuse with the posterior borders of the superficial and deep tri- angular ligaments and form the free border of the ' perinaeal ledge'; anteriorly, it becomes continuous with the external fascial investment of the scrotum and the fascial covering of the penis. It is between this layer and the inferior triangular ligament that extravasation of urine is especially prone to occur in rupture of the urethra. From its connec- tions it will be seen that the extension of the fluid would be arrested posteriorly and laterally by the connection of the fascia of Colles with the triangular ligaments and with the ischio-pubic rami; but it spreads freely beneath the integuments of the scrotum and of the penis as far as the neck of the glans, and to the surface of the abdomen. On the trunk, it may run in an upward direction even to the axilla, but it is prevented from descending below the groin by the connection of the