47 THE FRONTAL fissure, the remains of the metopic suture, which indicates the line of union of the two bones representing the frontal in early life. On each side of this suture a little below the centre is the frontal eminence. Below the eminences, separated by shallow grooves, are the two converging superciliary ridges, which approach each other in the median line to form the nasal eminence. The smooth space bounded by the converging superciliary ridges is the glabella. Below these ridges the bone presents the sharp supraorbital ridges which end internally at the internal angular, and externally at the external angular processes. Each ridge has a narrow, deep supraorbital notch (sometimes a complete foramen) at the junction of the inner with the middle third. At the bottom of this notch or foramen a small opening communicates with the diploe. The external angular processes are prominent and articulate with the malar bones; from each process a ridge extends upwards and backwards, marking off the lateral aspect of the bone, where it assists in the formation of the temporal ridge and fossa. The internal angular processes articulate with the lachrymal bones, and are separated by a serrated interval, the nasal notch, which receives the upper borders of the nasal bones, and outside these the nasal processes of the maxilla?. The notch has in the middle a long pointed process, the nasal spine, which lies between the upper part of the nasal bones and the mesethmoid. On each side of the spine an opening leads into the large frontal sinuses. The under surfaces of the orbital plates are smooth and concave; they form the Fig. 57.—The Froxtal Bone. (Inferior view.) NASAL SPINE roofs of the orbits. Each is sharply limited anteriorly by the supraorbital ridge, and presents at the outer angle the lachrymal fossa for the reception of the lachrymal gland. Near the internal angle there is the small shallow supra- trochlear fossa for the pulley of the superior oblique muscle. A sharp ridge runs backwards from the internal angular process, and articulates successively with the lachrymal and the os planum of the ethmoid. It has two notches, which are converted into the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals by articulation with the os planum. The posterior border of each orbital plate articulates with the lesser wing of the ^ ienoid (orbito-sphenoid), and is continuous with a rough triangular surface for the greater wing (ali-sphenoid). This triangular surface is continuous anteriorly with the serrated malar ridge of the frontal, and, laterally, with that border of the bone which articulates with the parietals to form the coronal suture. Between the ethmoidal notch and the inner margin of the orbital surface there is an irregular surface which forms the roofs of the ethmoidal cells. Articulations.—The frontal articulates with the parietal, sphenoid, ethmoid, lachrymal, malar, maxilla, and nasal bones; with the epipterics when present, and occasionally (as explained on page 38) with the squamosal, and with the sphenoidal turbinal when it creeps into the orbit. It has the following muscles attached to it:— Corrugator supercilii. Temporal. Occipito-frontalis. Orbicularis palpebrarum.