1013 THE SUPRARENAL BODIES position in one or other loin; or, still more rarely, it may be triple, in which case the additional gland is either lateral or median. 4. In position.—One or both kidneys may be above or below the normal level, in the latter and far more frequent case encroaching upon the iliac fossa, or even entering the true pelvis in front of or behind the rectum; or the displacement may be horizontal, the organ lying upon the vertebral column or even in the opposite loin. 5. By fusion of the two kidneys; the union involving the lower extremities only (' horseshoe kidney '), or the whole length of their inner borders. 6. In mobility.—Undue mobility is usually, if not always, due to a laxity of that portion of the subperitoneal tissue which constitutes the fatty capsule; but a peritoneal meso-nephron is said to have been seen in extremely rare cases of movable kidney THE SUPRARENAL BODIES These structures do not form any part of the genito-urinary apparatus, but it is convenient to describe them in association with the glands by which they are supported. The suprarenal bodies (fig. 615) are two solid viscera resting each upon the upper extremity of the corresponding kidney and the adjoining parts of its inner and anterior surfaces, and bound to it by subperitoneal connective tissue. They lie against the diaphragm opposite the eleventh rib, or tenth intercostal space, and are separated from each other by a space of about two inches and a half. The left is usually a little higher than the right, OAving to the greater elevation of its kidnej-. Fig. 615.—Diagram showing Anterior Relations of Kidneys and Suprarenal Bodies. duodenal area hepatic area gastric area (non-peritoneal) (non-peritoneal) caval area (peritoneal) (NON (NON PERITONEAL AREA WITH RIGHT PERITONEAL AREA WITH LEFT C0LI0 VESSELS COLIC VESSELS The organ varies widely in dimensions within physiological limits. Its average weight is about a drachm, its height an inch and a quarter (3 cm.), and its greatest breadth at the base an inch and three-quarters (4.5 cm.). The right suprarenal body is pyramidal in form with the apex directed upwards and somewhat inwards. Its anterior surface is related above to a special impression upon the under and back part of the right lobe of the liver, between the layers of the coronary ligament; internally to the inferior vena cava which slightly overlaps it (Rolleston); and below is covered with peritoneum continuous with that of the kidney, except at its internal inferior angle where it is crossed by the hepatic flexure of the duodenum. It is rather firmly adherent to the liver, and the vessels of the two organs anastomose with each other at this point. The left suprarenal body is a little larger than its fellow, somewhat crescentic in shape, and encroaches less upon the summit of the kidney than the right, and more upon the inner border, reaching even to the hilum. Its anterior surface is