ABNORMAL MUSCLES 459 This is the most frequent of all the muscles to which the term ' abnormal' is applied. [For figure, see Wood, Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xv. p. 521.] The extensor annularis arises from the posterior surface of the ulnar shaft below the ex- tensor indicis. When an extensor medius is also present, it will arise in common with the annularis. The tendon passes under the annular ligament with the common extensor, and is inserted into the tendon of the ring (fourth) finger. The extensor brevis digitorum manus arises from the ligamentous tissues on the back of the carpus, or from one of the bones of the forearm, or from the posterior annular ligament. It passes under the posterior annular ligament, and gives off three slips which blend with the tendons of the third, fourth, and fifth digits. The extensor carpi radialis accessorius arises from the humerus below the extensor carpi radialis longior. It is inserted into the metacarpal bone of the thumb, or into the abductor pollicis, or into the first dorsal interosseous muscle. Extensor carpi radialis intermedius.—This muscle usually arises from one or both the radial extensors of the carpus, and more rarely from the humerus. It is inserted into the second or third metacarpal bone. The extensor coccygis arises from the posterior surface of the last piece of the sacrum. It is inserted into the posterior surface of the coccyx. The extensor medii digiti arises from the ulna below the extensor indicis, or from the pos- terior annular ligament. It is inserted into the extensor expansion of the middle finger. The extensor ossis metatarsi hallucis arises as a slip from the extensor pfoprius hallucis or from the extensor communis digitorum, or from the tibialis anticus. It may arise as a separate muscle close to the extensor proprius. It is inserted into the metatarsal bone of the hallux. The extensor primi internodii hallucis longus is usually an offset from the extensor proprius, but it may arise separately from the fibula and interosseous membrane or from the tibialis anticus. It is inserted into the inner part of the base of the first phalanx of the hallux. [See Wood, Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xv. p. 535.] The flexor accessorius longus arises from the fascia over the flexor longus hallucis, or from the fibula or tibia; it passes with the tendon of this muscle beneath the internal annular ligament; and ends in a tendon which Crosses the long plantar ligament obliquely, to be inserted into the sesamoid bone in the tendon of the peroneus longus, or it joins the long flexor or the accessorius. When this muscle is present, the accessorius is sometimes absent. [For figure, see Thane, Proc. Anat. Soc. of Gt. Britain and Ireland, May 1891.] The flexor carpi radialis brevis vel profundus arises from the front surface of the radius near the anterior border, above the pronator quadratus, but below the flexor longus pollicis. The insertion is very variable : in some cases it only reaches the annular ligament, whilst in others it passes under this structure to be inserted into the trapezium, magnum, or the base of the second or third metacarpal bones. [For figure, see Wood, Journ, of Anat. and Pliys. vol. i. p. 57.] The gluteo-perinealis arises from the fascia at the lower border of the gluteus maximus. It joins the transversus perinei or is inserted into the triangular ligament. The gluteus quartus arises from the anterior part of the inferior gluteal ridge of the ilium ; it lies in close contact with the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. It is inserted into the top of the great trochanter of the femur anterior to the insertion of the gluteus minimus. [For good figure, see Gruber, Virchow Arch. bd. cvii. s. 480.] Hyo-epiglottideus.—This muscle arises from the middle of the ridge on the lingual aspect of the epiglottis. It is inserted into the median tubercle on the body of the hyoid bone. It is often represented by a fibrous band. [See Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. xxiii. p. 256.] The iliacus minor, or ilio-capsularis, arises from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium. It is inserted into the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, or into the ilio-femoral portion of the capsule. The interclavicular muscle usually consists of two fleshy bellies with a stout intermediate tendon. It arises from the clavicle, anterior to the attachment of the rhomboid ligament and from the ligament itself. It is inserted into a corresponding position on the opposite clavicle, and fills up the gap be- tween the sternal ends of the clavicles. [Lane, Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. xx. p. 544.] The interosseus primus volaris is a slender muscle arising from the ulnar side of the base of the first metacarpal bone. It is inserted into the side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb in common with the adductor pollicis. Its origin and insertion are marked in fig. 135, p. 130. The ischio-aponeuroticus, or tensor fasciae cruralis, arises from one of the hamstring muscles, and is inserted into the fascia on the back of the leg. Kerato-thyroid.—A short, slender muscle arising from the lower border of the cricoid carti- lage behind the articular facet. It is inserted into the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage.