THE SYMPHYSIS PUBIS 207 the anterior and posterior ligaments of the symphysis, add very materially to its security. In fact, the ligament may be said to split superiorly into two layers, one passing over the front, and the other over the back of the articulation. It is sometimes known as the ligamentum arcuatum. The interosseous fibro-cartilage varies in thickness in different subjects, but is thicker in the female than in the male. It is thicker in front than behind, and projects beyond the edges of the bones, especially posteriorly (see fig. 212), blend- ing intimately with the ligaments at its margins. It is sometimes uninterruptedly Fig. 212.—Posterior View of the Symphysis Pubis, showing the Backward Projec- tion of the Symphysial Substance and the Decussation of the Fibres from the Inferior Pubic Ligament. Inferior pubic ligament woven throughout, but at others has an elongated narrow fissure, partially dividing the cartilage into two plates, with a little fluid in the interspace (fig. 213). This is situated towards the upper and posterior aspects, but does not usually reach either; it generally extends about half the length of the cartilage. When this cavity is large, especially if it reaches or approaches very near to the circumference of the cartilage (which, however, it very rarely does), it is thought by some anatomists that it more nearly resembles a diarthrodial than an amphiarthrodial joint, and it is then classed with the sacro-iliac joint under similar conditions, as ' diarthro- Fig. 213.—Section of Symphysis to show the Synovial Cavity. amphiarthrosis.' The interosseous cartilage is intimately adherent to the rough osseous surface of the bone, which is ridged to give it a firmer attachment; and, on forcing the bones apart, it does not frequently split into two plates, but is torn from the bone on one side or the other. The arterial supply is from twigs of the internal pudic, pubic branches of the obturator and epigastric, and ascending branches of the internal circumflex and superficial external pudic. The nerve-supply has not been satisfactorily made out, but it probably comes,