THE ARTICULATIONS 240 from the scaphoid to the cuneiform bone; besides binding down the head of the magnum, it serves to fix the upper and outer angle of the unciform in the socket formed by the first row. The dorsal ligaments, like the palmar, are strengthened by a quantity of fibrous tissue belonging to the sheaths of the extensor tendons, and by an extension of some of the fibres of the capsule of the wrist. There are no proper lateral medio- carpal ligaments; they are but prolongations of the lateral ligaments of the wrist. The synovial membrane (fig. 235) of the carpus is common to all the joints of the carpus, and extends to the bases of the four inner metacarpal bones. Thus, besides lining the inter- or medio-carpal joint, it sends two processes upwards between the three bones of the first row, and three downwards between the con- tiguous surfaces of the trapezoid and trapezium, the trapezoid and magnum, and magnum and unciform. From these latter, prolongations extend to the four inner carpo-metacarpal joints and the three intermetacarpal joints. The arterial supply is derived from (a) the anterior and posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries; (6) the carpal branch of the anterior interosseous; (c) the recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch. The terminal twigs of the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries supply the joint on its dorsal aspect. The nerve-supply comes from the ulnar on the ulnar side, the median on the radial side, and the posterior interosseous behind. The movements of the carpal articulations between bones of the same row are very limited and consist only of slight gliding upon one another; but. slight as they are, they give elasticity to the carpus to break the jars and shocks which result from blows or falls upon the hand. The movements of one row of bones upon the other at the medio-carpal joint are more extensive, especially in the direction of flexion and extension, so that the hand enjoys a greater range of these movements than is permitted at the wrist-joint alone. At the wrist, extension is more free than flexion; but this is balanced by the greater freedom of flexion than of extension at the medio-carpal joint, and by flexion at the carpo-metacarpal joint, so that on the whole the range of flexion of the hand is greater than that of extension. A slight amount of lateral motion accompanied by a limited degree of rotation also takes place; this rotation consists in the head of the magnum and the superior and outer angle of the unciform bone rotating in the socket formed by the three bones of the upper row, and in a gliding forwards and backwards of the trapezium and trapezoid upon the scaphoid. In addition to the ligaments, the undulating outline and the variety of shapes of the apposed facets render this joint very secure. Bearing in mind the mobility of this medio-carpal joint and of the carpo- metacarpal, we see at once the reason for the radial and ulnar flexors and extensors of the carpus being prolonged down to their insertion into the base of the meta- carpus, for they produce the combined effect of motion at each of the three transverse articulations: (1) at the wrist; (2) at the medio-carpal; (3) at the carpo-metacarpal joints. 8. THE CARPO-METACARPAL JOINTS These may be divided into two sets, namely:— (a) The carpo-metacarpal joints of the four inner fingers. (b) The carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb. The inferior surfaces of three of the bones of the second row of the carpus present a composite surface for the four inner metacarpal bones; the trapezium presents a distinct and separate saddle-shaped surface for the base of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb.