S34 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM THE GREAT PREVERTEBRAL PLEXUSES The great prevertebral plexuses, as we have already noticed, are the cardiac, solar, and hypogastric. They are formed mainly by branches derived from the gangliated cords, but also receive fibres from the cerebro-spinal nerves; thus the cardiac plexus and solar plexuses are joined by branches of the pneumogastric, and the hypogastric plexus is joined by branches of the third and fourth and sometimes the second sacral nerves. CARDIAC PLEXUS As already noted, each pneumogastric nerve gives off two or three cervical cardiac branches, a thoracic cardiac branch, and additional branches may spring from the recurrent laryngeal nerve. There are also three cardiac nerves which arise from the cervical sympathetic cord on each side. These nerves all proceed to the cardiac plexus, but their course and arrangement is extremely variable. It is very common to find the upper cervical cardiac branches of the vagus and sympathetic uniting to form a common trunk; in other cases the nerves branch and communicate with one another in a plexiform maimer. The cardiac plexus, although forming a continuous network of nerves, is for convenience divided into a superficial and a deep plexus. The superficial plexus is situated immediately below the arch of the aorta, internal to the ligamentum ductus arteriosus; it receives the left superior cardiac nerve of the sympathetic and the left inferior cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric. The deep cardiac plexus is placed in front of the bifurcation of the trachea between that structure and the aortic arch; it receives all the other cardiac nerves. Superficial cardiac plexus.—The superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic and the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the vagus cross the so-called transverse part of the aortic arch on its left side, being placed between the artery and the left pleura. The nerves then enter the interval between the aortic arch and the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, where they communicate with the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglion (the cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg) is usually developed at the point of communication. Branches are furnished to the right coronary plexus and also to the left lung. The latter branches join the anterior pulmonary plexus. Deep cardiac plexus.—The deep cardiac plexus receives all the right cardiac nerves, and also the cardiac nerves of the left side, with the exception of the superior cervical cardiac of the sympathetic and the inferior cervical cardiac of the vagus. The plexus is placed in front of the bifurcation of the trachea, and gives off the following branches:—(a) Branches to the anterior pulmonary plexuses of both sides; (b) the left coronary plexus; (c) branches to the right auricle; (d ) communicating branches to the superficial cardiac plexus; and (e) branches to the right coronary plexus. Right coronary plexus.—This plexus is formed by branches from both the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses. It follows the branches of the right coronary artery for a certain distance, beyond which the nerves diverge from the arteries, and run between the pericardium and the muscular substance of the heart. Finally they enter the muscular substance. Left coronary plexus.—This plexus is larger than the right. It arises from the deep cardiac plexus, passes forwards between the left auricular appendix and the pulmonary artery, and accompanies the branches of the left coronary artery. The auricles are supplied by the lower, and the ventricles, pulmonary artery and aorta by the upper cardiac nerves. The cardiac plexuses and the network of nervous structures in the walls of the auricles are the remains of the primitive plexuses found in the embryo which are called the bulbar, the intermediate, and the atrial plexuses, terms which sufficiently indicate their relative positions. The bulbar plexus gives off the coronary nerves and is transformed into the superficial and part of the deep cardiac plexus; the remainder of the deep cardiac plexus is formed by the intermediate plexus and the atrial plexus becomes the auricular network.