lose; SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY brane pass through the ethmoid and internal orbital foramina. The fact that the nasal mucous membrane is loose and ill-supported on the turbinated hones allows its vessels to give way readily, and thus forms a salutary safeguard to the brain, warding off many an attack of apoplexy. 2. Vein through the mastoid foramen, between the lateral sinus and the pos- terior auricular and occipital veins. This is the largest, the most constant, and the most superficial of the emissary veins. Hence the old rule of applying blisters or leeches over it in cerebral congestion. 3. Vein through the posterior superior angle of the parietal between the supe- rior longitudinal sinus and the veins of the scalp. 4. Vein through the posterior condyloid foramen between the lateral sinus and the deep veins of the neck. 5. Vein through the anterior condyloid foramen between the occipital sinus and the deep veins of the neck. 6. Ophthalmic veins communicating with the cavernous sinus and the angular vein. These veins may be the source of fatal blood-poisoning, by conveying out of reach septic material, in acute periostitis of the orbit, or in osteitis, of dental origin, of the jaws. 7. Minute veins through the foramen ovale between the cavernous sinus and the pharyngeal and pterygoid veins. 8. Communications between the frontal diploic and supraorbital veins, between the anterior temporal diploic and deep temporal veins, and between the posterior temporal and occipital diploic veins and the lateral sinus. The gravity of these emissary veins and their free communications with others is shown by the readiness with which they become the seat of septic thrombosis, and thus of blood-poisoning, in cranial injuries, erysipelas, suppuration of the scalp, and necrosis of the skull. Structure of cranium.—Two layers and intervening cancellous tissue. Each layer has special properties. The outer gives thickness, smoothness, and uniformity, and, above all, elasticity. The inner is whiter, thinner, less regular— e.g. the depressions for vessels, Pacchionian bodies, dura mater, and brain. Its chief characteristics are its fragility (vitreous) and absolute inelasticity. The diploe, formed by absorption after the skull has attained a certain thickness, reduces the weight of the skull without proportionately reducing its strength, and provides a material which will prevent the transmission of vibrations. Results of the above varying elasticity.—A blow on the head may fracture the internal table only, the external one and diploe escaping. This is difficult to diagnose, and thus it is impossible to judge of the severity of a fracture from the state of the external table. This may be whole, or merely cracked, while the internal shows many fragments, which may set up meningitis, or other mischief. Anatomical conditions tending to minimise the effects of violence inflicted upon the skull.—(1) The density and mobility of the scalp. (2) The dome-like shape of the skull. This, like an egg-shell, is calculated to bear relatively hard blows and also to allow them to glide off. (3) The number of bones tends to break up the force of a blow. (4) The sutures interrupt the transmission of violence. (5) The internal membrane (remains of foetal peri- osteum) acts, in early life, as a linear buffer. (6) The elasticity of the outer table. (7) The overlapping of some bones, e.g. the parietal by the squamous; and the alternate bevelling of adjacent bones, e.g. at the coronal suture. (8) The presence of ribs, or groins, e.g. (a) from the crista galli to the internal occipital protuberance; (b) from the root of the nose to the zygoma; (c) the temporal ridge from orbit to mastoid; (d) from mastoid to mastoid; (e) from the external occipital protuberance to the foramen magnum. (9) Buttresses, e.g. malar and zygomatic processes, and the greater wing of the sphenoid. (10) The mobility of the head upon the spine. CRANIO-CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY To make as clear as possible the points of practical importance which have, of late years, been put on a definite basis, and which the surgeon may have to recall and act upon at very short notice, cranio-cerebral topography will be spoken of