1138 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY blending with Poupart's ligament, will be affected by movements of the thigh, much as is the external abdominal ring, being tightened and stretched when the limb is extended and abducted, relaxed when it is adducted and flexed. The parts beneath the ligament which block up the gap between it and the innominate bone are of the utmost importance in preventing the escape of a femoral hernia. The different structures are arranged in three compartments, named from with- out inwards—A. Outer, or iliac; B. Central, or vascular; and C. Inner, or pectineal. Of these, the first is the largest; the second or central one lies on a • plane slightly more superficial, or nearer to Poupart's ligament,than the other two; while the innermost compartment differs from the other two by not communicating with the pelvis, being closed above by fascia (vide infra). (A) The outer, or iliac, compartment is bounded in front by Poupart's ligament and the iliac fascia, which is here blending with it, behind by the ilium, externally by this bone and the sartorius, and internally by the ilio-pectineal septum, which, descending from the blending of the iliac fascia and Poupart's ligament above, passes down to the ilio-pectineal eminence, and thence to the inner aspect of the front of the capsule of the hip-joint. This compartment transmits the ilio-psoas and anterior crural and external cutaneous nerves. (B) The central, or vascular, compartment is bounded, in front, by Poupart's ligament and the transversalis fascia, which here blends with it, forming the so-called deep crural arch, and at the same time descends on to the front of the femoral sheath. The posterior boundary is formed by the meeting of the ilio-pectineal septum externally and the pectineal fascia 01 sheath from within—internally Gimbernat's ligament, and externally the ilio- pectineal septum. This central compartment transmits the external iliac vessels and crural branch of the genito-crural nerve. This lies to the outer side of the artery, the vein internally. Between the vein and the base of Gimbernat's ligament is the femoral canal (vide infra). (C) The innermost, or pectineal, compartment is bounded by the pectineal fascia continuous with the pubic part of the fascia lata, and behind by the pubic ramus. It lodges the upper end of the pectineus muscle, and the handle of a scalpel passed upwards along the muscle would be prevented from passing into the pelvis by Gimbernat's ligament and the blending of the pectineal fascia with the upper border of the pubic ramus. (3) Gimbernat's ligament.—This is merely the triangular internal attach- ment of Poupart's ligament. Its apex is attached to the pubic spine; of its three borders, the base is free towards the vein and the femoral canal. Its upper border is continuous with Poupart's ligament, its lower is attached to the ilio-pectineal line. (4) Fascia lata.—Two portions are described over the upper part of the thigh:—(a) An iliac, external and stronger, attached to Poupart's ligament in its whole extent and lying over the sartorius, ilio-psoas, and rectus, (b) A pubic, internal, weaker, and much less well defined, is attached above to the ilio-pectineal line and the spine of the pubes. The upper cornu of the ' saphenous opening ' is at Gimbernat's ligament, and at the lower cornu the two portions of the fascia blend. Their relation to the femoral vessels.—The iliac portion, being attached along Poupart's ligament, passes over these. The pubic portion, fastened down over the pectineus, which slopes down on to a deeper plane than the adjacent muscles, passes behind the femoral vessels to end on the capsule of the hip-joint. (5) Saphenous opening.—This is doubly a misnomer. It is not an opening, but an oval depression, situated at the spot where the two parts of the fascia lata diverge on different levels. As without dissection it is not an opening, but an oval depression, fossa ovalis would have been a better term, were it not otherwise employed. Though the fascia lata is wanting here, there is no real opening, as the deficiency is made up by the deep layer of superficial fascia, or cribriform fascia, which fills up the opening. The term 'saphenous' is also misapplied: etj-mologi- cally, it means ' very evident.' Now, it is notorious that in very many subjects this opening only becomes plain when rendered an artificial one by dissection; and that thus, with the limited opportunities of one or two subjects, it is by no means easy to verify the details about it which have been described as constant.