RELATION OF KIDNEYS TO ABDOMINAL WALLS 1121 Aorta and iliac arteries.—The aorta enters the abdomen opposite the last thoracic vertebra (a point five to six inches above the umbilicus, or rather above the mid-point between the infrasternal depression and the umbilicus (Thane and Godlee), and thence, lying to the left of the spine, divides into the two common iliacs opposite the disc' between the third and fourth lumbar vertebra?, or opposite the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. This point is about one inch below and to the left of the umbilicus, and on a level with a line drawn across the highest part of the iliac crest. A line drawn from this point, with a curve slightly out- wards, to just within the centre of Poupart's ligament, will give the line of the Fig. 690.—The Abdominal Aoeta and Inferior Vena Cava GALL BLADDER HEPATIC DUCT CYSTIC DUCT COMMON DUCT Portal vein Gaslro-duodenal br. —~ Superior pyloric br. — Hepatic artery Eight suprarenal vein — Inferior suprarenal artery Renal artery Renal vein Inferior vena cava KIDNEY Right spermatic vein Right spermatic artery Quadratus lumborum muscle Lumbar artery and vein Ureteric branch of spermatic artery Middle sacral vessels LEFT LOBE OF LIVER ESOPHAGUS Left phrenic artery Right phrenic artery Superior suprarenal Gastric artery ^r- Inferior suprarenal Splenic artery Left phrenic vein Lift suprarenal vein Superior mesenteric artery KIDNEY ■— Ureteric branch of renal — Left spermatic vein URETER Left spermatic artery Inferior mesenteric artery kllllk'.th. Ureteric branch of spermatic Ureteric branch of common iliac Common iliac artery External iliac artery Internal iliac artery iliac arteries; the first two inches (about) giving the average length of the common iliac. The site of some of the branches of the aorta may be thus approximately remembered. The cceliac axis is given off immediately after the aorta has perforated the diaphragm; directly below this is the superior mesenteric artery. About one inch lower down, or three inches above the umbilicus, the renal arteries are given off. About one inch above the umbilicus would be the level of the inferior mesenteric artery. Collateral circulation after ligature of the common iliac.—The chief vessels here are:— 71