679 THE BRAIN THE ENCEPHAL ON The encephalon, or brain, is the portion of the cerebro-spinal axis which is lodged within the cranial cavity and constitutes (by weight) about 98 per cent, of the whole. It consists of the cerebrum, the cerebellum, the pons Varolii, and the medulla oblongata. The medulla is continuous with the spinal cord at the decus- sation of the pyramids. The encephalon, taken as a whole, is ellipsoidal or ovoidal in form, presenting above a tolerably even convexity formed by the cerebral hemi- spheres, but below a more irregular surface corresponding to the fossa? in the base of the skull. The cerebrum comprises the cerebral hemispheres containing the lateral ventricles (prosencephalon), the optic thalami with the third ventricle between them (thalamencephalon )l and the mesencephalon. It occupies the upper compartment of the cranial cavity, resting on a floor formed by the anterior and middle cranial fossa? and the tentorium cerebelli. The cerebellum occupies the posterior cranial fossa, and is placed behind the fourth ventricle. It is con- nected by three pairs of peduncles or crura to the cerebrum, pons, and the medulla respectively. The fourth ventricle is bounded in front by the pons and medulla. In every part of the encephalon two distinct kinds of nervous substance are to be met with, termed grey and white matter. The grey matter is chiefly disposed upon the surface, as in the convolutions of the cerebrum and cerebellum ; but it is also met with in detached or partially detached masses or nuclei, such as the corpora striata and optic thalami in the cerebrum, the nuclei of the medulla and pons, and the corpus deutatum of the cerebellum. It is composed of groups of ganglion cells, which possess the power of originating nervous impulses ; or of receiv- ing impulses produced by the action of external stimidi on the end-organs of nerves ; or of modify- ing and redirecting such impulses. The white matter occurs in the greatest quantity in the central parts of the cerebral hemispheres. It is composed of medullated nerve-fibres, which conduct the impulses to and from the ganglion cells in the grey matter. Both grey and white matter are supported by a delicate interstitial tissue termed neuroglia. Base of the Brain Dissection.—The student is recommended to commence the dissection of the brain by a general examination of the structures forming the base of that organ. He should carefully remove the remains of the membranes from the base, and after studying that region should pro- ceed in a similar manner to remove the membranes from the superior and lateral surfaces of the cerebral hemispheres. The base of the brain presents for examination the inferior surfaces of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes of the cerebrum ; the structures contained within and adjacent to the interpeduncular space ; the anterior surfaces of the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata, the inferior surfaces of the lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum ; and the superficial origins of the cranial nerves. In front, the orbital surfaces of the frontal lobes are seen separated from one another by the great longitudinal fissure, and indented by the triradiate and olfactory sulci, the latter occupied by the olfactory tract and bulb. Behind and somewhat laterally the frontal lobes are marked off from the temporal lobes by the fissure of Sylvius, near the commencement of which is the anterior perforated space. This space is of a grey colour, and is formed by a part of the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum, which comes to the surface at the base of the brain. The perforations are caused by small arteries which proceed from the middle cerebral artery to the corpus striatum. Each space is bounded internally by one of the peduncles of the corpus callosum. The latter are white bands which pass from the corpus callosum to the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius. Between the temporo-sphenoidal lobes is a large recess, which is bounded in front by the frontal lobes, and behind by the pons Varolii ; within this is the remarkable arterial anastomosis known as the circle of Willis, the crura cerebri, the interpeduncular space, portions of the optic tracts with the optic commissure, the lamina cinerea, and portions of the third and fourth pairs of nerves. The interpeduncular space is situated between the diverging crura cerebri. It corresponds below to the deepest part of the cisterna pontis, and above to the posterior part of the floor of the third ventricle. It contains (1) the posterior perforated space, and in front of this (2) a pair of white rounded eminences, the corpora albicantia or mammillaria, and (3) a conical greyish elevation, the tuber cinereum, ending in a thin tubular process, the infundibulum. The latter passes to the pituitary body, from which it is detached in removing the brain by the ordinary method. Immediately in front of the tuber cinereum is the optic commissure, from which the optic tracts can be traced for a short distance backwards and outwards, winding round the crura cerebri, and