THE SKELETON 32 the foramen rotundum for the second division of the fifth nerve; behind and external to this is the foramen ovale, for the motor root and the third division of the fifth nerve, the small petrosal nerve, the small meningeal artery, and an emis- sary vein from the cavernous sinus. Behind and external to the foramen ovale is the small circular foramen spinosum, for the middle meningeal artery, its vena? comites, and the recurrent branch of the third division of the fifth nerve. To the inner side of the foramen ovale a small opening, the foramen Vesalii, is occasion- ally present; it transmits a vein. A foramen may exist near the foramen ovale for the small superficial petrosal nerve, the canaliculus innominatus. The external surface is divided by the prominent malar crest into an orbital and a temporo- zygomatic portion. The orbital surface forms the chief part of the outer wall of the orbit; its internal segment forms part of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and presents the anterior orifice of the foramen rotundum. Near the middle of the upper border there is a small tubercle for the origin of the outer head of the external rectus muscle; and at the highest part of this surface one or more foramina are often present, for the transmission of twigs from the middle meningeal artery to the orbit and the lachrymal gland. The malar crest is serrated for articulation with the malar bone; its lower angle, in many bones, articulates with the maxilla. A foramen exists in the suture between the sphenoid and malar, for the temporal twig of the orbital nerve. The surface of bone outside this ridge is subdivided by a low Fig. 39.—Eight Half of Sphenoid. (Anterior view.) crest, the pterygoid ridge. The surface above the ridge forms part of the temporal fossa, and affords attachment to the temporal muscle; the part below the crest be- longs to the zygomatic fossa; it furnishes attachment to the external pterygoid muscle, and is continuous with the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate; it contains the inferior orifices of the foramina spinosum, ovale, and VTesalii, and forms part of the roof of the zygomatic fossa. The circumference of the great wing, commencing at its anterior attachment to the body, is at first smooth, and forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure ; this serves for the passage of the third, fourth, first division (ophthalmic) of the fifth, and the sixth nerves, with the ophthalmic vein. External to this, the margin is broad and serrated for the frontal bone; quite at the tip it is bevelled on its inner aspect for the anterior inferior angle of the parietal; behind this, the edge, at first thin and bevelled, becomes gradually broader, and deeply serrated for the squamosal, and runs into the prominent alar spine of the sphenoid, to which the spheno-mandibular ligament is attached and which is grooved internally by the chorda tympani nerve. That portion of the circumference extending from the spine to the body of the sphenoid articulates by the outer third with the petrosal, but the inner two-thirds forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum medium, and contains the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal. Projecting at right angles from the greater wing, near its junction with the lingular, are the pterygoid processes. Of these, the external plate, broad and