THE ARTICULATIONS 234 carpus present a smooth, convex surface, made uniformly even by the interosseous ligaments which bind them together. The capsule of the wrist-joint has been usually described as four separate liga- ments, and it will be convenient for the sake of a complete description to follow this method; but it must be understood that these four portions are continuous around the joint, extending from styloid process to styloid process on both its aspects. The four portions are:— Anterior radio-carpal. Internal lateral. Posterior radio-carpal. External lateral. The anterior radio-carpal (fig. 231) is a thick strong ligament, attached superiorly to the radius immediately above the margin of the terminal articular facet, to the curved ridge at the root of the styloid process of the radius, and to the anterior margin of the triangular cartilage, blending with some fibres of the capsule of the inferior radio-ulnar joint. It passes downwards and inwards to be attached to both rows of carpal bones, especially the second, and to the anterior intercarpal ligament. The strongest and most oblique fibres arise from the root of the styloid process of the radius, and pass obliquely over the scaphoid, with which only a few fibres are connected, to be inserted into the semilunar, magnum, and cuneiform bones. Another set, less oblique, passes from the margin of the facet for the semilunar to be attached to the adjacent parts of the magnum, unciform, and cuneiform bones. Between the two sets of fibres, small vessels pass into the joint. The posterior radio-carpal ligament (fig. 232) is attached above the dorsal edge of the lower end of the radius, the back of the styloid process, and the posterior margin of the fibro-cartilage. It passes downwards and inwards to be connected with the first row of the carpal bones, chiefly with the semilunar and cuneiform, and the posterior intercarpal ligament. This ligament is thin and membranous, and is strengthened by (i) strong fibres passing from the back of the fibro-cartilage, where they are blended with the posterior inferior radio-ulnar liga- ment, and, from the edge of the radius just behind the lesser sigmoid fossa, to the cuneiform bone; (ii) from the ridge and groove for the extensor secundi internodii