THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 674 which usually pierce the great wing of the sphenoid near the outer angle of the sphenoidal fis- sure. In the middle cranial fossa the following arteries are met with: a branch of the ascending pharyngeal which perforates the cartilage which occupies the foramen lacerum medium ; the meningea parva which enters the cranium through the foramen ovale ; the meningeal branch of the internal carotid, and twigs from the middle meningeal. In the posterior cranial fossa, two meningeal branches, derived from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal, enter through the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen, another twig from the occipital passes through the mastoid foramen, and a twig from the ascending pharyngeal makes its way through the ante- rior condyloid foramen. A meningeal branch of the vertebral is given oft' from that artery, in the interval between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum. A branch of the occipital artery (ramus parietalis, Cruveilhier) occasionally passes through the parietal foramen to the dura mater lining the calvaria. The following are the infoldings formed by the inner or supporting layer of the dura mater, taken in their order of magnitude: the falx cerebri, the tentorium Fig. 404.—Coronal Section of the Head passing through the Posterior Horns of the Lateral Ventricles. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) Lateral sinus CORPUS DENTA TUM Tentorium cerebelli cerebelli, the falx cerebelli, and the diaphragma sella?. There are also two smaller paired folds; viz. the folds which project from the lesser wings of the sphenoid bone into the Sylvian fissures of the brain, and the crescentic folds which are placed over the optic nerves at the upper margin of the optic foramina. The Falx Cerebri is a large sickle-shaped process, deeper behind than in front, which is placed in the great longitudinal fissure of the brain. It is attached by its base to the tentorium cerebelli, in the middle line, and maintains by its tension the vaulted character of the latter. The straight sinus follows this line of attachment. Its apex is firmly fixed to the crista galli of the ethmoid, and has also an attach- ment to the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid bone. Its convex or upper margin corresponds to the superior longitudinal sinus, and is attached to the periosteal layer opposite to the edges of the groove for that sinus in the frontal, the two parietal, and the occipital bones. The inferior longitudinal sinus courses along its concave or free margin. This margin closely approaches the corpus callosum behind, but is separated from it by a considerable interval in front.