143 THE HIP-BONE The upper surface or crest of the pubes is limited externally by the pubic spine, which gives attachment to the outer (inferior) pillar of the external abdominal ring and Poupart's ligament. The inner extremity of the crest is the angle of the pubes. Between it and the spine the following structures are attached:—the linea alba, the rectus abdominis, the pyramidalis, and the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. The horizontal ramus extends from the body of the pubes to the ilium, forming by its outer extremity the anterior one-fifth of the articular surface of the acetabulum. Its line of junction with the ilium forms the ilio-pubal ridge. Stretching from this ridge to the pubic spine there is a raised edge continuing the ilio-pectineal line. The surface of bone in front of the line is the pectineal surface ; it gives origin to the pectineus muscle, and is limited below by the obturator crest, which extends from the pubic spine to the cotyloid notch. The under surface of the horizontal ramus forms the upper boundary of the obturator foramen, and presents a deep groove for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. The acetabulum is a circular depression in which the head of the femur is lodged. It consists of an articular and a non-articular portion. The articular portion is circumferential and horseshoe-shaped; the deficiency is in the lower segment. The pubes forms one-fifth of the acetabulum, and the ischium two-fifths; the rest is formed by the ilium. In rare instances the pubes may be excluded by a fourth element, the cotyloid bone. The non-articular portion is formed mainly by the ischium, and is continuous below with the margin of the obturator foramen. The articular portion presents an outer rim to which the cotyloid ligament is attached, and an inner margin to which the synovial membrane is connected which excludes the ligamentum teres from the synovial cavity. The opposite angles of the horseshoe-shaped margin which limit the cotyloid notch are united by the transverse ligament, and through the cotyloid foramen thus formed a nerve and vessel enter the joint. The obturator (thyroid) foramen is situated between the ischium and pubes. Its margins are thin, and serve for the attachment of the obturator foramen. At the upper and posterior angle it is deeply grooved for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. Muscles attached to the hip-bone are:— Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Tensor vaginae femoris. Rectus femoris. Obturator externus. Obturator interims. Latissimus dorsi. Internal oblique. External oblique. Transversalis. Erector spina?. Multifidus spinas. Quadratus lumborum. Iliacus. Psoas parvus. Quadratus femoris. Accelerator urinse (occasionally). Sartorius. Pectineus. Pyramidalis. Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. Gemellus inferior. Gracilis. Adductor magnus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Levator ani. Coccygeus. Transversus perinei. Erector penis. Compressor urethra?. Biceps femoris. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. The ligaments attached to the hip-bone are Greater sacro-sciatic. Lesser sacro-sciatic. Ilio-lumbar. Transverse. Round (ligamentum teres). Anterior pubic. Posterior pubic. Superior pubic. Subpubic. Triangular. Anterior sacro-iliac. Posterior sacro-iliac. Capsular and its accessories. Cotyloid. Poupart's.