THE MUSCLES 442 Nerve-supply.—The two or three deep temporal branches of the motor portion of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, which enter the lower part of its deep surface. Action.—To close the jaw; its posterior fibres will also draw it backwards after the other muscles have protruded it. This muscle, like the masseter, has to con- tend with very little mechanical disadvantage, power being of more importance in mastication than speed. Fig. 312.—The Temporal Muscle. Temporal Relations.—Superficially, the temporal fascia which separates it from some of tin- auricular muscles, the sides of the epicranial aponeurosis, the auriculo-temporal nerve, and the upper branches of the facial nerve; the zygoma and a small part of the masseter. Deeply, the temporal fossa, and the external pterygoid muscle. At its posterior border it is crossed by the masseteric nerve and vessels. 3. PTERYGOIDEUS EXTERNUS The pterygoideus externus—named from its attachment to the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, and its relation to the companion muscle—consists of two thick triangular sheets, the one lying in a horizontal, and the other in a vertical plane. Origin.—Upper head : the under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, internal to the pterygoid ridge, and external to the foramen ovale and foramen spinosum. Lower head : All the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate, except a small strip at its lower and front part. Insertion.—Upper head: (T) The front of the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the temporo-mandibular joint; (2) the adjacent portion of the capsular ligament; (3) the upper part of the front of the neck of the condyle of the mandible. Lower head : The pit in the front of the neck of the condyle. Structure.—Arising by fleshy fibres, which are closely connected at the ptery- goid ridge with part of the temporal muscle, the upper head forms a fan-shaped sheet and passes backwards and slightly outwards to its insertion, which is by short tendinous fibres blending below with those of the lower head. The lower