927 THE HEART the points last named to the ends of the basal line. The right border consists entirely of the right auricle, and the left of the left ventricle. The position of the auriculo-ventricular sulcus is indicated by a line from the third left costal cartilage to the sixth right. Size and weight.—In the adult the heart measures about five inches (125 mm.) from base to apex, three and a half inches (87 mm.) across where it is broadest, and two and a half (62 mm.) at its thickest portion. In the male its weight averages about eleven ounces, and in the female about nine ounces. It increases both in size and weight up to advanced life, the increase being most marked up to the age of twenty-nine years. Fig. 546.—Anterior View of the Heart with the Larger Vessels. (By permission. Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) Left common carotid artery Eight superior thyroid vein Left superior | Right common carotid artery Internal jugular vein Vertebral vein Subclavian vein Inferior thyroid Vena azygos major Vena cava superior Internal jugular vein Left vertebral vein Externa l j ugula r vein Left subclavian vein Left innominate vein Left superior intercostal veil Right pulmonary artery RIGHT VENTRICLE Vena cava inferior DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS Left pulmonary artery and vein LEFT AURICULAR APPENDIX Pulmonary artery LEFT VENTRICLE The anterior surface of the heart is convex, and looks upwards and forwards. Its lower and posterior surface, which rests partly on the diaphragm, is flattened. The borders which divide the two surfaces of the heart meet near the apex; the right border is thin and rather longer than the left, whilst the latter border is thick and rounded. The auricles are divided from the ventricles by a transverse groove, the auriculo-ventricular, which is interrupted in front by the origin of the pulmonary artery. The ventricles are similarly divided from each other by the interventricu- lar groove, which runs obliquely on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the heart, meeting below just to the right of the apex where they are continuous.