332 THE MUSCLES anterior interosseous and radial arteries, wrist, metacarpophalangeal, and phalan- geal joints. * Variations.—This muscle may send a slip to the base of the first phalaDX of the thumb. It may also receive a tendinous slip from the following muscle. 5. EXTENSOR INDICTS The extensor indicis—named from its action upon the index finger—is flat and fusiform. Origin.—(1) An elongated impression which stretches downwards and slightly outwards from the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the outer division of the posterior surface of the ulna, immediately internal to the impression for the preceding muscle, but at the same time rather lower down, to within a short dis- tance of the lower extremity of that bone. (2) For-a short space from the part of the interosseous ligament which is adjacent to the lower part of this impression. (3) The septum between it and the preceding muscle. Insertion.—The inner side of the aponeurosis of the first tendon of the extensor communis digitorum. Structure.—This penniform muscle arises by fleshy fibres which pass obliquely downwards and outwards to the anterior surface of a tendon which is first seen upon the radial border of its posterior surface in the lower third of the forearm, and, becoming free just above the wrist, passes beneath the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti, and enters the fourth compartment of the posterior annular ligament, where it lies beneath the inner tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. It is then inserted into the inner edge of the aponeurosis of the tendon of the com- mon extensor belonging to the index finger, at about the level of the metacarpo- phalangeal joint, Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh cervical nerve), by a branch from the posterior interosseous division of the musculo-spiral nerve which enters the upper part of the muscle near the radial border of its superficial aspect. Action.—It assists the extensor communis digitorum in (1) extending the index finger, and especially its first phalanx. At the same time, on account of its direction, it will (2) adduct the index finger, while the action of the extensor communis digitorum upon this finger is that of extension combined with abduction. It will then assist feebly in (3) the extension of the wrist. Relations.—Superficially, the extensor communis digitorum, the extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, and posterior annular ligament. Deeply, the dorsal interosseous muscle of the second space, the wrist, and some carpal joints. Variations.—The extensor indicis may give slips to the extensor longus pollicis and to the middle finger. It may receive slips from the posterior carpal ligaments or the bases of the meta- carpal bones, and these slips may be inserted into several digits, so as to form an extensor brevis digitorum manus. THE FASCIiE OF THE HAND The dorsal fascia is a thin layer, continuous with the posterior annular liga- ment, and, like it, composed chiefly of transverse fibres. It covers the extensor tendons, and connects them together upon the back of the hand; and upon the first phalanges it blends with the aponeuroses which succeed to the tendons. Between the fingers it dips down to join the superficial transverse ligament which forms the web by which the bases of the fingers are connected. A deeper layer of the dorsal fascia covers the back of the dorsal interossei, and is attached to the back of the metacarpal bones.