262 THE ARTICULATIONS of the internal condyle of the femur; in flexion the upper pair of facets rest on the lower part of the trochlear surface of the femur; in mid-flexion the middle pair rest on the middle of the trochlear surface; while in extension the lower pair of facets on the patella rest on the upper portion of the trochlear surface of the femur. This difference may be described as the shifting of the points of contact of the articular surface. 2. It differs from a true hinge in that, in passing from a state of extension to one of flexion, the tibia does not revolve round a single transverse axis drawn through the lower end of the femur, as the ulna does round the lower end of the humerus. The articular surface of the tibia slides forwards in extension and back- wards in flexion; thus the axis round which the tibia revolves upon the femur is a shifting one, as is seen by reference to fig. 250, B, C, D. 3. Another point of difference is that extension is accompanied by rotation out- wards, and flexion by rotation inwards. This rotation occurs round a vertical axis drawn through the middle of the outer condyle of the femur and the outer tuber- osity of the tibia, and is most marked at the termination of extension and at the commencement of flexion. This rotation of the leg at the knee is a true rotation about a vertical axis, and thus differs from the obliquity of the flexion and extension movements at the elbow which is due to the oblique direction of the articular sur- faces of the bones. 4. The antero-posterior spiral curve of the femoral condyles is such, that the anterior part is an arc of a greater circle than the posterior; hence certain ligaments which are tightened during extension are relaxed during flexion, and thereby a con- siderable amount of rotatory movement is permitted in the flexed position. The axis of this rotation is vertical, and passes through the inner tubercle of the spine of the tibia, so that the outer tuberosity moves in the arc of a larger circle than does the inner, and is therefore required to move more freely and easily; hence the shape of the external articular facet and the loose connection of the external semilunar cartilage which is adapted to it. In extension, all the ligaments are on the stretch with the exception of the