LACHRYMAL APPARATUS 867 glands. The palpebral lymphatic vessels mainly pass through the preauricular gland; but, sometimes at least, those from the inner half of the lower lid go to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. Nerves.—(a) Sensory. The upper lid is chiefly supplied by branches of the supraorbital and supratrochlear nerves, the lower lid by one or two branches of the infraorbital. At the inner canthus the infratrochlear nerve also aids in the supply, and, at the outer canthus, the lachrymal, (b) Motor. The palpebral part of the orbicularis is supplied by branches of the facial nerve, which mainly enter it near the outer canthus. Midler's palpebral muscles are supplied by the sympa- thetic nervous system. The inner palpebral ligament, or tendo oculi, has been referred to previously. Arising from the frontal process of the maxilla, it extends outwards over the front wall of the lachrymal sac, bends round the outer wall of the sac, and then passes backwards to the posterior crest on the lachrymal bone. It is thus U-shaped, having its limbs anterior and posterior, embracing the lachrymal sac; the anterior limb lies immediately beneath the skin, and is visible in the living. The palpebral fibres of the orbicularis are inserted into the outer surface of both limbs, those attached to the posterior limb constituting Horner's muscle. The outer palpe- bral ligament is merely a stronger development of connective tissue in the orbicu- laris. Both ligaments are connected with the tarsi as already mentioned. The Lachrymal Apparatus The tears are secreted by an acinous gland, and flow through fine ducts to the upper outer part of the conjunctival sac, whence they are drained oft' through the pimcta, pass along the canaliculi into the lachrymal sac, and ultimately run down the nasal duct to gain the inferior meatus of the nose. The lachrymal gland is situated near the front of the outer part of the roof of the orbit, lying in a depression in the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It consists of two very unequal parts, one placed above and the other beneath the tendinous expansion of the levator palpebral superioris, but small gaps in the expansion permit of connections between these two parts of the gland. The upper and larger subdivision {superior lachrymal gland) is a firm elongated body, about the size of a small almond; it has a greyish-red colour, and is made up of closely aggregated lobules. The upper surface (next the orbital roof) is convex, and its lower surface is slightly concave. Anteriorly, the gland almost reaches the upper orbital mar- gin, and it extends backwards for approximately one-fourth the depth of the orbit, measuring about twelve millimetres in this direction. The outer border of the gland descends to near the insertion of the fascial expansion of the external rectus, while its inner border almost reaches the outer edge of the superior rectus; its transverse measurement is about twenty millimetres. It is enveloped in a capsule, which is slung by strong fibrous bands passing to its inner border from the orbital margin (suspensory ligament of the gland). The lower subdivision of the gland (inferior lachrymal gland) is composed of loosely applied lobules, and lies immediately over the outer third of the upper conjunctival fornix, reaching outwards as far as the external canthus. Each subdivision of the gland possesses several excretory ducts, which all open on the outer part of the upper fornix conjunctiva?, about four millimetres above the upper border of the tarsus. Those of the superior gland, three or four in number, pass between the lobules of the lower gland; the outermost duct is the largest, and opens at the level of the external canthus. The ducts of the inferior gland in part discharge themselves into those of the upper, but there are also several fine ducts from this subdivision that run an independent course. Near the inner canthus are the two puncta lachrymalia, upper and lower, each 1 situated at the summit of its papilla. The top of each papilla curves backwards i towards the conjunctival sac, so that the puncta are well adapted for their function | of draining off any fluid collecting there. The canaliculi lachrymales extend from the puncta to the lachrymal sac. j The lumen at the punctum is horizontally oval, from its lips being slightly com-