740 THE NERVOL'S SYSTEM continuity with them. The centre of the neuron is the body of the cell. The pro- cesses of the neuron form two sets, the protoplasmic, dendritic or afferent, and the axis-cylinder process, which is termed the axon or efferent process. The dendritic processes of the neurons of the brain and spinal cord are usually short, relatively numerous, and profusely branched, but the dendritic or afferent process of a spinal ganglion cell frequently runs a long distance before dividing into its terminal rami- fications. The terminal filaments of the dendrites may be associated either with the arborisations of the axons and dendrites of other cells or with specialised end organs. The axons may be short or long; those of the cord and brain terminate either in ramifications round other nerve-cells or in association with special end organs. The axons of the spinal ganglia enter the cord and divide into an ascending and a descending branch, both of which give off numerous collaterals, and they terminate in ramifications around other nerve-cells. The knowledge of the above facts, and the careful study of the degenerations resulting from the section of nerve-roots and the destruction of nerve-cells, com- bined with repeated observations on the phenomena observable during the development of the nerve-roots and the spinal cord, have led to the forma- tion of the following conclusions concerning the deep connections of the spinal nerve-roots. The anterior roots.—The majority of the fibres in the anterior nerve-roots are axons of the cells of the anterior cornua, but some of the smaller fibres are derived from the cells of the posterior cornua, and from the cells of Clarke's column and the intermedio-lateral tract, whilst others which pass to the roots from the white columns are believed to be processes of some of the nerve-cells of the cerebellum; therefore if the nerve-cells in the regions mentioned are destroyed, or if the anterior nerve-roots are divided beyond their exits from the cord, the nerve-fibres which form them degenerate to their peripheral terminations. The posterior roots.—The fibres of the posterior nerve-roots are processes of the cells in the posterior root ganglia. The fibres in each root external to the ganglion are the afferent or dendritic processes, and the fibres in the internal por- tion of the root are the axons or efferent processes, which pass into the cord; there- fore if the posterior nerve-root is divided external to the ganglion the peripheral portion undergoes degeneration, but if the division is made internal to the ganglion then the central part degenerates and the positions of its fibres in the substance of the cord become recognisable. Two groups of fibres are distinguishable in each posterior root as it enters the cord, an outer or lateral group of small fibres, and an inner group of large fibres intermixed with some small fibres. The fibres of the outer group enter the cord over the apex of the posterior cornu and turning upwards they form a small column called the marginal bundle or Lissauer's column (fig. 440a), in which they run for a short distance before entering the substantia gelatinosa Rolandi. The inner group passes into the outer part of the posterior column, and it is possible that some of its fibres terminate in Clarke's column, but the majority, if not all. divide into two branches, one of which passes upwards and the other downwards; both the main fibre and its two terminal branches give off numerous collateral branches which enter the grey matter and ramify round the cells of Clarke's column and the cells of the posterior and anterior cornua of the same side, and some pass through the grey commissure to the grey matter of the opposite side. The terminations of the descending branches of the posterior root-fibres are not definitely known, but they are believed to be in the grey matter of the lower segments of the cord. The ascending branches pass upwards to the medulla, gradually nearingthe postero-median septum as they ascend, and they terminate in arborisations round the cells of the nucleus gracilis and the nucleus cuneatus in the medulla oblongata. Tracts of the spinal cord.—The fibres which form the white columns of the spinal cord are the axons of nerve-eells of the cord, brain, or ganglia, which are passing upwards or downwards in the cord to terminate at a higher or lower level; the former are called ascending fibres, the latter descending, and the degenerations which occur in them are termed ascending and descending degenerations respec- tively. Both the ascending and descending fibres are grouped in tracts, but it must be