THE ARTERIES 47-2 In addition to the above variations, the arch of the aorta may be higher or lower in the thorax than normal. In the former case it may cross the first bone of the sternum, just below, or even a little above, the sternal notch, and reach the side of the second or third thoracic vertebra instead of the fourth. In the latter case, that is, when it is situated lower in the thorax than normal, it may cross the sternum below the level of the manubrium, aud come iuto contact with the spine on a level with the fifth or sixth thoracic vertebra. '2. The Chief Variations in the Three Primary Branches of the Transverse Portions of the Aortic Arch (1) All may arise from a common stem: a condition explained on the supposition that the anterior aortic roots have become fused, and have so collected all the brauches together. A similar condition is normal in the horse. This variation is rare. (2) They may arise as two stems : (a) One stem may be common to the right subclavian, right carotid, and left carotid, the other stem being the left subclavian. This is one of the com- monest variations in the arrangement of the primary branches. It is the normal condition in many mammals, and was formerly described as the normal condition in man. It is of some surgical interest, in that the left carotid when thus given ofF may cross in front of the trachea. (6) One stem may be common to the left subclavian, left carotid, and right carotid, the other stem being the right subclavian. In this variety the right carotid passes in front of the trachea, (c) There may be two innominate arteries, one stem forming the right, the other a left innominate artery as in birds. (J) One stem may be common to the right and left carotid arteries, the other stem being the left subclavian—the right subclavian in this case coming from the thoracic aorta. (3) They may arise as three stems: but, in place of being given off in the normal way, (a) the right and left subclavian may come off separately, and the carotids arise by a common stem between the subclavians. This is the normal condition in some cetaceans, (b) The right sub- clavian and right carotid may arise separately, the left carotid and left subclavian forming a left innominate stem, (c) The innominate may give off the left carotid, the left vertebral, and left subclavian, the other two vessels arising from the arch. (4) They may arise as four stems, which may be given off in the following order : (a) innominate, left carotid, left vertebral, left, subclavian (the commonest condition) : (b) right caro- tid, left carotid, left subclavian, right subclavian ; (c) right subclavian, right carotid, left carotid, left sultclavian—the normal condition in the walrus and wombat. (5) They may arise as five stems, the five branches being given off in the following order : (a) right subclavian, right carotid, left carotid, left vertebral, left subclavian ; (b) right carotid, left carotid, left vertebral, left subclavian, right subclavian ; (c) right carotid, left carotid, left subclavian, left vertebral, right subclavian ; (d) right subclavian, right external carotid, right internal carotid, left common carotid, left subclavian ; (e) innominate, right vertebral, left caro- tid, left vertebral, left, subclavian. (6) They may arise as six stems, given off as follows: right subclavian, right vertebral, right carotid, left carotid, left, vertebral, left subclavian. Branches of the Arch of the Aorta 1. The ascending portion gives off—(1) Right coronary; (2) left coronary. 2. The transverse portion °;ives off—(1) Innominate; (2) left common caro- tid; (3) left subclavian. 3. The descending portion gives off no branch. I. The branches of the first, or ascending, portion of the arch of the aorta are the right and left coronary for the supply of the tissues of the heart. They come off from the aorta, immediately above the aortic valves, from two of the dilatations known as the sinuses of Valsalva. THE RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY The right coronary artery (figs. 321 and 326) arises from the right anterior sinus of Valsalva, and, passing forwards and to the right between the right auricular appendix and the pulmonary artery, turns to the right, and courses in the right auriculo-ventricular groove to the back of the heart, where it follows the posterior interventricular groove to the apex of the ventricles, giving off, however, a small transverse branch, which continues in the groove between the left auricle and ven- tricle to anastomose with the terminal branch of the left coronary artery. In this course it gives off the following branches: (a) A right auricular branch (fig. 326), which turns backwards and upwards between the right auricle and the aorta,