48 THE SKELETON The blood-supply.—Arterial twigs derived from the middle and small menin- geal arteries enter it on the cerebral, and branches from the frontal and supraorbital arteries on the outer surface. The horizontal plate derives twigs from the ethmoidal and other branches of the ophthalmic artery. Ossification.—The frontal develops from two earthy spots deposited in the outer layer of the membranous wall of the cranium, in the situations ultimately known as the frontal eminences. These nuclei appear about the eighth week, and quickly spread through the membrane. At birth the bones are quite distinct. Subsequently they articulate with each other in the median line to form the metopic suture. In a few cases, the bones remain distinct throughout life. In the majority of cases the suture is obliterated; ankylosis commences about the second Fig. 58.—The Frontal Bone at Birth. year. In adult skulls, traces of the metopic suture may often be seen in the region of the glabella. After the two halves of the bone have united, osseous material is deposited at the lower end of the metopic suture to form the nasal spine, which is one of the distinguishing features of the human frontal bone. The spine appears about the twelfth year, and soon consolidates with the bone above. Accessory nuclei are sometimes seen between this bone and the lachrymal; they may persist as Wormian ossicles. The frontal sinuses appear about the seventh year as prolongations from the anterior ethmoidal cells. Occasionally they invade the horizontal plate, and extend over the roof of the orbit. THE EPIPTERIC AND WORMIAN BONES The epipterics are bones of variable size which occupy the anterior fontanelles, regions indicated in the adult skull by the name pterion. Each epipteric bone is wedged between the squamosal, frontal, greater wing of sphenoid, and the parietal, and is present in most skulls between the second and fifteenth year. After that date it may persist as a separate ossicle, or unite with the frontal or the squamosal. In this case it will cause a fronto-squamosal suture, and exclude the parietal from the sphenoid. More commonly the epipteric joins the sphenoid. In some skulls it is scarcely as large as a split pea, in others it is as broad as the thumb-nail. The epipteric bone is pre-formed in membrane, and appears in the course of the first year. The Wormian bones are small, irregular-shaped ossicles, often found in the sutures of the skull, especially those in relation with the parietal bones. Wormian bones sometimes occur in great number; as many as a hundred have been counted in one skull. They are rarely present in the facial sutures.