1208 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY vertical plane from the middle of Poupart's ligament be preferred to that here adopted, the name of ' iliac' region must replace that of ' inguinal,' and the two inguinal canals would be transferred to the hypogastric region. The choice of the intertuberculous plane in place of the interspinous plane affects the table chiefly in bringing the lower part of the ascending colon into the right ' iliac' region. The subjoined diagram shows the two principal schemes, and the table offers a summary of the visceral contents: The Abdominal Viscera regionally arranged. Right Hypochondriac Liver: portion of right lobe (gall bladder usually cut by longitudiual line). Kidney: upper and outer part. Colon : hepatic flexure and part of ascending colon. Middle Epigastric Liver: quadrate, caudate, Spigelian, and greater part of left lobes (gall bladder usually cut by longitudinal line). Pancreas : head and body. Spleen,: upper and inner part. Kidneys: upper and inner part of each, with pelves. Suprarenal bodies. Stomach: middle and pyloric regions, cardiac and pyloric orifices. Duodenum: first and second portions and termination of third portion. Small intestine: transverse colon, variable portion. -Upper horizontal plane at level of lowest point of costal border- Left Hypochon d riac Liver : portion of left lobe. Spleen: lower and outer part. Pancreas: tail. Kidney: upper and outer part. Stomach: great cul-de-sac- Colon : splenic flexure. Lumbar Kidney: lower and outer part. Ascending colon. Ctfciim: portion or whole. Small intestine: chiefly ileum. Umbilical Kidneys: lower and inner por- tion of each, with ureters. Duoden um: lower flexure and part of third portion. Jejunum and ileum. Transverse colon: portion. Sigmoid flexure and com- mencement of rectum. Lumbar Kidney: lower and outer part. Small intestine: chiefly jeju- num. Descending colon and portion of sigmoid flexure. -Lower horizontal plane at level of anterior superior iliac spines carried into truepelvis- Inguinal Small intestine. Caecum: lower portion, occa- sionally. Inguinal canal. Hypogastric Small intestine. Sigmoid flexure and rectum (portion). Caecum: lower portion, occa- sionally. Ureters. Bladder: in children, and distended bladder in adults. Fundus uteri and append- ages. Inguinal Small intestine. Sigmoid flexure: portion. Inguinal canal.