614 THE VEINS oris muscle of the upper lip, and passes with the superior coronary artery outwards, and joins the facial vein a little below the level of the ala of the nose. (c) The inferior labial veins.—A small branch (inferior coronary) usually opens into the facial a little below the superior labial vein; but the chief branch from the lower lip descends as a rule over the chin to the submental vein, and thus only opens indirectly into the facial vein. It may open into the anterior jugular vein. (d) The submental vein lies on the mylo-hyoid muscle superficial to the sub- mental artery. It begins below the chin, and, running backwards in the digastric triangle, joins the facial vein just after the latter has passed over the body of the lower jaw. It receives branches from the inferior labial plexus and the neighbour- ing muscles, and communicates with the anterior jugular vein. (e) The submaxillary or glandular veins open into the facial as it crosses the submaxillary gland. But some branches from the gland often open into the submental vein. Tributaries on the Outer Side.—(a) The inferior palpebral veins.—Several branches pass downwards to the facial vein; others, as before stated, pass inwards to the angular vein (page 613). Through one or more of these branches a communication is formed with the infraorbital vein. (6) The anterior internal maxillary vein, sometimes known as the deep facial, passes downwards and forwards from the pterygoid plexus of veins between the buccinator and masseter muscles, and opens into the outer side of the facial vein under cover of the zygomaticus major muscle. (c) The buccal vein is a small branch from the buccinator muscle. (d) The anterior parotid branch descends from the glandula socia parotidis forwards to the facial. (e) The masseteric is a small branch from the masseter muscle. (/) The inferior or descending palatine vein accompanies the ascending palatine or tonsillar artery from the venous plexus about the tonsil and soft palate, and joins the facial vein just below the body of the lower jaw. The communicating branch between the external jugular and facial veins— sometimes known as the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein—runs obliquely downwards and inwards from the external jugular vein from near the spot where the latter is continuous with the temporo-maxillary trunk. It joins the facial vein deeply just behind the angle of the jaw. The chief variations in the facial vein are :—(1) It may run over the sterno-mastoid and open into the external jugular vein ; (2) it may open into the anterior jugular vein ; (3) it may run beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoid muscles; (4) it may receive the lingual vein, the pharyngeal vein, or both of these veins. The Posterior Superficial Vein of the Scalp The posterior vein descends over the occipital bone, and then deeply amongst the muscles at the back of the neck. It ends in the innominate vein. The first or superficial portion of this trunk is known as the occipital vein ; the second or deeper portion as the deep cervical vein (fig. 385). The occipital vein begins at the back of the skull in a venous plexus which anastomoses with the posterior auricular and posterior branch of the superficial temporal veins. It passes downwards over the occipital bone, and, perforating the trapezius with the occipital artery, sinks deeply into the suboccipital triangle, where it terminates in the deep cervical vein. At times it takes a more superficial course, and, joining the posterior auricular, passes with this into the external jugular vein. One of its branches—usually the outermost—receives an emissary vein issuing through the mastoid foramen of the temporal bone, and in this way forms a communication with the lateral sinus. The deep cervical vein begins as a plexus of small veins in the suboccipital triangle. After receiving, as a rule, the occipital vein, it passes downwards between the complexus and the semispinals colli, in company, first with the princeps cervicis branch of the occipital artery, and afterwards with the deep cervical branch of the