432 THE MUSCLES 3. RETRAHENS AUREM The retrahens aurem—named from its action of drawing back the auricle— consists of two muscular bands, which narrow slightly as they pass forwards to the ear. Origin.—The upper part of the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Insertion.—The inner surface of the concha. Structure.—It consists usually of darker and more distinctly fleshy bands than the two preceding muscles. They arise, one above the other, by short tendi- nous fibres from the mastoid process, and pass transversely forwards to their tendi- nous insertion. Nerve-supply.—The posterior auricular branch of the facial, which sends filaments to the lower part of its deep surface. Action.—To draw back the auricle. Relations.—Superficially, the skin; deeply, the posterior auricular artery, part' of the great auricular and the posterior auricular nerves. THE MUSCLES OF THE NOSE The chief muscles of the nose are three in number: viz. the pyramidalis nasi and compressor narium, which consist of muscular fibres which pass upwards and outwards from an aponeurosis, covering the cartilaginous part of the ridge of the nose, and intimately connected with the under surface of the skin; and the depressor alae nasi. A small slip from the levator labii superioris ala?que nasi is also attached to the ala nasi; and two little muscles may sometimes be found in the subcutaneous tissue upon the outer surface of the nostril: viz. the dilatator naris anterior and posterior. 1. PYRAMIDALIS The pyramidalis (figs. 309 and 311)—named from its triangular shape, which is like the side of a pyramid—is a thin sheet. Origin.—The upper border of the nasal aponeurosis over the junction of the cartilage with the lower border of the nasal bone. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin between the eyebrows, being at this point continuous with the inner fibres of the frontalis. Structure.—The muscular fibres form a slightly curved sheet, which wraps round the anterior surface of the nasal bone, and is continuous with the correspond- ing muscle of the other side. They converge as they pass upwards, and the outer ones run slightly inwards as well as upwards, to their insertion. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial, which enters the outer part of its deep surface. Action.—To draw downwards the skin between the eyebrows, so as to throw it forwards into a fold, and at the same time to produce a transverse groove above the bridge of the nose. This gives to the face a stern, aggressive, or fierce expression. Relations.—Superficially, the skin; and deeply, the nasal bone. Variation.—This muscle is sometimes absent. 2. COMPRESSOR NARIUM The compressor narium (figs. 309 and 311)—named from its supposed action as a compressor of the nostrils—is a triangular sheet, the base of which is attached to the nasal aponeurosis above mentioned.