827 CER VIC A L GANGLIA each pair of spinal nerves. We find, however, owing to the cohesion of certain ganglia, particularly in the cervical region, that the number is reduced to from twenty to twenty-three pairs. In the thoracic region the arrangement is the most typical, twelve pairs of ganglia corresponding to the twelve thoracic nerves being frequently present. In the thoracic region, also, the arrangement of the rami communicantes is most easily studied. Each thoracic ganglion is connected with the anterior primary division of the corresponding spinal nerve by two rami communicantes (fig. 470a), a white and a grey. The white ramus consists of small medullated fibres which leave the spinal cord by the anterior nerve root and pass to the ganglion. Some of the fibres of the white ramus pass through the ganglion and leave the chain directly, or more generally after running upwards or downwards for some distance within it, by the rami efferentes (fig. 470a). The rami efferentes pass to the prevertebral plexuses where they may end in arborizations round the cells of the ganglia, or passing through these ganglionic plexuses they end round the cells of the terminal ganglia, which are situated either close to or within the walls of the vessels and organs. Other fibres of the white rami afferentes terminate round the cells of the vertebral ganglia (ganglia of the chain). From the cells of the various ganglia, vertebral, prevertebral, and terminal, non-medullated fibres arise which end in the walls of the viscera, vessels, and glands. Many of the non-medullated fibres which issue from the thoracic vertebral ganglia form the grey rami (fig. 470a). They pass to the spinal nerves. Some of them turn inwards along the posterior nerve roots to the membranes of the spinal cord and the walls of the spinal canal; others travel peripherally, with the branches of the nerve; the}' terminate in the blood vessels, hair muscles, and skin glands. The remaining non-medullated fibres, which issue from the vertebral ganglia, leave in the rami efferentes and pass through the prevertebral plexuses to their termina- tions (fig. 470a). In addition to the fibres above mentioned, it is possible that there are also afferent (sensory) fibres passing from the viscera, glands, and vessels through the sympathetic ganglia to the posterior nerve roots and thence to the spinal cord. Cranial portion of the sympathetic.—The small sporadic ganglia (ophthalmic, sphenopala- tine, otic, and submaxillary), which have already been described in connection with the tri- geminal nerve, are regarded by some anatomists as representing a cranial portion of the gangliated cord, and sympathetic fibres are undoubtedly given off from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. CERVICAL PORTION OF THE GANGLIATED CORD The cervical portion of the gangliated cord consists of three ganglia united by intervening nerve-cords. Of these tbe superior cervical ganglion is the largest, and probably represents four coalesced ganglia; the middle cervical ganglion is the smallest, and represents two ganglia; the inferior, intermediate in size, is probably formed by the union of two ganglia. The cord takes a vertical course down the neck, and is in contact posteriorly with the prevertebral layer of the cervical fascia. Behind this fascia it corresponds to the rectus capitis anticus major above, and the longus colli below. These muscles and the prevertebral fascia intervene between the cord and the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. The internal carotid above, and the common carotid artery below, are placed in front of the gangliated cord, and the pnenmogastric nerve is external to it. Superior Cervical Ganglion The superior cervical ganglion is a fusiform body, about one inch to an inch and a half in length (2.5 to 3.75 cm.). It corresponds to the transverse processes of the second and third (and sometimes the first) cervical vertebrae. Above, it is continued into a stout trunk which is called the ascending branch. Below, it ends in a cord which passes downwards to join the middle cervical ganglion. It is con- nected to the anterior primary divisions of the four upper cervical nerves by as