THE SKIN 1076 grades leading to complete keratinisation, their career is ended and they are cast off from the stratum corneum. No vessels exist in any part of the epiderm, but nerve-fibrils are said to penetrate as far as the stratum Malpighii. In the more recent methods of skin-grafting the surgeon takes a plane which usually includes all the layers of the epidermis, and even the extreme tips of the papilla? of the derm (as shown by the minute bleeding points left on the surface from which the graft has been cut). The absence of the deeper and more highly vitalised epidermic cells in the pellicle separated by a blister is probably responsible for the almost uniform failure of transplantation of this material. VESSELS OF THE SKIN The arteries of the skin form a network in the subcutaneous tissue, and from this arise branches which pass outwards into the derm, and, after supplying twigs to the glands and hair-bulbs, unite into a second network beneath the papilla?, supplying these latter with fine arterioles, which finally break up into a capillary plexus. The veins commencing within the papilla? form a subpapillary network which ends in the subcutaneous veins. The lymphatics have a like arrangement. Nerves.—The skin is richly supplied with nerves, but in varying degrees in different regions. Everywhere the nerves form plexuses in the derm, the network becoming finer as it approaches the epiderm, forming a rich subepithelial network immediately beneath the stratum basilare. From this, delicate fibrils have been traced outwards as far as the stratum Malpighii, where they terminate. The integu- mentary nerves end in three different ways—some in subcutaneous bodies, the cor- puscles of Pacini or Vater; others in dermic structures, the corpuscles of Meissner and Krause; and a third, or epidermic set, are believed to terminate in minute bulbs. The corpuscles of Pacini may be found attached, like berries, to the nerve- stems lying in the subcutaneous tissue in various parts of the surface, but most abundantly on the digital nerves. They are not confined to the cutaneous nerves, but are seen also upon mixed nerves, such as the intercostal; upon articular, peri- osteal, and other nerves; and even on sympathetic filaments, such as those of the mesentery. They are of oval form, and range in size from to \ of an inch (1 to 5 mm.). Structurally, they consist of a connective-tissue envelope derived from the perineurium and a series of thirty to sixty concentric fibrous tunics each, lined on both sides by endothelium; within is a central structureless core. The nerve-fibre pierces one of the poles of the corpuscle and reaches the central core, where it loses its myelin and subdivides into delicate ramifications, which end in small bulbous enlargements. Each body is supplied by a set of vessels that form plexuses and loops in the layers of the capsule. The tactile corpuscles of Meissner are of smaller size and more limited dis- tribution than the Pacinian bodies. They belong almost entirely to the hands and feet, but may be found also over the radial side of the forearm, in the mammilla and the red border of the lips, as well as in the free border of the conjunctiva and in the mucous membrane of the tip of the tongue. They are particularly numerous over the pulp of the terminal phalanges, where the sense of touch is most acute. They lie within certain of the papilla?, which they occupy to the exclusion of ves- sels, and appear as solid, olive-shaped bodies about ^ of an inch in length (of a mm.) placed with their long axes at right angles to the surface. Each is joined at its deeper extremity by one, two, or more nerves. In structure the corpuscle consists of a connective-tissue capsule, like that of the Pacinian body, derived from the perineurium; within this is a solid cellular structure, in which the nerve cylin- der, deprived of its myelin, breaks up into filaments, to end either in bulbous or discoid enlargements. The spheroidal end-bulbs of Krause, found in the conjunctiva and mucous membrane, and in a modified form in the prepuce and glans penis and clitoridis, bear some resemblance to the tactile corpuscles and to the central core of the Paci- nian bodies. They consist of a connective-tissue capsule enclosing a cellular structure in which the nerve terminates.