639 SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF UPPER EXTREMITY triangular ligament. Before passing through the triangular ligament, it communi- cates on each side with the primary radicals of the pudic vein. After dividing into a right and a left branch within the pelvis, each vessel generally communicates with the obturator vein by a branch passing over the back of the pubes to the obturator foramen. The prostatico-vesical plexus surrounds the prostate and the neck and lower fundus of the bladder. It receives in front the right and left divisions of the dorsal vein of the penis, and communicates posteriorly with the ha?morrhoidal plexus. The prostatic veins and the vesical plexus open into it. The veins forming the plexus are of large size, especially in old men, in whom they often become varicose, and contain phleboliths, or vein-stones. The plexus is surrounded by a kind of capsule formed by the recto-vesical process of the pelvic fascia. It terminates in a single stem on each side which opens into the internal iliac vein. The vesical plexus surrounds the upper fundus, the sides, and the anterior and posterior surfaces of the bladder. It is situated between the muscular coat and the peritoneum, and where the bladder is uncovered by peritoneum external to the muscular coat in the pelvic cellular tissue. It opens into the prostatico-vesical plexus. The haemorrhoidal plexus of veins surrounds the rectum, and is situated at the lower part of that tube between the muscular and mucous coats. The veins of this plexus terminate in the inferior, middle, and superior haemorrhoidal veins. The inferior join the pudic; the middle accompany the middle haemorrhoidal arteries, and open into the internal iliac and superior hemorrhoidal veins; the superior form the commencement of the inferior mesenteric vein, and through this the blood gains the portal vein. None of these veins have any valves, hence \\e enlargement of the inferior hemorrhoidal veins, a condition known as piles, when the portal vein is obstructed, as from compression of its capillaries in cirrhosis of the liver. Through the hemorrhoidal veins a free communication is established between the systemic and portal system of veins. 5. THE VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The veins of the upper limb consist of two sets—a superficial and a deep. The superficial veins ramify in the subcutaneous tissue above the deep fascia; the deep accompany the arteries, and have practically the same relations as those vessels. The superficial and deep veins communicate at frequent intervals through the intermuscular veins which run between the muscles and perforate the deep fascia. Both sets of veins are provided with valves, but the valves are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial. There is usually a valve where the deep veins join the superficial. The superficial veins are larger than the deep, and take the greater share in returning the blood. I. THE SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The superficial veins begin in two irregular venous plexuses: one situated on the back of the hand, and the other on the front of the wrist. From the radial side of the dorsal plexus, a single vein, the superficial radial, runs up the forearm as far as the elbow. From the ulnar side of the plexus, two veins course up the inner side of the forearm—the anterior and posterior superficial ulnar veins— and, joining together a little below the bend of the elbow, form a single superficial ulnar vein. From the anterior plexus a vein runs up the middle of the front of the forearm—the superficial median vein—and, after receiving a branch from the deep veins at the bend of the elbow (the deep median), divides into an outer