THE MUSCLES 450 Action.—(1) The posterior belly draw? upwards and backwards the hyoid bone, as in the elevation of the larynx in the second part of deglutition; (2) the anterior belly, acting from above, draws upwards and forwards the hyoid bone; and, acting in the opposite direction, (3) it assists in the depression of the lower jaw and in opening the mouth. Although a comparatively weak muscle, it acts with considerable power in this movement, for it is inserted at the end of the lever of the second order formed by the mandible, while the resistance which it has to overcome is exerted by muscles acting much nearer to the fulcrum. Moreover, its direction downwards and backwards is at a considerable angle with the line of the lever, viz. that which joins the prominence of the chin to a point a little above the inferior dental foramen. (4) If the mandible be fixed and both bellies act, the hyoid bone will be drawn directly upwards. By this action the muscle is of great importance in the elevation of the tongue, which rests upon the upper surface of the hyoid bone. It will therefore help in the first part of deglutition, in which the back of the tongue is pressed against the hard palate. Relations.—The posterior belly lies beneath the mastoid process, the sterno- mastoid, splenitis, and traehelo-mastoid muscles, the facial vein, and the parotid gland; in front lies the stylo-hyoid muscle; deeply, the middle constrictor of the pharynx, the hyo-glossus, the external and internal carotid arteries, and some of the branches of the external carotid, the internal jugular vein, the hypoglossal and superior laryngeal nerves. The tendon lies beneath the deep cervical fascia, platysma myoides, and part of the stylo-hyoid muscle. Above is the submaxillary gland. On its deep surface is the rest of the stylo-hyoid muscle, the mylo-hyoid, the hyo-glossus, and the hypo- glossal nerve. The anterior belly is covered by the deep cervical fascia and platysma myoides, and it lies upon the mylo-hyoid muscle. Variations.—A second posterior belly may arise in front of the angle of the mandible; slips may also arise from the styloid process, or the pharynx. The anterior belly may be absent; it may be partly or entirely united with that of the opposite side, or may send a slip to the median raphe ot the mylo-hyoid. 2. STYLO-HYOID The stylo-hyoid—named from its attachments—is a slender fusiform muscle with a bifurcated lower extremity. Origin.—The back and outer surface of the styloid process of the temporal bone near its base. Insertion.—The lower border of the body of the hyoid bone at the point of union with the great cornu. Structure.—Arising by a short tendon, its fibres soon become fleshy and pass downwards and forwards. Just before its insertion they divide into two bundles, which form an obliquely directed arch bridging over the tendon of the digastric muscle. Nerve-supply.—A special branch of the facial nerve, which enters its deep surface from behind. Action.—The same as that of the posterior belly of the digastric, viz. to draw the hyoid bone backwards and upwards. Relations.—Superficially, the parotid gland and deep cervical fascia; in front, the submaxillary gland; behind, the posterior belly of the digastric; deeply, the middle constrictor and hyo-glossus and the external carotid artery. Variations.—The stylo-hyoid may arise in part from the cartilage of the external auditory meatus. It may be absent, or its insertion may be undivided, in which case it may pass to the inner or outer side of the digastric tendon. A second stylo-hyoid may run beneath the hyo-glossus to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. 3. MYLO-HYOID The mylo-hyoid—named from its attachment to the lower jaw = a mill and the jaw) and to the hyoid bone—is a triangular and somewhat curved sheet.