LYMPHATICS OF LOWER EXTREMITY 667 THE LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The lymphatics of the lower extremity, like those of the upper, may be divided into the superficial and the deep. The former run in the subcutaneous tissue with the superficial veins, the latter along the course of the deep arteries. At the groin the superficial end in the deep, which then pass under Poupart's ligament into the abdomen. I. THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The superficial lymphatic vessels follow in chief part the long and short saphenous veins. Passing from the toes to a plexus on the dorsum and sole of the foot respectively, they thence run up the leg, forming two chief sets of lymphatic vessels, an inner and an outer. The inner and larger accompanies the long saphenous vein in front of the ankle, behind the inner side of the knee, and then up the inner and front part of the thigh to the inguinal glands. The outer set, beginning on the outer side of the foot, run up the outer side of the leg, some passing round the front of the tibia to end in the inner set below the knee; others passing over the popliteal space to join the inner set higher in the limb; and others, again, perforating the deep fascia along with the short saphenous vein to end in the popliteal glands. The lymphatics of the gluteal region wind, in part round the inner side of the thigh, over the upper portion of the adductors, to join the innermost inguinal glands; and in part over the crest of the ilium to join the outermost inguinal glands. On this account it is not uncommon to find that an abrasion caused by wearing an ill-fitting truss results in an abscess in the inguinal region. The superficial lymphatic glands.—There are no superficial glands below the inguinal. The inguinal glands, six to twelve in number, are situated in the inguinal region. They may be subdivided into the oblique, or inguinal proper, which are grouped along the course of Poupart's ligament; and the vertical, or femoral, or saphenous, which surround the saphenous opening. The oblique or inguinal glands proper, which are situated on a higher level than the vertical set, receive the lymphatics from the integuments of the penis and scrotum, and the skin of the pudenda and lower part of the vagina in the female. They also receive the lymphatics from the integuments of the lower part of the abdomen, and that covering the perinseal and gluteal regions. Their efferent vessels in part pass through the saphenous opening, and in part perforate the deep fascia to end in the deep inguinal and, to some extent, in the lumbar glands. It is these superficial inguinal glands which become enlarged in venereal disease, in chancres and epithelioma of the penis and scrotum, or labia in the female, and in boils or other sources of irritation about the anus, gluteal region, and perinseum. The vertical set, or saphenous or superficial femoral glands, receive the superficial lymphatics from the lower limb. They are found enlarged in sores on the heel, malignant disease of the skin, etc. II. THE DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The deep lymphatic vessels of the lower limb follow the course of the deep arteries and veins. Thus they accompany the internal and external plantar arteries in the sole, and the dorsalis pedis artery on the dorsum of the foot. In the leg they are found following the posterior tibial, anterior tibial, and peroneal arteries, and, after passing through the lymphatic glands in the popliteal space, accompany,