1203 ARCHES OF THE FOOT arches in the following important particulars (Humphry): (a) in not being wedge-shaped; (6) in not being so placed as to support and receive support from the two halves of the arch: in front the astragalus does fulfil this condition by fitting into the scaphoid; behind, it overlaps the calcaneum without at all support- ing it; (c) this arch and the support of its keystone largely depend on ligaments and tendons; (d) it is a mobile keystone: to give.it chances of shifting its pressure, and so obtaining rest, its equilibrium is not always maintained in one position. (B) Transverse arch (fig. 763).—This is best marked about the centre of the foot, at the instep, along the tarso-metatarsal joints. This, as well as the longitu- dinal arch, yields in walking, and so gives elasticity and spring. Uses of the arches.—(1) They give combined elasticity and strength to the tread. Thus they give firmness, free quickness, and dignity, both in standing and walking, instead of what we see in their absence, viz. the lameness of an artificial limb, and the shuffling or hobbling which goes with tight boots, deformed toes, flat-foot, bunions, corns, etc.; (2) they protect the plantar vessels, nerves, and muscles; (3) they add to man's height; (4) they make his gait a perfect combina- Fig. 768.—This shows the Effect of Muscular Action in throwing up the Aech. tion of plantigrade and digitigrade, as is seen in man's walking, when he uses first the heel, then all the foot, and then the toes (Humphry). Maintenance of the arch.—(1) Plantar fascia.—This is (a) a binding tie between the pillars of the longitudinal arch; (b) it protects the structures beneath; (c) it is a self-regulating ligament and protection. Thus, having a quantity of muscular tissue attached to its upper and back part, it constantly responds by the contraction of this, to the amount of any pressure made upon the foot. (2) Calcaneo-scaphoid ligament.—This is a thick plate of fibrous tissue, partly elastic, attached to the under surface of the calcaneum, sustentaculum tali, and scaphoid. It is thickest at its inner side, where it blends with the anterior part of the deltoid ligament, and where the tibialis posticus passes into the sole, giving much support to the head of the astragalus, and assisting the power and spring of this ligament (vide infra). (3) Calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, (a) Long; (b) short.—These ligaments are the main support of the outer, firm, and less elastic part of the longitudinal arch. (4) Tibialis posticus.—The reason of this muscle having so many insertions below is to brace together the tarsal bones, and to prevent Tibialis posticus Flexor longus hallucis