364 THE MUSCLES 2. SEMI-TENDINOSUS The semi-tendinosus (fig. 288)—named from the long tendon which forms the lower half of the muscle—is fusiform and somewhat flattened. Origin.—By a tendon which is common to it and the preceding muscle, from the lower and inner of the facets at the back of the tuber ischii. Insertion.—(1) The upper part of the inner surface of the tibia below and behind the insertion of the gracilis; (2) the deep fascia of the inner side of the leg. Structure.—The rounded and somewhat flattened tendon of about two inches (5 cm.) in length is succeeded by a fusiform mass of muscular fibres, which end just below the middle of the thigh in a flattened cylindrical tendon. This runs directly downwards along the inner side of the popliteal space, where it can easily be felt beneath the skin, behind and external to the tendon of the gracilis, in com- pany with which it passes downwards and forwards behind the internal condyle to its insertion below the inner tuberosity. From the lower border of the flattened tendon an aponeurosis passes downwards to the deep fascia of the leg. The fleshy part of the muscle is crossed about its middle by a thin tendinous intersection running downwards and outwards. Nerve-supply.—From the first, second, and third nerves of the sacral plexus by means of branches from the great sciatic nerve which enter the outer part of the deep surface of the muscle two or three inches (about 6 cm.) below the tuber ischii. Action.—To extend the hip and flex the knee, and when the knee is flexed to rotate the leg inwards. Acting from below, it lifts up the body from the stooping position. Relations.—Behind, the gluteus maximus and fascia lata; on its outer side the biceps; in front, the semi-membranosus, adductor magnus, and near the knee the gracilis, sartorius, and the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The large bursa beneath the sartorius tendon also wraps round the lower part of the tendon of the semi-tendinosus, and separates it from the internal lateral ligament of the knee- joint, 3. SEMI-MEMBRANOSUS The semi-membranosus (fig. 288)—named from the broad membrane-like aponeurosis which forms the upper third of the muscle—is strong, flattened, and fusiform. Origin.—The anterior and upper of the facets upon the back of the tuber ischii. Insertion.—(1) The lower part of the posterior extremity of the groove upon the back and inner side of the inner tuberosity of the tibia; (2) by a band of fibres which \mss upwards and outwards to the upper and back part of the external condyle of the femur, and blend with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; (3) by a broad expansion which, passing dowmvards and outwards from its insertion into the inner tuberosity to the oblique line at the back of the tibia, forms the aponeurosis which invests the posterior surface of the popliteus; (4) a few fibres pass downwards and forwards from the lower border of its tibial insertion to blend with the internal lateral ligament. Structure.—The upper part of the muscle consists of a strong flat tendon about three-quarters of an inch (nearly 2 cm.) broad, which extends alonff the outer border of the muscle to the middle of the thigh. The tendon of insertion is not quite so broad but much thicker, and reaches upon the inner border of the muscle also as high as the middle of the thigh. Between these two tendons the muscular fibres which are comparatively short pass downwards and inwards, beginning upon the upper tendon about four inches (10 cm.) below the tuber ischii, and ending upon the lower tendon close to the upper part of the inner condyle. The muscle has therefore a very distinctly penniform arrangement, but it is peculiar in this respect that the fleshy fibres are at each extremity attached to a tendon, and are not, as is usually the case, at one extremity attached to the bone. It is also unusual for a muscle to have so long a tendon at its proximal end. One effect of