CHOROID PLEXUSES To.", The under surface of the velum interpositum rests on the inner parts of the optic thalami, and between the latter it is placed directly over the third ventricle, where it is covered by a layer of epithelium continuous with the lining of that cavity, but discontinuous with the epithelium of the lateral ventricles, except at the foramina of Monro. The choroid plexuses extend from the extremity of the descending cornu of each side to the foramen of Monro where they become continuous with one another through the foramen commune anterius. From the junction of the two plexuses a pair of small vascular fringes pass backwards on the under surface of the velum interpositum in the middle line, and depend into the cavity of the third ventricle, Fig. 420.— Horizontal Section of the Ceeebeal Hemispheres. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) (The fornix has been reflected to show the velum interpositum.) ANTERIi iR PILL A Ri OF FOR. CORPUS CALLOSUM (in section) SEPTUM LUCID UM FIFTH VENTRICLE TMNIA SEMI- CIRCULARIS OPTIC THALAMUS Velum interpositum Choroid plexus FIMBRIA HIPPOCAM- PUS MAJOR EMINENTIA COLLA TER- ALIS HIPPO- CAMPUS MINOR constituting the choroid plexuses of that cavity (fig. 414). The anterior choroid artery enters the choroid plexus at the termination of the descending cornu; other smaller arteries are supplied to the plexus from behind, and are derived from the posterior cerebral artery. Dissection.—The student should divide the splenium of the corpus callosum in the middle line, and remove the portions of the hemispheres which lie posterior to the great transverse fissure ; they will readily separate at the fissure, and break off at the extremities of the temporal lobes. This operation should be conducted with gentleness, as the walls of the third ventricle are very prone to become unduly divaricated by this dissection. The part removed should be re-examined, as the relations between the fissures and hippocampi can be studied to great advantage at this stage. The cavity of the third ventricle may now be displayed by raising the