955 THE PERITONEUM until it reaches the descending colon. This it covers, as a rule, in front and on the sides, though occasionally, as shown in the diagram (fig. 561), it forms a meso-colon. Then it passes over the bodies of the vertebra? with the large vessels upon them, and leaves the back of the abdomen to run forward to enclose the termination of the small intestine, returning again to the spine. The two layers thus form the mesentery, having between them the terminal branches of the supe- rior mesenteric vessels. It then passes over the right half of the posterior abdom- inal wall, covering the ascending colon in front, and at the sides only, unless there be a meso-colon, and then passes on to the side and front of the abdomen to the point from which it was first traced. In tracing the peritoneum in a section of the body (fig. 562) opposite the stomach, on a level with the first lumbar vertebra, its course becomes more com- plicated and difficult to follow. In the section already given the peritoneum as a simple closed sac can be readily conceived; but at the level now exposed the serous membrane has been so introverted that there appears to be two sacs, one leading from the other. The lesser is indeed but a diverticulum or bulging from the greater, and the manner of its formation is explained on page 1002. These two sacs are called the greater and the lesser sacs of the peritoneum. They communicate through a narrow strait or neck, the foramen of Winslow. The lesser sac or cavity is discovered Fig. 562.—Transverse Section of the Abdomen at the Level of the Foramen of Winslow. gastro-hepatic omentum GASTRO-SPLENIC OMENTUM behind the stomach, so that on first opening the abdomen no trace of it is to be seen. It extends downwards between the layers of the great omentum (though this part of the lesser sac is always obliterated by adhesion in the adult). It extends upwards to the under surface of the liver, and is limited behind by the posterior abdominal wall; and below, behind the great omentum, by the transverse meso- colon. Its disposition on vertical section is shown in fig. 563. The foramen of Winslow is situated just below the liver; it looks forwards and towards the right, and will readily admit one or two fingers. It is bounded above by the caudate lobe of the liver; below, by the duodenum and hepatic vessels; behind, by the vena cava; and in front by the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, containing the structures passing to and from the liver. Starting at the foramen of Winslow, the lesser sac will be found to turn to the left. If now the peritoneum be viewed in a transverse section of the body at the level named, viz., through the first lumbar vertebra, it will be found that the sec- tion has probably passed through the foramen of Winslow (fig. 562). Starting at the front of the abdomen and going to the right, the peritoneum is seen to line the anterior abdominal wall, to pass over the side of the abdomen, and to cover the front of the right kidney; it then extends on to the vena cava, when it becomes a part of the lesser sac; then along the back of the lesser sac, over the aorta and pan-