296 THE MUSCLES elevated and fixed, this muscle will draw the front of the chest up to it, as in climbing. It will also raise the upper ribs in forced inspiration. Relations.—Superficially, the platysma myoides, the mammary gland, and the cutaneous nerves from the descending branches of the cervical plexus, as well as the lateral and anterior perforating branches of the upper intercostals. Beneath, lie the subclavius, pectoralis minor, and serratus magnus, the fascia covering the external and internal intercostal muscles, the coracoid process, and costo-coracoid membrane, with the structures which pass through the membrane, viz. the cephalic vein, acromio-thoracic vessels, and the external anterior thoracic nerve. Further outwards it forms part of the anterior wall of the axilla, and enters into relation with the biceps, the coraco-brachialis, and the axillary vessels and nerves. The upper border is separated from the deltoid by the cephalic vein and the humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery. Variations.—The clavicular and sterno-costal portions are often widely separated. They may also be further subdivided into separate bauds or sheets, and they may be wholly or partly absent. Occasionally, the muscles of the two sides join across the sternum, or muscular bands may join the sternal ends of the clavicle. Bands may cross from the axillary border to the latis- siiuus dorsi or the deep fascia of the upper arm ; deeper bands may also pass to the insertion of the pectoralis minor, or the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Second Layer 1. SUBCLAVIUS The subclavius—named from its position beneath the clavicle (= clavis)—is almost cylindrical, but may be more accurately described as a thick sheet of the shape of a low obtuse-angled triangle, the obtuse angle being contained between the clavicular attachment and the inner free border of the muscle. Fig. 265.—The Subclavius and the Upper Portion of the Serratus Magnus. Subclavius Serratus maguus Origin.—The upper and anterior surface of the first rib and its cartilage at their point of junction. Insertion.—The groove on the lower surface of the clavicle from the rhomboid impression to the conoid tubercle. Structure.—It arises by a strong tendon, flattened from before backwards, which lies close to the front of the rhomboid ligament, and is continued for a con- siderable distance along the lower border of the muscle. Its insertion is by fleshy fibres which radiate upwards, outwards, and a little backwards, in a penniform manner, from this tendon; the inner ascending more vertically, and the outer very obliquely. Nerve-supply.—From the brachial plexus by a small branch which, arising from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, passes behind the clavicle and enters the middle of the back of the muscle.