205 OF THE SACRUM AND COCCYX The posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament (fig. 209) is a direct continuation of the posterior common ligament of the column, consisting of a narrow hand of closely packed fibres, which become blended at the lower border of the first segment of the coccyx with the filum terminale and supracornual ligament. The supracornual ligament (fig. 209) is the prolongation of the supraspinous, which becomes inseparably blended with the aponeurosis of the erector spinas opposite the lamina? of the third sacral vertebra, and is thus prolonged downwards upon the back of the coccyx, passing over and roofing in the lower end of the spinal canal where the laminae are deficient. The median fibres (the supraspinous ligament; extend over the back of the coccyx to its tip, blending with the posterior sacro- coccygeal ligament and filum terminale; the deeper fibres run across from the stunted laminae on one side to the next below on the opposite side, and from the sacral cornua on one side to the coccygeal on the opposite, some passing between the two cornua of the same side, and bridging the aperture through which the fifth sacral nerve passes. Its posterior surface gives origin to the gluteus maximus muscle. The intertransverse ligament (fig. 209) is merely a quantity of fibrous tissue which passes from the transverse process of the coccyx to the lateral edge of the sacrum below its angle. It is connected with the sacro-sciatic ligaments at their attachments, and the fifth sacral nerve escapes behind it. It is perforated by twigs from the lateral sacral artery and the coccygeal nerve. The arterial supply is from the lateral sacral and sacro-median arteries. The nerves come from the fourth and fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves. The movements permitted at this joint are of a simple forward and backward, or hinge-like character. In the act of defecation, the bone is pushed back by the fsecal mass, and, in parturition, by the foetus; but this backward movement is controlled by the upward and forward pull of the levator ani and coccygeus. The external sphincter also tends to pull the coccyx forwards. (c) Intercoccygeal Joints The several segments of the coccyx are held together by the anterior and posterior common ligaments, which completely cover the bony nodules on their anterior and posterior aspects. Laterally, the sacro-sciatic ligaments, being attached to nearly the whole length of the coccyx, serve to connect them. Between the first and second pieces of the coccyx there is a very perfect amphiarthrodial joint, with a well-marked intervertebral substance. (d) The Symphysis Pubis Class.—Ampkiarthrosis. The bones entering into this joint are the pubic portions of the hip-bones. This joint is shorter and broader in the female than in the male. The ligaments, which completely surround the articulation, are:— Superior. Anterior. Inferior. Posterior. Interosseous cartilage. The superior ligament (figs. 210 and 211) is a well-marked stratum of yellowish fibres which extends outwards along the crest of the pubes on each side, blending in the middle line with the interosseous cartilage. It is continuous in front with the deep transverse fibres of the anterior ligament, and behind with the posterior ligament. It gives origin to the rectus abdominis tendon. The posterior ligament (fig. 212) is slight, and, excepting above and below, consists of little more than thickened periosteum. Near the upper part is a band of strong fibres, reaching the whole width of the pubic bones, and continuous with the thickened periosteal fibres along the ilio-pectineal line. Below, many of the upper and superficial fibres of the infrapubic ligament ascend over the back of the