PTER \ 'G OWE US EXTERNUS 443 and much stronger head is at first separated from the upper by a small chink, which may give passage to the internal maxillary vessels. It arises fleshy, con- verges backwards, outwards, and somewhat upwards, and is inserted by short tendinous fibres. Nerve-supply.—The external pterygoid branch of the motor portion of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, which divides into filaments entering its deep surface. Action.—(1) To draw forwards the ramus of the mandible, and the inter- articular fibro-cartilage; (2) to draw them inwards. The combination of these two movements produces the oblique movement of the lower molar teeth of one side forwards and inwards with respect to the upper molars which are their opponents. It should be observed also that this inward movement of one side is the action by which the ramus of the opposite side is moved outwards. (3) To assist in opening the mouth by depression of the lower jaw. As the transverse axis of this movement passes through the mandible at two points situated below the necks of the rami, it follows that a forward movement of the condyles and necks will assist in the backward movement of the angles and body which accom- panies the depression of the mandible. Relations.—Superficially, the anterior fibres of the internal pterygoid, the temporal muscle, and, at a little distance, a small part of the masseter; deeply, the internal pterygoid muscle, the internal maxillary vessels (unless, as sometimes, they pass across the outer surface of the lower head), the middle meningeal and inferior dental vessels, with the masseteric and posterior deep temporal nerves passing behind or through the attachment of the upper head; the buccal and ante- rior deep temporal nerves running between the two heads; the lingual gustatory and inferior dental nerves beneath the lower head. Variations.—Muscular fibres are frequently found upon the deep surface of the external pterygoid, running from the back of the external pterygoid plate to the spine of the sphenoid, or the vaginal process of the temporal bone. Fig. 313.—The Pterygoid Muscles. External pterygoid Internal pterygoid