THE SPHENOID 29 Ligaments :— Posterior occipito-atlantal. Anterior occipito-atlantal. Oblique occipito-atlantal. Ligamentum nuchse. Capsular. Suspensory ligament. Check ligaments. Vertical slip of the crucial. Posterior common ligament of spine. Anterior common ligament of spine. The fibrous bag of the pharynx. Blood-supply.—The occipital bone receives branches from the occipital, pos- terior auricular, middle meningeal, vertebral and ascending pharyngeal arteries. Development.—The interparietal portion of the occipital is a membrane-bone, and arises usually by two and occasionally by four centres about the twelfth week; these nuclei rapidly become confluent and fuse with the supra-occipital portion about the fifteenth week. Occasionally this fusion fails. The centres for the rest of the bone are deposited in cartilage. The nucleus for the basi-occipital appears in the tenth week, and is quickly followed by a nucleus for each ex-occipital; the supra-occipital ossifies from two laterally disposed nuclei, which quickly coalesce and fuse with the interparietal portion near the situation of the future occipital protuberance. For many weeks two deep lateral fissures separate the interparietal and supra-occipital portions, and a membranous space, extending from the centre of the squamo-occipital to the foramen magnum, partially separates the lateral portions of the supra-occipital. This space becomes occupied by a spicule of bone, and is of interest, because through it hernia of the brain and its membranes, known as occipital meningocele or encephalocele, occurs. At birth the occipital consists of four parts: the squamo-occipital, two ex-occip- itals, and the basi-occipital, united by strips of cartilage. The ex-occipitals and squamo-occipital fuse together about the fifth year, and unite with the basi-occipital before the seventh year. The posterior two-thirds of each occipital condyle belongs to the ex-occipitals, and the anterior third to the basi-occipital (fig. 33). Not infrequently the interparietal portion remains separate throughout life, and may even be represented by numerous detached ossicles or Wormian bones. By the twenty-fifth year the basi-occipital is firmly ankylosed to the sphenoid. The sphenoid forms a large part of the base of the skull in the region of the anterior and middle fossse. It is very irregular in shape, and is best described as consisting of a body, two pairs of wings, and two pairs of processes. Fig. 35.—The Occipital with a Separate Interparietal. THE SPHENOID