THE RADIO-CARPAL is called pronation, when the radius from a position nearly parallel to the ulna turns inwards so as to lie obliquely across it; and supination, when the radius turns back again from within outwards, so as to uncross and lie nearly parallel with the ulna. In these movements, the radius carries with it the hand, which rotates on an axis passing a little to the inner side of the middle line; thus, the hand when pronated, lies with its dorsum upwards, as in playing the piano, while when supinatcd, the palm lies upwards—the attitude of a beggar asking alms. Ward thus expresses the relations of the two extremities of the radius in pronation and supination: ' The head of the radius is so disposed in relation to the sigmoid cavity at the lower end that the axis of the former if prolonged falls upon the centre of the circle of which the latter is a segment;' the axis thus passes through the lower end of the ulna at a point at which the triangular fibro-cartilage is attached, and if prolonged further, passes through the ring ringer. Thus the radius describes, in rotating, a blunt- pointed cone whose apex is the centre of the radial head, and whose base is at the wrist; partial rotation of the bone being unaccompanied by any hinge-like or antero-posterior motion of its head, and pronation and supination occurring with- out disturbance to the parallelism of the bones at the superior radio-ulnar joint. Associated with this rotation in the ordinary way, there is some rotation of the humero-ulnar shaft, which causes lateral shifting of the hand from side to side; thus, with pronation there is some abduction, and with supination some adduction combined, so that the hand can keep on the same superficies in both pronation and supination. The power of supination in man is much greater than pronation, owing to the immense power and leverage obtained by the curve of the radius, and by the attachment of the biceps tendon to the back of the tubercle. For this reason all our screw-driving and boring tools are made to be used by supination movements. In the undissected state, the amount of rotation it is possible to obtain is about 135°, so that neither the palm nor the fore part of the lower end of the radius can be turned completely in opposite directions; yet in the living subject this amount can be greatly increased by rotation of the humero-ulnar shaft at the shoulder-joint. Pronation is checked in the living subject by (a) the posterior inferior radio- ulnar ligament, which is strengthened by the connection of the sheath of the extensor tendons with it; (b) the lowermost fibres of the interosseous membrane; (c) the back part of the internal and adjacent fibres of the posterior ligament of the wrist, and (d) the meeting of the soft parts on the front of the forearm. Supination is checked mainly (a) by the internal lateral ligament of the wrist, but partly also by (b) the oblique radio-ulnar ligament; (c) the anterior inferior radio-ulnar ligament, and (d) the lowest fibres of the interosseous membrane. The interosseous membrane serves, from the direction of its fibres downwards and inwards from the radius to the ulna, to transmit the weight of the body from the ulna to the radius in the extended position of the elbow, as in pushing forwards with the arms extended, or in supporting one's own weight on the hands, the ulna being in close contact with the humerus, but scarcely at all with the carpus; while the radius is scarcely in contact with the humerus, but in close contact with the carpus. Hence the weight transmitted by the ulna is communicated to the radius by the tightening of the interosseous membrane. Conversely, it falls upon the hand with the arm extended, the interosseous membrane acting as a sling to break the violence of the shock, and preventing the whole force of the impact from expend- ing itself directly upon the capitellum. 6. THE RADIO-CARPAL ARTICULATION Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Condylarihrosis. The wrist-joint is formed by the union of the radius and triangular fibro-car- tilage above, articulating with the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones below; i the ulna being excluded by the intervention of the triangular fibro-cartilage. The radius and triangular cartilage together present a smooth surface, slightly concave both from before backwards, and from side to side; whilst the three bones of the