SUPRARENAL—SPERM A TIC 561 THE SUPRARENAL ARTERIES The capsular or suprarenal arteries are derived from three sources, and are named as follows:—(1) Superior suprarenal; (2) middle suprarenal; and (3) inferior suprarenal. (1) The superior suprarenals, one on each side, are usually derived from the phrenics, and descend to the suprarenal bodies. (2) The middle suprarenals, or suprarenals proper, come off one on each side from the aorta, just above the first lumbar artery, and pass transversely outwards to the suprarenal bodies, across the crura of the diaphragm a little above the renal arteries. In the foetus they equal the renals in size. In the adult they are much smaller. (3) The inferior suprarenals are branches of the renals. They ascend, one on each side, to the suprarenal bodies. The suprarenal veins, usually one on each side, terminate as a rule on the left side in the left renal; on the right side, in the inferior vena cava. For the distribution of the suprarenal vessels within the suprarenal capsules, see page 1014. THE SPERMATIC ARTERIES The spermatic arteries come off from the front of the abdominal aorta. They diverge from each other as they descend over the aorta and psoas muscle to the deep or internal abdominal ring, where they are joined by the vas deferens, and, passing with it through the inguinal canal and out of the external or superficial abdominal ring, run downwards into the scrotum in a tortuous course to the testicle. They terminate in branches to the epididymis and body of that organ. Within the abdomen they lie beneath the peritoneum, and cross in their descent over the ureter and distal end of the external iliac artery; the right being superficial to the vena cava, and behind the termination of the ileum; and the left beneath the sigmoid flexure of the colon. In the inguinal canal and in the scrotum the spermatic veins lie in front of the artery, and the vas deferens lies behind it. In the foetus these vessels pass transversely outwards to the testicle, which in early fcetal life lies in the loin in front of the kidney; but as the testicles descend to the scrotum, the vessels become elongated, and are drawn with the testicle into the scrotum. The spermatic arteries give off the following branches:—(1) Ureteral; (2) cre- masteric; (3) epididymal; and (4) testicular. (1) The ureteral are small branches given off to the ureter as the spermatic artery crosses it. They anastomose with the other ureteral branches derived from the renal, common iliac, and vesical arteries. (2) The cremasteric are small branches given off to the cremaster muscle; they anastomose with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric. (3) The epididymal are distributed to the epididymis, and anastomose with the artery of the vas. (4) The testicular are the terminal branches of the spermatic; they perforate the tunica albuginea posteriorly, and are distributed to the body of the organ in the way mentioned in the section on the Testicle. Chief variations in the spermatic arteries.—(A) One or both may be wanting, the testicle being then supplied by branches from the vesical or prostatic arteries passing under the arch of the pubis. (B) One or both may arise from the renal, more rarely from the suprarenal. (C) One may come off higher than the other. (D) They may come off from a common stem. (E) One or both may be double in the whole or part of their course. (F) The right spermatic may run behind instead of in front of the inferior vena cava. 36