THE SKELETON 2 other hand, there are numerous instances in the skull, of hones the ossification of which begins in, and is perfected by, the intermembranous method. Ossification in a few instances commences in membrane, but later invades tracts of cartilage; occasionally the process begins in perichondrium and remains restricted to it, never invading the underlying cartilage, which gradually disappears as the result of continued pressure exerted upon it by the growing bone. The vomer and nasal bones are the best examples of this mode of development. A Classified List of the Bones to show their Mode of Development 1. All the limb-bones and those of the vertebral column are pre-formed in car- tilage and perfected in membrane, with the exception of the clavicles. These begin in membrane, proceed in cartilage, and are finally perfected in membrane. 2. The Skull. Membrane-Bones Parietals. Frontal. Squamosals. Maxillae. Malars. Palates. Nasals. Interparietal portion of occipital. Wormian bones and the epipterics. Tympanies. Mandible (except part near the symphysis). Lachrymals. Vomer. Cartilage Bones Sphenoid. Occipital (except interparietal portion). Petrosals. Ethmoid. Mallei. Incudes. Stapes. Styloid processes. Hyoid. Symphysial portion of the mandible. Inferior turbinate. Internal pterygoid plate. Many of the skull bones are composite, that is, they consist of two or more ele- ments which remain separate in other vertebrates. To this group belong:— The Occipital. Maxilla?. Frontal. Temporals. Hyoid. Malars. Ethmoid. Sphenoid. Mandible. The details of the development and ossification of each bone are added to the description. The limb-bones differ in several important particulars from those of the skull. Some of the long bones have many centres of ossification, but the centres are of very different morphological value from those of the skull. Speaking generally, it is only the primary nuclei that have any especial value for the morphologist. The primary nucleus of a long bone appears before birth. In only three instances does a secondary centre appear before birth; e.g. the condyles of the femur, the head of the tibia, and occasionally in the head of the humerus. Many primary ossific nuclei appear after birth; for example, those for the carpal bones, the cuneiform and scaphoid (navicular) bones of the foot, the coracoid process of the scapula, and the third, fourth and fifth pieces of the sternum. When a bone ossifies from one nucleus only, this nucleus may appear before or after birth. Examples: the astragalus at the seventh month of embryonic life, and the trapezoid at the eighth year. When a bone possesses one or more secondary centres, the primary nucleus, as a rule, appears early. Examples: the femur, humerus, phalanges, and the calcaneum. Secondary centres which remain for a time distinct from the main portion of a bone are termed epiphyses. An epiphysis may arise from a single nucleus, as is the case with the lower end of the femur; or from several, as at the upper end of the humerus. Prominences about the ends of long bones may be capped by sepa-