617 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK Some anatomists describe the external jugular vein as being formed by the junction of the posterior auricular and occipital veins. The vein here regarded as the upper part of the trunk of the external jugular is looked upon by them merely as a branch of communication between the external jugular and temporo-maxillary vein. The chief variations of the external jugular vein are:—(1) It may be very small, or much smaller or much larger than the opposite vein ; (2) it may be wanting on one or both sides, the veins which normally form it then opening into the internal jugular ; (3) it may be formed merely by the posterior auricular vein; (4) it may be perforated by the superfieialis colli nerve ; (5) it may receive the facial, the lingual, and the cephalic veins ; (G) it may pass over the clavicle and open into the cephalic or subclavian vein. Tributaries and communications.—From above downwards, the external jugular receives a branch from the internal jugular vein; the posterior external jugular, which in the foetus was part of the primitive jugular vein; a large branch connecting it with the facial vein; one or two small branches of communi- cation from the anterior jugular vein; near its termination, the transverse cervi- cal and suprascapular veins ; and sometimes the anterior jugular vein at the posterior border and hinder surface of the sterno-mastoid. At times the occipital vein opens into the external jugular, and is by some anatomists regarded as the normal termination of the former vein. The posterior external jugular vein descends from the upper and back part of the neck, receiving small tributaries from the superficial structures and muscles. At times it communicates with the occipital, or may appear as a continuation of that vein. It opens into the external jugular as the latter vein is leaving the sterno-mastoid muscle. In the foetus this vein returns the blood from the interior of the cranium through the post-glenoid foramen. Vestiges of the foetal trunk are said to remain in the mastoid vein. The suprascapular veins, two in number, correspond to the suprascapular artery. They usually form one trunk before they open into the external jugular vein. They contain well-marked valves. The transverse cervical veins—or vena? comites of the transverse cervical artery—accompany that vessel and open with the suprascapular vein into the external jugular close to the spot where the latter vein joins the subclavian. The anterior jugular vein begins below the chin by communicating with the mental, submental, inferior labial, and inferior hyoid veins. It descends a little external to the middle line, receiving branches from the superficial structures at the front and side of the neck, and occasionally a branch from the larynx and thyroid body. Just above the clavicle it turns outwards, and, piercing the fascia, passes beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle and opens into the external jugular vein just before the latter joins the subclavian; at times it opens into the subclavian vein itself. In its course down the neck it communicates with the external jugular; and, as it turns outwards beneath the sterno-mastoid, sends a branch across the trachea, between the layers of cervical fascia, to join the anterior jugular of the opposite side. This communicating vein may be divided in the operation of tracheotomy, and is then often found greatly engorged with blood. Another branch, often of consider- able size, courses along the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid and joins the facial vein. When the anterior jugular vein is large, the external jugular is small, and vice versa. It is usually also of large size when the corresponding vein on the opposite side is absent, as is frequently the case. It contains no valves. The position of the anterior jugular vein beneath the tendon of the sterno-mastoid should be borne in mind in tenotomy of that muscle for wry-neck. THE DEEP VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK The deep veins of the head and neck may be divided into—1. the veins of the diploe; 2. the venous sinuses of the cranium; 3. the veins of the brain; 4. the veins of the nasal cavities; 5. the veins of the ear; 6. the veins of the orbit; 7. the veins of the pharynx and larynx; and 8. the deep veins of the neck. The veins of