264 THE ARTICULATIONS superior aspect, where the border of the outer tuberosity of the tibia is bevelled by the popliteus muscle, the joint is in the closest proximity to the bursa beneath the tendon of that muscle, and is only separated from the knee-joint by a thin septum of areolar tissue. There is often a communication between the synovial cavities of the two joints. The ligaments uniting the bones are:— Capsular. Anterior tibio-fibular. Posterior tibio-fibular. The capsular ligament is a well-marked fibro-areolar structure; it is attached close round the articular margins of the tibia and fibula. In front it is shut off completely from the knee-joint by the capsule of the knee and the coronary liga- ment; but behind, it is often very thin, and may communicate with the bursa under the popliteus tendon. The anterior tibio-fibular ligament (fig. 251) consists of a few fibres which pass upwards and inwards from the fibula to the tibia. It lies beneath the anterior portion of the tendon of the biceps. The posterior tibio-fibular ligament (fig. 245) consists of a few fibres which pass upwards and inwards between the adjacent bones, from the head of the fibula to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The superior interosseous ligament consists of a mass of dense yellow fibro- areolar tissue, binding the opposed surfaces of the bones together for three-quarters of an inch (2 cm.) below the articular facets. It is continuous with the interosseous membrane along the tibia. The biceps tendon is divided by the long external lateral ligament of the knee; of the two divisions the anterior is by far the stronger, and is attached to the external tuberosity of the tibia as well as to the front of the head of the fibula, and thus the muscle, acting on both bones, tends to brace them more tightly together; indeed, it holds the bones strongly together after all other connections have been severed. The synovial membrane which lines the joint sometimes communicates with the knee-joint through the bursa beneath the popliteus tendon. The arterial supply is from the inferior external articular and recurrent tibial arteries. The nerve-supply is from the inferior external articular, and also from the recurrent branch of the external popliteal. The movements are but slight, and consist merely of a gliding of the two bones upon each other. The joint is so constructed that the fibula gives some support to the tibia in transmitting the weight to the foot. The articular facet of the tibia overhangs, and is received upon the articular facet of the head of the fibula in an oblique plane. This joint allows of slight yielding of the external malleolus during flexion and extension of the ankle-joint, the whole fibula gliding slightly upwards in flexion, and downwards in extension of the ankle. (b) The Middle Tibio-fibular Union The interosseous membrane is attached along the outer border of the tibia and the interosseous border of the fibula. It is deficient above for about an inch (2'5 cm.) or more, measured from the under aspect of the superior joint. Its upper border is concave, and over it pass the anterior tibial vessels. The membrane consists of a thin aponeurotic and translucent lamina, formed of oblique fine fibres, some of which run from the tibia to the fibula, and some from the fibula to the tibia, but all are inclined downwards. They are best marked at their attachment to the bones, and gradually grow denser and thicker as they approach the inferior interosseous ligament. The chief vise of the membrane is to afford a surface for the origin of muscles. It is continuous below with the inferior interosseous ligament.