'.HI THE SKELETON The Metamorphosis of the Branchial Bars These rods of cartilage are named, from before backwards, the mandibular, hyoid, and thyroid bars. They may with care be easily dissected in the Ibetus between the third and fourth mouths. Their metamorphosis is as follows :— The two extremities of the mandibular bar ossify; the distal end ultimately forms that portion of the mandible adjacent to the symphysis; the proximal end ossifies as the malleus. The intermediate portion disappears; the only vestige is a band of fibrous tissue, the spheno-mandibular ligament, extending from the spine of the sphenoid to the spine of the mandible. The hyoid bar fuses distally with the thyroid bar, and is represented by the hyoid bone. Its proximal end becomes the incus, tympano-hyal, and styloid process; the intervening strip is represented in the adult by the stylo-hyoid ligament. The styloid process has two centres of ossification. A nucleus appears anterior to the stylo- mastoid foramen, and is known as the tympano-hyal. At birth the true styloid process is carti- laginous. In the second year it ossifies, and subsequently becomes firmly ankylosed to the tympano-hyal. Occasionally the hyoid bar may ossify throughout. When this is the case the styloid process reaches to the hyoid and replaces the stylo-hyoid ligament. The stapes originates in a piece of cartilage which is traversed by the temporary stapedial artery. Its centres of ossification require investigation. The internal pterygoid plate arises in a piece of cartilage which represents the palato-quadrate of lower vertebrates. The internal pterygoid plate is an appendicular element engrafted on to the sphenoid. In many mammals it is a separate bone throughout life. In the same way the styloid process is an appendicular element ankylosed to the petrosal and the tympanic plate ; in many mammals it remains separate throughout life. The Skull at Birth The skull at birth presents, when compared with the adult skull, several important and interesting features. Its peculiarities may be considered under three headings :—The peculi- arities of the foetal skull as a whole; the condition of individual bones; the remnants of the chondral skull. The general characters of the foetal skull.—The most striking features of the skull at birth are, its relatively large size in comparison with the body, and the predominance of the cerebral over the facial portion of the skull; the latter is, in fact, very small. The frontal and parietal eminences are large and conspicuous ; the sutures are absent; the adjacent margins of the bones of the vault are separated by septa of fibrous tissue continuous with the dura mater internally and the pericranium externally ; hence it is difficult to separate the roof bones from the underlying dura mater, each bone being lodged as it were in a dense membranous sac. The bones of the vault consist of a single layer without any diploe, and their cranial surfaces present no digital impressions. Six membranous spaces exist, named fontanelles : two are median, named anterior and posterior; and two exist on each side, termed anterior and posterior lateral fontanelles. Each angle of the parietal bones is in relation with a fontanelle.