356 THE MUSCLES Structure.—The greater part of the muscle arises by three fleshy slips on the ridges of bone between, and external to, the anterior sacral foramina. From this origin, which receives accessory slips of small size from the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the upper portion of the great sacro-sciatic notch, the fibres converge as they pass transversely outwards and somewhat backwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The tendon is first visible upon the deep aspect of the muscle, and it becomes free near the posterior border of the greater trochanter. Shortly before its insertion it is closely blended with the tendon of the obturator interims muscle. Nerve-supply.—From the sacral plexus by small branches which pass from the second sacral nerve into the anterior surface of the muscle near its origin. Action.—To rotate the thigh outwards. When the thigh is fixed, it will rotate the pelvis so that the face is turned to the opposite side; if the thigh be flexed, the pyriformis will abduct it. Relations.—In front, the sacral plexus and rectum, the back of the hip-joint, and some of the branches of the internal iliac artery; behind, the gluteus maximus; above, the gluteus medius and minimus, with the superior gluteal vessels and nerve; below, the coccygeus, the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament and gemellus superior, the sciatic and pudic vessels, and most of the branches from the sacral plexus. Variations.—The pyriformis may be absent. It is often divided by a part of the great sciatic nerve into two muscles, and sometimes into three. It may be more or less blended with the gluteus medius or minimus above, and the superior gemellus below. 2, 3, and 4. OBTURATOR INTERNUS AND GEMELLI The obturator internus and gemelli form really a single muscle, the greater part of which arises inside the pelvis; while the gemelli form two accessory slips which join it from the margin of that cavity. The obturator internus—named from the fact that it arises from the mem- brane which closes up the obturator foramen, and from its position within the pelvis—is a somewhat triangular sheet, or rather,'perhaps, it should be described as the sector of a circle, for its origin within the pelvis is bounded by a curved line like a part of the circumference of a circle. ■ Origin.—The whole of the interior of that part of the pelvis which is formed by the innominate bone: viz. (1) The back of the body and descending ramus of the os pubis, and of the ascending ramus of the ischium; (2) the whole of the inner surface of the obturator membrane; (3) the broad surface of bone behind the fora- men, corresponding to the acetabulum on the exterior; (4) the outer surface of the pelvic and obturator fasciae. These extend from the ilio-pectineal line above to the great sacro-sciatic foramen behind, and to the spine and tuberosity of the ischium below. Insertion.—The inner aspect of the upper border of -the greater trochanter at the point where it unites with the upper border of the neck of the.femur. Structure.—The muscle arises fleshy from the whole of the interior of the pouch-like cavity formed by the pelvic and obturator fascia; internally and the bony wall of the pelvis externally, and opening backwards and downwards at the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. From this extensive origin the fibres converge downwards and backwards upon a broad tendinous expansion which begins about one inch (2 -5 cm. ) above the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen upon the outer surface of the muscle. This expansion is corrugated into four or five folds, which are separated from the cartila- ginous lining of the lesser sacro-sciatic notch by a bursal cavity which allows of the smooth play of the tendon upon the bone. This cartilage presents corresponding grooves for the folds of the tendon. After passing through this foramen the tendon changes its course, and is directed transversely outwards and forwards to its inser- tion. The fleshy fibres extend upon the inner, which has now become its posterior surface for about half the distance from the notch to the facet upon the greater trochanter. For a short distance before its insertion it is intimately connected with the tendon of the pyriformis. Nerve-supply.—From the first and second sacral nerves of the sacral plexus