96 THE SKELETON occupies the sphenotic (middle lacerated) foramen. A strip of cartilage exists along the posterior border-of the orbito-sphenoid, and not unfrequently extends outwards to the pterion. In t he adult skull it is replaced by ligamentous tissue. The ethmo-vomerine plate is entirely cartilaginous, and near the end of the nose supports the lateral nasal cartilages, remnants of the fronto-nasal plate. The fate of the ethmo-vomerine plate is instructive. The upper part is ossified to form the mesethmoid ; the lower part atrophies from the pressure exerted_ by the vomer; the tip remains as the triangular cartilage. The lateral snout-like extremities of the fronto-nasal plate persist as the lateral cartilages of the nose. Among the appendicular elements of the skull, the styloid process and a large portion of the hyoid are cartilaginous at birth. The Nerve-foramina of the Skull The various foramina and canals in the skull which give passage to nerves may be arranged in two groups, primary and secondary. Primary foramina indicate the spots where the nerves quit the general cavity of the dura mater, and as this membrane indicates the limit of the primitive cranium, a cranial nerve, in a morphological sense, becomes extra-cranial at the point where it pierces this membrane. In consequence of the complicated and extraordinary modi- fications the vertebrate skull has undergone, many nerves traverse, in the adult skull, bony tunnels and canals which are not represented in the less complex skulls of low vertebrates such as sharks and rays. To such foramina and canals the terms secondary or adventitious may be applied. Nerve-foramina are further interesting in that they occupy sutures, or indicate the points of Union of two or more ossific centres. To this rule the foramen rotuudum is the only exception in the human skull. The Primary Foramina 1. Foramen magnum.—This is bounded by four distinct centres, the supra-, basi-, and two cx-occipitals. It transmits the spinal accessory nerve, the vertebral artery and its anterior and posterior spinal branches, the spinal cord and its membranes. 2. The anterior condyloid.—At birth this is a deep notch in the anterior extremity of the ex-occipital, and becomes a complete foramen when the basi- and ex-occipitals fuse. Occasionally it may be complete in the ex-occipital, but it indicates accurately the line of union of these two elements of the occipital bone. It transmits the hypoglossal nerve, the meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery, and its ven;e comites. 3. Jugular foramen.—This occupies the petro-occipital suture, and is formed by the basi- and ex-occipital in conjunction with the petrosal. It transmits the glosso pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves, a meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery, and receives the lateral and inferior petrosal sinuses. 4. Auditory.—This marks the point of confluence of the groups of centres termed pro-otic and opisthotic. It transmits the facial and auditory nerves with the auditory twig of the basilar artery. 5. Trigeminal.—This is only a foramen when the dura mater is present in the skull. It is a notch at the apex of the petrosal converted into a foramen by the tentorium. The main trunk of the trigeminal nerve with the small motor root traverses it to enter the Meckelian cave. 6. Petro-sphenoidal.—This is a notch between the side of the dorsum ephippii and apex of the petrosal which becomes converted into a foramen by dura mater. 7. Optic.—This foramen is formed by the confluence of the orbito- and pre-sphenoidal centres. It opens into the orbit and transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. The Secondary Nerve-foramina Foramina transmitting the various subdivisions of the fifth nerve.—The primary foramen of exit lor the trigeminal nerve is formed partly of bone and partly of membrane at the apex of the petrosal. The three divisions of the nerve issue through secondary foramina, (a) The sphenoidal fissure is an elongated chink, bounded above by the orbital wing and below by the greater wing of the sphenoid, internally by the body of the sphenoid, and externally by the frontal. It opens into the orbit, and transmits the third, fourth, first (ophthalmic) division of the fifth, and sixth nerves, also the ophthalmic vein. (b) The foramen rotundum is the only exception to the rule relating to the formation of nerve-foramina: it is probably a segment of the sphenoidal fissure. The foramen is really a canal running from the middle cranial fossa to the spheno-maxillary fossa, and transmits the second or maxillary division of the trigeminal. (c) The foramen ovale at birth is a gap in the hinder border of the greater wing (ali-sphe- noid) of the sphenoid, and is converted into a foramen by the petrosal; subsequently it becomes complete in the sphenoid. It transmits the third or mandibular division of the trigeminal and the small or motor root, the small superficial petrosal nerve (which occasionally passes through a separate foramen), and the small meningeal artery with its venae comites.