1087 CRANIO-CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY under the following headings: A. Relation of the brain as a whole to the skull. B. Relation of the chief sulci and convolutions to the skull. C. Localisation of the chief sulci and convolutions. Before alluding to the above, it is necessary to say distinctly that the following surface-markings and points of guidance are only approximately reliable, for the following reasons: (1) In two individuals of the same age and sex the sulci and convolutions are never precisely alike. (2) The relations of the convolutions and sulci to the surface vary in different individuals. (8) That as the surface area of the scalp and outer aspect of the skull are greater than the surface area of the brain, and as the convexities do not tally, lines drawn on the scalp or skull cannot always correspond precisely to cerebral convolutions or sulci. It results from the above that when a definite area of the surface is said to correspond accurately in any individual to a definite area of the brain surface, this result has been correlated from many examinations; and that as surface-markings, shape, and processes of skull and Fig. 664.—The Outline of the Brain and its Fissures in Relation to the Sutures of the Skull. (Cunningham.) S M. Supraeiliary margin of the cerebrum, i.l.m. Infero-lateral margin of the cerebrum. L.S. Position of highest part of the arch of the lateral sinus, r. Fissure of Polando. s1. Anterior horizontal limb of Sylvian fissure, s2. Anterior ascending limb of Sylvian fissure, s3. Posterior horizontal limb of Sylvian fissure. p.B. Pars basilaris of the inferior frontal convolution, p.t. Pars triangularis of the inferior frontal convolution, p.o. Pars orbitalis of the inferior frontal convolution. arrangement of brain surface are all liable to variations in different individuals, the surgeon must allow for these variations by removing more than that definite area of skull which is said to correspond exactly to that part of the brain which he desires to expose. A. Relation of the brain as a whole to the skull (figs. 664 and 666).— Traced from before backwards, the lower level of each cerebral hemisphere would follow a line across the forehead, slightly curved upwards above the eyebrows, crossing from the forehead to the temple immediately above the external angular process of the frontal. It then descends slightly along a line now convex forwards in the front of the temporal fossa to about the centre of the upper margin of the zygomatic arch. From this point a line should be drawn just above the external auditory meatus to the external occipital protuberance. To trace the lower level of the brain more precisely on the skull, the chalk would start from the lower part of the glabella; thence the line pursues a course, slightly curved upwards, about a third of +