SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1134 opposite the femoral vessels it also joins the fascia iliaca, and forms with it a funnel-shaped sheath; (d) internal to the femoral vessels the fascia transversalis is attached to the ilio-pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon, with which it blends. internal ring.—It has already been said that the term ' ring' is here mis- applied except in an artificial sense, as when an opening is made by a scalpel; or in a pathological one, as when a hernia is making its way by opening up the parts. The terms ' internal' and ' external' are also misapplied as far as their usual appli- cation to the middle line of the body is concerned. The terms apply to depth only. The ' internal ring' is not a ring in the least, but merely a funnel-shaped expansion of the transversalis fascia, which the cord carries on with it as it escapes from the abdomen. This expansion may be weakened, but it is never an opening save when made so artificially. Site.—Midway between the anterior superior spine and spine of pubes. Shape : Fig. 702.—Dissection of the Lower Part of the Abdominal Wall from within, the Peritoneum having been removed. (Wood.) External iliac artery oval, with the long diameter upwards. Dimensions : one inch (25 mm.) by half an inch. Both these are artificial. Boundaries : centre of Poupart's ligament, about half an inch below. Internally, the deep epigastric artery (fig. 702); and thus the inner side seems to be better defined. But the outer side is really the better denned, as here the transversalis fascia is descending to Poupart's ligament, to form the deep ' crural' arch, and to help to close in the great gap or notch between Pou- part's ligament and the innominate bone. Owing to the artery lying to the inner side, the incision, in cutting to relieve the dee}) constriction of an inguinal hernia, should always be made directly upwards, so as to avoid the above vessel. Coverings.—There are two chief forms of inguinal hernia:— A. The common form : external, or oblique.—External, because it appears (at the internal ring) external to the deep epigastric artery. Oblique, because it traverses the whole of the inguinal canal, entering it at its inlet and leaving it at its outlet. B. Rarer form : internal, or direct.—Internal, because it appears internal