4S2 THE ARTERIES the vertebral column, and to the sympathetic nerve and lymphatic glands. These branches anastomose with branches of the ascending cervical. (2) The pharyngeal supply the superior and middle constrictor muscles and the mucous membrane lining them. These vessels anastomose with branches of the superior thyroid. (3) The palatine passes over the upper edge of the superior constrictor to the soft palate and its muscles. This branch follows a course similar to that taken by the ascending palatine artery, and when the latter is small may take its place. It generally gives off small twigs to the Eustachian tube and tonsil. (4) The tympanic accompanies the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the tympanic canaliculus into the tympanum, and anastomoses with the other tympanic arteries. (5) The meningeal are distributed to the membranes of the brain. Some of these pass with the jugular vein through the jugular foramen into the cranium, and supply the dura mater in the posterior fossa of the skull. Others occasionally reach the same fossa through the anterior condy- loid foramen in company with the hypoglossal nerve; while others pass through the cartilage of the middle lacerated foramen and supply the middle fossa of the skull. ' 2. THE SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY The superior thyroid artery arises from the front of the external carotid a little above the origin of that vessel, and, coursing forwards, inwards, and then downwards, in a tortuous manner, supplies the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, the larynx, the thyroid body, and the lower part of the pharynx. The artery at first runs forwards and a little upwards, just beneath the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. In this part of its course it lies in the superior carotid triangle, and is quite superficial, being covered only with the integument, fascia, and platysma. It next turns downwards, and passes beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and ends at the upper part of the thyroid body by breaking up into branches, some of which pass downwards in front, and others behind the lateral lobe of that structure to anastomose with ascending branches from the inferior thyroid; whilst others, again, but much smaller in size, pass in the substance of the isthmus across the front of the trachea to anastomose with the superior thyroid artery of the opposite side. These vessels, however, are so small, that if the isthmus is divided accurately in the middle line, there is practically no arterial haemorrhage. From the branch to the thyroid body twigs are given off to the inferior constrictor and the upper part of the oesophagus. These anastomose with branches from the inferior thyroid. The superior thyroid vein passes beneath the artery on its way to the internal jugular vein. The superior thyroid is the artery most commonly divided in cases of suicidal wounds of the throat. Branches of the Superior Thyroid Artery The named branches of the superior thyroid artery are:—(1) The hyoid; (2) the sterno-mastoid; (3) the superior laryngeal; and (4) the crico-thyroid. (1) The hyoid—or infra-hyoid branch as it is sometimes called, usually a small twig—passes along the lower border of the hyoid bone, lying on the thyro- hyoid membrane under cover of the thyro-hyoid and sterno-hyoid muscles. It supplies the infra-hyoid bursa, and the thyro-hyoid muscle, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the supra-hyoid branch of the lingual. When the latter artery is small, the infra-hyoid is usually comparatively large, and vice versa. (2) The sterno-mastoid (fig. 332)—or middle mastoid artery as it is occa- sionally called—courses downwards and backwards across the carotid sheath, and entering the sterno-mastoid supplies the middle portion of that muscle. It gives off slender twigs to the thyro-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles, and the platysma and integuments covering it. At times the vessel arises directly from the external carotid. It lies usually somewhere in the upper part of the incision for tying the common carotid above the omo-hyoid muscle. (3) The superior laryngeal (fig. 329) passes inwards and forwards beneath