552 THE ARTERIES Variations in the Abdominal Aorta Variations in the abdominal aorta, except as regards its place of division and some irregu- larity in the origin and number of its branches, are not common. According to Quain, in ten out of every thirteen subjects examined, the bifurcation took place within half an inch above or below the level of the highest part of the crest of the ilium. The commonest situation for its bifurca- tion with reference to the vertebrae is perhaps opposite the lower border of the body of the fourth lumbar, but it may divide opposite the disc between the fourth and fifth lumbar, or rarely oppo- site the fifth lumbar. A higher division than at the usual spot is less common. The artery, however, has been found in exceptional instances dividing as high as the origin of the renal arteries, or even as high as the second lumbar vertebra. The following rare variations have been met with :—(A) The aorta passing through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. (B) The aorta lying on the right side of the vena cava; the vein then passes over the upper part of the aorta to gain the caval opening. (C) The aorta with a vena cava on each side, the left vein passing across the upper part of the artery to open Fig. 364.—Scheme of the Abdominal Aorta. (Walsham. LESSER OMENTUM Splenic vein PANCREAS Left renal vein Superior mesenteric artery TRANSVERSE MES0-C0L0N THIRD PART OF DUODENUM TRANSVERSE COLON MESENTERY SMALL INTESTINES GREAT OMENTUM Inferior mesenteric artery THORACIC DUCT Cceliac axis First lumbar vein RECEPTACULUM CHVLI Second lumbar vein PERITONEUM Third I inn bar vein Fourth lumbar vein into the right vein just below the caval opening. (D) The aorta giving off a pulmonary branch close to the origin of the cceliac axis, the abnormal vessel then passing through the oesophageal opening, and supplying a branch to the lower lobe of each lung. The variations in the branches of the aorta are described under each branch. Branches of the Abdominal Aorta The branches of the abdominal aorta are given off in the following order from above downwards (fig. 363):— (1) Right and left phrenic; (2) cceliac axis; (3) right and left suprarenal or capsular; (4) right and left first lumbar; (5) superior mesenteric; (6) right and left renal; (7) right and left spermatic; (8) right and left second lumbar; (9) inferior mesenteric; (10) right and left third lumbar; (11) right and left fourth lumbar; (12) right and left common iliac; (13) middle sacral. The above branches may be divided into the parietal, the visceral, and the terminal.