INNOMINATE 605 clavicular articulation on the left side to the lower border of the first costal carti- lage at its junction with the sternum on the right side, will indicate its course. The left innominate vein is on a level with the top of the sternum at birth. Relations.—In front, in addition to the manubrium of the sternum, it has the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the remains of the thymus gland, the sternal end of the left clavicle, and the sterno-clavicular articu- lation (figs. 328, 381a). Behind, are the three chief arteries arising from the arch of the aorta, the trachea, and the left phrenic and left pneumogastric nerves. Below it is the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. Above it are the cervical fascia and inferior thyroid veins. Tributaries.—In addition to the internal jugular and subclavian veins, by the confluence of which the innominate veins are formed, each vein receives on its upper aspect the vertebral, the deep cervical and inferior thyroid veins; and on its lower aspect the internal mammary vein. The left vein, moreover, is joined by the left superior intercostal, and by the thymic, mediastinal, and pericardiac veins. At the confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian veins on the right side, the right lymphatic duct opens; on the left side the thoracic duct. The vertebral, the deep cervical, and the inferior thyroid veins are described with the deep veins of the head and neck (page 628). The internal mammary veins (fig. 344) are formed by the union of the venae comites of the superior epigastric and musculophrenic branches of the inter- nal mammary artery. They receive in their course through the chest collateral tributaries corresponding to the branches of the internal mammary artery. Just before reaching the innominate vein they unite behind the first intercostal space to form a single trunk which opens into the innominate A'ein on the inner side of the internal mammary artery. They contain many valves. The left superior intercostal vein—or, more correctly speaking, the lower left superior intercostal vein—longer than the right, which is described as a tributary of the vena azygos major, receives the intercostal veins from the three or four upper left intercostal spaces except from the first space, and, ascending over the arch of the aorta, opens into the left innominate vein. It usually receives the left bronchial vein, and communicates with the upper left azygos vein. (See Inter- costal Veins, page 608.) Tlie mediastinal, pericardiac, and thymic veins are small vessels, correspond- ing to the arteries of those names given off by the internal mammary. They do not, however, as a rule, join the internal mammary vein, but unite into a single trunk (figs. 317, 382),which passes over the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, and opens into the lower and anterior part of the left innominate vein. Chief Variations in the Superior Vena Cava and Innominate Veins The variations in the vena cava and innominate veins depend upon certain abnormalities in the development of the great veins from the ducts of Cuvier and the primitive jugular veins, and can here receive only a brief mention. They may be classified as follows :— (1) Variations due to the Persistence of the Left Duct of Cuvier (a) The left subclavian may join the left internal jugular vein to form a trunk which is con- tinued almost vertically downwards over the arch of the aorta in front of the root of the left lung, to open into the coronary sinus of the heart. This variety is known as the persistent left superior vena cava, and is the normal arrangement of the great anterior veins in some animals. The rudi- ments of this vein are found in Man in the so-called oblique vein of Marshall, which stretches from the coronary sinus through the vestigial fold of the pericardium, and is often continued as a fine fibrous cord to the superior intercostal vein. When the so-called left superior vena cava is present, the upper left azygos vein (the remains of the left primitive cardinal vein) may open into it by arching over the root of the left lung in a way similar to that in which the greater azygos (the right primitive cardinal vein) opens into the superior vena cava over the root of the right lung. The normal left innominate vein may be absent, or may be quite small or rudimentary, the result of the non-development, or only partial development, of a transverse branch (which becomes the left innominate) when the left part of the sinus venosus and the left duct of Cuvier are transformed into the coronary sinus, the oblique vein of Marshall, and the upper portion of the left superior intercostal vein.