550 THE ARTERIES along which it runs between the intercostal muscles to anastomose with the inferior division of the anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery. It is much smaller than the main intercostal artery, and helps to supply the structures in the intercostal space and neighbouring parts. (c) The pleural branches ramify beneath the pleura, forming a plexus by anastomosing with like branches above and below. (d) The muscular branches supply the intercostals, serratus magnus, and pectoralis major and minor, and anastomose with the long and short thoracic branches of the axillary artery. (e) The lateral cutaneous branches run with the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves to the skin. (/) The mammary glandular branches are given off from the intercostal arteries in the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal spaces, and supply the mammary gland. They are of large size during lactation, and generally require a ligature in the removal of the breast. (2) The subcostal artery, or the twelfth dorsal as it is sometimes called, follows the same course as the intercostals as far as the head of the twelfth rib. It then passes in company with the twelfth dorsal nerve along the lower border of the twelfth rib, lying in front of the quadratus lumborum muscle, behind the fascia transversalis. Crossing in front of it is the thickened upper bridge-like margin of this fascia, which stretches across the quadratus and gives origin to some of the fibres of the diaphragm, and is known as the ligamentum arcuatum externum. The subcostal artery anastomoses with the lumbar arteries and external circumflex iliac artery. At the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum it passes between the abdominal muscles, and is distributed in a manner similar to that of the lumbar arteries. (3) The diaphragmatic branches are small twigs coming off from the thoracic aorta immediately above the diaphragm. They are distributed to the vertebral portion of the diaphragm on its upper surface. (4) The aberrans artery is a small twig which, arising from the thoracic aorta near the right bronchial artery, passes upwards and to the right behind the oesophagus and trachea, and is occasionally found to anastomose on the oesophagus with the arteria aberrans of the superior intercostal artery. It is regarded as the remains of the right aortic dorsal stem (fig. 345). THE ABDOMINAL AORTA The abdominal aorta (fig. 363), the continuation of the descending or thoracic aorta, begins at the aortic opening in the diaphragm opposite the lower border of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, and ends opposite the middle of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra on its left side, by dividing into the right and left common iliac arteries. It is at first centrally placed between the pillars of the diaphragm, but as it descends in front of the lumbar vertebras it leaves the middle line, and, at its bifurcation, lies a little to the left side of the spine. The spot at which the aorta bifurcates is, for all practical purposes, roughly indicated on the surface of the abdomen by a point about half an inch below and a little to the left of the um- bilicus. But the level of its bifurcation may be more accurately determined by a line drawn across the front of the abdomen from the highest point of one iliac crest to the highest point of the other. The vena cava inferior, which accompanies the abdominal aorta, lies to its right side. Below, the vein is in contact with the artery and on a somewhat posterior plane; but above, it is separated from the aorta by the right eras of the diaphragm, and in consequence of the caval opening in the diaphragm being placed further forward than the opening for the aorta, is on an anterior plane. Relations.—In front (fig. 364), the aorta is successively crossed from above downwards by the right lobe of the liver, the solar plexus, the lesser omentum, the termination of the oesophagus in the stomach, the ascending layer of the trans- verse meso-colon, the splenic vein or commencement of the vena porta, the pan- creas, the left renal vein, the third portion of the duodenum, the mesentery, the