1052 THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS (3 mm.), the dilated portion or ampulla measures about a third of an inch (8 mm.), and the terminal expansion exclusive of its fringes has a width of about a quarter to a third of an inch, the free fimbriae ranging in length from two-fifths to three-fifths (10 to 15 mm.) of an inch, while the fimbria ovarica attains an inch or even two inches (2'5 to 5 cm.). Accessory fimbriated extremities are occa- sionally met with. The direction of the oviduct traced from its uterine attachment is transversely outwards as far as the middle of the ovary; beyond this point the tube winds in a flexuous course backwards and inwards around the gland in the manner described below. Structure.—The tube has four coats—serous, cellular, muscular, and mucous. The serous coat, represented by the fold at the free border of the broad ligament, is incomplete, like that of the small intestine, the muscular tunic being uncovered by peritoneum for about one-fourth or one-fifth of its circumference along the line of attachment of the two serous laminse, and hence a rupture of the duct may lead to an escape of its contents either into the peritoneal cavity or into the interserous space. The cellular coat is a kind of adventitia, rich in vessels, and continuous with the subperitoneal tissue of the broad ligament. The muscular coat, about the sixtieth of an inch in thickness, consists of circular and longitudinal fibres; the latter for the most part sparingly distributed outside the former, but near the outer extremity of the tube appearing also as an innermost layer. The circular layer is most attenuated near the fimbriated extremity. The mucous membrane is characterised mainly by its plications. The folds are longitudinal in direction, and relatively simple in the isthmus, where the cavity appears as a stellate fissure when cut across; but in the ampulla the multiplication of surface is very complex, and in a transverse section presents a deceptive appearance of branching tubular glands within the depth of a thick mucosa. At the fimbriated extremity of the tube, the plications are continued on to the fringes. The epithelium is cylindrical and ciliated, the motion being towards the uterus. At the trumpet-shaped extremity it passes by transition into the pavement epithelium of the serous membrane. The subepithelial tissue contains a longitudinal muscularis mucosse. THE OVARIES The ovary (fig. 635) is a paired organ which projects strongly from the posterior surface of the broad ligament. Its longest diameter averages an inch and a half, its greatest breadth about three-quarters of an inch, its thickness about half an inch; and its weight is ordinarily about 100 grains. The right is usually a little larger than the left. Form, position, etc.—The typical shape resembles that of a broad almond. In anatomical preparations it appears as a horizontal appendage to the back of the broad ligament with an anterior attached border, a posterior free border, superior and inferior surfaces, an inner extremity connected with the utero-ovarian liga- ment, and an outer extremity receiving the fimbria ovarica of the Fallopian tube: it is most probable however that the position is different when the organs are in situ under normal circumstances. Symington in his examination of frozen sections in children found the ovary lying in a sagittal plane against the side wall of the pelvis with its long axis nearly vertical, so that its surfaces were internal and external, its borders anterior and posterior, and its extremities upper and lower, while the Fallopian tube ran upwards along the anterior attached border of the gland, then arching backwards above its upper extremity to end in the fimbria?; and where the fimbriae are fully developed they may embrace the posterior free border, and thus the tube is wound almost completely around the gland, leaving only the lateral surfaces exposed. The external surface is said to lie against the