1199 THE FOOT sponding to the calcaneocuboid joint, just midway between the tip of the external malleolus and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. In Lisfranc's, or Hey's, or the tarso-metatarsal amputation, the bases of the fifth and first metatarsals must be defined. The first of these can always be detected, even in a stout or swollen foot; on the inner side the joint between the internal cuneiform and the first metatarsal bone lies an inch and a half in front of the scaphoid tubercle. In opening the joint between the second metatarsal and the middle cuneiform, its position (the base of the former bone projecting upwards on to a level one-third or one-fourth of an inch above the others), and the way in which it is locked in between its fellows and the cuneiform bones, must be remembered. In marking out the flaps for the amputation of the great toe, the large size of the head of the first metatarsal, and the importance of leaving this so as not to diminish its supporting power and the treading width of the foot, and thus of marking out flaps sufficiently long and large, must be borne in mind. In amputa- tion of the other toes, the line of their metatarso-phalangeal joints lies a full inch above the web. Bursae and synovial membranes.—The synovial sheath of the extensor Fig. 763.—Vertical Section through the Cuneiform and Cuboid Bones. (One half.) Dorsalis pedis vessels and NERVE Extensor proprius hallueis INTERNAL CUNEIFORM MIDDLE CUNEIFORM EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM Extensor brevis digitorum Dorsal aponeurosis CUBOID Peroneus tertius Abductor hallueis Internal plantar vessels and NERVE Abductor hallueis Flexor longus hallueis Plantar fascia Plexor longus digitorum Abductor minimi digiti External plantar vessels and NER VE Tendon of peroneus longus Flexor brevis digitorum proprius hallueis extends from the front of the ankle, over the instep, as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe. There is generally a bursa over the instep, above, or it may be below, the tendon. There is often an irregular bursa between the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and the projecting end of the astragalus over which the tendons play. There is much friction here. It is well to be aware that this bursa sometimes communicates with the joint of the head of the astragalus (Holden). There is a deep synovial bursa between the tendo Achillis and the calcaneum. Numerous other bursse may appear over any of the bony points in the foot, especially when they are rendered over-prominent by morbid conditions. Synovial membranes.—In addition to that of the ankle-joint, there are six synovial membranes in the tarsus, viz.:—(1) Posterior calcaneo-astragaloid, peculiar to these bones; (2) anterior calcaneo-astragaloid, common to these bones and the scaphoid; (3) between the calcaneum and the cuboid; (4) between the cuboid and the outer two metatarsals; (5) between the internal cuneiform and the first metatarsal; (6) a complicated and extensive one, which branches out between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones; between the cuneiforms; between the external cuneiform and the cuboid; between the middle and outer cuneiform and the second