THE VEINS 608 the lower thoracic vertebrae as high as the eighth, where it turns obliquely to the right, and, crossing in front of the spinal column behind the aorta and the oesopha- gus, opens into the vena azygos major. In its course it crosses over three or four of the lower left intercostal arteries, and is covered by the pleura. Tributaries.—(1) The lower four left intercostal veins; (2) the left subcostal vein; (3) the lower end of the third azygos vein (sometimes); (4) small left medi- astinal veins; and (5) the lower left oesophageal veins. The vena azygos tertia (also called the upper left azygos and vena hemi- azygos accessoria) varies considerably in size, position, and arrangement, and is often absent. It lies in the posterior mediastinum by the left side of the bodies of the fifth, sixth, and seventh thoracic vertebrae, and is more or less vertical in direction. It is continued above into the lower left superior intercostal vein, and below either joins the vena azygos minor, or passes obliquely across the sixth or seventh thoracic vertebra to join the vena azygos major. The intercostal veins intervening between it and the vena azygos minor then open directly across the spine into the vena azygos major. It crosses the corresponding left intercostal arteries, and is covered by the pleura. Tributaries.—(1) The fifth, sixth, and sometimes the seventh intercostal veins; (2) the lower end of the lower left superior intercostal vein; (3) the upper end of the vena azygos minor (sometimes); and (4) the left bronchial vein. The intercostal veins.—The intercostal veins are eleven in number on each side, and correspond with the intercostal arteries. The last thoracic vein is here called the subcostal, and is described separately (page 609). There is one vein to each intercostal artery, the vein lying above the artery whilst in the intercostal space. Each vein is joined by a dorsal tributary which runs with the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery between the transverse process of the vertebra? and the neck of the rib. The dorsal tributaries return the blood from the muscles of the back, and receive communicating branches from the dorsal spinal plexus and from the spinal veins through the intervertebral foramina. The intercostal veins also receive small tributaries from the bodies of the vertebras. The termination of the inter- costal veins is different on the two sides, and is seldom alike in any two consecu- tive subjects. On the right side.—The first intercostal vein (the upper right superior intercostal vein) ascends with the superior intercostal artery, a branch of the subclavian, to end either in the vertebral vein just before the latter joins the right innominate vein, or in the right innominate direct. The second intercostal vein either joins with the first, and opens with it as a common trunk into the vertebral or innominate vein, or it joins with the third or with the third and fourth to open into the vena azygos major as the latter is arching over the root of the right lung. This vein is known as the lower right superior intercostal vein. The fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh right intercostal veins join the vena azygos major. The upper of these have well-marked valves where they join the azygos vein. In the lower veins these valves are imperfect. All the intercostal veins are provided with valves in their course between the muscles. On the left side the first intercostal vein also follows the superior intercostal artery from the subclavian, and ascends to join the left vertebral or left innominate vein, and is known as the upper left superior intercostal vein. The second intercostal vein either joins the first, and opens with it as a common trunk into the left vertebral or left innominate vein, or joins the third and fourth, as described below, to form the lower left superior intercostal vein. Tbe third and fourth, and sometimes the second, intercostal veins unite to form a single trunk, the lower left superior intercostal vein, which passes upwards across the arch of the aorta, and opens into the left innominate vein. This vein usually communicates at its lower end with the third azygos vein, but at times crosses the spine, and enters directly the vena azygos major. A fibrous cord can frequently be traced from it through the vestigial fold of the pericardium to the oblique vein of Marshall (page 605). The fifth and sixth, and sometimes the seventh, intercostal veins either end in the third azygos vein, or, if this is absent, cross the spine, and open directly into the vena azygos major. The eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, and sometimes the seventh, intercostal veins join the vena azygos minor.