THE MAXILLA 57 The anterior palatine fossa is situated in the meso-palatine suture near its anterior termination. In its typical form the fossa contains four passages: two are small and disposed one hehind the other exactly in the suture; these are the foramina of Scarpa for the naso-palatine nerves, the left nerve emerging from the anterior foramen. The lateral and larger orifices diverge to open on each side of the crest. They are called Stenson's canals, and lodge recesses of the nasal mucous membrane and remnants of Jacobson's organs. The alveolar ridge forms the outer limit of this surface; it is crescentic in shape, spongy in texture, and presents cavities in which teeth are lodged. When the teeth are complete in number, eight cavities are present; of these the pit for the canine tooth is the deepest, those for the molars are the widest and present subdivisions. Along the outer aspect of the alveolar border the buccinator arises as far forwards as the first molar tooth. The nasal process is somewhat triangular, rising vertically from the nasal angle of the maxilla. Its outer surface gives attachment to the orbicularis palpe- brarum, the tendo oculi, and the levator labii superioris alseque nasi. The internal surface forms one of the lateral boundaries of the nasal fossa. Superiorly it articulates with the frontal; below this is the superior turbinated crest for articu- lation with the middle turbinal. The space between this and the inferior turbin- ated crest forms part of the middle meatus. The anterior border articulates with the nasal bone; the posterior is thick and vertically grooved to form part of the Fig. 69.—The Maxilla at Bieth. premaxillary portion I Outer view. Inferior view. Inner view. nasal duct. The inner margin of this groove articulates with the lachrymal bone. The point where the outer margin of the groove joins the orbital plate is indicated by the lachrymal tubercle. The malar process is rough and triangular, and forms the summit of the ridge of bone separating the facial and zygomatic surfaces. It articulates with the malar bone, and from its inferior angle a few fibres of the masseter take origin. The antrum or maxillary sinus, as the air-chamber occupying the body of the bone is called, is somewhat pyramidal in shape; the base being represented by the nasal or internal surface, and the apex corresponding to the malar process. In addition to these it has four walls: the superior is formed by the orbital plate, and the inferior by the alveolar ridge. The anterior wall corresponds to the facial sur- face of the maxilla, and the posterior is formed by the zygomatic surface. The inner boundary or base presents a very irregular orifice at its posterior part; this is partially filled in by the vertical plate of the palate bone, the uncinate process of the ethmoid, the maxillary process of the inferior turbinal, and a small portion of the lachrymal bone. Even when these bones are in situ, the nasal orifice is very irregular in shape, and requires the mucous membrane to form the definite rounded aperture (or apertures, for they are often multiple) known as the opening of the antrum. The cavity of the antrum varies considerably in size and shape. In the young, it is small and the walls are thick: as life advances, the antrum enlarges at the expense of its walls, and in old age they are often of extreme tenuity; occasionally the cavity extends into the substance of the malar bone. The floor of