856 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE As regards length, the muscular belly of the superior rectus has the longest course, and the others diminish in the order—internal, external, and inferior rectus. The external rectus is supplied by the sixth nerve. The other three recti muscles are all supplied by the third nerve. » The levator palpebral superioris courses along the roof of the orbit close to the periosteum for the greater part of its course, partially overlapping the superior rectus; it finally descends through the orbital fat, and widens out to be inserted into the root of the upper lid. It may be briefly described as being inserted in two distinct layers separated by a horizontal interval. The upper or anterior layer of insertion is fibrous, and passes in front of the tarsus, where it comes into relation with fibres of the orbicularis. The lower layer consists of smooth muscle (Muller's superior palpebral muscle) and is inserted along the upper border of the tarsus. The levator has also connections with the sheath of the superior rectus. These different insertions of the muscle will be referred to later along with the description of the orbital fasciae and of the upper eyelid. It gets its nervous supply from the third nerve, but the smooth muscle developed in its lower layer of insertion is sup- plied by the sympathetic nervous system. As its name expresses, its action is to raise the upper lid and to support it while the eye is open. The superior oblique runs forward close to the inner part of the orbital roof until it reaches the fossa trochlearis near the internal angular process, where it becomes tendinous and passes through a fibro-cartilaginous pulley attached to the fossa just named. On passing through this pulley, or trochlea, the tendon bends Fig. 483.—Diagrammatic Kepresentation of Origins of Ocular Muscles at the Apex of the Eight Orbit. (After Schwalbe, slightly altered.) Superior rectus FOURTH NERVE Levator palpebrae Buperioris Lachrymal and frontal vein Origin of external rectus from fibrous bridge over sphenoidal fissure Naso-ciliary of fifth nerve SIXTH NER VE External rectus Superior oblique - OPTIC FORAMEN AND NERVE Internal rectus Inferior rectus THIRD NER VE at an angle of 50°, running backwards and outwards under the superior rectus to its insertion into the sclerotic. It is supplied by the fourth nerve. The inferior oblique arises from the front of the orbit, about the junction of its inner and lower walls, just external to the lower end of the lachrymal groove. It runs, in a sloping direction, outwards and backwards, lying at first between the inferior rectus and the orbital floor, then between the external rectus and the globe; finally it ascends slightly, to be inserted by a short tendon into the sclerotic at the back of the eye. Its nervous supply is derived from the third nerve. The precise manner of insertion of the different ocular muscles has been described above in our Examination op the Eyeball. (For Muscles of the Eyelids and Eyebrows, see pages 429 and following.) Action of the ocular muscles.—While rotating the globe so that the corneals turned in different directions, the ocular muscles do not alter the position of the eyeball in the orbit either laterally, vertically, or antero-posteriorly. In speaking, therefore, of the eye being moved upwards, or outwards, etc., it is the altered position of the cornea or front of the eye that we mean to express; it is manifest that, if the cornea moves up, the back of the eyeball must simultaneously be depressed, and similarly with other movements. All the movements of the globe take place by rota- tion, on axes passing through the centre. Though the possible axes are numerous in combined muscular action, there are three principal axes of rotation of the eye- ball, and in reference to these the action of individual muscles must be described. Two of these axes are horizontal, and one vertical; they all pass through the centre