937 THE HEART the heart (interventricular), around which it sends branches to anastomose with the right coronary; whilst the other winds to the back of the heart in the auriculo- ventricular groove, to anastomose after division with the corresponding twigs of the right artery. In this course it gives off a branch which descends near the left border of the heart (left marginal), as well as smaller branches to the left auricle, both ventricles, and the commencement of the aorta and pulmonary vessels. The cardiac or coronary veins accompany the coronary arteries and return the blood from the walls of the heart. The (so-called ) great cardiac vein ascends in the anterior interventricular sul- cus, passing round the left side of the heart to its posterior surface in the auriculo- ventricular groove to terminate in the commencement of the coronary sinus. Its mouth is usually guarded by two valves, and it receives in its course the left Fig. 556.—Posterior View of the Heart, showing its Arteries and Veins. Right carotid artery Left carotid artery Left subclavian artery Aorta Ductus arteriosus Pulmonary artery Left pulmonary veins LEFT AURICLE Left coronary artery Left marginal artery Oblique vein of Marshall Left marginal vein PERICARDIUM Coronary sinus Posterior cardiac vein Anterior interventricular branch of left coronary Innominate artery Vena cava superior Right pulmonary veins RIGHT AURICLE Vena cava inferior Right coronary artery Posterior interventricular vein Posterior interventricular branch of right coronary marginal vein, with other smaller veins from the left auricle (the left auricular) and ventricle, all of which are guarded by valves. The posterior cardiac vein ( posterior interventricular ), sometimes the larger of the two chief veins, communicates with the foregoing at its commencement on the anterior surface above the heart's apex. It ascends in the posterior interventricular groove, receiving blood from the ventricular walls, and joins the coronary sinus, through an orifice guarded by a single valve, close to its termination. The anterior cardiac veins ( preventricular) consist of several small branches from the front of the right ventricle, which open separately into the right auricle, or into the right auricular vein; and a right marginal vein (vein of Galen), which joins the coronary sinus near its termination, or opens separately into the lower part of the right auricle (Figs. 549, 555). The coronary sinus may be regarded as a much dilated terminal portion of the great cardiac vein. It is about an inch in length, covered by muscular fibres from