150 THE SKELETON of the inner lip. The adductor longus and brevis are inserted into the intervening space; the adductor longus takes rather more than the middle third, and overlaps the lower part of the adductor brevis, which takes rather more than the upper third. The outer lip in its lower two-thirds gives origin to the shorter head of the biceps. The condylar lines are two in number; the outer is continuous with the outer lip of the linea aspera and terminates inferiorly on the outer edge of the external condyle. From the upper half of this line a part of the short head of the biceps arises. Near its termination the line expands to give origin to the plantaris and the outer head of the gastrocnemius. The inner condylar line is not so promi- nent as the outer; it is continuous with the inner lip of the linea aspera, and terminates at the adductor tubercle. The adductor magnus is inserted into the whole length of the line and to the tubercle. Near the middle of the line there is an interruption where the femoral artery passes through the opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. The inner head of the gastrocnemius arises from the femur immediately above the internal condyle. The space enclosed between these diverging lines forms part of the anterior boundary of the popliteal space, and is in close relation with the popliteal vessels. The shaft of the femur is overlapped on Fig. 160.—The Femur at Birth. the inner side by the vastus internus, and on the outer side it gives origin in the upper three-fourths to the crureus and is overlapped by the vastus externus. The upper three-fourths of the anterior surface serves for the origin oi the crureus, and the lower fourth gives attachment to the subcrureus. The lower extremity presents two cartilage-covered condyles, separated by a deep notch. The external condyle is more prominent anteriorly and wider than its fellow. The internal is more prominent posteriorly, and narrower; it is also longer, to compensate for the obliquity of the shaft. When the femur is properly articulated, the inferior surfaces of the condyles are nearly on the same plane, and almost parallel to come into contact with the articular surfaces on the head of the tibia. Posteriorly the condyles are separated by a deep pit or notch; anteriorly they are united by an articular surface, over which the patella glides. The inner surface of the internal condyle has, near its posterior border, a rough surface for the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint; above this is the adductor tubercle. The surface of this condyle, which bounds the intercondyloid notch, affords attachment, near the anterior border, to the posterior crucial ligament. The surface of the external condyle which bounds the notch gives attachment, at its posterior