LYMPHATICS OF ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 6G1 the anus follow the course of the perinseal lymphatics through the fork to the inner- most superficial inguinal glands. The superficial lymphatics of the penis begin in the prepuce, and thence pass backwards to the corona glandis, where they form a ring around the glans. This ring receives the superficial lymphatics from the glans, and the lymphatics from the anterior two-thirds of the urethra which run from behind forwards. From the glans three main lymphatic channels run backwards under the integuments of the penis, one on the dorsum, and one on each side of the organ. At the root of the penis the dorsal lymphatic vessel divides into a right and a left branch, each branch passing with the lateral lymphatic vessel of the corresponding side to the superficial inguinal glands. The deep lymphatics of the penis pass with the dorsal vein into the pelvis, where they join the lymphatic glands about the internal iliac artery. The lymphatics of the scrotum in the male, and of the parts corresponding thereto in the female, and the lymphatics of the other external generative organs in the female, run with the superficial external pudic arteries to the superficial inguinal glands. It will be-noted that the lymphatics of the testicle pass with the spermatic artery to the lumbar glands. The superficial lymphatics of the perinseum run upwards over the adductor muscles, through the fork between the thighs, and join the superficial inguinal glands. (2) The deep parietal lymphatics.—The deep lymphatics of the anterior and lateral abdominal walls accompany the parietal vessels to the back of the abdomen, where they end in the deep glands. Thus some follow the deep epigastric artery to the external iliac glands; others the deep circumflex iliac artery also to the external iliac glands; and others, again, the ilio-lumbar and lumbar arteries to the lateral lumbar glands. The last are also joined by the lymphatics from the muscles of the back and from the spinal cord. The deep lymphatics from the upper part of the abdominal wall pass, with the superior epigastric artery, into the thorax, where they end in the internal mammary lymphatic glands. The deep lymphatics of the pelvic walls accompany the parietal vessels, and hence are found with the obturator, sciatic, gluteal, pudic, and sacral arteries. They end in the glands surrounding the internal iliac artery, and in the sacral glands. 2. The parietal lymphatic glands lie, for the most part, along the back of the abdomen and pelvis, and are known, from their position, as the external iliac, internal iliac, sacral, lumbar, and cceliac glands. The external iliac lymphatic glands lie along the course of the external iliac and common iliac arteries and veins. They are three to five or more in number. They receive the lymphatics from the inguinal glands and femoral glands, and the deep lymphatic vessels accompanying the deep epigastric and deep circum- flex iliac arteries and veins from the anterior and lower abdominal walls. Their efferent vessels join the lumbar glands. They communicate with the internal iliac glands. The internal iliac glands are situated in the course of the internal iliac artery and its branches. They vary from nine to twelve or more in number, the largest being situated at the upper part of the great sciatic foramen. They receive the lymphatics from the muscles of the pelvis and the lymphatics corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac artery. Thus the greater number of the lymphatics from the pelvic viscera, from the deeper parts of the perinteum, and from the hinder and deeper parts of the scrotum or labia majora, the deep lymphatics of the penis and posterior part of the urethra, the deep lymphatics from the gluteal region, and some of the lymphatics from the adductor muscles of the upper part of the thigh, join these glands. Their efferent vessels pass to the lumbar glands. The sacral glands are situated in the hollow of the sacrum, four or five being placed in the meso-rectal folds opposite its promontory. They receive the lym- phatics from the rectum and the hinder walls of the pelvis. They join the lumbar glands. The lumbar glands lie beneath the peritoneum, at the back of the abdomen, on the front and sides of the lumbar vertebrae. They are usually divided into three groups, a median and two lateral; but these freely communicate with one another across the aorta and vena cava.