815 EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE trunk. One of these, the external cutaneous nerve, which contains fibres from the fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves is distributed to the skin cover- ing the outer and upper part of the leg. The other branch, the nervus commu- nicans peronei or fibularis, containing fibres from the same roots, runs downwards and inwards beneath the deep fascia, and joins the nervus communicans tibialis to form the external or short saphenous nerve (page 817). (3) The recurrent articular nerve ends principally in the upper part of the tibialis anticus muscle. A few fine filaments accompany the anterior tibial recur- rent artery to the front of the knee-joint, some pass the superior tibio-fibular articu- lation, and others to the head of the tibia. (4) The musculo-cutaneous nerve, containing fibres from the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first sacral nerves, is directed downwards through the substance of the peroneus longus, and is afterwards placed between the peronei and extensor longus digitorum. Having given off branches to supply these muscles, it divides into an external and an internal branch; these branches pierce the deep fascia in the line of the intermuscular septum between the peronei and the extensor group of muscles. The external branch runs'downwards, in front of the anterior annular ligament, and divides into the following branches: a twig which communicates with the short saphenous; a branch which divides to supply the adjacent sides of the fourth and fifth toes; and a branch which communicates with the internal division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The internal branch crosses the anterior annular ligament about an inch to the inner side of the external branch, and divides into four branches: the first of these communicates with the external branch, forming with it a nerve which bifurcates to supply the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes; the second divides to be distributed to the contiguous sides of the second and third toes; the third communicates with the internal terminal branch of the anterior tibial at the cleft between the great and second toes; and the fourth supplies the inner border of the great toe. In their course across the dorsum of the foot the branches of the musculo- cutaneous nerve pass beneath the dorsal venous arch, and from the two main divi- sions of the nerve a number of collateral twigs are given off, which supply the integument of the lower part of the front of the leg and the dorsum of the foot. (5) The anterior tibial nerve, formed from fibres of the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first sacral nerves, pierces the intermuscular septum between the peronei and extensors, and, having traversed the upper fibres of the extensor longus digitorum, runs downwards on the interosseous membrane between the last-named muscle and the tibialis anticus; lower down it is placed between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus hallucis. It crosses beneath the extensor longus hallucis, passes under cover of the anterior annular ligament, and terminates in front of the bend of the ankle by dividing into an external and an internal branch. In this course it is placed external to the anterior tibial artery in the upper third of the leg; it lies on the anterior surface of that vessel in the middle third, and in the remainder of its course it is again external to the artery. Branches.—In addition to the two terminal branches above mentioned, the anterior tibial nerve gives off an articular twig to the ankle-joint, and branches to supply the tibialis anticus, extensor longus hallucis, extensor longus digitorum, and peroneus tertius. The branches destined for the two latter muscles arise in common, and take the form of a long slender nerve which runs along the inner side of the muscles, supplying them with numerous twigs. The external branch is directed outwards under cover of the extensor brevis digitorum, and, having supplied that muscle, ends in twigs which are distributed to the tarsal articulations. This nerve presents a gangliform enlargement near its commencement, thus resembling the posterior interosseous nerve in the superior extremity, and from its terminal branches filaments pass to the interosseous spaces, where they anastomose with branches of the external plantar nerve and supply the tarso-metatarsal articulations and one or more dorsal interossei muscles. The internal branch is directed forwards towards the interval between the first and second toes, where it is joined by a twig from the musculo-cutaneous, and then divides to supply the contiguous margins of the above-mentioned toes. In its course on the dorsum pedis it lies to the outer side of the dorsal artery of the foot,