THE NOSE 891 In this tissue are embedded several extremely thin and irregular cartilages named sesamoid, and above these commonly a pair still smaller, called accessory quadrate. The septal cartilage fills in the triangular interval of the bony septum. The anterior border is attached to the nasal bones at their junction below the crest. Beyond it presents a shallow groove, the borders of which are at first continuous with the upper lateral cartilages, as already described. This groove becomes narrowed by the gradual approximation of its borders, which ultimately meet in a faint transverse ridge below. Still lower, it dips for a short distance between the inner plates of the lower lateral cartilages, which meet beyond it to form the tip of the nose. The posterior border is connected with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, whilst its inferior is attached to the vomer, which is often channelled like the ethmoid plate to receive it. The anterior part of the lower border is attached to the anterior nasal spine. The cartilage does not simply dip into the groove which is more or less marked on the upper surface of the nasal spine, but broadens out to obtain the widest possible, though somewhat lax, attachment to it. Viewed from below, it appears to embrace the spine. The border of its rounded angle in front is somewhat thickened before terminating in a thin smooth edge. It is extremely thin near the centre. The shape of the septal cartilage varies in relation to the extent of ossification in the bony septum, and even in the adult a strip of cartilage may extend for a varying distance backwards and upwards between the vomer and ethmoid, some- times even reaching the body of the sphenoid bone. It may be here noted that the sej^tum of the nose is almost always straight in children and in aboriginal skulls (eighty per cent. ); but in Europeans it is deflected to one or other side in the proportion of three out of every four. Jacobsonian cartilages.—In the septal cartilage above the opening of Stenson's canal there is a small pouch which presents a minute opening below. This is the representative of the so-called Jacobsonian organ. A strip of cartilage underneath this, firmly adherent, but distinct from the septal cartilage, is known as the Jacob- sonian cartilage. Muscles.—The muscles are seven in number, and may be grouped as dilators and constrictors. The latter are comparatively feeble in their action. The dilators.—The pyramidalis nasi is a downward prolongation of the occipito-frontalis. Each muscle descends on the side of the nose, to blend, after becoming tendinous, with the compressor nasi. They diverge from one another as they pass downwards. The levator labii superioris alaeque nasi arises from the nasal process of the maxilla.