67 HYOID BONE AND STYLOID PROCESS Ligaments :— Thyrohyoid. Stylohyoid; and the thyro-hyoid membrane. Blood-supply.—The hyoid receives twigs from the arteries supplying the muscles attached to it, in addition to direct supply from the superior thyroid and lingual arteries. Ossification.—At the third month the hyoid consists of hyaline cartilage; it is directly continuous with the styloid process. In the fourth month, a nucleus appears on each side of the middle line; they become quickly confluent to form the body of the bone. In the fifth month each greater cornu has a conspicuous nucleus. The centres for the lesser cornua are delayed until the second year. The greater cornua remain separate from the body until after middle life. The lesser cornua rarely ankylose with the body of the bone. As a rule, they are small and inconspicuous; occasionally they are very long, and are sometimes continuous Avith the styloid process of their respective sides. The styloid process is a thin cylindrical spike of bone wedged in between the tympanic plate and the petrosal immediately anterior to the stylo-mastoid foramen. It consists of two parts: a tympano-hyal segment which in the adult is hidden behind the tympanic plate, and a free projecting portion of variable length. As a rule it varies from five to fifty millimetres. When short it is hidden by the vaginal process, but it may reach to the hyoid bone. Its base forms the anterior boundary of the stylo-mastoid foramen. The free portion gives origin to the following muscles: The stylo-pharyngeus arises from the base posteriorly; the stylo-hyoid from the outer aspect near the middle; and the stylo-glossus from the front near the tip. The extremity of the process is continuous with the stylo-hyoid ligament. A band of fibrous tissue—the stylo-mandibular ligament—passes from the process below the origin of the stylo-glossus to the angle of the mandible. Muscles attached to the styloid process :— Ligaments :— The morphology and development of this process are described on page 90. The malleus.—This is the most external of the auditory ossicles, and comes in relation with the tympanic membrane. Its upper portion, or head, is lodged in the attic of the tympanum. It is of rounded shape, and presents posteriorly an elliptical depression for articulation with the incus. Below the head is a constricted portion or neck. From beneath the neck three processes diverge. The largest is the handle or manubrium, which is slightly twisted and flattened. It forms an obtuse angle with the head of the bone, and lies between the membrana tympani and the mucous membrane covering its inner surface. The tensor tympani tendon is inserted into the manubrium near its junction with the neck on the inner side. The slender process (gracilis or Folian) is a long, slender, delicate spiculum of bone (rarely seen of full length except in the foetus), projecting nearly at right angles to the anterior aspect of the neck, and extending obliquely downwards. It lies in the Glaserian fissure, and in the adult usually becomes converted into connective tissue, except a small basal stump. The short process is a conical projection from the outer aspect of the base of the manubrium. Its apex is connected to the upper part of the tympanic membrane, and its base receives the external ligament of the malleus. The malleus also gives attachment to the suspensory ligament, and to the long anterior ligament of the malleus which was formerly described as the laxator tympani muscle. The incus.—This bone is situated between the malleus externally, and the stapes internally. It presents for examination a body and two processes. The body is deeply excavated anteriorly for the reception of the head of the malleus. The short process projects backwards, and is connected by means of ligamentous fibres to the posterior wall of the tympanum, near the entrance to the mastoid .antrum. The long process is slender, and directed downwards and inwards; it Stylo-glossus. Stylo-hyoid. Stylo-pharyngeus. Stylo-hyoid. Stylo-mandibular.