1112 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY descends in an almost straight line as far as the sixth chondro-sternal joint. The left is deeply notched (incisura cardiaca). The lower borders of the lung pass downwards and outwards across the sides of the chest from the sixth chondro- sternal joint to the tenth thoracic spine. In the nipple-line the lung reaches the sixth rib, in the posterior fold of the axilla, the eighth, and opposite the angle of the scapula (the arms being close to the sides), the tenth rib. Tims, to map out the lung, a line should be drawn from the apex, a point about an inch and a half above the first rib, a little outside the sterno-mastoid muscle, obliquely inwards, behind the sterno-clavicular joint, to near the centre of the junction of the first and second bones of the sternum. Thence, on each side, a line should be drawn slightly con- vex as far as a similar point on the sternum lying opposite the articulation of the fourth chondro-sternal joint. On the right side the line may be dropped as low as the sixth chondro-sternal joint; on the left (to show the incisura cardiaca) a line should be drawn sloping outwards from the fourth chondro-sternal articulation along the lower border of the fourth rib, across the fourth interspace, to a point about an inch and a half below the left nipple (male) and an inch to its inner side. This point, lying in the fifth space, marks the apex of the heart. The lower border of the lung will be marked on the right side by a line drawn from the sixth chondro- Fig. 684.—Diagram of the Relations of the Thoeacic Visceea to the "Walls of the Chest. (Bellamy.) Superior cul-de-sac of right lung ■ RIGHT AURICLE RIGHT AURICULAR APPENDAGE Right auriculo-veutricular orifice Limit of diaphragm in com- plete respiration Limit of the anterior and in- ferior border of right lung in complete expiration Limit of right lung in inspiration Limit of diaphragm in com- plete inspiration Limit of pleura .Superior eul-de-sac of left lung LEFT AURICLE Pulmonary orifice Left auriculo-ventricular orifice Orifice of aorta Limit of diaphragm in complete expiration Limit of the anterior and infe- rior border of left lung in complete expiration Limit of left lung in inspiration -- Limit of pleura sternal articulation across the side of the chest down to the tenth thoracic spine. The lower border of the left lung will follow a similar line, starting on a level with a simi- lar joint (sixth chondro-sternal joint), but much farther out than on the right side, i.e. in the fifth space, about three inches to the left of the middle line, or a point corre- sponding to the heart's apex. This margin of the lung descends about an inch and a half in deep inspiration, according to Gocllee. The position of the great fissure in each lung may be ascertained approximately by drawing a line from the second thora- cic spine to the sixth rib in the nipple line; and the smaller fissure of the right lung extends from the middle of the foregoing to the junction of the fourth costal car- tilage with the sternum. It will be seen from the above that there is little lung behind the manubrium. The connective tissue here between the lung margins contains up to puberty the thymus, and, later, its remains. The pleura reaches lower down than the lung. Thus its lower margin reaches along the seventh rib cartilage near the sternum; in the axillary line it has reached the lower margin of the ninth rib; farther back it reaches as low as the twelfth rib, or the eleventh tho- racic spine. Thus it may be opened in operations in the loin, e.g. on the kidney, or in removing the twelfth rib. Mr. Holden thus draws attention to this lower level of the pleura: 'Since the pleura lines the inside of the last rib, a musket-ball or