194 THE ARTICULATIONS and others are deeper, and extend only from one vertebra to the next but one below. The dentated or broader portions (fig. 202) are formed by oblique fibres which, springing from the bodies near the intervertebral foramina, take a curved course downwards and backwards over an intervertebral substance, and reach the narrow portion of the ligament on the centre of the vertebra next below; they then diverge to pass over another intervertebral disc to end on the body of the vertebra beyond, near the intervertebral notch. They thus pass over two discs and three vertebrae. Deeper still are other fibres thickening these expansions of the common ligament, and extending from one bone to the next. The last well-marked expansion is situated between the first two segments of the sacrum: below this, the ligament becomes a delicate central band with rudi- mentary expansions, being more pronounced again over the sacro-coccygeal joint, and losing itself in the ligamentous tissue at the back of the coccyx. The dura mater is tightly attached to it at the occipital bone and margin of the foramen magnum, but is separated from it in the rest of its extent by loose cellular tissue. The filum terminale becomes blended with it at the lower part of the sacrum and back of the coccyx. The lateral or short vertebral ligaments (fig. 200) consist of numerous short fibres situated between the anterior and posterior common ligaments, and passing from one vertebra over the intervertebral disc, to which it is firmly adherent, to the next vertebra below. The more superficial fibres are more or less vertical, but the deeper decussate and have a crucial arrangement. They are connected with the deep surface of the anterior common ligament, and so tie it to the edges of the bodies of the vertebrae and to the intervertebral discs. They blend behind with the expansions of the posterior common ligament, and so complete the casing round each amphiarthrodial joint. In the thoracic region, they overlie the stellate liga- ment, and in the lumbar they radiate towards the transverse processes. In the cervical region they are less well marked. (b) The Ligaments connecting the Articular Processes Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The capsular ligaments (fig. 194) which unite these processes are composed partly of yellow elastic tissue, and partly of white fibrous tissue. In the cervical region only the inner side of the capsule is formed by the ligamenta subflava, which in the thoracic and lumbar regions, however, extend anteriorly to the margins of the intervertebral foramina. The part formed of white fibrous tissue consists of short, well-marked fibres, which in the cervical region pass obliquely downwards and forwards over the joint, between the articular processes and the posterior roots of the transverse processes of two contiguous vertebrae. In the thoracic region the fibres are shorter, and vertical in direction, and are attached to the bases of the transverse processes; in the lumbar, they are obliquely transverse. The capsular ligaments in the cervical region are the most lax, those in the lumbar region are rather tighter, and those in the thoracic region are the tightest. There is one synovial membrane to each capsule. (c) The Ligaments uniting the Laminae The ligamenta subflava (fig. 203) are shallow plates of closely-woven yellow elastic tissue, interposed between the laminae of two adjacent vertebra?. The first connects the axis with the third cervical, and the last the fifth lumbar with the sacrum. Each ligament extends from the inner and posterior edge of the ^inter- vertebral foramen on one side to a corresponding point on the other; above, it is attached close to the inner margin of the inferior articular process and to a well- marked ridge on the inner surface of the laminae as far as the root of the spine; below, it is fixed close to the inner margin of the superior articular process and to the dorsal aspect of the upper edge of the laminae. Thus each, besides filling up