411 SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR the middle layer of the lumbar fascia separates it from the erector spinas, and along its inner border are placed the intertransversales. The transversalis fascia, which lines the interior of the muscular portion of the abdominal parietes, is a thin layer of connective tissue. It is best marked in the lower part of the front of the abdomen, where some of the muscular and aponeurotic layers are deficient. Below, it is attached to the inner border of the whole length of the crest of the ilium, and to the outer half of Poupart's ligament, where it blends with the iliac fascia covering the iliacus muscle. Beneath the inner half of Poupart's ligament it is somewhat thickened, and called the deep crural arch. This is but loosely attached to Poupart's ligament, and the fascia is continued into the thigh, where it forms the front of the sheath of the femoral vessels. Internally to this, it is attached to the free margin of Gimbernat's ligament, and behind to the ilio-pectineal line. Further inwards it is inserted along the posterior border of the crest of the pubes. At the back of the linea alba it is continuous with the fascia of the opposite side. Behind the lower part of the rectus muscle it is thickened, and takes the place of the posterior portion of the sheath from the pubes to the fold of Douglas. Above, it becomes thin and blends with the fascia covering the under surface of the diaphragm; and behind, it is lost in the loose fat which covers the posterior surface of the kidneys, together with the back of the ascending and descending colon. About half an inch (l-2 cm.) above Poupart's ligament, half way between the anterior superior spine and the symphysis pubis, it is perforated by the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. To the margins of the opening, which is called the internal abdominal ring, is attached a tubular pro- longation, the infundibuliform fascia, which invests the cord or round ligament. The connection of this tube to the rest of the fascia may be compared to the attach- ment of the sleeve to a coat. No opening is therefore visible from the exterior until the sleeve-like tube has been divided. 3IUSCLES OF THE BACK The first and second layers have already been described, as they belong to the groups of muscles which pass from the thorax to. the bones of the upper extremity. The third layer consists of muscles which stretch in a nearly transverse direction from the spinous processes of the vertebra? to the back of the ribs, viz. the serratus posticus superior and the serratus posticus inferior. Third Layer 1. SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR The serratus posticus superior—named from its saw-like edge and its relation to the other serrati—is a quadrilateral sheet with a toothed outer margin. Origin.—(1) The outer surface of the lower part of the ligamentum nucha? near its posterior edge; (2) the spines of the last cervical and first two thoracic vertebrae, and the supraspinous ligament connecting them. Insertion.—The upper borders and outer surfaces of the second to the fifth ribs, external to their angles. Structure.—The inner half is a tendinous sheet, the fibres of which run down- wards and outwards, and when they have passed beyond the line of the transverse processes they become fleshy and are inserted into the ribs by the lower borders of the four teeth into which the muscle divides.