THE TESTICLES 1029 in front of the external iliac vein, enters the pelvis (pelvic stage) close to the ilio- pubic suture, and runs downwards and backwards over the side of the bladder, crossing it on the vesical side of the obliterated hypogastric artery and ureter, to reach the side of the posterior wall of the viscus. Here it lies between the bladder and the second stage of the rectum, and, becoming enlarged and sacculated, passes downwards and inwards towards the base of the prostate, where it narrows and is joined by the lower end of the vesicula seminalis. The common tube descends as the ejaculatory duct, to pierce the prostatic fissure and open into the prostatic portion of the urethra. The two vasa deferentia, where they lie in front of the rectum, are separated by a triangular interval, the apex of which is formed by the approximation of the ejaculatory ducts, and lies immediately above the prostate. The whole of the pelvic portion of the vas is subperitoneal except near its termina- tion, where it is invested only by recto-vesical fascia and an extension of subperi- toneal tissue. Fig. 625.—Vas Defekens and Vesicula Seminalis dissected. (After Sappey.) The entire length of the vas deferens averages about sixteen inches (40 cm.), of which an inch and a quarter (3 cm.) may be allotted to the testicular stage, three inches to the funicular stage, an inch and three-quarters to the inguinal stage, and the rest to the pelvic stage. It is cylindrical and of uniform diameter (about one- tenth of an inch) in its funicular, inguinal, and pelvic stages down to the retrovesical portion, and its walls are of great thickness, about one-twenty-fifth of an inch (1 mm.), while its calibre is extremely small. It is here composed of an outer cellu- lar coat containing vessels and smooth muscular fibres, a threefold muscular coat with external and internal longitudinal and middle circular layers, and a mucous membrane'lined with cylindrical epithelium. The ampullated retrovesical portion differs from the rest in the thinness of its walls and in its sacculation, and in these respects approximates to the vesicula? seminales (fig. 625). The vesicul/e seminales are two diverticular reservoirs situated between the bladder and rectum external to the ampulla? of the vasa deferentia. \— EJACULATORY DUCT JUNCTION OF VAS AND VESICULA SACCULI OF AMPULLA OF VAS