THE ARTERIES 510 anticus and longus colli muscles. In front it is covered by the vertebral and internal jugular veins, and is crossed by the inferior thyroid artery; and on the left side, in addition, by the thoracic duct, which runs over it from within outwards. Behind, the artery lies on the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the sympathetic nerve. To its inner side is the longus colli. To its outer side is the scalenus anticus. It gives off as a rule no branch in this part of its course. Occasionally, however, a small branch passes into the foramen of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The second or vertebral portion.—As the artery passes through the inter- vertebral foramina, it is surrounded by a plexus of veins and by branches of the sympathetic nerve. The cervical nerves lie behind it. Between the transverse processes it is in contact with the intertransverse muscles. The third or occipital portion.—The artery here lies in the suboccipital triangle, bounded by the superior oblique, inferior oblique, and rectus capitis pos- ticus major muscles. As it winds round the groove on the atlas, it has the rectus capitis lateralis, the articular process, and the occipito-atloid ligament in front of it; the superior oblique, the rectus capitis posticus major and the complexus behind it. Separating it from the arch of the atlas, is the first cervical or sub- occipital nerve. The fourth or intracranial portion extends from the aperture in the dura mater to the lower border of the pons, where it unites with its fellow to form the basilar artery. It here winds round from the side to the front of the medulla, lying in the vertebral groove on the basilar process of the occipital bone. In this course it passes beneath the first process of the ligamentum dentatum, and between the hypoglossal nerve in front, and the anterior roots of the suboccipital nerve behind. Chief Variations of the Vertebral Artery (A) The right vertebral artery may arise from the first part of the subclavian, either nearer to the innominate, or nearer to the anterior scalene muscle than normal. (B) It may come off from the arch of the aorta direct. (See Variations in the Chief Branches of the Arch of the Aorta.) (C) It may arise from the right common carotid when the right subclavian is given off from the aorta beyond the left subclavian. (D) It may pass behind the oesophagus. (E) The left vertebral artery may also arise from the arch of the aorta direct, or from the left common carotid. (See Variations in the Chief Branches of the Aorta. ) (F) Either vertebral may enter the foramen in the seventh cervical vertebra, or in that of the fifth, fourth, third, or second. When entering one of the higher vertebral foramina, it may lie behind the common carotid and cause some embarrassment in the ligature of the latter vessel. (G) Either vertebral may give off the inferior thyroid, superior intercostal, deep cervical, or occipital artery. (H) One or other artery may be much increased or diminished in size. Branches of the Vertebral Artery A. Cervical portion.—Xo branch. B. Vertebral portion.—1. Lateral spinal; 2. muscular. C. Occipital portion.—1. Muscular; 2. anastomotic. D. Cranial portion.—1. Posterior meningeal; 2. posterior spinal; 3. anterior spinal; 4. posterior cerebellar. Branches of the Second or Vertebral Portion 1. The lateral spinal branches run through the intervertebral foramina into the vertebral canal, and there divide into two branches: (a) The spinal, which ramifies on the backs of the bodies of the cervical vertebrae; and (6) the medullary, which runs along the spinal nerves, supplies the cord and its membranes, and anas- tomoses with the arteries above and below. 2. The muscular branches supply the deep muscles of the neck, and anastomose with the ascending cervical, occipi- tal, and deep cervical arteries.