814 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM anterior or internal superficial perinaeal nerve appears a little further forwards than the preceding nerve; it pierces the base of the triangular ligament, and usually passes through the fibres of the transverse perinasal muscle. Its terminal offsets accompany the branches of the posterior perinaeal nerve, and have a similar distribution. The muscular division of the perinaeal nerve is more deeply placed than the cutaneous division. It breaks up into the following branches: a twig to the bulb of the urethra, and branches to supply the transversus perinsei, erector penis (or clitoridis), accelerator urinas (or sphincter vaginas), and compressor urethras muscles. (c) The dorsal nerve of the penis, which is placed at its origin below the pudic artery, crosses that vessel and courses along above it. It insinuates itself between the layers of the triangular ligament, and lies close to the bone at the outer side of the pudic vessels. It then pierces the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and, having furnished a branch to the corpus cavernosum, passes between the bone and the crus penis, and is directed downwards between the layers of the suspensory ligament on the dorsum penis external to the dorsal artery. Having given off twigs to the prepuce, it ends in branches to the glans. As it runs on the dorsum penis the nerve is under cover of a thin strong fascia, and often appears in the form of two or three flattened parallel bundles. The dorsal nerve of the clitoris is distributed in a similar manner to the dorsal nerve of the penis, but is of much smaller size. 2. The Great Sciatic Nerve The great sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. It is, as above mentioned, the main termination of the sacral plexus, and commences at the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It is directed vertically down the thigh, and terminates a little below the middle of the thigh by dividing into the external and internal popliteal nerves. In this course it is covered by the skin and fascia?, the gluteus maximus, the long head of the biceps, and the small sciatic nerve. Its deep or anterior relations are the following, taken in order from above downwards: the ischium, gemellus superior, tendon of obturator interims, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and adductor magnus. The great sciatic nerve consists of two parts, the external and the internal popliteal, which are usually bound together into a single trunk by a connective tissue sheath; sometimes, however, they remain separate, a great sciatic nerve, in the proper sense of the word, being absent. About the middle of the thigh the external popliteal part supplies a twig con- taining filaments of the fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves to the short head of the biceps. At the upper part of the thigh the internal popliteal por- tion gives branches to the long head of the biceps, the semitendinosus, the semi- membranosus, and the adductor magnus. There are always two branches to the semitendinosus, one to each belly, and they contain filaments of fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. The branch to the adductor magnus supplies the ischial section of that muscle by filaments derived from the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, it is usually given off with the branch to the semimembranosus which also contains fibres of the first sacral nerve. The branch to the long head of the biceps contains fibres from the first, second, and third sacral nerves. The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE, formed of fibres derived from the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves, enters the superior angle of the popliteal space and runs downwards and outwards in contact with the inner border of the "biceps. It leaves the space by passing between the biceps tendon and the outer head of the gastrocnemius, it crosses the popliteus and the inferior external articular artery, then it winds round the neck of the fibula between the bone and the peroneus longus muscle, and terminates by dividing into the recurrent articular, the musculo-cutaneous, and the anterior tibial nerves. Branches.—The branches of the external popliteal nerve may be classified into articular, cutaneous, and terminal. (1) The articular branches accompany the superior and inferior external articular branches of the popliteal artery, and are distributed to the knee-joint. (2) The cutaneous branches are two in number; they often arise by a common