1097 MO UTH—PA LA TE—NOSE mouth is very limited, extending, in the adult, from the lower border of the axis to the middle or lower part of the fourth cervical vertebra; in the child, owing to the small size of the face, it comprises the bodies of the axis and of the third cervical vertebra.' (Thane and Godlee, from Chipault.) TONSILS.—The relations of the tonsils should be carefully examined. Thus, they are separated externally by the superior constrictor and pharyngeal aponeuro- sis from the ascending pharyngeal and internal carotid arteries. The extent to which the tonsil is covered by the anterior pillar, how far it projects upwards beneath the soft palate or downwards into the pharynx, have all important bear- ings on the mode of removal. Its position corresponds to the angle of the jaw. When serious haemorrhage follows operations on the tonsils, it usually comes from one of the numerous tonsillar arteries, which is enlarged, and not from the ascending pharyngeal or internal carotid. The finger introduced downwards at the back of the mouth, especially if the parts are rendered insensitive by cocaine, feels the circumvallate papillae, the lingual and laryngeal surfaces of the epiglottis, the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, with the cartilages of Wrisberg and Santorini. If the finger be moved upwards behind the soft palate and turned upwards to the base of the skull, and then forwards, it will impinge on the posterior nares, separated by the vomer, and, within each nostril, the hinder end of the inferior and middle spongy bones; above and behind is felt the basilar process of the skull, the vault of pharynx, and upper cervical spine (tig. 671). The size of the nares, one inch by half an inch, and the presence of any adenoids, are especially to be noted. The richness of the naso-pharynx in glandular structures, its proneness to inflammation, and of this inflammation to spread to other parts,—e.g. the tympanum,—are well known. The finger should be familiar with the feel of adenoids—i.e. hypertrophied post-nasal lymphatic nodules—soft bodies of irregular shape blocking up the naso-pharynx. To make out how far this is the case, it is well to take the nasal septum as the starting-point. THE PALATE Between the diverging pillars of the soft palate is the isthmus faucium, bounded above by the free margin of the palate, and below by the dorsum of the tongue. . Of its lateral boundaries, the posterior pillars come nearer each other than the anterior. In paring the edges of a cleft soft palate, the following structures would be, successively, cut through : (1) Oral mucous membrane; (2) submucous tissue, with vessels, nerves, and glands; (3) palato-glossus muscle; (4) aponeurosis of tensor palati; (5) anterior fasciculus of palato-pharyngeus; (6) levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles; (7) posterior fasciculus of palato- pharyngeus; (8) submucous tissue, vessels, nerves, and glands; (9) posterior mucous membrane. The soft palate is thicker than it seems, the average in an adult being a quarter of an inch. The muscles widening a cleft are the tensor and levator, while the superior constrictor closes it in swallowing. Of the arteries to the palate, the largest is the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. This emerges from the posterior palatine canal close to the inner side of the last molar tooth, and runs forward to supply the hard palate (page 496). THE NOSE On the face the outline of the nasal bones can be easily traced, and below them the upper lateral cartilages, flat and also somewhat triangular. Below these are the lower lateral cartilages, curved and so folded back that each forms an outer and an inner plate. Of these the inner meet below the septal cartilage to form the tip of the nose, while the outer curve backwards, and, together with dense masses of cellular tissue and fat and accessory cartilages, form the alae. With the speculum, especially if the head be thrown back and the tip of the nose drawn up, the lower part of the septum, floor of the nose, and greater