MASSETER— THE TEMPORAL MUSCLE 441 muscle; covering also the deep surface of the gland, and giving off a process called the stylo-maxillary ligament, which, running from the styloid process to the angle of the mandible, separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. 1. MASSETER The masseter (fig. 311)—named from the Greek word iiaadoixat, to chew—is a strong quadrate sheet, consisting of two layers. Origin.—The superficial layer, from the lower border of the malar bone, and the lower border of the anterior two-thirds of the zygomatic arch; the deep layer, from the lower border of the posterior third of the zygomatic arch, and the whole of its inner surface. Insertion.—The superficial layer, into the lower half of the outer surface of the ramus of the mandible; the deep layer, partly with the superficial layer, and partly into the upper half of the outer surface of the ramus of the mandible. Structure.—The origin and insertion are by tendinous bands intermingled in multipenniform fashion with fleshy fibres. The fibres of the superficial sheet are directed obliquely downwards and backwards; those of the deep sheet almost vertically downwards, and they are much shorter than the superficial fibres. The two sheets blend closely in front, but are separate behind, where the muscle forms a sort of pocket closed above at the origin and below at the insertion, as well as in front, but open behind. Nerve-supply.—The masseteric branch of the motor portion of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, which enters the deep surface of the muscle just below the zygoma. Action.—To close the jaw, and by its superficial layer to draw it slightly forwards. In closing the jaw it acts with less mechanical disadvantage than is usual with muscles. When the pressure to be overcome is exerted upon the back teeth, the arm of the lever upon which the power acts is almost as long as that which intervenes between these teeth and the fulcrum. This fulcrum is not at the temporo-mandibular joint, but at a point below the neck of the mandible, cor- responding very nearly to the lowTer attachment of the internal lateral ligament. Moreover, the resultant force of the muscle, acting as it does upwrards and forwards, is perpendicular to the lever, which may be roughly described as a bar extending downwards and forwards from the neck of the mandible to the point of the chin. Relations.—Superficially, the parotid gland and its duct, the platysma myoides, the risorius and the masseteric fascia, the transverse facial vessels, the facial vein, the upper and lower divisions of the facial nerve; deeply, the buccal fat-pad which separates it from the buccinator and a small part of the temporal muscle. 2. THE TEMPORAL MUSCLE The temporal muscle—named from its attachment to the temple ( = tempus) —is a thick, somewhat triangular sheet; more correctly it may be described as forming the quadrant of a circle. Origin.—(1) The whole of the temporal fossa, from the temporal to the ptery- goid ridge, with the exception of a small part close to the outer wall of the orbit, which is occupied by fat; (2) the inner surface of the temporal fascia down to its lower attachment to the zygomatic process, from the inner surface of which some of its fibres also sometimes arise. Insertion.—The point, posterior border, and the whole of the inner surface of the coronoid process of the mandible, down to the last molar tooth. Structure.—The bones of the temporal fossa and the temporal fascia form a pouch, open downwards, from which the fleshy fibres of the muscle converge, the middle fibres running downwards, the anterior downwards and backwards, the posterior almost transversely forwards, to be inserted below upon both faces of a flat tendon which, becoming free of flesh on the outer surface first, embraces the point and borders of the coronoid process.