66 THE SKELETON lodging unerupted teeth. Each half is joined at the symphysis by fibrous tissue. The upper edge of the symphysis and the condyles are nearly on a level. The mandibular nerve lies in a shallow groove between the dentary and splenial plates. During the first year the two halves ankylose, union taking place from below upwards, but the ankylosis is not complete until the second year. After the first dentition, the ramus forms with the body of the mandible an angle of about 140°, and the mental foramen is situated midway between the upper and lower borders of the bone opposite the second milk-molar. In the adult, the angle formed by the ramus and body is nearly a right angle, and the mental foramen is opposite the second bicuspid, so that its relative position remains unaltered after the first denti- tion. In old age, after the fall of the teeth, the alveolar margin is absorbed, the angle formed by the ramus and body becomes obtuse, and the mental foramen approaches the alveolar margin. In a young and vigorous adult the mandible is, with the exception of the petrosal, the densest bone in the skeleton, and resists decay longest; in old age it becomes exceedingly porous, and often so soft that it may be broken easily. THE HYOID, THE STYLOID PROCESS, AND THE EAR-BONES Tin' hyoid or lingual bone consists of a body and four processes. The body (basi-hyal) forms the central portion of the bone; it is somewhat oblong in shape. Its anterior aspect is convex and divided by a longitudinal ridge into a superior and an inferior portion. Frequently it presents a median vertical ridge, and at the Fig. 77.—The Hyoid. point where the horizontal and vertical ridges intersect, a tubercle, sometimes measuring four millimetres in length, is formed. The whole of the anterior surface is crowded with the origin and insertions of muscles. The posterior surface is deeply concave. The inferior border is free, the superior gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid membrane. Between this membrane and the concavity of the hyoid there is a large bursa. The lateral borders are in relation with the greater cornua, but remain separated from them until late in life. The greater cornua (thyro-hyals) project backwards and upwards. Their upper and lower borders and anterior surfaces are occupied with muscles. Each corner terminates posteriorly in a rounded tubercle, to which the thyro-hyoid ligament is attached. The lesser cornua (cerato-hyals) are small conical pieces of bone occupying the upper part of the suture between the body and the greater cornua. Their tips are continuous with the stylo-hyoid ligaments. Muscles attached to the hyoid bone :— Lingualis. Digastric. Mylo-hyoid. Genio-hyo-glossus. Genio-hyoid. Hyo-glossus. Middle constrictor. Thyro-hyoid. Hyo-epiglottideus Sterno-hyoid. Omo-hyoid. (when present).