THE ARTERIES 594 the inner surface of the calcaneum, and anastomose with the internal calcanean branch of the posterior tibial artery (fig. 379). (3) The cutaneous pass between the abductor minimi digiti and flexor brevis digitorum, and through the interval between the middle and outer portions of the plantar fascia, to the skin. (4) The anastomotic turn over the outer border of the foot, and anastomose with the tarsal and metatarsal branches of the dorsalis pedis (fig. 381). (5) The articular come off from the concavity of the arch, and, running back- wards and upwards, are distributed to the articulations of the tarsus. They are Fig. 378.—The Plantar Aeteeies, Left Foot. (From a dissection in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) External calcanean artery Cutaneous branch of external plantar Abductor minimi digiti Anastomotic branch External plantar artery First digital to outer side of little toe Lumbrical muscle Second digital Third digital _ Fourth digital Anastomosis about inter- phalangeal joint Dorsal branch of collateral digital A nastomosis of collateral digital arteries around matrix of nail and pulp of toe Internal calcanean artery Cutaneous branch of internal plantar Plantar fascia, cut Abductor hallucis Internal plantar artery Flexor brevis digitorum Branch of internal plantar to digital arteries (superficial digital) Flexor brevis hallucis Princeps hallucis, or fifth plantar digital artery Collateral digital branch of princeps hallucis to second toe Collateral digital branch of princeps hallucis to inner side of great toe Collateral digital branch of princeps hallucis to outer side of great toe homologous to the recurrent branches of the deep palmar arch in the hand, and, like the latter, are usually three in number. (6) The posterior perforating, also three in number, ascend through the proximal end of the second, third, and fourth spaces, between the two heads of the correspondingly named dorsal interosseous muscles, and communicate with the proximal ends of the first, second, and third interosseous arteries (fig. 381). (7) The digital or plantar digital arteries are usually four in number, and are distributed to the inner and outer sides of the third, fourth, and fifth toes, and to the outer side of the second toe. They are named first, second, third, and fourth as they come off from the arch from without inwards, and not according to