810 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM part of the rectum, and on the right the lower end of the ileum passes in front of it. It is formed as follows: a part of the fourth lumbar nerve, " nervus furcalis," joins the fifth lumbar nerve to form the lumbo-sacral cord; this cord is then joined by the first, second, and third sacral nerves to form a great flattened band, which is directed outwards and downwards towards the lower margin of the great sacro- sciatic foramen, and, on crossing that margin, is no longer called the sacral plexus, but takes the name of the great sciatic nerve. A part of the third sacral nerve is joined by branches from the second and fourth sacral nerves to form a second or lower band of relatively small size, which ends in the pudic nerve. Several branches, to be presently enumerated, spring from the plexus; but by far the larger part of the plexus is directly continued into the great sciatic and pudic nerves. The plexus is, therefore, more condensed and more simple in its formation than any other plexus in the body. The two constituents of the lumbo-sacral cord unite to form that structure on, or a little below, the brim of the pelvis. The plexus has the following important vascular relations: the internal iliac vessels are placed a little in front of its upper part; the gluteal artery passes between the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve; the sciatic artery passes through the lower part of the plexus (fig. 466). It has been shown (Paterson) that the anterior primary divisions of the lower four lumbar and the upper two sacral nerves divide into anterior and posterior parts. The branches derived from the anterior parts (lightly shaded in fig. 465) always cross in front of the posterior parts and unite to form trunks (e.g. obturator, internal popliteal), which are distributed to what is mor- phologically the anterior aspect of the limb. The trunks which are formed from the posterior parts (e.g. external cutaneous, anterior crural, external popliteal) are distributed to the (mor- phologically) posterior aspect of the limb ; these nerves are darkly shaded in fig. 465. The branches of the sacral plexus are classified into collateral and terminal. The collateral branches are the superior gluteal, the inferior gluteal, the nerve to the pyriformis, visceral branches, the nerve to the quadratus, the small sciatic, the nerve to the obturator interims, and the perforating cutaneous nerve. The terminal branches are the great sciatic and the pudic nerves. collateral branches.—1. The superior gluteal nerve arises by two roots, one from the lumbo-sacral cord, and the other from the first sacral nerve. The upper root contains fibres derived from the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves. The nerve accompanies the gluteal vessels through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, passing above the pyriformis. It then divides into a smaller upper and a larger lower branch. The upper branch accompanies the upper division of the deep part of the gluteal artery and terminates in the gluteus medius; the lower branch crosses the gluteus minimus with the lower branch of the deep part of the gluteal artery, supplying filaments to the gluteus medius and minimus and a terminal branch, which passes between their anterior borders, or through the fibres of the minimus, to the tensor fascia femoris. 2. The inferior gluteal nerve arises from the posterior aspect of the plexus, and contains fibres derived from the fifth lumbar and the first, second, and third sacral nerves. It escapes through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the pyriformis, and in this situation is often adherent to the small sciatic nerve. It divides into several stout twigs, which enter the deep surface of the gluteus maximus. 3. The nerve to the pyriformis is given off either from the second or from the third sacral nerve before they join the plexus. 4. The visceral branches arise from the third and fourth sacral nerves. They will be described in connection with the sympathetic. 5. The nerve to the quadratus femoris rises from the front of the plexus, obtaining fibres from the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves. It passes through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyriformis, and is usually adherent for some distance to the deep surface of the great sciatic in the part of its course where it lies between the latter nerve and the bone. It then passes, under cover of the tendon of the obturator internus and the gemelli, and, having supplied the gemellus inferior, ends in the deep or anterior surface of the quadratus femoris, and in the posterior part of the capsule of the hip-joint.