874 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE ring (fig. 498a). Above and in front where the ring is wanting there is a slight recess known as the notch of Rivinus, and here the membrane is extended outwards, to unite with the grooveless margin of the tympanum to form what is known as the Rivinian segment. The shape of the membrane varies with that of the inner end of the meatus. Its long axis is from above downwards and forwards. The membrane, broadly viewed, is concave externally, and convex towards the cavity of the tympanum. Tins is mainly due to the traction of the handle of the malleus, which descends obliquely downwards and backwards between its two inner layers to a point a little below the centre of the membrane. This curvature is deepest at the umbo, opposite the flattened extremity of the handle. In front of and below the umbo, extending towards the periphery, the membrane is slightly convex externally. At the anterior superior pole, the short process of the malleus is plainly visible as a rounded point projecting outwards. A fold of the membrane passes backwards, and another forwards from this spot, and above these folds may, under favorable conditions, be seen two short, tightly stretched stripe, which, taking origin from the corners of the notch of Rivinus above, converge as they descend to meet at the short process. The membrane between these stria; and the edge of the notch is thin and flaccid, and appears above the short process as a small pit-like depression Fig. 497.—External View of the Left Membrana Tympani. (Enlarged from life.) Shrapnell's membrane Posterior fold of membrana tympani (membrana Shrapnelli). An anastomosis between the tympanic vessels and those of the external meatus occurs at this spot. Viewed from within, the head of the malleus is seen above the membrane articulating with the incus, its curved handle passing downwards and slightly back- wards between its layers, and strongly projecting from the inner surface. The chorda tympani nerve may be seen crossing the neck of the malleus forwards to the Glaserian fissure. Folds of the membrane occur in front of and behind the malleus, forming what are known as the anterior and posterior pouches of the membrana tympani. The free margin of the posterior pouch is commonly well marked. Passing slightly downwards and outwards to the base of the handle of the malleus, is the strongly marked fold containing the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle. Structure.—The membrana tympani consists of three layers—a special fibrous layer, with a cuticular covering externally continuous with that which lines the external auditory meatus; and a mucous lining internally derived from the tym- panic cavity. The fibrous layer consists of two lamella; closely connected—an external, in which the fibres radiate from the handle of the malleus; and an internal, the fibres of which are arranged concentrically, and are especially strong at the circumference.