533 ULNAR •which the ulnar is given off. At times it runs beneath the muscles, or merely beneath the skin. (B) It may in some cases of high division of the brachial run beneath the fascia throughout its whole extent in the forearm. (C) In some cases of normal origin from the brachial it takes a superficial course in the forearm, being merely covered by the fascia, the recurrent branches and the common interosseous then arising from the radial. The branches of the ulnar artery in the forearm are:—1. The anterior ulnar recurrent. 2. The posterior ulnar recurrent. 3. The interosseous, or com- mon interosseous: (a) anterior interosseous—(i) arteria comes nervi mediani, (ii) muscular, (hi) medullary, (iv) anterior communicating; (b) posterior interosse- ous—(i) interosseous recurrent, (ii) muscular, (iii) articular. 4. Muscular. 5. Nutrient. 6. Posterior ulnar carpal. 7. Anterior ulnar carpal. 1. The anterior ulnar recurrent is a small branch which leaves the inner side of the ulnar artery soon after its origin, and, running upwards and inwards between the outer edge of the pronator teres and the brachialis anticus, anastomoses in front of the internal condyle with the anastomotica magna and a branch of the inferior profunda artery. It supplies branches to the muscles between which it runs. 2. The posterior ulnar recurrent, larger than the anterior ulnar recurrent, comes off from the inner side of the ulnar artery, either a little below the latter branch, or else as a common trunk with it, and, passing inwards between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum, turns upwards to the back of the internal condyle, where it lies with the ulnar nerve between the two heads of origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris. It supplies the contiguous muscles—the flexor carpi ulnaris, the palmaris longus, and the flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum—the elbow- joint and the ulnar nerve, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda, with the anastomotica magna, and with the interosseous recurrent, forming the so-called rete olecrani. 3. The interosseous or common interosseous artery,.is a short thick trunk half an inch or so in length, which comes off from the outer and back part of the ulnar artery about an inch from its origin, and just before that artery is crossed by the median nerve. It passes backwards and downwards between the flexor longus pollicis and the flexor profundus digitorum, towards the triangular interval bounded by the upper border of the interosseous membrane, the oblique ligament, and the outer border of the ulna, where it divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. (a) The anterior interosseous artery, smaller than the posterior, but appar- ently the direct continuation of the common trunk, cmirse"s downwards in front of the interosseous membrane, upon which it lies under cover of the overlapping edges of the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, to the upper border of the pronator quadratus, where it terminates in two branches, an anterior terminal and a posterior terminal. The anterior interosseous artery is accompanied by two veins and by the deep branch of the median nerve which lies to its radial side. The artery is bound down to the interosseous membrane by aponeurotic fibres. The branches of the anterior interosseous artery are:—(1) The arteria comes nervi mediani—or the median artery as it is sometimes shortly called—is a long slender vessel, which arises from the anterior interosseous immediately after the latter is given off from the common trunk. It passes forwards between the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis to the median nerve, with which it descends beneath the annular ligament into the palm, and when of large size sometimes enters into the formation of the superficial palmar arch. At times the artery arises from the common interosseous before its division, (ii) Muscular branches supply the flexor longus pollicis, flexor profundus digitorum, and pro- nator quadratus, and the extensor muscles of the thumb, which they reach by passing backwards through the interosseous membrane, (iii) The nutrient arteries of the radius and ulna are usually derived from this vessel, (iv) The anterior terminal and smaller division of the anterior interosseous artery, some- times called the anterior communicating, passes either in front of or behind the pronator quadratus, but in either case in front of the interosseous membrane, and anastomoses with the anterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries, and