SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1168 along the interosseous spaces, and bifurcate half an inch above the webs of the ringers; the innermost digital does not bifurcate. The digital arteries then descend along the sides of the fingers under the digital nerves, giving off twigs to the sheath of the tendons, which enter by apertures in it, and run in the vincula vasculosa. It is owing to the readiness with which these tiny twigs are strangled by inflamma- tion that sloughing of the tendon takes place so readily and irreparably. The deep palmar arch, formed by the radial and communicating branch of the ulnar, lies about half an inch nearer to the wrist than the superficial. Fasciae and sheaths.—The two annular ligaments bind down and hold in place the numerous tendons about the wrist. The anterior, when healthy, cannot be detected. It is attached to the pisiform and cuneiform bones on the inner, and to the scaphoid and trapezium on the outer, side. The ulnar nerve and vessels, the superficialis vote, and palmar cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar pass over Fig. 733.—Diagram of the Great Palmar Bursa. it. The ulnar artery and nerve are especially protected by their position between the pisiform and hook of the unciform, and also by a process of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which passes between the two bones, thus forming a kind of tunnel. The flexor carpi radialis passes through a separate sheath formed by the ligaments and the groove in the trapezium; while beneath the ligament lie the flexor tendons, the median nerve, and accompanying artery. Attached to its upper border is the deep fascia of the forearm, and to its lower the palmar fascia and the palmaris longus tendon, while from the outer and inner parts arise some of the thenar and hypo- thenar muscles. The upper border of the anterior annular ligament corresponds to the lower of the two lines which cross the wrist just above the thenar and hypo- thenar eminences. The large synovial sheath, for all the flexors of the fingers, reaches beneath and below the anterior ligament as far as the middle of the palm, and above the wrist for an inch and a half or two inches (37 to 50 mm.).