THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 986 3. The mucous coat is raised into rugee bounding polygonal spaces, which are largest about the body. It is lined with columnar epithelium, and contains many mucous glands. At the neck the mucous membrane forms folds which project into the interior, acting as valves. This layer contains an anastomosis of blood-vessels, and a fine plexus of lymphatics. The ducts consist of a fibrous and a mucous layer. In the fibrous layer are mus- cular fibres which are chiefly circular, together with many strong white connective tissue and elastic fibres. The mucous layer is lined with columnar epithelium, and has many mucous glands. In the cystic duct the mucous membrane is raised into folds, which are crescentic in form, and so directed obliquely as to seem to surround the lumen of the tube in a spiral manner. Varieties of the Liver Varieties are more rare in the liver than in almost any other organ of the body. The left lobe may be very small; on the other hand, it may be much larger, occasionally extending in an attenuated form much more towards the left. The left lobe, or a portion of it, may be attached only by a pedicle of peritoneum and vessels to the main organ. The gall bladder has been seen through an opening in the upper surface, owing to the depth of the fossa of the gall bladder. The liver may be subdivided into many lobes, or may show no division at all. It may retain the thick rounded form of the foetus. The gall bladder may be absent, in which case the hepatic duct usually becomes much dilated before it reaches the duodenum. The gall bladder may be partially divided either transversely or longitudinally. The common duct may enter the bowel independently of the pancreatic duct. THE PANCREAS The pancreas is situated in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. It is a compound racemose gland. It lies transversely across the body, on a level with the first and second lumbar vertebrae, and is deeply placed (fig. 577). It differs in shape as it is examined in situ, or removed from the body. When examined in situ it shows various impressions for the different organs with which it is in contact (figs. 570, 571); when removed from the body it appears to be longer, and runs to a point at the left extremity (fig. 587). It is of a pinkish-cream colour and soft in texture. It shows upon its surface the markings between the lobules of which it is made up. It may be divided into four portions: a head, a neck, a body, and a tail. The pancreas varies considerably in size. Its average length is five to six inches (120 to 150 mm.), and its thickness from half an inch to one inch. It weighs from 2^ to ounces. The head of the pancreas is situated at the right extremity of the gland, and is contained in the loop of the duodenum. It is disc-shaped and flattened from before backwards. The head is bent downwards, so that it extends lower than the lower border of the body. Behind it are found the common bile duct, which runs, as a rule, in a canal in its substance, the vena cava, the left renal vein, and the aorta (fig. 571). In front are the superior mesenteric vessels, the pancreatico-duodenal vessels, and the transverse colon and its meso-colon. The neck springs from the upper part of the head in front and turns upwards and to the left to join the body. It lies over the point of junction of the superior mesenteric and portal veins. At its attachment to the head it is grooved by the gastro-duodenal and superior pancreatico-duodenal arteries. In front of it would be the first part of the duodenum. According to Professor His, there are three surfaces on the body of the pan- creas : anterior, inferior, and posterior. The body extends from the head of the