1202 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY malleolus, supplies the inner border of the foot as far as the middle of the instep. Plantar arteries.—The line of the internal would be one drawn from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial, or about midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the inner border of the heel, to the middle of the plantar surface of the great toe. The course of the external plantar runs in a line drawn from the bifurcation, first obliquely across the foot to a point a little internal to the inner side of the base of the fifth metatarsal, and thence obliquely across the foot till it reaches the first space and joins with a communicating branch from the dorsal artery. It thus crosses the foot twice. In the first part, it is more superficial, in the second very deep; it here forms the plantar arch, and is only separated from the bases of the metatarsals by the interossei. ARCHES OF THE FOOT These are two—the longitudinal and the transverse. (A) Longitudinal arch (figs. 766, 767, and 768).—This is by far the most important. Extent: From the heel to the heads of the metatarsal bones. The toes do not add much to the strength and elasticity of the foot (Humphry ). They en- large its area and adapt it to inequalities of the ground, are useful in climbing, and Fig. 767.—The Arch in the Ordinary Position of Standing. (Ellis, of Gloucester.) in giving an impulse to the step before the foot is taken from the ground, in the third stage of "walking. Two pillars.—Professor Humphry lays stress on the important differences between these two: (1) Posterior pillar: This consists of the calca- neum and hinder part of the astragalus, viz. only two bones in order to secure solidity, and to enable the calf-muscles to act directly upon the heel, without any of that loss of power which would be brought about by many moving joint- surfaces. (2) Anterior pillar: Here there are many bones and joints to provide (a) elastic springiness, and (6) width. This anterior pillar may again be divided into two: (a) An inner pillar, very elastic, consisting of the astragalus, scaphoid, three cuneiforms, and three inner metatarsals, (b) An outer, formed by the cuboids and two outer metatarsals. This is stronger and less elastic, and tends to buttress up the inner pillar. Keystone : This is represented by the summit of the trochlear surface of the astragalus. It differs from the keystones in ordinary