CAVITY OF THE ORBIT 855 are arranged in opponent pairs, viz. superior and inferior recti, superior and inferior obliques, external and internal recti. With the exception of the short inferior oblique, they all arise from the back of the orbit along with the seventh orbital 'muscle, the elevator of the upper lid. All these long muscles take their origin from the periosteum in the vicinity of the optic foramen. The four recti muscles arise from a fibrous ring, which arches close over the upper and inner edge of the foramen, and extends down and out so as to embrace part of the opening of the sphenoidal fissure. Their origins may be said at first to form a short, com- mon, tendinous tube, from which the individual muscles soon separate, taking the positions indicated by their respective names. The external rectus has two origins from bone, one on either side of the sphenoidal fissure. But in the fresh state the fissure is here bridged across by fibrous tissue, from which this rectus also springs, so that its origin is in reality continuous. The part of this fibrous Fig. 482.—Section through Contents of Eight Orbit 8-11 mm. behind the Eyeball, viewed from behind. (After Lange.) SUPRAORBITAL NER VE Supraorbilal artery .Levator palpebrae superioris muscle Superior rectus muscle _ LACHRYMAL NERVE Lachrymal artery Lachrymal vein Ophthalmic vein Ciliary artery Central retinal artery Ciliary artery Inferior rectus muscle Ciliary artery External rectus muscle S2—Ciliary artery THIRD NERVE (BRANCH TO INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE) ring nearest the foramen (corresponding to the origins of the superior and internal recti) is closely connected with the outer sheath of the optic nerve. The remain- ing two long muscles arise just outside the upper and inner part of the above- mentioned ring, and are often partially united; the levator palpebrae tendon is in close relation to the origin of the superior rectus, while the superior oblique arises from the periosteum of the body of the sphenoid bone one or two millimetres in front of the origin of the internal rectus. The four recti muscles lie rather close to the corresponding orbital walls for the first half of their course, the superior rectus, however, being overlapped in part by the levator palpebral; they then turn towards the eyeball, running obliquely through the orbital fat, and are finally inserted by broad, thin tendons into the sclerotic in front of the equator. The thickest of these muscles is the internal rectus, next the external, then the inferior, and the superior rectus is the thinnest.