1068 URINARY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS pudic nerves, accompany the arteries; each nerve gives off filaments to the deep transversus perineei, and then pierces the fore part of the superficial triangular ligament with the dorsal artery. (7) The deep transversus perinsei, compressor urethrse, or muscle of Guthrie.—The muscular tissue of the deep perinatal space has been a source of great confusion owing to the multiplicity of the names which have been assigned to various portions of it ; but the description given by Henle may be accepted as at once the simplest and the most accurate. The transversus perinsei profundus of Henle is closely connected with the superior and inferior triangular ligaments. It arises from the inner surface of the ischio-pubic ramus, by tendinous bundles which separate to form a kind of channel for the pudic vessels and dorsal nerve of the penis, close to the bone. From this origin the greater part of the fibres run across the subpubic angle in a transverse direction in front of and behind the mem- branous urethra, enclosing Cowper's glands and the deep veins of the penis, and join a more or less indistinct median raphe; while others pass more or less obliquely forwards in front of the urethra and behind the dorsal vein to become attached to the pubic ramus on the side opposite to the bony attachment. A small accessory bundle (the ' sagittal layer ' of Henle) may sometimes be found running directly forwards to become inserted into the upper surface of the bulb and into the connective tissue between the corpora cavernosa; and the name ' muscle of Wilson' has been given to a few fasciculi, often difficult to demonstrate, running from the subpubic ligament to the membranous urethra. The arrangement of the fibres differs considerably in different subjects, and much complexity has been introduced into the study of the muscle by the artificial segregation of certain of its parts under special names, such as levator urethrse, constrictor urethras, etc. Its action is partly to compress the membranous urethra and thus assist the expulsion of urine and semen, and partly to intercept the flow of blood through the veins of the penis, and so aid in erection. It also exercises compression upon Cowper's glands, and effects the discharge of their secretion during seminal emission. It is supplied by a branch from the dorsal nerve of the penis. Tlie deep or superior triangular ligament (figs. 650, 652, 654) is in some sort a prolongation of the obturator fascia across the pubic arch, the continuity of the two fasciae, however, being interrupted by the attachment of their deep fibres to the inner edges of the ischio-pubic rami. Interiorly it is in intimate relation with the deep transversus perinaai; while superiorly it forms on each side the floor of the anterior extension of the ischio-rectal fossa; and in the middle line it is sepa- rated from the apex of the prostate by a prolongation of recto-vesical fascia, and by a layer of smooth muscular fibre, the prerectalis of Henle, in which end the greater part of the anterior longitudinal fibres of the rectum. It is pierced by the pudic artery and vein and the dorsal nerve of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis passes between it and the subpubic ligament. THE FEMALE PERINEUM The female perinaeum (fig. 656) differs from that of the male, partly in the perforation of the whole of its fascial and muscular structures in the middle line by the vulvo-vaginal passage, and partly in the adaptation of the perineal muscles to the modified conditions of the external genital apparatus. The corpora cavernosa penis are represented by the relatively diminutive corpora clitoridis ; the ischio- cavernosi are proportionately reduced in size, but differ in no other material respect; the corpus spongiosum is divided into two lateral segments, which are represented by the bulbi vestibuli and partes intermediales ; and the two bulbo-cavernosi are separate, and appear in an attenuated form, spread over the erectile tissue as an attenuated plane of fibres, the compressor vaginas, which is often difficult to recognise on dissection; while the median raphe uniting the two muscles in the male gives place to the genital fissure. The superficial transversi perinaei differ only in size from those of the male; but the deep transversus perinaei is of course cleft by the vagina, and its fibres are relatively thin and weak and in