768 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM The term ascending as applied to the fibres of the glossopharyngeal nerve which lie in the funiculus solitarius is unjustifiable. In reality the funiculus consists of fibres of the glosso- pharyngeal and vagus nerves, derived from the ganglion cells of these nerves, which are passing downwards to lower levels of the medulla, and which correspond, therefore, to a certain extent, with the fibres of the descending comma-shaped tract of the spinal cord. From its superficial origin the glosso-pharyngeal nerve proceeds outwards and slightly forwards, below and in front of the flocculus, to reach the middle compart- ment of the jugular foramen, which it traverses in common with the vagus and spinal accessory nerves. As it passes through the foramen it is placed in front of, and a little internal to, the vagus and spinal accessory nerves; but occupies a sepa- rate compartment in the dura mater, and is lodged in a groove on the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Having emerged at the base of the skull, it lies at first in contact with the vagus, but leaves the latter almost immedi- ately and passes forwards and inwards between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery and curves round the outer side of the latter vessel between it and the external carotid. In this part of its course it is placed under cover of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It then winds round the lower border of that muscle, and finally passes upwards in front of it and gains the deep surface of the hyo- glossus, where it breaks up into its terminal or lingual branches. In the course above described, the glosso-pharyngeal describes a curve with the convexity directed downwards and backwards. In its course through the jugular foramen, two ganglia are formed upon the trunk of the nerve, the lower of these bodies (petrous ganglion) is the more con- stant, the upper or jugular ganglion being generally regarded as a segmentation from the petrous ganglion. The two ganglia taken together are generally assumed to be equivalent to the ganglion on the posterior root of a spinal nerve. The jugular ganglion (ganglion of Ehrenritter) is a small greyish body which involves only the back part of the nerve. It is lodged in the upper part of the groove in the temporal bone through which the nerve passes. This ganglion does not give off any branches. The petrous ganglion (ganglion of Andersch) is an ovoid greyish body which probably involves all the fibres of the nerve. Its long axis coincides with the axis of the nerve, and measures two or three millimetres. It is placed in the lower part of the jugular fossa. The nerve of Jacobson and some communicating branches arise from it. Branches.—The following branches are given off by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve:—(1) meningeal; (2) tympanic; (3) communicating; (4) muscular; (5) pharyngeal; (6) tonsillar; and (7) lingual. (1) The meningeal branches are slender twigs which are given off within the cranium, and are distributed to the pia mater and arachnoid. (Boch- dalek.) (2) The tympanic branch, or nerve of Jacobson, is a small twig which arises from the petrous ganglion. It enters a minute canal (the tympanic canaliculus), which commences below on the ridge between the jugular fossa and the inferior opening of the carotid canal, and ends above, in the tympanic cavity, immediately below the promontory. The nerve, having traversed this canal, ramifies on the promontory, grooving the bone, and forming the tympanic plexus. The following branches arise from the nerve within the tympanum: («) a communicating twig to the great superficial petrosal; (b) a twig to the lesser superficial petrosal, which is considered by some anatomists to be the main root of the nerve; (c) a twig to the mucous membrane surrounding the fenestra ovalis; (d) a twig to the fenestra rotunda; (e) a twig to the lining membrane of the Eustachian tube; (/) a twig which passes through the caroticotympanic canal to join the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. ( 3) The communicating branches arise from the petrous ganglion. One joins the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; another forms a loop with the auricular branch of the vagus; while a third, less constant than the other two, joins the ganglion of the root of the vagus. Immediately below the petrous ganglion a twig is given off which joins the lingual branch of the facial as above described (page 764).