THE METACARPUS 135 The Second Metacarpal is the longest, and is easily recognised by its large deeply cleft base. The dorsal surface affords attachment to the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior and a part of the extensor carpi radialis brevior; to the palmar surface the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is inserted. The remaining surfaces present four articular facets. The end of the bone is occupied by a deep groove for the trape- zoid; the ulnar ridge of this concavity is smooth for the magnum, and is directly continuous with a long narrow facet for the third metacarpal. The radial surface of the base has a small, somewhat quadrangular facet for the trapezium. Muscles :— Flexor carpi radialis. First and second dorsal interosseous. Extensor carpi radialis longior. First palmar interosseous. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Flexor brevis pollicis. Fig. 146.—The Third (Left) Metacarpal. RADIAL SIDE FOR SECOND METACARPAL Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is derived from the first palmar inter- osseous. It enters on the ulnar side, and is directed towards the proximal end or base of the bone. The Third Metacarpal is easily recognised by the prominent styloid process which projects from the radial corner of the dorsal surface of the base. A little below this process the extensor carpi radialis brevior finds insertion. The carpal surface of the base is nearly plane for the magnum. The radial surface^has a long narrow facet for the second metacarpal. On the ulnar side, two rounded facets are usually seen for the fourth metacarpal. Not unfrequently one of them is absent. Muscles :— Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Second and third dorsal interosseous. Adductor pollicis. Flexor carpi radialis. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is derived from the interosseous: it enters, as a rule, on the radial side, and is directed towards the base. The Fourth Metacarpal has a very small base. By its carpal surface it articu- lates with the unciform. The radial surface has two rounded facets for the third metacarpal; there is a small facet for the magnum at the posterior radial corner. The ulnar side has a narrow articular surface for the fifth metacarpal.