36 THE SKELETON The posterior surface is bounded above by the superior border, which serves for the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli, and is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus; near the apex, this border presents the trigeminal notch (converted into a foramen by the tentorium) for the transmission of the trigeminal nerve. This border in old skulls sometimes terminates in a spiculum of bone—the petro-sphe- noidal process—and extends to the dorsum ephippii, and completes a foramen ( petro-sphenoidal) which transmits the sixth nerve. Near the middle of the posterior surface is an oblique inlet, the internal auditory meatus, which receives Fig. 44.—The Left Temporal Bone. (Inner view.) .the auditory and facial nerves and the auditory artery. The meatus is about 10 mm. deep, and to be properly examined the surface of the bone should be cut away, or the parts studied in the petrosal of a foetus at or near the ninth month, for it is at this date relatively large and shallow. The fundus of the meatus is divided by a transverse ridge of bone, the falciform crest, into a superior and inferior fossa, Of these, the superior is the smaller, and presents anteriorly the beginning of the aqueduct of Fallopius ; this transmits the seventh nerve. The rest of the sur- face above the crest is dotted with small foramina (the superior cribriform area) which transmit nerve-twigs to the fovea hemielliptica and the ampullae of the superior and external semicircular canals. Below the crest there are two depressions and an opening. Of these, an anterior curled Fig. 4.3.—The Foramina in the Fundus of the Left Internal Auditory Meatus of a Child at Birth (y). (Diagrammatic.) SUPERIOR FOSSA SUPERIOR CRIBRIFORM AREA MIDDLE CRIBRIFORM AREA FORAMEN SINGU ENTRANCE TO THE AQUEDUCT OF FALLOPIUS FALCIFORM CREST •r?" I ORIFICE OF THE CANAL OF THE MODIOLUS LAKE 0v -:;»,• ;? SPIRAL CRIBRIFORM TRACT tract (the spiral cribriform tract) with a central foramen (foramen centrale cochleare) marks the base of the cochlea; the central foramen indicates the orifice of the canal of the modio- lus, and the smaller foramina transmit the cochlear twigs of the auditory nerve. The pos- terior opening (foramen singulare) is for the nerve to the ampulla of the _ posterior semicircular canal. The middle depression (middle cribriform area) is dotted with minute foramina for the oerve-twigs to the saccule, which is lodged in the fovea hemisjiherica. The inferior fossa is sub- divided by a low vertical crest. The fossa in front of the crest is the fnssula cochlcaris, and the recess behind it is the fnssida vestibularis. Behind the meatus is a small slit (aqueductus vestibuli) which lodges the ductus endolymphaticus; in the adult it is occupied by a small arteriole and venule