DORS A LIS PEDIS 601 branches with the collateral digital branches of the digital arteries, which also run along the sides of the toes, but nearer the plantar surface. At the end of the toes they anastomose with each other around the quick of the nail. (3) The dorsalis hallucis—or first dorsal interosseous artery, as it is some- times called—is the apparent continuation of the dorsalis pedis. Like the other dorsal interosseous arteries, it passes forwards, in the centre of the first interosseous space, on the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At the cleft of the toes it divides into two dorsal digital branches—the one for the supply of the outer side of the great toe, the other for the inner side of the second toe. Before its bifurcation the dorsalis hallucis "gives off a small branch, which runs inwards, under the extensor longus hallucis, for the supply of the inner side of the great toe; but this branch is sometimes absent. At the front of the space, immediately before its bifurcation, the dorsalis hallucis communicates with the fifth plantar digital artery, or princeps hallucis, through an anterior perforating artery (fig. 381). (4) The communicating—first interosseous perforating, or plantar digital artery, as it is variously called—comes off from the dorsalis pedis with the dorsalis hallucis (into which arteries indeed the dorsalis pedis may be said to divide). At the back of the first interosseous space it dips into the sole between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and communicates with the termination of the external plantar artery, completing the plantar arch, in a manner similar to that in which the radial artery, passing through the first dorsal interosseous muscle in the hand, completes by inosculating with the ulnar the deep palmar arch. At the spot where it joins the external plantar it gives off the fifth plantar digital artery, or princeps hallucis, which runs forwards in the centre of the first inter- osseous space to the cleft between the first and second toe, where it divides into collateral branches for the adjacent side of each. Before bifurcating, it supplies a branch to the inner side of the great toe, and receives the anterior communicating artery from the dorsalis hallucis.