SERRATUS POSTICUS INFERIOR—VERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS 413 Relations.—Superficially, the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor and major; deeply, the vertebral aponeurosis which separates it from the splenius and the more superficial spinal muscles; farther outwards the muscle covers part of the external intercostals. Variations.—The slips vary in number. Sometimes it gives off a slip from its upper border or posterior surface which goes to the levator anguli scapula:, the mastoid process, or the superior nuchal line. 2. SERRATUS POSTICUS INFERIOR The serratus posticus inferior—named also from its outer saw-like margin, and its position—is a quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—The spines of the two lower thoracic and two upper lumbar vertebra?. Insertion.—The lower borders of the last four or five ribs external to their angles, except in the case of the last rib which has no angle; and as far forw ards as the costal origins of the latissimus dorsi. Structure.—More than half of the muscle is aponeurosis, which is blended with that of the latissimus dorsi on its superficial, and of the erector spinas on its deep aspect, and forms a part of the vertebral aponeurosis, which blends with the pos- terior layer of the lumbar fascia. The fleshy fibres are directed upwards and out- wards from this aponeurosis, arising in an oblique line which is nearer the spine above than below, and inserted directly, or with small tendinous attachments into the ribs. Each succeeding tooth slightly overlaps, and extends farther forwards than the one below. The middle teeth are the largest. Nerve-supply.—Filaments from the tenth and eleventh intercostals which enter the deep surface of the outer part of the muscle. Action.—(1) To depress the lower ribs; (2) to fix them, so as to enable the diaphragm to contract. It is therefore in this respect a muscle of inspiration. Relations.—Superficially, the latissimus dorsi; deeply, the erector spinas with its upward continuations, also the levatores costarum, and the external intercostal muscles. GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF THE MUSCLES ACTING UPON THE SPINAL COLUMN THE VERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS Beneath the serrati postici are arranged what may be called the muscles of the back proper, viz. those which move the vertebral column and act chiefly upon the spines and transverse processes of the vertebras and the parts of the skull which are serially continuous with them. They lie for the most part in the groove on either side of the spines of the vertebras, and they are bound down and protected by the strong vertebral aponeurosis which is blended below with the tendinous origin of the latissimus dorsi, the serratus posticus inferior, and the erector spinas. Laterally, it is attached to the angles of the ribs. Above, it passes beneath the tendon of the serratus posticus superior, and is then lost in the thin fascia covering the splenii. The back muscles proper may be arranged according to their direction into two great divisions, each of which contains two classes. The vertical division consists of muscles which run between similar points of bone, and its two classes will contain the spinales, which connect the spines of the vertebras with one another and with the mesial portion of the occipital bone; the transversales, which connect the transverse processes of the sacral and lumbar regions with the transverse pro- cesses and the adjacent portions of the ribs in the thoracic region, the articular and transverse processes in the cervical region, and the mastoid process at the upper end of the spinal column. The oblique division consists of muscles which run obliquely, and contains two classes: the spino-transversalcs, which run upwards and outwards from spine to transverse process, or to a point of bone which corresponds