FOURTH VENTRICLE—PONS VAROLII 719 The floor of the fourth ventricle is a depressed area, which is rhomhoidal in outline, the longer diameter of the rhomboid being directed upwards and forwards and marked by a very distinct fissure, the sulcus longitudinalis medianus, which is continuous below with the central canal of the spinal cord. The ventricular floor is bounded laterally by the clavae and corpora restiformia below, by the middle peduncles of the cerebellum in the middle, and by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum above. Under cover of the obex, where the fourth ventricle is about to join the central canal of the cord, a small ampulla is formed, termed the ventricle of Arantius. The widest part of the floor corresponds to the lateral recesses of the ventricle. Close behind the lateral recesses, the floor is crossed by some white lines, the striae medullares or striae acusticae, which emerge from the sulcus longitudinalis medianus, and pass outwards to the auditory nerve. The striae divide the floor into two approximately equal parts, an inferior and a superior. The inferior moiety of the floor is indented by an angular groove, the fovea inferior or posterior, which marks off a depressed triangular area of a grey colour, the ala cinerea. The latter corresponds in position to the subjacent nuclei of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and is therefore also termed the trigo- num vagi. The apex of the posterior fovea is directed forwards. It nearly touches the striae acusticae, and thus two other triangular areas, both of a whitish colour, are marked off in the inferior moiety of the floor. The internal of these areas is called the trigonum hypoglossi, since it corresponds in position to the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve. It is bounded by the inferior fovea, the striae acusticae, and the sulcus longitudinalis medianus. The outer triangle is bounded by the inferior fovea, by the striae acusticae, and by the clavae. It forms the inferior part of a prominence or swelling which extends into the pontine portion of the floor. This prominence is called the tuberculum acusticum. It is well marked in the brain of the infant. The superior moiety of the floor is completely covered by a thin layer of white substance. It presents, on each side of the sulcus longitudinalis medianus, a semi- cylindrical elevation about five millimetres in length, which is called theeminentia teres. It is caused by an underlying bundle of fibres, the fasciculus teres, which is now known to be a part of the intrapontine course of the fibres of the facial nerve, though possibly it may contain fibres from other sources. External to the eminentia teres is a depressed area, the fovea superior, which is occasion- ally crossed by a whitish band of fibres, the conductor sonorus. The conductor sonorus meets the stria medullaris of its own side, at the sulcus longitudinalis medianus, at an acute angle. Immediately in front of the fovea superior is a bluish spot, the locus caeruleus, which is caused by the substantia ferruginea showing through the white covering of the floor. The substantia ferruginea is an aggre- gation of darkly-pigmented cells, which is very conspicuous in transverse sections through the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle and through the lower part of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The PONS VAROLII is that portion of the epencephalon which lies in front of the proximal part of the fourth ventricle. As seen from the base of the brain, it forms a considerable prominence, which narrows on each side as it passes into the middle cerebral peduncles. At its lower border the pyramidal bodies are seen disappear- ing into its substance, while at its upper border the crura cerebri are seen emerging. It rests on the body of the sphenoid bone, reaching upwards as far as the margin of the dorsum sellae. It presents a ventral and a dorsal surface, and a superior and an inferior border. Lateral surfaces have also been described, but these are determined artificially by dividing the pons proper from the middle cerebellar peduncles. The boundary between the pons and the middle cerebellar peduncles on each side is arbitrarily mapped out by a line drawn from the exit of the trigeminal nerve to the superficial origin of the facial. (Henle. ) The dorsal surface has been described in connection with the floor of the fourth ventricle. The ventral surface is broad and prominent, strongly convex from side to side, and slightly convex from before backwards. It presents a transverse striation, cor- responding to the bundles of commissural fibres passing from hemisphere to