145 THE PELVIS In the fourth month a nucleus is seen in the pubic portion of the cartilage. At birth these three nuclei are of considerable size, but surrounded by relatively wide tracts of cartilage. At the twelfth year the triradiate cartilage which separates the three segments of the innominate bone at the acetabulum begins to ossify by several centres, which unite with the surrounding elements causing their consolidation from the eighteenth to the twentieth year. One of these nuclei is larger than the others and is the acetabular nucleus. The segment it forms is regarded by some morpholo- gists as the representative of the cotyloid or acetabular bone constantly present in a few mammals, and is of sufficient size to exclude the pubes from the cotyloid cavity. During the eighth year the rami of the ischium and pubes coalesce. About the fifteenth year two secondary nuclei appear in the iliac cartilage to form the crest and the anterior inferior spine. An accessory nucleus appears for the ischial tuber- osity, and subsequently one for the pubic crest. These fuse with the main bone about the twentieth year. The fibrous tissue connected with the pubic spine repre- sents the epipubic bone of marsupial mammals. THE PELVIS The pelvis is composed of four bones: the two hip-bones, the sacrum, and the coccyx. The hip-bones form the lateral and anterior boundaries, meeting each other to form the pubic symphysis; posteriorly they are separated by the sacrum. The hollow of the pelvis is divided into the false and true pelvic cavity. Fig. 157.—The Pelvis (Male). The false pelvis is that part of the cavity which lies above the ilio-pectineal lines; this part is in relation with the hypogastric and inguinal regions. The true pelvis is situated below the ilio-pectineal lines. The upper circum- ference, called also the inlet of the pelvis, is bounded anteriorly by the spine and crest of the pubes, posteriorly by the base of the sacrum, and laterally by the ilio- pectineal lines. The inlet in normal pelves is cordate, being obtusely pointed in Irorfc; posteriorly it is encroached upon by the promontory of the sacrum. It has three principal diameters; of these, the antero-posterior, called the conjugate 10