RELATION OF KIDNEYS TO ABDOMINAL WALLS 1119 of the spine. This portion of the intestine being firmly secured in place by fibres from the left crus of the diaphragm and the commencement of the mesentery, accounts for rupture of the intestine usually occurring near this spot. Of the jejunum and ileum it may be said that, if undistended, the coils of the jejunum (about eight feet) occupy rather the left side, and that of the ileum (twelve feet), the right side, in addition to the central regions, where the jejunum would be chiefly above, and the ileum below. According to Mr. Treves, the coils most usually found in the pelvis belong to the terminal part of the ileum, and that part of the intestine which has the longest mesentery, viz.: that extending between two points respectively six and eleven feet from the end of the duodenum. But as there is no definite limit between the jejunum and ileum, so is there no regular arrangement of their coils. If present, a Meckel's diverticulum would arise from one to three feet from the termination of the ileum. The upper limit of the mesentery would be marked by a spot about three inches above the umbilicus and a little to the left of the centre of the body of the second lumbar vertebra. From this point it extends obliquely to the right iliac fossa, where it ends in the ileo-ceecal junction, about four inches above the centre of Poupart's ligament. Its average length is about eight inches. (B) Large intestine.—The caecum measuring about two and a half inches both in its vertical and transverse diameters, lies in front of the ilio-psoas, and should be so mapped out behind the anterior abdominal wall as to lie above the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and with its apex or lowest point projecting just beyond the inner border of the psoas, and thus corresponding to a point a little to the inner side of the centre of Poupart's ligament. Not unfrequently it lies more external, still in the right iliac region, but entirely on the iliacus. The ileo-caecal valve, or junction of the small and large intestines, corresponds to a point about two inches internal to and a little above the anterior superior spine. The base of the vermiform appendix, which usually comes off close to the valve on the posterior wall of the csecum, would.be represented by the above point with sufficient accuracy. The appendix itself, averaging four inches in length, of the size of a goose-quill, and usually twisted on itself owing to the shortness of its mesentery, generally projects behind the csecum, ileum, and mesentery, in the direction of the spleen (Treves), or downwards to the left, so as to approach the brim of the pelvis. The ascending colon, covered by small intestine, lies deeply as it passes up over the kidney through the right lumbar region. The hepatic and splenic flexures lie deeply also in the hypochondriac regions, the splenic being higher than the hepatic, and behind the stomach, while the former is in contact with the under surface of the liver. Between the two courses the transverse colon, in close contact with the great curvature of the stomach, and varying in position from one, two, or three inches above the umbilicus, to one nearer or even below this point. The descending colon follows a similar course to the ascend- ing; and the sigmoid flexure occupies the left iliac fossa, and from this point passes over the brim of the pelvis. Except at its hepatic and splenic flexures, the colon can be examined through the parietes, aided by an anaesthetic. The csscum is the most superficial of all. Landmarks for lumbar colotomy.—(1) The lower border and tip of the last rib, which varies in length; (2) a point half an inch behind the centre of the iliac crest, this point being found by accurate measurement along the crest between the anterior and posterior spines (Allingham); (3) a line drawn vertically upwards from the last-mentioned point to the last rib. This gives with sufficient correct- ness the line of the outer edge of the quadratus, and the position of a normal colon. Iliac or anterior colotomy.—The incision here, whether for opening the sigmoid flexure or the caecum, is one, two and a half, or three inches long, made parallel with the outer part of Poupart's ligament, and one and a half inches above it. The kidneys.—These lie at the back of the abdominal cavity so deeply in the hypochondriac and epigastric region as to be beyond palpation, unless enlarged or unduly mobile. The lower end of the right being slightly lower than its fellow, encroaches in health upon the lumbar and epigastric region. These organs lie much