THE MUSCLES 290 with the spinal accessory, enter with it the deep surface of the muscle a short distance above the clavicle. Action.—Its upper fibres draw upwards the outer end of the clavicle and the point of the shoulder; and acting from below, they extend the head, flex the neck towards the same side, and turn the face to the opposite side. Its middle fibres draw the scapula inwards towards the spine; at the same time they produce a rotation of the scapula on the thorax, by which the point of the shoulder is raised. The lower fibres draw the scapula downwards and inwards, and at the same time rotate it so as to raise the point of the shoulder. Acting as a whole, the muscle draws the scapula towards the middle line of the back, and elevates the shoulder by the rotation it impresses upon the shoulder blade. By drawing the scapula backwards, it gives some help to the pectoralis minor and other muscles which elevate the ribs in forced inspiration. When it takes its fixed point from the shoulder blade and clavicle, as when the hand grasps firmly some immovable object, the muscle will draw the spines of the vertebrae towards the scapula. The presence of the oval aponeurotic patch may be explained by the fact that the range of movement of the scapula in a horizontal direction backwards and inwards is more limited than when the inward movement is combined with an upward or downward direction. This limitation is due to the ligamentous attach- ments of the clavicle and shoulder blade. Relations.—Superficially, the integuments and subcutaneous nerves; deeply, the complexus, splenii, serratus posticus superior, rhomboidei, the vertebral apo- neurosis covering the continuations upwards of the erector spinas, the external intercostals, latissimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulas, omo-hyoid, scalenus medius and posticus, the supraspinatus, and a small portion of the infraspinatus. Variations.—Occasionally the upper or the lower part of its origin may fail. The clavicular part of its insertion sometimes extends far forwards upon the clavicle. Frequently fibres pass from its anterior border to the inner end of the clavicle either in front of or behind the sterno- mastoid, forming an arch under which run some of the superficial cervical nerves. This arch may even extend to the sternum. A similar transverse band is occasionally found in the upper part of the posterior triangle, the transversus nuchce. Sometimes a longitudinal baud of fibres covers the spinal origin of the trapezius. Second Layer Consists of four muscles—the levator anguli scapulas, rhomboideus minor and major; and the latissimus dorsi. 1. LEVATOR ANGULI SCAPULA The levator anguli scapulae (figs. 263 and 266), named from its action in raising the posterior superior angle of the scapula, is a ribbon-shaped muscle. Origin.—By four short tendons from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebras. Insertion.—The vertebral border of the scapula opposite the supraspinous fossa. Structure.—The tendons of origin, which are closely connected with the inser- tion of the splenitis colli, after a short course are succeeded by muscular fasciculi, and these unite to form a thick band of parallel fibres which remain fleshy to their insertion. The plane of the muscle changes as it descends. Above, while lying in the posterior triangle of the neck, its surfaces look outwards and inwards; below, they are directed backwards and forwards. Nerve-supply.—From the cervical plexus by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerve which enter the front of the outer surface near the origin of the muscle. Action.—It raises the posterior superior angle of the scapula; but, by causing