1042 THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS part of the male canal, and is similarly related to the superior and inferior triangular ligaments. It is about an inch and a half (37 mm.) in length, and is directed upwards and slightly backwards to open into the bladder about an inch (25 mm.) behind the middle of the symphysis. Its posterior wall is in contact with the vagina, and it is surrounded in front and at the sides by a plexus of veins (plexus of Santorini). The posterior margin of the meatus usually presents a tubercular prominence by which the position of the orifice may be distinguished during catheterism. As in the male urethra, the narrowest portion of the canal is the external meatus, but the whole tube is sufficiently dilatable in most cases to allow the careful intro- duction of the ringer while the patient is under an anaesthetic. A case is recorded by William Cowper (1697) in which, as a result of an imperforate condition of the hymen, it became the channel of sexual congress. Structurally it consists of a highly elastic mucous membrane and a strong mus- cular coat. The mucosa is lined with three or four layers of epithelial cells, the more superficial of which are prismatic in form, and presents a few lacunas and some rudimentary glandular follicles. The muscular coat is divisible into external circular and internal longitudinal layers, both intermingled with fibres of elastic tissue and with large venous plexuses which may undergo varicose dilatation near the external orifice and form a pile-like tumour. The circular fibres are very strongly developed at the vesical end of the canal and constitute a powerful sphincter; these are surrounded by a quantity of striped and unstriped fibres which form an incomplete ring, deficient only in its posterior or vaginal segment, and probably represent the prostatic fibres and the deep transversus perinsei of the male. It is surrounded by a muscular sphincter composed of striped and unstriped fibre corresponding to the deep transversus perinsei in the male, and partly, perhaps, to the musculature of the prostate. THE VAGINA The vagina is a passage which extends upwards and slightly backwards from its external opening at the vestibule, and terminates above by embracing the neck of the uterus. Its vulvar aperture is guarded in the virgin by a fold of mucous membrane called the hymen. Form and direction (figs. 633, 634).—In its ordinary condition the vaginal canal is represented by a fissure which in horizontal section assumes the form of the letter H, with a transverse limb about an inch in length and two short verti- cal limbs (fig. 633). In longitudinal section (fig. 633) the fissure branches above, a short limb (occasionally ill-marked or absent) passing in front of the anterior lip of the os uteri, a much longer limb extending behind the os to end about three- quarters of aii inch above the extremity of the posterior lip. The angle of reflexion of the vaginal on to the uterine mucous membrane is called the fornix. The direction of the passage is upwards and backwards, forming an angle of about 30° with the long axis of the body, and usually presenting a slight posterior concavity adapted to the convexity of the rectal ampulla; the course and direction, however, vary with the degree of pelvic inclination peculiar to the individual, and to some extent with the condition of the bladder and rectum. The two walls are of very unequal length, the anterior measuring about two inches and three-quarters (7 cm.), while the posterior is prolonged upwards nearly an inch (9.5 cm.) further. Relations.—Anteriorly, it is opposed to the urethra and posterior wall of the bladder. It is intimately united with the lower two-thirds of the urethra, but is separated from the upper third and from the bladder by loose connective tissue continuous with the subperitoneal fascia. The canal as a whole is narrowest below, and gradually increases as it ascends, reaching its greatest admeasurement where it surrounds the os uteri. Its dilatability is enormous, as may be inferred from the passage of the foetus in parturition. The ureters pierce the vesical wall in front of the vagina an inch and a quarter below the level of the os uteri. Posteriorly, it is in relation with the rectum, but is separated from it above for about three-