15 THE SACRUM THE SACRUM This is a large triangular bone, firmly wedged between the innominate bones. It forms the posterior boundary of the true pelvic cavity. The sacrum is curved upon itself with the concavity looking forwards. The upper end of the curve forms, with the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, an anterior projection known as the promontory. The middle portion of the anterior face of the sacrum exhibits four transverse ridges corresponding to the intervertebral spaces. The intervening portions are the bodies of the vertebrae. The upper two sacral verte- bra? are almost equal in size to those of the lumbar series, but the three lower rapidly diminish in size from above downwards. The ridges terminate laterally in the anterior sacral foramina, four pairs in all, which are the interverte- bral foramina of the sacral vertebras, and transmit the anterior divisions of the first Fig. 17.—The Sacrum and Coccyx. (Anterior view.) four sacral nerves. The upper two are also traversed by the lateral sacral arteries. The bone immediately outside the foramina corresponds to the costal processes, and the portion formed by the second, third, and fourth sacral vertebras gives origin to the pyriformis muscle. The lateral part of the fifth sacral vertebra gives partial insertion to the coecygeus. The posterior surface is strongly convex and rough. The middle line is occupied by four tubercles representing the suppressed spinous processes. Of these the first is the largest, the second and third may be confluent, and the fourth is often absent. The bone on each side of the spines is formed by the ankylosed laminae. In the fourth sometimes, but always in the fifth, the laminae fail to meet in the middle line, and this leaves a gap, the hiatus sacralis. The median borders of this hiatus are prolonged downwards as rounded processes, the sacral cornua, to which the posterior sacro-coccygeal ligaments are attached. External to the laminae is a second series of small prominences: these are the articular