THE VEINS 634 of the left renal vein may open. (7) It may receive several accessory renal veins; as many as seven on each side have been met with. (8) The lumbar veins may enter it on one or both sides as a common trunk. (8) THE COMMON ILIAC VEINS The common iliac veins are formed opposite the sacro-iliac synchondrosis by the confluence of the external iliac and internal iliac veins. They converge as they ascend, and unite opposite the upper border of the fifth lumbar vertebra to form the vena cava inferior a little to the right of the median line. The right vein, shorter and more vertical in direction than the left, passes obliquely behind the right common iliac artery to its outer side, where it is joined by the left common iliac vein. The left vein lies to the inner side of the left common iliac artery, and, after crossing in front of the promontory of the sacrum and fifth lumbar vertebra below the bifurcation of the aorta, passes beneath the right common iliac artery to join the right vein and form the inferior vena cava. The left vein may contain an imperfect valve. Tributaries.—The ilio-lumbar veins may enter the lower part of the common iliac, or open into the internal iliac vein. The left vein receives the middle sacral veins. (« ) The ilio-lumbar veins follow the course of the ilio-lumbar artery, and end either in the common iliac or in the internal iliac vein. (b) The middle sacral veins ascend on either side of the middle sacral artery in front of the sacrum, to open usually by a single trunk into the left common iliac vein. They communicate with the lateral sacral veins, forming the so-called pre- sacral plexus. Below, the middle sacral veins communicate with the haemorrhoidal veins. Chief Variations in the Common Iliac Veins (1) Either common iliac vein maybe double, or double only for a portion of its extent. (2) One may be absent,—the external and internal iliac veins joining the opposite common iliac to form the vena cava, (3) The right and left internal iliac veins may unite and open as a common trunk at the confluence of the right and left external iliac veins to form the vena cava. (4) The middle sacral trunk vein may divide, and one branch open into the right, and the other into the left common iliac vein. THE PORTAL VEIN AND ITS TRIBUTARIES The veins corresponding to the inferior mesenteric, the superior mesenteric, and the branches of the cceliac artery, with the exception of the terminal branches of the hepatic artery, do not join the inferior vena cava direct, but unite to form a common trunk—the portal vein. Tins vein enters the liver, and breaks up in its substance into capillaries like an artery, from which the blood is again ultimately collected by the hepatic veins, and carried by them into the inferior vena cava. The terminal branches of tbe hepatic artery also break up in the liver into capillaries, and from them the blood likewise finds its way finally into the hepatic veins, and thence into the inferior vena cava. Thus the arterial blood, leaving the aorta for the supply of the stom- ach, the intestines, the pancreas (the so-called chylopoetic viscera), and the spleen, passes, before it reaches the vena cava, through two sets of capillaries: viz. the capillaries of the viscera and the capillaries of the liver. Hence the portal system of veins may be said to terminate in capillaries at each end; to begin, like other veins, in capillaries in the viscera; but, unlike other veins, to end in capillaries like an artery, instead of in a larger and larger vein till the auricle is reached. The portal vein and its tributaries have no valves. The portal vein is a thick trunk about three inches in length (7-8 cm.). It is formed behind the pancreas, opposite the right side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, by the union of the superior mesenteric with the splenic vein. After passing behind the first part of the duodenum, and then between the layers