452 THE MUSCLES muscles will be described later; the former or extrinsic muscles constitute a group which is nearly related to those which have been just described. It consists of four muscles—viz. the genio-hyo-glossus, the hyo-glossus, the stylo-glossus, and the palato-glossus. 1. GENIO-HYO-GLOSSUS The genio-hyo-glossus—named from its attachment to the chin (jiveiov), hyoid bone, and tongue (jkwgaa), is a flat sheet forming the quadrant or, more correctly, the sector of a circle, and separated from its fellow by a thin stratum of connective tissue, the septum of the tongue. Origin.—The upper genial tubercle. Insertion.—(1) The whole length of the tongue in the submucous tissue just external to the median plane, from the tip along the dorsum to the root; (2) the upper part of the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone; (3) by a few fibres into the side of the pharynx. Structure.—Its origin is by a short tendon, from which its fleshy fibres diverge in a fan-shaped sheet to their extensive insertion. Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal, by filaments which enter its outer surface. Action.—(1) To draw downwards and forwards the mesial portion of the tongue so as to make its dorsum concave upwards in a transverse direction; (2) by its anterior fibres to drawback the tip of the protruded tongue; (3) by fibres which pass to the back part of the dorsum of the tongue to draw it forwards, and protrude the tongue; (4) by its lowest fibres to draw upwards and forwards the hyoid bone, and so help the genio-hyoid and anterior belly of the digastric in raising the tongue; (5) acting from below, its hyoid portion will help in depressing the lower jaw. Relations.—Externally, the inferior lingualis, hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus muscles, the ranine artery, the terminal branches of the hypoglossal and lingual gustatory nerves, the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, the sublingual gland, and Wharton's duct; internally, the fellow muscle and septum lingua?; along its lower border, the genio-hyoid muscle. 2. HYO-GLOSSUS The hyo-glossus—named from its attachments to the hyoid bone and tongue (y/.w/rva)—is a thin square sheet. Origin.—(1) From the front of the hyoid bone near the upper border of the outer third of its body; (2) from the upper border of all its great cornu; (3) by a small slip from the lesser cornu. Insertion.—The submucous tissue and adjacent muscular mass of the posterior half of the tongue external to the preceding muscle. Structure.—The fleshy fibres arise directly from the bone in a thin sheet, and ascend nearly parallel to one another. The anterior fibres, however, diverge slightly forwards, and they all, having reached the upper surface of the sides of tbe tongue, course inwards, interlacing with the fibres of the palato-glossus and super- ficial lingualis to form a submucous cover to the tongue. Those which arise from the lesser cornu'are often described as a distinct muscle, the chondro-glossus, which is separated from the rest of the muscle by some bundles which pass from the lower part of the genio-hyo-glossus to the superior constrictor. Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal nerve, which sends filaments into its outer surface. Action.—(1) To draw downwards the sides of the tongue, increasing its trans- verse convexity; (2) to draw backwards the protruded tongue. Relations.—Externally, the mylo-hyoid, digastric, stylo-hyoid, and stylo- glossus muscles, the lingual vein, lingual gustatory and hypoglossal nerves, the submaxillary gland and Wharton's duct; deeply, the inferior lingualis, genio-hyo- glossus, middle constrictor, and part of the origin of the superior constrictor, the lingual artery, and glosso-pharyngeal nerve.