201 OF THE PELVIS interosseous, or symphysial, cartilage. The bones which enter into the joint are the sacrum and ilium, and they are bound together by the following ligaments:— Anterior sacro-iliac. Superior sacroiliac. Posterior sacro-iliac. Inferior sacro-iliac. Interosseous. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament (figs. 206 and 207) consists of well-marked glistening fibres which pass above into the superior, and below into the inferior, ligaments. It extends from the first three bones of the sacrum to the ilium befrv\*een the brim of the true pelvis and the great sacro-sciatic notch, blending with the periosteum of the sacrum and ilium as it passes away from the united edges of the bones. The superior sacro-iliac ligament (figs. 206 and 207) extends across the upper margins of the joint, from the base of the sacrum to the iliac fossa, being well Fig. 207.—Vertical Anteroposterior Section of the Pelvis. Superior sacro-iliac ligament Anterior sacro-iliac ligament Inferior sacro-iliac ligament Small sacro-seiatic ligament Great saero-sciatic ligament marked along the brim of the pelvis, where it is thickened by some closely-packed fibres. Behind, it is far stronger, especially beneath the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra. This ligament is connected with the strong sacro-lumbar ligament, which spreads outwards and forwards over the joint to reach the iliac fossa and ilio-pectineal line. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament is of very great strength, extending between the back of the sacrum and the posterior two inches of the iliac crest, including the posterior superior spine. Strengthening the upper and back part of this fibrous expansion are some strong bundles of ligamentous fibres, which extend more or less transversely from the inner surface of the iliac crest: (i) to the articular process of the first sacral vertebra; (ii) to the bone between the articular process and the first sacral foramen; and (iii) to the articular tubercle of the second saci'al vertebra, forming a ridge over the second sacral foramen under which the nerve passes; an oblique band often connects this last fasciculus with the articular process of the first sacral vertebra. Below this, the fibres pass downwards and inwards from the