THE BRAIN AND THE WALLS OF THE CRANIAL CAVITY 727 The adult male brain weighs on an average 49'5 ounces; the female brain is somewhat lighter, and weighs from 5 to 5 '5 ounces less than the male. The cerebrum forms about 87'5 per cent, of the entire brain ; the cerebellum about 10'5 per cent.; and the pons and medulla about 2 per cent. Weight of the Sinned Corel In the adult, the spinal cord, when all extraneous structures have been removed, weighs from 1 to 1'5 ounces. For description of Cranio-cerebral Topography see Section X. THE RELATIONS OF THE BRAIN TO THE WALLS OF THE CRANIAL CAVITY In this section the subject of cranio-cerebral topography will be dealt with from a purely anatomical standpoint, for the precise methods by which the exact posi- tions of the more important fissures, sulci, convolutions, and areas can be ascer- tained and mapped out on the surface of the head in the living subject are fully described in Section X, whilst here only a very general survey of the relations of the brain to the cranial bones will be given. The parts of the brain which lie in close relation with the walls of the cranial cavity are the olfactory bulb and tract, the inferior and outer surfaces of the cerebral hemispheres, the lower surfaces of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum, the anterior surfaces of the medulla and pons, and the pituitary body. Certain of these portions of the brain lie in relation with the basi-cranial axis,— that is, with the basi-occipital, the basi-sphenoid, and the ethmoid bones,—whilst others are separated by the membranes only from the sides and vault of the cranial space. Considering the former portions first, the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata, which is formed by the anterior pyramids, lies, posteriorly, upon the upper surface of the basi-occipital bone. More anteriorly the anterior surface of the pons rests upon the basi-sphenoid, from which it is partly separated by the basilar artery and the sixth pair of cranial nerves. In front of the dorsum sellse the pituitary body is lodged in the pituitary fossa; still further forwards the olfactory tracts lie in grooves on the upper surface of the presphenoid section of the sphe- noid bone; and in front of the sphenoid the olfactory bulbs rest upon the cribriform plates of the ethmoid. Behind and laterally to the posterior part of the foramen magnum the lateral lobes of the cerebellum are in relation with the cranial Avail, resting upon the lower parts of the supra- and the posterior parts of the ex-occipital portions of the occipital bone, whilst, anteriorly, each is in relation with the inner surface of the mastoid pro- cess and the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The area of the skull wall which is in close relationship with the cerebellar hemispheres may be indicated, on the external surface of the skull, by a line which commences from the lower part of the external occipital protuberance; thence it runs upwards and outwards. It crosses the superior curved line a little beyond its centre, and, continuing in the same direction, it crosses the lower part of the lambdoid suture and reaches a point directly above the asterion (the meeting-point of the occipital, temporal, and parietal bones), whence it descends, just in front of the occipito- mastoid suture, to the tip of the mastoid process; there it turns inwards to its ter- mination at the margin of the foramen magnum, immediately behind the posterior end of the occipital condyle. The other portions of the brain which lie in close relation with the cranial walls are the lower and external surfaces of the cerebral hemispheres. The lower surface of each cerebral hemisphere consists of two parts, an anterior and a posterior,-which are separated by the stem of the Sylvian fissure. The anterior part, formed by the orbital surface of the frontal lobe, rests upon the upper