11SS THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGAXS of these structures, which usually prevents popliteal aneurism and abscess from making their way into the joint. The popliteal vein, intimately adherent to the artery, lies to the outer side above, but crosses to its inner side below. The walls of this vein are thicker and denser than those of any other vein (Tillaux). The popliteal sheath is also unusually strong. The internal popliteal nerve crosses the artery in the same direction as the vein by which it is separated from the artery. This nerve is the direct continuation of the great sciatic nerve (fig. 753). The superior articular arteries course outwards and inwards immediately above the condyles; the inferior ones lie just above the head of the fibula and below the internal tuberosity of the tibia (fig. 756). The deep part of the anasto- motic artery runs in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus; the superficial with the internal saphenous nerve. Fig. 753.—Deep View of the Popliteal Space. (Hirschfeld and Leveill6.) H it: Adductor magnus Popliteal rein Popliteal artery INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE Vastus interims Superior internal articular artery Tendon of semi-membranosus Inner head of gastrocnemius Inferior internal articular artery Popliteal rein Popliteus -^H Tendon of plantaris Vastus externus GREA T SCIA TIC NER VE Short head of biceps XTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE Long head of biceps, cut Outer head of gastrocnemius yillVNICANS PER0NE1 NERVE Gastrocnemius External saphenous rein and nerve The external saphenous vein perforates the roof of the popliteal space in its lower part. As a rule, it is not visible unless enlarged. The popliteal glands are not to be felt unless enlarged. Bursae in the popliteal space.—These have been already spoken of (page 1187). THE LEG Bony landmarks.—From the tubercle of the tibia descends the anterior border or 'shin.' This soon becomes sharp, and continues so for its upper two-thirds; in the lower third it disappears, to be overlaid by the extensor tendons. It is curved somewhat outwards above, and inwards below. The inner border can also be felt from the inner tuberosity to the internal malleolus. Between these two borders lies the internal surface, subcutaneous, save above, where it is covered by the three tendons of insertion of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus, and, overlying them, that of the sartorius. The tibia is narrowest and weakest at the junction of