583 BRANCHES OF COMMON FEMORAL A. Branches of the Common Femoral (1) The superficial epigastric artery comes off from the femoral about half an inch below Poupart's ligament. At its origin it is beneath the fascia lata, but almost at once passes through this fascia, or else through the saphenous opening, and courses upwards and inwards in front of the external oblique muscle almost as far as the umbilicus. It ends in numerous small twigs, which anastomose with the cutaneous branches from the deep epigastric, and internal mammary. In its course it gives off small branches to the inguinal glands and to the skin and super- ficial fascise. Running with it is the superficial epigastric vein, which ends in the long saphenous just before the latter passes through the saphenous opening. (2) The superficial circumflex iliac artery (fig. 372), usually smaller than the superficial epigastric, arises either in common with that vessel, or else as a separate branch from the femoral. It passes upwards and outwards over the iliacus, and, soon perforating the fascia lata a little to the outer side of the saphe- nous opening, runs more or less parallel to Poupart's ligament about as far as the crest of the ilium, where it ends in branches which anastomose with the deep cir- cumflex iliac artery. In its course it gives off branches to the iliacus and sartorius muscles, to the inguinal glands, and to the fascia and skin. Its companion vein, the superficial circumflex iliac, ends in the long saphenous vein just before the latter passes through the saphenous opening. (3) The superficial or superior external pudic artery arises from the inner side of the femoral, either a little above or else in common with the deep or inferior external pudic. It passes either through the fascia lata, or else through the cribri- form fascia covering the saphenous opening, ascends upwards and inwards over the spermatic cord in the male, or round ligament in .the female, and divides into branches, one of which supplies the integuments above the pubes, while another descends along the penis external to the dorsal artery, with which, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, it anastomoses at the corona. In the female, this branch terminates in the preputium clitoridis, anastomosing with the dorsal artery of that organ. Small branches also descend to the scrotum and labium respectively. As it crosses the cord it anastomoses with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric. It is accompanied by two small veins, which usually join to form a single vein opening into the upper end of the long saphenous. (4) The deep or inferior external pudic artery arises from the inner side of the femoral artery, either in common with the preceding branch or a little lower down. It runs inwards beneath the deep fascia, across the pectineus and adductor longus muscles, and, perforating the fascia close to the ramus of the pubes, supplies the skin of the scrotum or the corresponding part, the labium majus, in the female, anastomosing with the superficial perinasal branch of the internal pudic. It sup- plies small twigs to the pectineus and adductor muscles as it crosses them. Its companion veins terminate as a single trunk in the long saphenous. (5) The profunda or deep femoral artery (figs. 372, 373) is the chief nutrient vessel of the thigh. It is usually given off from the back and outer part of the common femoral, about an inch and a half (4 cm.) below Poupart's ligament. At first it is a little external to the femoral, but as it runs downwards and backwards it gets behind that artery and closer to the bone. On reaching the upper border of the adductor longus muscle, it leaves the femoral, and, passing beneath the muscle, pierces the adductor magnus, and finally, much reduced in size, ends 'in the ham- string muscles. Relations.—Behind, the artery lies successively upon the iliacus, the pectineus, the adductor brevis, and adductor magnus muscles. In front, at first it is super- ficial, being merely covered by the skin, superficial and deep fasciae, and branches of the anterior crural nerve; but as it sinks behind the femoral artery, it has in front of it both the femoral and the profunda veins, and lower down the adductor longus muscle. Externally is the femur at the angle of union of the adductors longus and brevis. Internally is the pectineus at the upper part of its course. Branches of the profunda.—The profunda gives off the following branches: —(«) The external circumflex; (6) the internal circumflex: and (e) the three per-