ERECTOR SPINM—ILIO- COSTA LIS 415 Fifth Layer The fifth layer consists of vertical muscles, and contains both spinales and transversales. To the latter class belong the greater part of the erector spina' and the seven muscles which either spring from it or are serially continuous with it: viz. the ilio-costalis, accessorius ad ilio-costalem, cervicalis ascendens, longissimus dorsi, transversalis colli, trachelo-mastoid, and the spinalis dorsi. 1. ERECTOR SPIN.E The erector spinae—named from its function—is a broad and very strong membranous sheet of a triangular shape, with a layer of fleshy fibres upon its deep surface, and it divides in the lumbar region into three longitudinal series of muscles which fill the greater part of the vertebral groove. Origin.—(1) The spines of the two last thoracic, all the lumbar, and the four upper sacral vertebra?; (2) the back of the side portion of the fourth sacral ver- tebra; (3) the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, a few of these fibres being continuous with the origin of the gluteus maximus; (4) the upper part of the posterior supe- rior spine of the ilium, and the posterior fifth of the iliac crest. Insertion.—It is continuous with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, and ilio-costalis. Structure.—A strong membranous sheet, everywhere continuous except at the origin from the lower thoracic and upper lumbar spines, where it is partly divided into separate tendons. It breaks up into fleshy fibres in a line which stretches obliquely upwards and inwards from the front of the iliac origin to the last thoracic spines. Fleshy fibres also arise upon its deeper surface at a lower level, and some arise directly from the posterior superior iliac spine and the crest under cover of the tendinous origin. Nerve-supply.—The external branches of the posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves which enter its deep surface. Action.—Generally, that of extension of the lumbar spine on the pelvis; but a full account will be given with the description of the succeeding muscles. Relations.—Superficially, the vertebral aponeurosis, with which it is blended at its origin and for the first two inches (5 cm.) of its course. By this aponeurosis it therefore enters into a close relation with the lower part of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior. Deeply, the multifidus spinae, some of the fibres of which arise from it. The outer division extends upwards along the angles of the ribs and the trans- verse processes of the lower cervical vertebrae, and consists of the ilio-costalis, accessorius ad ilio-costalem, and the cervicalis ascendens. It is separated from the middle division by the external branches of the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves. Outer Division 2. ILIO-COSTALIS The ilio-costalis, or sacro-lumbalis—named from its attachment to the ilium and ribs—is an elongated muscular sheet, with a serrated outer border formed by the insertion of its tendons into the lower ribs. Origin.—The outer portion of the erector spinas. Insertion.—(1) The angles of all the ribs from the sixth to the eleventh; (2) the lower border of the last rib; (3) the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, and the fibrous processes which extend outwards from the tips of the transverse processes of the upper lumbar vertebra? into the lumbar fascia.