232 THE ARTICULATIONS (c) The Inferior Radioulnar Joint Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Trochoides. This is, in one respect, the reverse of the superior; for the radius, instead of presenting a circular head to rotate upon the facet on the ulna, presents a concave facet which rolls round the ulna. The articulation ma)T be said to consist of two parts at right angles to each other: one between the radius and ulna, and the other between the ulna and triangular fibro-cartilage. The ligaments are:— Anterior radio-ulnar. Posterior radio-ulnar. Triangular fibro-cartilage. The triangular fibro-cartilage (litis. 234 and 235) assists the radius in forming an arch under which is received the first row of carpal bones. Its base is attached to the margin of the radius, separating the sigmoid cavity from the articular surface for the carpus, while its apex is fixed to the fossa at the base of the styloid process of the ulna. It gradually and uniformly diminishes in width from base to apex, becoming rounded where it is fixed to the ulna; it is joined by fibres of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist. It is about three-eighths of an inch (1 cm.) wide, and the same from base to apex; thicker at the circumference than in the centre; smooth and concave above to adapt itself to the ulna, and smooth and slightly concave below to fit over the cuneiform bone. Its anterior and posterior borders are united to the anterior and posterior radio-ulnar and radio-carpal liga- ments. It is the most important structure in the inferior radio-carpal articulation, as it is a very firm bond of union between the lower ends of the bones, and serves to limit their movements upon one another more than any other structure in either the upper or lower radio-ulnar joints. Its structure is fibrous at the circumference, while in the centre there is a preponderance of cells.' It differs from all other fibro- cartilages in entering into two distinct articulations; and separates entirely the synovial membrane of the radio-ulnar joint from that of the wrist. The anterior radio-ulnar ligament (fig. 231) is attached by one end to the anterior edge of the sigmoid cavity of the radius, and by the other to the rough bone above the articular surface of the ulna as far inwards as the notch, as well as into the anterior margin of the triangular cartilage from base to apex. The posterior radio-ulnar ligament (fig. 232) is similarly attached to the posterior margin of the sigmoid cavity at one end, and at the other to the rough bone above the articular surface of the extremity of the ulna as far inwards as the groove for the extensor carpi ulnaris, with the sheath of which it is connected, as well as into the whole length of the posterior margin of the triangular fibro-cartilage. Both the radio-ulnar ligaments consist of thin, almost scattered, fibres, but they serve to form a capsule for the support and protection of the synovial membrane. The lower end of the interosseous membrane extends between the ulna and radius immediately above their points of contact. Transverse fibres between the two bones form a sort of arch above the concave articular facet of the radius, and, joining the anterior and posterior radio-ulnar ligaments, complete the capsule of the inferior radio-ulnar joint. The synovial membrane, sometimes called the membrana sacciformis, is large and loose in proportion to the size of the joint. It is not only interposed between the radial and ulnar articular surfaces, but lines the terminal articular surface of the ulna and the upper surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage. The arterial supply is derived from the anterior interosseous artery, and branches of the anterior carpal arch. The nerve-supply comes from the anterior interosseous of the median, and the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. The movements of the radius.—The upper end of the radius rotates upon an axis drawn through its own head and neck within the collar formed by the lesser sigmoid cavity and the orbicular ligament, while the lower end, retained in position by the triangular ligament, rolls round the head of the ulna. This rotation