THE MUSCLES 440 Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin and the subjacent muscular mass along the lower edge of the prolabium of the lower lip. Structure.—It consists of parallel muscular fibres, many of them continuous with those of the platysma myoides, which pass upwards and inwards to interlace with the fibres of the orbicularis oris along the line above mentioned. The inner margins of the muscles of the two sides meet above in the middle line. Nerve-supply.—The supramandibular branch of the low*er division of the facial nerve, which sends filaments to its deep surface near its outer border. Action.—To draw down and somewhat evert the lower lip. Relations.—Superficially, the skin and the depressor anguli oris; deeply, the facial portion of the orbicularis oris, the mental vessels, and nerve. Muscles radiating from the Mouth The two muscles which radiate from the mouth are the depressor alse nasi and the levator menti. 1. DEPRESSOR AL.E NASI The depressor alse nasi has been described with the muscles of the nose. 2. LEVATOR MENTI The levator menti, or levator labii inferioris—named from its action—is a short, thick, and somewhat fan-shaped muscle, belonging to the second .layer. Origin.—The incisive fossa of the mandible, below and a little internal to the attachment of the incisivus inferior of the orbicularis oris. Insertion.—The subcutaneous tissue just above the point of the chin. Structure.—Arising fleshy, its fibres diverge slightly as they pass downwards and inwards to meet in the middle line with those of the opposite side just below a pellet of fat which lies beneath the skin at a short distance above the point of the chin. Nerve-supply.—The supramandibular branch of the lower division of the facial nerve, which terminates in this muscle. Action.—To draw upwards the skin covering the prominence of the chin, and to elevate and shoot out the lower lip. It has been sometimes called the musculus superbus, from the haughty and contemptuous expression which it produces when it acts at the same time with the depressor anguli oris. A slighter contraction, however, gives the mouth an expression of firmness and decision. Relations.—Superficially, the mucous membrane of the mouth and the facial portion of the orbicularis oris above, the subcutaneous fat below; deeply, the mandible. MUSCLES OF MASTICATION The muscles of mastication form an independent group, four in number, occupying the back part of the side of the face, and the temporal and zygomatic fossae, and consisting of the masseter, the temporal, with the external and internal pterygoid muscles. The temporal muscle is covered by a strong membrane, the temporal fascia, which, arising from the temporal ridge, is attached below to the upper border of the zygoma, after first dividing into two lamina? which go to the outer and inner aspects of this border, and contain between them a small quantity of fat. From the zygoma downwards, the masseteric fascia is continued to the posterior and inferior borders of the ramus of the mandible, enveloping the mas- seter muscle. Closely connected with this is the parotid fascia which envelops the parotid gland, extending backwards from the masseteric fascia to that part of the deep cervical fascia which covers the upper portion of the sterno-mastoid