THE HIP-JOINT 249 bands; this is sometimes perforated, allowing the bursa under the psoas to commu- nicate with the joint. The capsule is also very thin at its attachment to the back of the femoral neck, and again opposite the cotyloid notch. The ligamentum teres (figs. 239 and 240) is an interarticular flat band which extends from the acetabular notch to the head of the femur, and is usually about an inch and a half (3-7 cm.) long. It has two bony attachments, one on either side of the cotyloid notch immediately below the articular cartilage, while intermediate fibres spring from the under surface of the transverse ligament. The ischial portion is the stronger, and has several of its fibres arising outside the cavity, below and in connection with the origin of the transverse ligament, where it is also continuous with the capsule and periosteum of the ischium. At the femur it is fixed to the front part of the depression on the head, and to the cartilage round the margin of the depression. It is covered by a prolongation of synovial membrane, which also covers the cushion of fat in the recess of the acetabulum; Fig. 239.—Section thkough the Hip-joint, showing the Cotyloid Ligament, Ligamentum Teres, and Eetinacula. Ligamentum teres. The upper line is placed on the fem- oral, the lower on the ischial attach- ment Cotyloid cartilage Capsular ligament Reflected fibres of capsule (retin- acula) Reflected fibres of capsule the portion of the membrane reflected over the fatty tissue does not cling closely to the round ligament, but forms a triangular fold, the apex of which is at the femur. The transverse ligament (fig. 241) passes across the cotyloid notch and con- verts it into a foramen; it supports part of the cotyloid fibro-cartilage, and is con- nected with the ligamentum teres and the capsule. It is composed of decussating fibres, which arise from the margin of the acetabulum on either side of the notch, those coming from the pubes being more superficial, and passing to form the deep part of the ligament at the ischium, while those superficial at the ischium are deep at the pubes. It thus completes the rim of the acetabulum. The cotyloid fibro-cartilage (figs. 239 and 240) is a yellowish-white structure, which deepens the acetabulum by surmounting its margin. It varies in strength and thickness, but is stronger at its iliac and ischial portions than elsewhere. Its base is broad and fixed to the bony rim as well as to the articular cartilage of the acetabulum on the inner, and the periosteum on the outer side of it, and blends inseparably with the transverse ligament which supports it over the cotyloid notch. Its free margin is thin; on section it is somewhat lunated, having its outer surface