697 LA TERA L T 'EXTRICLES Reil is then obtained. Lastly, the student should make a series of thin sagittal sections through the island of Reil and the frontal lobe until the great transverse fissure and its relation to the descending coruu of the lateral ventricle is seen (fig. 417). The sections will pass through the lenticular and caudate nuclei of the corpus striatum and through the optic thalamus. The inferior or descending cornu pursues a more curved and complicated course than the other two cornua. It is directed at first outwards and backwards, and then bends somewhat sharply downwards; lastly, it sweeps forwards with an inclination inwards, following the long axis of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. In transverse section it is seen to be somewhat triangular, presenting a floor, an inner wall, and a curved roof which bounds the cavity above and externally. The floor is formed by the eminentia collateralis. The following structures appear on the inner wall:—the hippocampus major, ending in the pes hippocampi; the corpus fimbriatum; and the choroid plexus, the latter apparently passing through a fissure (the great transverse fissure). The roof is formed from within outwards by the taenia semicircularis, by the narrow posterior prolongation of the caudate nucleus Fig. 417.—A Dissection of the Descending Cornu of the Lateral Ventricle, with a Sagittal Section through the Basal Ganglia. foramen ca uda te septum FORXIX CORPUS CALLOSVM OF MONRO NUCLEUS LUCIDUM OPTIC TRACT LENTICULAR NUCLEUS CAUDATE NUCLEUS of the corpus striatum, and by the tapetum. At the extremity of the cornu the roof is formed by the amygdaloid tubercle. The taenia semicircularis and caudate nucleus may be traced to this tubercle. The eminentia collateralis is a smooth triangular elevation, which commences in the interval between the hippocampus major and minor, and extends, narrowing as it proceeds, nearly to the extremity of the descending cornu. It is the indenta- tion of the ventricular wall produced by the collateral fissure. The hippocampus major, or cornu Ammonis, is a curved white body which ends in a blunt extremity (pes hippocampi), on which are small indentations, giving it an obscure resemblance to the pawr of an animal. It corresponds to the dentate fissure. The corpus fimbriatum, taenia hippocampi, or fimbria, is a narrow strip of white matter writh a somewhat wavy appearance, which is placed along the concave side of the hippocampus major. It is formed by a portion of the fibres of the fornix continued into the descending cornu, and presents apparently a free edge towards the transverse fissure, but is in reality continued into the epithelium which