1040 THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS Its boundaries are ill defined posteriorly, and the term is used with different significance by different anatomists. Opening into it are the urethra, the glands of Bartholin, and a few glands of the same nature as those of the urethra, surround- ing the external meatus. The glands of Bartholin probably represent Cowper's glands in the male, but are more superficially placed. They are two little racemose glands, about a third of an inch long, situated one on either side beneath the lateral wall of the vestibule and behind the bulbi vestibuli. The duct, about three-quarters of an inch in length, opens immediately in front of the vaginal orifice opposite its meridian. Vessels.—The vulvar structures are supplied by branches of the external and internal pudic arteries. The veins end in the corresponding trunks, and there is in addition a free anastomosis with the veins of the round ligament in the sub- cutaneous fat of the labium. The lymphatics terminate for the most part in the inguinal glands, a few passing to the femoral glands. About the vaginal orifice is a neutral territory in which the vulvar and vaginal absorbents intercommunicate. The erectile structures of the vulva correspond morphologically to those of the male organ; the corpora cavernosa are represented by the clitoris, and the corpus Fi(i. 63:2.—Diagrammatic Representation of the Perin.eal Structures in the Female. ISCH10-PUBIC ARCH CRUS CUT0RID1S WITH ISCHIO-CAVERNOSUS BULBO-CAVERNOSUS COVERING BULBUS VESTIBULI Superficial trian- gular ligament GLANS CLITORIDIS WITH PREPUCE PARS INTERMEDIALIS Mucoub membrane of vestibule MEATUS URINARIUS BULBUS VESTIBULI GLAND OF BARTHOLIN Sphincter ani spongiosum, cleft in the female by the vulvar orifice, appears beneath the mucous membrane of the vestibule in the form of two vascular plexuses, one on each side, called the bulbi vestibuli; and an indistinct mesial band extending from the clitoris to the meatus is believed by Pozzi to represent the anterior part of the corpus spongiosum. The CLITORIS appears as a diminutive penile appendage at the upper part of the vulva, and is embraced by a kind of prepuce formed by the union of the two labia minora. It is composed of two corpora cavernosa which differ from the corresponding masculine structures only in their size and in their union distally into a rounded imperforate extremity, the glans clitoridis, covered by a layer of integument. The crura are supported dorsally by a suspensory ligament, and are attached to the ischial rami in the same manner as in the male. The clitoris is relatively smaller in the adult than in the child, and is almost always concealed within the rima pudendi. It is a highly sensitive organ, and is capable of erection. The bulbi vestibuli are two erectile bodies of somewhat pyriform shape, lying one on either side of the vestibule beneath the mucous membrane. The lamer