1136 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY (1) Median, or urachus. This interesting foetal relic, the intra-abdominal part of the allantois, passes up between the apex of the bladder and the umbilicus, and by so doing—(a) keeps the bladder up, especially in early life, when the pelvic cavity is but little developed; (b) it keeps the bladder well up so that it shall be above the level of the urethra, and so more easily emptied; (c) it provides, by thus keeping up the bladder, that it shall enlarge in a direction which will admit of the greatest amount of distension, i.e. one between the lower or yielding part of the abdominal wall and the hollow of the rectum, which is compressible. (2) The obliterated hypogastric arteries. These, the remains of vessels which during foetal life carry the impure blood of the foetus out to the mother through the umbilicus, run up and join the urachus at the umbilicus. In relation to these cords are the following fossse : («) An internal one, between the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric artery. This corresponds, on the anterior surface, to the external abdominal ring. Through this fossa comes direct inguinal hernia, (b) Between the obliterated hypogastric artery and the deep epigastric artery, running upwards and inwards to form the outer boundary of Hesselbach's triangle, is a middle fossa. This is the smallest of all. (c) The external fossa is outside the deep epigastric artery. It is the most distinct of the three, from the way in which the cord or round ligament passes down within a glove-like process of the trans- versalis fascia. This fossa corresponds to the internal ring. Varieties of inguinal hernia according to the condition of the vaginal process of peritoneum.—Inguinal hernia3 have above been classified according to their relation to the deep epigastric artery. It remains to allude to the arrange- ment of these same hernise according to the varying condition of the processus funiculo-vaginalis. This pouch of peritoneum, which paves the way for the pas- sage of the testis before this organ makes its start, eventually becomes the tunica vaginalis below, in this fashion: Very soon after birth the process becomes oblit- erated at two spots—one near the internal ring, and one just above the testicle. The obliterative process, commencing first above and descending, and then, ascending from below, the shrivelling continues until nothing is left save the tunica vaginalis below. The following are possible outcomes from an imperfect obliteration of the process—the first, alone, is common:— (1) If the process does not close at all, a descending hernia is called congenital. This may make its way into the scrotum. The testis is now enveloped and con- cealed by the hernia. (2) If the process is closed only above, i.e. near the internal ring, the hernia may make its way behind the unobliterated processus funiculo-vaginalis. To this variety of inguinal hernia the name infantile has been given. Its only importance is that during any operation for such a hernia three layers of peritoneum would have to be divided before the hernial contents could be reached. If, again, during some exertion, the hernia rupture the obliterating septum which has formed above, the condition of things to be dealt with is practically that of a congenital hernia. (3) If the processus funiculo-vaginalis be closed below and not above, a patent tubular process of peritoneum will lead down as far as the top of the testis. Any hernia into this process is called a hernia into the funicular process. Inguinal hernia in the female.—The inguinal canal in women is smaller and narrower than in men. Inguinal hernia is, therefore, uncommon in the female sex, and only occurs before adolescence, in patients who happen to be the subjects of an unobliterated processus funiculo-vaginalis, which extends for a varying distance along the round ligament, and is called the canal of Nuck. Inguinal hernia in the female is, therefore, always congenital. It is, practically, always of the oblique variety, and travels along the round ligament towards the labium majus. Its cov- erings will be the same as those of the oblique variety in the male, save that the cremaster, as a distinct muscle, is absent, and any fibres of the internal oblique which may be present are but little developed. Causes of hernia.—It will be well, while the anatomy of hernia is being con- sidered, to refer briefly to the causes, as many of these are intimately bound up with the anatomy of the parts. Amongst the chief are the following:— (1) Hereditary, viz. weakness of abdominal wall; openness of rings. (2) Weak spots.—(a) The presence of the cord; (6) deficiency of some of the