THE VEINS 618 the diploe terminate partly in the superficial veins already described, partly in the venous sinuses of the cranium, and partly in the deep veins of the neck. The venous sinuses open into the deep veins of the neck. The veins of the brain ter- minate in the venous sinuses. The veins of the nasal cavities terminate partly in the deep, and to some extent in the superficial veins. The veins of the ear join both the superficial and deep veins and the venous sinuses. The veins of the orbit ter- minate partly in the superficial veins, but chiefly in the venous sinuses. The veins of the pharynx and larynx enter the deep veins of the neck. 1. THE VEINS OF THE DIPLOE The veins of the diploe are contained in bony channels in the cancellous tissue between the external and internal tables of the skull. They are of comparatively large size, with very thin and imperfect walls, and form irregular communicating channels. They have no valves. They can only be seen on removing the external table of the skull with a file or chiseb They terminate in four or five main and descending channels, which open, some outwards through the external table of the skull into some of the superficial and deep veins of the head and face, and some inwards through the internal table into the venous sinuses. They are divided into the frontal, fronto-sphenoidal, fronto-parietal or anterior temporal, external parietal or posterior temporal, and occipital or parieto-occipital. The frontal are contained in the anterior part of the frontal bone. They con- verge anteriorly to a single vein which passes downwards, perforates the external table through a small aperture in the roof of the supraorbital notch, and terminates in the supraorbital vein. The fronto-sphenoidal are contained in the lateral parts of the frontal bone, and, running into the sphenoid bone, terminate in the sinus ate parva?. The fronto-parietal, or anterior temporal, are contained in the posterior part of the frontal and in the anterior part of the parietal bone. They pass downwards, and end, partly in the deep temporal veins by perforating the greater wing of the sphenoid bone, and partly in the superior petrosal sinus. The external parietal, or posterior temporal, ramifies in the parietal bone,