406 THE MUSCLES Those above, which form the inner pillar, as it is called, of the ring, run down- wards and inwards to be attached to the front of the symphysis pubis; those below, which form the external pillar of the ring, form a thin edge at first, but thicken just before their attachment to the spine of the pubes and the inner ex- tremity of the ilio-pectineal line, for at this point the external pillar is identical with Poupart's ligament. Upon the surface of the obliquus externus, close to the external abdominal ring, the oblique fibres of the aponeurosis are fastened together by some transversely directed fibres, the intercolumnar fibres, which run upwards and inwards from Poupart's ligament, limiting and rounding off the upper and outer end of the external abdominal ring. A thin membrane, the intercolumnar fascia, is prolonged from the edges of this opening over the spermatic cord and round ligament, of which it forms the external envelope. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior branches of the lower thoracic nerves, by means of numerous filaments which, passing through the internal oblique, enter the muscle on its deep surface. Action.—(1) The curved muscular fibres in their contraction tend to become straight and so compress the viscera which lie in their concavity; they act in defecation, micturition, parturition, and all expiratory efforts; (2) the two obliqui externi acting together will draw upwards the front part of the pelvis, and so flex it upon the thorax; (3) the muscle of one side, acting alone or in conjunction with the internal oblique of the opposite side, will rotate the pelvis and the lower part of the body to the same side; (4) it will tend by its posterior fibres to draw the crest of the ilium upwards towards the lower ribs, and will thus act as a lateral flexor of the pelvis upon the thorax; (5) acting from below, the muscles of the two sides will draw the thorax downwards and forwards and flex the lumbar and lower part of the thoracic spine; (6) it will rotate the thorax upon the pelvis so as to turn the thorax and the upper part of the body to the opposite side; (7) the posterior fibres will flex the thorax laterally. Relations.—Superficially, the integuments, and for a short space behind the latissimus dorsi; deeply, the lower ribs, their cartilages, the intercostal muscles between them, and the internal oblique; and below, the spermatic cord or round ligament in the inguinal canal. Variations.—The oblique externus may rise from more or fewer ribs. Occasionally a deeper plane is separated from the rest of the muscle. In one case, the anterior part of the aponeurosis was observed to be wanting. 2. OBLIQUUS INTERNUS ABDOMINIS The obliquus internus abdominis (fig. 266)—named from its relation to the preceding muscle and the direction of its fibres—is an irregular quadrilateral curved sheet, partly fleshy and partly aponeurotic. Origin.—(1) The outer half of Poupart's ligament; (2) the anterior two-thirds of the space intervening between the inner and outer lips of the crest of the ilium; (3) the outer and posterior aspect of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis (which aponeurosis is also called the lumbar fascia). Insertion.—(1) For about one inch (2'5 cm.) into the inner extremity of the ilio-pectineal line; (2) the anterior border of the crest of the pubes; (3) the whole length of the linea alba; (4) the lower borders of the cartilages of the last three ribs. Structure.—Arising by fleshy and short tendinous fibres intermingled, a fleshy sheet is soon formed, the fibres of which diverge; the anterior passing forwards and downwards, the middle forwards and upwards, and the posterior directly upwards to their insertion, which is by means of a broad aponeurosis. At the front of the lower intercostal spaces the fibres run parallel to, and in the same plane with, the internal intercostals. The position of the change from fleshy to apo- neurotic fibres may be indicated by two lines at right angles to each other; one passing upwards and a little outwards from the middle of Poupart's ligament, the other horizontally forwards below the tip of the last rib, and near the edges of the lower rib cartilages. The aponeurosis is blended with that of the external oblique,