SPINAL NERVES 741 clearly understood that these tracts or columns are only recognisable during their development or when affected with disease or degeneration. The following tracts are recognised in the posterior columns:— Ascending j ^e Postero-lateral, or Burdach's column, j 1 The postero-mesial, or Goll's column. Descending j The comma-shaped tract. (fig. 440). The two ascending columns are not distinguishable from each other below the mid-dorsal region, but above that level they are partially separated by a septum of neuroglia called the postero-lateral septum. The fibres of Goll's column are small and those of Burdach's column are large, but both are derived from the posterior nerve-roots, and as they pass upwards they give off collaterals which enter the grey matter. Some of the fibres of the posterior ascending columns terminate in arborisations round the cells of the grey matter of the cord, but others pass upwards to the medulla oblongata, where the fibres of Goll's column ramify round the cells of the nucleus gracilis, and the fibres of Burdach's column arborise round the cells of the nucleus cuneatus. The descending or comma-shaped tract is small, often ill-defined, and it lies in the midst of the postero-lateral ascending tract. It consists of fibres from the posterior roots which are passing downwards to lower segments of the cord. The tracts which have been defined in the antero-lateral column are the following:— f Crossed pyramidal. Descending j Direct pyramidal. I Antero-lateral descending cerebellar. r Dorso-lateral, or direct cerebellar. Ascending \ Antero-lateral ascending cerebellar. t Lissauer's column, or the marginal bundle. Antero-lateral ground bundle, (fig. 440). The descending tracts of the antero-lateral column.—The crossed pyramidal tract is a somewhat triangular bundle of nerve-fibres lying in the dorsal part of the antero-lateral column, in front of and somewhat external to the posterior cornu.' It is separated from the surface, except in the lower part of its extent, by the direct cerebellar tract (fig. 440a). Its fibres are the axons of nerve- cells in the cortex of the opposite side of the brain; they pass downwards through the corona radiata, the internal capsule, the crura cerebri, the pyramidal bundles of the anterior pyramid of the medulla to the decussation of the pyramids; there they cross the middle line and continue their descent in the opposite antero-lateral column; finally they leave the antero-lateral column and pass into the substance of the anterior cornu, where they terminate in ramifications round the motor cells (fig. 440a). The direct pyramidal tract is a small quadrilateral bundle of nerve-fibres situated at the side of the anterior fissure. It cannot be traced downwards beyond the mid-dorsal region. Its fibres are the axons of the nerve-cells of the brain cortex of the same side, which have taken the course described in connection with the crossed pyramidal fibres as far as the medulla; then, instead of crossing to the opposite side, they have descended in the anterior column of the same side; ulti- mately, however, they reach the opposite side by passing through trie anterior white commissure, and they terminate in ramifications round the motor cells of the anterior cornu. The descending antero-lateral column is situated peripherally. It extends forwards from the crossed pyramidal and direct cerebellar tracts to the base of the direct pyramidal tract, but it is broader dorsally than ventrally, and its fibres are more or less mixed with those of the antero-lateral ascending cerebellar tract