THE SKELETON 54 palatine nerve from the sphenopalatine ganglion; hence it is sometimes called the naso-palatine groove. The superior border of the bone is expanded laterally into two alee. The groove between them lodges the rostrum of the sphenoid, whilst the margin of each ala comes into contact with the sphenoidal process of the palate bone. Between the alas and the sphenoid a canal exists on each side of the rostrum for blood-vessels. The inferior border is uneven, and is received into the groove formed by the crests of the opposed maxillae and the palatine bones of each side. The anterior border joins posteriorly the mesethmoid, and in front the triangular (median) nasal cartilage. The posterior border, smooth, rounded, and covered by mucous mem- brane, serves to separate the posterior nares. The anterior and inferior borders meet each other at the apex of the bone. Articulations.—The vomer articulates with the sphenoid, palates, ethmoid,, and maxillae, and with the triangular cartilage. Fig. 65.—The Vomer. (Side view.) GROOVE FOR NA! GROOVE FOR Blood-supply.—Its arteries are derived from the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, the naso-palatine, and the pterygo-palatine arteries, and twigs from the posterior palatines through Stenson's canals. Ossification.—The vomer is a membrane-bone, and arises from a single centre deposited in the lower border of the perichondrium of the ethmo-vomerine plate as early as the eighth week. From this single centre a lamina of bone extends on each side of the cartilage plate. For many weeks the vomer is a shallow bony trough. Gradually it presses upon and induces absorption of the enclosed cartil- age, and by degrees the laminae fuse, and form a rectangular plate of bone. At birth the vomer presents an expanded lower border, especially in cases of cleft palate. THE NASAL These are two oblong bones situated in the middle line at the upper part of the face, and forming the bridge of the nose. Each bone has two surfaces and four borders. The facial surface is concave from above downwards, but convex from side to side. Near its centre is a foramen for the transmission of a small tributary Fig. 66.—The Left Nasal Boxe. SUPERIOR BORDER MEDIAN BORDER OUTER BORDER INFERIOR BORDER MEDIAN BORDER GROOVE FOR NASAL NERVE to the facial vein. The posterior or nasal surface is concave laterally, and traversed by a longitudinal groove for the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. In life this surface has a covering of mucous membrane. The short superior border is thick and serrated for articulation with the nasal notch of the frontal. The inferior border is thin, and serves for the attachment of the lateral nasal cartilages. Each bone articulates with its fellow by the median border, which is