718 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM upper surface. The fibres of the fourth nerve decussate within its substance at its upper part. The inferior medullary vela are thin crescentic translucent bands of white matter which extend from the nodule to the flocculus on each side; hence they have been called commissurae ad flocculos. Each velum presents a concave edge, which is apparently free, but which is in reality continued into the epithe- lium, which covers the choroid plexuses. It is attached to the cerebellum by its convex edge. The choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle are convoluted vascular folds of the pia mater, which project into the cavity of the fourth ventricle, but are excluded from the ventricular cavity by a layer of epithelium. They run at first forwards close together on each side of the middle line, and then turn outwards along the edges of the inferior medullary vela to reach the lateral recesses of the ventricle, where they become continuous with the general pia mater. Fig. 427.—Right Half of the Encephalic Peduncle as seen from the Inside of a Median Section. (Allen Thomson, after Reiehert.) 1, culmen ; 2, posterior crescentic lobe ; 3, posterior inferior lobe ; 4, slender lobe ; 5, biventral lobe ; 6, amygdala. The tela choroidea inferior is a layer of pia mater which closes in the lowei and back part of the fourth ventricle. It extends from the choroid plexuses to the ligulaeand obex, where it is continued into the pia mater which covers the posterioi surface of the lower part of the medulla. As already mentioned in the description of the meninges, it presents three openings or deficiencies: one (foramen oi Majendie) in the middle line immediately above the obex, and two (foramina oi Key and Retzius) at the lateral recesses. The obex is a thin, somewhat triangular plate of white matter, occupying the angular interval between the two diverging clavse. It is not infrequently absent. The ligulee are thin narrow strips of white matter, which project from the inner: margins of the clavpe. They run at first upwards and forwards, and then turn outwards around the restiform bodies. They may sometimes be traced as far as the flocculi, when they become continuous with the inferior medullary vela. Theif inner, apparently free, edges are continuous with the epithelial roof of the fourth ventricle.