307 BICEPS Flexors of the Forearm The flexor muscles are three in number. The most superficial is the biceps, which arises from the scapula; while more deeply lie the brachialis anticus and brachio-radialis (supinator longus), which arise from the humerus. 1. BICEPS The biceps flexor cubiti—named from its two heads and its action upon the cubitus, or elbow—is a thick, somewhat flattened fusiform muscle with a bifid upper extremity. Origin.—(1) The short head from the outer side of the tip of the coracoid process, in close connection with the coraco-brachialis muscle; (2) the long head, from the upper border of the glenoid fossa of the scapula and from the glenoid ligament. Insertion.—(1) The posterior border of the tubercle of the radius; (2) the upper part of the deep fascia on the inner side of the front of the forearm, two inches (5 cm.) below the inner condyle of the humerus. Structure.—The short head arises by a short tendon from which the fleshy fibres diverge in a somewhat conical form until they meet and blend with the outer and longer head about the middle of the upper arm. Tbe long head arises by a thick ribbon-like tendon three to four inches (about 9 cm.) long, which at its origin upon the upper border of the glenoid fossa bifur- cates and blends with the glenoid ligament of the shoulder-joint. It first passes outwards and arches over the rounded head of the humerus. It afterwards enters the canal formed by the bicipital groove internally, and externally by the capsule of the joint, together with the aponeurotic expansion derived from the tendon of the pectoralis major. Down to this point it is invested by synovial membrane, which is reflected upon it from the adjacent bone and capsule. After emerging at the lower end of the bicipital groove it gives origin to a conical mass of fleshy fibres, which meet with the fibres derived from the shorter head about the middle of the upper arm. The fleshy bundles belonging to the two heads may be separated for a considerable distance by careful dissection. Shortly below the middle of the upper arm, the tendon of insertion commences as a septum between the two bellies of the muscle. It rapidly increases in thickness, and about the level of the con- dyles it becomes free, and as a flattened cord passes down in the middle of the bend of the elbow and turns upon itself so that its anterior aspect now becomes external; before its insertion into the posterior border of the tubercle of the radius it is separated from that process by a small synovial bursa. About an inch and a half (4 cm.) from its insertion it gives off from its inner border a strong band of fibrous tissue three-quarters of an inch broad and one inch long (the semilunar fascia), to the deep fascia covering the ulnar surface of the forearm. Nerve-supply.—From the outer cord of the brachial plexus (through the sixth and seventh cervical nerves) by a branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve which enters the muscle on its posterior aspect near its inner border. Action.—(1) It flexes the elbow-joint by means of its radial insertion, and also by the attachment of the semilunar fascia to the inner side of the forearm. (2) It supinates strongly the forearm by means of the radial tendon which wraps round the tubercle of the radius. This movement will be most powerful when the elbow is bent to a right angle, as the tendon is then perpendicular to the bone, which it causes to revolve. To increase its leverage, the tendon is lifted away from the axis of the bone by the prominence of the tubercle. (.3) It will assist some- what feebly in the movements of the shoulder-joint, its short head being, like the coraco-brachialis, a flexor and adductor of the upper arm. By its long head it binds clown the upper portion of the humerus, and prevents the tendency to dislo- cation upwards. When the forearm is fixed, the biceps will help in flexing the elbow, as in climbing or in drawing up the trunk to a horizontal bar. Relations.—Superficially, the deltoid and pectoralis major, the deep fascia,