275 THE TARSAL JOINTS ridge above the articular facet for the cuboid, and also to the upper part of the internal surface close to the articular margin, and passes forwards to be attached to the depression on the internal surface of the cuboid, and also to the rough angle between the internal and inferior surfaces. At the calcaneum this ligament is closely connected with the external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Towards the sole it is connected with the short inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and superiorly with the dorsal calcaneo-cuboid. The dorsal calcaneo-cuboid (fig. 256) is attached to the dorsal surfaces of the two bones, extending low down externally to blend with the outer part of the short plantar ligament. Over the inner half, or more, the ligament stretches some distance beyond the margins of the articular surfaces, reaching well forwards upon the cuboid to be attached about midway between its anterior and posterior borders; Fig. 257.—Ligajiexts of the Sole of the Left Foot. GROOVE FOR FLEXOR LONGUS HALLUCIS Inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament Short plantar or short inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament TUBERCLE OF SCAPH0I0 INTERNAL CUNEIFORM Insertion of peroneus long us but towards the outer side, the ligament is much shorter, and is attached to the ■cuboid behind its tubercle. The long inferior calcaneo-cuboid (the long plantar ) (fig. 257) is a strong dense band of fibres which are attached posteriorly to the whole of the under surface of the calcaneum between the posterior tubercles and the rounded eminence (the anterior tubercle) at the anterior end of the bone. Most of its fibres pass directly forwards, and are fixed to the outer two-thirds or more of the oblique ridge behind the peroneal groove on the cuboid, while some pass further forwards and inwards, expanding into a broad layer, and are inserted into the bases of the second, third, fourth, and inner half of the fifth metatarsal bones. This anterior expanded portion completes the canal for the peroneus longus tendon, and from its under surface arise the adductor hallucis and the flexor brevis minimi digiti museles. The short inferior calcaneo-cuboid (short plantar) (fig. 257) is attached to