THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 788 (3) The posterior thoracic nerve (external respiratory of Bell) arises, by three roots, from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. The upper two roots traverse the substance of the scalenus medius; the root from the seventh passes in front of that muscle. Twigs are furnished to the superior portion of the serratus magnus by the upper two roots; lower down they unite and are subsequently joined by the root from the seventh. The nerve now passes downwards behind the brachial plexus and the first stage of the axillary artery, and runs along the axillary surface of the serratus magnus, supplying twigs to each of the digitations of that muscle. ( 4 ) The communicating twig to the phrenic arises from the fifth nerve close to the point where the latter nerve receives the communicating twig from the cervical plexus. (5) The nerve to the subclavius is a small twig which arises from the fifth nerve or from the upper trunk of the plexus. Its fibres are derived from the fifth or in some cases from the. fourth cervical nerve through the communicating twig from the cervical plexus. It run downwards in front of the third stage of the sub- clavian artery and, after giving off a communicating branch to the phrenic, pierces the posterior layer of the costo-coracoid membrane, and enters the subclavius at the lower border of that muscle. Variety.-—In rare cases the entire phreuic nerve may pass via the nerve to the subclavius in front of the third stage of the subclavian artery. (6) The scaleni and (7) longus colli are supplied by twigs which arise from the lower two or three cervical nerves immediately after their exit from the intervertebral foramina. Branches given off below the Clavicle The AXILLARY or SHORT branches are (1) the external and (2) internal anterior thoracic, and (3) the three subscapular nerves. (1) The external anterior thoracic nerve arises from the outer cord of the plexus; it contains fibres from the fifth, sixth and seventh nerves. After communi- cating with the internal anterior thoracic, it pierces the costo-coracoid membrane and ends in branches which supply the pectoralis major. (2) The internal anterior thoracic nerve arises from the inner cord and passes forwards between the first stage of the axillary artery and the axillary vein. It contains fibres of the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves, and it gives branches to the pectoralis minor, some of which pass through the latter muscle and end in the great pectoral. The nerve then unites with a branch from the external anterior thoracic, and forms a loop which is placed in front of the first stage of the axillary artery. From this loop additional branches are furnished to the greater pectoral muscle. (3) The subscapular nerves are branches of the posterior cord. They are three in number, are distinguished as upper, middle, and lower, and are distributed to the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. (a) The upper or short subscapular nerve is derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It is distributed exclusively to the subscajmlaris muscle. It is occasionally double. (b) The middle or long subscapular nerve contains fibres of the seventh cervical nerve; it accompanies the subscapular artery along the axillary margin of the subscapularis muscle and ends in the latissimus dorsi. (c) The lower subscapular nerve, carrying fibres of the fifth and sixth cervi- cal nerves, passes behind the subscapular artery, below the dorsalis scapula; branch, and is distributed to the teres major; furnishing one or two twigs to the subscapu- laris, which enter the subscapularis near the axillary margin of that muscle. terminal OR long branches.—These are given off as follows: from the outer cord, the musculo-cutaneous and the outer head of the median; from the inner cord, the inner head of the median, the ulnar, the internal cutaneous, and the lesser internal cutaneous; from the posterior cord, the musculo-spiral and the circumflex nerves. The circumflex, lesser internal cutaneous, internal cutaneous,