825 DISTRIBUTION OF CUTANEOUS BRANCHES twelfth dorsal and the iliohypogastric nerves; the middle upper area receives the external divisions of the posterior primary branches of the upper three lumbar nerves, and the inner and upper area is supplied by twigs from the external divi- sions of the posterior primary branches of the upper two or three sacral nerves (fig. 469b). Of the lower three areas the outer receives filaments from the second and third ; lumbar nerves through the external cutaneous branch of the lumbar plexus, the ' middle area is supplied by the first, second, and third sacral nerves through the , small sciatic nerve, and the inner area by the second and third sacral nerves through the perforating cutaneous branch of the sacral plexus (rig. 469b). On the back of the thigh there are three areas. The external and the internal i are supplied by the second and third lumbar nerves, the former through the | external cutaneous branch of the lumbar plexus and the latter through the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve; the middle area receives twigs from the first, second, and third sacral nerves through the small sciatic branch of the , sacral plexus (fig. 469b). The front of the thigh is supplied by the first, second, and third lumbar nerves, ! and there are five cutaneous areas; the outer receives twigs of the second and third lumbar nerves through the external cutaneous nerve. There are two mesial areas, | an upper and a lower. The former is supplied by the crural branch of the genito- crural which conveys twigs of the first and second lumbar nerves, and the latter receives filaments of the second and third lumbar nerves through the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve. The small upper and internal area I is supplied by the first lumbar nerve through the ilio-inguinal branch of the lumbar plexus, and the lower internal area receives twigs of the second and third lumbar nerves through the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve i (fig. 469b). The front of the knee is supplied by the second, third, and fourth lumbar i nerves through the middle cutaneous, the internal cutaneous, and the long saphen- ous branches of the anterior crural nerve (fig. 469b). The skin over the region of the popliteal space receives filaments internally from second, third and fourth lumbar nerves through the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve and through the superficial division of the obturator nerve; mesially and externally it receives twigs of the first three sacral nerves through the small sciatic nerve (fig. 469b). The skin of the front and inner side of the leg is supplied by the third and fourth lumbar nerves through the long saphenous branch of the anterior crural nerve, and the skin of the front and outer side of the leg receives filaments of the fifth lumbar, and the first and second sacral nerves through the external cutaneous > branch of the external popliteal nerve. The skin of the lower and middle part of the anterior aspect of the leg is supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve which conveys filaments of the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first sacral nerve (fig. 469b). In the skin of the back of the leg five areas can be distinguished, two internal, upper and lower, two middle, upper and lower, and an external. The upper and j inner area is supplied by the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves through the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve and the superficial branch of the obturator nerve, the lower internal area receives filaments from the third and ' fourth lumbar nerves through the long saphenous nerve. The upper middle area is supplied by the first, second and third sacral through the small sciatic nerve, and the lower middle area by the first and second sacral nerves through the external saphenous nerve. The outer area is supplied by the fifth lumbar and the first and j second sacral nerves through the external cutaneous branch of the external popli- teal nerve (fig. 469b). '< The skin of the dorsum of the foot is supplied principally by the fourth and fifth lumbar and by the first sacral nerves; the majority of the nerve filaments I travel by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, but the adjacent sides of the first and second toes are supplied by the anterior crural nerve, and the outer side of the dorsum of the little toe is supplied by the first and second sacral nerves through the external saphenous nerve (fig. 469b).