THEIR ACTION AS LEVERS 285 of the muscle will be to compress the structures lying in its concavity. The buc- cinator and abdominal muscles are good examples of this form of muscle. Or if the surface upon which the curved sheet lies is concave, the muscle will tend by its contraction to lift up the soft parts upon its deep or convex surface. As an instance of this we have the influence of the platysma myoides upon the fascia and other structures which overlie the great vascular channels of the neck and the apices of the lungs. In estimating the effect of muscles acting upon the levers formed by the bones, each of which moves upon a joint as its fulcrum, three points have to be taken into consideration:—(1) the order of lever; (2) the distance from the fulcrum, of the points of application of the force at the insertion of the muscle, and of the resist- ance to be overcome; and (3) the direction in which the force is applied. It will be found that whereas in most levers employed in mechanics the object aimed at is what is called mechanical advantage, i. e. by the application of a small force to overcome a greater resistance; in the human body the object is, on the contrary, by the exertion of a great force through a small space to overcome a small resist- ance, but at the same time to cause motion through a much greater space, and with a much greater speed. In the three orders of levers, the fulcrum is placed either between the power and the resistance (first order); or at one end, with the power at the other, and the resistance to be overcome between (second order); or at one end with the power in the middle, and the resistance to be overcome at the other end (third order). The power required to overcome the resistance varies inversely with the distance of its point of application from the fulcrum. Where this distance, or the arm of the lever as it is called, is short compared with the arm at which the resistance acts, then the power has to be greater than the resistance, and vice versa. In the first order of levers, if the power and resistance act parallel to one another, there may or may not be a gain of mechanical advantage, according as the arm at which the power acts is greater or less than the arm at which the resistance acts. In the second order of levers there must necessarily be mechanical advantage; and in the third order the power must be greater than the resistance, as it has to act upon a shorter arm, so there will be what may be termed mechanical disadvantage. In the human body there is hardly a single muscle which forms a good example of a lever of the second order, for the simple reason that mechanical advantage is of so much less importance than a wide range of movement with its attendant rapidity. The best example that can be given is that of some of the muscles which depress the mandible, e.g. the anterior belly of the digastric, which is inserted into the extremity of the lever formed by that bone, while the resistance to be overcome —viz. the tonic contraction of the masseter, temporal, and internal pterygoid—is exerted at a point much nearer to the fulcrum upon which the mandible turns. The muscles which are inserted upon the tendo Achillis are often given as an example of this order of lever, when by their contraction they raise the heel and lift up the body, the weight of which acts upon the lever of the foot through the ankle-joint. This would be a good example if another person were to lay hold of the tendo Achillis, and by drawing upon it to raise the individual from the ground. But the fact that the other end of the muscle springs from a part of the mass to be raised alters the conditions, and, as a matter of fact, the muscle, instead of obtaining any mechanical advantage in its action, has to contract with a force four or five times as great as the weight to be raised. It will be found that most of the muscles belong either to the third order, in which there is necessarily mechanical disadvantage, or to the first order; and in this case, the arm at which the power acts is usually the shorter, so that the power has to be greater than the resistance. In the movements of the forearm about the elbow as a fulcrum, the triceps acting with the very short arm afforded by the pro- jection of the olecranon and overcoming a resistance experienced by the hand at the other end of the radius and ulna, will be a lever of the first order. The brachio-radialis (supinator longus) when used to flex the forearm acts at the lower end of the radius, so as to overcome the weight of the forearm and hand, which will act through a centre of gravity, which is about the middle of the radius, and therefore much nearer to the fulcrum at the elbow. It therefore forms a lever of the second order. If its angle of insertion were not so very small, the muscle