630 THE VEINS The anterior longitudinal spinal veins extend from the foramen magnum to the coccyx as two tortuous plexiform vessels, one being placed on each side of the back of the bodies of the vertebrae behind the posterior common ligament. Oppo- site the body of each vertebra they communicate by a transverse branch, which passes between the body of the vertebra and posterior common ligament, an arrangement which is sometimes spoken of as the spinal venous ladder. Each transverse branch as it lies under cover of the posterior common ligament receives the veins from the bodies of the vertebrae (the venae basis vertebras). At the spot where each longitudinal vein is joined by the transverse branch, the vessel becomes considerably dilated. From the longitudinal vein branches run backwards to join the posterior longitudinal veins, and opposite the intervertebral foramina a transverse branch runs outwards to join the vertebral vein, the intercostal veins, the lumbar veins, and the sacral veins, according to the region of the spine in which the vertebra is situated. Above, the anterior spinal veins communicate with the basilar plexus at the front of the foramen magnum. The posterior longitudinal spinal veins, smaller than the anterior longitudinal veins, likewise extend from the cranium to the coccyx. They lie between the pos- terior wall of the spinal canal and the dura mater. Like the anterior, they commu- nicate by transverse branches, which receive veins through the ligamenta subflava from the dorsal spinal plexus. They also communicate with the anterior longi- tudinal veins by lateral transverse branches. It will be thus seen (fig. 390) that in the interior of the vertebral canal, opposite each vertebral segment, there is a venous ring between the bony wall of the canal and the sheath of the dura mater, the ring being formed in front by the anterior transverse vein; on each side by the dilated portion of the trunk of the anterior longitudinal spinal vein, and the lateral transverse branch; and behind, by the trunk of the posterior longitudinal vein and the posterior transverse branch. This venous ring receives veins from the body of the vertebra, from the spinal cord, and from the meninges, and pours its blood, in part through the lateral veins lying in the intervertebral foramina into the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, or sacral veins; and in part through the branch which perforates the ligamenta subflava into the dorsal spinal plexus. Above, the posterior longitudinal veins communicate at the back of the foramen magnum with the occipital sinuses. Around the foramen magnum a distinct venous ring or plexus is formed by the communication between the occipital and marginal sinuses and the posterior and anterior spinal veins. (6) The medullary or medulli-spinal veins, or veins of the spinal cord, are of small size, and run in the pia mater in a tortuous course along the spinal cord. They join the venous ring corresponding to each vertebral segment by passing along the sheath of dura mater reflected round the spinal nerves. 4. THE VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS All the veins of the abdomen and pelvis—with the exception of the superior epigastric vein and ascending lumbar vein, which open ultimately into the superior vena cava—enter directly or indirectly into the inferior vena cava. The veins corresponding to the parietal branches of the abdominal aorta, except the middle sacral vein, open directly into the inferior vena cava; the middle sacral vein only indirectly through the left common iliac vein. Of the visceral veins corresponding to the visceral branches of the abdominal aorta, those which return the blood from the stomach, intestines, and pancreas (the chylopoetic viscera), and from the spleen, end in a common trunk (the portal vein). The portal vein enters the^ liver, and breaks up in the liver substance into capillaries like an artery, and from