THE TESTICLES 1023 Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the prostate arise from the adjacent vesical and hemorrhoidal vessels. The prostatic veins receive the dorsal vein of the penis, and after forming a plexus (plexus of Santorini) investing the anterior and a portion of the lateral surfaces, terminate in the adjacent vesical veins. The lymphatics end in the pelvic glands, and a small gland may sometimes be found on each side near the base of the organ. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. THE TESTICLES AND THEIR APPENDAGES AND COVERINGS The two testicles lie in a common pouch of integument called the scrotum, and each organ is invested in addition by a series of coverings which join in the middle line to form a septum scroti. There are three principal layers : an outer (the dartos) of unstriped muscular fibre, a middle (the cremasteric) containing striped muscular fibre, and an inner serous (the tunica vaginalis), separated from each other by layers of connective tissue. The coverings (fig. 621), named from without inwards, are (1) the dartos ; (2) the external spermatic fascia ; (3) the cremasteric or middle spermatic fascia ; (4) the internal spermatic fascia ; (5) subperitoneal fascia ; and (6) the tunica vaginalis. Fig. 621.—Horizontal Section of the Scrotum and Testicle. (Diagrammatic] Septum scroti MEDIASTINUM TESTIS Skin Dartos External spermatic fascia Cremasteric fascia Parietal layer of tunica vaginalis Internal spermatic fascia and subperitoneal fascia Cavity of tunica vaginalis Visceral layer of tunica vaginalis Tunica albuginea Digital fossa EPIDIDYMIS THE scrotum.—The scrotal integument is more or less pigmented, and covered in the adult with coarse, scattered hairs, and provided with strongly devel- oped sebaceous and sudoriparous glands. It presents in the middle line a longi- tudinal impression, the raphe, from which start on either side a multitude of transverse wrinkles, effaceable by distension. (1) The dartos is a thin reddish layer composed of elastic tissue freely inter- mingled with unstriped muscular fibres. It is adherent to the deep surface of the skin, but passes inward septally between the two testicles, forming a separate sac for each, and is prolonged over the penis and perinseum. Its fibres assume various directions, but for the most part run longitudinally at right angles to the scrotal wrinkles, of which they are the cause. They are always moderately contracted in health, and contract still more under the influence of cold and of mental emotion, but are not affected by electricity. They become relaxed in conditions of general enfeeblement. According to Barrois, the dartos is divided into two layers, the more superficial being common to both testicles, while the deeper and stronger forms a separate investment for each testicle, and assists in the formation of the septum scroti. (2) The external spermatic or ' intercolumnar ' fascia consists of a fatless, laminated connective tissue, within and closely adherent to the dartos, blending at