THE VEINS 620 lower margin of that process to the junction of the falx with the tentorium, where it ends in the straight sinus. The sinus is cylindrical in shape and of small size, and receives some of the inferior frontal veins of the brain, some of the veins from the median surface of the brain, and some of the veins of the falx. (3) The straight sinus, or sinus rectus (tig. 388)—also variously called the sinus tentorii, perpendicularis, and obliquus—lies along the junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium cerebelli. It is formed by the union of the great vein of Galen, from the velum interpositum, and the inferior longitudinal sinus. It receives in its course branches from the tentorium cerebelli and from the upper surface of the cerebellum. It runs downwards and backwards to the interna] occipital pro- tuberance, where it ends in the left lateral sinus, at times in the right lateral sinus, or in the torcular Herophili when that blood-space is present. On section it is triangular in shape, with its apex upwards. Fig. 387.—The Venous Sinuses. (From a dissection by W. J. Walsham in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) Meningeal branch of anterior ethmoidal artery Meningeal branch of pos- terior ethmoidal artery Middle men ingeal arten/ OPHTHALMIC DIVISION OF FIFTH NERVE THIRD NER VE Cavernous sinus FOVRTH NERVE A UDITOR Y AND FACIAL NERVES Superior petrosal sinus In ferior petrosal sinus PelrO'Squamous si mis SPINA L A ('< 'ES- SOR Y NER VE Sigmoid portion of lateral sinus Posterior meningeal branch of vertebral artery Left marginal sinus Left lateral sinus Superior longitudinal sinus — Circular sinus Carotid artery SIXTH NERVE Basilar artery Basilar plexus of veins -4- A uditory artery GLOSSO-PHA It YNGEAL AND PSEUMOUASTRIO Anterior spinal artery [if. HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE SPINAL ACCES- SORY NERVE Right marginal sinus Occipital sinus Right lateral sinus (A) The occipital sinus (fig. 387) ascends mesially at the attached margin of the falx cerebelli, along the lower half of the squamous portion of the occipital bone from near the posterior margin of the foramen magnum to the internal occipital protuberance. It usually begins in a right and a left branch, known as the marginal sinuses. These proceed from the termination of each lateral sinus, run round the foramen magnum, where they communicate with the posterior spinal veins, and unite at a variable distance from the internal occipital protuberance to form the single occipital sinus. Sometimes they remain separate as far as the occipital protuberance, then forming two occipital sinuses. One or other of the marginal sinuses may be much smaller than the other, or be entirely absent. At the point where the marginal sinuses unite to form the single occipital sinus, there is a communication with the posterior spinal veins. The occipital sinus ends either in one of the lateral sinuses, in the straight sinus, or in the torcular