ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 854 CAVITY OF THE ORBIT General Arrangement of its Contents The anterior wider half of the cavity is mainly occupied hy the eyeball, which lies almost axially, but is rather nearer to the upper and outer than it is to the other Avails. The posterior two-thirds of the globe are in relation with soft parts, chiefly muscles and fat, and its posterior pole is situated midway between the base (or opening) and the apex of the orbital cavity. The anterior third of the eye- ball is naturally free, except for a thin covering of the conjunctiva, and projects slightly beyond the opening of the orbit, the degree of prominence varying with the amount of orbital fat, and also to some extent with the length of the globe. A straight line joining the inner and outer orbital margins usually cuts the eye behind the cornea—externally behind the ora serrata, nasally further forward, at the junction of the ciliary body and iris. The globe is held in position by numerous bands of connective tissue. The lachrymal gland lies under the outer part of the roof of the orbit anteriorly. The orbital fat occupies the spaces between the orbital muscles, and is in greatest amount immediately behind the eyeball; it also exists between the muscles and the orbital walls in the anterior half of the cavity. Six muscles, viz. the four recti, the superior oblique, and the levator palpebrae supe- rioris, arise at the apex of the orbit, and diverge as they pass forwards. The recti muscles—superior, inferior, external, and internal—run each near the correspond- ing orbital wall, but the superior is overlapped in part by the levator palpebrae. The superior oblique lies about midway between the superior and internal recti. A seventh muscle, the inferior oblique, has a short course entirely in the anterior part of the orbit, coming from its inner wall and passing beneath the globe between the termination of the inferior rectus and the orbital floor. The optic nerve with its sheaths passes from the optic foramen to the back of the eyeball, surrounded by the orbital fat, and more immediately by a loose connective tissue. Among the contents of the cavity are also to be enumerated many vessels and nerves, and fibrous tissue septa, while its walls are clothed by periosteum (periorbita). The muscles of the orbit are seven in number, of which six are ocular, i.e. are inserted into the eyeball and rotate it in different directions. These ocular muscles