THE VEINS 624 pass, in part into the inferior longitudinal sinus, and in part into the cavernous sinus. Those on the temporo-sphenoidal lobe enter in part into the superior petrosal sinus, and in part into the lateral sinus, passing into the latter from before backwards. A large vein from the occipital lobe winds over the crus cerebri and joins the great vein of Galen just before the latter enters the straight sinus. One of the inferior cortical veins is sometimes called the middle cerebral vein; another the great anastomosing vein of Trolard; another the posterior anastomosing vein of Labbe. The first ramifies over the under surface of the frontal and temporo- sphenoidal lobes, and at the anterior and lower part of the fissure of Sylvius opens into the cavernous sinus. The second establishes a communication between the superior longitudinal and cavernous sinuses by anastomosing with the middle cerebral and one of the superior cortical veins. The third passes from the middle cerebral vein over the temporo-sphenoidal lobe to the lateral sinus. The central, ganglionic, or deep cerebral veins are collected into two large venous trunks, the vena? Galeni, which leave the brain at the great transverse fissure, that is, between the splenium of the corpus callosum and the optic lobes. At this spot they unite to form a single vein, the vena magna Galeni, which opens into the anterior end of the straight sinus. The vena? Galeni are formed by the union of the choroid vein with the vena corporis striati near the foramen of Monro. From this spot they run backwards parallel to each other between the layers of the velum interpositum, and terminate in the way above mentioned. Tributaries of the veins of Galen.—The choroid vein, the vein of the corpus striatum, the basilar vein, the veins of the optic thalamus, the vein of the choroid plexus of the third ventricle, and veins from the corpus callosum, the pineal body, the optic lobes, and posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. The united trunk, or great vein of Galen, receives veins from the upper surface of the cerebellum, and one of the posterior inferior cerebral veins. The choroid vein runs with the choroid plexus. It begins in the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and ascends on the outer side of the choroid plexus along the margin of the velum interpositum to the foramen of Monro, where it unites with the vein of the corpus striatum to form the vein of Galen. It receives tribu- taries from the hippocampus major, corpus callosum, and fornix. The vena corporis striati, formed by veins from the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, runs forwards in the groove between those structures, passing in its course beneath the tsenia semicircularis, and joins the vein of Galen at the foramen of Monro. Tributaries.—It receives, in addition to the veins from the corpus stria- tum and optic thalamus, small veins from the fornix, septum lucidum, and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The basilar vein, formed by the confluence of the deep Sylvian vein, the inferior striate veins, and some small anterior cerebral veins, runs backwards over the crus cerebri, and enters the vein of Galen near the union of that vessel with the vein of the opposite side. Tributaries.—The deep Sylvian vein from the insula and surrounding convolutions; the inferior striate veins from the corpus striatum, which they leave through the anterior perforated space; anterior cerebral veins from the front of the corpus callosum; interpeduncular veins from the structures in the interpeduncular space; ventricular veins from the middle cornu of the lateral ventricle; and mesencephalic veins from the mid-brain. The Cerebellar Veins The cerebellar veins are divided into the superior and inferior. The superior ramify on the upper surface of the cerebellum; some of them run inwards over the superior vermiform process to join the straight sinus and great vein of Galen; others run outwards to the lateral and superior petrosal sinuses. The inferior, larger than the superior, run, some forwards and outwards to the inferior petrosal and lateral sinuses, and others directly backwards to the occipital sinuses.