VESTIGIAL AND ABNORMAL STRUCTURES 1212 the third month, however, the lower part of the spinal cord ceases to develop in the same manner as the upper part; at birth the functional part of the spinal cord terminates at the third lumbar vertebra, and in the adult it ends at the level of the first lumbar vertebra, the terminal or caudal portion of the cord, which is better developed in many vertebrates, being represented in man by the filum terminale. This retrogression of the lower part of the cord is not, however, confined to man, for it is present also in other mammals, and it is particularly well marked in the hedgehog, the filum terminale commencing in this animal in the anterior part of the thoracic region. In the human adult the filum terminale is about 23 cm. (9 inches) long, and it is divisible into two parts—an upper, about 14 to 15 cm. (6 inches) long, which lies in the subdural space, and a lower part, about 7 cm. (3 inches) long, which is closely invested by a covering of dura mater. The first part consists, at its com- mencement, of an outer layer of nerve-fibres, the fibres of the coccygeal and acces- sory coccygeal nerves (thirty-first, thirty-second, and thirty-third pairs of nerves), a small amount of grey matter, some substantia gelatinosa centralis, and the lower part of the central canal. The central canal terminates about 4 cm. beneath the conus medullaris, the grey matter about 8 cm. below the same point, and the remainder of the first part of the filum consists, therefore, merely of a few nerve- fibres and connective tissue. The nerve-fibres of the thirty-second and thirty-third pairs of nerves are quite functionless, and they disappear after a very short course in the second part of the filum, the lower portion of which consists entirely of strands of connective tissue more or less separated from each other, and attached at intervals to the back of the coccyx. The pineal body.—This structure, which appears at an early period in the development of the foetus, is a diverticulum from the roof of the primitive fore- brain, or thalamencephalon; it grows backwards, and in the adult lies between the splenium of the corpus callosum and the anterior quadrigeminate bodies, embedded in a fold of pia mater. It never attains a high grade of development in man, nor, in him, does it appear to possess any special functions, but in some of the lower vertebrates it appears to serve the purpose of an unpaired median eye, and, reaching the surface of the body, it is embedded in the parietal foramen in the skull wall. In the higher vertebrates, however, including man, it is displaced from a superficial position by the great development of the cerebral hemispheres. The pituitary body.—The pituitary body is connected in the adult with the floor of the third ventricle, and it is embedded in the pituitary fossa of the sphenoid bone. It consists of two lobes—an anterior, of somewhat glandular nature, and a posterior, in which remains of nervous structures can sometimes be recognised. The posterior lobe is formed by an outgrowth from the floor of the thalamencephalon, and in man and other mammals the anterior lobe is a diver- ticulum from the roof of the stomatodseum, or primitive mouth, but in the lower vertebrates the anterior lobe is formed by a diverticulum from the olfactory depression, and consequently its origin in man is a secondary one. The history of the pituitary body has not yet been fully elucidated, but it is believed that it represents the remains of the ancestral mouth, and that the mouth which is now formed has been developed by the fusion of a pair of gill clefts. THE EYE The canal of Cloquet or Stilling.—Almost in the axis of the eyeball there is a fine canal passing through the vitreous body from the optic papilla to the back of the capsule of the lens; this is the canalis hyaloideus, or the canal of Cloquet or Stilling. It is lined by a fine homogeneous membrane, and in the adult it may possibly serve as a lymph passage, but in the foetus it transmitted the capsular branch of the central artery of the retina from the optic papilla to the back of the lens capsule, which at that time was a very vascular structure.