THE SKELETON 152 Ligaments :— Capsular of hip-joint. External lateral of knee-joint. Ligamentum teres. Anterior crucial. Internal lateral of knee-joint. Posterior crucial. Posterior, or Winslow's. Blood-supply.—The head and neck of the femur receive branches from the sciatic, obturator, and circumflex arteries. The trochanter receives twigs from the circumflex arteries. The nutrient vessel for the shaft is derived from the second perforating; it enters near the middle of the linea aspera, and is directed towards the head of the bone. The condyles are nourished by articular branches from the popliteal and the anastomotic of the femoral. Ossification.—The shaft of the femur begins to ossify in the seventh week of intra-uterine life. Early in the ninth month a nucleus appears for the condyles. During the first year the nucleus for the head of the bone is visible, and one for the greater trochanter in the fourth year. The centre for the lesser trochanter is visible about the thirteenth or fourteenth year. The lesser trochanter joins the shaft at the eighteenth, the greater trochanter at the nineteenth, the head about the twentieth, and the condyles at the twenty-first year. The neck of the femur is an apophysis, or outgrowth from the shaft. The line of fusion of the condyloid epiphysis passes through the adductor tubercle. The morphological relation of the patellar facet to the articular portions of the condyles is worth notice. In a few mammals, such as the ox, this facet remains separated from the condyles by a furrow of rough bone. In the human femur it is faintly marked off by a shallow groove in the cartilage, best seen in a recently opened knee-joint. Some anatomists attribute these grooves in the cartilage to the pressure of the semilunar fibro-cartilages. The angle which the neck of the femur forms with the shaft measures at birth, on an average, 160°. In the adult it varies from 110° to 140°; hence the angle decreases greatly during the period of growth. When once growth is completed, the angle, as a rule, remains fixed. (Humphry.) THE PATELLA The patella is a sesamoid bone, somewhat triangular in shape, situated in front of the knee-joint. Its anterior surface is slightly convex, and pitted with Fig. 162.—The Left Patella. Anterior surface Posterior surface EXTERNAL ARTICULAR FACET LATERAL FACET FOR INTERNAL CONDYLE FOR THE PATELLAR LIGAMENT small openings, which transmit nutrient vessels to the interior of the bone. This