975 THE RECTUM AND ANUS The two remaining portions of the intestine extend from the middle of the third piece of the sacrum to the anus. It would be well if the term ' rectum' were to be limited to that part of the bowel which is below the level of the third segment of the sacrum, and which is free of any meso-colon. This portion of bowel—the rectum proper—may be divided into two portions. The first portion extends from the third piece of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx. This portion, about three and a half inches long, is only covered by peritoneum above, and then only over the anterior surface. Behind, it is in relation with the sacrum and coccyx. In front it is in relation with the trigone of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and under surface of the prostate. In the female the anterior surface is in relation with the vagina and the cervix uteri. The peritoneum is reflected from the rectum to the bladder in the male, and the vagina in the female (recto-vesical or recto-vaginal pouch). This pouch extends in the male to within about three inches of the anus. On the posterior surface of the gut there is no peritoneum below a point five inches from the anus. The second portion (or what used to be called the third portion) extends from the tip of the coccyx to the anus; it is about an inch and a half long. It differs from the first portion in the direction of its curve: while that follows the curve of the sacrum and coccyx, this portion turns backwards and downwards. It is not connected with the peritoneum. It is surrounded, after leaving the prostate, by the internal sphincter, while the levator ani is attached to its side. At its end the external sphincter is situated; in front is the triangular ligament of the perineum. Just above the anus the rectum is much dilated. The anus.—The anus is the aperture by which the intestine opens externally. During life it is contracted by the sphincters, so as to give the skin around a wrinkled appearance. Round the lower part of the rectum and anus certain muscles that are connected with its proper function are situated. They are the internal sphincter, the levator ani, and the external sphincter. The levator ani and external sphincter will be found described in another part. The internal sphincter is a thickening of the circular fibres of the intestine, situated round the rectum about an inch above the anus, and extending over half an inch of the intestine. It forms a complete muscular ring. It is two lines thick, and is paler than the external sphincter. The rectum differs from the rest of the colon in presenting perfectly smooth walls marked by no sacculi, by no longitudinal muscular bands, and by no appen- dices. The mucous membrane of the rectum is thicker than that of the rest of the large intestine. Certain folds, chiefly longitudinal in direction, are seen in the lax state of the tube, which disappear when distended. Houston has described three oblique semilunar folds, which project into the lumen of the tube: one in front by the prostate, and two others higher up; one from the left side, and one on the right, the highest. Structure of the large intestine.—There are four coats: a serous, muscular, mucous, and submucous. The serous is derived from the peritoneum, and is more or less complete. The appendices epiploicse in connection with this layer have been mentioned (fig. 576). The muscular coat is divided into circular and longitudinal layers, the longi- tudinal being external. The arrangement of the longitudinal fibres has been described in as far as they make up the three longitudinal bands (fig. 576). Only a small amount of longitudinal fibres are found between the bands, except on the vermiform appendix and lower part of the sigmoid flexure, where they are arranged all round. The circular fibres form a thin layer, and are mostly collected in the interval between the sacculi. The mucous membrane, separated from the muscular layer by the submucous layer, has no villi, and no valvula? conniventes. Blood-vessels.—The large intestine is supplied with blood by the branches of the superior mesenteric and inferior mesenteric arteries, while it also receives a blood-supply from the internal iliac at the rectum. The vessels form a continuous