1194 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY the tibialis posticus, its nerve being to the outer side. The peroneal would be close to the fibula in the flexor longus hallucis. The musculo-cutaneous nerve, having passed through the peroneus longus, and then between the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis, perforates the deep fascia in the lower third of the leg in the line of the septum between the peronei and extensors. Directly after, it divides into its two terminal branches. THE ANKLE Bony landmarks.—Malleoli.—The following are the differences between them: The internal is the more prominent, shorter, and is placed more anteriorly than the outer, being a little in front of the centre of the joint. The external descends lower by a half to three-quarters of an inch, and thus securely locks in the joint on this side; it is opposite to the centre of the ankle-joint, being jflaced about half an inch behind its fellow. Owing, however, to the greater width of the internal malleolus, its posterior border is on a level with that of its fellow. The anterior margin of the lower end of the tibia can be traced above the ankle-joint, crossed by the tendons given below. Owing to the external malleolus descending lower than the inner, in Syme's and Pirogoff's amputations the incision should run between the tip of the external malleolus and a point half an inch below that of the internal one. When a fracture is set, or a dislocation adjusted, the inner edge of the patella, the internal malleolus, and the inner side of the great toe are useful landmarks and should be in the same vertical plane, regard being paid at the same time to the corresponding points in the opposite limb (Holden). Tendons.—(A) In front of ankie.—From without inwards are—(1) The tibialis anticus, the largest and most internal. This tendon appears in the lower third of the leg, lying just under the deep fascia, close to the tibia; then, crossing over the lower end of this and the ankle-joint, it passes over the inner side of the tarsus, to be attached to the inner and lower part of the internal cuneiform and the adjacent part of the first metatarsal. (2) The extensor proprius hallucis. This tendon, concealed above, appears low down in a line just external to the last, and then, crossing over the termination of the anterior tibial vessels and nerves (to which its muscular part lies external), it descends along the inner part of the dorsum to be attached to the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. (3) and (4) The extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius enter a common sheath in the anterior annular ligament. The former then divides into four tendons, which, joined on the first phalanx by slips, three from the extensor brevis, and, a little later, by slips from the lumbricales and interossei, are inserted into the second and last phalanges, as in the fingers. The peroneus tertius is inserted into the upper surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. (B) Behind.—The tendo Achillis, the thickest of all tendons, begins near the middle of the leg, in the junction of the tendons of the gastrocnemii and soleus. Very broad at its commencement, it gradually narrows and becomes very thick. About an inch and a half from the heel, or about the level of the internal malleolus, is its narrowest point. After this it again expands slightly, to be attached to the middle of the back part of the calcaneum. The long tendon of the plantaris runs along its inner side, to blend with it or to be attached to the calca- neum. On either side of the tendo Achillis are well-marked furrows below. Along the inner, the tendon of the tibialis posticus and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve come nearer the surface. Along the outer, the external saphenous vein (more superficially) ascends from behind the external malleolus. (C) On the inner side.—The tendon of the tibialis posticus, which has previously crossed from the interspace between the bones of the leg to the inner side, lies behind the inner edge of the tibia above the internal malleolus, being under the flexor longus digitorum, the two tendons here becoming superficial on the inner side of the tendo Achillis. It then passes forwards close below the sus- tentaculum tali and the head of the astragalus, and then very close to the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament (vide infra), and so to its insertion, by numerous slips, into the tarsus and metatarsus, especially the tubercle of the scaphoid. The tendon