EXTERNAL ILIAC 577 left. The genital branch of the genito-crural nerve runs obliquely over its lower third, and just before its termination it is crossed transversely by the deep circum- flex iliac vein. The spermatic vessels lie for a short distance on the lower part of the artery, and the vas deferens in the male and the ovarian vessels in the female curve over it to descend to the pelvis. It is sometimes crossed at its origin by the ureter. The external iliac lymphatic glands lie along the course of the artery. The commencement of its deep epigastric branch is also in front. Behind.—At first the artery lies partly upon its own vein; lower down upon the inner border of the psoas; and just before it passes through the lacuna vascu- losa, beneath Poupart's ligament, upon the tendon of the psoas. The continuation of the iliac into the pelvic fascia is also below it. To its inner side is the external iliac vein, the peritoneum, the descending layer of fascia, and the vas deferens in the male, and ovarian vessels in the female. To its outer side is the psoas muscle and the iliac fascia. Variations.—(A) The external iliac may be longer or shorter than usual, according as the common iliac bifurcates above or below the usual spot. When longer it often takes a very tor- tuous course, making a partial loop or bend which may dip down below the brim of the pelvis. (B) It may be much smaller in size than usual; this is especially the case in those instances in which the femoral or main vessel of the lower limb arises from the sciatic or other branch of the internal iliac. It then often ends in the profunda. (C) It may give off a large branch, as the deep circumflex iliac or deep epigastric, higher than usual. The collateral circulation is carried on (fig. 372), when the external iliac is tied, by the anas- tomosis of the ilio-lumbar and lumbar arteries with the circumflex iliac ; the internal mammary with the deep epigastric ; the obturator with the internal circumflex ; the sciatic with the internal circumflex and superior perforating ; the gluteal with the external circumflex ; the arteria comes nervi ischiatici from the sciatic, with the perforating branches of the profunda; the external pudic with the internal pudic ; the pubic branch of the obturator with the pubic branch of the epigastric. The branches of the external iliac artery are:—(1) The deep epigastric; (2) the deep circumflex iliac; and (3) several small and insignificant twigs to the neighbouring psoas muscle and lymphatic glands. (1) The Deep Epigastric Artery The deep epigastric artery usually comes off from the external iliac just above Poupart's ligament, Immediately after its origin, the vas deferens in the male, and the round ligament in the female, loop round it on their way to the pelvis, drawing, as it were, the artery slightly inwards and downwards. It here lies internal to the inner margin of the deep or internal abdominal ring behind the inguinal canal, and a little to the upper and outer side of the femoral ring. Thence it passes upwards and inwards, above and to the outer side of the superficial or external abdominal ring, lying between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum to the lower margin of the posterior layer of the sheath of the rectus (fold of Doug- las). Having pierced the fascia transversalis at this point, it passes in front of Douglas' fold and turns upwards between the rectus and its sheath, lying here about midway between the outer and inner edge of the muscle. Higher, it enters the substance of the muscle, and anastomoses with the superior epigastric, descend- ing in the rectus from the internal mammary. The situation of the artery between the two abdominal rings should be borne in mind in the operation for strangulated inguinal hernia, and its near proximity to the upper and outer side of the femoral ring should not be forgotten in the operation for femoral hernia, The artery is accompanied by two veins, of which the inner is the larger. They end in a single trunk before opening into the external iliac vein. The deep epigastric gives off the following small branches:—(a) The cremas- teric, which runs with the vas through the inguinal canal, supplies the cremaster muscle, and anastomoses with the spermatic, inferior external pudic, and superficial perinseal arteries, (b) The pubic, which passes below, or sometimes above, the femoral ring to the back of the pubes, Avhere it anastomoses with the pubic branch 37