OLFA CTOR Y NER \rES 745 FIRST OR OLFACTORY NERVES The olfactory nerves are twenty to thirty in number on each side. They rise from the lower surfaces of the olfactory bulbs, and are grey filaments devoid of white sheaths. They pass in two rows, inner and outer, through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. Entering the olfactory mucous membrane they anastomose together and afterwards break up into filaments. The filaments of the outer group are distributed over the upper and middle turbinal bones in the upper fifth of the outer wall of the nasal cavity, and those of the inner group over a similar extent of the upper part of the septum. The olfactory nerve-fibres are processes of special olfactory cells in the upper parts of the nasal mucous membrane. They terminate in the olfactory bulb in ramifications which are interwoven with the dendrites of the mitral cells of the bulb forming with them the olfactory glomeruli. From the mitral cells fibres pass Fig. 442.—Nerves of the Nasal Cavity. NASAL OLFACTORY FRONTAL SINUS NERVE NERVE O LFA CTOR Y NER VE TO SUPERIOR TUB- BIN A TE BONE SPHENOIDAL SINUS VIDIAN NERVE MECKEL'S GANGLION DESCENDING PALATINE ORIFICE OF EUSTACHIAN TUBE NASAL BRANCHES POSTERIOR PALATINE ANTERIOR PALATINE MIDDLE PALATINE backwards into the olfactory tract. These may be classified into two groups, namely:—(a) Fibres which enter the cortex of the tract; and (6) fibres which pass through the white matter to other parts of the brain without becoming connected to the cortex of the tract, (a) From the cortex of the tract some fibres pass via the external white root to the cortex of the temporal lobe. Others enter the ante- rior commissure, and proceed to the cerebral cortex of the opposite side, (b) Of the fibres which pass directly through the tract, some pass by the external white root to the temporal lobe; others pass as a slender tract into the under border of the internal capsule, and so reach the front of the optic thalamus (Obersteiner). A commissural bundle of fibres, which passes from one olfactory tract to its fellow of the opposite side, via the anterior commissure, is also described. As they pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate, the olfactory nerve- fibres are invested by sheaths derived from the dura mater.