THE ARTERIES 504 (b) The hemispheral or cortical branches come off from the middle cerebral opposite the insula. They are four in number:—(i) The inferior, or orbito- frontal, to the inferior frontal convolutions, (ii) The ascending frontal, to the lower part of the ascending frontal convolution, the upper part being supplied by the margino-frontal, a branch of the anterior cerebral, (iii) The parietal, to the whole of the ascending parietal and the adjacent part of the inferior parietal convo- lution, (iv) The parietotemporal, to the convolutions around the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius—viz. the supra-marginal, the angular, and the posterior part of the inferior parietal above, and the first and the greater part of the second and third temporal below. The Circle of Willis The anastomosis of the branches of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries at the base of the brain is known as the circle of Willis (fig. 340). This so-called Fig. 340.—The Aetekies of the Beain. (The posterior part of the cerebrum on the left side has been cut away to show the cerebellum. From a preparation in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Anterior cerebral artery Middle cerebral artery Internal carotid artery Postero^niedian perforating Posterior cerebral artery Superior cerebellar artery Anterior inferior cerebellar artery Vertebral artery Posterior inferior cerebellar artery Anterior com- municating artery Antero-lateral perforating Anterior choroid Posterior communicating artery Posterior choroid Basilar artery Crus cerebelli, cut Anterior spinal artery circle, which has really the form of a heptagon, is formed, in front, by the anterior communicating artery uniting the anterior cerebral arteries of opposite sides; laterally, by the trunk of the internal carotid and the posterior communicating arteries stretching between it and the posterior cerebral; behind, by the two posterior cerebrals diverging from the bifurcation of the basilar artery (page 543). This free anastomosis between the two internal carotid and the two vertebral arteries serves to equalise the flow of blood to the various portions of the brain; and, should one or more of the arteries entering into the formation of the circle be temporarily or permanently obstructed, it ensures a flow of blood to the otherwise deprived part through some of the collateral arteries. Thus, if one carotid or one vertebral is obstructed, the parts supplied by that vessel receive their blood through the circle from the remaining pervious vessels. Indeed, one vertebral artery alone has been found equal to the task of carrying sufficient blood for the supply of the