THE MUSCLES 434 Insertion.—The skin over the posterior and lower part of the alar cartilage. Structure.—A thin stratum of parallel muscular fibres running forwards and downwards. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve. Action.—To dilate the nostril. Relations.—Superficially, the skin and levator labii superioris akeque nasi; deeply, the sesamoid cartilages. MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH The muscles of the mouth consist, first, of the orbicularis oris, which is the' sphincter surrounding the aperture; and secondly, of the bands which radiate from this, as a centre, to their origin upon the adjacent facial bones. These may be grouped into three sets: viz. (1) the transverse series, which radiate transversely. This consists of only one pair of muscles, the buccinators. (2) The angular series, which pass from above or below to the corner of the mouth. (3) The labial series, which pass nearly vertically either downwards or upwards to the lips, and chiefly to their inner half. A fourth series maybe added, which have no special connection with the mouth, viz. two nearly vertical muscles close to the middle line, which radiate from an origin close to the mouth. Of these, one has already been described, the depressor ala? nasi; the other arises from the lower jaw, the levator menti. The muscles might also be arranged according to their stratification, for they form two, and, in some parts, three layers over the greater part of this region. 1. ORBICULARIS ORIS The orbicularis oris—an unpaired muscle, named from its shape and situation —is an oval sheet with the long axis placed transversely, and its fibres arranged round a transverse central aperture. Like the orbicularis oculi, the muscle may 1 >e divided into an internal or labial portion, and an external or facial. The first part, which is superficial, has no bony connection, except through the medium of the adjacent muscles with which it is closely blended. The second, which is deep and which forms part of the third layer of the facial muscles, has the following small attachments to bone and cartilage. Attachments to bone and cartilage.—(1) Naso-labial slips from the back of the lower part of the cartilage of the septum of the nose; (2) the incisive fossa of the maxilla just above the socket of the lateral incisor tooth; (3) the incisive fossa of the mandible, below the sockets of the lateral incisor and canine teeth. Structure.—The orbicularis oris consists of three sets of fibres, which are in their direction approximately transverse, vertical, and sagittal or antero- posterior. The transverse set form the most conspicuous part of the muscle; they are continuous on either side with the fibres of the buccinator, and they con- stitute the greater part of the fine smooth bundles which lie beneath the red skin of the prolabium, and are called the labial portion of the muscle. The vertical fibres are derived from the elevators and depressors of the lips, including the zygo- matici; they form the superficial part of the facial portion, and they interlace with the transverse fibres. Many of them pass round the corners of the mouth and become transverse; those arising from the maxilla and its vicinity passing to the lower lip, while those from the mandible go to the upper. The sagittal or antero- posterior fibres pass directly or somewhat obliquely from before backwards between the transverse fibres, ami unite the skin to the mucous membrane. They are found chiefly in the labial portion of the muscle. The two naso-labial slips pass side by side vertically downwards to the upper part of the muscle, their posi- tion being indicated upon the surface by two small vertical ridges which descend from the columna nasi on either side of the median groove of the upper lip. The