THE A R TICULA TIONS 220 (b) The Cokaco-clavicular Union The coraco-clavicular ligament (figs. 222, 223 and 226) consists of two parts, the conoid and the trapezoid ligaments. The conoid ligament is the internal and posterior portion, and passes upwards and outwards from the coracoid process to the clavicle. It is a very strong and coarsely fasciculated band of triangular shape, the apex being fixed to the inner and posterior edge of the root of the coracoid process just in front of the suprascapular notch, some fibres joining the transverse ligament. Its base is at the clavicle, where it widens out, to be attached to the posterior edge of the under surface, as well as to the conoid tubercle. It is easily separated from the trapezoid without being absolutely distinct. A small bursa often exists between it and the coracoid process; internally, some of the fibres of the subdavius muscle are often attached to it, The trapezoid ligament is the anterior and outer portion. It is a strong, flat, Fig. 222.—Anterior View of Shoulder, showing also Coraco-clavicular and Coraco-acromial Ligaments. Conoid ligament quadrilateral plane of closely-woven fibres, the surfaces of which look upwards and inwards towards the clavicle, and downwards and outwards over the upper surface of the coracoid process. At the coracoid it is attached for about an inch (2*5 cm.) to a rough ridge which runs forwards from the angle, along the anterior border of the process. At the clavicle, it is attached to the oblique ridge which runs out- wards and forwards from the conoid tubercle, reaching as far as, and blending with the inferior part of the acromio-clavicular ligament. Its anterior edge is free, and overlies the coraco-acromial ligament; the posterior edge is shorter than the anterior, and is in contact with the posterior and outer portion of the conoid ligament. The arterial supply is derived from the suprascapular, acromial branches of the acromio-thoracic, and the anterior circumflex. The nerve-supply is derived from the suprascapular and circumflex nerves. Movements.—In the movements of the shoulder girdle, the scapula moves upon the outer end of the clavicle, and the clavicle, in turn, carried by the uniting