ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI 379 by the inner head. The tendon to which these fleshy fibres converge appears first upon the inner and lower aspect of the muscle, and receives fleshy fibres nearly to its insertion, which is closely blended with that of the inner portion of the flexor brevis hallucis. The deep surface of the muscle arises from a fibrous arch attached on the one side to the septum between it and the flexor brevis digitorum; on the other side to the tibialis jaosticus tendon and the fibrous tissue covering the under surface of the tarsal bones along the inner border of the foot. Through this arch pass the plantar vessels and nerves. Nerve-supply.—The internal plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve, by filaments which enter the deep surface of the middle of the muscle. Action.—(T) To flex the first phalanx upon the metatarsal bone; (2) to abduct from the middle line of the foot the first phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—Superficially, the internal division of the plantar fascia; upon its outer border, the flexor brevis digitorum; deeply, the tendons of the tibialis anti- cus, tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, the plantar vessels and nerves. Variations.—A third head is occasionally derived from the deep surface of the skin upon the inner border of the foot, or from the long plantar ligament. The muscle may give a slip to the second toe. 2. FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM The flexor brevis digitorum pedis, or flexor perforatus—named from its being the shorter of the flexors of the four outer toes—is a triangular sheet, divided in front into four processes corresponding to the tendons of the toes. Origin.—(1) The outer part of the front of the lower surface of the great tubercle of the calcaneum; (2) the deep surface of the back part of the central portion of the plantar fascia; (3) the back part of the intermuscular septa on either side. Insertion.—The sides of the middle phalanx of each of the four outer toes upon its plantar aspect. Structure.—-Arising tendinous by a pointed process from the under surface of the great tubercle, the fleshy fibres extend in a fan-shaped sheet, which, about half- way between the origin and the heads of the metatarsal bones, divides into four fleshy processes which soon become tendinous. The tendons are arranged in a similar manner to those of the flexor sublimis digitorum in the hand. After split- ting beneath the first phalanx of the toe, the two halves of each tendon pass round the sides of the flexor longus digitorum tendon, and about the level of the base of the second phalanx they unite by their adjacent margins, and again diverge to be attached to the sides of the plantar surface of the second phalanx. Nerve-supply.—From the internal plantar division of the posterior tibial, by branches which enter the back of the deep aspect of the muscle near its inner border. Action.—This muscle, which is comparatively feeble, will flex the second pha- langes of the toes, and in combination with the flexor longus digitorum it will assist in walking, by pressing the under surface of the phalanges of the toes against the ground. After it has flexed the second phalanges, it will act in a similar man- ner upon the metatarso-phalangeal and medio-tarsal joints. Relations.—Superficially, the plantar fascia; on either side, the other muscles of the first layer of the sole; deeply, the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and the lumbricales, the accessorius muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Variations.—The part of the muscle which belongs to the little toe is often absent (see fig. 294), and its place may be supplied by a small perforated slip from the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. 3. ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI The abductor minimi digiti (pedis)—named from its action upon the fifth and smallest toe—is a thick triangular sheet, partly muscular and partly aponeurotic. Origin.—(1) The outer side and the under surface of the front of the lesser