AXILLAR1 521 The Third Part of the Axillary Artery The third part of the axillary artery (fig. 346) extends from the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the lower border of the teres major. Its upper half lies deeply placed within the axilla, beneath the lower edge of the pectoralis major muscle, but its lower half is in the arm external to the axilla, and is uncovered by muscle. It measures about three inches in length (7 "5 cm. ). Relations.—In front it has, in addition to the skin and superficial fascia, the pectoralis major above, and lower down the deep fascia of the arm. It is crossed obliquely by the inner root of the median nerve and by the outer brachial vena comes. Behind, it lies successively upon the subscapularis, the latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. From the first-named muscle it is separated at first by a con- siderable mass of fat and cellular tissue. The musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves intervene between the artery and the muscles. On its outer side it is separated from the bone by the coraco-brachialis, by which it is partly overlapped, this muscle and the short head of the biceps serving as a guide to the artery in ligature. For a part of its course it has also the musculo- cutaneous nerve and the outer root of the median nerve to its outer side. To its inner side it has the axillary vein, the ulnar nerve, the internal cutaneous nerve, the lesser internal cutaneous nerve, and the inner root of the median nerve. The ulnar nerve is between the artery and the vein. The internal cutaneous nerve is a little in front of the artery as well as internal to it. Variations in the Axillary Artery The chief variations in the axillary artery are :—(a) It may give off the radial artery ; (b) more rarely, the ulnar artery ; (c) still more rarely, the interosseous artery, or a vas aberrans ; {d) it may give off a common trunk, from which may arise the subscapular, the anterior and posterior circumflex, and the superior and inferior profunda arteries. The branches of the brachial plexus usually surround this common trunk, and not what is apparently the main brachial artery. The latter vessel indeed would seem in many of these instances to be really an enlarged vas aberrans, and the common trunk the main brachial artery, the lower portion of which has been obliterated, i.e. obliterated from the last branch given off from the common trunk to the spot where it is again joined by the vas aberrans. (e) The axillary artery may be covered in the third part of its course by a muscular slip (the dorsi axillaris), derived from the upper part of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and always present in early foetal life, though as a rule atrophied later. Branches of the Axillary Artery The first part gives off:—(1) The superior thoracic; and (2) the acromio- thoracic. The second part gives off:—(1) The long thoracic; and (2) the alar thoracic, The third part gives off:—(1) The subscapular; (2) the anterior circumflex; and (3) the posterior circumflex. Branches of the First Part of the Axillary Artery 1. The superior or short thoracic is variously given off from the axillary artery, usually either as a common trunk with the next branch, the acromial thoracic, or a little above. It passes behind the axillary vein across the first inter- costal space, supplying the intercostal muscles and the upper portion of the ser- ratus magnus, and anastomoses with the intercostal arteries. At times it sends a branch between the pectoralis major and minor, which then, as a rule, more or less takes the place of the pectoral branch of the acromial thoracic. 2. The acromio-thoracic, or thoracic axis, arises from the front part of the axillary just above the upper border of the pectoralis minor. It is a short trunk, and coming off from the front of the artery pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and then divides into three or. four small branches, named from their direction:— (a) the acromial, or thoracica acromialis; (b) the humeral, or thoracica humeralis; (c) the pectoral, or short thoracic of some authors; a)nd (d) the clavicular.