THE TESTICLES 1027 of the tunica albuginea, and subdivide the interior of the capsule into a number of loculi (150-200). Within these loculi lie the testicular tubules, supported by a fine retiform connective tissue, which becomes condensed into a highly vascular lamina called the tunica vasculosa, where it is in contact with the albuginea. The proper secreting substance consists of fine branching and anastomosing canals, the tubuli seminiferi, about yfg-th of an inch (.2 mm.) in diameter, and lined with a layer of cubical cells in which are developed the spermatic filaments or spermatozoa. The tubules are collected into little bundles, called lobules, about three hundred in number, each comprising two or more separate tubes. The number of these lobules is variously estimated (300-400), and the total length of the component tubules has been calculated roughly at about nine hundred yards. By the union of the tubules of the different lobules are formed a number of larger tubes, the tubuli recti, which converge towards the mediastinum, and on entering it break up into a plexus, the rete testis ; from the rete in turn spring twelve to twenty efferent tubes, or vasa efferentia, twice or three times as large as the tubules, and these, piercing the upper and back part of the albuginea, end in the bead of the epididymis (fig. 623). The epididymis, representing the second stage in the course of the seminiferous Fig. 623.—Diagram of the Testicular Tubules. INUM TESTIS vessels, is invested by a tunica albuginea continuous-with that of the testicle proper, but of much greater tenuity. The vasa efferentia, after their escape from the testicle proper, form each a tube about six to eight inches in length, lined with ciliated epithelium and coiled in such a manner as to assume the form of a conical mass, the conus vasculosus, with the apex towards the albuginea. The coni vasculosi grouped together constitute the globus major, and their respective tubules are collected by a single canal, the tube of the epididymis, which by its complex coils, fifteen to twenty feet in length, makes up the body and globus minor of the epididymis, and finally terminates in the free portion of the duct, the vas deferens. It presents near its termination one or more diverticula, the largest and most constant of which, the vas aberrans of Haller, ranges from an inch and a half to fifteen inches in length, and runs up between the body of the epididymis and the commencement of the vas deferens. The tube of the epididymis, like those of the coni vasculosi, is lined with ciliated epithelium, but its walls are thick, and contain two layers of unstriped muscular fibres. Two little bodies of some morphological interest are to be found appended to the testicle proper and the globus major. The less constant of these, known as the hydatid of Morgagni, is a pediculated sac from one-eighth to one-third of an inch in length, dilated at its free extremity and containing a clear fluid; the other,