872 ORGAXS OF SPECIAL SEXSE aurem, have been described on page 431. The special intrinsic muscles are six in number. They are difficult to display, and sometimes appear to be absent. Helicis major is a narrow slip which arises from the spine of the helix and passes upwards along the rim of the helix to near its summit. Helicis minor is an oblique fasciculus overlying the commencement of the helix. The tragicus consists of nearly vertical fibres lying over the outer surface of the tragus. The antitragicus arises from the outer surface of the antitragus to pass to tbe caudate process. The transversus auris consists of mixed muscular and tendinous fibres which with the following lies on the cranial aspect of the pinna, and traverses the hollow- formed between the bulging of the concha and the convexity corresponding to the groove of the helix. The obliquus auris crosses the hollow between the concha and fossa of the antihelix. Vessels.—The arteries are the posterior auricular from the external carotid, and the anterior auricular from the temporal. The veins enter the posterior auricular and temporal veins. Nerves.—The inner surface of the pinna is supplied by three cutaneous nerves, the great auricular, the small occipital and the auricular branch of the vagus. The great auricular supplies the lower three-quarters, with the exception of a small portion near the meatus which, together with the back of the meatus, is supplied by the auricular branch of the vagus. The small occipital supplies the upper fourth. Occasionally the great occipital sends a branch to the uppermost part of the inner surface. The upper two-thirds of the outer surface receive their cutaneous supply from the auriculo-temporal nerve, and the lower third is supplied by the great auricular. The intrinsic muscles on the inner surface are supplied by the posterior auricular branch of the facial and those on the outer surface by the temporal branch of the same nerve. The External Auditory Meatus is about an inch long (25 mm.). It com- mences at the bottom of the concha, and passes inwards and a little forwards to end at the membrana tympani. It is narrowest at its centre. Near its orifice it is oval from above downwards, but at its termination it is somewhat broader from