10 THE SKELETON is not bifid, but has two small lateral tubercles which give attachment to the liga- mentum nuchse. The transverse processes are of large size; the costal processes are very small; and the costo-transverse foramina are the smallest of the series or wanting. Very frequently the costal process is segmented off, and constitutes a cervical rib, sometimes of large size. Occasionally a demi-facet exists on each side of the lower border of the centrum for the head of the first rib. When this demi-facet is present, there is usually a well-developed cervical rib. Fig. 11.—The Cervical Vertebrae. Rectus capitis posticus minor (Posterior view.) Rectus capitis lateralis Superior oblique Inferior oblique Rectus capitis posticus major (The pointer crosses the origin of the inferior oblique) Semispinalis colli Cerviealis transversus Semispinalis colli Cerviealis transversus Cerviealis ascendens Semispinalis colli Cerviealis transversus Cerviealis aacendens Cerviealis transversus Cerviealis aseendens Semispinalis colli Levator eostae (origin) Aceessorius (insertion) Interspinals Interspinals Trapezius Rhomboideus minor Serratus posticus superior Splenius Complexus TRANSVERSE PROCESS OF ATLAS Levator anguli scapulse (origin) Splenius colli (insertion^ Levator anguli scapula Splenius colli Scalenus medius (insertion) Levator anguli scapulae Splenius colli Scalenus medxus Complexus Levator anguli scapulae Splenius colli (sometimes) Scalenus medius Complexus and multifidus spinae Scalenus medius Scalenus posticus Complexus and trachelo- mastoid Multifidus spinae Scalenus medius Scalenus posticus Complexus and trachelo- mastoid Multifidus spinae Scalenus medius Scalenus posticus Complexus and traehelo- mastoid Multifidus spinae (The large surface is for the multifidus spinas^ Multifidus apinse (and to each spinous proceBS as high as the second; The cervical vertebrae also exhibit great variation in regard to the extremities of their spinous processes. As a rule among Europeans, the second, third, fourth, and fifth vertebrae possess bifid spines. The sixth and seventh exhibit a tendency to bifurcate, their tips presenting two small lateral tubercles; sometimes the sixth has a bifid spine, and more rarely the seventh presents the same condition. Occasionally all the cervical spines, with the exception of the second, are non-bifid, and even in the axis the bifurcation is not extensive. In the lower races of men the cervical spines are relatively shorter and more stunted than in Europeans generally, and, as