THE LARYNX 905 The internal is unimportant; it is tied to the corresponding cartilage and to the cricoid by a fibrous band which is known as the transverse or crico-arytenoid ligament. The borders.—The two internal, which limit the narrow inner face, are nearly parallel and almost vertical; whilst the external slopes upwards, inwards, and backwards. The apex projects inwards and backwards, and supports the corniculum. The cartilage here becomes fibrous in structure. The EPIGLOTTIS is a median leaf-like plate of yellow, elastic cartilage attached by a stalk inferiorly to the retiring angle of the thyroid cartilage below the median notch. When denuded of its mucous covering, it is seen to be pitted with numerous depressions for the lodgment of glands (fig. 530). Placed with its lingual surface above, and its stalk in front, it has been compared to an elongated saddle. It varies very considerably both in shape and inclination, its leaf-like portion being sometimes considerably curled upon itself. It is placed nearly vertically in the adult, but in children is frequently so much depressed that its posterior free surface is inclined below its anterior. Hence its variable appearance when examined in the living subject with the laryngoscope. It is somewhat depressed and folded upon itself during deglutition. Its anterior or lingual aspect is free above and covered with mucous membrane, which lower down is reflected forward upon the base of the tongue in three folds— one median (which encloses elastic tissue) and two lateral—the glosso-epiglotti- dean folds. Beneath the mucous membrane the deeper attached portion of this surface is tied to the hyoid bone by a median elastic membrane, named hyo-epi- glottidean ligament, and by small bands of muscular fibres. A quantity of elastic and fatty tissue, closely blended with the hyo-epiglotti- dean ligament above, connects the epiglottis to tbe thyro-hyoid membrane in front. This is known as the periglottis (fig. 528). Still lower, the fibro-elastic tissue which forms the thyro-epiglottidean ligament attaches the stalk to the thyroid car- tilage. The posterior or laryngeal surface, concavo-convex from above downwards, and concave from side to side, is free and covered with mucous membrane for its whole extent. About its centre it projects backwards to form the cushion of the epiglottis. The lateral margins, which are free above, give attachment below to the aryteno- epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane which form the boundaries of the supe- rior aperture of the larynx, and also on each side to a fold of the membrane, con- taining fibrous tissue, which runs upwards to the posterior pillar of the fauces— the pharyngo-epiglottidean fold. The CORNICULA LARYNGIS, or cartilages of Santorini, are the two little cone-shaped yellow elastic cartilages which project backwards and inwards from the summits of the arytenoids, with which they are sometimes directly continuous. A joint, however, is usually present. The CUNEIFORM CARTILAGES, or cartilages of Wrisberg, are placed within the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. These small conical and elongated yellow elastic cartilages produce the thickenings of the folds in front of the cornicula. Calcification.—The hyaline cartilages of the larynx are especially prone*to calcify after middle life, but the yellow elastic cartilages take no share in the pro- cess. The little cartilago triticea, however, which lies in the thyro-hyoid liga- ment, is frequently converted into bone. In the thyroid cartilage the deposit of bony salts usually commences near the posterior border and in the cornua, extending forwards into the lower part of the ala, and finally upwards, until in advanced cases the whole cartilage is involved. In the cricoid cartilage the calcification commences above on each side in the neighbourhood of the crico-arytenoid joints, and extends downwards, and finally both forwards and backwards. In the arytenoid the calcification commences in the base, but it finally involves the whole cartilage with the exception of the summit, where the hyaline structure (as already noted) disappears. The ligaments (extrinsic).—The thyro-hyoid membrane is composed