THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS 1028 rarely absent, has about the same dimensions, but is usually sessile and flattened, and may be subdivided into two or three lobes. It is believed to correspond to the upper end of the Fallopian tube, and to be a relic of the Mullerian duct (page 1057), the foetal structure from which are developed the most important parts of the internal genitals of the female. Another relic, called the paradidymis, or organ of Giraldes, probably derived from the Wolffian body (page 1056), is seen over the lowest portion of the spermatic cord immediately above the bead of the epididymis. It consists of coiled tubules, blind and dilated at both ends, lying beneath the visceral layer of the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis. It usually has the appearance of a white or yellowish irregular patch about one-fifth of an inch in diameter. Any of tbese embryonic structures may give rise to cystic tumors, and the aberrant tubes are probably not an uncommon source of origin of true spermatic cysts containing seminal fluid. Fig. 624.—Vasa Deferentia and Vesiculjs Seminai.es. (After Sappey.) VAS DEFERENS ORIFICE OF SINUS POCULARIS LOWER END OF VERUMONTANUM VESICULA SEMINAUS The testicle remains small until the period of puberty, and then, together with the penis and prostate, it begins to undergo rapid development; but in some cases its evolution is arrested before it has attained its full dimensions, and this is particu- larly liable to occur when its descent into the scrotum has been intercepted, or when a varicose dilatation of its veins appears before adolescence. In old age it usually loses much of its functional activity, but this is not invariably the case. The VAS DEFERENS is the continuation of the tube of the epididymis, and extends from the globus minor to the prostatic portion of the urethra. In the lower part of its course it is slender and tortuous, but it becomes thicker and straighter as it ascends along the back of the epididymis (testicular stage), and attains its full size before it reaches the top of the organ. • From this point it is the principal element of the spermatic cord, and runs upwards almost vertically as far as the external inguinal ring (funicular stage); entering the inguinal canal, it runs obliquely outwards, upwards, and slightly backwards to the internal ring (inguinal stage). It then quits the associated vessels of the cord, and, winding around the origin of the deep epigastric artery to the inner side of the external iliac artery and