111 THE SCAPULA The following muscles are attached to the clavicle:— Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Pectoralis major. Subclavius. Deltoid. Trapezius. Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroicl (occasionally). Ligaments :— Capsular (sterno-clavicular). Rhomboid or costo-clavicular. Capsular (acromio-clavicular) Interclavicular. Interarticular (sternal). Interarticular (acromio-clavicular). Conoid. Trapezoid. Costo-coracoid membrane. Deep cervical fascia. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is a branch of the suprascapular; it enters the bone on the under surface of the shaft near the middle of the subclavian groove. It is directed towards the acromial end. The acromial end of the clavicle receives numerous branches from the acromio-thoracic artery, and twigs from the arteries in the muscles attached to it. Ossification.—The clavicle is ossified from two centres. The primary nucleus appears in the sixth week of embryonic life in the tissue immediately overlying the cartilaginous pre-coracoid bar (see p. 115). The clavicle begins as a membrane- bone, but the ossification quickly extends into the underlying cartilage; it is therefore a dermal splint engrafted on cartilage. About the seventeenth year a secondary nucleus appears at the sternal end. Consolidation is complete by the twentieth year. The scapula is a large flat bone, triangular in shape, situated on the posterior aspect of the thorax, and resting on the ribs from the second to the seventh. Of its two surfaces the anterior is deeply concave, forming the subscapular fossa, which is marked by several ridges commencing at the posterior border of the bone and passing obliquely upwards; these ridges divide this surface into several shallow grooves from which the subscapularis muscle takes origin: the highest groove is the deepest. The outer third of this surface is smooth, and overlapped by the sub- scapular muscle: the superior and inferior angles are somewhat triangular, and connected by a narrow ridge of bone along the posterior border. This ridge and its terminal surfaces serve for the insertion of the serratus magnus. The posterior surface, or dorsum, is generally convex; it is unequally divided by a prominent ridge of bone, the spine. The hollow above the spine is the supra- spinous fossa, and lodges the supra-spinatus muscle. The part below the spine is the infraspinous fossa; it is larger than the supraspinous fossa, and is limited inferiorly by a ridge which runs from the glenoid fossa backwards to join the posterior border a short distance above the inferior angle. To this oblique ridge the stout aponeurosis is attached which separates the teres major and teres minor muscles from the infraspinatus muscle. The infraspinatus arises from the inner two-thirds of the infraspinous fossa, and overlaps the outer third. The supra- and infraspinous fossa? communicate with each other around the outer end of the spine; this part corresponds to the neck of the scapula, and the groove is the scapular notch; it transmits the suprascapular nerve and artery from one fossa to the other. The surface of bone below the oblique ridge presents two, and occa- sionally three, facets for muscles: the long narrow outer one is for the origin of the teres minor ; this is crossed near its middle by a groove for the dorsal artery of the THE SCAPULA