THE HIP-JOINT 247 On laying open the capsule, some of the deeper fibres are seen reflected upwards along the "neck of the femur, to be attached much nearer the head: these are the retinacula. One corresponds to the upper, and another to the lower part of the spiral line; a third is seen at the upper and back part of the neck. They form flat bands, which lie on the femoral neck. Superadded to the capsule, and considerably strengthening it, are three auxi- liary bands, whose fibres are intimately blended with, and in fact form part of, the capsule, viz. the ilio-femoral, ischio-femoral, and pectineo-femoral bands. The ilio-femoral (fig. 237) is the longest, widest, and strongest of the bands. It is of triangular shape, with the apex attached above to a curved line on the ilium immediately below and behind the anterior inferior spine, and its base below to the anterior edge of the greater trochanter and to the spiral line as far as the inner border of the shaft. The highest or outermost fibres are coarse, almost straight, and shorter than the rest; the innermost fibres are also thick and strong, but oblique. This Fig. 237.—Anterior View of the Capsule of the Hip-joint. varying obliquity of the fibres, and their accumulation at the borders, explain why this band has been described as the Y-shaped ligament. About the centre of its base, near the femoral attachment, is an aperture transmitting an articular twig from the transverse branch of the external circumflex artery. The ischio-femoral band (fig. 238) is formed of very strong fibres attached all along the upper border of the groove for the external obturator, and to the ischial margin of the acetabulum above the groove. The highest of these incline a little upwards as they pass outwards to be fixed to the greater trochanter in front of the insertion of the pyriformis tendon, while the other fibres curve more and more upwards as they pass outwards to their insertion at the inner side of the digital fossa, blending with the insertion of the external rotator tendons. When the joint is in flexion these fibres pass in nearly straight lines to their femoral attachment, and spread out uniformly over the head of the femur; but in extension they wind