493 INTERNAL MAXILLARY pterygo-palatine; and (6) the naso- or sphenopalatine. All these brandies pass through bony canals. Branches of the First Part of the Internal Maxillary Artery.—(1) The deep auricular (fig. 336) passes upwards in the substance of the parotid gland behind the capsule of the temporo-maxillary joint, and, perforating the bony or cartilagi- nous wall of the external auditory meatus, supplies the skin of that passage and the membrana tympani. It at times gives a branch to the joint as it passes behind the temporo-maxillary capsule. (2) The tympanic branch, or Glaserian artery, is a long slender vessel, which runs upwards behind the condyle of the jaw to the Glaserian fissure, through which it passes to the interior of the tympanum. Here it supplies the lining membrane of that cavity and the laxator tympani muscle, and anastomoses with the other tympanic arteries, forming with the tympanic branch of the stylo-mastoid artery a Fig. 336.—Scheme of Left Internal Maxillary Artery. (Walsham. Infraorbital artery and nerve Sphenopalatine branch Posterior or descending palatine branch Nasopalatine branch Vidian branch inferior deep temporal artery External pterygoid branch Orbital branch Nasal branch Anterior dental branch Labial branch Posterior dental branch Posterior deep temporal artery Small meningeal artery Middle meningeal artery Temporal artery Tympanic branch Deep auricular branch A URICULO-TEM- PORAL NERVE Masseteric branch Incisive branch Mental branch Submental branch External carotid artery Internal lateral or spheuo-mandi bu- lar ligament Mandibular or inferior dental artery and nerve Buccal branch with Internal pterygoid branch | portion of buccal nerve Mylo-hyoidean branch vascular circle around the membrana tympani. This circle is more distinct in the foetus than in the adult. ( 3) The large middle meningeal is the largest branch of the internal maxillary artery. It comes off from that vessel as it lies between the spheno-mandibular liga- ment and the ramus of the jaw, and under cover of the external pterygoid passes directly upwards to the foramen spinosum, through which it enters the interior of the cranium. In this part of its course it is crossed by the chorda tympani nerve; and just before it enters the foramen is embraced by the two heads of origin of the auriculo-temporal nerve (fig. 336). The trunk of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, as the latter emerges through the foramen ovale, lies in front of the artery. As the artery passes upwards it is surrounded by filaments of the sympathetic nerve, and is accompanied by two veins which open into the internal maxillary vein. On entering the skull it ramifies