MOVEMENTS OF JOINTS 179 THE VARIOUS MOVEMENTS OF JOINTS The movements which may take place at a joint are either gliding, angular, rotatory, or circumductory. The gliding motion is the simplest, and is common to all diarthrodial joints: it consists of a simple sliding of the apposed surfaces of the bones upon one another, without angular or rotatory motion. It is the only kind of motion permitted in the carpal and tarsal joints, and in those between the articular processes of the vertebrae. The angular motion is more elaborate, and increases or diminishes the angle between different parts. There are four varieties, viz.: flexion and extension, which bend or straighten the various joints, and take place in a forward and backward direction (in a perfect hinge-joint this is the only motion permitted); and adduction and abduction, which, excej)t in the case of the fingers and toes, signifies an approach to, or deviation from, the centre line of the body. In the case of the hand, the line to or from which adduction and abduction are made is drawn through the middle finger, while in the foot it is through the second toe. Rotation is the revolution of a bone about its own axis without much change of position. It is only seen in enarthrodial and trochoidal joints. The knee also permits of slight rotation in certain positions, which is a distinctive feature of this articulation. Circumduction is the movement compounded of the four angular movements in quick succession, by which the moving bone describes a cone, the proximal end of the bone forming the apex, while the distal end describes the base of the cone. It is seen in the hip and shoulder, as well as in the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb, which thus approximates to the ball-and-socket joint. In some situations where a variety of motion is required, strength, security, and celerity are obtained by the combination of two or more joints, each allowing a different class of action, as in the case of the wrist, the ankle, and the head with the spine. Many of the long muscles, which pass over two or more joints, act on all, so tending to co-ordinate their movements and enabling them to be produced with the least expenditure of power. Muscles also act as elastic ligaments to the joints; and when acting as such, are diffusers and combiners, not producers of movement; the short muscles producing the movement, the long diffusing it, and thus allowing the short muscles to act on more than one joint. Muscles are so disposed at their attachments near the joints as never to strain the ligaments by tending to pull the bones apart, but, on the contrary, they add to the security of the joint by bracing the bones firmly together during their action. The articulations may be divided for convenience of description into those: 1. of the Skull; 2. of the Trunk; 3. of the Upper Limb; and 4. of the Lower Limb. 1. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE SKULL The articulations of the skull comprise (1) the temporo-mandibular; and (2) those between the skull and the spinal column, namely (a) between the occiput and atlas; (6) between the atlas and axis; and (c) the ligaments which connect the occiput and axis. The union of the atlas and axis is described in this section because, firstly, there is often a direct communication between the synovial cavity df the transverse axoidean and the occipito-atlantal joints; secondly, the rotatory movements of the head take place around the odontoid process; and, thirdly, important ligaments from the odontoid process pass over the atlas to the occiput.