684 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM this peculiarity is shared, however (but not so constantly), by the praecentral sulcus and by the vertical part of the intraparietal fissure. It is one of the most important landmarks on the cere- bral surface, as the principal motor centres of the cortex are situated around it. The Lobes of the Cerebral Hemispheres with the Fissures and Convolutions Each cerebral hemisphere is divided into five lobes, viz. the frontal, parietal, occipital, temporo-sphenoidal, and the central lobe or island of Reil. Four of these lobes are visible on the peripheral part of the hemispheres; the fifth, or island of Reil, is deeply placed and is concealed by the operculum. Two other lobes, the limbic and the olfactory lobe, are also described. The FRONTAL LOBE occupies the fore part of the hemisphere and presents three surfaces: a convex supero-external or frontal, an inferior or orbital, and an internal or mesial. The convolutions and fissures on the mesial and tentorial surfaces of the hemisphere will be described separately. The frontal lobe is bounded behind by the fissure of Rolando, and below, for about its posterior half, by the stem and posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius. It is limited internally by the calloso- marginal fissure. The frontal surface is separated from the orbital by a well-marked angle Avhich may be called the orbital margin. This margin is usually destitute of fis- sures, and forms a curve concentric with the orbital arch of the frontal bone. Three fissures on the frontal surface require description: one of these, running in a transverse direction, is termed the prsecentral, the other two, which run parallel to the great longitudinal fissure, are named superior and inferior frontal. The praecentral sulcus is placed in front of and parallel to the fissure of Rolando, and is usually divided by a sagittally-placed convolution into two parts, a superior and an inferior pra3central; the former is usually continuous with the superior frontal fissure. The superior frontal fissure is sometimes discontinuous with the prsecentral. At its orbital end it often passes into a coronally placed, curved fissure, termed the sulcus fronto-marginalis. The latter is situated just above the orbital margin of the frontal lobe. The inferior frontal fissure may be continuous with the jiraecentral, but a narrow gyrus usually separates the two fissures. The convolutions on the frontal surface are four in number: one directed trans- versely to the long axis of the cerebrum, the ascending frontal; and three lying in an antero-posterior direction, named superior, middle, and inferior frontal. The ascending frontal convolution bounds the fissure of Rolando in front, and is placed between that fissure and the prsecentral sulcus. It is connected at the lower end of the fissure of Rolando with the ascending parietal convolution, and passes into the paracentral lobule on the inner face of the hemisphere. The superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions occupy the remainder of the frontal surface, and are marked off by the superior and inferior frontal sulci. They pass forwards, and become continuous with the convolutions on the orbital surface. They are not simple, but are traversed both in a coronal and sagittal direction by tertiary fissures. The superior frontal convolution is continuous behind with the ascending frontal, and passes in front into the gyrus rectus and into the internal and anterior orbital convolutions. It is continuous with the marginal convolution on the inner face of the hemisphere. The middle frontal convolution is continuous behind with the ascending frontal when the superior and inferior pnecentral fissures are discontinuous. It passes in front into the anterior orbital gyrus. It is almost invariably continuous with the superior and inferior frontal convolutions at the orbital margin of the frontal lobe, and is often connected to these convolutions by secondary gyri passing across the superior and inferior frontal fissures. The inferior frontal convolution is continuous behind with the ascending frontal, and joins the external orbital gyrus around the orbital margin. The