1067 THE PERINJEUM PROPER muscle. It is pierced by:—(1) The urethra, about an inch and a quarter below the symphysis; (2) the ducts of Cowper's glands, one on each side of the posterior part of the urethral openings; (3) the arteries of the bulb, somewhat external to the last; (4) the arteries to the corpora cavernosa, more anteriorly and close to the lateral attachment of the ligament; (5) the dorsal arteries and nerves of the penis, at the margins of the ligament near its apex. The dorsal vein with some accom- panying lymphatics runs through the interspace between the triangular and subpubic ligaments (fig. 654). Deep perinaeal interspace (figs. 620, 652, 654).—If the superficial triangular ligament be now detached, the deep perinaeal interspace will be laid open. This space is somewhat wedge-shaped in sagittal section, in consequence of tlie manner in which the two triangular ligaments approach each other before their union at the posterior border of the perinaeal ledge. It is occupied by the folloAving structures:— (1) The membranous urethra, surrounded by its annular sphincter of smooth muscular fibres. (2) Cowper's glands, seen as two white pea-like bodies, one on each side of the posterior segment of the urethra. Their ducts pierce the superficial ligament. Fig. 655.—Vertical Frontal Section of the Pelvis, showing Fasciae. (Modified from Brauue.) UVULA VESICAE PROSTATE VERUMONTANUM Levator ani MEMBRANOUS URETHRA Pudic vessels PUBIC ARCH Fascia of ischio- BULBO-CAVERNOSUS WITH ITS FASCIA Integument ol perinaeum Subperitoneal fat Obturator internus Isehio-rectal fascia OS INNOMINATUM Recto-vesical fascia, parietal and visce- ral layers Obturator fascia Obturator mem- brane ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA Deep triangular lig. Deep trausveraus perina?i Superficial triangu- lar ligament Muscles of thigh Isehio-cavernosus Muscles of thigh (3) The internal pudic arteries, lying close to the ischio-pubic rami imbedded in tbe fibres of origin of the compressor urethral muscle, giving off each an artery to the bulb as well as some twigs to Cowper's gland and to the muscular tissue surrounding the urethra, and terminating by division into the artery of the corpus cavernosum, and the dorsal artery of the penis. These branches with the associated veins have been seen to pass through the superficial triangular ligament into the superficial perinaeal interspace. (4) The pudic veins, accompanying the arteries. Their tributaries form a plexus around the urethra, and in the substance of the fibres of the deep trans- versa perinaei. This plexus, which is often largely developed in old persons, receives the veins of the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa, and commu- nicates freely with the dorsal vein of the penis, and through this with the prostatic plexus. (5) The pudic lymphatics, accompanying the veins and terminating in the pelvic glands. (6) The dorsal nerves of the penis, the terminal branches of the internal