279 THE METATARSOPHALANGEAL 7. THE INTERMETATARSAL ARTICULATIONS Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The bases of the metatarsal bones are firmly held in position by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The first occasionally articulates by means of a distinct facet with the second metatarsal (figs. 183 and 184, Section I). The dorsal ligaments are broad, membranous bands passing between the four outer toes on their dorsal aspect; but in place of one between the first and second metatarsal bones a ligament extends from the internal cuneiform to the base of the second metatarsal bone (page 277). The plantar ligaments are strong, thick, well-marked ligaments which connect the bones on their plantar aspect. The interosseous ligaments are three in number, very strong, and are situated at the points of union of the shaft with the bases of the bones, and fill up the sulci on their sides. They limit the synovial cavities in front of the synovial facets. The common synovial membrane of the tarsus extends between the second and third, and third and fourth bones; that of the cubo-metatarsal joint extending between the fourth and fifth. The arterial and nerve-supply is the same as for the tarso-metatarsal joints. The movements consist merely of gliding, so as to allow the raising or widening of the transverse arch. Considerable flexibility and elasticity are thus given to the anterior part of the foot, enabling it to become moulded to the irregularities of the ground. The Union of the Heads of the Metatarsal Bones The heads of the metatarsal bones are connected on their plantar aspect by the transverse ligament, consisting of four bands of fibres passing transversely from bone to bone, blending with the fibro-cartilaginous or sesamoid plates of the metatarso-phalangeal joints, and the sheaths of the flexor tendons where they are connected with the fibro-cartilages. It differs from the corresponding ligament in the hand by having a band from the first to the second metatarsal bone. 8. THE METATARSO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS (a) The Metatarso-phalangeal Joints of the Four Outer Toes Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Condylarthrosis. These joints are formed by the concave proximal ends of the first phalanges articulating with the rounded heads of the metatarsal bones, and united by the following ligaments:— Two lateral. . Dorsal. Plantar sesamoid plate. The two lateral ligaments are strong bands passing from a ridge on each side of the head of the metatarsal bone to the sides of the proximal end of the first phalanx, and also to the sides of the sesamoid plate which unites the two bones on their plantar surfaces. On the dorsal aspect they are united by the dorsal ligament. The dorsal ligament consists of loose fine fibres of areolo-fibrous tissue, extend- ing between the lateral ligaments, thus completing a capsule. It is connected by fine fibres to the under surface of the extensor tendons, which pass over and considerably strengthen this portion of the capsule. The plantar sesamoid plate helps to deepen the shallow facet of the phalanx for the head of the metatarsal bone, and corresponds to the glenoid ligament of the fingers. It is firmly connected to the lateral ligaments and the transverse liga- ment, and is grooved inferiorly where the flexor tendons pass over it. It serves to prevent dorsal dislocation of the phalanx.