THE SPINE 5 nearly vertical plane of compact tissue projects into the neck of the bone from the inferior cervical tubercle towards the great trochanter. This is placed in the line through which the weight of the body falls, and adds to the stability of the neck of the bone: it is said to be liable to absorption in old age. In the lower end of the bone, the vertical and horizontal fibres are so disposed as to form a rectangular meshwork. The plan of construction exhibited by the femur is the most complex in the skeleton, but the principles involved are the same in all bones. An interesting disposition of these curves is exhibited in the head of the humerus. The pressure curves radiate in two directions: one set at right angles to the articular surface of the head of the bone; the other at right angles to the greater tuberosity. The last set, like those in the greater trochanter, are the result of tension exerted by the muscles attached to these prominences. The shafts < if long bones at the time of birth are mainly cylindrical and free from ridges. The majority of the lines and ridges so conspicuous on the shafts of long bones in adults are due to the ossification of muscle-attachments. The more developed the muscles, the larger the ridges become. The surfaces of bones are variously modified by environing conditions. Pres- sure at the extremities causes enlargement, and movement renders them smooth. The two causes combined produce an articular surface. When r< mnded and sup- ported upon a constricted portion of bone, an articular surface is termed a head, sometimes a condyle ; when depressed, a glenoid fossa. Blunt, non-articular pro- cesses are called tuberosities ; smaller ones, tubercles ; sharp projections, spines. Slightly elevated ridges of bones are crests ; when narrow and pronounced, lines and borders. A shallow depression is a fossa; when narrow and deep, a groove ; a perforation is usually called a foramen. The majority of terms—such as canal, spine, notch, sulcus, and the like—are so obvious as tp render explanation need- less. THE SPINE The spine (vertebral column) consists of thirty-three superimposed bones termed vertebrae. Of these the upper twenty-four remain separate throughout life and form three groups. The first seven are called cervical, the succeeding twelve thoracic (dorsal), and the next five lumbar. In adult life the last nine vertebrae ankylose to form two composite bones named the sacrum and the coccyx. The sacrum is formed by the fusion of five vertebrae from the twenty-fifth to the twenty- ninth inclusive; the four terminal are vestigial, and form the coccyx. In order to gain a general notion of the characters of a vertebra, it is desirable to select a bone from the middle of the thoracic series. A vertebra consists of a body and an arch: The body or centrum is a solid disc of bone slightly concave on its superior and inferior aspects, and wider transversely than antero-posteriorly. The upper and lower surfaces are rough for intervertebral discs, and the margins are slightly lipped. The circumference of the body is, in front, concave vertically, but convex from side to side; posteriorly it is excavated, and presents foramina for the escape of veins from the cancellous tissue. On the sides of the body, at the upper and lower angles, there are four demi-facets; when two vertebra? are superimposed, the adjacent demi-facets form a complete articular facet for the head of a rib. The arch is formed by two pedicles and two lamina^, and has connected with it seven processes—one spinous, two transverse and four articular. The pedicles are two constricted short piers of bone projecting horizontally backwards from the upper angles of the posterior surface. The lower border of each pedicle is deeply notched; hence, when two vertebrae are in position the notches are converted into intervertebral foramina for the transmission of spinal nerves and vessels.