1159 THE FOREARM It will be seen that the anastomotica magna is the artery most largely employed, distributing branches everywhere, save to the front of the external condyle. THE FOREARM Bony landmarks.—The ulna can be easily traced down from the olecranon to the styloid process; the bone becomes somewhat rounded below, and lies between the flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris. The tip of the styloid process corresponds to the inner end of the line of the wrist-joint. The radius is covered above by the brachio-radialis and radial extensors of the carpus, and the outline of the bone is less easily followed. Its styloid process is readily made out below, a finger's breadth above the thenar eminence. It is placed on a slightly lower level than that of the styloid process of the ulna. Thus, a line drawn straight between the two processes would fall a little below that of the wrist-joint, this being shown by a line drawn between the two processes forming a slight curve, with its concavity Fig. 723.—Section through the Middle of the Right Forearm. (Heath.) Brachio-radialie Supinator brevis Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicie Extensor communis digitorum Extensor carpi ulnaris Posterior interosseous vessels and NERVE Flexor sublimis digitorum Plexor carpi ulnaris Ulnar vessels and NERVE Flexor profundus digitorum MEDIAN NER VE Extensor secundi internodii pollieis downwards (corresponding to the concavity of the lower surface of the radius and fibro-cartilage) about half an inch (12 mm.) above the straight line given above. The radial styloid process is covered by the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollieis, while farther out lies that of the extensor secundi. The bones are nearest to each other in complete pronation, and farthest apart in com- plete supination. On section, the bones are found at every point nearer to the back than to the front of the limb, but increasingly so above. ' The lower the section proceeds down the limb, the less will the bones be covered at the sides, and the more equally will the soft parts be distributed about the anterior and posterior aspects of the limb. It will be noticed that where one bone is the most substantial, the other is the more slender, as near the elbow and wrist; and that it is about the centre of the limb that the two are most nearly of equal strength ' (Treves). When the limb is pronated, the interosseous space is narrowed; in supination and the mid- position it is widened out. In pronation, both styloid processes can be distinctly made out; in supination, that of the radius is most distinct, as now the skin and soft parts are stretched and raised over that of the ulna.