TRACHELO-MASTOID—SPIXALIS DORSI 419 Origin.—The back of the transverse processes of the five or six upper thoracic vertebra?, internal to the insertion of the preceding muscle. Insertion.—The posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the second to the sixth cervical vertebrae. 7. TRACHELO-MASTOID The trachelo-mastoid—named from its origin, part of which is in the neck (rpafflXos)) and its insertion upon the mastoid process—is a similar but smaller musculotendinous band. Origin.—(1) The back of the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical vertebrae; (2) the back of the transverse processes of the four or five upper thoracic vertebras. Insertion.—The posterior border of the mastoid process. Structure of the middle division.—The three parts of this division have a close connection with one another, and a long tendinous expansion which covers the inner and back part of the longissimus dorsi, is common to it and the spinalis dorsi. The association of the two upper portions of the division is so close that they are sometimes described together under the name transversalis, the trachelo-mastoid being called the transversalis capitis to distinguish it from that part of the muscle which is inserted into the neck. All the upper elements of this long compound muscle have tendinous origins and insertions. The trachelo-mastoid portion is often found to have a tendinous intersection crossing its fleshy fibres. Nerve-supply.—The external division of the posterior branches of the lower cervical, all the thoracic, and the upper lumbar nerves. Action.—(1) To extend the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine; (2) to flex it laterally; (3) to extend and laterally flex the head, rotating the face to the same side. Relations.—Superficially, it is covered by the latissimus dorsi. trapezius, rhom- boidei, serratus posticus inferior and superior, and the two splenii: upon its inner border lie the spinalis dorsi and complexus. Upon its outer lie the muscles of the outer division and the external divisions of the posterior branches of the spinal nerves. Beneath lie the multifidus spinas and the semispinales dorsi et colli. Inner Division The inner division consists usually of a single muscle, the spinalis dorsi; but sometimes a small muscle, the spinalis colli, continues the series into the neck. 8. SPINALIS DORSI The spinalis dorsi—named from its attachment to the spines in the dorsal region—is a musculotendinous band closely connected below with the aponeurosis on the back of the longissimus dorsi. Origin.—The erector spinas, and especially that part which is attached to the two or three lower thoracic and the upper lumbar spines. Insertion.—The spines of the upper thoracic vertebrae. Structure.—Upon its posterior surface it is covered by a thick aponeurosis, from the upper edge and anterior surface of which fleshy fibres pass almost directly upwards, and are then inserted by means of four to eight tendons into as many of the upper thoracic spines. They are closely blended with the tendons of the semi- spinalis dorsi at their insertion. Nerve-supply.—The posterior branches of the thoracic nerves. Action.—To extend the thoracic spine.