585 BRANCHES OF SUPERFICIAL FEMORAL adductor muscles. They form a series of loops by anastomosing with one another (fig. 373), and with the gluteal, internal circumflex, and sciatic arteries above, and with the muscular and articular branches of the popliteal below. They are distributed chiefly to the hamstring muscles, but send twigs along the external intermuscular septum to supply the integuments at the back and outer parts of the thigh. Other branches perforate the external intermuscular septum and the short head of the biceps, and, entering the crureus and vastus externus, anasto- mose with the descending branch of the external circumflex. All the perforating arteries, moreover, contribute to reinforce the artery of the sciatic nerve, a branch of the sciatic artery. They are each accompanied by two veins which terminate in the profunda. (i) The superior or first perforating is given off from the profunda as that vessel sinks beneath the adductor longus. It either pierces the adductor brevis, or else runs between the pectineus and adductor brevis, and then passes through a small aponeurotic opening in the adductor magnus close to the inner lip of the linea aspera. In this course it supplies branches to the adductors, and, after perforating the adductor magnus, is distributed to the lower part of the gluteus maximus and the hamstring muscles, one branch commonly running upwards beneath the gluteus maximus to anastomose with the external circumflex, internal circumflex, and sciatic arteries, forming the crucial anastomosis at the junction of the neck of the femur with the great trochanter (fig. 373). A second branch descends to anastomose with the ascending branch of the middle perforating. (ii) The middle or second perforating, which is given off from the profunda as it lies behind the adductor longus, pierces the adductor brevis, and then passes through a second aponeurotic opening in the adductor magnus a little below that for the first perforating artery, and also close to the linea aspera. It supplies the hamstring muscles, sends a branch upwards to anastomose with the descending branch of the superior perforating, and another downwards to anastomose in like manner with the ascending branch of the third perforating. It usually supplies the chief nutrient branch to the femur. At times, however, this comes from the third perforating. (iii) The inferior or third perforating also arises from the profunda as it lies under the adductor longus, usually about the level of the lower border of the adductor brevis. It turns beneath this border, and then, like the first and second perforating, passes through an aponeurotic opening in the adductor magnus close to the linea aspera. It also supplies the hamstring muscles, and divides into two branches, which anastomose above with the second j)erforating, and below with the termination of the profunda or the fourth perforating. (iv) The fourth perforating is the continuation of the profunda. It passes through an aponeurotic opening in the adductor magnus just above the opening for the femoral artery. It anastomoses, above with the third perforating, and below with the superior muscular and articular branches of the popliteal. It supplies chiefly the short head of the biceps. B. Branches of the Superficial Femoral in Scarpa1 s Triangle The branches given off by the superficial femoral in Scarpa's triangle are usually small and insignificant. They are:—(1) Muscular, to the sartorius and rectus; and (2) saphenous, to the region of the long saphenous vein and femoral lymphatics in the neighbourhood of the vein. C. Branches of the Superficial Femoral in Hunter's Canal The branches in Hunter's canal are:—(1) Muscular;,and (2) the anastomotica magna. (1) The muscular branches supply the sartorius, the rectus, the vastus interims, the crureus, and the adductor muscles. They are usually larger than the muscular branches given off in Scarpa's triangle. (2) The anastomotica magna arises from the front and inner side of the