466 THE ARTERIES lung, where it divides into a larger upper branch, which supplies the upper lobe and gives off a descending branch to the middle or third lobe, and into a smaller inferior branch for the supply of the inferior lobe. These branches follow the course of the bronchi, dividing and subdividing for the supply of the lobules of the lung. The terminal branches do not anastomose with each other. Relations.—In its course to the lung it has in front of it (fig. 319) the ascending aorta, the vena cava superior, the phrenic nerve, the anterior pulmonary plexus, and the reflexion of the pleura. Behind are the right bronchus and the termination of the vena azygos major. Above is the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, and below are the left auricle and the upper right pulmonary vein. At the root of the lung it has the right bronchus above and behind it; the pulmonary veins below and in front. Crossing in front of it and the ot^aer struc- ture forming the root- of the lung are the phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonary plexus; behind are the vena azygos major, the pneumogastric nerve, and the posterior pulmonary plexus (fig. 324). THE LEFT PULMONARY ARTERY The left pulmonary artery, shorter and slightly smaller than the right, passes in front of the descending aorta to the root of the left lung, where it divides into two branches for the supply of the upper and lower lobes respectively. These divide and subdivide as on the right side (fig. 319). Relations.—At the root of the lung it has the left bronchus behind and also below it in consequence of the more vertical direction taken by the left bronchus than by the right. Below and in front are the pulmonary veins, while between the artery and the upper left pulmonary vein the vestigial fold of Marshall is to be seen. Crossing in front of it and the other structures forming the root of the lung are the phrenic nerve, the anterior pulmonary plexus, and the reflexion of the left pleura; crossing behind, are the descending aorta, the left pneumogastric nerve, and the posterior pulmonary plexus (fig. 324). THE SYSTEMIC ARTERIES THE AORTA The aorta is the main systemic arterial trunk, and from it all the systemic arteries are derived. It begins at the left ventricle of the heart, and, after running a short distance upwards and to the right, turns backwards and to the left, and then downwards, forming the arch of the aorta. It is thence continued through the thorax as the thoracic aorta, and finally enters the abdomen at the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and, passing through the abdominal cavity under the name of the abdominal aorta, terminates opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra in the right and left common iliac arteries. From the point of bifurcation a small vessel is continued down the middle line in front of the sacrum and coccyx, and ends in the coccygeal glomerulus. This vessel (known as the middle sacral) is usually regarded, morphologically, as the sacral and coccygeal aorta ; while the coccygeal glomerulus is believed to represent the rudiments of the caudal aorta, with probably a persistent part of the post-anal gut.