OBTURATOR INTERNUS AND GEMELLI 357 by a special nerve which, after passing through the lesser sacro-sciatic notch, is distributed to the muscle, entering its inner surface near its upper border and close to the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The gemellus superior—named from gemellus = a twin, because it is the upper of the two twin muscles which nearly surround the tendon of the obturator interims at its point of emergence from the pelvis—is a somewhat triangular sheet curved upon itself to embrace the rounded tendon of the obturator interims. Origin.—(1) The outer surface of the spine of the ischium; (2) the upper half of the outer edge of the lesser sacro-sciatic notch. Insertion.—The upper border and the anterior surface of the obturator internus tendon, a short distance from its insertion. Structure.—Arising fleshy from the bone at the margin of the lesser sacro- sciatic foramen, the muscular fibres converge slightly and form a sheet which is curved upon itself so as to fit round the upper border and anterior aspect of the obturator internus tendon, with which, after a course of about two inches (5 cm.) in length, it blends. Nerve-supply.—The first and second nerves of the sacral plexus by a small special branch which enters the muscle at the upper part of its anterior surface near its origin. The gemellus inferior—the lower of these twin muscles—is also triangular in shape, but is somewhat broader and stouter than its fellow. Origin.—(1) The upper part of the inner border of the tuber ischii; and (2) the lower half of the outer edge of the lesser sacro-sciatic notch. Insertion.—The lower border and anterior surface of the tendon of the obturator internus, a short distance from its attachment to the greater trochanter. Structure.—Its fibres, arising fleshy from the lower half of the outer border of the lesser sacro-sciatic notch, converge and form a sheet which wraps round the lower part of the anterior surface of the tendon of the obturator internus. The two gemelli therefore together form an envelope which embraces the whole of the tendon of the obturator internus after its emergence from the pelvis, with the exception of a part of its posterior surface. Nerve-supply.—From the sacral plexus (through the fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves), by filaments from the special nerve to this muscle and the quadratus femoris, which enter the upper part of its anterior surface near its origin. Action.—The obturator internus with its two satellites, the gemelli, powerfully i"otates the femur outwards. It should be observed that, although the fibres are mostly directed backwards and downwards within the pelvis, the action of the muscle is really determined by the outward and slightly forward direction of the tendon outside the pelvis; and the notch upon the bone plays the part of a pulley in changing the direction of the force. Besides its action as an external rotator, the muscle will be able to assist abduc- tion when the thigh is bent through a right angle. Relations.—The obturator internus in the pelvis is in contact externally with the innominate bone and obturator membrane; above, with the obturator artery and nerve; internally, with the pelvic and obturator fascia;, the levator ani, the pelvic viscera, and the pudic vessels and nerve. Outside the pelvis, the tendon of the obturator internus, with the gemelli, is in contact, in front with the capsule of the hip-joint and the tendon of the obturator externus; behind, with the gluteus maximus, great sacro-sciatic ligament, the sciatic vessels and nerves; above, with the pyriformis and the structures which come out of the pelvis below it; below, with the quadratus femoris and a branch of the internal circumflex artery. Variations.—One or other of the gemelli may be absent, but more frequently the upper one. An accessory slip to the obturator internus has been observed coming from the third piece of the sacrum.