DEVELOPMENT OF GENITO- URINAR Y ORGANS 1057 The Miillerian duct begins as a slender cord lying parallel to, and on the outer side of, the Wolffian duct. It becomes canalized and opens distally into the cloaca. After a time it fuses with its fellow mesially a short distance above the terminal aperture, and the conjoint tube is bound together with the adjacent Wolffian ducts into a kind of stem called the genital cord. In the male the Miillerian duct never appears to discharge any function, and its useless relics are to be traced in the sinus pocularis and hydatid of Morgagni; but in the female it gives rise to nearly the whole of the internal apparatus of generation ; its upper extremity, above the line of fusion in the human subject, forming the oviduct and its hydatid appendage, the conjoint tube develop- ing the uterus and vagina. Variations in the point of fusion of the two ducts may lead to the abnormality of a two-horned uterus, or even a double uterus and vagina. Exceptionally Miiller's duct may form a rudimentary uterus in the male. In such cases the testes are well developed, but the penis remains very small. Fig. 646.—Development of the Ukino-generative Organs, Male Type. (After Henle.) The external genitals are developed about the cloacal outlet common to the genito-urinary and intestinal canals. The first change is the appearance of a genital eminence, the future clitoris or penis, at the ventral extremity of the cloacal fissure about the fifth or sixth week. A fortnight later the cloaca is divided by a transverse septum into two parts, a dorsal or anal, and a ventrat or uro-genital (uro-genital sinus); the septum itself persisting as the perineal body in the female, and the portion of the perinneum lying between the scrotum and anus in the male. Its absence or incomplete development accounts for certain congenital malformations well known to teratolo- gists. The uro-genital sinus next undergoes changes which give the external stamp of sex. At first the urethra opens into the sinus behind the genital prominence. In the female this remains permanent, the lips of the sinus expand into the labia majora ; two ridges within the sinus, ex- tending one on each side as high as the genital prominence, form the nymphae ; and a little semi- lunar fold at the entrance of the vagina shows itself in the fifth month and becomes the hymen ; 67