468 THE ARTERIES portion is the ventral aorta; the descending portion, part of the left dorsal aorta; and the transverse portion, the fourth left aortic arch. Each portion requires a separate description. The Ascending Portion of the Arch of the Aorta The ascending portion or ventral aorta ascends behind the sternum from the upper part of the left ventricle of the heart, on a level with the lower border of the third left costal cartilage, to the upper border of the second right costal carti- lage at the junction of these cartilages with the sternum. It measures from two to two and a quarter inches (5"5 cm.), forming, as it ascends, a gentle curve, the most prominent part of which, when the aorta is distended, is situated about a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) from the sternum. It is enclosed for the greater Fig. 322.—Scheme of the Relations of the First Portion of the Arch of the Aorta. (Walsh am.) I, at origin ; II, a little higher up. I PERICARDIUM RIGHT AURICLE RIGHT AURICULAR APPENDIX RIGHT BRONCHUS Riglit pulmonary artery Vena cava superior PERICARDIUM RIGHT PLEURA RIGHT LUNG part of its length in the pericardium, being invested, together with the pulmonary artery, in a common sheath formed by the serous layer of that membrane. A dilatation known as the great sinus of the arch of the aorta is often present along the right side. Immediately above the heart the aorta presents three bulg- ings, known as the sinuses of Valsalva; they are placed, two anteriorly, and one posteriorly. From the anterior are derived the coronary arteries of the heart. (See Heart. ) Relations.—In front (fig. 322), it is overlapped at its commencement by the right auricular appendix and the pulmonary artery. Higher up, as the pulmonary artery and auricular appendix diverge, it is separated from the manubrium by the pericardium, the remains of the thymus gland, and by the loose tissue and fat in the superior mediastinum, and is here slightly overlapped by the right pleura and by the edge of the right lung in full inspiration. The commencement of the coro- nary arteries is also in front.