FACIAL 487 over the curved upper margin of the superior constrictor to the soft palate, where it is distributed to the tissues constituting that structure, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side and with the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary, and the ascending pharyngeal, which vessel often to a great extent supplies the place of this artery. The other branch, the tonsillar, supplies the tonsil and the Eustachian tube, anastomosing with the tonsillar branch of the facial and ascending pharyngeal arteries. The ascending palatine artery supplies the muscles between which it runs on its way to the palate. (2) The tonsillar branch (fig. 334) ascends between the stylo-glossus and internal pterygoid muscles to the level of the tonsil, where it perforates the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and ends in the tonsil, anastomosing with the tonsillar branch of the ascending palatine and with the other tonsillar arteries (fig. 333). It gives branches also to the root of the tongue. (3) The glandular or submaxillary branches are distributed to the submax- illary gland as the artery is passing through or beneath that structure. A small twig from one of these branches usually supplies Wharton's duct. (4) The muscular branches are small twigs given off irregularly to the con- tiguous muscles, viz. the posterior belly of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid, the stylo- glossus, and the mylo-hyoid muscles. (5) The submental branch (fig. 334) comes off from the facial as the latter vessel lies under cover of the submaxillary gland, and, passing forwards on the mylo-hyoid muscle between the base of the jaw and the anterior belly of the digas- tricus, supplies these structures and the overlying platysma and integuments. It gives off the following small branches:—(a) muscular, to the muscles between which it runs; (b) perforating, which passes through the mylo-hyoid to anasto- mose with the sublingual; (c) cutaneous, to the integuments covering it; (rf) mental, which turns over the border of the lower jaw near the symphysis, and, after supplying a branch to the depressor labii inferioris, the levator menti, and the other adjacent soft tissues forming the chin and lip, anastomoses with the mental branch of the inferior dental, the inferior labial, and the artery of the opposite side. Branches of the Facial Artery on the Face From the outer or concave side of the artery are given off:—(1) masseteric branches which ascend over the masseter to anastomose with the masseteric branch of the internal maxillary artery and the transverse facial artery; and (2) buccal, which pass upwards over the buccinator and anastomose with the buccal branch of the internal maxillary, the transverse facial, and the infraorbital arteries. From the inner or convex side the following larger and named vessels are given off:—(1) The inferior labial; (2) the inferior coronary; (3) the superior coronary; (4) the lateralis nasi; and (5) the angular. (1) The inferior labial artery arises either separately from the facial artery, or in common with the next branch—the inferior coronary. It courses forwards beneath the depressor anguli oris, arid over the depressor labii inferioris, and, after supplying the contiguous muscles and integuments, anastomoses below with the submental, above with the inferior coronary, and between the two with the mental branch of the inferior dental which escapes from the mental foramen. (2) The inferior coronary artery arising from the facial a little above the inferior labial, or in common with it, passes forwards beneath the depressor anguli oris towards the angle of the mouth, thence skirts along the lower lip, between the mucous ftiembrane and orbicularis oris, about a quarter to half an inch from the junction of the skin and mucous membrane, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. It can readily be felt beating during life by pressing the lip between finger and thumb. It gives off descending branches which anastomose with the inferior labial and the mental branch of the inferior dental (or mandi- bular) artery. (3) The superior coronary artery, arising from the facial a little higher than the inferior coronary, passes forwards beneath the zygomaticus major, and then, like the inferior coronary, courses tortuously along the lower margin of the upper lip between the orbicularis oris and the mucous membrane about half an inch