1150 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY great tuberosity looks outwards, the head inwards, and the lesser tuberosity some- what forwards. Between the two tuberosities runs the bicipital groove, which, with the arm in the above position, looks directly forwards. In thin subjects its lower part can be defined. Besides the tendon and its synovial sheath, the inser- tion of the latissimus dorsi, the humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery, and the anterior circumflex artery run in the groove. When the fingers are placed on the acromion, and the thumb in the axilla, the lower edge of the glenoid cavity can be felt; and if the humerus be rotated (the elbow-joint being flexed), the head of the humerus can be felt also. The characteristic roundness of the shoulder is due to the deltoid, supported by the head of the humerus and the tuberosities (fig. 715). Close to the clavicle, between the contiguous origins of the peetoralis major and deltoid, is the infra- clavicular fossa, in which lie the cephalic vein and the humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery. On pressing deeply here, the coracoid process can be made out if the muscles are relaxed and the axillary artery compressed against the second rib. On raising the arm and abducting it, the different parts of the deltoid can often be made out—viz. fibres from the lower border of the spine of the scapula, the outer edge of the acromion, and the outer third or more of the front of the clavicle; the characteristic knitting of the surface owing to the presence of muscular bundles, separated by depressions caused by the tendinous septa, will also be seen. The muscle will be marked out by a base-line reaching along the above bony points, and two sides converging from its extremities to the apex, a point on the outer surface of the humerus, about its centre. To map out the peetoralis major, a line should be drawn down the lateral aspect of the sternum as far as the sixth costal cartilage, and then two others marking the borders of the muscle—the upper corresponding to the deltoid, the lower starting from the sixth cartilage, and the two converging to the folded tendon, which is inserted as a double layer into the outer bicipital ridge. The peetoralis minor will be marked out by two lines, from the upper border of the third and the lower border of the fifth rib, just external to their cartilages, and meeting at the coracoid process. The lower line gives the level of the long thoracic artery; the upper, where it meets the line of the axillary artery, that of the acromio-thoracic. When the arm is abducted and the humerus rotated a little outwards, the promi- nence of a well-developed coraco-brachialis comes into view; a line drawn from the centre of the clavicle along the inner border of this muscle to its insertion into the humerus gives the line of the axillary artery. The depression of the axilla is best marked when the arm is raised from the