THE LIVER 983 Winslow. At the actual fissure the order of the three structures from before back- wards is—duct, artery, vein. The hepatic veins, by which the blood of the liver passes into the inferior vena cava, open by several large and small openings into that vessel at the posterior surface of the gland at the bottom of the fossa of the vena cava. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics are divided into a deep and a superficial set. The deep set run with the branches of the portal vein, artery, and duct through the liver, leaving at the transverse fissure, where they join the vessels of the super- ficial set. The superficial set begin in the subperitoneal tissue. Those of the upper surface consist:—(1) Of vessels which pass up, principally, in the broad ligament and right and left lateral ligaments, through the diaphragm, and so into the anterior mediastinal glands; occasionally lymphatics of the rigbt ligament pass straight into the thoracic duct. (2) Of a set passing over the anterior border of the liver to the glands in the small omentum about the transverse fissure. On the under surface, the lymphatics to the right of the gall bladder enter the lumbar glands. Those round the gall bladder enter the glands of the lesser omentum. Those to the left of the gall bladder enter the glands of the oesophagus and lesser curvature of the stomach. Fig. 584.—Relation of Structures at and below the Transverse Fissure. (Thane.) GALL BLADDER BILE DUCT Hepatic artery Portal vein Structure of the liver.—If a section be made of the liver, the following features in its general structure may be noted:— Outside of all will be seen the investment of peritoneum, which is incomplete in parts, and which has been already described. Within this a thin fibrous coat will be observed to invest the entire gland. At the transverse fissure this coat turns into the substance of the liver with the branches of the portal vein. Glisson's capsule.—The capsule is in all parts closely adherent to the gland- substance, and is thickest where the peritoneum is absent. The liver on section is seen to be mottled, and when a portion is torn the surface presents a granular appearance. This is produced by the minute lobules (one twenty-fourth to one-twelfth of an inch in diameter) of which the liver tissue is composed. The cut surface will also exhibit the openings of a number of canals. A slight examination will show that these are of two kinds—viz. the canals for the branches of the portal vein and the canals for the hepatic veins. In the portal canals the vein is accompanied by a branch of the duct and a branch of the hepatic artery. The vein has thick walls which will be seen to be more or less collapsed on section. The vessels in the canal are separated from the liver substance by much connective tissue (Glisson's capsule, fig. 585). In the hepatic canals the veins are solitary, their walls are exceedingly thin, and their mouths open and gaping. The wall of the vein is directly adherent to the liver substance, no connective tissue capsule intervening. The gall bladder, which retains the bile, is situated between the right and