STERNO-HYOID—OMO-HYOID 447 THE INFRA-HYOID MUSCLES The infra-hyoid muscles form a group of four long flat muscles, arranged in two layers, and enveloped by the deep layer of the cervical fascia. Superficial Layer This consists of two muscles—the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid. 1. STERNO-HYOID The sterno-hyoid (figs. 301 and 314)—named from its two attachments—is long and ribbon-shaped. Origin.—(1) The back of the manubrium (presternum) just internal to the notches for the clavicle and first rib; (2) the back of the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament; (3) the back of the inner end of the clavicle external to the facet for the first costal cartilage. Insertion.—The lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the middle line. Structure.—It arises fleshy, and forms a band of parallel fibres, which approach the middle line as they ascend, and are inserted by a short tendon. Nerve-supply.—From the first three cervical nerves through the descendens and communicantes hypoglossi, which send filaments to its deep surface near its upper end. Action.—To draw down the body of the hyoid bone, e.g. after it has been raised in swallowing; also to fix it when the muscles which pass upwards from it- are depressing the tongue, as in suction. Relations.—Superficially, the deep cervical fascia, sterno-mastoid, sterno- clavicular joint, anterior jugular vein; deeply, the sterno-thyroid, crico-thyroid, thyroid and cricoid cartilages, the trachea, thyroid isthmus, and the inferior thyroid vein. Variations.—The sterno-hyoid may arise from the clavicle alone, and occasionally even from the middle of that bone. It may be absent or double. A tendinous intersection sometimes crosses it. 2. OMO-HYOID The omo-hyoid (w/io? = shoulder)—named from its attachment to the shoulder- blade and the hyoid bone—is ribbon-shaped with a tendinous constriction in the middle which divides it into two fleshy bellies. Origin.—(1) The upper border of the scapula for about an inch (2-5 cm.) behind the suprascapular notch; (2) occasionally, the upper border of the trans- verse ligament which crosses the notch. Insertion.—The lower border of the body of the hyoid bone just external to the preceding muscle, which it also slightly overlaps. Structure.—Arising fleshy and broad, the muscle contracts slightly as it passes forwards, and a little upwards, across the posterior triangle of the neck above the clavicle. Beneath the sterno-mastoid, and over the great vessels of the neck, it becomes tendinous for a short distance; and then, changing its direction, it again expands to a fleshy band which runs upwards and slightly forwards and inwards to its insertion, which is by short tendinous, intermingled with fleshy, fibres. An obtuse angle is formed between the two bellies, the lower portion of the muscle and its tendon being held down by a strong process of the deep layer of the cervical fascia, which, forming a loop around them, passes downwards to be attached to the posterior surface of the clavicle and to the first rib. Nerve-supply.—The anterior belly is supplied by a branch from the descendens hypoglossi, which enters the back of its deep surface, while the posterior receives