A RA CHS 0 ID—PI A MA TER 677 Retzius) are at the extremities of the recessus laterales of the fourth ventricle, behind the upper roots of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Another large space, the cisterna pontis, is continued from the anterior subarachnoid space of the cord, and extends forwards as far as the commencement of the great longitudinal fissure, and laterally to the inner margins of the temporo-sphenoidal lobes. The basilar artery and the circle of Willis are placed in this space. The cisterna pontis communicates freelv around the medulla oblongata with the cisterna magna—thus the medulla is encircled by a wide subarachnoid space. A large space is also to be found between the lower edge of the falx cerebri (where the arachnoid passes across from one cerebral hemisphere to the other) and the upper surface of the corpus callosum. This space contains the trunks and larger branches of the anterior cerebral arteries. Another considerable space Fig. 407.—Ceaxial Nerves ix the Base of the Skull. (On the left side the dura mater has been removed in the middle Ibssa.) Meningeal branch of anterior ethmoidal artery Meningeal branch of pos- terior ethmoidal artery Middle meningeal artery OPHTHALMIC DIVISION OF FIFTH NER VE THIRD NEB VE Cavernous sinus FOURTH NERVE A I'D I TOR Y A ND FACIAL NERVES Superior petrosal sinus In/eri/jr petrosal sinus Petro-sauamous sinus SPINAL ACCES- SORY NERVE Sigmoid portion of lateral sinus Posterior meningeal branch of vertebral artery L*fl marginal sinus Left lateral sinus Superior longitudinal sinus -J.— Circular sinus —\— Carotid artery SIXTH NERVE Basilar artery Basilar plexus of rein s Auditory artery Vertebral artery I GLOSSO-PHAKTSGEAL j AKV PNEUMOGASTRK s—j— Anterior epijiaf artery [X. " ' HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE SPINAL ACCES- SORY NERVE Rigid marginal sinus Occipital sinus Right lateral sinus exists in the fissure of Sylvius, and in this the middle cerebral artery ramifies. Thus, with the exception of the cisterna magna, all these spaces serve for the accommodation of large arteries. There is also a space between the corpora quadri- gemina and the anterior extremity of the superior vermiform process of the cere- bellum, and through this the veins of Galen pass to terminate in the straight sinus. The pia MATER is a delicate vascular membrane which closely invests the nervous substance. It follows accurately the contour of the surface of the brain, dipping into all the fissures of the cerebrum and cerebellum—in the smaller sulci of the latter, however, a double layer cannot be distinctly made out. Processes or folds of this membrane project into some of the ventricles of the brain, and are separated from the ventricular cavities only by a layer of epithelium. These folds form the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses, which will be described