438 THE MUSCLES strained painful expression to the features, such as is seen in tetanus, and called the ' risus sardonicus.' Relations.—Superficially, the skin and subcutaneous fat; deeply, the masseter and buccinator, the facial artery and vein, and branches of the facial nerve. 4. DEPRESSOR ANGULI ORIS The depressor anguli oris—named from its action upon the corner of the mouth—is a triangular sheet, and belongs to the superficial layer of facial muscles. Origin.—The outer aspect of the lower border of the body of the mandible and the external oblique line below the canine, bicuspid, and first molar teeth. Insertion.—The subcutaneous connective tissue, and the muscular mass ex- ternal to the corner of the mouth. Structure.—Its fibres, arising fleshy, converge upwards and inwards, and, having diminished to a narrow band, join the general muscular mass at the corner of the mouth, some of them being continued upwards into the levator anguli oris, and the most external into the zygomaticus major. The fibres which form the inner border of the muscle are often continued downwards below the mandible, and form with those of the other side a band, partly muscular and partly fibrous, which, lying beneath the platysma myoides, supports and compresses the subcutaneous fat below and behind the prominence of the chin. When there is much subcutaneous fat, the absence of this support gives rise to a considerable prominence behind this band, producing the so-called ' double chin.' Nerve-supply.—The supramandibular branch of the lower division of the facial nerve, which sends filaments to the back part of its deep surface. Action.—To draw downwards and somewhat outwards the angle of the mouth, giving an expression of sorrow to the face, and making the individual look ' down in the mouth.' Relations.—The skin superficially; and deeply, the depressor labii inferioris and inferior coronary artery. Labial Group of Muscles Tlie labial group consists of three muscles which pass downwards from the maxilla, and form a continuous sheet which might fairly be included under one name; and a fourth muscle which passes upwards from the mandible. All the muscles are inserted into the lips, and especially into that part of them which inter- venes between the middle line and a point half way between this and the corner of the mouth. The upper set is formed by the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the levator labii superioris, and the zygomaticus minor; the lower muscle is the depressor labii inferioris. 1. LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL,EQUE NASI The levator labii superioris alseque nasi—named from its action as an elevator of the upper lip and the nostril—is a somewhat triangular sheet, bifur- cating below at the base which corresponds to the insertion of the muscle. It belongs to the superficial layer of facial muscles. Origin.—The anterior half of the outer surface of the nasal process of the maxilla, Insertion.—(1) The deep surface of the skin which covers the lower part of the ala nasi; (2) the deep surface of the skin and the general muscular mass, of the inner half of the upper lip. Structure.—Arising fleshy, its fibres diverge somewhat as they pass down- wards; they then decussate with those of the orbicularis oris close to the prolabium.