PER ONE US BRE VIS 393 tendon in the sole, and where the tendon enters this canal it often contains a sesamoid hone which plays upon the front of the ridge of the cuboid bone. Nerve-supply.—From the musculocutaneous branch of the external popliteal nerve by filaments which enter the deep and posterior aspect of the muscle in its upper third. Action.—(1) To extend the ankle-joint; (2) to abduct the anterior part of the foot; (3) to depress the inner border of the foot, and so to evert the sole; (4) by drawing backwards and outwards the base of the first metatarsal bone, it tends to render more concave the antero-posterior and transverse arches of the foot. In the former action it assists the tibialis posticus and flexor longus hallucis. In walking, it will act with the gastrocnemius and soleus in lifting the heel from the ground, and its tendency to evert the sole and abduct the foot will counteract the opposite tendency of the muscles attached to the tendo Achillis. Moreover, the tendency of this latter set of muscles is to press the outer part of the ball of the toes firmly upon the ground. On the other hand, the influence of the peroneus longus in extending the foot is especially exerted upon the ball of the great toe. By the combined action of all these extensors of the ankle the whole of the ball of the foot is pressed evenly upon the ground and firmness of tread secured. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia, the external annular ligament; and in the sole, the abductor minimi digiti, the adductor hallucis, and long plantar ligament; in front, the peroneus brevis, the extensor longus digitorum, and the mu'sculo-cutaneous nerve; behind, the soleus and flexor longus hallucis; deeply, the external popliteal nerve which occupies a fibrous canal below the head of the fibula, the ankle-joint, calcaneum, cuboid, and the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. Variations.—Sometimes a second peroneus arises between the peroneus longus and brevis, and sends its tendon to join that of the peroneus longus. A slip may be given to the external annular ligament. The insertion of the muscle may extend to the bases of the adjacent meta- tarsal bones. 2. PERONEUS BREVIS The peroneus brevis (figs. 292 and 298)—named from its being the shorter of the two fibular muscles—is also a triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The lower two-thirds of the outer (or peroneal) surface of the fibula; (2) the deep fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septa in front and behind. Insertion.—(1) The outer part of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; (2) the outer border of the expansion of the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum upon the first phalanx of the little toe. Structure.—This is also a penniform muscle. The short fibres pass obliquely downwards to the tendon which lies upon the outer surface of the muscle. It becomes free from fleshy fibres just above the external malleolus where it passes beneath the external annular ligament in the same sheath with the peroneus longus tendon, and after changing its direction, runs forwards and somewhat downwards upon the outer surface of the calcaneum and above the peroneal tubercle. Nerve-supply.—The musculocutaneous branch of the popliteal nerve by fila- ments which enter the deep aspect of the muscle about the middle of the" leg. Action.—(1) Slightly to extend the ankle; (2) to abduct the anterior part of the foot; (3) slightly to elevate the outer border of the foot, and so evert the sole. Relations.—Superficially, the peroneus longus, deep fascia of the leg and external annular ligament; in front, the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius; behind, the peroneus longus and flexor longus hallucis; deeply, the ankle- joint, calcaneum, and cuboid bones. Variations.—The small slip which the tendon sends on to the expansion upon the little toe may be wanting, or it may be inserted into the first or even the second phalanx. This slip may be entirely separate, so as to form a fourth peroneus.