THE ARTICULATIONS 280 The second metatarsophalangeal joint is a quarter of an inch in front of both the first and third metatarso-phalangeal joints. The third metatarso-phalangeal joint is a quarter of an inch in front of the fourth, and the fourth three-eighths of an inch in front of the fifth. The head of the fifth metatarsal is in line with the neck of the fourth. Thus the outer side of the longitudinal arch of the foot is shorter than the inner; it is also distinctly shallower. (b) The Metatarso-phalangeal Joints of the Great Toe The metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe differs from the rest in the following particulars:— (1) The bones are on a larger scale, and the articular surfaces are more extensive. (2) There are two grooves on the plantar surface of the metatarsal bone, one on each side of the median line, for the sesamoid bones. (3) The sesamoid bones replace the fibro-cartilaginous or sesamoid plate. They are two small hemispherical bones developed in the tendons of the flexor brevis hallucis, convex below, but flat above where they play in grooves on the head of the metatarsal bone; they are united by a strong transverse ligamentous band, which is smooth below and forms part of the channel along which the long flexor tendon plays. They are firmly united to the base of the phalanx by strong short fibres, but to the metatarsal bone they are joined by somewhat looser fibres. Laterally they are connected with the lateral ligaments and the sheath of the flexor tendons. They provide shifting leverage for the flexor brevis hallucis as well as for the flexor long us hallucis. The arteries come from the digital and interosseous branches; and the nerves from the cutaneous digital, or from small twigs of the nerves to the interossei muscles. The movements permitted are: flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, and circumduction. Flexion is more free than extension, and is limited by the extensor tendons and dorsal ligaments; extension is limited by the flexor tendons, the plantar fibres of the lateral ligaments, and the sesamoid plates. The lateral motion is possible from the shape of the bony surfaces, but is very limited, being most marked in the great toe. It is limited by the lateral ligaments and sesamoid plates. 9. THE INTERPHALANGEAL JOINTS Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. The articulations between the first and second, and second and third phalanges of the toes are similar to those of the fingers, with this important difference, that the bones are smaller and the joints, especially between the second and third phalanges, are often ankylosed. The ligaments which unite them are:— Two lateral. Dorsal. Glenoid ligament. The two lateral ligaments are well marked, and pass on each side of the joints from a little rough depression on the head of the proximal, to a rough border on the side of the base of the distal phalanx of the joint. The dorsal ligament is thin and membranous, and extends across the joint from one lateral ligament to the other beneath the extensor tendon, with the deep surface of which it is connected, and by which it is strengthened. The glenoid ligament covers in the joint on the plantar surface. It is a fibro- cartilaginous plate, connected at the sides with the lateral ligaments, and with the bones by short ligamentous fibres; the plantar surface is smooth, and grooved for the flexor tendons. The arteries and nerves are derived from the corresponding digital branches. The only movements permitted at these joints are flexion and extension.