216 THE ARTICULATIONS where the bulkiest part of the lung is enclosed. This is on a level with the sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs. At the lower part of the thorax, where the ribs have no relation to the lungs, and do not affect respiration directly by their movements, it is important that the costal arches should be thrown well outwards in order to counteract the compression of the abdominal viscera by the contraction of the diaphragm. By widening and steadying the lower part of the thorax during inspiration, the attachments of the muscular fibres of the diaphragm are widened, and their power increased. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The articulations of the upper extremity are the following:— 1. The sterno-costo-clavicular. 2. The scapuloclavicular union. 3. The shoulder-joint. 4. The elbow-joint. 5. The radio-ulnar union. 6. The radio-carpal or wrist-joint. 7. The carpal joints. 8. The carpo-metacarpal joints. 9. The intermetacarpal joints. 10. The metacarpo-phalangeal joints. 11. The interphalangeal joints. 1. THE STERNO-COSTO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION Class.—Dlarthrosis. Subdivision.—Saddle-shaped Arthrodia. At this joint the large inner end of the clavicle is united to the superior angle of the manubrium sterni, the first costal cartilage also assisting to support the clavicle. It is the only joint between the upper extremity and the trunk, and takes part in all the movements of the upper limb. Looking at the bones, one would say that they were in no way adapted to articulate with one another, and yet they assist in constructing a joint of great security, strength, and importance. The bones are nowhere in actual contact, being completely separated by an inter- articular cartilage. The interval between the joints of the two sides varies from one inch to an inch and a half (2*5-4 cm.). The ligaments of this joint are:— (1) Capsular. (3) Interarticular fibro-cartilage. (2) Interclavicular. (4) Rhomboid or costo-clavicular. The capsular ligament (figs. 219 and 220) consists of fibres, having varying directions and being of various strength and thickness, which completely surround the articulation, and are firmly connected with the edges of the interarticular fibro- cartilage. The fibres at the back of the joint, sometimes styled the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, are stronger than those in front or below, and consist of two sets: a superficial, passing upwards and outwards from the manubrium sterni, to the projecting posterior edge of the inner end of the clavicle, a few being prolonged onwards upon the posterior surface of the bone. A deeper set of fibres, especially thick and numerous below the clavicle, connect the interarticular cartilage with the clavicle and with the sternum, but do not extend from one bone