1103 THE NECK right, and does not rise so high into the neck. The subclavian vein lies at a lower level and under cover of the clavicle. Into the above curve rise the pleura and lung. The suprascapular and transverse cervical vessels run outwards, parallel with the clavicle. The former lies behind the bone and subclavius; the latter also runs transversely outwards, across the root of the neck, but on a slightly higher plane, and thus a little above the clavicle. Crossing the sterno-mastoid a little obliquely, in a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the centre of the clavicle, runs the external jugular vein. About an inch and a half above the clavicle it perforates the deep cervical fascia, its coats being blended with the opening. The dilated part between this point and the subclavian vein is called the sinus, and is marked by two valves, neither of which is usually perfect. Just above the clavicle the posterior and suprascapular, trans- verse cervical, and a branch from the cephalic veins, form a plexus over the third part of the subclavian. Opening into the external jugular, in the middle or lower third of its course, is Fig. 676.—Region of the Third Part of the Subclavian Artery. (Bellamy.) (The shoulder represented depressed.) Costo-eoracoid membrane and cephalic vein the posterior external jugular, a vessel which begins in the occipital region superficially and runs down in front of the anterior border of the trapezius, across the posterior triangle. The spinal accessory enters the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid from one to one and a half inches below the apex of the mastoid, along a line drawn downwards and outwards from the angle of the jaw. Having traversed the muscle obliquely, it pursues a similar course across the posterior triangle, disappears on a level with the sixth or seventh cervical spine beneath the trapezius, and descends under this muscle internal to the vertebral border of the scapula (Godlee). Just above the centre of the sterno-mastoid, the small occipital, great auricular, and transverse cervical nerves emerge, the first passing upwards and backwards to the scalp, the second upwards and forwards across the upper part of the sterno- mastoid to the ear, and the last turning straight forwards to the front of the neck. The phrenic nerve, taking its largest root from the fourth cervical, would begin deeply about the level of the hyoid bone; thence descending under the sterno-