1019 THE BLADDER outer principally longitudinal, a middle chiefly transverse, and an inner plexiform, but tending towards the vertical direction. The fibres of the outer layer are most distinctly longitudinal on the anterior and posterior surfaces, and extend above along the urachus, but they run obliquely over the sides of the bladder, decus- sating with each other in a complex manner; and near the urethral end of the viscus two strong bundles of the anterior longitudinal fibres run one on each side of the middle line in front of the anterior wall of the prostate and beneath the pubo-prostatic ligament, to become attached to the back of the pubic bones on each side of the symphysis (vesico-pubic muscle). The lower fibres of the middle layer form a kind of annular sphincter near the urethral orifice (sphincter vesicae internus), the fibres of which are continuous with the upper sphincteric fibres of the prostate, and at the trigone are reinforced by the expansion of the longitudinal ureteric fibres named on page 1016. The inner layer appears as a set of well-defined bands running in a longitudinal direction and communicating with each other by means of oblique fasciculi. These bands, when hypertrophied, appear as distinct ridges beneath the mucous membrane, and their interspaces may be seen as depressions which occasionally develop into diverticula. At the trigone, the inner layer is strengthened by the radiation of the ureteric fibres. The rather coarse meshwork formed by the decussating muscular bundles is apt to present weak points through which the mucous membrane may protrude as diverticular sacculations, sometimes of considerable size and capable of lodging calculous concretions. On the other hand, when the muscular tissue becomes hypertrophied from excessive use, it often forms strong ridgedike projections which may give rise to deceptive impressions during exploration of the cavity with the sound. The submucous coat consists of a highly elastic connective tissue devoid of muscular fibres. The mucous membrane is smooth, soft, and rose-coloured during life. In the empty bladder it is thrown into irregular folds, which become effaced by distension. It is modified posteriorly over a triangular area called the Trigone of Lieutaud (fig. 618), the three angles of which lie at the internal meatus and the two ureteric orifices, and are at a distance from each other of three-quarters of an inch to an inch (18 to 25 mm. ). This region, which lies opposite to the ' second portion ' of the rectum, is free from the plication that appears in the rest of the mucous membrane during contraction of the cavity, and is bounded by a transverse elevation between the ureters, called the plica ureterica, and presents a longitudinal mesial ridge, the uvula of Lieutaud, near the urethral orifice. It is smaller and less distinct in the female. The internal urinary meatus usually lies at the most dependent part