THE SKELETON 158 THE FIBULA This is a long slender bone lying postero-externally in the leg, to the outer side of and somewhat posterior to the tibia, with which it articulates both above and below. It is excluded from the knee-joint but forms the outer boundary of the ankle-joint. The upper extremity, or head, is a rounded prominence. Its upper surface is rough externally for the attachment of the biceps tendon and the long external lateral ligament of the knee-joint; internally it presents a round or oval articular facet for the outer tuberosity of the tibia; the margins of this facet give attachment to the capsular ligament of the superior tibio-fibular articulation. Posteriorly, it rises into a pointed process, the styloid process, which gives attachment at its apex to the short external lateral ligament of the knee and laterally to part of the biceps tendon. The posterior aspect of the head gives attachment to the soleus, the outer to the peroneus longus, the anterior to the extensor longus digitorum, and the inner lies adjacent to the tibia. The lower extremity, external malleolus, is a triangular piece of bone placed with the base uppermost. Its outer surface is convex and subcutaneous. The inner surface is divided into an anterior and upper area, triangular in outline and convex from above downwards for articulation with the outer side of the astragalus, and a lower and posterior excavated area, the digital fossa, in which are attached the transverse inferior tibio-fibular ligament and the posterior band of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The anterior border is rough; it gives attachment to the anterior band of the external lateral ligament of the ankle, the anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament, and the anterior annular ligament. The posterior border is grooved for the peronei tendons, and the apex gives attachment to the middle band of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The shaft is quadrangular, possessing four borders and surfaces. The anterior border commences in front of the head and terminates below by dividing to enclose the subcutaneous surface on the outer side of the external malleolus. The antero-internal border also commences in front of the head, close to the antero- external border; it terminates below by dividing to enclose a rough triangular area immediately above the facet for the astragalus; this area gives attachment to the inferior interosseous ligament, and sometimes bears at its lower end a narrow facet for the tibia. The postero-internal border commences at the inner side of the head and terminates below by joining the antero-internal border at the upper part of the lower fourth of the shaft. The postero-external border runs from the back of the head to the inner border of the peroneal groove on the back of the lower extremity; it gives attachment to the fascia separating the peronei and the flexor muscles. The anterior or extensor surface between the antero-internal and antero-external borders is narrow above but broader below; three muscles spring from it: externally in the upper two-thirds the extensor longus digitorum, and in the lower third the peroneus tertius; internally in the middle third the extensor longus hallucis. The internal surface between the antero- and postero-internal borders is usually concave; it is narrow above and below, and broadest in the middle; it is frequently crossed by one or more oblique ridges, and it gives attachment to the tibialis posticus. The posterior surface between the postero-internal and external borders is twisted; it looks backwards above and inwards below; in its upper third it gives attach- ment to the soleus and in the lower two-thirds to the flexor longus hallucis. The external surface between the antero- and postero-external borders is also twisted, looking outwards above and backwards below, where it is continuous with the groove on the peronei tendons; it gives attachment in its upper two-thirds to the peroneus longus and in the lower two-thirds to the peroneus brevis. The muscles arising from the fibula are:— Soleus. Tibialis posticus. Peroneus tertius. Flexor longus hallucis.