RELATION OF VISCERA TO ABDOMINAL WALLS 1117 sternal joint; the right half to about the level of the fifth rib, or about one inch below the nipple; the left half not rising quite so high. Viscera behind the linea alba.—From above downwards there are the iollow- ino- (fig 686)-—(1) Above the umbilicus—the left lobe of the liver, the stomach the transverse colon, part of the great omentum, the pancreas and solar plexus (2) Below the umbilicus—the rest of the great omentum, covering m the' small intestines and their mesentery. In the child, the bladder occupies a partly abdominal position; and in the adult, the same viscus, if distended, may rise out of the pelvis and displace the above structures, raising the peritoneum until if distended half way to the umbilicus, there is an area of nearly two inches safe for operations above the symphysis. The gravid uterus also rises along the linea alba. . .,. . The liver (figs. 57-9, 580, and 581).—In the erect position, the anterior thin edge of the liver projects about half an inch below the costal cartilages, but can only be made out with difficulty in this position. It may also be displaced down- wards by pleuritic effusion or tight lacing. The liver is also, proportionately, much larger in little children. Fig. 687.—Section of Abdomen between the Third and Fourth Lumbar Vertebrae. (Branne.) UMBILICUS SYMPATHETIC TRANSVERSE COLON GREAT OMENTUM URETER Transversalis Internal oblique External oblique DESCENDING COLON Quadratus lumboruui Psoas Aorta ARTICULAR PROCESS OF THIRD LUMBAR ASCENDING COLON Psoas Vena cava INTERVERTEBRAL CARTILAGE Of the three parts of the liver (according to the regions which it occupies), that in the right hypochondrium corresponds to the lower margin of the thorax; but in the epigastric region the anterior margin, running obliquely across from the ninth right to the eighth left costal cartilage, crosses the middle line about a hand's breadth below the sterno-xiphoid articulation (Godlee). The size of the left lobe varies. In infants it will occupy the left hypochondrium; in adults its extent to the left will vary from a point an inch and a half or two inches beyond the sternum to the left nipple line. The level of the upper border varies also with position, resjiiration, etc. It may be represented, on the right, by a line drawn about one inch below the nipple, along the seventh rib, towards the middle line, the fifth chondro-sternal joint, and the sterno-xiphoid articulation (or central tendon of the diaphragm); on the left side it does not reach quite so high: thus its level would be marked by the sixth chondro-sternal joint. Behind, the liver would be below the base of the right lung, on a level with the tenth thoracic spine (figs. 708, 709, and 710). Gall-bladder.—The fundus of this, situated in a fossa on the under surface of