462 SECTION IV ARTERIES, VEINS, AND LYMPHATICS By W. J. WALSH AM, F.RC.S. SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL; LECTURER ON SURGERY; LATE LECTURER ON ADVANCED ANATOMY IN ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL MEDICAL SCHOOL, ETC., ETC. THE ARTERIES THE arteries are divided into the pulmonary and the systemic. The pul- monary convey the blood from the right ventricle of the heart to the lungs, whence it is returned, when aerated, by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle, and through that cavity into the left ventricle. The systemic arteries carry the blood from the left ventricle all over the body, whence it is returned by the vense cavee to the right auricle, and through it to the right ventricle. The lungs also receive blood from the systemic arteries—the bronchial. This blood which serves for the nourishment of the larger and smaller branches of the bronchial tubes and the lung substance is returned, in part by the bronchial veins to the general venous circulation, and thence to the right side of the heart; and in part by the pulmonary veins, along with the aerated blood, to the left side of the heart. THE.PULMONARY ARTERY The pulmonary artery (fig. 317) passes from the right ventricle to the lungs. It differs from all other arteries in the body in that it contains venous blood. It arises as a short, thick trunk from the upper and front part of the right ventricle known as the conus arteriosus, and, after a course of about two inches within the pericardium—the serous layer of which membrane forms a common sheath for it and the aorta—divides into a right and a left branch. These branches pierce the pericardium, and pass to the right and left lung respectively. The trunk of the pulmonary artery at its origin (fig. 319) is on a jdane anterior to the first portion of the arch of the aorta, and slightly overlaps that vessel. Thence it passes upwards, backwards, and to the left, forming a slight curve round the front and left side of the ascending portion of the aorta (fig. 321); and, having reached the concavity of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, on a level with the fifth thoracic vertebra, and on a plane posterior to the ascending aorta, it divides into its right and left branches, which diverge from each other at an angle of about 130°.