214 THE ARTICUIjA TIONS that the superior ligament of the seventh is blended with the inferior of the sixth rib. Deeper than the fibres of these ligaments are short fibres passing from the mar- gins of the sternal facets to the edges of the facets on the cartilages; they are most distinct in the front and lower part of the joint, and may encroach so much upon the synovial cavity as to reduce it to a very small size, or almost obliterate it. This occurs mostly in the case of the sixth and seventh joints, especially the latter. The interarticular ligament (fig. 217) is by no means constant, but is usually present in the second joint on one, if not on both sides of the same subject. It consists of a strong transverse bundle of fibres passing from the ridge on the facet on the cartilage to the symphysial substance between the manubrium and body; sometimes the upper part of the synovial cavity is partially or entirely obliterated by short, fine, ligamentous fibres. The chondro-xiphoid ligament (fig. 217) is a strong flat band of fibres passing obliquely upwards and outwards from the front surface of the xiphoid cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternal end of the seventh costal cartilage, and most frequently to that of the sixth also. Synovial membranes.—The union of the first cartilage with the sternum being synarthrodial, it has no synovial membrane; the second has usually two, separated by the interarticular ligament. The rest usually have one synovial membrane, which may occasionally be subdivided into two (fig. 217). The arterial supply is derived from perforating branches of the internal mam- mary; and the nerves come from the anterior branches of the intercostals. Movements.—Excepting the first, the chondro-sternal joints are ginglymoid, but the motion of which they are capable is very limited. It consists of a hinge- like action in two directions: first, there is a slight amount of elevation and depres- sion which takes place round a transverse axis, and, secondly, there is some forward and backward movement round an obliquely vertical axis. In inspiration the cartilage is elevated, and the lowest part of its articular facet is pressed into the sternal socket, and the sternum is thrust forwards so that the upper and front edges of the articular surfaces separate a little; in expiration the reverse movement takes place. Thus the two extremities of the costal arches move in their respective sockets in opposite directions. This difference results necessarily from the fact that the costal arch moves upon the vertebral column, and, having been elevated, it in its turn raises the sternum by pushing it upwards and forwards. The chondro-xiphoid ligament tends to prevent the xiphoid cartilage from being drawn backwards by the action of the diaphragm. (rf) The Interchondral Articulations Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. A little in front of the point where the costal cartilages bend upwards towards the median line, the sixth is united with the seventh, the seventh with the eighth, the eighth with the ninth, and the ninth with the tenth. At this point, each of the cartilages from the sixth to the ninth inclusive is deej)er than elsewhere, owing to the projection downwards from its lower edge of a broad blunt process, which comes into contact with the cartilage next below. Each of the apposed surfaces is smooth, and they are connected at their margins by liga- mentous tissue, which forms a complete capsule for the articulation, and is lined by a synovial membrane (fig. 217). The largest of these cavities is between the seventh and eighth; those between the eighth and ninth, and ninth and tenth, are smaller, and are not free to play upon each other in the whole of their extent, being held together by ligamentous tissue at their anterior margins. Sometimes this fibrous tissue completely obliterates the synovial cavity. The arteries are derived from the musculo-phrenie, and the nerves from the intercostals. Movements.—By means of the costal cartilages and interchondral joints,