MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL 95 The maxilla presents the following characters:—The maxillo-premaxillary suture is visible on the palatine aspect of the bone. The alveolar border presents five sockets for teeth. The infraorbital foramen communicates with the floor of the orbit by a deep fissure ; this fissure sometimes persists in the adult. The antrum is a shallow groove. The mandible at birth consists of two halves united by fibrous tissue in the line of the future symphysis. Each half is a bony trough lodging teeth. The trough is divided by thin osseous partitions into five compartments : of these, the fifth is the largest, and is often subdivided by a ridge of bone. The floor is traversed by a furrow as far forward as the fourth socket (that for the first milk molar), where it turns outwards at the mental foramen. This furrow lodges the mandibular (inferior dental) nerve and artery, which enter by the large mandibular foramen. The condyle is on a level with the mental extremity of the bone. Fig. 106.—The Maxilla at Bikth. PREMAX1LIARY PORTION Outer view. Inferior view. Inner view. The palate bones differ mainly from the adult bone in that the vertical and horizontal plates are of the same length ; thus the nasal tbsste in the foetus are as wide as they are high, whereas in the adult the height of each nasal fossa greatly exceeds the width. Concerning the remaining bones little need be said. The vomer is a delicate trough of bone for the reception of the inferior border of the ethmo-vomerine plate ; its inferior border, that which rests upon the palate, is broad, and the bone presents quite a different appearance from the adult vomer. The nasal bones are short but broad ; the malar and inferior turbinals are relatively very large ; and the lachrymals are thin, frail, and delicate lamellfe. The hyoid consists of its usual five parts. There is a median nucleus for the basi-hyal, and one on each side for the greater coruua (thyro-hyals). The lesser coruua are cartilaginous. Fig. 107.—The Mandible at Bikth. OUTER VIEW INNER VIEW Remnants of the cartilaginous cranium.—It has already been pointed out that at an early date the base of the skull and the face are represented by hyaline cartilage, which for the most part is replaced by bone before birth. Even at birth remnants of this primitive chondral skull are abundant. In the cranium, cartilaginous tracts exist between the various portions of the occipital bone, as well as at the line of junction of the occipital with the petrosal and sphenoid. The dorsum ephippii is entirely cartilaginous at birth, and the last portion of this cartilage disappears with the ankylosis of the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid about the twenty-fifth year. A similar strip of cartilage lying between the jugular process and the jugular surface of the petrosal persists until late in life. A strip of cartilage unites the ali-sphenoids with the lingulae, and for at least a year after birth this cartilage is continuous with that which throughout life