THE MUSCLES 876 Nerve-supply.—From the posterior tibial nerve by branches which enter the muscle in the upper part of its posterior surface near its inner border. Action.—This muscle, which is much more powerful than the flexor longus digitoram, is a strong flexor of the last phalanx of the great toe, and is of great importance in walking, as it presses the great toe firmly against the ground. The ungual phalanx of the great toe is the last part of the foot to leave the ground when the step is completed; and until this is the case the flexor longus hallucis is strongly contracted. It will also help to flex the first phalanx of the great toe upon its metatarsal bone and it will act upon the joints which intervene between the first metatarsal bone and the astragalus so as to support the arch of the instep; and, finally, it will assist in the extension of the ankle-joint. Relations.—Superficially, in the leg, it is covered by the soleus, and in the foot by the abductor hallucis, the flexor longus digitorum, the external plantar vessels and nerve; on its outer side are the peronei; on its deep aspect in the leg lie the tibialis posticus and the peroneal vessels; and, after passing over the back of the ankle and other joints, it lies upon the inner head of the flexor brevis hallucis. Variations.—An accessory portion of the muscle may be inserted into the sustentaculum tali or the inner surface of the calcaneum. The slip to the flexor longus digitorum tendon may vary in the number of toes to which it is distributed. Fourth Layer The fourth layer consists of one muscle—the tibialis posticus. TIBIALIS POSTICUS The tibialis posticus—named from its position in the back part of the leg and its origin from the tibia—is a thick fusiform sheet. Origin.—(1) The whole of the back of the interosseous ligament with the exception of the lowest portion; (2) the posterior surface of the tibia close to the interosseous line, from the upper end of the oblique line to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the shaft; (3) the antero-internal (or inner part of the flexor) surface of the fibula at the back of the interosseous ridge to within a short distance of the ankle; (4) the intermuscular septa which intervene between it and the muscles of the third layer, viz. the flexor longus hallucis and the flexor longus digitorum; and (5) a small portion of the deep tibial fascia which separates the second from the third layer. Insertion.—(1) The tuberosity of the scaphoid bone; (2) by several smaller offsets into the front of the lower surface of the sustentaculum tali and the under surface of all the other tarsal bones with the exception of the astragalus; and (3) the under surface of the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Structure..—A strong bipenniform muscle, the central tendon of which, lying upon the middle of the back of the muscle, begins about the middle of the leg, and passes downwards and inwards upon the back of the muscle, receiving its last fleshy fibres about an inch (2"5 cm.) above the ankle. Having passed inwards beneath the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, it enters the innermost groove on the back of the internal malleolus, and is contained in a synovial sheath which accompanies it to its insertion upon the scaphoid bone. From this insertion strong fibrous bands radiate backwards, outwards, and forwards to the tarsal and meta- tarsal bones, being intimately blended with the ligaments by which these bones are held together. Tlris muscle, which is very strong, is contained, so to speak, in a four-sided long case formed in the front by the interosseous membrane; at the sides, by the opposing surfaces of the tibia and fibula; and behind, at a distance of nearly half an inch (1*2 cm.) from the interosseous membrane, by the intermus- cular septa which separate the muscle from the flexor longus hallucis and the flexor longus digitorum. Just above its insertion into the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone, the tendon often contains a sesamoid bone.