THE LARYNX 901 The middle mediastinum contains the heart, the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta and the pulmonary artery, the superior vena cava (lower half), all of which are placed within the pericardium; and in addition the phrenic nerves and their companion arteries, the termination of the azygos vein, the roots of the lungs, with some bronchial lymphatic glands. The anterior mediastinum is narrow above, lying behind the sternum opposite the second, third, and fourth cartilages. Below, it opens out into a quadrangular space, having nearly the whole of the lower half of the sternum, the lower edge of the fourth, the fifth, part of the sixth, and the termination of the seventh cartilages of the left side, with the triangularis sterni muscle in front (fig. 521). The pericar- dium forms its posterior Avail. The space merely contains some small lymphatic glands and areolar tissue, and a few irregular bands, the inferior sterno-pericardiac ligaments, with the thymus gland or its vestiges. It corresponds to the area of cardiac dullness. The posterior mediastinum is bounded in front by the roots of the lungs and posterior surface of the pericardium, and behind by the thoracic vertebral column below the fourth thoracic vertebra. On each side it is bounded by the pleural sacs. It contains the third part of the aortic arch and the descending aorta, oesophagus, and pneumogastric nerves, azygos veins, thoracic duct, and lymphatic glands. THE ORGANS OF VOICE THE LARYNX The larynx is the organ of the voice, and the protector of the air passages from the intrusion of foreign bodies. By its closure, moreover, it retains the air within the chest cavity, contributing to the fixity of the thorax, a condition which is essential to the due performance of a variety of muscular actions. It consists of a framework of cartilages held together by ligaments and acted upon by muscles (extrinsic and intrinsic). It is lined by a very sensitive mucous membrane, and supplied with blood-vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. The cartilages of the larynx are nine in number. Some of these are single, some are arranged in pairs. Single cartilages :— Paired cartilages :— Thyroid. Arytenoid. Cricoid. Cornicula laryngis (Santorini). Epiglottis. Cuneiform (Wrisberg). From their general structure they may be arrranged as follows:— Hyaline :— Yellow elastic :— Thyroid. Epiglottis. Cricoid. Cornicula laryngis. Arytenoid (the tip of the arytenoid Cuneiform, is yellow elastic). In the anteater there extends backwards from each side of the epiglottis to the summit of the arytenoids a continuous rim of yellow elastic cartilage. It is the broken remnant of this which in man forms the cornicula and the cuneiform cartilages. (Bland Sutton.) The THYROID CARTILAGE forms the front and sides of the upper part of the larynx, being placed above the cricoid. It consists of two nearly square symmetrical plates, or alse, united in front, where they form the pomum Adami, but widely