THE TARSAL JOINTS 269 inner and stronger fibres of the anterior ligament. It is also limited by the pos- terior portion of the astragalus meeting with the tibia. Thus the middle portion of the external lateral ligament is always on the stretch, owing to its obliquely back- ward direction, whereby it limits flexion; and its attachment to the fibula in front of the malleolar apex, whereby it prevents over-extension as soon as the foot begins to twist inwards. This inward twisting, or adduction of the foot, is partly due to the greater posterior length of the inner border of the superior articular surface of the astragalus, and to the less proportionate height posteriorly of the external border of that surface, but chiefly to the lateral movement in the caleaneo-astragaloid joints. Flexion and extension take place round a transverse axis drawn through the body of the astragalus. The movement is not in a direct antero-posterior plane, but on a plane inclined forwards and outwards from the middle of the astragalus to the intermetatarsal joint of the second and third toes. 5. THE TARSAL JOINTS These may again be divided up into the following sub-groups:— (a) The caleaneo-astragaloid union. (6) The articulations of the anterior portion of the tarsus, (c) The medio-tarsal joint. (a) The Calcaneo-astragaloid Union There are two joints which enter into this union—viz. an anterior and a posterior. (i) The Posterior Calcaneo-astragaloid Joint Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The calcaneum articulates with the astragalus by two joints, the anterior and posterior: the former communicates with the medio-tarsal; the posterior is separate and complete in itself. The two bones are united by the following ligaments:— Interosseous. External calcaneo-astragaloid. Posterior calcaneo-astragaloid. Internal calcaneo-astragaloid. The interosseous ligament (figs. 255 and 256) is a strong band connecting the apposed surfaces of the calcaneum and astragalus along their oblique grooves. It is composed of several vertical laminae of fibres, with some fatty tissue in between. It is better marked, deeper, and broader externally. Strong lamina? extend from the rough inferior and external surfaces of the neck of the astragalus to the rough superior surface of the os calcis anteriorly, forming the posterior boundary of the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint; these have been described as the anterior interosseous ligament. The posterior laminae extend from the roof of the sinus pedis to the os calcis immediately in front of the external facet, thus forming the anterior part of the capsule of the posterior joint. The external calcaneo-astragaloid ligament (fig. 255) extends from the groove just below and in front of the external articular facet of the astragalus, to the os calcis some little distance from the articular margin. Its fibres are nearly parallel with those of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle, which passes over it and adds to its strength. It fills up the interval between the middle and anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament, a considerable bundle of its fibres blending with the anterior border of the middle fasciculus. The posterior calcaneo-astragaloid ligament passes from the external tubercle and lower edge of the groove for the flexor longus hallucis to the os calcis, a variable distance from the articular margin. The internal calcaneo-astragaloid ligament is a narrow band of well-marked