7 THE CERVICAL VERTEBRAE The transverse processes are two in number, and jut outwards from the pedicles and laminae between the superior and inferior articular processes. The tip presents an oval facet for articulation with the tubercle of the rib. When the rib is in situ, its neck forms with the process a costo-transverse foramen. The transverse pro- cesses, in addition to supporting the ribs, afford powerful leverage to muscles. THE CERVICAL VERTEBRAE A typical cervical vertebra (from the third to sixth inclusive) presents the following characters: The centrum is smaller than in other regions of the column, and is of oval shape, the major axis being transverse. The upper surface has its lateral margins raised into prominent lips, whilst the lower surface is somewhat concave, its anterior margin being lipped so as to slightly overlap the anterior surface of the vertebra below. The inferior lateral margins are rounded, and come into relation with the raised edges of the centrum next below. The pedicles are directed obliquely outwards, and the intervertebral notch is narrower above than beloAV. The laminae are long and narrow. The spinous pro- cess is short, and bifid at the extremity. Articular processes.—Both the upper and lower articular processes are situated at the junction of the pedicle with the laminae and they form the upper and lower extremities of a small column of bone. The facets of the upper pro- cesses look backwards and upwards and those of the lower processes forwards and downwards. The transverse process presents near its base the costo-transverse foramen for the transmission of the vertebral artery, vein, and a plexus of sympathetic nerves. The process behind the foramen has a shallow groove for the corresponding spinal nerve. The extremity of the transverse process is bifid; each arm is terminated by a tubercle referred to as anterior and posterior. The costo-transverse foramen is very characteristic of a cervical vertebra. It is bounded internally by the pedicle, posteriorly by the transverse process, anteriorly by the costal process, and exter- nally by the costo-transverse lamella which runs obliquely upwards and forwards in the upper vertebrae and horizontally in the lower. The spinal foramen of all the cervical vertebras is large, and somewhat triangular in form. Peculiar cervical vertebrae.—The various cervical vertebrae possess distinguish- ing features. The first, second, and seventh have characters so different from their fellows as to render them peculiar. The Atlas or First Cervical Vertebra This vertebra has neither body nor spinous process; it is an irregular ring of bone with two thicker portions, the lateral masses, united anteriorly by a bridge, the anterior arch, which constitutes one-fifth of the entire circumference. This arch