THE ORGANS OF VOICE 906 mainly of elastic fibres. It is attached below to the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, and above to the upper and hinder margin of the hyoid bone. It presents a thick central portion (stretching between the median notch and the body of the hyoid bone), and thinner lateral portions, looser in texture, which are pierced by the superior laryngeal nerves and arteries. Posteriorly, the membrane is looselv connected with the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage, and above these it is bounded on each side by thickened bands, the thyro-hyoid ligaments, which pass between their tips and the greater cornua of the hyoid bone. A little grain-like cartilage (cartilago triticea) is usually imbedded in this band just above the superior thyroid cornu. The central portion of the membrane is mainly subcutaneous, a bursa interven- ing where it is overhung by the body of the hyoid bone. Its lateral portions are covered by the thyro-hyoid muscles. Posteriorly it is separated from the epiglottis by the mucous membrane at the base of the tongue and the areolar fatty tissue already described. It is pierced by the internal laryn- geal vessels and nerves. The crico-thyroid membrane ( intrinsic ) is composed chiefly of elastic tissue. It presents a prominent rounded median portion overlapped slightly by the crico- thyroid muscles, but between these muscles it is subcutaneous. It is crossed by a small anastomotic arch formed by the crico-thyroid twigs of the superior laryngeal artery; one or two small holes, which pass through it, transmit vessels from the arch to the interior of the larynx. Fig. 527.—Superior View of the Cartilages of the Larynx. ANTERIOR SURFACE OF - CRICOID CARTILAGE True vocal cord Crico-thyroid membrane CRICOID CARTILAGE VOCAL PROCESS ANTERIOR SURFACE OF ARYTENOID CARTILAGE INFERIOR CORNU OF THYROID CARTILAGE SUPERIOR CORNU 0r THYROID CARTILAGE POSTERIOR SURFACE OF ARYTENOID CARTILAGE Anterior portion of crico-thyroid membrane Cut edge of crico-thyroid membrane _ SUPERIOR BORDER OF THYROID CARTILAGE CRICO-THYROID ARTICULATION SUPERIOR BORDER OF CRICOID CARTILAGE CORNICULUM LARYNGIS POSTERIOR SURFACE OF CRICOID CARTILAGE This median portion of the membrane stretches between the borders of the two cartilages. The lateral and thinner portions pass upwards from the inner border of the upper margin of the cricoid cartilage in contact with the laryngeal mucous membrane, and within the embrace of the thyroid cartilage, to form the true vocal cords or inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. These elastic bands extend from the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages to the retiring angle of the thyroid near its centre. The lateral portions of this membrane are covered superficially by the thyro- arytenoid and lateral crico-arytenoid muscles. The superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments are contained within the arched folds of mucous membrane which form the false vocal cords. They consist of a few bundles of fibrous tissue. The crico-arytenoid or transverse ligament has been already sufficiently noticed. The Joints of the Larynx.—The crico-thyroid joints are lined by a synovial membrane, embraced by a thin capsule of radiating fibres, and often strengthened posteriorly by a well-marked fibrous band. They permit of movement between the two cartilages upon an axis passing transversely through both joints, and a limited gliding of the cricoid upwards and backwards. As can be shown on the living body, the cricoid is the cartilage which swings between the inferior thyroid cornua.