THE ARTERIES 598 On its outer side it is in contact in its upper third with the extensor longus digitorum muscle; in its middle third with the extensor proprius hallucis; hut, as this muscle crosses to the inner side of the artery, the vessel usually for a very short part of its course comes again into contact with the extensor longus digitorum. At the upper and lower thirds of its course on the front of the leg the artery has the anterior tibial nerve to its outer side. In front the artery is covered by the skin, superficial and deep fascia. In its upper two-thirds it is deeply placed in the cellular interval between the tibialis anticus on the inner side, and the extensor longus digitorum and extensor proprius hallucis on its outer side; and in its lower third it is crossed from without inwards by the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis, and lies beneath the anterior annular ligament of the ankle-joint. The anterior tibial nerve is usually in front of the artery in the middle third of the leg. The branches of the anterior tibial artery are:—(1) The posterior tibial recurrent; (2) the superior fibular; (3) the anterior tibial recurrent; (4) the mus- cular; (5) the internal malleolar; and (6) the external malleolar. (1) The posterior tibial recurrent is occasionally absent. It ascends between the popliteus muscle and the posterior ligament of the knee-joint supplying these structures and the superior tibio-fibular joint. It anastomoses with the inferior external articular branch of the popliteal, and to a less extent with the inferior internal articular branch. (2) The superior fibular is a branch of small size which arises from the main trunk just before it passes through the interosseous space. It winds round the neck of the fibula, pierces the attachment of the soleus and is distributed to that muscle and to the skin. (3) The anterior tibial recurrent is given off from the anterior tibial artery immediately after that vessel has passed through the interosseous membrane. It winds tortuously through the substance of the tibialis anticus muscle, over the outer tuberosity of the tibia close to the bone; and, perforating the deep fascia, ramifies on the lower and outer part of the capsule of the knee-joint. It anas- tomoses with the inferior and superior external articular branches of the popliteal, with the descending branch of the external circumflex, and somewhat less freely with the internal articular branches of the popliteal and with the anastomotica magna. It gives off small branches to the tibialis anticus, the extensor longus digitorum, the knee-joint, and the contiguous fascia and skin. It forms one of the collateral channels by which the blood is carried to the limb below in obstruc- tion of the popliteal artery (fig. 370). (4) The muscular branches, some ten or twelve in number, arise irregularly from either side of the artery as it courses down the limb, and supply the con- tiguous muscles. (5) The internal malleolar, the smaller of the two malleolar branches, arises from the lower part of the anterior tibial artery a little higher than the external, usually about the spot where the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis crosses the anterior tibial artery. It winds inwards over the internal malleolus, passing beneath the tibialis anticus, and forms an internal malleolar plexus or rete about the inner ankle over the lower end of the tibia by anastomosing with branches from the posterior tibial, internal plantar, and internal calcanean arteries. (6) The external malleolar, larger than the internal, arises from the outer •side of the anterior tibial artery, usually on a lower level than the internal malleolar. ' It winds in an outward and downward direction round the external malleolus, passing beneath the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, and forms the external malleolar plexus or rete by anastomosing with the anterior peroneal, the termination of the peroneal, the external plantar, and the external tarsal branch of the dorsalis pedis (fig. 381). The anastomosis between the external malleolar and anterior peroneal is some- times of considerable size, supplying the blood to the dorsal artery of the foot; the anterior tibial, then much reduced in size, usually ends at the spot where the external malleolar is usually given off.