THE LYMPHATICS 650 Some of the facial lymphatics pass through these on their way to the submaxillary glands. (5) The submaxillary lymphatic glands are situated in the digastric triangle, beneath the body of the lower jaw. They vary from eight to twelve in number. They receive some of the lymphatics from the face, i.e. from the upper and lower lips and side of the nose; the lymphatics from the floor of the mouth, from the front part of the tongue, and from the sublingual and submaxillary salivary glands, and the anterior efferent vessels from the parotid lymphatic glands. Their efferent vessels terminate partly in the deep, and partly in the superficial cervical lymphatic glands. Two or three glands situated in the middle line between the anterior bellies Fig. 393.—The Superficial Lymphatics of the Scalp, Face, and Neck. (Walsham.) Frontal vein Supraorbital vein Com at n n icaiion with ophthalmic vein Transverse nasal vein _-^f fy/ Angular vein Lateral nasal veins Transverse faciaI vein Superior labial or coronary vei An terior pterygo or deep facial vei Inferior coronary vei Fw Inferior labial vein Submental vein Lingual vein Snjierior thyroid Middle thyroid vein Sterno-maBtoid Anterior jugular vein Communication between anterior jugular veins PlatyBma, cut Anterior temporal vein h Posterior temporal vein Peep temporal vein Parotid lymphatic glands Common temporal vein al maxillary vein Occipital vein Temporo-maxillary vein Posterior auricular vein Occipital lymphatic glands Ste mo-mast aid lymphatic glands Comm un ication between facial and external jugular veins Submaxillary lymphatic glands In ternal jugular vein Posterior external jugular vein External jugular vein Superficial cervical chain of glands Transverse cervical vein \ Suprascaptilar vein Jugulo-cephalic vein of the digastric muscles are sometimes distinguished as the suprahyoid lym- phatic glands. 2. The vertical set of superficial glands of the neck—four to six in number, known as the superficial cervical chain—are situated chiefly in the posterior triangle of the neck, along the course of the external jugular vein, between the platysma and the deep fascia. Small superficial glands are also found in the front of the neck between the hyoid bone and the sternum, and posteriorly over the trapezius muscle. The superficial cervical glands receive the vessels from the occipital glands, and from the posterior auricular glands, and part of those from the parotid and submaxillary glands. They also receive the lymphatics from the