483 SUPERIOR THYROID—LINGUAL the thyrohyoid muscle, and, perforating the thyro-hyoid membrane along with the superior laryngeal nerve, supplies the intrinsic muscles and mucous lining of the larynx. Its further distribution within the larynx is given with the description of that organ. This branch sometimes arises from the external carotid direct. It may enter the larynx by passing through a foramen in the thyroid cartilage. (4) The crico-thyroid—or inferior laryngeal branch as it is sometimes called, usually insignificant in size—passes across the crico-thyroid membrane immediately beneath the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and usually sends a small branch through the membrane into the interior of the larynx. Occasionally a considerable twig descends over the cricoid cartilage to enter the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The crico-thyroid has, however, frequently been seen of comparatively large size— once as large as the radial, and crossing the membrane obliquely. In order to Fig. 332.—Scheme of Left Superior Thyroid Artery. (Walsham.) avoid injuring the crico-thyroid artery in the operation of laryngotomy, it is usual, if the operation has to be done in a hurry, to make the incision through the crico-thyroid membrane in a transverse direction, and as near to the cricoid cartilage as £>ossible. 3. THE LINGUAL ARTERY The lingual artery (fig. 333) arises from the front of the external carotid, between the superior thyroid and facial arteries, often, as a common trunk with the latter vessel, and nearly opposite or a little below the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. _ It may, for purposes of description, be divided into three portions: the first, or oblique, extends from its origin to the outer edge of the hyo-glossus muscle; the second, or horizontal, lies beneath the hyo-glossus; the third, or ascending, beneath the tongue. The first or oblique portion is situated in the superior carotid triangle, and is superficial, being covered merely by the integuments,