OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN 197 (e) The Ligaments connecting the Transverse Processes with one another The intertransverse ligaments are barely worth the name; in the thoracic region they form small rounded bundles, and in the lumbar they are thin mem- branous bands, quite incapable of action as bonds of union. They consist of fibres passing between the apices of the transverse processes. In the cervical region they are replaced by the intertransversales muscles. The arterial supply for the column comes from twigs of the vertebral, ascend- ing pharyngeal, ascending cervical, superior and aortic intercostals, lumbar, ilio- lumbar, and lateral sacral. The nerve-supply comes from the spinal nerves of each region. Movements.—The spinal column is so formed of a number of bones and inter- vertebral discs as to serve many purposes. It is the axis of the skeleton; upon it the skull is supported; and with it the cavities of the trunk, and the limbs are con- nected. As a fixed column it is capable of bearing great weight; and, through the elastic intervertebral substances, of resisting and breaking the transmission of Fig. 205.—The Interspinous and Supraspinous Ligaments in the Lumbar Region. shocks. Moreover, it is flexible, and therefore capable of movement. Now, the range of movements of the column as a whole is very considerable; but the move- ments between any two vertebra? are slight, so that motions of the spine may take place without any change in the shape of the column, and without any marked disturbance in the relative positions of the vertebra?. It is about the pulpy part of the intervertebral discs, which form a central elastic pivot or ball, upon which the middle of the vertebrae rest, that these movements take place. The amount of motion is everywhere limited by the common vertebral liga- ments, but it depends partly upon the width of the bodies of the vertebra;, and partly upon the depth of the discs, so that in the loins, where the bodies are large and wide, and the discs very thick, free motion is permitted; in the cervical region, though the discs are thinner, yet, as the bodies are smaller, almost equally free motion is allowed. As the ball-like pulpy part of the intervertebral disc is the centre of movement of each vertebra, it is obvious that the motion would be of a rolling character in any direction but for the articular processes, which serve also to give steadiness to the column and to assist in bearing the superincumbent weight. ~£— The supraspinous fl | ligament The interspinous ligament