MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL 93 tubercle or jugular process ; the squamo-occipital presents two deep fissures separating the interparietal from the supraoccipital portion, and extending nearly as far inwards as the occipital protuberance. The grooves for the lateral sinus are absent. The sphenoid in a macerated foetal skull falls into three pieces. The main portion consists of the united pre- and post-sphenoid with the orbito-sphenoids and lingulae. The pre- sphenoid is quite solid and connected with the ethmo-vomerine cartilage, and presents no traces of the air sinuses which occupy this part in the adult skull. The pre-sphenoid by its upper surface forms part of the anterior cranial fossa, from which it is subsequently excluded by the orbito-sphenoids. The optic foramina are large and triangular in shape. The lingulae stand out from the basi-sphenoid as two lateral buttresses, and the floor of the sella turcica presents the cranio-pharyngeal canal, which in a recent bone is occupied by fibrous tissue. The dorsum Fig. 101.—The Sphenoid at Birth. VIDIAN CANAL LINGULA ephippii is yet cartilaginous. The ali-sphenoids with the pterygoid processes are separated from the rest of the bone by cartilage. The forameu rotundum is complete, but the future foramen ovale is merely a deep notch in its posterior border, and there is no foramen spiuosum. The pterygoid processes are short, and each internal pterygoid plate presents a broad surface for articulation with the lingulae. The Vidian canal is a groove between the internal pterygoid plate, the lingula, and greater wing. The temporal bone at birth consists of three parts (excluding the ear-bones) : the petrosal, squamosal, and tympanic. The petrosal presents a large and conspicuous floccular fossa ; the hiatus Fallopii is a shallow bay lodging the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. There is a Fig. 102.—The Temporal Bone at Bikth. relatively large mastoid antrum, but no mastoid process. The styloid process is unossified, but the tympano-hyal may be detected as a minute rounded nodule of bone near the stylo-mastoid foramen. The squamosal has a very shallow glenoid fossa and a relatively large post-glenoid tubercle. The posterior part of the inferior border is prolonged downwards into an uncinate process to close externally the mastoid antrum. The tympanic bone or annulus is a delicate horseshoe-shaped ossicle, attached by its anterior and posterior horns to the inferior border of the squamosal. The ear-bones are chiefly of interest from their size, for they are as large at birth as in the adult. The processus gracilis (Folian process) may be 2 cm. in length.