254 THE AR TICULA TIONS External Internal (1) Fibrous expansion of the extensors, (2) Capsular or anterior ligament. (3) Posterior ligament. (4) External lateral. (5) Internal lateral. (6) Ligamentum patellae. (1) Anterior crucial. (2) Posterior crucial. (3) Internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. (4) External semilunar fibro-cartilage. (5) Coronary. (6) Transverse. External Ligaments Superficial to the fibrous expansion of the quadriceps extensor tendons the fascia lata of the thigh covers the front and sides of the knee-joint. The deep fascia of the thigh, as it descends to its attachment to the tubercle and oblique lines of the tibia, not only overlies but blends with the fibrous expansion of the extensor tendons. The oblique lines of the tibia curve upwards and backwards from the tubercle on each side to the postero-lateral part of the tuberosities. The process of fascia attached to the outer ridge of the tibia and to the head of the fibula, descends from the tensor vaginae femoris and is very thick and strong. It is firmly blended with the tendinous fibres of the vastus externus. The fascia lata, on the inner side of the patella, besides being attached to the inner oblique ridge of the tibia, sends some longitudinal fibres lower down to become blended with the fibrous expansion of the sartorius. The fascia is much thinner on the inner side of the patella than on the outer, and blends much less with the tendon of the vastus interims than the outer part of the fascia does with the vastus externus. A thin layer of the fascia lata in the form of transverse or arciform fibres passes over the front of the joint. These fibres are specially well marked over the ligamentum patellae, and blend here with the central portion of the quadriceps extensor fibres. The fibrous expansion of the extensor tendons consists (1) of a central por- tion, densely thick and strong, an inch and a half (3*7 cm.) broad, which is inserted into the anterior two-thirds of the upper border of the patella, many of its super- ficial fibres passing over the subcutaneous surface of the bone into the ligamentum patella?; (2) of two lateral portions thinner, but strong. The lateral portions are inserted into the patella along its upper border on either side of the central portion and also into its lateral borders, nearer the anterior than the posterior surface, as low down as the attachment of the ligamentum patellae; passing thence along the sides of the ligamentum patellae to the tibia, they are attached to the oblique lines which extend laterally from the tubercle to the inner and outer tuberosities, and reach as far as the internal and external lateral ligaments. On the outer side, the fibres blend with the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata, and on the inner they extend below the oblique line to blend with the periosteum of the shaft. Thus there is a large hood spread over the whole of the front of the joint, investing the patella, and reaching from the sides of the ligamentum patellae to the lateral ligaments, attached below to the tibia, and separated everywhere from the synovial membrane by a layer of fatty tissue. The ligamentum patellae (fig. 247) is the continuation in line of the central portion of the conjoined tendon, some fibres of which are prolonged over the front of the patella into the ligament. It is an extremely strong, flat band, attached above to the lower border of the patella; below, it is fixed to the lower part of the tubercle and upper part of the crest of the tibia, somewhat obliquely, being pro- longed downwards further on the outer side, so that this border is fully an inch longer than the inner which measures two inches and a half (6-7 cm.) in length. Behind, it is in contact with a mass of fat which separates it from the synovial membrane, and a small bursa which intervenes between it and the upper part of the tubercle of the tibia. In front, a large bursa separates it from the subcu- taneous tissue, and laterally it is continuous with the fibrous expansion of the extensors. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 245) is a strong, flat band, which extends from the depression on the tubercle on the inner side of the internal condyle of the