1058 URINARY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS while the genital eminence ceases to enlarge and remains as the clitoris. In the male the evolu- tionary processes go farther. The margins of the uro-genital sinus fuse in the middle line to close in a prolongation of the urethra on the ventral aspect of the genital eminence and to form the scrotum, the process being concluded about the fifteenth week ; finally, a pouch of peritoneum makes its way on each side through the abdominal wall into the corresponding half of the scro- tum, and into this the testicle ultimately descends, guided by the gubernaculum (page 1025). The glands of Cowper or Bartholin in both sexes are formed by involutions of epithelium near the root of the rudimentary clitoris or penis. Should the process of mesial fusion fail, the urethra may present a fistulous opening on its ventral side, or may remain cleft from the meatus upwards for a greater or less distance. In the more aggravated forms the defect of union involves the scrotum also, and leads to a spurious hermaphrodism in which is perpetuated a superficial resemblance to the female genitals, the sim- ulation being made greater by the imperfect descent of the testicles. All these congenital defects are clearly accounted for by ascertained facts in morphology ; but there is a malformation which our present knowledge does not satisfactorily explain—that known as ' extroversion of the blad- der,' in which a non-closure of the ventral parietes below the umbilicus coincides with a fissure in the anterior wall of the allantoic bladder, and leads to an extrusion of the posterior wall of the viscus. Mr. Shattock suggests that the condition is perhaps the result of an undue extension forwards of the cloacal fissure ; but the problem cannot yet be regarded as solved. THE PERINjEUM The term perinaeum (ttj/5!, va(m) has been variously applied by anatomists— firstly, in its original and general meaning, to the soft parts connected with the pelvic outlet; secondly, to the anterior or genito-urinary segment only of these parts; and thirdly, to the tissues separating the vulvo-vaginal and ano-rectal passages. It is here employed in the first and broader sense, the expression ' perinaeum proper' being used for the second application, and that of ' perinaeal body ' for the third. The outlet of the pelvis is a lozenge-shaped space bounded in front by the symphysis and subpubic ligament, behind by the tip of the coccyx, and on each side by the conjoined rami of os pubis and ischium, the tuber ischii, and the inferior border of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The latter structure is overlapped to a variable extent by the gluteus maximus, which also covers the tuber ischii when the thighs are extended; but the glutei are merely accessory to the true boundaries. The dimensions of the outlet in the male and female are given on page 146. The further anatomy of the parts differs in the two sexes. THE MALE PERINEUM The integument of the perinaeum is pigmented, beset with scattered hairs, and provided with large sebaceous and sudoriparous glands. Its deeper layers contain an abundance of smooth muscular fibre continuous with the dartos of the scrotum, and these are so disposed around the anal margin as to corrugate the skin into radiating folds during their contraction. The landmarks of the region are for the most part well-defined. The symphysis in front is obscured by the root of the penis, which may be traced backwards as a soft median prominence as far as a point an inch anterior to the anus. On each side the pubic and ischial rami may be felt running outwards and backwards to expand into the ischial tuberosity, which is uncovered by the gluteus maximus when the thigh is flexed. Extending backwards and inwards from the tuberosity may be detected, in thin subjects, the resistance of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and still more posteriorly the coccyx is felt in the middle line immediately beneath the skin. The anal aperture, surrounded by radiating furrows, lies a short distance in front of the coccyx, and on each side of it is a depression called the ischio-rectal fossa, the superficial aspect of which depends upon the amount of fat which occu- pies it.