THE CALCANEUM 163 Blood-supply.—The astragalus is supplied by the dorsalis pedis artery and its tarsal branch. Ossification.—The astragalus is ossified from one, occasionally from two, nuclei. The principal centre for this bone appears in the middle of the cartilagi- nous astragalus at the seventh month of embryonic life. The additional centre is deposited in the posterior portion of the bone, and forms that part of the astragalus which, when it remains separate from the rest of the bone, is known as the os trigonum. At birth, the astragalus presents some important peculiarities in the disposition of the articular facet on the tibial side of its body, and in the obliquity of its neck. If, in the adult astragalus, a line be drawn through the middle of the trochlear surface parallel with its inner border, and a second line be drawn along the outer side of the neck of the bone so as to intersect the first, the angle formed by these two lines will express the obliquity of the neck of the bone. This in the adult varies greatly, but the average may be taken as 10°. In the foetus at birth the angle averages 35°, whilst in a young orang it measures 45°. In the normal adult astragalus the articular surface on the tibial side is limited to the body of the bone. In the foetal astragalus it extends for some distance on to the neck, and sometimes reaches almost as far forward as the scaphoid facet on the head of the bone. This disposition of the inner malleolar facet is a characteristic feature of the astragalus in the chimpanzee and the orang. It is related to the inverted position of the foot which is found in the human embryo to near the period of birth, and is of interest to the surgeon in connection with some varieties of club-foot. (Shattock and Parker.) THE CALCANEUM The calcaneum, or os calcis, is the largest tarsal bone. It is cuboidal in shape, and presents, for examination, six surfaces. The superior surface has in its middle a large, oval, convex, articular facet for the under aspect of the body of the astragalus; behind the facet, the bone is rough and convex laterally. In front of the facet the bone presents a deep depres- sion, the floor of which is rough for the attachment of ligaments, especially the calcaneo-astragaloid, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle; when the calcaneum and astragalus are articulated, this portion of the bone forms a floor to a cavity sometimes called the sinus pedis. Internally, this upper surface of the bone presents a well-marked lip, the sustentaculum tali, furnished with an elon- gated concave facet, occasionally divided into two, for articulation with the neck of the astragalus. The inferior surface is narrow and rough; it ends posteriorly in two tuber- cles : the inner is the larger and broader, the outer is narrower but prominent. The inner tubercle affords origin to the abductor hallucis, the flexor brevis digitorum, and the abductor minimi digiti; the last muscle also arises from the outer tubercle, and the ridge of bone connecting the tubercles. The outer tubercle affords attach- ment to the abductor ossis metatarsi quinti. The rough surface in front of the tuber- cles gives attachment to the long plantar ligament (calcaneo-cuboid) and the outer .head of the flexor accessories. Near its anterior end this surface forms a rounded eminence, the anterior tubercle, from which (and the shallow groove in front) the short plantar (calcaneo-cuboid) ligament arises. The external surface is rough and slightly convex. Near the middle of this surface there is a small tubercle for the middle fasciculus of the external lateral I ligament of the ankle-joint. Anteriorly, we notice the two shallow peroneal grooves, separated by a tubercle, which is sometimes very prominent. The | upper groove is for the tendon of the peroneus brevis, and the lower lodges the u tendon of the peroneus longus. The inner surface is deeply concave, the hollow being increased by the over- ,il hanging sustentaculum tali in front and above, and the prominent inner tubercle I posteriorly. The under aspect of the sustentaculum is deeply grooved for the ■tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, whilst the hollow below receives the plantar I vessels and nerves. Its lower border serves for the attachment of the inner head I