ABNORMAL MUSCLES 401 The pterygo-spinous arises from the alar spine of the sphenoid. It is inserted into the posterior margin of the external pterygoid plate. This muscle is some- times replaced by ligament. The pubo-transversalis arises from the ilio-pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon, and is inserted into the transversalis fascia, the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle or the outer end of the semilunar fold of Douglas. Rectus abdominis lateralis.—This muscle consists of vertical fibres passing from the lower ribs to the upper part of the ilium between the oblique abdominal muscles. The rectus capitis amicus medius arises from the middle of the anterior surface of the body of the axis near its lower border by means of a tendon. As it passes vertically upwards, it bifur- cates, each fleshy belly being inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone immediately in front of the foramen magnum, posterior to the insertion of the rectus capitis anticus major, and internal to that of the rectus capitis anticus minor. [Walsham, Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. xviii. p. 461.] The rhombo-atloideus arise* from the lower cervical or upper dorsal spines, superficial to the serratus posticus superior, and is inserted into the transverse process of the atlas. The rotator humeri arises from the under surface and outer border of the coracoid process of the scapula. It passes across the tendon of the subscapularis, to be inserted into the neck of the humerus, below the lesser tuberosity, and between the insertions of the subscapularis and the conjoined tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles. The rotator humeri is a part of the coraco-braehialis muscle, and is often referred to as the eoraco-braehialis superior vel brevis. [For figure, see Wood, Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. L p. 47.] The insertion of this muscle is indicated in fig. 125. The spheno-pharyngeus arises from the spine of tEe sphenoid and is inserted into the wall of the pharynx. The spinalis cervicis arises from the ligamentum nuehae and the first dorsal spine. It is inserted into the spine of the axis, and occasionally into the spines of the third and fourth cervical vertebrae. The sternalis muscle (rectus sternalis) arises from the sheath of the rectus abdominis, or from the tissues covering the fifth and sixth costal cartilages. The direction of the fibres is very variable. In some cases they are directed obliquely out- wards ; in others, they pass vertically upwards to be inserted into the fascia covering the origin of the sterno-mastoid, or into the aponeurosis of the pectoralis major, or into the upper part of the manubrium of the sternum. A sternalis may be present on each side. In some instances they are entirely muscular; in others, furnished with terminal tendons. [See Journ. of Anat. and Phys. voLs. i. 246, xviii. p. 208, xix. p. 311.] The sterno-clavicularis arises from the front of the manubrium sterni, and is inserted into the clavicle, between the pectoralis major and the costo-coracoid membrane. The stylo-auricularis arises from the cartilage of the external auditory meatus and is inserted into the styloid process of the stylo-glossus muscle. The subscapularis minor arises from the axillary border of the scapula and is inserted into the capsular ligament or the adjacent part of the inner margin of the bicipital groove. The supraclavicularis arises by a slender tendon from the upper border of the manubrium of the sternum. It passes outwards, above the sternoclavicular joint, behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, to be inserted into the clavicle. When present in both sides, the muscle sometimes fuses in the middle line. Supracostalis.—When this muscle is present it extends from the anterior end of the first to the anterior ends of the third or fourth ribs. It may be connected also with the deep fascia of the neck or the scalene muscles. The syndesmo-pharyngeus arises from the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament and is inserted into the middle constrictor. The tibialis secundus arises from the back of the tibia below the flexor longus digitorum and is inserted into the back of the capsule of the ankle-joint or into the annular ligament. The tibio-fascialis anticus arises from the lower third of the anterior border of the tibia. It is inserted into the annular ligament and deep fascia. Transversus menti.—A muscular band extending between the adjacent borders of the depressor muscles of the lower lip. The transversus nucha? arises from the external occipital protuberance and is inserted into the fascia of the sterno-mastoid. The triticeo-glossus arises from the cartilago triticea in the thyro-hyoid ligament. It is inserted into the side of the tongue, blending with the posterior fibres of the hyo- glossus. The ulnaris quinti digiti arises from the lower part of the ulna or from the extensor carpi uluaris. It is inserted into the metacarpal bone of the little finger or it may join the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti.