BRANCHES OF POPLITEAL 589 the superior above, the inferior below the joint, and, winding round the bones to the front of the knee, form—by anastomosing with each other and with the anasto- motica magna, the termination of the profunda, the descending branch of the external circumflex, and the anterior tibial recurrent—a superficial and deep arterial rete (fig. 376). The superficial anastomosis or rete lies between the skin and fascia round about the patella (patellar rete), which it supplies, the larger branches entering it from above. The deep anastomosis or rete lies on the surface of the bones around the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia, supplying branches to the contiguous bones and to the joints. The azygos articular is a single short trunk coming off from the deep surface of the popliteal artery. It at once passes through the posterior ligament into the joint. (a) The superior external articular, the larger of the two superior articular Fig. 376.—The Anastomosis about the Left Knee-joint. (Walsham. (Semi-diagrammatic.) Deep branch of anastomotica magna Superficial branch of anastomotica magna Adductor magnuB Superficial interned articular artery piercing tendon of adductor magnus Internal lateral ligament Inferior internal articular artery passing under internal lateral ligament Posterior tibial artery Descending branch of external circumflex artery Superior external articular artery passing through external inter- muscular septum EXTERNAL CONDYLE Long external lateral ligament Inferior external articular artery passing under external lateral ligament Anterior tibial recurrent artery Anterior tibial artery branches, runs transversely outwards above the external head of the gastrocnemius, and, passing beneath the biceps and through the external intermuscular septum and vastus externus, enters the substance of the crureus, and anastomoses, above with the descending branch of the external circumflex, below with the inferior external articular, and across the front of the femur with the superior internal articular, the anastomotica magna, and termination of the profunda, forming with them, as already described, the deep periarticular rete. Branches are given off to the patella, to the upper and outer part of the joint, to the bone, and to the contiguous muscles. (6) The superior internal articular (fig. 374) runs transversely inwards just above the inner head of the gastrocnemius, beneath the semi-membranosus, and, after perforating the tendon of the adductor magnus, enters the substance of the