THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 762 fcympani, while the posterior part of the organ is supplied directly. (See Glossopharyngeal Nerve.) At its superficial origin the facial nerve is placed immediately internal to the auditory nerve, the pars intermedia of Wrisberg intervening between them. As the facial nerve enters the internal auditory meatus, it is placed above the auditory nerve. It then parts company with the auditory nerve by entering the aqueduct of Fallopius. While traversing the aqueduct, it necessarily follows the windings of that canal. It passes at first outwards and forwards through the bone above and between the cochlea and the vestibule. It then makes a sharp bend, and runs backwards and slightly downwards, being separated from the tympanum in this part of its course only by a very thin scale of bone and by the mucous membrane lining the cavity. Lastly, it runs directly downwards, and emerges at the stylo- mastoid foramen. The portion of the nerve corresponding to the first bend is considerably thickened, and contains some nerve-cells; it is called the geniculate ganglion. The ganglionic substance forms a little conical cap on the bend of the nerve, the apex of the cone being directed towards the hiatus Fallopii. After its emergence from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the facial nerve runs downwards and forwards within the substance of the parotid gland, and terminates by dividing into two divisions—an upper or temporo-facial, and a lower or cervico- facial. The branches of the facial nerve may be classified into three sets:—(1) Branches given off within the aqueduct of Fallopius; (2) branches from the extracranial portion of the nerve before its terminal division; (3) branches of the temporo-facial and cervico-facial divisions. (1) Six branches are given off within the aqueduct: viz. three from the genicu- late ganglion, the great, the lesser, and the external superficial petrosal nerves; and three from the facial nerve in the descending part of its course—viz. the nerve to the stapedius, the chorda tympani, and a communicating twig to the pneumo- gastric. (a) The great superficial petrosal nerve receives a communicating filament from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, and leaves the aqueduct by passing through the hiatus Fallopii. It runs forwards and inwards in a groove on the petrous portion of the temporal bone under cover of the dura mater. It passes beneath the Gasserian ganglion, and pierces obliquely the cartilaginous substance which occupies the foramen lacerum medium; here it is joined by the great deep petrosal nerve, and forms, with the latter, the Vidian nerve as already described. (6) The lesser superficial petrosal nerve arises from the geniculate ganglion external to the preceding. It receives a relatively large communication from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. This communication is often considered to be the main root of the nerve (Scbwalbe and others). It leaves the aqueduct through a canal which is placed external to the hiatus Fallopii, and passes forwards for a short distance, lying in a groove in the bone, under cover of the dura mater. It escapes from the cranium through a small foramen situated between the foramen ovale and the foramen spinosum (canalis innominatus), and enters the otic ganglion. Occasionally it leaves the skull by traversing the suture between the great wing of the sphenoid and the petrous portion of the temporal bone, or by passing through the foramen ovale. (c) The external superficial petrosal is the smallest of the three petrosal nerves. It passes through a minute canal in the temporal bone immediately external to the point of emergence of the lesser superficial nerve. It then runs forwards, under cover of the dura mater, and joins the plexus of the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery close to the foramen spinosum. (d) The nerve to the stapedius is a minute twig which is given off by the facial nerve immediately below the second bend which the nerve forms within the aqueduct. It passes through a small canal leading from the aqueduct to the interior of the pyramid, and ends in the muscular substance of the stapedius. (e) The chorda tympani arises from the facial nerve about five millimetres above the stylo-mastoid foramen. It pursues a slightly recurrent course, upwards and forwards, through the iter chorda? posterius, and thus enters the tympanum.