426 THE MUSCLES peculiar in the fact that many of them decussate with one another on the way to their insertion in the skin; and they are all supplied by the seventh pair of cranial nerves. SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF NECK AND SCALP 1. PLATYSMA MYOIDES The platysma myoides—named from its flat expanse (platysma, a plate) and its similarity to muscle (myoides, like muscle, for the older anatomists considered it to be only a membrane)—is a quadrilateral sheet with a someAvhat toothed posterior border. Origin.—(1) The deep fascia of the upper part of the front of the chest and the shoulder, and the deep cervical fascia covering the sterno-mastoid. Insertion.—(1) The outer surface of the lower border of the body of the mandible, both on the same and the opposite side; (2) the deep surface of the skin from the corner of the mouth to the anterior border of the masseter muscle. Structure.—Arising by slender bundles from the fascia covering the pectoralis major and deltoid, in a line from the second costal cartilage to the tip of the acromial process, the pale muscular fibres at first converge slightly until they have crossed the clavicle. They then run parallel to one another upwards and forwards, receiving at the posterior border of the muscle small teeth from the deep fascia forming the sheath of the sterno-mastoid. The anterior fibres cross the middle line half-way between the hyoid bone and the symphysis, and are inserted into the lower border of the body of the mandible upon the opposite side of the neck. The greater part of the rest are inserted into the outer surface of the lower border of the mandible on the same side, but some are continued upwards and join with the depressor labii inferioris. Still further back, a few fibres pass upwards over the lower part of the masseter, and are inserted into the deep surface of the skin just outside the angle of the mouth. A strong bundle of these fibres which runs nearly transversely forwards to the corner of the mouth will be described later as the risorius muscle. In its whole extent, the muscle is closely connected with the deep surface of the skin. Nerve-supply.—The seventh cranial nerve, by means of the inframandibular branch of the cervico-facial division, which supplies it from beneath at a point a little below the angle of the mandible. Action.—(1) To draw downwards and outwards the lower lip, by means of the fibres which are continued upwards into the depressor labii inferioris. In trans- verse wounds below the mandible, the division of this muscle often impairs this movement. Duchenne has shown how important a part this depression of the lower lip discharges in the expression of horror or extreme surprise. (2) To draw outwards the soft parts of the side of the neck, so as to diminish pressure upon the veins during strong inspiratory efforts. As the muscle is arched in its passage from the clavicle to the mandible, with the concavity directed outwards, it is plain that its contraction will flatten the arch and tend to lift the skin and fascia; off the vessels, in exactly the opposite manner to that by which pressure is exerted when the concavity is upon the deep surface of a muscle. (3) It may assist feebly in depression of the mandible; and, if that be fixed, in flexion of the head and rotation towards the same side. This muscle covers all the front of the neck with the exception of a narrow triangular interval, the base of which is formed by the upper border of the sternum and the adjacent sterno-clavicular joints. Relations.—It lies immediately beneath the skin and superficial fascia, and in a lean neck the bundles are often distinctly visible through the skin, especially when an effort is made to depress the lower lip while the teeth are clenched. A thin band derived from the anterior part of the depressor anguli oris usually crosses it superficially beneath the chin (page 438). Upon its deep surface lie the deep cervical fascia, the external jugular vein, the glandulae concatenatse of the neck, the parotid and submaxillary glands, and the superficial branches of the