80 THE SKELETON bone, and the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate. The outer wall presents three recesses or meatuses. The superior meatus, the shortest, is situated between the superior and middle turbinal; it opens posteriorly; two orifices are in relation with it, namely, the orifice of the posterior ethmoidal cells and the spheno- palatine foramen. The middle meatus lies between the middle and inferior turbinals. It opens anteriorly and posteriorly. This meatus has two orifices com- municating with it—the opening of the antrum ( which is of very irregular shape) and the termination of the infundibulum. The inferior meatus is situated be- tween the inferior turbinal and the floor of the fossa; it presents near its anterior part, under cover of the turbinal, the terminal orifice of the nasal duct. This is the largest meatus, and, like the middle, opens anteriorly and posteriorly. The anterior narial orifices are bounded above by the lower border of the nasal bones, laterally by the maxilla?, and inferiorly by the premaxillary portions of the maxillae. In the recent state they are separated by the triangular cartilage; in the dried skull the most anterior inferior limit is the anterior nasal spine. The posterior narial orifices are bounded above by the alas of the vomer, the sphenoidal process of the palate bones, and the under surface of the sphenoid; externally by the internal pterygoid plates; and inferiorly by the posterior border of the horizontal plates of the palate bones. They are divided by the posterior border of the vomer and the posterior nasal spine. The nasal fossae communicate with all the more important fossae and sinuses of the skull. By means of the foramina in the roof they are in connection with the cranial cavity. The infundibulum brings each fossa in communication with the frontal and anterior ethmoidal cells. The posterior ethmoidal and the sphenoidal cells open into the superior meatuses. The spheno-palatine foramina connect them with the spheno-maxillary fossae, and an irregular orifice in each outer wall causes them to communicate with the antra. The nasal ducts connect them with the orbits, and the anterior palatine canals with the buccal cavity. The sutures visible in an anterior view of the skull are numerous, and for the most part unimportant:— The transverse suture extends from one external angular process to the other. The upper part of the suture is formed by the frontal bone; below are the malar, greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid, os planum, lachrymal, maxillary, and nasal bones. A portion of this complex suture, lying between the sphenoidal and frontal bones, appears in the anterior cranial fossa. Other and less important fissures are the internasal, naso-maxillary, inter-