THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 1000 represents the original attachment of the primitive median fold. All other lines of reflexion must be regarded as acquired or secondary. The meso-gaster.—It now remains to consider what becomes of the upper part of the simple primitive fold of peritoneum—the meso-gaster (m-g, fig. 593). The stomach enlarges, assumes more of its characteristic outline, and becomes less vertical. The liver may be regarded as an outgrowth from the duodenum. Its connec- tions with the great veins of the heart cause it to extend upwards and to the right side. As it grows it separates the layers of the highest part of the peritoneal fold, and from this membrane it receives a covering. The remains of the primitive mesial fold persist in the form of the falciform ligament (figs. 593, 595, and 599). The gastro-hepatic omentum.—The connection of the liver to the stomach is intimate, partly through the association of the great gland with the duodenum, and partly through certain blood-vessels which pass to the stomach and liver from the aorta. As the stomach enlarges, its duodenal end is drawn towards the right side; the viscus becomes transverse, the left wall becomes anterior, and the right poste- rior. The layer of peritoneum which stretches between the two organs is called the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum. The right or free margin of this omentum was Fig. 600.—Diagram to show the Formation of the Great Omentum. originally anterior, and the whole fold is directly derived, with but little dis- turbance of the membrane, from the upper part of the primitive meso-gaster (figs. 593, 595). The great omentum.—The formation and disposition of the great omentum are a little difficult to follow in the adult human species, and the student's concep- tion of the right character of this fold may be a little distorted by a study of certain diagrams which show the omentum from one point of view only. In mammals and in the human foetus the disposition of the great omentum is readily appreciated. This fold appears as a bulging of the meso-gaster forwards and to the left. When the stomach has assumed its final position, this bulging of the membrane is of course entirely in the direction forwards. At first the great omentum forms a shallow and wide-mouthed bag. Its appear- ance is such as could be produced in imagination if the fingers were to be pressed against the right (posterior) side of the meso-gaster, and were to force a bag of the yielding membrane before them. The pendulous bag-like projection could be seen from the left side of the meso-gaster and the wide opening into the bag from the right ( fig. 600). Here the bag is represented as cut away. An arrow passing from right to left, i. e., from behind forwards, shows the direction of the protrusion.