QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR FEMORIS 367 fourth lumbar nerves), by several branches which enter the internal surface of the muscle in the upper third of the thigh. Action and relations.—These will be considered with those of the two follow- ing muscles. (c, d) Vastus Internus and Crtjreus The vastus internus and crureus are so closely blended that it is better to describe their origins together before mentioning the way in which they may be separated. They have received their names, the former from its size and position; the latter from its intimate connexion with the whole of the front of the thigh bone, the term ' crus ' being often used synonymously with the femur. The blended muscle is a somewhat fusiform sheet which is so curved laterally as to form a cylinder embracing the whole of the front and sides of the shaft of the femur. Origin.—(1) The outer lip of the lower half of the linea asperaand its external bifurcation, together with the adjacent external intermuscular septum; (2) the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line and the spiral line of the femur; (3) the inner lip of the whole length of the linea aspera ancfits internal bifurcation, together with the adjacent part of the internal intermuscular septum, and the front of the tendon of the adductor magnus; (4) the greater part of the front and sides of the femur within the limits formed by the three preceding attachments and the origin of the vastus externus. Insertion.—(1) The front aspect of the upper border of the patella immedi- ately behind the insertion of the rectus femoris tendon; (2) the upper half of the inner border of the patella; (3) by a strong aponeurosis into the front of the inner tuberosity of the tibia and into the adjacent dee]) fascia of the leg. Structure.—The fibres of this large muscle arise fleshy from the surface of the femur and converge, from the outer side downwards, forwards, and inwards; from the front directly downwards; from the inner side downwards, forwards, and out- wards, upon the back and sides of a strong aponeurosis which covers the front of the muscle from about the middle of the thigh downwards. The fibres which arise from the tendon of the adductor magnus and the adjacent intermuscular septum form the lowest part of the thick muscular belly of the vastus internus, and are directed almost transversely outwards to get to their insertion upon the inner border of the patella. The substance of the muscle is arranged in layers which wrap round the front ancl sides of the femur; and between the attachment of these layers to the bone, longitudinal strips of bone may be found upon dissection without any muscular attachment. The deepest of these layers in the lower fourth of the thigh forms a separate sheet of muscular fibre, sometimes called the subcrureus, which is inserted into the upper reflexion of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Beneath this muscle is the bursa underneath the quadriceps, which in the adult communicates with the upper part of the knee-joint. A somewhat arbitrary division may be made between the vastus internus and crureus by dissecting at the lower third of the thigh in a line with the inner border of the patella. With a few touches of the scalpel a longitudinal separation may be made clear, which extends upwards to the lower part of the anterior intertro- chanteric line. The part of the muscle external to this line is the crureus, and the part internal the vastus internus. The ligamentum patellae may be looked upon as the common tendon of the quadriceps. It is a band of fibrous tissue about an inch (2-5 cm.) broad by one- quarter of an inch (6 mm.) thick, and two or three inches (5 to 7-5 cm.) in length, which is attached above to the apex and to the lower part of the posterior surface of the patella; and, after passing downwards and very slightly outwards, it is inserted into the anterior surface of the tubercle of the tibia. Attached to its sides are strong aponeuroses by which the lower fibres of the vastus externus and vastus internus and the ilio-tibial band are inserted into the tuberosities of the tibia, and which blend on their deep surface with the lower part of the capsule of the knee-joint. Nerve-supply.—Numerous branches from the anterior crural are distributed to the upper half of the front of the crureus muscle and to the inner surface of the vastus internus at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh, the