MENINGES 673 continuous with the dura mater of the spinal cord. The periosteal layer clothes the bone and is thickened into a ligamentous band, the occipito-cervical or cervico- basilar ligament (page 188), which passes through the foramen magnum to join the posterior common ligament of the vertebra? and to gain attachment to the body of the axis. Thus a connection is established between the dura mater and the periosteum of the vertebras. At the back and sides of the foramen magnum the dura mater does not split into periosteal and supporting layers until it reaches the margin of that opening, where its layers divaricate, the one to become continuous with the external periosteum of the skull, the other to be continued into the spinal dura mater. In the middle fossa of the skull there is a separation of the periosteal and supporting layers to form the cavernous sinus; on the inner side of this the sup- porting layer is moulded round the pituitary body and then folds on itself to form the diaphragma sellse which roofs in the pituitary fossa. External to the cavernous sinus the two layers remain separate for some distance, forming a space (Meckel's space), which encloses the Gasserian ganglion. The outer surface of Fig. 403.—Coronal Section of the Head passing through the Mastoid Process. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) the dura mater is covered with a number of arteries, which ramify between it and the inner table of the skull. These vessels break up into small twigs which penetrate the bone. The term meningeal, applied to the arteries in question, is somewhat misleading, inasmuch as they do not supply any of the meninges, except the dura mater, being chiefly destined for the nutrition of the cranial bones. These small vessels, together with a number of fibrous retinacula, are torn across when the dura mater is forcibly detached from the bone, and give rise to the rough appearance which is presented by its outer surface. An examination under water will, however, reveal smooth spots interspersed among the bundles of ruptured vessels; these are subperiosteal lymph-spaces. Meningeal arteries.—The middle or great meningeal artery, which enters the middle cranial fossa through the fbrarnen_ spinosum, supplies the dura mater which lines the vault of the cranium. _ In addition to this there are meningeal arteries, mostly of small size, which are limited in their distribution to the base of the cranium. In the anterior cranial fossa there are anterior meningeal branches of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries, which enter the cranium through the anterior and posterior internal orbital canals ; also twigs from the middle meningeal