THE VEINS 638 of that vessel, it leaves the artery and runs upwards on the psoas to the left of the aorta and behind the peritoneum. On approaching the pancreas it turns slightly inwards, and passes obliquely behind that gland to join the splenic vein just before the latter unites with the superior mesenteric to form the vena porta. THE VEINS OF THE PELVIS The veins of the pelvis, with the exception of the middle sacral vein, which terminates in the left common iliac vein, open into the internal iliac vein. Under the head of pelvic veins are included all of those corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac artery except the hypogastric branch, although some of these veins do not return the blood from the pelvic walls or viscera. The internal iliac vein is formed by the confluence of the veins (except the umbilical) corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac artery. It varies considerably in length, but is usually quite a short trunk, extending from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen to the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, where it joins the external iliac to form the common iliac vein. It lies behind and a little internal to the internal iliac artery. It contains no valve. Tributaries.—The internal iliac vein receives directly or indirectly the following branches: the gluteal, ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, obturator, sciatic, pudic, dorsal penile, prostatic, vesical, and hemorrhoidal veins. The single umbilical vein—the vein corresponding to the right and left hypogastric arteries and their continuation, the umbilical arteries—does not enter the pelvis, but, leaving the umbilical arteries at the navel, passes along the falciform ligament to the liver. After birth it is converted into a fibrous cord. (See Portal Vein, page 634.) The gluteal veins accompany the gluteal artery, and, passing through the upper part of the great sciatic foramen, open into the internal iliac vein near its termination, either separately or as a single trunk. The ilio-lumbar veins open into the internal iliac a little higher than the gluteal. At times they join the common iliac vein. The lateral sacral veins join the gluteal or the internal iliac at or about the same situation as the gluteal. They form with the middle sacral veins a plexus in front of the sacrum, and receive branches from the sacral canal. The obturator vein, which lies below the obturator artery as it crosses the side of the pelvis, opens into the front of the internal iliac vein a little below the gluteal. Its branches correspond to those of the artery. The sciatic veins accompany the sciatic artery, and, as a rule, unite to form a single trunk before joining the internal iliac a little below the obturator vein. All the above veins so closely follow the ramifications of their respective arteries, that no further special description of them is required. They all contain valves. The pudic vein does not begin as the dorsal vein of the penis, but issues from the corpus cavernosum with the artery of that body. It communicates, however, with the dorsal vein before the latter pierces the triangular ligament. In the rest of its course it runs with the pudic artery, receiving tributaries corresponding to the branches of that vessel. It terminates in the lower part of the internal iliac vein. The dorsal vein of the penis begins in a plexus around the corona glanclis, then runs along the centre of the dorsum of the penis between the two pudic arteries. In this course it receives large tributaries from the interior of the organ, which, emerging for the most part between the corpus spongiosum and corpus cavernosum, wind obliquely over the outer surface of the latter structure to the dorsum of the penis to end in the dorsal vein. At the root of the penis the dorsal vein leaves the dorsal arteries, and, passing straight backwards between the two layers of the suspensory ligament, and then through either the subpubic ligament or the upper part of the triangular ligament of the pelvis (fig. 371) bifurcates, each branch passing backwards and downwards to the prostatico-vesical plexus of veins. At times the dorsal vein begins as two branches, which run between the dorsal arteries and only unite to form a single trunk about an inch and a half from the