THE LARYNX 909 muscle; internally it is covered by mucous membrane. The upper portion is con- tiguous to the thyro-arytenoid, with which it is occasionally blended. It is supplied by the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The thyro-arytenoid muscle, which is placed above the foregoing, arises broadly from the lower two-thirds of the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage close to its retiring angle, and slightly from the posterior surface of the crico-thy- roid membrane. Narrowing as it passes outwards and backwards, it is inserted into the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage, and also into its base close to Fig. 531.—Scheme Showing Action of Thyro-arytenoid drawing the Vocal Cords and Vocal Processes from II to I. (Modified from Stirling.) the attachment of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle. Some few of its fibres pass onwards and become continuous with the oblique fibres of the arytenoid muscle. The lower portion of the muscle lies parallel to and blends with the outer surface of the vocal cord. The upper and thinner portion is placed immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and overlies the ventricle and laryngeal pouch. These muscles by rotating the arytenoid cartilages draw the vocal processes downwards and inwards, and thus approximate the vocal cords. By pulling forward the cartilages, they relax the cord as a whole. According to some authorities, the fibres attached to the outer border of the vocal cord act upon it by Fig. 532.—Scheme showing Action of Arytenoideus drawing Arytenoid Cartilage from Neutral Position I to II. (Modified from Stirling.) modifying its elasticity, tightening a portion in front and relaxing the remainder, in this somewhat resembling the stop-action of the finger on a violin string. The fibres lying near the true vocal cords, in the angle between the middle and lower sections of the laryngeal cavity, are frequently described as a separate portion called the thyro-arytenoideus internus; they form a triangular prismatic bundle, attached anteriorly to the thyroid cartilage and the anterior part of the true vocal cord, and posteriorly to the arytenoid cartilage in the neighbourhood of the vocal process. The remainder of the muscle, the thyro-arytenoideus externus, is a