253 THE KNEE-JOINT The ilio-femoral band also prevents the tendency of the trunk to roll backwards on the thigh bones in the erect posture, and so does away with the necessity for muscular power for this purpose; it is put on stretch in the stand-at-ease position. The ligamentum teres is of little use in resisting violence or in imparting strength to the joint, It assists in checking rotation outwards, and adduction during flexion. A ligament can only be of use when it is tight, and it Avas found by trephining the •Fig. 244.—Ligamentum Teres, drawn tight in Flexion combined with Rotation outwards and adduction. bottom of the acetabulum, removing the fat, and threading a piece of whipcord round the ligament, that the ligament was slack in simple flexion, and very loose in complete extension, but that its most slack condition was in abduction. It is tightest in flexion combined with adduction and rotation outwards, and almost as tight in flexion with outward rotation alone, and in flexion with adduction alone (figs. 242 to 244). 2. THE KNEE-JOINT Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. The knee is the largest joint in the body. It is rightly described as a gingly- moid joint, but there is also an arthrodial element; for, in addition to flexion and extension, there is a sliding backwards and forwards of the tibia upon the femoral condyles, as well as slight rotation round a vertical axis. It is one of the most superficial, and, as far as adaptation of the bony surfaces goes, one of the weakest joints, for in no position are the bones in more than partial contact. Its strength lies in the number, size, and arrangement of the ligaments, and the powerful muscles and fascial expansions which pass over the articulation and enable it to withstand the leverage of the two longest bones in the body. It may be said to consist of two articulations with a common synovial membrane—the patello- femoral and the tibio-femoral, the latter being double. It is composed of the condyles and trochlear surface of the femur, the tuberosities of the tibia, and the patella, united by the following ligaments, which may be divided into an external and internal set:—