972 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION valves unite and are prolonged at either end as a ridge partially surrounding the intestine (fraena). Villi cover that surface of the folds looking towards the ileum. The surface towards the large intestine is free from villi. In the formation of this valve the longitudinal muscular fibres pass across from the ileum to the large intestine without dipping down between the two layers of each fold. The circular muscular fibres, on the other hand, are contained between the layer of the mucous membrane and submucous tissue which form them. The colon.—In the adult the ascending and the descending parts of the colon are placed vertically, while the direction of the transverse colon is practically horizontal. The average length in the adult of the ascending colon (as measured from the tip of the caecum to the hepatic flexure) is eight inches, and of the descending colon (as measured from the splenic bend to the commencement of the sigmoid loop) is eight and a half inches. The descending colon is the part of the large bowel that is least liable to variation. It is the only part of the gut except the duodenum that retains its original position as a portion of the great primary vertical loop. The transverse colon, on the other hand, is liable to considerable variation in length, position, and arrangement. Its average length is twenty inches in the adult. It has been found to vary in adults from twelve to thirty- three inches. The ascending colon.—The ascending colon extends from the caecum to the inferior surface of the liver external to the gall bladder, forming there the hepatic flexure. It is covered by peritoneum in front and at the side, but in a certain proportion of cases (twenty-six per cent, in one.hundred dissections) this part of the large intestine is connected with the posterior wall of the abdomen by a meso- colon, that is to say, it is quite surrounded by peritoneum. Connected with the ascending colon is sometimes found a fold of peritoneum, extending from the right side of the gut to the parietes at a little above the level of the highest part of the iliac crest. It forms a shelf upon which rests the extreme right margin of the liver. It might be called the sustentaculum hepatis. The ascending colon is in relation behind with the right kidney, second portion of the duodenum, and quadratus lumborum. In front are some of the coils of the ileum (fig. 577). The transverse colon.—The transverse colon, smaller in diameter than the ascending, extends from the under surface of the liver to the spleen. Being longer than a straight line between these two points, it has to describe an arch with its con-