THE INTERPHALANGEAL 245 The lateral ligaments are short, strong bands of fibres, which radiate from depressions on either side of the head of the metacarpal bone to the base of the first phalanx and sesamoid bones. As they descend they pass a little forwards, so that the greater number are inserted in front of the centre of motion. The posterior ligament consists of scattered fibres which pass across the joint from one lateral ligament to the other, completing the capsule and protecting the synovial sac. The sesamoid bones are two in number, situated on either side of the middle line, and connected together by strong transverse fibres which form the floor of the groove for the long flexor tendon ; they are connected with the base of the phalanx and head of the metacarpal bone by strong fibres. Anteriorly they give attach- ment to the short muscles of the thumb, and posteriorly are smooth for the purpose of gliding over the facets. The lateral ligaments are partly inserted into their sides. The arteries and nerves come from the digital branches of the thumb. The movements are chiefly flexion and extension, very little lateral movement being permitted, and that only when the joint is slightly bent. Thus this joint more nearly approaches the simple hinge character than the corresponding articu- lations of the fingers. The thumb gets its freedom of motion at the carpo- metacarpal joint; the fingers get theirs at the metacarpophalangeal, but they are not endowed with so much freedom as the thumb enjoys. 11. THE INTERPHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. The ligaments which unite the phalanges of the thumb and of the fingers are:— Glenoid. Lateral. The glenoid ligament (fig. 236), sometimes called the sesamoid body, is very firmly connected with the base of the distal bone, and loosely, by means of fibro- areolar tissue, with the head of the proximal one. It blends with the lateral ligaments at the sides, and over it pass the flexor tendons. Occasionally a sesamoid bone is developed in the cartilage of the interphalangeal joint of the thumb. The lateral ligaments (figs. 235 and 236) are strong bands which are attached to the rough depressions on the sides of the upper phalanx, and to the projecting lateral margins of the lower phalanx of each joint. They are tense in every position, and entirely prevent any lateral motion; they are connected posteriorly with the expansion of the extensor tendon. Posteriorly (fig. 236) the joint is covered in by the deep surface of the extensor tendon, and a little fibro-areolar tissue extends from the tendon, and thickens the posterior portion of the synovial sac, completing the capsule. The synovial membrane is loose and ample, and extends upwards a little way along the shaft of the proximal bone. The arteries and nerves come from their respective digital branches. The movements are limited to flexion and extension. Flexion is more free, and can be continued till one bone is at a right angle to the other, and is most free at the junction of the first and second bones; the second phalanx can be flexed on the first through 110° to 115° when the latter is not flexed. The greater freedom of flexion is due to the greater extent of the articular surface in front of the heads of the proximal bones, and to the direction of the fibres of the lateral ligaments, which pass a little forwards to their insertion into the distal bone.