746 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM SECOND OR OPTIC NERVES The optic nerves appear at the base of the brain as a pair of round white cords, which arise from the optic chiasrna. From the posterior aspect of the latter structure, two somewhat similar cords, the optic tracts, pass backwards and out- wards. Each optic nerve is continuous, through the chiasrna, with both optic tracts. It will be convenient to trace first the central connections of the optic nerves through the optic tracts, and afterwards to follow the nerves forwards from the optic chiasrna to the eyeball. The optic chiasrna or commissure rests upon the optic groove, on the superior surface of the sphenoid bone. It is in relation above with the third ventricle, being separated only by a thin layer of grey matter from that cavity. The internal car- otid arteries are close to its outer sides, behind it is the tuber cinereum, and in front the lamina cinerea, the anterior cerebral and the anterior communicating arteries. Constitution of the optic chiasrna.—Three sets of fibres are described in the optic chiasrna, namely: (a) Fibres from one optic tract to the optic nerve of the same side; (6) fibres from one optic tract to the optic nerve of the opposite side; (c) commissural fibres passing from one optic tract to its fellow of the opposite side, (a) The uncrossed fibres proceed from the lateral or temporal half of the retina of the same side. They occupy the outer part of the chiasrna. (b) The crossed fibres, which form the largest constituent of the chiasrna, are derived from the mesial or nasal half of the retina, and pass into the optic tract of the opposite side. (c) The commissural fibres occupy the back part of the chiasrna. They have nothing to do with vision. Two sets are described under the names of Gudden's and Meynert's commissures. The optic tract passes backwards and outwards between the outer side of the tuber cinereum and the anterior perforated space, then it passes under cover of the temporal lobe, winding around the cms cerebri. As it applies itself to the latter, it adheres to it, and becomes flattened from above downwards. It next inclines upwards, and divides into an external and an internal root. These roots proceed towards the external and internal geniculate bodies, respectively. The internal root contains the fibres of Gudden's commissure. A portion of the external root becomes connected with the nerve-cells in the external geniculate body; another part enters the pulvinar of the optic thalamus, while a third part passes in the superior brachium to the superior quadrigeminal body of the same side. The fibres of the optic nerve terminate therefore amidst or in the ganglion cells of the external geniculate body, the pulvinar of the optic thalamus, and the superior quadrigeminal body; hence, these three bodies have been said to contain the nuclei of origin of the optic nerve. Other fibres, however, collectively termed the optic radiation, emerge from these three bodies, and pass through the most I posterior part of the inner capsule to the occipital lobe, and thus the cortical origin of the optic nerve is established. The exact area of the cortex devoted to the sense of sight is still a matter of dispute, but the weight of evidence seems to be in favour of the cuneus being the cerebral centre of vision. Other roots of the optic nerve are described, of which the direct cortical root (Wernicke and Gudden) is perhaps the most important. This root leaves the optic tract as the latter is crossing the crus cerebri, and runs upwards in the inner capsule to join the optic radiation. Another root is described which passes from the optic chiasrna into the central grey matter of the third ventricle. The descending root (Stilling) enters the crus and is variously distributed; a portion of its fibres become connected with the oculo-motor nucleus, and thus a path for reflex movements of the iris and ciliary muscle is probably established. Gudden's commissure.—Fibres emerge from the posterior quadrigeminal body, constituting its brachium, and enter the internal geniculate body. After partial interruption in the nerve-cells of the latter, these fibres are continued into the optic tract and pass across to the opposite side, forming the back part of the optic chiasrna, to enter into a similar relation to the internal geniculate and posterior quadrigeminal bodies of the opposite side.