THE (ESOPHAGUS 953 interval between the trachea and oesophagus. The left nerve, as already described, lies in front of the tube, and the right at some little distance from it. In the thorax the oesophagus descends through the superior and the posterior mediastina. In the superior mediastinum its anterior relations are the trachea, with the deep cardiac plexus in front of its bifurcation, the left subclavian and carotid arteries crossing its left border obliquely, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve and the arch of the aorta. To the left are the left carotid and subclavian arteries, the end of the arch of the aorta, and the left pleural sac. To the right it is in relation with the right vagus nerve and the right pleural sac. Behind, it rests upon the vertebral column, the left longus colli muscle, and it overlaps the thoracic duct. As it enters the posterior mediastinum it passes behind the left bronchus and the right pulmonary artery, resting posteriorly on the vertebral column and thoracic duct. In the posterior mediastinum it has in front of it the pericardium, which separates it from the left auricle of the heart and a portion of diaphragm; it rests upon the vertebral column, the vena azygos minor, superior and inferior, the right aortic intercostal arteries, and the thoracic duct. To the right is the right pleural sac, the vena azygos major, which it partly overlaps, and below the thoracic duct. To the left in the upper part is the descending thoracic aorta, and below the left pleural sac is separated from it by a little loose areolar tissue. It is surrounded by the oesophageal plexus formed by the vagi nerves, and as they emerge from the lower part of the plexus the left vagus lies in front of the oesophagus and the right vagus behind. In the abdomen the oesophagus lies in the epigastric region. In front of it is the left lobe of the liver. To the left the left lobe of the liver and the fundus of the stomach. To the right the Spigelian lobe of the liver, and behind the decussating fibres of the crura of the diaphragm and the left inferior phrenic artery. The arterial supply of the oesophagus is derived from the inferior thyroid, the oesophageal branches of the aorta, the intercostals, the inferior phrenic, and the coronary arteries. The veins accompany the arteries. The nerves are filaments of the spinal accessory which pass to it by the vagus, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves. After death the gullet is somewhat flattened from before backwards, but it is more rounded during life. It is closed except during the passage of food, etc. Structure.—The wall of the oesophagus is composed of three coats—muscular, submucous, and mucous. It is surrounded with elastic cellular tissue, loosely connecting it with the neighbouring structures, and freely permitting its distension. The muscular coat is thick, red, and consists of striped muscular fibres in its upper third or more. It is made up of two distinct layers. The longitudinal fibres commence as three flattened bands: a strong anterior arising from the ridge on the back of the cricoid cartilage (fig. 526), and two lateral bands which blend with the fibres of the pharynx. These all unite into a continu- ous layer which passes below into the muscular coat of the stomach. Several accessory bands have been described, connected with the trachea, left bronchus, pericardium, and left pleura. The circular fibres are continuous above with the inferior constrictor, and below with the oblique fibres of the stomach; they form a uniform layer which becomes somewhat obliquely disposed towards the middle of the gullet. The submucous coat loosely connects the inner mucous and outer muscular coats. It is the seat of numerous racemose glands whose ducts open on the surface of the mucous membrane. The mucous coat is thick, reddish above, paler below, and deeply folded longitudinally. It presents numerous papillae and contains racemose glands. It is covered by a stratified squamous epithelium.