842 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE a clear fluid, the aqueous humour. Almost the whole anterior surface of the iris is visible, its extreme periphery only being concealed by sclerotic. In colour the iris varies greatly in different individuals. Near its centre (really a little up and in ) a round hole exists in the iris, the black pupil, whose size varies considerably in different eyes, and in the same eye according to temporary conditions, such as exposure to light, etc. In examining the surface-markings of the living iris, one of dark colour is to be preferred. Focal illumination will be found useful, for which purpose a second convex lens will be required. On the surface of the iris we see a number of ridges running more or less radially; adjoining ones occasionally unite and interlace to some extent, so as to leave large depressed meshes at intervals. The ridges coming from the edge of the pupil, and those coming from the more peripheral part of the iris, meet in a zigzag elevated ridge, concentric with the pupil, and by this ridge the iris is roughly marked off into two unequal zones—an outer or ciliary, and an inner or pupillary —of which the inner is much the narrower. The border next the pupil is edged with small, roundish, bead-like prominences of a dark brown colour, separated from one another by depressions, so that it presents a finely notched contour. Not infrequently, in a light-coloured iris, we may see the sphincter muscle through the Fig. 473.—Left Fundus Oculi, as seen by direct Ophthalmoscopic Method. anterior layers, in the form of a ring about one millimetre in breadth around the pupil. The ciliary zone may be described as consisting of three parts: (a) A comparatively smooth zone next the zigzag ridge; (b) a middle area, showing concentric but incompletely circular furrows; (c) a small peripheral darker part, presenting a sieve-like appearance. On the floor of the large depressed meshes, or crypts, parallel radial vessels can be traced, belonging to the iris-stroma. The zigzag line mentioned above corresponds to the position of the circulus arteriosus minor. Occasionally, especially in a light iris, superficial pigment spots of a rusty brown colour occur. If we are examining the living eye, the ophthalmoscope should now be used, so as to gain a view of the fundus. We can thus study the termination of the optic nerve, the distribution of the larger retinal vessels, etc. The general red reflex obtained from the fundus is due to the blood in a capil- lary network f chorio-capillaris) situated in the inner part of the choroid. To the nasal side of the centre of the fundus is a paler area of a disc shape corre- sponding to the intraocular end of the optic nerve, and known as the optic disc, or papilla. This optic disc is nearly circular, but usually slightly oval vertically; it is of a light orange-pink colour, with a characteristic superficial translucenev; its outer third segment is paler than the rest from the nerve-fibres and capillaries here being fewer. About its centre we often observe a well-marked whitish depres- sion or gap, formed by the dispersion of the nerve-fibres as they spread out over the fundus; at the bottom of this depression a sieve-like appearance may be seen, due to the presence of the lamina cribrosa, which consists of a white fibrous PIGMENT AT OUTER BORDER OF DISC FOVEA CENTRALIS LAMINA CRIBROSA