RIGHT AXD LEFT CORONARY 473 supplying the structures between which it runs and the auricular septum; (b) a preventricular branch (fig. 326), which runs down the front of the right ventricle, supplying its walls; (c) a right marginal branch (fig. 326), which courses down the right margin of the right ventricle; (d) a posterior interventricular branch, or the continuation of the coronary trunk, which passes down the posterior inter- ventricular groove, giving twigs to each ventricle and the interventricular septum, and anastomosing at the apex of the heart with the anterior interventricular branch of the left coronary artery; and (e) the transverse branch, which runs in the left auriculo-ventricular groove to anastomose with the terminal branch of the left coronary (fig. 326). THE LEFT CORONARY ARTERY The left coronary artery (figs. 321 and 326), a little larger than the right, arises from the left anterior sinus of Valsalva, and, passing forwards and to the left between the pulmonary artery and left auricular appendix, courses round the heart Fig. 326.—Scheme of the Coronary Arteries. (Walsham.) in the left auriculo-ventricular groove to anastomose with the transverse branch of the right coronary artery. It gives off the following branches: (a) A left auricular branch, which supplies the left auricle, the pulmonary artery, and the commence- ment of the aorta. (6) A large anterior interventricular branch, which is larger than the continuation of the vessel between the auricle and ventricle, and is regarded by some as the main trunk of the left coronary artery. It courses down- wards in the anterior interventricular groove to the apex of the heart, where it forms a slight anastomosis with the posterior interventricular branch of the right vessel (fig. 324). It supplies both ventricles and the interventricular septum, (c) A left marginal branch, which runs down the left margin of the heart, supplying branches to the walls of the ventricle, (d) The terminal branch, the continuation of the vessel, anastomoses with the transverse branch of the right coronary artery. Variations in the Coronary Arteries (a) They may arise as a common trunk, (b) They may both arise from the same sinus of Valsalva. (c) The interventricular and terminal branches of the left coronary may arise separately from the sinus of Valsalva. (d) One coronary artery may be larger than usual;