884 THE TONGUE By ARTHUR HENSMAN, F.R.C.S. Revised fob Second Edition by ARTHUR ROBINSON, M.D., M.R.C.S. LECTURER ON ANATOMY IN THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL MEDICAL SCHOOL; EXAMINER IN ANATOMY FOR THE CONJOINT BOARD OP ENGLAND The tongue is a freely movable, highly sensitive, and muscular organ, and is endowed with the special sense of taste. It participates, moreover, in the function of speech, and plays an important part in mastication and deglutition. Its upper surface, or dorsum, with its sides and tip, are free, whilst its base is attached by muscles to the hyoid bone and lower jaw. Folds of mucous membrane loosely connect it with the epiglottis and soft palate, as well as with the symphysis of the lower jaw. From beneath its rounded borders the mucous covering becomes continuous with the inner surface of the gums. The anterior two-thirds of the tongue occupies the floor of the mouth, lying between the halves of the lower jaw, with its convex dorsum overarched by the vault of the palate, and its sides and tip in contact with the teeth and gums. The posterior third of the dorsum, situ- ated in the anterior wall of the pharynx, forms a rounded surface overhanging the epiglottis. The mucous membrane, which is really a modified skin, covers the whole of the free surface of the tongue. It forms three folds: the glosso-epiglottidean in connection with the epiglottis; and on each side of the median fold—fraenum epiglottidis—is formed the glosso-epiglottidean pouch, or vallecula, which is bounded externally by the more rounded lateral folds. On each side of the tongue, near the junction of the posterior and middle third, the membrane ascends to form the anterior pillars of the fauces, and in front beneath the tip it forms the sharp fold of the fraenum linguae (fig. 509), which extends forwards to the back of the symphysis. A slight longitudinal groove, the median raphe, divides the dorsum of the tongue along its anterior two-thirds. It ends posteriorly near a small foramen, the foramen caecum, which represents the upper termination of the thyro-glossal duct. The orifice, however, is not at all constant in the adult tongue, although occasionally it is present and may sometimes lead into the still patent duct which tunnels the tongue as far as the body of the hyoid bone. The course of the obliterated duct may in many cases be demonstrated. The foramen caecum is easily seen in the foetus at the angle of meeting of two shallow grooves which form the V-shaped line behind the circumvallate papillae. These grooves indicate the line of junction of the anterior and posterior portions of the tongue, and are faintly visible in the adult organ. The papillae crowd the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum as well as the sides and tip of the tongue, but at the back they are small and hidden by the epithelial coating. Of the papilla? three chief kinds can be distinguished. The circumvallate or calyciform papillae are the largest, but they are few in number, varying from seven or eight to twelve, and they form a V-shaped line ml front of and parallel with the grooves already mentioned.