500 THE ARTERIES times of large size, and takes the chief share in the formation of the lachrymal artery, (ii) Muscular branches, distributed chiefly to the external rectus, (iii) Malar branches—small twigs, which pass through the malar canals, and anasto- mose with the orbital branch of tbe middle temporal, and with the transverse facial on the cheek, (iv) Palpebral branches, which are distributed to the upper and lower eyelids and to the conjunctiva, (v) Ciliary. See Ciliary Arteries, page 501. (h) The Supraorbital Artery The supraorbital artery usually arises from the ophthalmic as the latter vessel is about to cross over the optic nerve. Passing upwards to the inner side of the superior rectus and levator palpebrae, it runs along the upper surface of the latter muscle with the frontal nerve in the orbital fat, but beneath the periosteum to the supraorbital notch. On emerging on the forehead beneath the orbicularis palpe- Fig. 339.—The Left Ophthalmic Arteey and Vein. Internal carotid artery brarum, it divides into a superficial and deep branch; the former ramifies between the skin and occipito-frontalis, the latter between the occipito-frontalis and the pericranium. Both branches anastomose with the anterior branches of the superficial temporal, the angular branch of the facial, and the transverse facial artery. The branches of the supraorbital are:—(i) Periosteal, to the periosteum of the roof of the orbit; (ii) muscular, to the levator palpebree and superior rectus; (iii) diploic, given off as the artery is passing through the supraorbital notch and entering a minute foramen at the bottom of the notch is distributed to the diploe and frontal sinuses; (iv) trochlear, to the pulley of the superior oblique; (v) palpebral, to the upper eyelid. (c) The Central Artery of the Retina The arteria centralis retinae, a small but constant branch, comes off from the ophthalmic close to the optic foramen, and, perforating the optic nerve about a quarter of an inch behind the globe, runs forwards in the substance of the nerve to the eyeball, supplying the retina. The fact that this artery penetrates the substance of the optic nerve is of developmental interest, as it indicates the spot where the