403 RECTUS ABDOMINIS Insertion.—(1) The anterior surface of the tip of the fifth rih; (2) the front of the costal cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs; sometimes also (3) the anterior surface of the base of the ensiform cartilage near its outer border. Structure.—The inner head arises tendinous from the other side of the middle line, decussating with its fellow; the outer and stronger head arises by a shorter tendon, and is soon joined by the inner head. About an inch (2-5 cm.) above the pubes, a fleshy mass is formed, which expands as it ascends into a broad sheet, which below the umbilicus lies close to its fellow of the opposite side. Above, the two muscles are separated by an interval of at least a quarter of an inch (6 mm.). The insertion, which is by short tendinous fibres, is three or four times the width of the origin. The muscle is also curved considerably forwards to correspond with the convexity of the front wall of the abdomen. At certain intervals, transverse bands of fibrous tissue extend in an irregular zigzag manner across the muscle, especially upon its anterior surface. These are called the lineae transversse, and the transverse depressions which they produce are usually to be seen and felt through the skin. They are generally three or four in number on either side. One is situated opposite the umbilicus; the second opposite the tip of the ensiform cartilage; the third half way between these points; and a fourth is sometimes present which extends incompletely across the muscle at some distance below the umbilicus. They are firmly connected with the anterior layer of the strong sheath of the muscle, which will afterwards be described. They do not extend through the whole thickness of the muscle, being deficient behind. Nerve-supply.—From the terminal filaments of the anterior branches of the six lower thoracic nerves which enter the muscle on its posterior surface near the outer border; and from the ilio-hypogastric branch of the lumbar plexus. Action.—(1) By the tendency of the curved bands of the muscle to become straight during contraction, all the viscera contained in its concavity are compressed. It will, therefore, help in defecation, micturition, and parturition; also in expira- tion, and especially in strong expiratory efforts, such as coughing and sneezing. (2) By drawing down the ensiform cartilage and the anterior extremities of the middle ribs, it flexes the thorax upon the pelvis, and at the same time acts as a flexor of the thoracic and lumbar portions of the spine. Acting less strongly, it fixes the sternum, so that the sterno-mastoids by their contraction may flex the head, e.g. in rising from the recumbent position. (3) Taking its fixed point from above, it will draw upwards the pubic portion of the pelvis, and so flex the pelvis upon the thorax, as when the lower part of the body is drawn up towards the chest in climbing. The lineae transversae, which are the remnants of the septa which divide the muscular structure at intervals in the lower vertebrates, and which in the crocodile form the abdominal ribs, have had various uses assigned to them. In the first place, they will tend to keep the muscular fibres in their proper place, and prevent them from being separated so as to allow of ventral hernia. Secondly, they will enable the muscle to act not only upon the points of bone which form its direct attachment, but, by means of their connection with the sheath of the muscle and the aponeuroses of which it is formed, they will in some measure diffuse the action of the muscle over the lower ribs and the crest of the ilium. Thirdly, they will enable one part of the muscle to act independently, as for example when the lower part exercises some pressure upon the bladder in micturition. Fourthly, they prevent extensive separation when the muscle is injured. On account of the severe strain to which the muscle is exposed, it is sometimes ruptured. If the muscular fibres extended without interruption from the pubes to the ensiform cartilage, such a rupture would occasion a much wider separation, and consequently much greater disablement than is now found to be the case. Relations.—Superficially, the front layer of its sheath above, and below the pyramidalis; deeply, it is separated from the transversalis fascia and peritoneum in the greater part of its course by the posterior layer of its sheath; in its lower fourth it is in contact with the transversalis fascia; and above, it lies on the carti- lages of the fifth to the ninth ribs, and covers the intercostal muscles which lie between them. The deep epigastric artery ascends behind the muscle to join with the superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary.