THE MUSCLES At this place a small bursa separates the tendon from the deep transverse ligament, and the lateral ligament of the metacarpophalangeal joint. Nerve-supply.—From the inner cord of the brachial plexus (through the eighth cervical nerve), by small filaments which, coming from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, pass into the upper part of the muscles upon their anterior aspect. Action and relations.— Vide infra. Of the four dorsal interossei, the first forms a thick triangular sheet, while the other three are fusiform and prismatic. Origin.—From the five metacarpal bones, each muscle arising from the adjacent surfaces of the two bones bounding an interosseous space. Insertion.—(1) Into the sides of the aponeuroses of the extensor communis digitorum tendons; and (2) the adjacent parts of the first phalanges. Structure.—The fleshy fibres arise from the adjacent surfaces of the metacarpal bones in bipenniform fashion, and converge upon a tendon which, beginning about the middle of the interosseous space, becomes free just above the metacarpo- Fig. 282.—The Dorsal Interossei. phalangeal joint, and then passes beneath the deep transverse ligament to its insertion into the side of the aponeurosis, and into the upper part of the border of the first phalanx. The first muscle is thick and by far the strongest, and forms with the adductor pollicis the fleshy web which fills the interval between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and the index finger. Its origin from the first metacarpal bone occupies the upper half of that bone, while that from the second is more extensive. It is inserted into the radial side of the aponeurosis upon the back of the first phalanx as well as into the upper part of the outer border of that bone. The second is inserted into the radial side of the aponeurosis upon the first phalanx of the middle finger and into the adjacent bone. The third into the ulnar side of the aponeurosis upon the back of the first phalanx of the middle finger and into the adjacent bone. The fourth into the ulnar side of the aponeurosis upon the back of the ring finger and the adjacent bone. Of the two heads of each of these muscles, the one arising from the metacarpal bone of the finger into which the muscle is inserted, is always the larger.