646 THE VEINS afterwards along the back of the calf, in company with the external or short saphenous nerve, to about the lower part of the centre of the popliteal space, where it perforates the deep fascia, and, sinking between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, opens into the popliteal vein. As it passes up the calf between the superficial and deep fascia, it receives numerous cutaneous veins from the heel, and the outer side and back part of the leg, and communicates at intervals, through transverse or intermuscular branches, with the deep veins (venae comites) accom- panying the peroneal artery. Just before perforating the deep fascia, it receives a large descending branch from the lower and back part of the thigh, and sends upwards and inwards a communicating vein to the long saphenous. A small offshoot from the inferior sural branch of the popliteal artery accompanies the vein for a short distance down the back of the calf. The short saphenous vein contains from nine to twelve valves. II. THE DEEP VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The deep veins of the lower extremity accompany the arteries, and have received corresponding names. From the foot to the knee there are,two veins to each artery. These veins run on either side of the corresponding artery, and communicate at frequent intervals with each other across it. They are known as the vense comites. From the knee upwards there is a single vein to each artery, except at the back of the thigh and in the gluteal region, where there are com- monly two. The veins of the foot and leg.—The vena; comites of the internal and ex- ternal plantar arteries, after receiving small veins corresponding to the branches of these vessels, unite beneath the abductor hallucis muscle to form the venae comites of the posterior tibial artery. These, again, receive, at the spot where the peroneal artery is given off from the posterior tibial, the venae comites of the peroneal artery, which are formed in like manner by the confluence of the various veins corresponding to the branches of that vessel. Opposite the lower border of the popliteus muscle, the posterior tibial veins unite with the anterior tibial veins, which pass through the upper part of the interosseous membrane with the anterior tibial artery, to form the popliteal. The anterior tibial veins are the continuation of the venae comites of the dorsal artery of the foot, which, in their turn, are formed by the confluence of the veins accompanying its various branches. The anterior tibial venae comites thus formed run with the anterior tibial artery up the front of the leg, and, after passing through the interosseous membrane along with the artery, join the posterior tibial veins to form a single popliteal. All these veins contain numerous valves, and communicate, by means of inter- muscular branches, with the superficial veins. The popliteal vein is formed by the confluence of the venae comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries at the lower border of the popliteus, and extends upwards to the opening in the adductor magnus at the junction of the middle and lower third of the thigh, where it changes its name to femoral. It accompanies the popliteal artery, lying superficial to it in the whole of its course, and tightly bound down to it by its fascial sheath. At the lower part of the space it is a little internal to the artery, but, crossing the vessel obliquely as it ascends, lies a little external to it at the upper part of the space. The internal popliteal nerve lies superficial to the vein, being external to it above, then on it, and then a little to its inner side. The popliteal vein contains two or three valves.. The chief variations of the popliteal are :—(1) It may lie between the artery and the bone. (2) It may be double through a part or the whole of the popliteal space. (3) Two veins by fre- quently uniting in front and behind the artery may form a kind of plexus around the vessel. (4) It may be shorter than usual in consequence of a high union of the tibial venae comites. The femoral vein, the continuation of the popliteal upwards, extends from the tendinous opening in the adductor magnus to an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament where it joins the profunda vein to form the common femoral vein. In this course its relations are similar to those of the superficial femoral artery. As