THE URINARY ORGANS 1014 covered above by the peritoneum of the lesser sac, which separates it from the stomach; and below, near its internal inferior angle, it is crossed by the upper border of the pancreas and the splenic artery. Externally it is in contact with the upper extremity of the spleen, which passes a little behind it, and its inner border is separated from its aorta by the fibres of the diaphragm. Accessory suprarenal bodies are often present in the neighbourhood of the principal organs. Structure.—On section the organ is found to be covered by a thin fibrous capsule which sends trabecular processes between the cellular elements of its proper substance. The parenchyma consists of a peripheral portion or cortex, of yellowish colour, except in its deepest layer, which is darkly pigmented, and a central portion or medulla, soft and greyish, and tending to break down under decomposition in such a manner as to give the appearance of an irregular cavity (whence the name suprarenal ' capsule '). Vessels and nerves.—It is richly supplied both with vessels and nerves. Its arteries are derived from three sources—the aorta, the phrenic, and the renal— and pierce the organ in various places, but chiefly on the anterior surface along a furrow sometimes called the hilum. The veins terminate on the right side in the vena cava, and sometimes by means of small branches in the phrenic and renal trunks; on the left, in the left renal vein. The lymphatics pass to the renal glands, which, like the suprarenal bodies, themselves contain a good deal of pig- ment. The nerves form a rich and complex interlacement, and are derived chiefly from the solar and renal plexuses, but include filaments from the splanchnics, and according to some authors from the phrenic and vagus also. It is disproportion- ately large in early foetal life, and has nearly reached its full growth at the time of birth. THE RENAL DUCTS The excretory duct of the kidney (figs. 607, 611, 616) is a musculo-mucous canal, expanded and irregularly branched above, narrow and of fairly uniform dimensions in the rest of its course. At its origin in the sinus renalis it appears in the form of a number of short tubes, usually eight or nine, called calices, each of which embraces the papillary extremity of a pyramid of Malpighi two or three lines above its apex, or occasionally two papilla? may be connected with a single calyx. The calices average about a third to half an inch (8 to 12 mm.) in length, and open directly or by means of intermediate tubes (infundibula) into two short passages, the superior and inferior pelves, which in turn combine after a longer or shorter course to form the common pelvis. The inferior and larger pelvis has a diameter of about two-fifths of an inch (10 mm.); the superior is about one-third less. Occasionally a third or middle pelvis is present. The common pelvis varies greatly in different subjects. It usually appears as a more or less funnel-shaped portion of the canal, wider above (about three-fifths of an inch—15 mm. ), where it lies between the two lips of the hilum; narrow below, where it arches downwards and inwards to become continuous with the relatively uniform portion of the duct known as the ureter proper. In some cases, how- ever, it can scarcely be said to exist as a dilatation. Under ordinary circumstances it is flattened from before backwards, its anterior and posterior walls being in con- tact, and its channel represented by a fissure. It is in relation behind with the posterior lip of the hilum, from which it is separated by more or less adipose tissue continuous with the fatty capsule, and occasionally by an irregular branch of the renal artery. The renal vein and artery lie in front, imbedded in fat, and anterior to these structures is situated the descending portion of the duodenum on the right side, and the pancreas on the left. The ureter extends from the termination of the pelvis to the bladder, running in a kind of lymph-space between the laminae of the subperitoneal tissue. It is a tube of about a fifth of an inch (5 mm.) in diameter when distended, and is fairly uniform in size, except about two inches below the kidney, where a slight constric- tion is usually found (Bruce Clark). Its length is variously stated, but the average in the male adult may be taken as about twelve inches (30 cm.), the right being usually a little the shorter. The excessive estimates sometimes given depend upon