506 THE ARTERIES aorta. The pneumogastric nerve descends parallel to the artery between it and the left common carotid, coming into contact with its anterior surface just before cross- ing the arch of the aorta. The left cervical cardiac nerves of the sympathetic also descend in front of it on their way to the cardiac plexus. The left common carotid is situated anteriorly and to its right, The thoracic duct arches over the artery just internal to the scalenus anticus, to empty its contents into the confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian veins (fig. 360). Behind and somewhat internal to it are the oesophagus, thoracic duct, inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, longus colli muscle, and vertebral column. To some extent it is overlapped posteriorly by the left pleura and lung (fig. 328). On its right side are the trachea and the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and, higher up, the oesophagus and thoracic duct. On its left side are the left pleura and lung. The chief variations in the origin of the left subclavian artery are given under Variations of the Arch of the Aorta (page 472). THE FIRST TOETIOX OF THE RIGHT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY The first portion of the right subclavian artery extends from its origin at the bifurcation of the innominate, behind the upper margin of the right sterno- clavicular joint, upwards and outwards in a gentle curve over the apex of the right lung and pleura to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It measures about one inch and a quarter in length (3 cm.). In this course it ascends in the neck a variable distance above the clavicle, but is so deeply placed, so surrounded by important structures, and gives off so many large branches, that it is now seldom or never selected for the application of a ligature. Relations.—In front it is covered by the integuments, the superficial fascia, the platysma, the anterior layer of the deep fascia, the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the stemo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the deep cervical fascia. It is crossed by the commencement of the innominate, by the internal jugular, and by the vertebral veins; and from within outwards by the pneumo- gastric and phrenic nerves, and the superior cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. A loop of the sympathetic nerve itself also crosses the artery, and forms with the trunk of the sympathetic a ring around the vessel known as the annulus of Vieussens. Behind, but separated from the artery by a cellular interval, are the longus colli muscle, the transverse process of the seventh cervical or first thoracic vertebra, the main chain of the sympathetic nerve, the inferior cardiac nerves, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the apex of the right lung and pleura. Below, it is in contact with the pleura and lung and the loop of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, which winds round the artery from the pneumogastric and ascends behind it to the larynx. The subclavian vein is below the artery and on an anterior plane. Branches.—The vertebral, internal mammary, and thyroid axis arise from this part of the vessel. Not uncommonly a small aberrant artery also takes origin from this portion of the artery and descends to the left behind the oesophagus to join a branch of the aorta opposite the third or fourth thoracic vertebra. This vessel is probably the remains of the right aortic root, THE SECOND PORTION OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY The second portion of the subclavian artery lies behind the scalenus anticus muscle. It measures about three-quarters of an inch in length (2 cm.), and here reaches highest in the neck. The subclavian vein is separated from the artery by the scalenus anticus, and lies on a lower and anterior plane. Relations.—In front it is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, anterior layer of deep fascia, the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, posterior