1197 THE ANKLE outer surface of the calcaneum. It keeps the two peronei in place, and surrounds them behind the fibula in one sheath with a single synovial sac, which extends upwards into the leg for an inch and a half, and sends two processes into the two sheaths in which the tendons lie on the calcaneum. Farther on, while in relation with the cuboid, the peroneus longus has a second synovial sheath. (B) Internal.—This crosses from the internal malleolus to the inner surface of the calcaneum. Beneath it are the following canals: (1) For the tibialis posticus. This tendon-sheath is lined by a synovial membrane extending from a point an inch and a half above the malleolus to the scaphoid. (2) For the flexor longus digitorum. The synovial sheath of this tendon is separate from that of the closely contiguous tibialis posticus. It extends upwards into the leg about as high as the sheath just given. It reaches down into the sole of the foot; but where the tendon subdivides to enter the thecse, each of these is lined by a separate synovial sheath. Next comes (3) a wide space for the posterior tibial vessels and nerve; and, lastly, (4) a canal, like the other two, with a separate synovial sheath, for the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. (C) Anterior annular ligament.—This is a double structure. (1) Upper, above the level of the ankle-joint, and tying the tendons down to the lower third of the leg, it passes transversely between the anterior crest of the tibia and fibula. Here is one sheath only, with a synovial membrane for the tibialis anticus. (2) Lower, over the ankle-joint. This band is arranged like the letter <, placed thus (fig. 759). It is attached by its root to the calcaneum, and by its bifurcations to the internal malleolus and the fascia of the sole. This arrange- ment of the branches of this ligament is not constant. In this, the lower annular ligament, there are usually three sheaths with separate synovial membranes—the innermost (the strongest in each) for the tibialis anticus, the next for the extensor proprius hallucis, and the third common to the extensor communis and peroneus tertius. Points in tenotomy and guides to the tendons.—The tendo Achillis should be divided about an inch and a half above its insertion, its narrowest point, which is about on a level with the internal malleolus. The knife should be intro- duced on the inner side and close to the tendon, so as to avoid the posterior tibial artery (fig. 756). The tibialis anticus is often cut about an inch above its insertion into the internal cuneiform, a point which is below the level of its synovial sheath. The tendon has here the dorsalis pedis on its outer side, but separated by the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis. The knife is introduced on this side. The tibialis posticus.—The usual rule for dividing this tendon is to take a spot two inches above the internal malleolus, and as accurately as possible midway between the anterior and internal borders of the leg. This point will give the inner margin of the tibia, in close apposition to which the tendon is lying, and is a point at which the tendon is rather farther from the artery than it is below, and is also above the commencement of its synovial sheath. A sharp-pointed knife is used first to open the sheath freely, and then a blunt-pointed one to divide the tendon. The flexor longus digitorum is usually cut at the same time. Owing to the great difficulty in making sure of dividing the tibialis posticus tendon at this spot, and the risk of cutting the posterior tibial artery (fig. 756), it has been advised of late years (Parker) to divide this tendon together with that of the anticus simultaneously by an incision a little below and anterior to the tip of the internal malleolus. Other guides are the position of the astragalo-scaphoid joint, and, where the deformity is of some standing, the crease which denotes the inversion of the foot. The position of the two tibial arteries should be noted, and also the lines along which the tendons are converging—the one across the lower end of the tibia, the other from behind the tibia and below the sustentaculum tali to the line of the scaphoid and internal cuneiform. Mr. R. W. Parker has named this operation syndesmotomy, as he rightly considers that the astragalo-scaphoid ligaments require division at the same time. Peronei.—The peronei, longus and brevis, may be divided two inches above the external malleolus, so as to be above the level of their synovial sheath. The knife should be inserted very close to the bone, so as to pass between the fibula and the