1048 THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS The lateral or broad ligaments (fig. 639), called also alae vespertilionis from their fancied resemblance to the wings of a bat, are formed by a duplicature of peritoneum extending from the sides of the uterus and vagina transversely out- wards to the sides of the pelvis. The two layers of peritoneum are continuous above and form the free border of the fold, but diverge laterally and below, where they pass on to adjacent structures. Each ligament presents two surfaces and four borders. The superior or free border is represented by the summit of the plica- tion, which turns around the oviduct and follows a sinuous course towards the side of the pelvis, its outermost extremity lying external to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube and forming a sharp fold, the ligamentum infundibulo-pel- vicum, which conveys the ovarian vessels. The internal border is attached to the sides of the uterus and vagina, the two laminae separating to transmit the utero- vaginal vessels, and muscular hands, which pass from the uterus into the peritoneal fold. The inferior border is attached to the levator ani and recto-vesical fascia; its laminae are separated by fat-bearing cellular tissue (subperitoneal) which gives passage to vessels and nerves and to the ureter; and the anterior layer is much shorter than the posterior, owing to the higher level of its point of reflexion. The external border lies against the obturator fascia, and transmits the uterine vessels and the round ligament. Fig. 639.—The Broad Ligament and its Contents, seen feom the Front. (After Sappey.) PAROVARIUM ' FALLOPIAN TUBE AMPULLA OF FALLOPIAN TUBE EXTERNAL ANGLE OF UTERUS FIMBRIATED EXTREMITY OF TUBE FIMBRIA OVARICA Bound ligament Ligament of ovary Anterior peritoneal lamina The structures enclosed between the two layers of the broad ligament are:—(1) The ovary and its ligament, the former projecting from the posterior lamina and invested by a modified epithelium; the latter, composed of unstriped muscular fibre, passing between the side of the uterus and the inner or lower extremity of the ovary. (2) The Fallopian tube, lying at the upper margin im- mediately beneath the point of continuity of the two lamina?; its outer fimbriated extremity turned backwards and inwards to the ovary, and attached by one of the fringes to the outer or lower end of the organ. It does not reach quite to the pelvic wall. (3) The round ligament, a muscular band running downwards and out- wards, forming a ridge beneath the anterior lamina, and eventually passing to the internal inguinal ring and through the inguinal canal into the labium. (4) Foetal relics: (a) the epovarium, or epoophoron, a group of twelve to twenty effete tubules of the Wolffian body lying close to the attached border of the ovary, bear- ing a certain resemblance in plan to the vasa efferentia of the testicle, and joining a kind of collecting tube above, (b) The duct of Gartner, a canal representing the lower part of the Wolffian duct, is constant in certain animals (cow, etc.) as a tube running on each side of the uterus and vagina, and opening at the lower end