THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 672 lobes of the brain gently raised. The following structures will then come into view, viz. the olfactory bulbs, the second, third, and fourth nerves, the infundibulum, and the internal carotid arteries. The olfactory bulbs will corue away with the brain, but the other structures will require to be divided with scissors, as the nerves are frequently torn away from their connections by using a scalpel for this purpose. The head should next be gently inclined towards the right side, and the tentorium divided close to its attachment to the bone. The sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves should be cut at the same time. This dissection should be repeated on the opposite side. The head should then be tilted backwards, and the remaining cranial nerves, the vertebral arteries, and the commencement of the spinal cord cut through. The latter should be divided as low down as it can be reached with the scalpel. The brain can now be removed from the cranial cavity, the veins of Galen being ruptured by this process. The DURA MATER is a tough fibrous membrane of a bluish-white colour pre- senting externally a rough appearance, but internally smooth and shining. It performs the double function of an endosteum to the interior of the skull and of affording support and protection to the brain. In correspondence with this double function it may be regarded as consisting of two layers, an outer or periosteal lamina, and an inner or supporting lamina. These layers are inseparable for the greater part of their extent, but along certain lines the inner lamina leaves the peri- osteal lamina and forms shelf-like projections (of which the falx cerebri and the tentorium cerebelli are examples) into the cranial cavity. Along the lines where these layers divaricate spaces occur which form cranial sinuses. A cranial sinus may be defined as a space formed by the cleavage of the dura mater, lined by a prolongation of the lining membrane of a vein and conveying venous blood. Some of the sinuses are placed between the periosteal and supporting layers of the dura mater—the lateral sinus is a good example of this class. Others (as the straight sinus) are bounded wholly by the inner or supporting layer. The cranial sinuses form two principal systems, which, however, communicate with each other. The following is a list of the sinuses which unite to form the larger of these two systems:—superior longitudinal, inferior longitudinal, straight, occipital, superior petrosal. These form a system which converges at the torcular Herophili, a dilated blood-space situated on the right side (rarely on the left) of the internal occipital protuberance. The blood from the torcular is drained away by the lateral sinuses (more particularly by the right sinus), which also receive blood from the cavernous sinuses by the superior petrosal sinuses, and it leaves the cranium through the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen. The straight sinus usually passes into the left lateral sinus. The smaller system comprises the spheno-parietal, cavernous, circular, transverse, and inferior petrosal sinuses. The blood from this system passes into the internal jugular vein by the inferior petrosal sinus through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen. Emissary veins.—These veins are possibly extracranial tributaries of the cranial sinuses under normal conditions, but, in cases of engorgement of the sinuses, permit the flow of blood in the opposite direction, and become, in accordance with their name, emissary. The mastoid emissary is the most important of these veins ; it passes through the mastoid foramen to enter the lateral sinus, and explains the value of applying leeches behind the ears in cases of cerebral congestion. Three small emissaries enter the superior longitudinal sinus, one of these passes through the foramen csecuin : the others traverse the parietal foramina. An additional vein occasionally passes to the torcular Herophili through a foramen in the occipital bone near the external occipital protuberance. Emissary veins pass through the foramen ovale and foramen of Vesalius, and place the cavernous sinus in communication with the pterygoid venous plexus ; others traverse the cartilage which occupies the foramen lacerum medium. Small veins enter the lateral sinuses through the anterior and posterior condyloid foramina. A minute venous plexus, which accompanies the internal carotid artery through the carotid canal, establishes a communication between the cavernous sinus and the internal jugular vein. (Eektorzik.) The dura mater of the brain is continuous through the foramen magnum with the dura mater of the cord. It is also continuous, through the various foramina in the cranium, with the external periosteum of the skull. This is most easily observed at the sphenoidal fissure, but may be made out with ordinary care at any of the other foramina. It sends a strong prolongation through the optic foramen which splits into two layers, one of which forms the sheath of the optic nerve, and the other is continued into the periosteum of the orbit, On account of the number of foramina at the base of the skull, it follows that the dura mater is more firmly connected to the bone here than at the roof and sides. In the region of the basilar process of the occipital bone, the dura mater splits into supporting and periosteal layers. The supporting layer passes through the foramen magnum to become