852 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE The vena centralis retinae returns the blood of the corresponding artery. 2. The ciliary system of blood-vessels (pages 500, 501, and 625).—There are three sets of arteries belonging to this system, all derived directly or indirectly from the ophthalmic artery. (1) Short posterior ciliary arteries, twelve to twenty in number, pierce the sclerotic round the optic nerve entrance, and are distributed in the choroid. Before entering the eyeball, small twigs are given off to the adjoining sclerotic and to the dural sheath of the optic nerve. (2) Two long posterior ciliary arteries, piercing the sclerotic further from the nerve than the short ciliaries, run horizontally forwards between the sclerotic and choroid, one on each side of the globe. On arriving at the ciliary body, they join with the anterior ciliary arteries, forming the circulus iridis major, which sends off branches to the ciliary processes and the iris. The long ciliaries also give twigs to the ciliary muscle, and small recurrent branches run backwards to anastomose with the short ciliary arteries. The arteries of the iris run radially to the pupillary border, anastomosing with one another opposite the outer border of the sphincter so as to form the circulus iridis minor. (3) The anterior ciliary arteries come from the arteries of the four recti Fig. 479.—Surface of Choroid and Iris exposed by removal of Sclerotic and Cornea, showing Distribution of Blood-vessels and Nerves. (Twice natural size.' After Zinn.) A CILIARY NER muscles, one or two from each; they run forwards, branching as they go, and finally pierce the sclerotic near the corneal border. Outside the globe they send twigs to the adjoining sclerotic, to the conjunctiva, and to the border of the cornea. After passing through the sclerotic the arteries enter the ciliary muscle, where they end in twigs to the muscle and to the circulus iridis major, and recurrent branches to the choroid. Veins.—The venous blood from almost the whole uveal tract (choroid, ciliary processes and iris, and part of the ciliary muscle) ultimately leaves the eyeball by (1) the venae vorticosae, which have been already noticed in describing an antero- posterior section through the globe. One large vein passes backwards from each vortex, piercing the sclerotic obliquely; it is joined by small episcleral veins when outside the globe. (2) The anterior ciliary veins commence by the junction of a few small veins of the ciliary muscle; they pass outwards through the sclerotic near the corneal border, receiving blood from the veins in connection with Schlemm's canal, and afterwards from episcleral and conjunctival veins, and from the marginal corneal plexus. Finally they join the veins running in the recti muscles. Lymphatic system of the eyeball.—Apart from those in the conjunctiva