ABDUCTOR POLLICIS 339 Nerve-supply.—From the inner cord of the brachial plexus (through the eighth cervical nerve), by branches from the deep division of the ulnar nerve which enter the muscles at the upper part of their anterior aspect. Action of the interossei muscles.—First, the common action of all the interossei is (1) to flex the first phalanges; and (2) to extend the second and third. Their power of flexion depends upon their insertion into the sides of the first phalanges as well as the edges of the aponeuroses by which the backs of these phalanges are covered. The extension of the second and third phalanges depends upon the fact that the portion of the aponeurosis into which each of them is inserted is continued downwards to the bases of these phalanges. A good example of the action of these muscles and of the lumbricales is given in the movements of the fingers which hold the pen in writing. In forming the light upstroke it will be seen that flexion of the first, accompanies the extension of the second and third phalanges. This movement is due to the contraction of the lumbricales and interossei. On the other hand, the thick downstroke is formed by the extension of the first, and the flexion of the second and third phalanges; this strong movement being due to the action of three powerful muscles, the extensor communis, the flexor sublimis, and the flexor profundus digitorum. Secondly, the palmar- interossei adduct the index, ring, and little fingers towards the middle line of the hand which passes through the middle finger. Thirdly, the dorsal interossei abduct the index, middle, and ring fingers from the middle line of the hand. As the middle finger can be drawn either to the radial or ulnar side from the middle line of the hand, it has two dorsal inter- ossei to abduct it. The first dorsal interosseous muscle will also assist in adducting the thumb. Relations.—On the palmar surface of the interossei, separated from them by the deep layer of fascia, lie the flexor profundus digitorum tendons and the lumbri- cales, the adductor and part of the short flexor of the thumb, the deep palmar arch above, and the deep transverse ligaments below; behind, lie the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum and extensor indicis, separated from the dorsal inter- ossei by the deep dorsal fascia. Variations.—Sometimes the dorsal interossei receive small accessory heads from the posterior carpal ligaments, the lower end of the radius, or the adjacent deep fascia. A part of the first dorsal interosseous has been seen running separately from the front of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb to the tendon of the first lumbricalis. Occasionally the second dorsal inter- osseous is inserted upon the ulnar side of the index finger, so as to resemble the same muscle in the foot. Muscles of the Thenar Eminence These are four in number, and they form a fleshy mass at the radial border of the palm, covered by the thenar portion of the palmar fascia, and called the thenar eminence or ball of the thumb. They are the abductor pollicis, the opponens pollicis, the flexor brevis pollicis, and the adductor pollicis. 1. ABDUCTOR POLLICIS The abductor pollicis—named from its action upon the thumb—is a small thick triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The tuberosity of the scaphoid bone; (2) the upper part of the ridge on the trapezium; (3) the outer part of the front of the anterior annular ligament; (4) the outer or thenar division of the palmar fascia by which the ball of the thumb is covered; and (5) the slip from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis which joins this part of the palmar fascia, Insertion.—(1) With the outer tendon of the flexor brevis pollicis into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb; and into (2) the outer edge of the aponeurosis of the extensor longus pollicis upon the back of the first phalanx. Structure.—Arising by fleshy or short tendinous fibres from the anterior annular ligament and some or all of the other four origins, the muscle converges upon a short tendon which blends with the adjacent tendon of the flexor brevis.