723 ME TEXCEPHA L ON body, and here a greyish prominence, the grey tubercle of Rolando, comes to the surface. Beyond this the lateral column can be followed as a narrow band behind the olive as far as the transverse groove at the lower border of the pons. The olivary body is an ovoidal prominence from twelve to sixteen millimetres long, which extends upwards as far as the transverse groove at the lower border of the pons. It is separated from the pyramidal body by the sulcus lateralis ventralis, and marked off externally by the sulcus postolivaris. Its lower end is crossed by the external arciform fibres. The external arciform fibres emerge from the anterior longitudinal fissure and from the sulcus lateralis ventralis, and arch round the pyramidal and olivary bodies to join the restiform body of the same side. The posterior area of the medulla is occupied in its lower part by two slender fasciculi, each of which expands above into a tubercle. The inner of the two is called the funiculus gracilis, the outer the funiculus cuneatus. The funiculus gracilis is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the posterior fissure. As it approaches the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle, it swells out into a prominence called the clava. The latter diverges from its fellow of the opposite side, bounding the fourth ventricle. When traced upwards it gradually tapers off into a fine point. To the inner margins of the diverging portions of the clava? we find the obex and liguhe attached, as already described (page 718). The funiculus cuneatus is placed between the funiculus last described and the lateral area of the medulla. At the level of the clava it swells out into a prominence, the cuneate tubercle. Above this point it disappears from the surface. The upper part of the posterior area is occupied by the restiform body. The latter appears at first sight as if it were the continuation upwards of the funiculus cuneatus and of the lateral tract, and this was formerly described to be the case. It is now known, however, that it is formed by the direct cerebellar tract (page 742), the external arciform fibres, and the deep or internal arciform fibres. These constituents unite and form a rounded cord which proceeds upwards and then backwards to the cerebellum, forming the inferior peduncle of that body. In its lower part it is embraced by the roots of the auditory nerve. It then passes through a gap or interval between the superior and middle cerebellar peduncles, and ends in the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum in the nucleus fastigii. It is connected by the arcuate fibres with the columns of Goll and Burdach, partly by uncrossed and partly by crossed fibres. The uncrossed fibres have been shown to take a larger share in the formation of the restiform body than the crossed fibres (Darkschewitsch and Freud). The crossed fibres all reach the restiform body as arciform fibres ; many of these fibres traverse the olivary nucleus but without | entering into connection with its nerve-cells (Edinger) ; they also traverse the accessory olives and may pierce the ascending root of the trigeminal nerve; they all decussate at the raphe, and from thence proceed in two groups, superficial and deep arciform fibres. The superficial arciform fibres emerge through the anterior fissure of the medulla, some also through the sulcus paramedianus ven- tralis, and arch round the pyramidal body and olive to join the restiform body. In this part of their course they pass between the root-fibres of the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth nerves. The deep arciform fibres, after crossing in the raphe, traverse the olivary nucleus of the opposite side, and pass thence, through the substance of the medulla, into the restiform body. The olivary body also sends fibres to the restiform body. Fibres pass out of the hilum and cross in the raphe; they then traverse the olivary body of the opposite side and join the restiform body. As already mentioned, the superficial origins of the cranial nerves appear on the surface of the medulla. The sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves come to the surface in the transverse groove between the medulla and pons (fig. 411). The twelfth nerve appears by a row of filaments in the groove between the olivary and pyra- midal bodies, and in a line with these filaments, opposite the decussation of the pyramids, the upper part of the anterior root of the first cervical nerve comes to the surface. Between the olivary and restiform bodies, the ninth, tenth, and the upper part of the eleventh nerves make their appearance, and behind the latter the upper filaments of the posterior root of the first cervical nerve reach the surface.