SECTION I OSTEOLOGY By J. BLAND SUTTON, F.R.C.S. ASSISTANT-SURGEON TO THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL, AND SURGEON TO THE CHELSEA HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN, LONDON THE SKELETON THE skeleton contains 206 distinct bones. They are arranged by anato- mists in two sets:—the bones of the trunk and the bones of the limbs. The skeleton of the trunk is made up of the skull, which contains twenty-nine bones exclusive of the teeth; the vertebral column, consisting of twenty-six separate bones; twenty-four ribs, and the sternum. The skeleton of the upper limbs comprises sixty-four bones; and that of the lower limbs, including the patella?, sixty-two. Several of the skull bones are compound, that is, in the immature skeleton they consist of separate elements which ultimately unite to form a single bone. In order to comprehend the nature of such bones, it is necessary to examine them in the various stages through which they pass in the embryo and child. Thus the student, anxious to convince himself of Man's place in nature, studies carefully the development and ossification of bones, and compares them with the bones of other Vertebrata. He then finds that many elements which make a compound bone are osteological units for the Comparative Anatomist. Comparisons of this nature constitute the science of Morphology, one of the most fascinating departments of Biology- It is the duty of the student to follow the descriptions with the actual bones in his hand. He should also remember that many variations occur in the outlines and markings of bones. Hence the various types described and figured represent the average of a large number of bones examined. It is very rare to meet with bones which accurately correspond to the description in every detail. In order to appreciate the morphology of the skeleton, the osteogenesis or mode of development of bones must be studied as well as their topography or position. Some bones arise by ossification in membrane, others in cartilage. In the early embryo, many portions of the skeleton are represented by cartilage which becomes infiltrated by lime salts—calcification. This earthy material is taken up and redeposited in a regular manner—ossification. Portions of the original cartilage persist at the articular ends of bones, and, in young bones, at the epiphysial lines. Long bones increase in length at the epiphysial cartilages, and increase in thick- ness by ossification of the deeper layers of the investing membrane or periosteum. These processes—intercartilaginous and intermembranous ossification—proceed con- currently in the limb-bones of a young and growing mammal. There is no bone in the .human skeleton which, though pre-formed in cartilage, is perfected in this tissue. The ossification is completed in membrane. On the 1 1