URINARY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS 1072 The veins terminate in the corresponding trunks. The superficial veins become visibly enlarged during pregnancy and lactation. The lymphatics, originating in the cellular interspaces of the gland, form trunks which accompany the veins; the majority terminating in the costal group of axillary glands, the others in the retrosternal chain. The integument of the nipple and areola, as well as the rest of the skin over the mamma, is richly supplied with lymphatics, and as these communicate freely with the vessels of the other side across the middle line, infection may be conveyed to the glands of the side opposite to the primary seat of disease (Volkmann). In cancer of the breast the deep cervical glands about the subclavian vessels may become implicated by exten- sion from the axilla as the disease advances. The nerves are derived from the supraclavicular branches of the cervical plexus, and from the intercostals. The glandular twigs are traced by Eckhard to the fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostals. Development.—The breast appears about the seventh week of foetal life as a circular epider- mic ridge, enclosing a central depression, the cells of which grow inwards and fomi branching tubular ducts that radiate beneath the nipple (fig. 658). Abnormalities.—Small supplementary lacteal glands, in addition to the normal accessory structures beneath the areola, are frequently present around the margin of the principal gland, and may be found in front of the sternum, in the axilla, and below the clavicle, and there is reason to believe that many of the adenomata and cancers take origin in these redundant structures (Roger Williams). Besides these, large supernumerary mammae, having all the characters of the typical organs, have also been met with in various situations—in the axilla, over the back, the abdomen, and even on the thigh. These are in all probability atavistic. Absence of the mamma is extremely rare. The nipples may be double, or even triple on each breast, or may be wanting altogether. In a few instances an abnormal development of the gland tissue has been known to occur in the male, and milk has been secreted in sufficient quantity to nourish an infant. A slight and temporary enlargement of the gland about the period of puberty is not infrequent.