THE UTERUS 1047 Variations in form according to age.—In young children the body is but slightly developed in proportion to the cervix, and the prominence of the intra- vaginal segment is relatively great. In the virgin uterus of a young adult the length is about equally divided between body and cervix, but after childbirth the body never returns to its original size, and its length when involution is complete is nearly double that of the neck. In old age the entire organ undergoes atrophy. The cavity of the uterus is reduced to a fissure by the antero-posterior flattening of the walls. It is divisible into two segments, that of the body and that of the neck. The shape of the cavity of the body is that of a triangle with convex sides (in the virgin) and three open angles. At the two superior angles are the orifices of the oviducts, and the lower angle presents the os uteri internum or aperture of communication with the neck. The walls are smooth, and moistened with mucus. The average length of the cavity in the nulliparous adult is about two inches (5 cm.); in multipara?, two and a quarter to two and a half inches (5-5 to 6 cm.). The greatest transverse diameter is a little less than half of these measurements. The cavity of the neck is fusiform, terminating in the os internum above, and in the os externum below. The superior opening is circular, the inferior usually in the form of a transverse fissure. The mucous lining of the anterior and posterior walls presents ridges which bear some resemblance to those of the vagina, but are dependent upon the arrangement of the innermost layers of the muscular wall, and not upon a simple plication of the mucous membrane. The whole length of each wall is traversed by a longitudinal nearly median ridge or stem, from which pass a number of branches in an outward and slightly upward direction. The figure formed by these folds is designated by the name of arbor vitse uterina; it is most marked in the young, and tends to effacement after repeated parturitions. The cavity usually contains a plug of alkaline mucus. Structure.—The uterus is composed of three coats—an outer sero-fibrous, a middle muscular, and an inner mucous. The serous membrane covers the upper half or two-thirds of the anterior surface, the whole of the supravaginal portion of the posterior surface, and the summit. The lower portion of the anterior wall is separated from the bladder by cellular tissue continuous with the subperitoneal fascia, and a thin layer of the same structure may be demonstrated over the lower part of the posterior surface and laterally into the base of the broad ligament on either side between the two peritoneal laminae. Owing to this disposition of the sub- serous tissue, the whole of the cervix uteri may be amputated without encroaching upon the peritoneal cavity. The muscular coat constitutes the greater part of the thickness of the organ. The arrangement of the fibres is very complex, but a fairly satisfactory division into three layers may be demonstrated:—a thin outer layer, partly longitudinal, partly transverse in direction, continuous with the muscular fibres of the oviducts, vagina, round, ovarian, and utero-sacral ligaments, and with the muscular expan- sion in the broacl ligaments; a middle layer, very thick, its fibres plexiform, run- ning in all directions, and intermingled with large venous plexuses in the body of the uterus, the innermost strands forming sphincteric rings around the os internum and around the orifices of the oviducts; and a thin internal layer, longitudinal in the body, and producing the ridges of the arbor vita? in the cervix. The mucous membrane of the body is smooth and pale, lined with cylindrical ciliated epithelium, and pierced by innumerable tubular glands. The ciliary motion is from within outwards. The mucous membrane of the cavity of the neck is thicker and is plicated in the manner already described; its epithelium is ciliated down to the external opening, but there undergoes a transition into the squamous laminated epithelium which covers the intravaginal portion of the os. Many tubu- lar and racemose mucous glands open into the furrows of the arbor vita?, and these are liable to pathological changes which cause them to assume a vesicular charac- ter, when they are sometimes known under the fanciful name of ovula Nabothi. Ligaments.—The so-called ligaments of the uterus are of two kinds, peritoneal and muscular. The peritoneal ligaments are six in number: two lateral, two anterior, and two posterior.