967 THE SMALL INTESTINE surface of this portion of the bowel. It is of interest as being the seat of origin of a retroperitoneal hernia. The fold forming the fossa is the remains of the 'duodenal fold,' modified by growth and displaced by the process of unequal development in the intestinal canal (page 1003 and figs. 605, 606). The pocket, or fossa, is of triangular outline, with the base or orifice upwards. Its apex extends below the last bend of the duodenum (fig. 572). The capacity of the fossa varies. In well-marked speci- mens it will lodge the thumb up to the first joint. It is actually occupied by the duodenojejunal junction or bend. Out of one hundred bodies examined, I found this fossa in forty-eight examples. Jejunum and ileum.—There is no unvarying method in the arrangement of the individual coils of the small intestine. In the majority of adult bodies the small intestine is disposed in an irregularly curved manner from left to right. The gut, starting from the duodenum, will first occupy the contiguous parts of the left side of the epigastric and umbilical regions; the coils then fill some part of the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions; they now commonly descend into the pelvis, reappearing in the left iliac quarter, and then occupy, in order, the hypogastric, lower umbilical, right lumbar, and right iliac regions. Before reaching the last situation they commonly descend again into the pelvis. In many instances no kind of methodical arrangement is apparent. The coils of small intestine most usually found in the pelvis belong to the terminal part of the ileum, and to that part of the intestine that has the longest mesentery—the part, namely, that extends between two points, respectively six and eleven feet from the end of the duodenum. In five out of one hundred cases examined, the coils were arranged in an exactly reverse manner to that just described. The jejunum ( jejunus, empty).—The jejunum is the name given to the ujiper two-fifths of the small intestine below the duodenum. The term ileum (ei'iciv, to twist) is applied to the last three-fifths of the bowel. The ileum ends at the ileo-csecal valve. The coils formed by the jejunum and ileum are very movable, are completely invested by peritoneum, and are supported and attached to the posterior parietes by the extensive membrane known as the mesentery. The intestine alters gradually in character from above downwards. If a segment from the middle of the jejunum be compared with a portion of the middle ileum, the following differences would be noted. The diameter of the jejunum is about an inch and a half, that of the ileum one and a quarter. The jejunum has thicker walls, is more vascular, and is provided with a more complex mucous membrane. Meckel's diverticulum.—From one to three feet from the end of the ileum is sometimes seen a diverticulum, or blind tube or cord, coming off from the free margin of the bowel. This is Meckel's diverticulum, and represents the remains of the vitello-intestinal duct (page 994). The mesentery.—The mesentery extends from the end of the duodenum to the ileo-cascal junction. It envelopes and supports the ileum and jejunum. Its upper or right layer is continuous with the under layer of the transverse meso-colon and with the peritoneum that invests the ascending colon. Its lower or left layer joins with the serous membrane that encloses the descending colon and that forms the sigmoid mesentery (fig. 561). The point at which the mesentery is attached above is on a level with the lower border of the pancreas and just to the left of the vertebral bodies. From this point the insertion of the mesentery follows an oblique line that runs downwards and to the right, crossing the great vessels, and ending in some part of the iliac fossa (fig. 599). In the absence of an ascending meso-colon (the normal condition) the peri- toneum that covers the caecum is reflected from the hinder surface of that part of the bowel on to the posterior parietes; at this reflexion the mesentery ends. If an ascending meso-colon exists, the mesentery terminates by joining it. The parietal attachment of the mesentery measures, as a rule, about six inches (fig. 599). The length of the mesentery from the spine to the intestine varies in different parts of the canal; its average length may be taken as between eight and nine inches. It