1066 URINARY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS abdominal fascia with Poupart's ligament and to the margin of the saphenous opening. Superficial perinaeal interspace (figs. 647, 652, 654).—Detaching the fascia of Colles from its connections, the dissector opens the superficial interfascial space and exposes its contents, namely:—(1) The crura of the corpora cavernosa with the ischio-cavernosi; (2) the bulb of the corpus spongiosum with the bulbo- cavernosi; (3) the capriciously scattered fibres of the superficial transversi perinaei ; (4) the arteries of the corpora cavernosa and the dorsal arteries of the penis with their associated veins and lymphatics ; (5) the dorsal nerves of the penis ; and (6) the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves. The roof of the space (the so-called floor) is formed by the inferior triangular ligament. The transversi perinsei, the crura penis with the ischio-cavernosi, and the bulb with the bulbo-cavernosi, have been already described (pages 1034, 1035). Each of the muscles named has a fascial sheath of its own, distinct from the fascia of Colles. The artery of the corpus cavernosum enters the crus immediately after piercing the inferior triangular ligament; the dorsal artery of the penis, reaching the interfascial space more anteriorly with the dorsal nerve, runs forwards to the dorsum of the united corpora cavernosa to take its place between the vein and nerve; the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerve given off from the internal Fig. 654.—Diagram of the Superficial and Deep Triangular Ligaments. pudic trunks in the ischio-rectal fossa enter the interfascial space near the free border of the perinaeal ledge. These divide into two sets of branches, posterior or deep, to the penile muscles, and anterior or superficial to the scrotal and perinaeal integument; the latter piercing the fascia of Colles and the scrotal investment con- tinuous with it,to reach the skin. The superficial perineal interspace then may be said to contain the root of the penis, with the muscles, vessels, and nerves connected with it. Superficial or inferior triangular ligament ( ' the anterior layer of the triangu- lar ligament' ) (fig. 652).—On removing the contents of the superficial interspace the dissector exposes the under surface of the inferior or superficial triangular ligament. This structure forms almost a horizontal plane in the erect posture of the body, and consists of strong bands of fibrous tissue, running for the most part in a transverse direction across the subpubic arch to be attached firmly to the ischio-pubic rami above the line of attachment of the fascia of Colles and of the penile muscles. Anteriorly, it is separated from the subpubic ligament by an interval which trans- mits the dorsal vein of the penis; posteriorly, it blends with the fascia of Colles and with the superior triangular ligament to form the hinder border of the perinatal ledge; and superiorly it is intimately related to the deep transversus perinsei Subpubic ligament with aperture for dorsal veiu of the penis Apertures for dorsal artery and j nerve of the penis \