1111 RELATIONS OF LUNGS TO CHEST-WALLS internal mammary, which run outwards, two small branches to each space, per- forating branches from the same vessel, one or two given off opposite to each space, the long thoracic and external mammary (when present) from the axillary. The lymphatics may be divided into two sets—(A) The majority which go along the chief vessels to the glands in the axilla, where the following groups are to be found: (1) Axillary; (2) subscapular; (3) pectoral, along the long tho- racic; (4) subclavian, or infra-, and supraclavicular. All these anastomose with each other, and also with (B) a much smaller set of lymphatics, which pass from the inner part of the breast, through the anterior ends of the intercostal space, to the internal mammary or anterior intercostal lymphatic glands. Thus they reach the mediastinal and deeper lymphatics. Parts behind manubrium.—There is little or no lung behind the first bone of the sternum, the space being occupied by the trachea and large vessels, as follows: —The left innominate vein crosses behind the sternum just below its upper border. Next come the great primary branches of the aortic arch. Deeper still is the tra- Fig. 683.—Outline of the Heart, its Valves, and the Lungs (shaded). (Holden.) chea, dividing into its two bronchi opposite to the junction of the first and second bones of the sternum. Deepest of all is the oesophagus. About one inch from the upper border of the sternum is the highest part of the aortic arch, lying on the bifurcation of the trachea (Holden). Outline of the lungs. Their relation to the chest-wall.—Tlie apex of the lung rises about an inch and a half (from half an inch to an inch and three-quar- ters) above the first rib into the base of the posterior triangle lying behind the inner end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, and the anterior scalene, covered by the pleura and deep cervical fascia, and having the subclavian artery arching over it. From the apices the thin anterior borders converge inwards behind the sterno- clavicular joints, and the first piece of the sternum to the junction of this with the second, almost meeting at this point. Thence the two borders descend parallel and close to each other (the right sometimes passing just beyond the middle line), and th us covering over the heart and large vessels, to a point midway between the fourth pair of costal cartilages, where they diverge, but not to an equal degree. The right