783 CERVICAL NERVES medius, where the third unites with the second and fourth nerves, completing the plexus. ! The lower four cervical nerves increase rapidly in size from the fifth to the j eighth, and unite with the greater part of the first thoracic nerve to form the brachial plexus. Each of these nerves is connected by one or two twigs to the cervical sympathetic. CERVICAL PLEXUS The anterior divisions of the upper four cervical nerves unite to form the cervical plexus in the following manner: the second and third nerves are connected by ascending and descending branches with one another, and with the first and fourth nerves. In this way a series of three loops is formed. The fourth nerve is also connected with the brachial plexus by a descending twig. The plexus lies in the upper part of the side of the neck, upon the scalenus medius muscle, and under cover of the upper part of the sterno-mastoid. The branches of the plexus are classified into a superficial and a deep series. The superficial series is sub- divided into ascending, transverse, and descending branches; the deep series into external and internal branches. Superficial Branches Ascending branches.—1. The lesser occipital nerve is derived from the second cervical. It passes backwards and slightly upwards under cover of the ! sterno-mastoid muscle to reach the posterior border of that muscle. It then ascends, running parallel to the posterior border of the muscle, being occasionally overlapped j by it, and passes on to the scalp, where it divides into auricular, mastoid, and J occipital branches, (a) The auricular branch runs upwards and slightly forwards I to reach the integument on the posterior and upper part of the pinna, and is dis- tributed there. (6) The mastoid branch is distributed to the skin covering the base of the mastoid process, (e) The occipital branches ramify over the occipi- | talis muscle, and are distributed to the skin of the scalp; they communicate with l one another and with the great occipital nerve. The branches of the small occipital I nerve anastomose with twigs of the posterior auricular, great auricular, and great I occipital nerves. 2. The great auricular nerve arises by two roots, one from the second, and i the other from the third cervical nerve. It accompanies the lesser occipital nerve i as far as the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and then winds round that j muscle, and crosses it obliquely. In this course it runs upwards and forwards I towards the tip of the mastoid process, and is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, j and platysma. At a point about the centre of its course across the sterno-mastoid , muscle, it begins to divide into branches, which diverge from one another as they approach the level of the mastoid process, forming mastoid, auricular, and facial branches. («) The mastoid branch is small, and is distributed to the integument covering the mastoid process. It anastomoses with the posterior auricular and j small occipital nerves. (6) The auricular branches are three or four stout twigs which anastomose with the branches of the posterior auricular nerve; they cross the superficial surface of the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and are | distributed to the skin on the back of the pinna with the exception of its uppermost I part. One or two twigs pass through fissures in the cartilage of the ear, and are distributed to the integument on the outer surface of the lobule and the outer surface of the lower part of the helix and antihelix. (c) The facial branches pass upwards and forwards among the superficial lobules of the parotid and supply the skin over that gland and immediately in front of it, and they anastomose in the | substance of the gland with the cervico-facial division of the facial nerve. In some j cases fine twigs may be traced forwards nearly to the angle of the mouth. Transverse branch.—The superficial cervical nerve arises from the second i and third nerves, and appears at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, a j little below the great auricular nerve. It passes transversely across the sterno- | mastoid under cover of the integuments, platysma, and external jugular vein. It