THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION 940 month it is about 1 to 50; at birth it is 1 to 120; whilst in the adult it is about 1 to 160. The auricular portion is at first more capacious than the ventricular, and the right auricle is larger than the left. The ventricular walls are at first about equal in thickness, but at birth the left wall is the thicker of the two. The foramen ovale is largest about the sixth month of intra-uterine life, and there is up to this period a direct communication between the two auricles. The valve of the foramen ovale, however, gradually advancing upwards beyond the annulus, on its left side, acts as a perfect valve during the latter half of foetal life, and thus prevents the return of blood into the right auricle. The Eustachian valve has already been described; it is of large size in the foetal Fig. 558.—Anterior View of Heart and Great Vessels of F(etus, the Anterior Chest Wall beino removed and the Heart Sac opened. Left Left Lnnominate carotid subclavian SECTION OF CLAVICLE RIGHT LUNG CUT EOGE OF UPPER SURFACE RIGHT AURICULAR RIGHT PERICARDIUM OF OIAPHRAGM APPENDIX VENTRICLE heart, and serves to direct the current of blood from the inferior cava into the left auricle. The ductus arteriosus continues the pulmonary artery onwards to the concavity of the arch of the aorta, to a point just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery, and so transmits the blood from the right ventricle into the descending aorta. The ductus arteriosus during the growth of the pulmonary artery becomes ultimately associated with its left branch. The fcetal circulation.—The right auricle of the heart receives its blood from both vena? cavse, as well as from the coronary sinus. That which is conveyed by the superior cava is venous blood returned from the head and neck and upper extremities. The inferior cava returns the blood from the lower half of the body, as well as that which comes from the placenta through the umbilical vein. This latter stream reaches the inferior cava, in part directly through the ductus venosus, and in part through the liver and hepatic veins.