1030 THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS Each vesicula is of somewhat triangular form, its broad upper extremity lying be- neath the peritoneum, its apex joining the vas deferens at the base of the prostate. It averages about two and a quarter inches (6 cm.) in length and half an inch (12 mm.) in diameter at its base. It is lobulated on the surface, and on dissection is found to consist of a central tube from three to five inches (8-12 cm.) in length, with two or more short lateral branches. It is related in front to the posterior wall of the bladder, and by its upper extremity overlaps the ureter; posteriorly it is covered by the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum, for a short distance above; and below this point it lies in direct contact with the front of the rectum, and external to the ampulla of the vas deferens. It becomes constricted at its junction with the vas. Structurally it consists of a fibrous external coat, a middle muscular coat, and an internal mucous membrane. The muscularis is arranged in three layers, the inner and outer of which are longitudinal in direction, the intermediate fibres being transverse. The mucous membrane is plicated, sacculated, yellowish-brown in colour, and lined with cylindrical epithelium. It is invested, together with the ampulla of the vas, by a kind of sheath of fibrous tissue and by a layer of smooth muscular fibres which is probably accessory in function to the contractile element of the proper wall of the tubes. The EJACULATORY DUCT, formed on each side by the union of the vas def- erens and vesicula seminalis, is an infundibuliform tube about f of an inch in length, and about -g- of an inch (3 mm.) in width above, narrowing to $ of that size below, while the lumen near its opening is not more than of an inch (0'5 mm.) in diameter. The two ducts converge slightly as they descend, and finally, passing behind the so-called ' middle lobe,' the hinder part of the basal muscular ring of the prostate (page 1022), pierce the prostatic fissure and open on to the verumontanum on either side of the orifice of the sinus pocularis (fig. 624). Vessels and Nerves of the testicle and its appendages.—The testicle is supplied with blood by the spermatic and deferential arteries, the two vessels anastomosing with each other and with the scrotal arteries at the lower extremity of the gland. The corresponding veins, spermatic and deferential, form like com- munications and run up in two separate groups. The spermatic veins, large and imperfectly valved, spring from the upper part of the testicle, and, running in front of the deferential veins around the spermatic artery, are connected to each other by means of short transverse branches; finally, the right ends in the vena cava, the left in the left renal vein. The lymphatics of the vas and testicle accompany the veins. The former terminate in the pelvic iliac glands, the latter in the lumbar glands. The free anastomosis between the deferential, spermatic, and scrotal blood- vessels explains why the ligature or excision of the spermatic veins and artery in varicocele leaves the nutrition of the testicle unimpaired; while the intercommuni- cation of the testicular and scrotal blood and lymph vessels behind the epididymis accounts for the extension of inflammatory affections of the epididymis to the scrotal integument. The Nerves of the testicle come from the aortic, renal, and hypogastric plexuses. The vesicula seminalis is supplied by the deferential, inferior vesical, and middle hamiorrhoidal arteries : its veins, large and numerous, form a kind of plexus which receives some of the vesical veins, and communicates below and in front with the prostatic plexus: its lymphatics end in the pelvic glands, and the nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. SPERMATIC CORD The spermatic cord is the elongated pedicle of the testicle. It extends from the internal inguinal ring, where its component structures are collected together, through the inguinal canal, and into the scrotum as far as the summit of the testicle. Its constituent elements are as follow (fig. 626). 1. The vas deferens, lying with the deferential vessels posterior to the other structures, and recognisable by its cord-like resistance to pressure.