ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 868 pressed antero-posteriorly; the lumen of the lower punctum is somewhat larger than that of the upper. As the lower papilla is a little further from the inner canthus than the upper, the corresponding canaliculus is longer. On tracing either canaliculus from its origin, we find that at first it runs nearly vertically for a short distance, then bends sharply towards the nose, and finally courses more or less horizontally, converging slightly towards its fellow, and not infrequently joining it before opening into the sac. The calibre varies considerably in this course, being narrowest a short distance from the punctum, and widest at the bend, from which point it again narrows very gradually as it nears the sac. Tbe wall of the canaliculus consists mainly of elastic and white fibrous tissue, lined internally by epithelium, and covered externally by striated muscle (part of the orbicularis). Tbe muscle-fibres run parallel to the canaliculus in the horizontal part of its course; but they are placed, some in front and some behind, around the vertical part, acting here as a kind of sphincter. Just before their termination, the canaliculi pierce the periosteal thickening that constitutes the posterior limb of the inner palpebral ligament. The lachrymal sac lies in a depression in the bone at the inner angle of the orbit (the lachrymal fossa). It is vertically elongated, and narrows at its upper and lower ends; the upper extremity or fundus is closed, while the lower is contin- uous directly with the nasal duct. Laterally, the sac is somewhat compressed, so that its antero-posterior is greater than its transverse diameter. The canaliculi, either separately or by a short common tube, open into a bulging on the outer sur- face of the sac near the fundus. As has previously been mentioned, the sac is surrounded by periosteum, but between this and the mucous membrane forming the true sac-wall there is a loose connective tissue, so that the cavity is capable of considerable distension. The relations of the inner palpebral ligament have already been described; it is to be noted that the fundus of the sac extends above this ligament. The nasal duct reaches from the lower end of the sac to the top of the inferior meatus of the nose, opening into the latter just beneath the adherent border of the inferior turbinated bone. Traced from above, its main direction is downwards, but it has also a slight inclination backwards and outwards. It lies in a bony canal, whose periosteum forms its outer covering. Between this and the mucous mem- brane of the duct there is a little intermediate tissue, in which run veins of consid- erable size connected with the plexus of the inferior turbinated bone. The duct does not usually open directly into the nasal cavity at the lower end of the bony canal, but pierces the nasal mucous membrane very obliquely, so that a flap of mucous membrane covers the lower border of the opening in the bone, upon which flap the tears first trickle after escaping from the duct proper. The sac and nasal duct together constitute the lachrymal canal, lined through- out by a continuous mucous membrane. This membrane presents folds in some situations, especially near the opening of the canaliculi, at the junction of the sac