THE ARTICULA TIONS 248 over the back of the femur in a zonular manner, embracing the posterior aspect of the neck of the femur. The pectineo-femoral band (fig. 237) is a distinct but narrow set of fibres which are individually less marked than the fibres of the other two bands; they are fixed above to the anterior border of the pectineal eminence, reaching as far down as the pubic end of the cotyloid notch. Below, they reach the neck of the femur, and are fixed above and behind the lowermost fibres of the ilio-femoral band, with which they blend. In thickness and strength the capsule varies greatly; thus, if two lines be drawn, one from the anterior inferior spine to the inner border of the femur near the lesser trochanter, and the other from the anterior part of the groove for the external obturator to the digital fossa, all the ligament between these lines on the outer and upper aspects of the joint is very thick and strong, while that below and to the inner side, except at the narrow pectineo-femoral band, is thin and weak, so Fig. 238.—Posterior View of the Capsule of the Hip-joint. that the head of the bone can be seen through it. The capsule is thickest in the course of the ilio-femoral band, towards the outer part of which it measures over a quarter of an inch (6 mm.). Between the ilio-femoral and ischio-femoral bands the capsule is very strong, and with it here, near the acetabulum is incoipmrated the reflected tendon of the rectus, and here also a triangular band of fibres runs downwards and forwards to be attached by a narrow insertion to the ridge on the front border of the greater trochanter near the gluteus minimus (the ilio-trochan- teric band) (fig. 238). The capsule is strengthened also at this point by a strong band from the under surface of the gluteus minimus, and by the tendino-trochanteric band which passes down from the reflected tendon of the rectus to the vastus externus (fig. 237). This is closely blended with the capsule near the outer edge of the ilio- femoral ligament. The thinnest part of the capsule is between the pectineo-femoral and ilio-femoral