821 DISTRIBUTION OF CUTAXEOCS BRAS' HES THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE CUTANEOUS BRANCHES OF THE SENSORY AND MINED NERVES The cutaneous filaments of the sensory and mixed nerves are distributed to definite regions of the surface of the body which are known as " cutaneous areas." Each cutaneous area has one special nerve of supply and the central part of the area receives that nerve alone, but wherever the borders of two areas meet they reciprocally overlap, therefore each margin of every cutaneous area receives two nerves of supply, its own nerve and that of an adjacent area, and of these sometimes one and sometimes the other preponderates. The Cutaneous Areas of the Scalp The limits of the cutaneous areas in the scalp region are indicated in Figs. 469a, 469b, but in general terms it may be said that the skin of the scalp in front of the pinna is supplied by four cutaneous nerves, the mesial part by the supratrochlear and the supraorbital branches of the first division of the fifth cranial nerve, and the lateral part by the temporal branch of the second division, and the auriculo- temporal branch of the third division of the same nerve. The portion of the scalp behind the pinna also receives four cutaneous nerves; laterally it is supplied by the great auricular and small occipital branches of the cervical plexus which contain filaments from the second and third cervical nerves, and mesially it receives the great and smallest occipital nerves which are derived from the internal divisions of the posterior primary branches of the second and third cervical nerves respectively. * The Cutaneous Areas of the Face With the exception of the skin over the posterior part of the masseter muscle the whole of the skin of the face is supplied by the branches of the fifth cranial nerve. The nose is supplied mesially by the supratrochlear, the infratrochlear, and the nasal branches of the first division, and laterally by the infraorbital branch of the second division. The upper eyelid is supplied by the supratrochlear, the supra- orbital, and the lachrymal branches of the first division; the lower eyelid by the infratrochlear branch of the first division and by the infraorbital and the malar branches of the second division. The skin over the upper jaw and the malar bone is supplied by the infraorbital and malar branches of the second division, that over the buccinator muscle by the buccal branch of the third division, and that over the lower jaw, from before backwards, by the mental, buccal, and auriculo-temporal branches of the third division, except a small part near the posterior border which receives its supply from the great auricular nerve. The Cutaneous Areas of the Pinna The upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the pinna are supplied by the luriculo-temporal branch of the third division of the fifth cranial nerve, and the lower third by twigs of the great auricular nerve. The cranial surface of the pinna is supplied in the lower part of its extent by the great auricular nerve, and in the jpper part by the small occipital nerve. The posterior surface of the external uiditory meatus receives filaments from the auricular branch of the tenth cranial lerve. The Cutaneous Aeeas of the Neck The skin over the anterior part of the neck is supplied by the superficial cervical branch of the cervical plexus, which contains filaments of the second and third peryical nerves, and in the lower part of its extent by the suprasternal branch, vhich conveys twigs of the third and fourth cervical nerves (fig. 469a). The lateral >art of the neck receives filaments from the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves