UTERINE— VA GINAL—OB TURA TOR 571 both in front and behind in the middle line of the cervix on to the vagina, and forms, with branches of the vaginal arteries, the so-called azygos artery of the vagina. 5. THE VAGINAL ARTERIES The vaginal arteries come off separately from the anterior division of the internal iliac, or one or more of them may arise in common with the inferior vesical, uterine, or middle hemorrhoidal arteries. They are usually two or three in number. They pass through the pelvic connective tissue to the side of the vagina, supplying its walls, and anastomosing with the corresponding arteries of the oppo- site side, with each other, and with tortuous branches from the artery of the cervix, a branch of the uterine. With this vessel they form a more or less vertical trunk in the median line of the vagina, both back and front. This vessel is known as the Fig. 370.—Scheme of the Ovarian and Uterine and Vaginal Arteries. . Branch Branches Branch fimbriated literine to mind to to extremity of branch ligament isthmus ampulla FALLOPIAN TUBE Azygos ar'ery of vagina azygos artery of the vagina. The lower vaginal arteries extend to the bulb of the vestibule, where they communicate with the bulbar branch of the internal pudic. Small branches extend also on to the rectum. 6. THE OBTURATOR ARTERY The obturator artery comes off from the anterior division of the internal iliac at about the same spot as the hypogastric. Occasionally it arises from the posterior division. It runs forward and downwards a little below the brim of the pelvis, having the obturator nerve above, and the obturator vein below. It here lies between the peritoneum and the pelvic fascia, but pierces the fascia to gain the obturator canal, the aperture in the upper and outer part of the obturator mem- brane. In this course it is crossed by the vas deferens. On emerging from the obturator canal, the artery divides into two branches, an external and an internal, which wind round the margin of the thyroid foramen beneath the obturator externus muscle.