THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 670 vesicles, an anterior, a middle, and a posterior. The ventricles of the brain are afterwards developed from these three cerebral vesicles, and the remainder of the neural tube forms the central canal of the spinal cord. The substance of the brain and cord is formed by thickenings of the wall of this neural tube. The terminal or anterior cerebral vesicle becomes divided into an anterior and a posterior division; the latter persists as the third ventricle, which, with the parts around it, constitutes the thalamencephalon. The anterior division is afterwards differentiated into the cerebral hemispheres or prosencephalon. It becomes at first indented in the middle line, and then completely bilobed. In this way two symmetrical cavities, the right and left lateral ventricles, are formed. The anterior part of the wall of the cerebral vesicle between the two hemi- spheres, thus mapped out, is called the lamina terminalis. The lamina terminalis is carried backwards so as to bound the third ventricle in front, and the aperture of communication (foramen commune anterius), connecting the third with the lateral ventricles, becomes narrowed. The cavity of the middle cerebral vesicle becomes the aqueduct of Sylvius, and the parts developed around it constitute the mid-brain or mesencephalon. The cavity of the posterior cerebral vesicle becomes the fourth ventricle, and its walls are differentiated into the cerebellum and pons Varolii (epencephalon), and into the medulla oblongata- (meten- cephalon). The walls of the lateral ventricles become greatly thickened and form the cerebral hemispheres, constituting the greater part of the mass of the brain. They grow backwards from the position represented in the diagram (fig. 401), and cover the mid- and hind-brain. In front of the lamina terminalis the walls of the lateral ventricles remain thin, and approximate so as to enclose a narrow space, the fifth ventricle. Thus the fifth ventricle differs entirely in its nature from the other ventricles of the brain: it is a separated portion of the interhemispheric or great longitudinal fissure, and has nothing to do with the true ventricular cavities; accord- ing to Testut it is lined by a rudimentary layer of pia mater. Later on, a great transverse commissure (corpus callosum ), which passes from one hemisphere to the other, is developed. It commences in front of the fifth ventricle in the secondarily fused portions of the cerebral walls, and afterwards extends backwards as the hemispheres grow over the mesencephalon. The oldest portion of the cerebral hemisphere, both in the series of vertebrates and in the development of the individual, is the island of Reil with the grey masses which lie subjacent to it (nucleus caudatus and nucleus lenticularis of the corpus striatum). These structures constitute a central portion ( Stammtheil of Schwalbe) which is almost completely invested by the remaining larger part of the hemisphere. The latter forms the less massive part of the wall of the lateral ventricle, and may be called the mantle-wall (Manteltheil of Schwalbe). The ventricular cavities of the brain and the central canal of the spinal cord are lined by a layer of epithelial cells, immediately outside which is a stratum of neuroglia, free from nerve-cells, which is called ependyma. The ependyma around the central canal of the cord is often termed substantia gelatinosa centralis.