251 THE HIP-JOINT The arterial supply comes from (a) the transverse branches of the internal and external circumflex arteries; (6) the external branch of the obturator sends a branch through the cotyloid notch beneath the transverse ligament, which ramifies in the fat at the bottom of the acetabulum, and travels down the round ligament to the head of the femur; (c) the inferior branch of the deep division of the gluteal; and (d) the sciatic arteries. The branch from the obturator to the ligamentum teres is sometimes very large when the branch from the internal circumflex does not also supply the ligament. The gluteal and sciatic send several branches through the innominate attach- ment of the capsular ligament: these anastomose freely beneath the capsule around the outer aspect of the acetabulum, and supply some branches to enter the bone, and others which enter the substance of the cotyloid ligament, There is quite an arterial crescent upon the posterior and postero-superior portions of the acetabulum; but no vessels are to be seen on the inner aspect of the cotyloid ligament. The nerve-supply comes from (a) anterior crural, (b) anterior division of the obturator, (c) the accessory obturator, and (d) the sacral plexus, by a twig from the nerve to the quadratus femoris, or from the upper part of the great sciatic, or from the lower part of the sacral plexus. The muscles in relation with the hip-joint are: in front, the psoas, which is separated from the capsule by a bursa, and the iliacus, which in part arises from the capsule; above are the straight and reflected tendons of the rectus, the reflected tendon being enclosed between the fibres of the capsule, and a band which passes down from the reflected tendon to the vastus externus; also the gluteus minimus, which is closely adherent to the capsule; above and behind are the pyriformis, which sometimes sends a slip into the capsule; the internal obturator, which acts as a powerful strap to the back of the joint, and the two gemelli; below and behind is the external obturator, passing over tbe capsule, whilst a dense band of fibro- cellular tissue connects the sheath of the obturator externus with the capsule along the posterior edge of the muscle; internally is the pectineus. The movements.—The hip-joint, like the shoulder, is a ball-and-socket joint, but with a much more complete socket and a corresponding limitation of move- ment. Each variety of movement is permitted, viz. flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation; and any two or more of these movements not being antagonistic can be combined, i. e. flexion or extension associated Avith abduction or adduction can be combined with rotation in or out. It results from the obliquity of the neck of the femur that the movements of the head in the acetabulum are always more or less of a rotatory character. This is more especially the case during flexion and extension, and two results follow Fig. 242.—Ligamentum Teres, lax in Flexion.