318 THE MUSCLES the seventh and eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves) by branches from the median nerve which enter the deep surface of the muscle at its upper part. Action.—To ilex the second phalanges of the four fingers. Being inserted very obliquely, it acts under a considerable mechanical disadvantage, but at the same time the speed and range of movement corresponding to a slight contraction of the muscle are very great. The size of the angle which it makes with the shaft of the phalanx at its point of insertion is somewhat increased by the raising of its tendon from the palmar aspect of the first phalanx by the tendon of the deep flexor. After bending the second phalanx of the finger, it will bend also the metacarpo- phalangeal joint; then the three joints which together produce flexion of the wrist; and finally it will feebly assist in the flexion of the elbow-joint. Relations.—Superficially, the four muscles of the first sheet and the radial vessels and nerves; deeply, the flexor longus pollicis, flexor profundus digitorum, and pronator quadratus,the ulnar artery and veins, and the median nerve. In the hand, it lies beneath the anterior annular ligament, the palmar fascia, and the superficial palmar arch, and upon the tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum with the lumbricales. Variations.—Tlie flexor sublimis digitorum varies very little in its origin. It has been seen to arise partly from the pronator radii teres. Occasionally its tendon to the little finger tails, and the place of this tendon may be taken by a lumbricalis or a special slip from the flexor profundus. Sometimes accessory heads join the tendons iu the hand from the flexor profundus or the annular ligament. Third Layee The third layer consists of two muscles—the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis—which arise from the ulna and radius respectively. 1. FLEXOR PROFUNDUS DIGITORUM The flexor profundus digitorum—named from its action upon the fingers and its relation to their superficial flexor—is a strong fusiform sheet of muscular fibres which wraps round the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna, and divides below into four tendons for the fingers. Origin.—(1) The upper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the ulna; and (2) the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane; (3) the upper two-thirds of the inner surface of the ulna; and (4) the posterior ridge of that bone by the apo- neurosis common to it, the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the extensor carpi ulnaris. Insertion.—The front of the bases of the third phalanges of the four fingers. Structure.—Arising directly from the bones and fibrous structures which form the origin of the muscle, the fleshy fibres converge below upon the back of four tendons, which, appearing about the middle of the forearm, become free at the upper border of the anterior annular ligament. That part of the muscle which is inserted into the index finger is separable from the rest of the muscle in nearly the whole of its extent; the part to the little finger is also generally more separable than that to the other two fingers. As they pass beneath the anterior annular ligament, the tendons are invested by the common synovial sheath. At the metacarpo- phalangeal joints they enter the vaginal sheaths belonging to their respective ringers. Opposite the first phalangeal joint each tendon passes through the open- ing formed by the splitting of the flexor sublimis tendon; and on the palmar aspect of the second phalanx it passes over a slight elevation formed by the union of the two halves of the companion tendon before they are inserted into the sides of the second phalanx. The deep tendon finally passes over the second phalangeal joint, to be inserted into the front of the base of the third phalanx. In the palm of the hand the lumbricales (which will afterwards be described) arise from the tendons of the flexor profundus. Nerve-supply.—By two sources from the brachial plexus (through the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves):—(1) By the anterior interosseous branch of the median nerve, which sends a filament to the portion of the muscle belonging