THE SKELETON 170 grooved for the passage of flexor tendons. To the sides of the head the lateral ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal joints are attached. The FIRST METATARSAL is the most modified; it is shorter, but much thicker than its fellows. The base presents a reniform, slightly concave facet for the internal cuneiform bone. On the outer (fibular) side of the base, near its lower angle, there is a tubercle into which the peroneus longus is inserted. A little above this, there is frequently a shallow but easily recognised facet where it comes into contact with the base of the second metatarsal. The head of the bone has two deep grooves on the plantar surface for the sesamoids developed in the flexor brevis hallucis muscle. Muscles.—Peroneus longus; tibialis anticus; first dorsal interosseous. Blood-supply.—The nutrient vessel enters the shaft on the fibular side, and is directed towards the head of the bone. The SECOND METATARSAL is the longest of the series. Its base is prolonged backwards to occupy the space between the internal and external cuneiform bones; this leads to the formation of a small facet at the superior angle on the tibial side Fig. 184.—The Second (Left) Metatarsal. where it articulates with the internal cuneiform. It occasionally presents a small facet for the first metatarsal. The outer (fibular) side of the base has two facets, each subdivided in well-marked bones. The dorsal facet is long and narrow; the posterior section articulates with the external cuneiform; the anterior is for the third metatarsal. The lower facet is somewhat circular: its posterior section is for the external cuneiform, the anterior for the third metatarsal. The terminal facet on the base is for the middle cuneiform: thus the second metatarsal articulates with three cuneiform bones. Muscles.—Adductor hallucis; first and second dorsal interosseous. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery enters on the fibular side near the middle of the shaft, and is directed towards the base of the bone. The third metatarsal articulates by its base with the external cuneiform. It has on the inner (tibial) side two facets: one below the other for the second metatarsal, and a large facet on the fibular side for the fourth metatarsal. Muscles.—Adductor hallucis; first plantar; second and third dorsal inter- osseous.