14 THE SKELETON The pedicles of this vertebra are liable to a remarkable deviation from the conditions found in other parts of the spine. The peculiarity consists of a complete solution in the continuity of the arch immediately behind the superior articular processes. In such specimens the anterior part consists of the body carrying the pedicles, transverse and superior articular processes ; whilst the posterior segment is composed of the larninae, spine, and inferior articular processes. The posterior segment of the ring of this vertebra may even consist of two pieces. There is reason to Fig. 15.—Variation in the Fifth Lumbar Vertebra. (After Turner.) believe that this abnormality of the fifth lumbar vertebra occurs in five per cent, of all subjects examined. Sir William Turner, in his report on the human skeletons in the Challenger Reports, found seven examples among thirty skeletons examined. The skeletons in which this occurred were : a Malay, an Andamanese, a Chinese, two Bushmen, an Esquimau, and a Negro. Turner has also seen it in the skeleton of a Sandwich Islander. A similar condition is occasion- ally met with either laterally or bilaterally in the thoracic vertebrae. Fig. 16.—A Variation in the Fifth Lumbar Vertebra. (After Turner.) Each of the five lumbar vertebrae is readily recognisable. The body of the first is deeper behind t han in front, the body of the second is of equal depth in front and behind, the bodies of the third, fourth and fifth are deeper in front than behind, but the third has long transverse pro- cesses and its lower articular facets are not very widely separated ; the fourth has much shorter transverse processes and the lower articular facets are very wide apart, and the fifth is easily dis- tinguished by the special features already described. THE SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL VERTEBRAE In the adult skeleton, the five vertebrae succeeding the lumbar series are firmly ankylosed to form a single bone, the sacrum : the components of the sacrum are termed sacral vertebras. Beyond the fifth sacral, four, and occasionally five, other rudimentary vertebras to which the adjective coccygeal is applied, are ankylosed in adult life, to form a single piece, the coccyx. In advanced life the coccyx unites with the sacrum.