THE MUSCLES 444 4. PTERYGOIDEUS INTERNUS The pterygoideus internus—named from its origin and relative position—is a thick quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—(1) The whole of the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate and the adjacent part of the tuberosity of the palate bone. (2) A small triangular area, consisting of the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, and a small strip in front belonging to the maxilla. Insertion.—The lower half of the internal surface of the ramus of the man- dible, including the adjacent parts of its lower and posterior borders, and extending as high as the mylo-hyoid ridge and inferior dental canal. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the fibres run parallel to one another, downwards, backwards, and outwards, to be inserted partly into the mandible, and partly in multipenniform fashion, like those of the masseter, into the tips and sides of fibrous septa, which, passing upwards from the periosteum of the mandible, separate the muscular bundles from one another. Nerve-supply.—The internal pterygoid branch of the motor portion of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, which enters the deep surface near its poste- rior border. Action.— (1) To close the jaw. The same remarks which were made with respect to the very small loss of mechanical advantage in the masseter muscle apply to this muscle. (2) When closed it will draw the jaw forwards; and also (3) it will help the external pterygoid in drawing the ramus of its own side towards the middle line. Relations.—Superficially, the external pterygoid muscle, the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary vessels, the inferior dental and lingual nerves; deeply, the tensor palati and superior constrictor of the pharynx, the stylo-hyoid muscle and the posterior belly of the digastric, the submaxillary gland. THE MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK The platysma myoides has been already described (page 426) with the muscles of expression. The muscles of the neck which lie beneath it are surrounded by a layer of deep fascia, called the cervical fascia. This is a strong tubular membrane, attached above to the lower border of the mandible, the parotid fascia, the upper part of the mastoid process, and the superior nuchal line. At the back of the neck it is continuous with the deep fascia which gives a thin investment to the trapezius muscle. In front, it is attached to the lower border of the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone. Below, it ends upon the front surface of the presternum and the clavicle. The deep layer of the cervical fascia separates from it just below the hyoid bone, and runs downwards in close proximity to the sterno-hyoid muscles and the other depressors of the hyoid bone, to the upper part of the posterior sur- face of the sternum, and the posterior surface of the clavicle. Laterally, it blends with and completes the sheath^ of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which is partly formed by the superficial layer of the cervical fascia; it also binds down the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid to the clavicle and first rib. Below its attachment to the sternum and clavicle it is continued downwards in front of the trachea and great vessels at the root of the neck into the superior mediastinum, and it finally joins the peri- cardium. Behind, it gives an investment to the depressors of the hyoid bone. Between this deep layer of the cervical fascia and the superficial layer is a small space containing a part of the course of the anterior jugular vein, a lymphatic gland, some fat and loose connective tissue. A still deeper fibrous layer, the prevertebral fascia, stretches across the neck and divides the cylindrical tube formed by the cervical fascia into a posterior and anterior compartment. Its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards. Behind,