707 BASAL GREY COMMISSURE grey matter of the tegmenta of the crura cerebri, and is attached in front to the corpora albicantia. The portion of the space which is situated in front of the exit of the third nerve forms part of the floor of the third ventricle; the posterior part belongs to the mesencephalon. The corpora albicantia appear as a pair of white knobs in the base of the brain. Each contains in its interior a grey nucleus. This nucleus is joined by the anterior pillar of the fornix and the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr of the same side. The bundle of Vicq d'Azyr passes upwards and forwards through the grey matter of the optic thalamus to the anterior tubercle of that body. The tuber cinereum is a grey elevation placed immediately behind the optic commissure. It is the largest part of the basal grey commissure, and is continuous laterally, above the optic tracts, with the grey cortex of the temporal lobes (fig. 421). In front it passes over the optic commissure into the lamina cinerea. It is con- tinued below into a conical process, the infundibulum, which is directed down- wards and slightly forwards, through the central opening in the diaphragma sella? to end in the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. The upper part of the infundibulum is hollowed out by a diverticulum of the third ventricle, the recessus infundibuli. The tuber cinereum and infundibulum correspond to the median recess in the floor of the third ventricle. The pituitary body, or hypophysis cerebri, is a small ellipsoidal body which is lodged in the pituitary fossa of the sphenoid bone. Its long axis is directed transversely, and its antero-posterior and vertical diameters are about equal. The pituitary body consists of two distinct lobes, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior lobe is of a reddish-grey colour, and is considerably larger than the posterior lobe, which it par- tially embraces. The posterior lobe, of a yellowish-grey colour, is lodged in a recess in the anterior lobe, and is the only part connected with the infundibulum. This body was formerly described as the pituitary gland, because it was supposed to secrete the pituita, or mucus of the nose. According to Gaskell's ingenious theory, the infundibulum is the mouth of an archaic alimentary canal. The ventricular system of the brain is the rudiment of the cephalic stomach as found in Arthropods. The central canal of the spinal cord is the archaic intestine, and the neuro-enteric canal (an embryonic communication between the neural tube and the intestine) connects this archaic intestine with the ano-rectal region. This pituitary body is of great interest in the light of this theory, as it brings the archaic mouth to the surface. The posterior lobe is developed in connection with the brain, but the anterior lobe is formed inde- pendently. It originates as an upward growth of the epiblastic invagination which forms the mouth, and is afterwards cut off by the chondrification and subsequent ossification of the skull.