944 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION From the centre of this border a somewhat conical process, the uvula, depends, and from the base of this two folds of mucous membrane on each side extend in an outward and downward direction, receiving the name of the pillars of the fauces. The anterior pillar is formed principally by the palato-glossus muscle, and its direction is downwards, outwards, and forwards to the side of the base of the tongue. The posterior pillar is formed principally by the palato-pharyngeus. It approaches more nearly to its fellow of the opposite side than does the anterior. Its direction is outwards, downwards, and backwards, and there thus exists between it and the anterior pillar a triangular space, the tonsillar recess. The space between the anterior pillars is known as the isthmus of the fauces, and forms the buccal opening of the pharynx. It is bounded below by the tongue, above by the soft palate, and laterally by the pillars of the fauces. The anterior surface of the soft palate is concave, directed forwards and downwards, and is continuous with the lower surface of the hard palate; its poste- rior surface is convex, and is a continuation of the floor of the nasal cavity. The soft palate is composed of a thin but rather dense fibrous aponeurosis, cer- tain muscles, vessels, and mucous glands covered by mucous membrane. In the median line is a raphe which marks the junction of the two halves of which the soft palate originally consists. Muscles.—The muscles of the soft palate are, on each side:—palato-glossus, palato-pharyngeus, levator palati, and tensor palati; and, in the middle line, azygos uvuke. The Palato-Glossus is described on page 453. The Palato-Pharyngeus—-named from its attachments—is a thin sheet. Origin.—(1) From the aponeurosis of the soft palate by two heads which are separated by the insertion of the levator palati; (2) one or two narrow bundles from the lower part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube (.salpingo-pharyngeus). Insertion.—(1) By a narrow fasciculus into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage near the base of the superior cornu; (2) by a broad expansion into the fibrous layer of the pharynx at its lower part. Structure.—The upper head of the muscle consists of scattered fibres which blend with the opposite muscle across the middle line; the lower head is thicker, and follows the curve of the posterior border of the palate. The two heads with the fasciculus from the Eustachian tube form a compact muscular band in the posterior pillar of the fauces; the fibres mingle with those of the stylo-pharyngeus, at the lower border of the superior constrictor, and then expand upon the lower part of the pharynx. Nerve-supply.—From the pharyngeal plexus. Action.^(l ) Approximates the posterior pillars of the. fauces; (2) depresses the soft palate; (3) elevates the pharynx. The Levator Palati—named from its action on the soft palate—is somewhat rounded in its upper, but flattened in its lower half. Origin.—(1) The under surface of the petrosal anterior to the orifice of the carotid canal; (2) the lower margin of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Insertion.—The aponeurosis of the soft palate; the terminal fibres of the muscles of each side meet in the middle line in front of the azygos uvula?. Structure.—Its origin is by a short tendon; the muscle then becomes fleshy, and continues so to its insertion. Nerve-supply.—It is usual to describe this muscle as being innervated by the facial through the petrosal branch of the Vidian. The nerve is supposed to reach the muscle through the small palatine nerve from Meckel's ganglion. Stimulation of the facial trunk within the skull of monkeys produces no result on the soft palate, whereas stimulation of the eleventh causes elevation of the soft palate on the same side. The motor branch probably passes to the palate in the upper branches of the pharyngeal plexus (Horsley and Beevor). Action.—(1) To raise up the palate, and bring it in contact with the posterior wall of the pharynx; (2) when the muscle contracts it presses up and closes the pharyngeal orifice of the Eustachian tube (Cleland). This action is not admitted by many anatomists.