879 THE EAR middle meningeal, whilst fine branches leave the carotid artery as it traverses the carotid canal and pass into the tympanic cavity. The ascending pharyngeal sends branches to the Eustachian tube, some of which reach the tympanum. Veins.—The veins empty into the superior petrosal sinus and into the ternporo- maxillary vein. Nerves.—The tympanic mucous membrane is supplied by the tympanic plexus which occupies the grooves on the promontory and inner wall of the cavity. The plexus is formed by the following nerves. The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which enters the cavity through a foramen in the floor; a communicating branch from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, which passes through the carotid canal. A branch from the great superficial petrosal, which enters by the inner wall close in front of the fenestra ovalis; and one from the small superficial petrosal, which enters near the canal for the tensor tympani. The course of the chorda tympani nerve has already been sufficiently indicated (page 762). THE INTERNAL EAR, OR LABYRINTH The INTERNAL EAR, or labyrinth, is the essential part of the organ of hearing, and receives the terminations of the auditory nerve. The Osseous Labyrinth is divided into three portions: the vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea—recesses hollowed in the substance of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The Vestibule lies between the cochlea and semicircular canals, on the inner side of the tympanum (fig. 489a). It is a laterally compressed ovoidal cavity, and is about one-fifth of an inch in horizontal and vertical measurement. The outer wall presents the fenestra ovalis filled with the foot-piece of the stapes and its annular ligament. On its inner wall there is a small saucer-like depression, the fovea hemispherica, perforated below and in front by several minute orifices (macula cribrosa) for the filaments of the auditory nerve. Imme- diately behind this is a vertical ridge, the pyramidal eminence or crista vestibuli, behind which is the orifice of the aqueductus vestibuli. On the roof there is a second depression, oval in shape, the fovea hemiellip- tica. The two depressions are separated by the pyramidal eminence. Behind, the semicircular canals open by five orifices; and in front by means of a large oval opening, apertura scalae vestibuli, the vestibular cavity com- municates with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea. The Three Semicircular Canals are placed above and behind the vestibule. They are unequal in length, but each forms the greater part of a circle, is laterally