URINARY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS 1056 tenth week, and then continues to increase, becoming considerably the greater by the end of foetal life ; but even at birth the suprarenal bodies are proportionally much larger than in the adult. The urinary bladder appears in the second month as a transformation of the pedicle of the allantois, a structure 'which has already done service in conveying the vessels of the embryo to the placenta. The allantois is a hypoblastic sac invested by a layer of mesoblast, and communi- cating with the hind gut. That portion of it which lies within the body becomes dilated at its central part into the urinary bladder, but remains narrow at both extremities, forming in front the urachus; and behind, the whole urethra in the female, and the upper part of the pros- tatic urethra in the male. The generative apparatus is developed from the Wolffian ducts and from two other paired structures closely related to these, but of somewhat later formation—the Mullerian ducts and the genital glands. From the Wolffian body its tubules and its duct are formed, in the male, the whole of the Fig. 645.—Development of the Urino-geneeative Organs, Female Type. (After Henle.) (The parts formed from the MUllerian duct in this and the succeeding diagram are indicated by horizontal shading ; those formed from the Wolffian body and drxct, by diagonal cross-hatching.) Kound li| I BARTHOL N excretory tubes outside the body of the testicle, namely, the vasa effereutia, the coni vasculosi, the tube of the epididymis, the vas deferens, the ejaculatory duct, and the paradidymis (the organ of Giraldes). In the female the structure dwindles away, leaving its vestiges as the parovarium and the duct of Gartner (the latter being occasionally demonstrable in the human subject). The genital gland arises as a ridge, partly mesoblastic and partly due to a thickening of an epithelial layer, the germinal epithelium, on the inner side of the Wolffian body. The cells, at first indeterminate, soon become differentiated to form the Graafian follicles and ova in the female, and the epithelium of the seminiferous tubes in the male ; the rest of the ovary or testicle being developed from the mesoblast of the ridge. The gland is at first attached to the Wolffian body. The latter is itself fixed to the posterior wall of the abdominal cavity by a duplicature of perito- neum called the mesorchium, or mesovarium, from which a little fold containing muscular fihre is prolonged downwards to become the gubernaculum testis in the male, or, after connection with the uterus, the round ligament in the female.