742 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM (fig. 440a). Its fibres are processes of nerve-cells situated in the vermiform process and the lateral lobe of the cerebellum; they descend to the cord through the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and through the restiform body. The ascending tracts of the antero-lateral column.—The dorso-lateral or direct cerebellar tract occupies the dorsal part of the periphery of the cord on the outer side of the crossed pyramidal tract, extending from the tip of the posterior cornu to the antero-lateral ascending and descending tracts (tig. 440a). It separates the crossed pyramidal tract from the surface, except in the lower dorsal region, where the pyramidal fibres intervene between it and Lissauer's column. Its fibres are processes of some of the cells of Clarke's column, and they terminate in rami- fications in the cerebellum, to which they pass by the restiform body. The antero-lateral ascending cerebellar tract occupies an area in front of the crossed pyramidal tract extending forwards to the region of the anterior nerve-roots. Its fibres are mingled with those of the descending antero-lateral tract, Fig. 440a.—Diagram of the Tracts of the Spinal Cord axd of the Deep Origins of the Spinal Xerves. bl'rdach's col. clarke's col. posterior DIRECT PYRAMIDAL TRACT but they have a more limited anterior extension and thev occupv a broader area posteriorly ; they are processes of nerve-cells of the cord and possibly of the cells of the posterior cornu. They pass upwards through the reticular formation of the medulla and pons; some reach the cerebellum by the superior peduncle and others join the fillet. Lissauer's column is a small bundle of small fibres situated at the apex of the posterior cornu dorsal to the crossed pyramidal and direct cerebellar tracts. It consists of the small fibres from the lateral parts of the posterior nerve-roots which are passing upwards to terminate in the grey matter of higher segments of the cord. The antero-lateral ground bundle embraces the anterior cornu and the outer side of the base of the posterior cornu (fig. 440a): it represents all the antero-lateral column not included in the previously mentioned tracts, and it consists of ascend- ing and descending commissural fibres passing between different segments of the cord.