SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1122 ABOVE. Internal mammary and lower in- ) tercostals j Lumbar Middle sacral with with with Superior hemorrhoidal with \ 11 ^n?l , 1 ( rhoidal. Collateral circulation after ligature of the external iliac BELOW. Deep epigastric. Ilio-lumbar and circumflex iliac. Lateral sacral. and middle haemor- Deep epigastric Deep circumflex iliac Gluteal and sciatic Comes nervi ischiadici Obturator Internal pudic with with with with with with Internal mammary, lower inter- costals, and lumbar. Ilio-lumbar, lumbar, and gluteal. Internal and external circumflex. Perforating branches of profunda. Circumflex and epigastric. External pudic. Collateral circulation after ligature of the internal iliac Sciatic with Branches of profunda. Hemorrhoidal arteries with Inferior mesenteric. Pubic branch of obturator with Vessel of opposite side. Branches of pudic with Branches of opposite side. Circumflex and perforating of \ profunda } with Sciatic and gluteal. Lateral sacral with Middle sacral. Circumflex iliac with Ilio-lumbar and gluteal. THE PERINjEUM AND GENITALS Bony boundaries.—These are the same in either sex. Above and in front is the symphysis pubis, rounded off by the subpubic ligament; diverging downwards and outwards from this point on either side are the rami of the pubes and ischium, ending at the tuberosities of the latter. In the middle line behind is the apex of the coccyx; and reaching from this to the tuberosities are the great sacro-sciatic ligaments, to be felt by deep pressure, with the lower border of the gluteus maximus overlapping them. The depth of the perinseum varies greatly, from two to three inches (30 to 75 mm.) in the posterior and outer part to one inch or less in front. In the middle line, extending longitudinally through the perinseum, is the raphe, the guide to the urethra, and ' the line of safety' (on account of the small size of the vessels here) for operations on it. An imaginary line drawn transversely across the perina?um from one tuber ischii to its fellow divides the lozenge-shaped space into two triangles—(1) An anterior, or urethral; and (2) a posterior, or rectal. The central point of the perinaeum is in the adult nearly an inch (25 mm.) in front of the anus, or midway between the centre of the anus and root of the scrotum. Here the following structures meet, viz., the sphincter ani, the two transverse peri- nasal muscles, the accelerator urinse, and the levator ani. It also corresponds to the centre of the lower margin or base of the triangular ligament. Its development varies much in different bodies. A little in front of this point is the bulb, with the corpus spongiosum passing forwards from it. This would also be the level of the artery of the bulb, so that in lithotomy the incision should always begin below this point. A knife introduced at the central point, and carried backwards and