535 ULNAR interosseous membrane below, the oblique ligament above, and the ulna internally, and, emerging at the back of the forearm between the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the supinator brevis, under cover of the superficial extensors of the forearm, descends between the superficial and the deep muscles, crossing in this course the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor primi internodii pollicis, the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and the indicator (fig. 353). It anasto- moses at the lower border of this muscle with the anterior interosseous, or with the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous which here, as above described, has perforated the interosseous membrane. It is separated from the nerve of the same name at first by the radius and supinator brevis and on the back of the forearm by the extensores secundi internodii pollicis and indicis. It gives off the following branches:—(i) The interosseous recurrent, or pos- terior interosseous recurrent (fig. 353), arises from the posterior interosseous as the latter emerges from beneath the supinator brevis. It runs upwards between the anconeus and supinator brevis, usually under cover of the former, to the inter- val between the external condyle and the olecranon, where it anastomoses with the superior profunda, anastomotica magna, radial recurrent, and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries, and gives branches to the retiform plexus over the olecra- non—the rete olecrani. (ii) Muscular branches are given off to the superficial and deep extensor muscles, (iii) Articular branches enter the back of the wrist-joint. 4. The muscular branches of the ulnar artery supply the contiguous muscles, and are variable in number, origin, and distribution. 5. The nutrient artery of the ulna may be given off from the main trunk of the ulnar artery, or from one of its muscular branches, or from the anterior inter- osseous artery. 6. The posterior ulnar carpal comes off from the ulnar artery a little above the anterior annular ligament, and, winding inwards round the end of the ulna or the internal lateral ligament of the wrist, beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris, ramifies on the back of the carpus beneath the extensor tendons. It forms by its anastomosis with the posterior radial carpal and with the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous and with the posterior interosseous arteries, a plexus or rete, the so-called posterior carpal arch. The branches given off from this plexus or arch are described with the posterior carpal branch of the radial artery (page 541). 7. The anterior ulnar carpal is a small branch given off from the ulnar artery opposite the carpus. It passes beneath the flexor profundus digitorum to anasto- mose with the anterior radial carpal, with terminal twigs of the anterior branch of the anterior interosseous, and with recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch, forming an anastomotic arch across the front of the carpus—the so-called anterior carpal arch or rete. II. Relations of the Ulnar Artery at the Wrist The ulnar artery at the wrist may be said to extend from the upper to the lower border of the anterior annular ligament. It here lies immediately to the radial side of the pisiform bone, and to the ulnar side of the hook of the unciform, the two bones forming for the vessel a protecting channel, which is further converted into a short canal by the expansion of the flexor carpi ulnaris passing from the pisiform to the hook of the unciform. The ulnar nerve in this situation is imme- diately to the ulnar side of the artery. Relations.—In front it has, in addition to the expansion above mentioned, the skin and superficial fascia; below, it rests on the annular ligament; inter- nally are the ulnar nerve and pisiform bone; externally, the hook of the unci- form. The ulnar artery gives off no named branch in this part of its course.