THE ARTICULATIONS 236 around an anteroposterior axis, i.e. abduction and adduction; together with a combination of these in quick succession—circumduction. Lacking only rotation on a vertical axis, it thus possesses most of the movements of a ball-and-socket joint, without the weakness and liability to dislocation which are peculiar to these joints. This deficiency of rotation is compensated for by the movements of the radius at the radio-ulnar joints, viz. supination and pronation. Its strength depends chiefly upon the number of tendons which pass over it, and the close connection which exists between the fibrous tissue of their sheaths and the capsule of the wrist; also upon the proximity of the medio-carpal and carpo-metacarpal joints, which permits shocks and jars to be shared and distributed between them; another source of strength is the absence of any long bone on the distal side of the joint. In flexion and extension the carpus rolls forwards and backwards beneath the arch formed by the radius and fibro-cartilage; flexion being limited by the posterior ligament and posterior portions of the lateral; extension by the anterior, and anterior portions of the lateral ligaments. In adduction and abduction, the carpal bones glide from without inwards and from within outwards. Abduction is more limited than adduction, and is checked by the internal lateral ligament and by contact of the styloid process of the radius with the trapezium; adduction is checked by the external lateral ligament alone. One reason for adduction being more free than abduction is that the ulna does not reach so low down as the radius, and the yielding fibro-cartilage allows of greater movement upwards of the inner end of the carpus. In circumduction the hand moves so as to describe a cone, the apex of which is at the wrist. These movements are made more easy and extensive by the slight gliding of the carpal bones upon one another, and the comparatively free motion at the medio-carpal joint. The oblique direction of the fibres of the lateral