737 THE SPINAL CORD INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE SPINAL CORD In transverse section, each lateral half of the cord is seen to be composed of both grey and white matter, the latter being disposed on the surface. The grey matter is in the form of a crescent, which has been not inaptly compared (by Testut) to a large comma ( , ). The head of the comma looks forwards and constitutes the anterior horn of grey matter; the tail forms the posterior horn, and the convexity looks inwards and is united to the grey crescent of the opposite side by the grey commissure. The two crescents, with the commissure, form a figure resembling a capital H. Within the grey commissure is the central canal of the cord, and in front of the grey commissure, occupying the floor of the anterior longitudinal fissure, is the anterior white commissure. Medullated fibres cross the middle line both in the white and in the grey commissure. The term commissure is somewhat misleading, as the majority of the nerve-fibres which pass from side to side are not commissural but decussating fibres. The grey matter of the cord consists of two vai'ieties: (a) Substantia gelatinosa, and (b) substantia spongiosa. The former (a) covers the head of the posterior horn like a cap (substantia gelatinosa Rolandi),and is also found around the central canal (substantia gelatinosa centralis). The latter is continued into the ependyma of the cerebral ventricles, (b) The substantia spongiosa is much more extensive than the substantia gelatinosa, and contains large nerve-cells. These cells are arranged in definite groups, forming columns in the grey matter. The cell columns in the anterior cornua are arranged as follows: ' These columns are the most constant in all situations, and are believed to supply the spinal muscles. c Best marked opposite the \ * limb nerves to which they y give origin, j In cervical region, gives \ origin to spinal accessory, f In cervical region, gives I origin to phrenic nerve. The cells of the posterior cornu.—The cells of the posterior cornu are less regular than those of the anterior cornu in arrangement, but several groups are described. They are (1) peripheral cells, some of which possess long, curved pro- cesses, and hence are called comet cells; (2) central cells; (3) basal cells; (4) the cells of the substantia gelatinosa; and (5) solitary cells, which are scattered irreg- ularly and which vary in size. The protoplasmic or dendritic processes of the cells of the posterior cornu permeate the gray matter of the cornu; their axis-cylinder processes or axons run in various directions, and their terminations are for the most part unknown; some of them, however, pass to the anterior cornu and to the anterior commissure, and these are believed to issue from the cord as the small fibres of the anterior nerve-roots. Clarke's column of cells ( fig. 440).—This column of cells lies at the base of the posterior cornu internally. It consists of large ovoid cells whose long axes are parallel with the axis of the cord. The column is limited to the dorsal region, but cells of similar nature, occupying a similar position, are found in the lumbar region of the cord opposite the second and third sacral nerves, where they form Stilling's nucleus. Others are recognisable in the cervical region, and they are probably represented in the medulla by the cells of the nucleus gracilis and the nucleus cuneatus. Many of the axons of the cells of this column pass upwards to the cerebellum in the dorso-lateral ascending cerebellar tract, and some are probably distributed, as anabolic or inhibitory nerves, to the blood-vessels, glands, and to the walls of the alimentary canal. The intermedio-lateral tract.—The intermedio-lateral tract or column of 47 f Dorso-mesial. m i Mesial (fig. 440). \ [ Ventro-mesial. f Dorso-lateral. Lateral (fig. 440). I Lateral. Ventro-lateral. \ Mesial.