33 THE SPHENOID thin, forms by its outer surface the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa, and affords attachment to the external "pterygoid muscle. From its inner surface the internal pterygoid takes origin. The internal pterygoid plate is narrower and longer than the external. Its inner surface forms part of the outer boundary of the nasal fossa, and by a thin ledge of bone, called the vaginal process, extends to the under surface of the basi- sphenoid to articulate with the ala of the vomer, and anteriorly with the sphenoidal process of the palate bone. Immediately above this ledge of bone is the pterygo- palatine groove (converted into a canal by the sphenoidal process of the palate bone), for an artery and nerve of the same name. At the point where the internal pterygoid plate comes into relation with the great wing and the lingula, there is the Vidian canal. This canal is 3 cm. long, and transmits the Vidian nerve and artery. The outer surface of the internal pterygoid plate forms the inner boundary of the pterygoid fossa; its posterior border is prolonged into a hamular process, smooth on its under aspect, for the bursa between it and the tensor (circumflexus) palati. From the lower third of the posterior border and the hamular process the superior constrictor of the pharynx takes origin. The anterior borders of these processes diverge below, and have rough edges for articulation with the tuberosity of the palate bone; the gap between them is the pterygoid notch. Superiorly, the pterygoid processes form a triangular surface, which constitutes the posterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and presents above the anterior orifice of the Vidian, and more internally the commencement of Fig. 40.—The Under Surface of Pee-Sphenoid at the Sixth Year. PTERYGOPALATINE GROOVE OPTIC FORAMEN VIDIAN CANAL VAGINAL PROCESS the pterygo-palatine canals. The anterior border of the internal pterygoid plate articulates with the posterior border of the vertical plate of the palate bone. The recess between the two pterygoid plates posteriorly is subdivided. The upper, smaller and shallower depression is the scaphoid fossa ; it gives origin to the tensor (circumflexus) palati externally, and the cartilage of the Eustachian tube internally. The lower, deeper and larger, is the pterygoid fossa; it lodges the internal pterygoid and tensor palati muscles. The fossa is completed by the tuber- osity of the palate bone. Articulations.—The sphenoid articulates with the following bones: ethmoid, frontal, parietal, temporal, epipteric, palate, vomer, occipital, malar, sphenoidal turbinals, and occasionally with the maxilla. Muscles.—It gives origin to the following muscles:— Temporal. Internal pterygoid. External pterygoid. Tensor tympani. Tensor palati. External rectus of the eyeball. Internal rectus " " Superior rectus " " Superior oblique " " Levator palpebral. Ligaments.—The sphenoid has numerous intrinsic ligaments which occasion- ally ossify and produce adventitious foramina. Of these, the more important are:— Inter-clinoid.—This passes from the anterior to the posterior clinoid processes. 3