ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 844 The greatest interval between two neighbouring tendons is that between the superior and internal recti (about 12 mm.); the least is between the superior and external (7 mm.). The form of the lines of insertion of the different tendons varies considerably, the inferior being almost straight, the superior and external convex forwards, the internal further removed from the corneal border below than above. The insertions of the obliques are at more than double the average distance of the insertions of the recti from the corneal border. That of the superior oblique is found on the superior surface of the sclerotic, about sixteen millimetres from the corneal edge, in the form of a line sloping from before backwards and inwards. The inferior oblique has a long fleshy insertion lying between the external rectus and the optic nerve entrance; the posterior end of the insertion, which is also the highest, is only about six millimetres from the optic nerve, and from this point it slopes forwards, outwards, and slightly downwards. Several small nerves and two arteries may be seen running forwards and ulti- mately perforating the sclerotic not far from the entrance of the optic nerve. The two arteries are the long posterior ciliary; they both perforate the globe in the horizontal meridian, one on the outer, the other on the inner side. The short ciliary arteries are too small to be seen in an ordinary examination. The nerves Fig. 474.—Diagrammatic View of the Insertions of the Ocular Muscles. (After Merkel.) are the long and short ciliary. Nearer the equator, the large venous trunks emerge; they can be traced for some distance in front of their exit as dark lines, running antero-posteriorly beneath the sclerotic. The optic nerve is seen in section, sur- rounded loosely by a thick outer sheath; in the centre of the nerve-section a small red spot indicates the position of the central retinal blood-vessels. For ordinary dissections eyes of the sheep, pig, or bullock should be obtained. Divide an eyeball into fore and hind halves by cutting through it in the equatorial plane. 1. Posterior hemisphere seen from in front. This is much the same view that the ophthal- moscope affords us. Unless the eye be very fresh, however, the retina will have lost its trans- parency, and will now present the appearance of a thin whitish membrane, detached in folds from the underlying coats, but still adherent at the optic disc. The vitreous jelly lying within the retinal cup may be torn away. In the human eye the retina next the posterior pole is stained yellow (macula lutea). On turning the retina over, a little pigment may be seen adher- ing to its outer surface here and there. Cut through the retina close to the optic disc all round and remove it : note how easily it is torn. We now see a dark brown surface, consisting of the retinal pigment layer, adherent to the inner surface of the choroid. Brush off the retinal pig- ment under water. The choroid thus exposed can for the most part be fairly easily torn away from the thick sclerotic, as a lymph-space exists between them, but the attachment is firm around the optic nerve entrance, and also where the arteries and nerves join the choroid after penetrating the sclerotic. The choroid is darkly pigmented of a brown colour, with markings on its surfaces corresponding to the distribution of its large veins. The inner surface of the sclerotic