68 1073 THE SKIN By WILLIAM ANDERSON, F.RC.S. STTEGEOJ" TO A5D I.ECTTEEE 0>~ ANATOMY AT ST. THOMAS 5 HOSPITAL: PBOFE95QB OF A-5 ATOMY IS TEX EOT ACAKEMT : FT »VTVfP. tS 5UEGEET AT THE OIVE25ITT OF LOSDOX A2TD ROYAL COLLEGE OF STBGE05S OF ESGLAJTD The skin is a membranous investment forming the entire external surface of the body and its members, and is continuous at certain points with the internal lining of the alimentary, respiratory, and urinogenital canals. Its extent has been estimated at about 15.000 square cm. in an adult male of medium size (Sappey). In thickness it varies considerably in different portions of the surface, ranging from to yV of an inch (0*5 to 2 mm.), but appears to be pro- portionate to the amount of pressure or friction to which the parts are habitually subjected. Thus it is thickest upon the nape. back, and shoulders, and on the palms and soles, while on the front of the trunk and on the dorsal aspect of the hands and feet it is relatively thin. It is highly elastic and is capable of stretch- ing to a considerable extent without rupture of its continuity, and of regaining its original condition when the extending force is removed. This quality is espe- cially remarkable in the distension of the integuments over a slow-growing tumour. Its colour is due partly to pigmentation, partly to the blood within its vessels. The amount of pigment varies with race. sex. age. and with exposure to sun and air; and is normally greater in certain portions of the skin ( axilla, scrotum, vulva, mammary areola?, etc.) than on the rest of the surface, besides being subject to physiological and pathological variations. Its -surface is for the most part smooth, but is diversified by the orifices of glands, by the growth of hair, and by various furrows and elevations. Permanent linear ridges are present upon the palms and soles, and flexor surfaces of the digits: and temporary papular elevations ('goose-flesh') may appear in the positions of the hair-follicles under the influ- ences of cold or emotion. The permanent ridges, corresponding to rows of dermic papilla?, have an arrangement of a peculiar kind over the front of the terminal joints of the fingers, and their variations have been classified in such a manner as to prove valuable for purposes of identification. In primitive races the imprint of the thumb has been used as a kind of signature. The furrows or depressions are of several kinds. The most permanent are those which separate the papillary ridges on the palm. Relaxed portions of the skin, such as that of the back of the hand during extension of the wrist and fingers, are crossed by a multitude of fine decussating wrinkles, which disappear when the sur- face is stretched; other lines of a more constant type are produced by joint flexion, such as those in front of the wrist; others are caused by contraction of voluntary or involuntary muscles, such as the lines of expression on the forehead space, the transverse wrinkles on the scrotum, and the radiating folds around the anus, the fines then running at right angles to the direction of the muscular fibres by which they are produced: lastly, a complex wrinkling of the skin appears in old age or in the course of exhausting diseases, partly as a result of loss of elasticity of the structures and partly from absorption of the cutaneous and subcutaneous fat. In addition to these linear depressions are more rounded forms, called dimples,