THE ORGANS OF VOICE 908 portion of the crico-thyroid membrane and some of the lower fibres of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle. The central portion of the crico-thyroid membrane appears in the angular interval between the two muscles. The crico-arytenoideus posticus arises from the quadrate surface situated on each side of the posterior median ridge of the cricoid cartilage. Its fibres rapidly converge to be inserted into the posterior portion of the outer angle (muscular process) of the arytenoid cartilage. Fig. 529.—Scheme of Kima, showing Action of Crico-arytenoideus Posticus, which draws the Arytenoid Cartilage from I to II. (Modified from Stirling.) The upper fibres are chiefly concerned in rotation of the arytenoid cartilage, whilst the lower produce its gliding movement. It is a dilator of the rima glottidis. Some of the lowest fibres occasionally pass to the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, and are known as the kerato-cricoideus or kerato-thyroideus. It is covered posteriorly by mucous membrane, and is supplied by the recurrent laryngeal nerve. A few of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus arise from the ridge which separates the two muscles. Fig. 530.—Posterior View of Thyroid Cartilage with Epiglottis. GREATER CORNU OF HVOID BONE BODY OF HVOID BONE Thyro-hyoid ligament Median notch Origin of thyro-epiglottic ligament POSTERIOR EDGE OF THYROID CARTILAGE Origin of thyro-aryte- noideuB muscle INFERIOR CORNU SMALLER CORNU OF HYOID BONE CARTILAGO TRITICEA SUPERIOR CORNU OF THYROID CARTILAGE RIGHT ALA OF THYROID CARTILAGE False vocal cord True vocal cord Origin of thyro-epiglot- tideus muscle The crico-arytenoideus lateralis arises from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage between the origin of the crico-thyroid and the crico-arytenoid articulation. It narrows to be inserted into the fore part of the muscular process of the aryte- noid cartilage. It draws the cartilage forwards, relaxing and approximating the cords. It is overlapped by the thyroid cartilage, and anteriorly by the crico-thyroid