445 STERNO- CL BID 0-MASTOW it rests in the middle line upon the ligaments covering the front of the bodies of the cervical vertebrae. Laterally, it covers in the prevertebral muscles, and is attached to the deep surface of the superficial layer of the cervical fascia between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. In the compartment formed between the deep layer of the cervical fascia as it invests the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the prevertebral fascia, processes are given off which form the sheath of the great vessels of the neck, and invest the thyroid gland, the trachea, and pharynx. The muscles of the front of the neck may be divided into three groups: the first group consisting of one muscle which ascends from the sternum and clavicle to the head, the sterno-cleido-mastoideus; the second, of those which ascend from the sternum, clavicle, and shoulder-blade to the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage; the third, of those which are attached to the hyoid bone below, and the skull and lower jaw above. First Group STERNO-GLEIDO-MASTOID The sterno-cleido-mastoid, or sterno-mastoid muscle—named from its attachments (x/Ut's = a key, being the equivalent of clavicle)—is a strong ribbon- shaped band, bifurcated below, and somewhat constricted in its middle third. Origin.—Sternal head : the front of the manubrium (or presternum) between the notches for the clavicle and first ribband the middle line. Clavicular head : The upper part of the anterior surface of the inner third of the clavicle. Insertion.—(1) Along the anterior border and the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone; (2) the outer half of the superior nuchal line of the occipital bone. Structure.—The sternal head is a rounded but flat tendon; the clavicular is partly fleshy and partly tendinous. After a course of about an inch (2-5 cm.), the sternal head expands into a flat muscle, which conceals the greater part of the clavicular portion, and, passing upwards, outwards, and backwards, is spread over the whole line of the upper attachment. Frequently it is so separate from the clavicular head, that they might very fairly be considered to form two muscles. The clavicular head soon becomes entirely fleshy and ascends more directly. At first it is separated by a small interval from the sternal head, corresponding to a part of the sterno-clavicular joint, from which it sometimes receives a few fibres of origin; when they have joined, it passes beneath the sternal head to its insertion, which is chiefly the lower part of the outer surface of the mastoid process. The whole insertion in front is composed of short tendinous fibres, and behind of a thin aponeurosis. As the whole muscle has a very wide range of action, nearly the whole length of its fibres is fleshy. The sternal head is a little longer than the other, but has little if any more range of movement. Hence it is tendinous. Nerve-supply.—(1) The spinal accessory nerve, which, while traversing the deep surface of the muscle at the junction of its upper and middle thirds, sends filaments to it; (2) the cervical plexus through the anterior primary branches of the second and third cervical nerves, which enter the upper part of its deep surface. Action.—(1) To flex laterally the head and neck, so as to draw the side of the head towards the shoulder. (2) To rotate the face towards the opposite side. Of the two parts of the muscle, the cleido-mastoid portion is more concerned in lateral flexion, the sterno-mastoid in rotation. The combination of all these movements may be very well seen in a case of wry-neck, which results from the permanent contraction of this muscle. (3) When both muscles act, to flex the head and neck upon the thorax, at the same time raising slightly the chin, which is therefore carried horizontally forwards. (4) To raise the sternum and inner end of the clavicle. This action may sometimes be seen in patients with paralysis of all the parts beneath the cervical region, when the only nerves available for respiratory