839 SECTION YI ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE THE EYE By R. MARCUS GUNN, M.A., RR.C.S. SURGEON TO THE ROYAL LONDON OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL, MOORFIELDS ; OPHTHALMIC SURGEON TO THE NATIONAL HOSPITAL THE EYEBALL AND ITS SURROUNDINGS General Surface View This examination is to be made prior to any disturbance of the parts, and is, indeed, best conducted on the living body. A pocket magnifying lens should be at hand for use when required. THE two eyes are situated nearly in the line where the upper and middle thirds of the face meet; they lie right and left of the root of the nose, the most prominent part of the front of each globe being about an inch and a quarter from the middle line of the face. Each eye is overshadowed by the corresponding eyebrow, and is capable of being concealed by its eyelids, upper and lower. The orbital margin may be traced all round with the finger. At the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the upper margin, the supraorbital notch can usually be felt, and the supraorbital nerve passing through it can sometimes be made to roll from side to side under the finger. The inner margin is the most difficult to trace in this way, partly because it is more rounded off than the others, partly because it is bridged over by a firm fibrous band (tendo oculi, or inner palpebral liga- ment), passing inwards from the eyelids; below this band, however, a sharp bony crest is felt, which lies in front of the lachrymal sac. Note how the eye is pro- tected by the rim of the orbit, above and below; if we lay a hard flat body over the orbital opening, it will rest upon the upper and lower bony prominences, and will not touch the surface of the globe. Inwards, the eye is protected from injury mainly by the bridge of the nose; outwards it is most readily vulnerable, as here the orbital rim is comparatively low. With one finger placed over the closed upper lid, now press the eyeball gently backwards into the orbit, and observe the elastic resistance met with, clue to the fact that the globe rests posteriorly on a pad of fat. The space between the free edges of the upper and lower lids is known as the palpebral aperture : it is a mere slit when the lids are closed; but when they are open its shape is, roughly, that of an almond lying with its long axis horizontal, and about thirty millimetres in length. When the eyes are directed to an object straight in front of them, this aperture is about twelve millimetres wide, but its width varies with upward and downward