562 THE ARTERIES THE OVARIAN ARTERIES The ovarian arteries are the homologues of the spermatic arteries in the male, and correspond in their relations in the upper part of their course. They diverge somewhat less however, and on reaching the level of the common iliac artery turn inwards over that vessel and descend tortuously into the pelvis between the folds of the broad ligament to the ovaries. In the broad ligament the ovarian artery lies below the Fallopian tube, and on reaching the ovary turns backwards and supplies that organ (fig. 370). They give off the following branches:—(1) Ureteral; (2) Fallopian; (8) uterine; and (4) ligamentous. (1) The ureteral is distributed, as in the male, to the ureter. (2) The Fallopian supplies the isthmus and ampulla of the Fallopian tube and its fimbriated extremity. (3) The uterine runs along the Fallopian tube to the superior cornu of the uterus, which it supplies, together with the upper part of the fundus uteri, and anastomoses with the uterine arteries from the internal iliac. (4) The ligamentous is distributed to the round ligament, passing with that structure through the inguinal canal, and anastomosing with the cremasteric and superficial external pudic arteries. Like the spermatic, the ovarian arteries in the foetus come off at right angles to the aorta, and pass transversely outwards to the ovaries, which are formed, as are the testicles, in the right and left loin in front of the kidneys. They elongate as the ovaries descend into the pelvis. During pregnancy these arteries undergo great enlargement. THE INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY The inferior mesenteric artery, smaller than the superior, arises from the front of the abdominal aorta about an inch and a half above the bifurcation of that vessel. It runs obliquely downwards and to the left, across the lower part of the abdominal aorta and then over the left psoas muscle and left common iliac artery, descends into the pelvis between the layers of the meso-rectum, and terminates on the rectum in the superior hemorrhoidal or superior rectal artery. It at first lies behind the peritoneum, or in the left lumbar meso-colon when that structure is present. It supplies the lower half of the large intestine. Its vein lies at first close to the left side, but soon passes upwards on the psoas, away from the artery, to end in the splenic vein (fig. 367 ). The branches of the inferior mesenteric are:—(1) The left colic; (2) the sigmoid; and (3) the superior hemorrhoidal. (1) The left colic runs transversely outwards and to the left, beneath the peri- toneum, and divides into two branches, one of which, entering the transverse meso- colon, ascends upwards and to the right, to anastomose with the middle colic. The other descends, and, entering the sigmoid meso-colon, anastomoses with the ascending branch of the sigmoid artery. The distribution of this artery and the next to the colon is similar to that of the colic branches of the superior mesenteric, and does not require a separate description. (See Superior Mesenteric Artery, pages 559, 560.) (2) The sigmoid artery runs downwards and to the left over the psoas muscle, and, entering the sigmoid meso-colon. divides into two branches; the upper anasto- mosing with the left colic, the lower with the superior hsemorrhoidal. (3) The superior haemorrhoidal is the continued trunk of the inferior mesen- teric. It descends into the pelvis, behind the rectum, between the layers of the mcso-rectum. On reaching the wall of the bowel it bifurcates, one branch proceed- ing on either side of the gut, to within four or five inches of the anus. Here each again divides, and the branches, piercing the muscular coat, descend between that coat and the mucous membrane, forming with each other, and with the middle hsemorrhoidal arteries—derived from the internal iliac—a series of small vessels, running longitudinally to the rectum, and parallel to each other as far as the level