THE ARTERIES 502 (h) The Palpebral Branches The palpebral branches arise either separately or by a common trunk from the ophthalmic artery opposite the pulley for the superior oblique, just as the latter vessel is about to divide into its terminal branches. They pass, one above and one below the internal tarsal ligament or tendo oculi, and then skirt along the upper and lower eyelids respectively, near the free margin between the tarsal cartilages and the orbicularis muscle, and form a superior and inferior palpebral arch by anastomosing with the palpebral branches of the lachrymal. The upper also anastomoses with the supraorbital artery and orbital branch of the temporal artery; the lower with the infraorbital, the angular branch of the facial, and the transverse facial arteries. A branch from the lower palpebral passes with the nasal duct as far as the inferior meatus. Small twigs are also given to the caruncle and conjunctiva. (?) The Frontal Branch The frontal branch, the upper of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, pierces the tarsal membrane at the inner angle of the orbit, passes upwards over the frontal bone, beneath the orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii, supplies the structures in its neighbourhood, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, with the supraorbital, and with the anterior division of the super- ficial temporal artery. (k) The Nasal Branch The nasal, the lower of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, leaves the orbit at the inner canthus by perforating the tarsal membrane above the tendo oculi. It then descends along the dorsum of the nose, beneath the integuments; and anastomoses with the angular and lateral nasal branches of the facial. It gives off a lachrymal branch as it crosses the lachrymal sac, and a transverse nasal branch as it crosses the root of the nose; the latter vessel anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. (6) THE POSTERIOR COMMUNICATING ARTERY The posterior communicating artery (fig. 340) is given off from the internal carotid just before the division of that vessel into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries; occasionally it arises from the middle cerebral itself. It is as a rule a slender vessel which runs backwards over the optic tract and crus cerebri along the side of the uncinate convolution to join the posterior cerebral. At times, however, it is of considerable size, and contributes chiefly to form the posterior cerebral, the portion of the latter vessel between the basilar and posterior communicating being then as a rule reduced to a mere rudiment. It gives off the following branches:— (a ) the uncinate, to the convolution of that name; and (b) the middle thalamic, to the optic thalamus. (7) THE ANTERIOR CHOROID ARTERY The anterior choroid is a small but constant vessel, which arises as a rule from the back part of the internal carotid just external to the origin of the posterior communicating. It passes backwards on the optic tract and the crus cerebri, at first lying parallel and a little external to the posterior communicating artery, and then, turning slightly outwards, dips under the edge of the uncinate convolution, and, entering the transverse fissure at the lower end of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, ends in the choroid plexus and supplies the hippo- campus major and corpus fimbriatum.