CAVITY OF THE ORBIT 857 of rotation at right angles to one another. By rotation of the eye on its vertical axis the cornea is moved outwards (towards the temple), and inwards (towards the nose): movements called respectively abduction and adduction. In upward and downward movements of the cornea, the eye rotates on its horizontal equatorial axis. The other principal axis of rotation is the sagittal, which we have previously described as corresponding to the line joining the anterior and posterior poles of the globe (page 843). In rotation of the eye on its sagittal axis, therefore, the cornea may be said to move as a wheel on its axle, for its centre now corresponds to one end of the axis; in other words, this is a rotation of the cornea. Such movements may, consequently, be expressed with reference to their effect on an imaginary spoke of the corneal wheel—e.g. one running vertically upwards from the corneal centre. Thus we may say ' rotation of the cornea outwards ' when this part of the wheel moves towards the outer canthus, or 'inwards' when towards the nose. The only two muscles that rotate the eyeball merely on one axis are the external rectus and the internal rectus; the former abducting, and the latter adducting the cornea. The chief action of the superior rectus is to draw the cornea upwards, but at the same time it adducts and rotates the cornea inwards. The inferior rectus mainly draws the cornea downwards, also adducting it and rotating it outwards. The chief action of the superior oblique is to rotate the cornea inwards, also drawing it downwards and slightly abducting it. The inferior oblique mainly rotates the cornea outwards, also drawing it upwards and slightly abducting it. The fasciae of the orbit.—The orbital contents are bound together and sup- ported by fibrous tissues, which are connected with each other, but which may conveniently be regarded as belonging to three systems. These are: (1) Those lining the bony walls; (2) those ensheathing the muscles; and (3) the tissue which partially encapsules the eyeball. 1. The orbital periosteum, or periorbita, is closely applied to the bones form- ing the walls of the cavity, but may be stripped off with comparative ease. It presents openings for the passage of vessels and nerves entering and leaving the orbit. Posteriorly this tissue is very firm, being joined by processes of the dura mater at the optic canal and sphenoidal fissure; at the optic foramen it is also