THE SKELETON 86 The posterior cranial fossa is the deepest portion of the cavity. It is bounded by the dorsum epbippii and the superior borders of the petrosals, the mastoid portion of the petrosals, the posterior inferior angle of the parietals, and the squamo- occipital below the level of the crest (supra-occipital). The upper limits are indicated by the grooves for the lateral sinuses. It is marked by the following sutures:—the petro-occipital, occipitomastoid, parieto-mastoid, and, in young skulls, the basilar suture. The ridges limiting this fossa give attachment to the tentorium cerebelli, and the fossa lodges the cerebellum with the pons and medulla. It communicates with the general cranial cavity by means of the foramen of Pacchionius when the ten- torium is in situ. It has the following objects of interest :— The clivus, extending from the dorsum ephippii to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. This is in relation with the basilar artery, the pons, the medulla, the sixth nerves and the basilar sinus. I The notch for the sixth nerve on each side of the dorsum ephippii. This is sometimes a foramen, termed the petro-sphenoid. The foramen magnum, presenting on each side a tubercle for the check liga- ments; and the anterior condyloid foramen (sometimes subdivided by a spicu- lum of bone) for the hypoglossal nerve. Behind the foramen there is a vertical ridge of bone, the internal occipital crest, for the falx cerebelli. This sometimes presents a depression known as the vermiform fossa. The anterior boundaries of the fossa present :— A notch for the passage of the fifth nerve. This is a foramen when the ten- torium is present. The internal auditory meatus, for the facial and auditory nerves, and the auditory branch of the basilar artery. The jugular foramen, which transmits the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves, the internal jugular vein, the meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery, aqueductus vestibuli and hiatus subarcuatus. The termination of the groove for the lateral sinus, with the internal orifice of the mastoid foramen. The cranium of an average European has a capacity of 1450 cc. The circumfer- ence, taken in a plane passing through the ophryon anteriorly, the occipital point posteriorly, and the pterion laterally, is 52 cm. The length from the ophryon to the occipital point is 17 cm.; the width between the parietals at the level of the zygomata is 12-5 cm.; and the height from the basion to the bregma is nearly the same. The cranio-facial angle is about 96°. THE TEETH An adult individual with perfect dentition possesses thirty-two teeth, equally distributed to the maxilla and mandible. The upper set are called maxillary teeth and the lower set mandibular. The four central teeth in each dental arch are termed incisors; the tooth next these on each side is the canine; behind these are two premolars or bicuspids; and lastly, three molars. This relation of teeth is expressed by means of a formula:— .2 1 2 3 _ % _ c — prm—m — — 32. 2 V 2 3 Each tooth has a portion coated with enamel exposed above the gum—named the crown; and a portion coated with cementum embedded in bone—this is the root. The line of union of the crown and root is termed the neck. The surface of the tooth directed towards the lips and cheek is called labial and buccal respectively, and that towards the tongue lingual. It is also necessary to apply definite terms to the opposed surfaces of teeth, hence the surface directed towards the middle line of the mouth if the alveolar arch were straightened out is median, and the opposite side is distal. Each tooth has distinguishing fea- tures.