ZYGOMATICUS MAJOR—RISORIUS 437 1. ZYGOMATICUS MAJOR The zygomaticus major—named from its origin from the zygoma and its size —is ribbon-shaped, and belongs to the first layer of the muscles. Origin.—The outer surface of the malar bone near the zygomatic suture. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin, and the subcutaneous tissue at the outer extremity of the upper lip, and just external to the commissure of the lips. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, the muscle forms a fleshy band which passes downwards and forwards to the meeting-point of the angular muscles at and external to the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the orbicularis oris and the other angular muscles, its outermost fibres passing into the outer fibres of the depressor anguli oris. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, which enters the middle of its deep surface. Action.—To draw upwards and outwards the corners of the mouth, as in smiling or laughter. When it is strongly contracted, it throws into prominence the soft parts of the cheek in front of the malar bone, raises the lower eyelid, and produces 'crow's feet,' as the wrinkles are called which radiate outwards from the outer canthus. When both muscles act together, the mouth is widened, and the upper lip raised so as to show the upper teeth, in what is called a ' broad grin.' Relations.—Superficially, the skin; deeply, the buccinator and facial part of the orbicularis oris, the facial and transverse facial arteries, the facial vein, and some branches of the facial nerve. 2. LEVATOR ANGULI ORIS The levator anguli oris—named from its action upon the corner of the mouth —is a triangular sheet and belongs to the second stratum of the facial muscles. Origin.—The canine fossa of the maxilla. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin, and the subcutaneous tissue, close to the corner of the mouth. Structure.—-Arising muscular from its broad origin above the canine and bicuspid teeth, the fibres converge in a downward and outward direction, and blend with the other angular muscles outside the corner of the mouth. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial at the outer part of the anterior surface. Action.—To raise the corner of the mouth, but at the same time to draw it inwards. Relations.—Superficially, the zygomaticus minor and levator labii superioris, the infraorbital vessels and nerves; deeply, the facial portion of the orbicularis oris. 3. RISORIUS The risorius—named from its supposed action in laughter—is flat and ribbon- shaped, and belongs to the superficial layer of muscles, being a part of the platysma myoides, and often very small and ill-developed. Origin.—The subcutaneous tissue overlying the deep fascia which covers the masseter and parotid gland. Insertion.—The subcutaneous and muscular tissue external to the angle of the mouth. Structure.—It is a band of parallel fibres which runs transversely forwards from the upper and posterior part of the platysma to the corner of the mouth. Nerve-supply.—The buccal branch of the lower division of the facial nerve which enters it from beneath. Action.—To widen the mouth by drawing its corner directly outwards. It is not used in the expression of pleasure like the zygomaticus major, but it gives a