INTERNAL CAROTID 497 branches, which run upwards and forwards, giving small twigs to the mucous membrane covering the upper part of the septum, and which pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and anastomose with the ethmoidal arteries (perforating or meningeal branches). THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY The internal carotid (fig. 338) arises with the external carotid at the bifurca- tion of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, on a level with the fourth cervical vertebra. It is at first placed a little external to the Fig. 338.—The Internal Carotid Artery, and Deep Branches of the External Carotid Artery, Left Side. (From a dissection in the Hunterian Museum.) External carotid artery, cut Temporal artery I Internal maxillary artery Transverse facial artery STENSON'S DUCT, TURNED FORWARDS Superior oblique Splenius capitis, cut Third part of occipital artery I Superior constrictor Ascending palatine ar. Ascending pharyngeal artery External carotid artery, cut short Stylo-p'haryngeus Stylo-glossus Facial artery toid, cut Digastricus Posterior auricular First part of [ar. occipital artery Priuceps cerricis ar. Occipital part of vertebral artery Inferior oblique, cut Coinplexus, cut Lingual artery Sernispinalis colli Vertebral artery Complexus. cut Ascendini] cervical artery Deep cervical . artery SUBMAXILLARY GLAND Superior thyroid artery Sterno-mastoid, cut Rectus capitis antieus major external carotid, but as it ascends in the neck the external carotid becomes more superficial and in front of the internal. The internal carotid passes up the neck, in front of the transverse processes of the upper cervical vertebra? lying upon the rectus capitis antieus major to the carotid foramen, thence through the carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, making at first a turn forwards and inwards and then a second turn upwards, and enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum medium. It then makes a sigmoid curve on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and terminates, after perforating the dura mater, by