399 INFRA COS TA LES—DIA PHRA GM 5. INFRACOSTALES The infracostales, or subcostales—named from their position beneath the ribs —form a thin musculo-membranous sheet lining the back of the thorax external to the tubercles of the ribs; broader and better developed below, becoming narrower and thinner above. Frequently it consists of only a few bundles of fibres which can be distinguished from the internal intercostals by the fact that they are not confined to one intercostal space. Origin.—The lower part of the inner surface of the ribs near their angles. Insertion.—The upper part of the inner surface of the ribs, each bundle of fibres usually passing over one rib to be inserted upon the next higher. Structure.—The fibres arise tendinous, run upwards and outwards, and have tendinous insertions. The higher fibres run more vertically. The lower approach nearer to the vertebral column, arising from the ribs just external to their tubercles. Nerve-supply.—The intercostal nerves, which enter their outer surface. Action.—To depress the ribs, and assist in expiration. Relations.—-Externally, the external and internal intercostal muscles; intern- ally, the parietal layer of the pleura, which is separated from them by a thin aponeurosis sometimes called the endothoracic fascia. 6. THE DIAPHRAGM The diaphragm—named from its function as the did<ppayij.a, or partition wall between the thorax and abdomen—is a dome-shaped musculo-membranous sheet of a kidney-shaped outline when seen from above, and consists of a pair of muscles with a lateral origin and a central aponeurotic insertion, resembling the two transversales abdominis, which unite in the linea alba so as also to form a single dome-shaped biventral muscle. Origin.—By three portions:— 1. Anterior or sternal portion.—The lower border and back of the ensiform cartilage, and the adjacent part of the back of the anterior aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis. 2. Lateral or costal portion.—The lower borders and inner surfaces of the cartilages of the six lower ribs, and sometimes also from the adjacent part of the ribs. 3. Posterior or vertebral portion.—(1) The ligamentum arcuatum exter- num, a fibrous thickening of the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia, which stretches from the tip of the transverse process of the second lumbar vertebra to the tip of the last rib; (2) the ligamentum arcuatum internum—a fibrous thickening of the iliac fascia, which arches over the upper part of the psoas from the side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra to the tip of its transverse process; (3) the crus of the diaphragm—a strong vertical band, fleshy externally, tendinous internally— arising on the right side from the front of the bodies of the first to the third or fourth lumbar vertebrae, from the intervening vertebral discs, and the anterior common ligament; on the left side, from the bodies of the first to the second or third vertebrae only, as well as the discs and anterior common ligament. Insertion.—The front, sides, and back, of the central tendon. Structure.—The fibres, arising fleshy from their extensive origin, pass at first vertically upwards, and then arch inwards to be attached to the borders of the central tendon. The sternal fibres are the shortest, and they are often separated from the costal portion by a small triangular interval filled with areolar tissue, and giving passage to the superior epigastric vessels. The costal origin forms a series of teeth which do not correspond accurately with the number of ribs, some rib cartilages having two teeth attached to them. They interdigitate with the serrations of the transversalis abdominis (fig. 301). The aponeurotic fibres which form the inner portion of the two crura, after arching in front of the abdominal aorta, are continued by fleshy fibres which decussate, and so changing sides form a loop round the oesophagus before joining the central aponeurosis.