ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 888 A fibrous septum separates the halves of the tongue and extends in the middle plane from base to apex; and a strong fibrous membrane, the hypoglossal mem- brane, passes from beneath the base of the tongue to the body of the hyoid bone. The Muscles of the Tongue.—The muscles of the tongue are both extrinsic, and special or intrinsic. The extrinsic muscles are the hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, palato-glossus, and a small part of the superior constrictor. (For extrinsic mus- cles of tongue see pages 451-454.) The intrinsic muscles.—The lingualis superior constitutes a superficial longitudinal stratum, which extends from the base to the tip of the organ, imme- diately beneath the mucous membrane. The fibres form short fascicles attached to the overlying tissues, and are placed between the hyo- and stylo-glossi muscles of the opposite sides of the tongue, both pairs of which, near the base, overlap the fibres of the lingualis. The inferior lingualis is composed of two bands which reach from the base to the apex on the under surface of the tongue. Posteriorly some of the fibres become attached to the body of the hyoid bone. Each of these bands is placed between the hyo- and genio-hyo-glossus, and near the tip some of its fibres mix with those of the stylo-glossus muscle. The transverse fibres mixed with fat lie between the two muscles just de- scribed, and form a considerable part of the bulk of the tongue. They take origin from the median fibrous septum, and, curving outwards and upwards, are inserted into the sides and dorsum of the organ. The vertical fibres decussate with the transverse, and pass from the dorsum to the under surface of the tongue in curves with their concavities looking outwards. The fibres become shorter as they approach the margin of the tongue. Arteries.—The arteries are derived from the lingual, facial, and ascending pharyngeal. Nerves.—The nerves are—the lingual branch of the mandibular division of the fifth, which supplies the papillae of the fore part and sides of the tongue; the lingual branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which supplies the base and sides, in- cluding the circumvallate papilla?; the fine branches from the superior laryngeal, which reach the root close to the epiglottis, and a lingual branch from the facial (Testut). The hypoglossal supplies the muscular substance of the tongue, as well as most of the extrinsio muscles; and the chorda tympani through the facial contrihutes also some filaments.