THE ARTERIES 530 back of the lower end of the humerus immediately above the olecranon fossa. From this arch or rete small twigs enter and supply the elbow-joint. (rZ) A nutrient artery is sometimes given to the upper end of the humerus. (e) Muscular branches to the triceps. Chief variations.—The superior profunda may arise (a) from the axillary artery iu common with one or more branches of that vessel; or (b) as a common trunk with the inferior profunda, (c) It may give off the posterior circumflex, which then runs upwards behind the teres major to reacli the back of the shoulder. (2) The Inferior Profunda Artery The inferior profunda arises from the inner side of the brachial, usually about the level of the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, at times as a common trunk with the superior profunda. It passes with the ulnar nerve obliquely downwards and inwards through the internal intermuscular septum, and then along the inner head of the triceps to the back of the internal condyle where, under cover of the deep fascia and the origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris from the olecranon and internal condyle, it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anastomotica magna arteries. It frequently supplies the nutrient artery to the humerus. It gives branches to the triceps, to the elbow-joint, and a branch which passes in front of the internal condyle to anastomose with the anterior ulnar recurrent. Chief variations.—(1) The inferior profunda may arise (a) with the superior profunda ; (6) from a trunk common to several other branches of the axillary and brachial arteries. (2) It may be absent, its place being taken by the anastomotica magna. (3) The Anastomotica Magna Artery The anastomotica magna arises from the inner side of the brachial, about two inches above its bifurcation into the radial and ulnar arteries, and, running down- wards and inwards across the brachialis anticus, divides into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. The posterior pierces the internal intermuscular septum, winds round the internal condyloid ridge of the humerus, and pierces the triceps, between which and the bone it anastomoses with the articular branch of the superior profunda artery, and to a lesser extent with the interosseous recurrent, forming an arterial arch or rete round the upper border of the olecranon fossa. The anterior branch passes downwards and inwards between the brachialis anticus and pronator teres, and anastomoses in front of the internal condyle, but beneath the pronator teres, with the anterior ulnar recurrent. From this branch a small vessel passes down behind the internal condyle to anastomose with the posterior ulnar recurrent and inferior profunda arteries. Chief variations.—(a) The anastomotica magna may take the place of the inferior profunda. (b) It may be very small, the inferior profunda taking its place. (4) The Nutrient Artery of the Humerus The nutrient artery of the humerus comes off from the brachial about the level of the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or from the inferior profunda, or from one of the muscular branches. It passes obliquely downwards through the nutrient foramen, and on entering the medullary canal of the humerus divides into an ascending and a descending branch, of which the latter is the larger. (5) The Muscular Branches of the Brachial The muscular branches are irregular in their number, origin, and distribution. They vary from about five to eight, usually come off from the outer part of the artery, and are distributed to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus muscles. The nutrient artery of the humerus frequently arises from the upper- most muscular branch.