939 THE FCETAL HEART the auricle; and lies in the auriculo-ventricular groove on the posterior surface of the heart. Its cardiac orifice with the coronary (Thebesian) valve has already been described. Besides the tributary veins already named, a small oblique vein of Marshall may sometimes be traced from the vestigial fold to the sinus. This little vein, which is not always pervious or easy of demonstration, never possesses a valve at its orifice, and like the coronary sinus formed a part of the left superior vena cava of early foetal life. The sinus also receives the posterior interventricular vein, one or more right auricular branches, and several post-ventricular veins from the back of the left ventricle. The cardiac nerves descend into the superior mediastinum, passing in front of and behind the arch of the aorta, to unite in the formation of the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses. The deep cardiac plexus, the larger and more important, is placed immediately above the pulmonary artery at its point of division, lying between the trachea and arch of the aorta. It is usually formed by the interlacement of all the cardiac branches, with the exception of the left superior cardiac branch from the sym- pathetic and the left inferior cardiac from the pneumogastric. A meshwork of branches descends from the plexus, some passing to the right and some to the left. The greater number of the right branches follow the course of the right coronary artery to form the right coronary plexus; some, however, pass forwards to enter the superficial cardiac plexus. The left branches, which are both larger and more numerous, descend beneath the corresjwnding pulmonary artery to join the left coronary plexus; some of these pass right and left to join the anterior pulmonary plexuses at the roots of the lungs. The superficial cardiac plexus, which lies in front of the right pulmonary artery as it passes beneath the arch of the aorta, is formed by the interlacement of the left superficial cardiac branch from the sympathetic, the inferior cardiac from the pneumogastric, together with branches derived from the deep plexus. A small ganglion, the cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg, is sometimes found close to the right side of the ductus arteriosus. The greater number of the filaments from this plexus go to the right coronary plexus. Some, however, reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus. The coronary plexuses follow the course of the vessels, and their filaments enter the muscular walls of the heart. Minute ganglia are connected with these filaments, and are especially abundant near the auriculo-ventricular groove. Peculiarities of the Fcetal Heart The foetal heart is at first almost vertical in position, but during the latter half of intra-uterine life it gradually assumes the oblique position it retains in the adult. Its weight in relation to the body varies considerably. Thus at the second The black connecting arrows indicate the course of the circulation through the head and neck, tile upper extremities, the lungs, the liver, and the lower extremities. The red arrows show the direction of the current from the placenta, through the umbilical vein, ductus venosus (d. V.) and liver, to the upper portion of the inferior vena cava. The red arrows with the blue tails and the dotted line show the course of the impure blood, as it enters the right auricle through the inferior vena cava, and traverses the foramen ovale, guided by the Eustachian valve, to gain the left auricle, left ventricle, and aorta, to be distributed by its chief branches to the head and neck and upper extremities. The blue arrows are placed on the superior and inferior venae cavae, and some of their main tributary trunks. The stream derived from the superior cava passes through the right auricle—in front of that already described—to reach the right ventricle ; thence it passes into the pulmonary artery (a small portion only reaching the lungs through the right and left pulmonary branches), ductus arteriosus, and descending aorta. The stream derived from the inferior cava mixes with the blood of the umbilical vein, and that which has passed through the liver, beyond the junction of the ductus venosus and hepatic veins. The blue arrows with the red heads show the course of the blood through the descending- aorta to the lower extremities, and through the umbilical arteries to the placenta. The colours of the arrows roughly indicate the proportion of pure and impure blood to the different parts of the circulation.