1070 URINARY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS lobes of somewhat pyramidal form, with their bases at the periphery and the apices converging towards the mammilla. They are held together and supported by a fibrous capsule, which sends inwards deep interlobular processes, to form a loculated framework for the glandular elements; and superficial processes running to the skin and enclosing supra-mammary fat-containing spaces or adipose fossae. The posterior aspect of the capsule also encloses other fat-spaces (retro-mammary) and is attached to the deep fascia over the pectoralis major by loose connective tissue, the bands of which may be separated by large lymph-spaces, the so-called ' sub- mammary bursa?.' Finally, isolated collections of fat (intra-mammary) may be found buried amidst the lobules of the gland. It is the fat lying in the sub- cutaneous adipose fossa? and between the gland lobules that gives smootlmess and uniformity of surface to the breast, and when it becomes absorbed during lactation or in conditions of emaciation, the lobular structure of the gland is distinctly manifest. Structurally each of the component lobes may be regarded as a modified sebaceous gland, and hence an appendage of the skin. Each is provided with a single excretory tube (lactiferous or galactophorous duct), which on approaching the Fig. 657.—The Female Mamma during Lactation. (After Luschka.) Areola Adipose loeulus Gland loeulus nipple is dilated into a sinus or ampulla, and finally ends by a constricted orifice at the apex of the nipple. The acini and smaller tubes are lined with cubical epithelium, which becomes replaced by columnar cells in the excretory ducts. Accessory glands of small size—half a line to two lines in diameter, and to the number of five to fifteen—are normally found under the skin of the areola, and open on to the summit of the nipple. Tbe gland as a whole is not circular in outline, but usually presents three cusps —one towards the sternum, sometimes overlapping the bone; the others towards the axilla, one above and the other below; smaller extensions, moreover, pass from the base of the gland to the deep fascia, and may pierce it and he upon or in the fibres of the pectoral muscle (Heidenhain). These processes are commonly left behind in amputation of the breast, and may form nuclei for recurrent growth in malignant disease. The mammilla and areola are specially modified portions of the mammary integument. The mammilla is placed a little internal and inferior to the centre of the gland, and points forwards and outwards. It is of somewhat conical form, averaging about half an inch in length, and terminating by a rounded extremity which is pierced by the orifices of the lactiferous ducts. It is of pinkish colour,