SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1120 higher than is usually supposed to be the case, the upper two-thirds of the right and all the left kidney being behind the ribs. To mark them in from the front the following points should be noted: The upper extremity should reach as high up as the seventh costal cartilage, close to the costo-chondral junction. The lower end, about four and a half inches below this point, should be above a line drawn horizontally through the umbilicus, though it is to be remembered- that the right often encroaches upon this line. Eelatively to the vertebrae, the kidneys lie along the sides of the last thoracic and the first three lumbar. A vertical line carried up to the costal arch from the centre of Poupart's ligament has one-third of the kidney to its outer side, and two-thirds to its inner side, i.e. between this line and the median line of the body. The distance between the two '■ kidneys and between each viscus and the middle line is thus given by Thane and Godlee: The position of the superior pole is indicated by a spot about two inches from the middle line, the hilum is placed at the same distance, and the inferior pole about two and a half to three inches from the middle line. The shortest dis- tance between the two kidneys, ' at the upper part of their mesial borders,' meas- ures about two and a half inches. Fig. 689.—Transverse Section of the Abdomen through the Kidneys and Pancreas, at the level of the first Lumbar Vertebra. (Braune.) Inferior cava Round ligament Rectus EIGHTH RIB SIGMOID FLEXURE DESCENDING COLON External oblique TRANSVERSE COLON SEVENTH RIB / ASCENDING COLON DUODENUM — Obliquus externus NINTH RIB " PLEURA TENTH RIB Splenic vein Descending aorta BODY OF FIRST LUMBAR VERTEBRA ELEVENTH RIB TWELFTH RIB On the posterior surface of the body the kidney's boundaries are indicated by the following:—(1) A line parallel with, and one inch from, the spine, between the lower edge of the tip of the spinous process of the eleventh thoracic and the lower edge of the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra; (2) and (3) lines drawn from the top and bottom of this line outwards, at right angles to it, for two inches and three-quarters; (4) a line parallel to the first, and connecting (2) and (3). Within this parallelogram the kidney lies (Morris). The spleen (figs. 588 and 589).—This lies very,obliquely from above down- wards, and from within outwards, in the left hypochondrium: thus its long axis corresponds closely with the line of the tenth rib. It is placed opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs externally, being separated from these by the dia- phragm; and internally it is connected with the great end of the stomach. Below, it overlaps slightly the outer border of the left kidney (figs. 690, 709, 710, and 711). Its highest point is on a level with the spine of the ninth thoracic, and its lowest with that of the eleventh thoracic vertebra. Its inner end is distant about an inch and a half from the median plane of the body, and its outer about reaches the mid-axillary line (Godlee). In the natural condition it cannot be felt; but if enlarged, its notched anterior margin extends downwards towards the umbilicus, and is both characteristic and readily felt.