BRANCHES OF THE SACRAL PLEXUS 813 ligaments, and then, perforating the former ligament, runs between it and the gluteus maximus. It then winds round the border of that muscle, behind the ischio-rectal fossa, and supplies the integument covering the lower and inner part of the muscle (rigs. 464 and 466). TERMINAL BRANCHES.—1. The pudic nerve arises by three roots from the anterior divisions of the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves, and escapes from the pelvis by passing through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the pyriformis. It crosses the posterior surface of the small sacro-sciatic ligament, near the attach- ment of that ligament to the spine of the ischium, and to the inner side of the pudic vessels. It then accompanies the pudic vessels through the small sacro- sciatic foramen, and enters a canal formed by a delamination of the parietal pelvic fascia (Alcock's canal), and, having given off the inferior haemorrhoidal nerve, terminates by dividing into the perinseal nerve and the dorsal nerve of the penis. At its origin, the pudic nerve is often connected in a plexiform manner with the nerve to the obturator internus. Fig. 467.—A Dissection of the Nerves in the Gluteal Eegion. (The gluteus maximus and gluteus medius have been divided near their insertions, and thrown upwards.) INFERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE Gluteal artery Gluteus maximua BRANCH TO GLU- TEUS MAXIMUS SUPERIOR GLUTEAL KER VE NERVE TO TEXSOR FASCI.E FEMORIS Tendon of obturator externus Vastus externus Gluteus maximus (a) The inferior haemorrhoidal nerve pierces the wall of Alcock's canal, and passes inwards through the fatty tissue which occupies the ischio-rectal fossa. It is deeply placed at the outer part of the fossa, but becomes superficial as it approaches the anus. It divides into terminal twigs, some of which supply the external sphincter ani, while others are distributed to the adjacent integument. (b) The perinaeal nerve runs for a short distance in Alcock's canal at a lower level than the pudic vessels, and then divides into cutaneous and muscular divisions. The cutaneous division takes the form of two nerves, which are termed posterior and anterior superficial perinatal nerves. The posterior or external superficial perinaeal nerve escapes from Alcock's canal at the anterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, pierces the base of the triangular ligament, winds round the transverse perinseal muscle, and passes forwards under cover of Colles's fascia. It then divides into several long slender twigs, which communicate with the anterior super- ficial perinaeal and long pudendal nerves, and end in the integuments of the scrotum. In the female they are distributed in a similar manner to the labium majus. The