THE BRAIN AND THE WALLS OF THE CRANIAL CAVITY 729 fissure is immediately above the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius; it lies beneath the point of intersection of the auriculo-bregmatic line with a line drawn from the stephanion (the point where the temporal ridge cuts the coronal suture) to the asterion (Macalister). In skulls of a sagittal length of 18 cm. and over this point is 45 "5 per cent, of the horizontal arc from the glabella to the inion, and in skulls of less than 18 cm. it is 46 per cent, of the same arc posterior to the glabella. The position of the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius varies; its posterior part is always under cover of the parietal bone and it terminates either in front of or below the parietal eminence, but the anterior part may be above, beneath, or below the squamo-parietal suture. In the adult the anterior part of the fissure runs upwards and backwards from the posterior end of the spheno- Fig. 433.—Drawing of a Cast of the Head of an Adult Male. (Prepared by Professor Cunningham to illustrate cranio-cerebral topography.) parietal suture along the anterior part of the squamo-parietal suture to fts highest point; thence it continues in the same direction beneath the parietal bone towards the lambda, terminating either in front of or below the parietal eminence. In the child, however, the fissure is considerably above the line of the squamo-parietal suture (fig. 434), which it gradually approaches, attaining its adult position about the ninth year; this change of position, which occurs during the first nine years, is due partly to the ascent of the sutural line and partly to the descent of^the fissure on the surface of the brain. The upper end of the external parietooccipital fissure usually lies about 5 mm. in front of the lambda, and the course of the fissure may be indicated by a line drawn from 5 mm. in front of the lambda to a point immediately above the asterion, and, as the latter point corresponds with the pre-occipital notch on the