THE NECK 1101 at a varying level the outer border of the clavicular origin, must be remembered in such operations as tenotomy here. These veins are joined by numerous transverse branches, and become larger below. The anterior jugular vein, commencing in the submaxillary region, descends a little to one side of the middle line. Just above the clavicle each vein turns outwards and, piercing the deep cervical fascia, passes under the sterno-mastoid, and opens into the external jugular or subclavian vein. It has no valves. Behind the sterno-clavicular joint lies the commencement of the innominate veins, the bifurcation of the innominate artery on the right, and the common carotid artery on the left; deeper still lie the pleura and lung. The occasional high position of the innominate on the trachea may be a point of importance in tracheotomy, both at the time of the operation and later on, from the fatal facility with which a metal tube, if long retained after a low tracheotomy, may ulcerate into the vessel. Fig. 675.—Anterior and Lateral Cervical Muscles. In front of the sterno-mastoid is the anterior triangle, which is subdivided into three smaller triangles by the digastric muscle above, and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid below. These smaller triangles are called, from above, the submaxillary, the superior and inferior carotid triangles. The submaxillary or supra-hyoid triangle is bounded above by the jaw, and a line drawn back to the mastoid process; below, by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles; and in front by the middle line of the neck. This space contains the submaxillary gland, and embedded in the gland is the facial artery; deeper than the gland are the sub- mental vessels and the mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve. Posteriorly, and separated from the above structures by the stylo-mandibular ligament, is the upper part of the external carotid artery which is embedded in the parotid gland, where it gives off its two terminal and the posterior auricular branches. More deeply lie the internal jugular vein, internal carotid artery, and the vagus.