681 FISSURES OF CEREBRUM THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES The cerebral hemispheres constitute about 87.5 per cent, of the entire brain, and viewed from above, present an ovate form, broader behind than in front. They contain the lateral ventricles in their interior. They are separated from one another by the great longitudinal fissure, the floor of which is formed by the corpus callosum, a great commissure which connects each hemisphere with its fellow. Each hemisphere ju^esents for examination four surfaces, supero-external, inferior, internal, and tentorial, and two extremities or poles, an anterior and a posterior; the anterior pole presenting an edge flattened internally and bevelled externally; the posterior forming a blunt rounded point which is directed backwards with an inclination downwards. With the exception of a small portion of the inferior sur- face, the cerebral hemispheres are entirely covered with fissures or sulci, which mark off intervening elongated elevations termed convolutions or gyri. By this means the surface area of the brain and consequently the proportion of grey to white matter is very greatly increased. The general arrangement of the convolutions in the two hemispheres of the same brain is tolerably symmetrical, but minor differ- ences always occur. These differences are more particularly seen when there is any striking deviation from the normal arrangement, as such abnormalities are usually confined to one hemisphere. The supero-external surface is convex, presenting a sharper curve in the transverse than in the antero-posterior direction. It is marked off from the internal surface at the great longitudinal fissure by a well- defined edge. It is divided for about its middle third into a superior and an inferior segment by the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius which lies above the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The internal surface is flattened, and is separated from the opposite hemisphere by the falx cerebri and the subarachnoid space. The infe- rior surface is divided into two parts by the stem of the fissure of Sylvius; the pos- terior part is formed by the anterior end of the temporal lobe which is rounded and prominent, constituting the temporal pole. In front of the Sylvian fissure is the orbital area of the frontal lobe, which is concave and adapted to the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The tentorial surface is directed downwards and inwards; it is concave and rests upon the tentorium cerebelli. Fissures.—Under this term are included: («) narrow intervals formed by the approximation of parts primitively widely separated, and (b) fissures due to infoldings of the ventricular wall for a part or the whole of its thickness. Only two fissures are included in the former category, viz. the great longitudinal and the great transverse fissures of the cerebrum, (a) The great longitudinal fissure extends from the frontal to the occipital pole of the cerebrum and separates the hemispheres from one another, except where they are joined by the corpus callosum. It contains the falx cerebri and the anterior cerebral vessels. The great trans- verse fissure will be described with the anatomy of the lateral and third ventricles. (b) The remaining fissures present a very distinct division into complete and incomplete. The complete fissures are formed by an infolding of the entire thick- ness of the ventricular wall, so that the reverse of each complete fissure appears as a bulging into the cavity of the ventricles. The complete fissures comprise the dentate fissure, the collateral fissure, the calcarine fissure, and parieto-occipital fissure. The fissure of Sylvius is sometimes described as a complete fissure, 'but the projection into the hemisphere cavity which corresponds with it (viz. the corpus striatum) is not formed by an infolding of the mantle wall, but as an elevation on the floor of the prosencephalon. The surface area corresponding to this internal projection does not keep pace with the mantle, as the latter grows around it, and in consequence the Sylvian depression makes its apjiearance.' (Cunningham.) Interlobar fissures.—Certain fissures are termed interlobar because they have been selected to determine the boundaries of the various lobes into which the hemispheres have been (somewhat artificially) divided. These are the parieto- occipital fissure and the fissures of Sylvius and of Rolando. The parieto-occipital fissure appears as a well-marked vertical sulcus on the posterior part of the inner face of the hemisphere, and is continued outwards