THE ARTERIES 4S4 platysma, and deep fascia. Here it lies on the middle constrictor muscle and superior laryngeal nerve. After ascending a short distance, it curves downwards and forwards beneath the hypoglossal nerve, and, in the second part of its course, runs horizontally along the upper border of the hyoid bone, beneath the hyo-glossus, by which it is separated from the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoid muscles, and the lingual vein. In this part of its course it lies successively on the middle constrictor of the pharynx and the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, and crosses a small triangular space known as ' Lesser's triangle,' the sides of which are formed by the tendons of the digastric, the base by the hypoglossal nerve, and the floor by the hyo-glossus muscle, in which situation it is usually tied. In the third part of its course it ascends tortuously, usually beneath the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus, to the under surface of the tongue, and is thence continued to the tip of that structure lying between the lingualis and the genio-hyo-glossus muscles. From the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus to its termination, it is only covered by the mucous membrane of the under surface of the tongue. This part of the vessel is sometimes called the ranine artery. Fig. 333.—Scheme of the Right Lingual Aeteey. Palato-glossus (Walsham.) Descending palatine artery Palato-pharyugeus TONSIL Ascending palatine branch of facial Tonsillar branch of dorsalis linguai Tonsillar branch of facial Stylo-glossus Dorsalis lingua artery Middle constrictor HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE Facial artery Posterior belly of digastric and stylo-hyoid Su/tra-hyoid branch SUP. LARYNGEAL N. Infra-hyoid branch Internal carotid artery Ranine artery _ Genio-hyo- glossus Artery of ^p^TjOO— Hyo-glossus >.. i^/ _ Subungual artery Genio-hyoid Anterior belly of digastric Submental artery Superior thyroid artery Common carotid artery Branches of the Lingual Artery The named branches of the lingual artery are:—(1) The hyoid; (2) the dorsalis lingute; (3) the sublingual; and (4) the ranine. (1) The hyoid, or supra-hyoid (fig. 333), is a small vessel which arises from the first part of the lingual, and courses along the upper border of the hyoid bone, superficial to the hyo-glossus, but beneath the insertion of the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoid. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the infra-hyoid, a branch of the superior thyroid artery, and supplies the contiguous muscles. (2) The dorsalis linguae (fig. 333) arises from the second portion of the lingual artery, usually under cover of the posterior edge of the hyo-glossus muscle. It ascends to the back of the dorsum of the tongue, and, dividing into branches, supplies the mucous membrane on each side of the V formed by the circumvallate papillae. It also supplies the pillars of the fauces and the tonsil, where it anasto- moses with the other faucial and tonsillar arteries. Instead of a single artery, as above described, there may be several small vessels running directly to the parts mentioned. The artery anastomoses in the mucous membrane by very small