997 THE PERITONEUM parietes has never closed, and the protruding loop of bowel has never been quite withdrawn into the abdomen. The sac of such a hernia is made out of the tissues of the umbilical cord, and the contents are usually the caecum and lower part of the ileum, and not infrequently a Meckel's diverticulum. As has been mentioned already, the caecum may be found near the middle line or in the right hypochon- driac region (page 971). It is then spoken of as undescended. Final changes in the peritoneum.—Further changes in the position of the intestine and in the arrangement of the peritoneum are finally brought about, and these changes are almost entirely limited to the human subject. The intestine grows, and other abdominal viscera are encroaching upon the peritoneum. This membrane is mobile, is easily drawn from one point to another, and is capable of considerable adjustment. It does not, however, continue to grow at the same rate as the viscera which it serves to cover. The peritoneum is relatively more extensive in the foetus than in the adult, and in the lower mammals than in man. If the viscera grow out of proportion to the peritoneum, it is evident that the reflections of that membrane must here and there be shortened; and it is possible that a viscus which was at one time entirely covered by peritoneum may in due course become almost bared of it. This is so. In the diagram (fig. 598) a trans- verse section of the body is imagined, the section traversing the spot where the duodenum and transverse colon are in relation at the neck of the great common Fig. 597.—Diagram to show the Rotation of the Intestinal Canal. mesentery. Here, by reason of the rotation of the intestine from left to right, the mesenteric lamina has become folded upon itself (A, fig. 598). The fold would be V-shaped, open above, but coming to a point below. On transverse section the meso-duodenum (m-d) and transverse meso-colon (m-c) can be seen side by side. Now a constantly increasing demand upon the peritoneum is made by the rapidly growing viscera. The membrane is drawn in this direction and in that. There is some symmetry, however, within the abdomen, and the membrane may be conceived to be drawn equally upon in the direction of the arrows r and l. The result of such traction upon the peritoneum in this particular instance will be to lessen the length of the transverse meso-colon, and to use up the meso-duo- denum altogether (fig. 598, B). That piece of bowel is indeed at last left uncovered by peritoneum behind, and is brought into contact with the posterior parietes. The serous membrane which formed the meso-duodenum has been utilised to afford a covering for adjacent viscera, which are increasing in size, and are pushing the peri- toneum before them as they advance. In this particular region of the abdomen the growth of the liver, stomach, and spleen make great demands upon the adjacent peritoneum. As has been already said, it is evident that the growth of the general sac of the peritoneum does not keep pace with the growth of the structures it covers,