423 THE MUSCLES Insertion.—The posterior border of the epicranial aponeurosis, about one inch and a half (3-7 cm.) above the superior nuchal line of the occipital bone. (2) The frontalis—a curved sheet of somewhat quadrilateral shape, with a convex upper, and a concave lower border. Origin.—The epicranial aponeurosis, about half-way between the coronal suture and the orbital arch. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin of the eyebrow and of that which occupies the space at the root of the nose between the eyebrow and the middle line. (3) The epicranial aponeurosis forms the central tendon of the occipito- frontalis, and its attachments will lie described with the structure of the muscle. Structure.—The occipitalis is thin and pale, and arises by short tendinous inter- mingled with muscular fibres, and, after passing in parallel lines for about one inch and a half (3*7 cm.) upwards, it is inserted into the epicranial aponeurosis, a strong curved sheet, which occupies the whole of the surface of the skull from the superior nuchal lines behind to the eyebrows in front, and is continued laterally over the temporal fascia of either side to about the level of the external auditory meatus. Above, it is tendinous, and composed of fibres which run from behind forwards. It is thin in front and behind, where it forms a sort of sheath to the occipitalis and frontalis muscles; but near the median line behind, it is thick where it fills up the interval between the occipitales. Laterally, it becomes very thin, and is lost in the loose connective tissue superficial to the temporal fascia after having given origin to the attrahens and attollens aurem muscles. In front, a narrow triangular slip, with the base upwards and the apex between the eyebrows, is left between the frontales, which are larger and somewhat thicker than the occipitales. The fibres of the frontales run in parallel bundles downwards and slightly inwards, and are lost in the subcutaneous fat of the eyebrows; while near the middle line a small slip is continued upon the bridge of the nose as the pyramidalis, after entering into close relation with the deep surface of the skin at the junction of the forehead and nose. Nerve-supply.—The occipitalis receives one of the divisions of the post- auricular branch from the facial or seventh cranial nerve. Its filaments enter the deep surface of the muscle close to the outer border. The frontalis is supplied by the temporal branch of the temporo-facial divi- sion of the facial nerve which is distributed to the deep surface near its outer border. Action.—The occipitales draw back the epicranial aponeurosis, and with it the scalp, which is intimately attached to its superficial aspect. Acting from behind, the frontales raise the eyebrows. If these are fixed by the contraction of the orbicularis palpebrarum, the frontalis will draw forwards the epicranial aponeu- rosis and scalp. When both occipitales and frontales contract, they raise the eyebrows to the utmost extent, and throw the skin of the forehead into transverse wrinkles, as in the expression of surprise or horror. At the same time, on account of the direction of the hair-bulbs, which lie with a forward slant behind and a backward slant in front, there will be a simultaneous tendency to lift the hair shafts, and to make them ' stand on end, like quills upon the fretful porcupine.' When the frontalis alone contracts, taking its fixed point from above, a slight elevation of the eyebrow is produced, as in the expression of attention. This is also accompanied by a transverse wrinkling of the forehead. Relations.—Superficially, the epicranial aponeurosis and its muscles are in very close connection with the skin of the scalp and forehead, being only separated from it by granular fat which is contained in small compartments formed by fibrous septa extending from the aponeurosis to the deep surface of the skin. In the fat lie the hair-bulbs and blood-vessels of the scalp. Beneath, it is separated from the pericranium and temporal fascia by very loose connective tissue. Variations.—The occipitalis may be continuous with theretrahens aurem. The frontalis may have insertions into the external or internal angle of the frontal bone, the nasal process of the maxilla, or the nasal boue.