VARIATIONS IN ARCH OF AORTA 471 (1) Variations in the Aortic Arch itself The variations in the aortic arch itself may for the most part be traced to abnormalities in development of the embryonic structures from which the three portions of the arch and the pul- monary arteries and ductus arteriosus are derived, i.e. (a) the primitive ventral aortic stem; (b) the fourth and fifth branchial arches ; and (c) the dorsal aortic stems. (a) Variations depending on Abnormalities in Development of the Ventral Aortic Stem These variations are closely associated with abnormalities of the pulmonary artery and heart. They depend upon deficient development of the septum which normally divides the anterior stem into the first portion of the aorta and the pulmonary artery. The following are some of the chief variations :— (1) The aorta and pulmonary artery may arise as a single stem from a simple heart. The septum here is completely absent. The condition resembles the normal state in fishes. (2) The aorta and pulmonary artery may be more or less conjoined, and the septum of the heart incomplete. This is analogous to the normal condition in reptiles. (3) The aorta and pulmonary artery may be transposed. (4) The aorta or pulmonary artery may be in part obliterated, and the blood carried into the remainder of the affected vessel through an abnormal opening beyond the obliterated part. Fig. 325.—Scheme of the Eelations of the Third Portion of the Arch of the Aorta. (Walsham.) (b) Variations depending on Abnormalities in Development of the Fourth and Fifth Aortic or Branchial Arches (1) The aorta may be double, the normal condition in amphibians, each arch giving off a corresponding carotid and subclavian artery. This abnormality is explained by the persistence of the right fourth aortic arch and right descending aortic stem, as well as the corresponding parts on the left side. _ The trachea and oesophagus pass through the arterial circle thus formed. (2) The aortic arch may turn over the right bronchus instead of over the left. This is the normal condition in birds, and is explained by the persistence of the right fourth aortic arch and right descending aortic stem and the obliteration of the corresponding parts on the left side. _ (3) The pulmonary artery may be given off from the aorta. This condition is due to the obliteration of the anterior part of the fifth branchial arch and the persistence of the posterior part which normally constitutes the ductus arteriosus. (c) Variations depending on Abnormalities in Development of the Dorsal Aortic Stems The right subclavian may arise from the third part of the arch of the aorta. It then passes be- hind the trachea and oesophagus, and in front of the vertebral column, to gain the interval between the right scalene muscles. The explanation of this abnormality is that the right fourth arch, from which the right subclavian is normally developed, is obliterated, whilst the right posterior aortic stem remains pervious as far as the spot where it normally joins the right fourth arch, the blood thus passing through the aortic stem instead of the arch. The recurrent laryngeal nerve in these cases runs straight to the larynx, since, the fourth arch being obliterated, the nerve is no longer hooked down by it. Rudiments of the right aortic stem frequently persist as the aberrans branch of the superior intercostal artery and thoracic aorta.