176 SECTION II THE AETIOULATIONS By HENRY MORRIS, M.A., M.B., Loud.: ER.C.S.Exg. SENIOR SURGEON TO AND LATE LECTURER ON SURGERY (FORMERLY LECTURER ON ANATOMY) AT THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL ; MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL AND OF THE COURT OF EXAMINERS OF THE ROY AL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, ENGLAND; EXAMINER IN SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON THE section devoted to the Articulations or Joints deals with the union of the various and dissimilar parts of the human skeleton. The following struc- tures enter into the formation of joints. Bones constitute the basis of most joints. The articular ends are expanded, and are composed of cancellous tissue, surrounded by a dense and strong shell of compact tissue. This shell has no Haversian canals (the vessels of the cancellous tissue turn back and do not perforate it), or large lacuna?, and no canaliculi, and is thus well adapted to bear pressure. The long bones articulate by their ends, the rlat by their edges, and the short at various parts on their surfaces. The Cartilage which covers the articular ends of the bones is called articular, and is of the hyaline variety. It is firmly implanted on the bone by one surface, while the other is smooth, polished, and free, thus reducing friction to a mini- mum, while its slight elasticity tends to break jars. It ends abruptly at the edge of the articulation, and is thickest over the areas of greatest pressure. Another form of cartilage, the white fibrous, is also found in joints:—■ (l) As interarticular cartilage in diarthrodial joints—viz.. the knee, temporo- mandibular, sterno-clavicular, radio-carpal, and occasionally in the acromio- clavicular. It is interposed between the ends of the bones, partially or completely div iding the synovial cavity into two. It serves to adjust dissimilar bony surfaces, adding to the security of, while it increases the extent of motion at, the joint; it also acts as a buffer to break shocks. (ii) As circumferential or marginal fibro-cartilages, which serve to deepen the sockets for the reception of the heads of bones—e.g. the glenoid and cotyloid ligaments of the shoulder and hip. Another form of marginal plate is seen in the glenoid ligaments of the fingers and toes, which deepen the articulations of the phalanges and add to their security. (iii) As connecting fibro-cartilage. The more pliant and elastic is the more cellular form, and is found in the intervertebral discs; while the less yielding and more fibrous form is seen in the sacro-iliac and pubic articulations, where there is little or no movement. The Ligaments which bind the bones together are strong bands of white fibrous tissue, forming a more or less perfect capsule, round the articulation. They are pliant but inextensile. varying in shape, strength, and thickness according to the kind of articulation into which they enter. They are closely connected with the periosteum of the bones they unite. In some cases—as the ligamenta subflava which unite parts not in contact—they are formed of yellow elastic tissue. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the fibrous ligaments, thus ex-