THE ARTICULATIONS 238 The three palmar ligaments are stronger than the dorsal, and are deeply placed beneath the mass of extensor tendons; they extend transversely between the bones in a similar manner to the dorsal ligaments. The two interosseous ligaments are situated on either side of the magnum, which they connect with the trapezoid on the outer, and the unciform on the inner, side. That between the magnum and trapezoid is attached to the apposed surfaces near their dorsal, i. e. the posterior aspect. That between the magnum and unci- form (fig. 235) is attached to the apposed surfaces at their lower and anterior, i.e. their palmar aspect. The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that lining the medio-carpal joint. The arterial and nerve-supplies are the same as for the medio-carpal joint. (c) The Medio-carpal Joint, or the Union of the Two Rows of the Carpus WITH EACH OTHER The inferior surfaces of the bones of the first row are adapted to the superior articular surfaces of the bones of the second row. The line of this articulation is concavo-convex from side to side, and is sometimes described as having the course Fig. 234.—Posteeiok View of Wrist, with Capsule cut to show Articular Surfaces. of a Roman S placed horizontally (/), a resemblance by no means strained, (i) The outer part of the first row consists of the scaphoid alone; it is convex, and bears the trapezium and trapezoid, (ii) Then follows a transversely elongated socket formed by the inner part of the scaphoid, the semilunar and cuneiform, into which are received (a) the head of the magnum, which articulates with the scaphoid and semilunar; (6) the upper and outer angle of the unciform, which articulates with the semilunar; and (c) the upper convex portion of the internal surface of | the unciform, which articulates with the external and concave portion of the inferior I surface of the cuneiform, (iii) The innermost part of the inferior surface of the j cuneiform bone is convex, and turned a little backwards to fit into the lower portion \ of the internal surface of the unciform, which is a little concave and turned for- | wards to receive it. The central part, which forms a socket for the magnum and I (I) Class.—Diarthrosis. (II) Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. Subdivision.—Condylarthrosis. Transverse dorsal ligament