THE ARTERIES GOO THE DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY The dorsalis pedis artery is a continuation of the anterior tibial. It extends from the front of the ankle-joint to the proximal end of the first interosseous space where it dips into the sole to join the external plantar artery and complete the plantar arch. The course of the artery is indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the two malleoli to the proximal end of the first metatarsal space. Relations.—Behind, the artery from above downwards lies successively on the astragalus, scaphoid, middle cuneiform, and the base of the second metatarsal bones, and the ligaments uniting these bones. As it sinks into the sole, under the name of the communicating artery, it lies between the two heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At times it takes a course a little more outwards, then lying either partly on the middle cuneiform bone, or on the dorsal ligaments uniting the middle cuneiform to the internal cuneiform. It is more or less bound down to the bones by aponeurotic fibres derived from the deep fascia. In front, the artery is covered by the anterior annular ligament, sometimes by the extensor longus hallucis, by the skin, the superficial and deep fascia, and, just before it sinks into the sole, by the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digi- torum. The angle formed by this tendon with the extensor longus hallucis is the best guide to finding the artery in the process of ligature (fig. 380). To its outer side is the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, and lower down the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. The anterior tibial nerve is also to its outer side, as is also the outermost of its venae comites. To its inner side is the extensor longus hallucis, except at times for about half an inch below, where the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum, having crossed the artery, may lie between it and this tendon. The innermost of the venae comites is also to the inner side. Branches between the venae comites at intervals cross the vessel. The branches of the dorsalis pedis artery are:—(1) The tarsal; (2) the meta- tarsal; (3) the dorsalis hallucis; and (4) the communicating, or plantar digital. (1) The tarsal branches may be divided into (a) the external, and (6) the internal. («.) The external tarsal runs outwards over the scaphoid and cuboid bones, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum. It supplies branches to that muscle, and to the bones and the articulations between them, and anastomoses above with the external malleolar and anterior peroneal, below with the metatarsal, and extern- ally over the outer border of the foot with the anastomotic branches of the external plantar artery, (b) The internal tarsal consists of a few small branches which run over the inner side of the foot, supplying the skin and articulations, and anas- tomose with the internal malleolar. (2) The metatarsal artery (figs. 380, 381) runs outwards across the foot, in a slight curve with the convexity forwards, over the bases of the metatarsal bones, and beneath the extensor tendons and the extensor brevis digitorum. At the outer border of the foot it anastomoses, above with the external tarsal, and externally with the anastomotic branches of the external plantar. From the convexity of the arch it gives off three dorsal interosseous arteries, which run forwards on the dorsal interosseous muscles in the centre of the second, third, and fourth inter- osseous spaces to the cleft of the toes, where they bifurcate for the supply of the con- tiguous sides of the second and third toes, the third and fourth toes, and the fourth and fifth toes. The outermost of the interosseous branches gives off a small vessel for the supply of the outer side of the little toe. At the proximal end of the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces each artery receives a branch of communica- tion from the external plantar artery (posterior perforating), and immediately before they bifurcate a second communicating artery through the distal end of the interosseous space from the corresponding digital vessel (anterior perforating artery). The little dorsal digital vessels, into which the dorsal interosseous arteries divide at the cleft of the toes, run along the side of each toe towards the dorsal aspect, anastomosing with each other across the dorsum of the toes and by frequent