THE SKELETON 114 major axis vertical; the lower end is the broader; the upper end or apex gives origin to the long tendon of the biceps. The margins are raised, and afford attach- ment to the glenoid ligament. In the recent state, the cavity is covered with hyaline cartilage, and forms an articular fossa for the head of the humerus. The margin is somewhat defective where it is overarched by tire acromion. The cir- cumference is rough for the attachment of the capsular ligament. Beyond this is a narrow constricted portion, called the neck of the scapula. Projecting upwards from the neck is the coracoid process, a prominence of bone anterior to, but parallel with, the acromion. It consists of two parts—vertical and horizontal. The vertical part is compressed from within outwards; it is con- tinuous above with the horizontal part and below with the neck of the scapula; its outer border lies above the glenoid cavity and gives attachment to the coraco- humeral ligament, and its inner border which forms the outer boundary of the supra- scapular notch gives attachment to the suprascapular ligament; its anterior and posterior surfaces are in relation with the subscapularis and suprdspinatus respec- tively. The horizontal part runs forwards and outwards; it is compressed from above downwards; its inner extremity gives attachment to the conoid ligament, .and its outer extremity, or apex, is for the attachment of the short head of the biceps and the coraco-brachialis; the pectoralis minor is attached to part of the anterior border and the upper surface, and the postero-internal part of the upper surface is occupied by the trapezoid ligament. The posterior border gives attach- ment to the coraco-acromial ligament. Muscles.—The following are attached to the scapula:— Supra-spinatus. Infra-spinatus. Subscapularis. Teres major. Teres minor. Omo-hyoid. Pectoralis minor. Serratus magnus. Deltoid. Ligaments Conoid. Trapezoid. Costo-coracoid membrane. Costo-coracoid ligament. Capsular (acromio-clavicular). Coraco-acromial. Suprascapular (transverse). Latissimus dorsi. Trapezius. Rhomboideus major. Rhomboideus minor. Levator anguli scapulae. Biceps. Coraco-brachialis. Triceps (long head). Capsular (shoulder-joint). Coraco-humeral. Gleno-humeral. Glenoid. Rhomboid loop. Spino-glenoid or inferior transverse. Blood-supply.—The scapula is supplied by the following arteries:—Twigs from the subscapular artery and from the subscapular branch of the suprascapular enter the bone on the anterior surface. The dorsal artery of the scapula distributes branches in the infraspinous, whilst the suprascapular artery supplies the supra- spinous fossa, the spine, the glenoid fossa, and sends branches into the infraspinous fossa. The acromion is supplied by branches of the acromio-thoracic artery. Ossification.—The scapula is ossified from seven centres. Two may be con- sidered as primary, and the remainder as secondary nuclei. The centre for the body appears in a plate of cartilage near the neck of the scapula about the eighth week of intra-uterine life, and quickly forms a triangular plate of bone, from which the spine appears as a slight ridge about the middle of the third month. At birth the glenoid fossa and part of the scapular neck, the acromion, coracoid, and verte- bral border are cartilaginous. During the first year a nucleus appears for the coracoid, and at the tenth year a second centre appears for the base of the coracoid and the upper part of the glenoid cavity. During the fifteenth year the coracoid is ankylosed to the scapula, and the secondary centres appear. Two nuclei are deposited in the acromial cartilage, and