THE MALE PER1NJEUM 1059 The perinaeum is divided arbitrarily into two parts by a line drawn transversely between the two ischial tuberosities an inch in front of the anus. The anterior portion is called the perinaeum proper, the posterior the ischio-rectal region. This line, however, does not coincide exactly with the true anatomical boundary as revealed by dissection. The ischio-rectal region comprises the parts surrounding the anus and the ischio-rectal fossa?. The removal of the integument exposes the sphincter muscle of the anus in the middle line, and on each side, between this and the lateral boundary of the peri- naeum, the external aperture of the ischio-rectal fossa. The sphincter ani externus is a voluntary muscle surrounding the anus, and Fig. 647.—The Male Pekixjeum. (Modified from Hirschfeld and Leveille.) BULBO-CAVERNOSUS Superficial triangular ligament ISCHI0-CAVERNOSUS INFERIOR PUDENDAL NERVE SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL NERVE INFERIOR HEMORRHOIDAL NERVE ■CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF FOURTH SACRAL Gluteus maximus TUBEROSITY OF ISCHIUM Great saero-sciatic ligament Levator ani Superficial trans versus permBei Sphincter ani attached, in front to the tendinous centre of the perinaeum (where it meets the bulbo-cavernosi, the superficial transversi perinaei, and some fasciculi of the levatores ani); behind to the tip of the coccyx. Its fibres are closely connected with the skin, and superficial bundles pass forwards by the sides of the anus, a few decus- sating with each other across the middle line, and some appear to cross directly over to the opposite side, and around the anus as an annular sphincter. They are pierced by radiating bands of the longitudinal layer of the muscular Avail of the rectum, which become lost in the deep layers of the integument. The external sphincter is in relation superficially with the integument, deeply with the levatores ani and internal sphincter; on the outer side with the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa; and internally with the lower portion of the ' internal sphincter ' (a thickening of the circular muscle of the rectum), and to a small extent with the