574 THE ARTERIES (3) In the third part of its course, as it lies on the obturator internus muscle, in the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, it is placed about an inch and a half (3'5 cm.) above the lower margin of the tuberosity of the ischium. It is here bound down to the muscle by a strong sheath of the obturator layer of the pelvic fascia (Alcock's canal). In this part of its course the dorsal nerve of the penis and the superficial perinseal nerve, into which the pudic nerve divides about this situation, lie respectively above and below the artery. The branches of the pudic artery in the third part of its course are:—(a) The external or inferior hemorrhoidal; and (b) the superficial perinseal. (a) The external or inferior haemorrhoidal branches (inferior or posterior anal) are given off from the pudic at the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, just after it enters the outer wall of that cavity through the lesser sciatic foramen. They perforate the sheath of obturator fascia binding the pudic artery to the Fig. 370a.—The Akteeies of the Perineum. On the right side Colles's fascia has been turned back to show the superficial vessels. On the left side the superficial vessels have been cut away with the anterior layer of the triangular ligament to show the deep vessels. obturator internus, and course transversely through the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa, inwards to the anus, where they supply the sphincter muscle and levator ani, and anastomose with the superior and middle hemorrhoidal arteries. Twigs are given off from them to the skin covering the anal triangle of the perineum; other branches supply the gluteus maximus and wind over the posterior fold of that muscle to the integuments; whilst others again run forwards and anastomose with the transverse and superficial perinseal arteries (fig. 370a). (b) The superficial perinaeal branch arises from the pudic at the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, just before that vessel pierces the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. It passes through the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the peri- neum (Colles's fascia), where that structure is continued into the anterior layer of the triangular ligament round the transverse perinseal muscle. It then crosses in front of (occasionally behind) that muscle, and enters the perineal triangle, the