SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1126 The prostate (figs. 692 and 694).—The relations of this important organ should be studied, whenever possible, with the finger and sound. Roughly compar- able to a chestnut in form, size, and dimensions, its base, situated below the neck of the bladder, blends by its muscular tissue with this organ. As the long axis of the prostate is very oblique, the base will be directed upwards and backwards (fig. 694). The apex, resting against the upper or deeper layer of the triangular liga- ment, lies about half an inch behind the subpubic angle. This part of the organ can be detected by the finger about one and a half inches above the anal orifice, through the anterior wall of the rectum. Continuous with this, and a little higher up, the posterior surface can also be made out through the second part of the bowel. The anterior surface receives the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and on this surface lies the greater part of the prostatic plexus (fig. 696). The lateral margins of the gland are embraced by the anterior borders of the levatores ani. The urethra, in its course through the organ from base to apex in the middle line, lies rather nearer to the anterior than the posterior surface. The ejaculatory ducts, as they pass obliquely through the prostate to open at the margins of the sinus pocularis, mark off a portion of the gland which lies between each duct below and the neck of the bladder above (fig. 694). It is obvious that, if this portion be enlarged, Fig. 695.—Scheme of the Pudic Artery and its Branches. Subpubic ligament with aperture for dorsal vein of the penis Apertures for dorsal artery and / nerve of the penis \ Crus penis Aperture for artery of corpus cavernosum Superficial triangular ligament Isehio-cavernosus, or erector penis ~A Aperture for artery to bulb Urethral aperture Aperture for Cow- per's duct Position of bulb Apertures for super- ficial perinosal vessels and nerve Fascia of Collee, turned backwards DORSAL NERVE Anterior layer of triangular ligament Dorsal artery of penis - Deep triangu- lar ligament Artery of corpus cavernosum Artery to bulb ~~W~ Pudic veins -ff— DORSAL NERVE POSITION OF COWPER'S GLAND Internal pudic artery Posterior border of perinseal ledge (junction of trian- gular ligaments with fascia of Collesj obstruction to the escape of urine from the bladder must follow. Up to puberty, the prostate is imperceptible per rectum. In adolescence the organ, while to be felt, is softer and more rounded, and lacks the character and shape which distinguish the organ in adult life. The capsule (fig. 696) of the organ must be remembered. It is formed by a layer from the recto-vesical fascia, and under it, especially on its anterior and lateral aspects (fig. 696), lies the prostatic plexus, formed chiefly by the breaking up of the dorsal vein of the penis. The continuity of the above sheath of the prostate with the recto-vesical fascia on the upper surface of the levator ani and the sides of the bladder forms the roof of the perinaeum and part of the floor of the pelvis. If by mistake an incision, as in lithotomy, is carried through this prostatic sheath, the cavities of the pelvis will be opened and extravasation of fluids into the connective tissue, which everywhere follows the layers of pelvic fascia, will follow. Before leaving the relations of the prostate, the reader should consider the layers which will be met with in cutting down to this organ from the surface. The following fascia? and nms- cular lavers will be met with alternately (Cunningham): (1) Skin and superficial fascia; (2) fascia of Colles; (3) superficial perinseal muscles; (4) superficial layer of triangular ligament; (5) compressor urethra?; (6) deep layer of triangular liga-