THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS 1032 over the rest of the body, is devoid of smooth muscular fibres and subcutaneous fat. It contains large sebaceous glands, which-in the neighbourhood of the neck of the organ secrete a whitish fatty odourous substance, the smegma praeputii. It moves freely upon the subjacent parts except over the glans, where it is firmly adherent. At the neck it becomes peculiarly redundant, and forms a fold, the prepuce, which more or less completely conceals the glans. The deeper layer of the duplicature, which is turned towards and is continuous with the skin of the glans, is sometimes termed 'mucous membrane,' which it resembles only in the absence of hairs and sudoriparous glands. A small median plication, the fraenum praeputii, extends from the prepuce to the lower surface of the glans. This contains vessels of some size, and, if ruptured,'may give rise to considerable loss of blood. The preputial orifice is usually large enough to allow the easy retraction of the fold, but sometimes is congenitally constricted, and prevents the exposure of the glans (phimosis). Owing to the composition of the prepuce by two layers of integument, the removal of a complete ring as in the ordinary operation for phimosis impedes the passage of the lymph and blood from the portion left attached to the glans, and hence considerable infiltration of this part may result. The dartos is continuous with the dartos tissue (page 1023) of the scrotum, and consists of smooth muscle, the fibres of which are for the most part disposed longi- tudinally. It enters into the formation of the prepuce, and according to Sappey Fig. 6-27.—Transverse Section through the Body of the Penis. Superficial dorsal vein of penis SKIN DARTOS SEPTUM PECTINIFORME CORPUS CAVERNOSUM Fibrous sheath of penis Artery URETHRA CORPUS SPONGIOSUM forms a kind of sphincter around the preputial orifice. Beneath the dartos is a loose elastic connective-tissue layer containing the superficial vessels and nerves of the penis, and very liable to infiltration in inflammatory or dropsical conditions and in urinary extravasation. Beneath this lies the fascial sheath of the penis, a complete and highly elastic tunic investing the entire organ as far as the base of the glans, where it fuses with the integument. It is also adherent both to the skin and to the corpus spongiosum along the ventral raphe, and it covers the deep dorsal vessels and nerves and the lateral tributaries which converge to the dorsal vein. This sheath, aided by the dartos and certain processes from the bulbo-cavernosi and ischio-cavernosi muscles, compresses the veins of the penis. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a strong band of fibrous tissue which passes from the front of the symphysis to the subjacent portion of the organ, blend- ing with the fascial sheath in the middle line and at the sides, and continued into the septum scroti below. The angle of the penis corresponds to the most ante- rior point of suspension to the symphysis. The corpora cavernosa constitute the dorsal and larger part of the penis. They are closely united in the greater part of their extent, but separate a short dis- tance in front and diverge somewhat widely behind. The posterior extremity of each, called the crus penis, at first enlarges slightly, but tapers as it approaches the subpubic arch; then, becoming tendinous and somewhat flattened, is strongly