EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 847 placed wide capillaries, called the chorio-capillaris. The pigment becomes less in amount as we pass inwards, and finally ceases, being absent entirely from the chorio-capillaris and vitreous lamina. In front of the ora serrata the uveal coat becomes considerably modified, and the part reaching from here to the iris may conveniently be termed the ciliary region of the tract, or ciliary body. Its superficial aspects have been already briefly described. In front, the ciliary processes, about seventy in number, project towards the interior of the eye, forming the corona ciliaris. Behind this part lies the orbiculus ciliaris, whose inner surface is almost smooth, faint radial folds only being present, three or four of which join each ciliary process. The more minute structure of this ciliary region resembles closely that of the choroid, except that Fig. 476.—Diagrammatic Horizontal Section of Eyeball and Orbit. (After Fuclis, much modified.) Periorbita green; muscle-fascia red; Tenon's capsule yellow. Lower lachrymal punctum Cornea \ Opening of Meibom CARUNCLE Inner palpebral ligament NASAL PROCESS OF UPPER JAW Anterior limb of inner palpebral ligament Lachrymal mc Posterior limb of inner palpe- bral ligament with Horner's muscle springing from it LACHRYMAL BONE Process of muscle-fascia to under surface of conjunctiva Ora serrata Tendon of insertion of internal rectus Inner check ligament Periorbita ORBITAL PLATE OF ETHMOID BONE Posterior lamina of muscle-fascia lined by Tenon's capsule Central retinal vessels in optic nerve External rectus muscle Internal rectus muscle OPTIC NERVE the chorio-capillaris is no longer present, that the stroma is thicker and richer in blood-vessels, and that a muscular element (ciliary muscle) exists between the vascular layer and the membrana suprachoroidea. On antero-posterior section the ciliary body is triangular; the shortest side looks forward, and from about its mid- dle the iris arises; the two long sides look respectively inwards and outwards, the inner having the ciliary processes upon it, while the outer is formed by the ciliary muscle. This muscle possesses smooth fibres and consists of an outer and an inner division; in the outer the fibres run longitudinally, inserted into the outer fibrous coat of the eye at the sclero-corneal junction in front, and passing backwards to join the outer layers of the orbiculus and choroid; the inner contains circularly run- ning fibres situated next to the ciliary processes. The entire muscle is destitute of pigment, and therefore is recognisable in the section by its light colour. The whole