SACRAL NERVE—SACRAL PLEXUS 809 SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES i * The anterior primary divisions of the upper four sacral nerves escape from the neural canal by passing through the anterior sacral foramina, while the anterior \ division of the fifth passes forwards between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve escapes from the neural canal by passing through the terminal opening. Its anterior primary division pierces the sacro-sciatic ligaments and passes forwards. The sacral nerves decrease progressively in size, from the first to ! the fifth. The first sacral nerve is the largest nerve in the body, while the fifth is i very small. Each sacral nerve is connected to the gangliated cord of the sympa- i thetic by a gray ramus communicans. The anterior divisions of the first, second, third, and part of the fourth nerves join the sacral plexus; another part of the fourth has an independent distribution. The lower part of the fourth joins the i fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerve to form the coccygeal plexus. The branches of the fourth sacral nerve and the coccj^geal plexus may be ! conveniently described first, as their distribution is confined to a limited area in J the immediate neighbourhood of the sacral plexus. FOURTH SACRAL NERVE The fourth sacral nerve, called the "nervus bigeminus," gives off an ascend- ing branch to join the sacral plexus, and a descending twig to the coccygeal plexus. < In the interval between these communicating branches several offsets arise directly from the fourth sacral without entering into a plexiform arrangement. These direct offsets are the j^erinasal branch, and the muscular nerves to the coccygeus and to the levator ani. The perinaeal branch of the fourth sacral pierces the pelvic diaphragm, between the contiguous margins of the coccygeus and levator ani, and appears close to the tip of the coccyx. It is then directed forwards, and ends in twigs to the external sphincter ani and to the integument of the anus. The branches to the coccygeus and levator ani enter these muscles on their deep or pelvic surfaces. SACRO-COCCYGEAL PLEXUS The anterior primary division of the fifth sacral nerve divides into ascending and descending branches. The ascending branch unites with the descending branch ! of the fourth sacral. The descending branch joins the coccygeal nerve. In this ! manner two small loops are formed: these loops constitute the sacro-coccygeal \ plexus. Anterior and posterior branches are given off by the plexus. The anterior branches join the hypogastric plexus (Testut). The posterior branches pierce the coccygeus muscle, and are distributed to the skin covering the posterior surface of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve gives a twig to the coccygeus and (according to Testut) gives off a branch which pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament and ends in the lower fibres of the gluteus maximus. The plexus is placed in front of the lower part of the sacrum and behind the second part of the rectum. SACRAL PLEXUS The sacral plexus, with the exception of the roots of the lumbo-sacral cord, is situated in the pelvis, behind the parietal pelvic fascia. It lies, for the most part, on the pyriformis, the fibres of that muscle often interlacing with the roots of the plexus. It is behind the branches of the internal iliac vessels, two of which, the gluteal and sciatic, pass through its loops. On the left side it is also behind the first