ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 878 Some of the fibres of this ligament have been described as muscular under the name of the laxator tympani muscle. But although occasionally muscular fibres can be detected, in the majority of cases they appear to be absent. The external ligament of the malleus prevents the handle of the malleus being turned too much outwards. It passes from the margins of the notch of Ri- vinus to the short jitrocess of the malleus. The ligament of the incus.—The short crus of the incus is covered with a layer of fibro-cartilage and rests on a depression of the posterior tympanic wall, close to the orifice leading into the mastoid cells. The posterior ligament binds the process to this wall. The Muscles of the Tympanum.—Two muscles—the tensor tympani and the stapedius, both of which lie within bony canals—transmit their tendons into the cavity of the tympanum for insertion into the chain of ossicles. The tensor tympani is a penniform muscle about half an inch in length; it arises in small part from the cartilaginous Eustachian tube and adjacent surface of the sphenoid bone as well as from the wall of the canal in which it lies. The tendon, which extends outwards almost at a right angle to the belly of the muscle, can be traced some distance inwards on its lower aspect. It is inserted on the inner margin of the handle of the malleus, near its root. The tendon glides within a sheath continuous with the periosteum lining the canal and surrounded by mucous membrane. This muscle draws the handle of the malleus, and with it the membrana tympani, inwards. The stapedius is a pyriform muscle; it arises from the interior of the pyramidal eminence which projects from the posterior wall of the tympanum. The tendon, which can be traced inwards for more than half the length of the muscle, passes through the aperture at the summit of the eminence, to be inserted into the posterior aspect of the neck of the stapes. Its tendon, like that of the tensor tympani, is surrounded by a fibrous sheath enveloped in the tympanic mucous membrane. This muscle depresses the posterior, whilst at the same time it slightly raises the anterior, end of the footpiece of the stapes. Nerves.—The stapedius is supplied by the facial nerve. The tensor tympani receives a filament from the otic ganglion which is probably derived from the motor portion of the fifth nerve. The Mucous Membrane of the Tympanum is continuous through the Eusta- chian tube with that which lines the pharynx. It is thin and transparent, and in places it is easily detached. Several vascular folds extend from the tympanic walls to the ossicles, all of which receive a complete covering of mucous membrane. The folds divide parts of the cavity into pouch-like recesses, four of which, lying in relation with the malleus, are of some importance; they are the superior and inferior external pouches and the anterior and posterior pouches of Troltsch. The superior external pouch lies in the epitympanic region, to the outer side of the heads of the malleus and incus, and above the anterior and external ligaments of the malleus, which separate it from the inferior external pouch below. The inferior external pouch lies between the last mentioned ligaments above and the short process of the malleus below. It is of special clinical importance because it is bounded externally by the flaccid portion of the membrana tympani, anteriorly it is closed but posteriorly it opens into the general cavity. The pouches of Troltsch lie in front of and behind the handle of the malleus, and they are sepa- rated by a fold of mucous membrane which envelops the chorda tympani nerve. The mucous membrane of the roof of the tympanum and that which lines the membrana tympani and covers the ossicles possesses a flattened non-ciliated epithelium. Elsewhere for the most part, including the Eustachian tube, it is columnar and ciliated. Vessels and nerves of the tympanum.—Arteries.—The tympanic branch of the internal maxillary which passes through the Glaserian fissure, and the stylo- mastoid branch of the posterior auricular which passes through the Fallopian canal, supply the front and back part of the tympanic cavity, and form a vascular chain around the circumference of the membrana tympani. In addition to these chief branches the hiatus Fallopii transmits the petrosal branch from the