1211 THE SKELETON AND NERVOUS SYSTEM met with in connection with the last cervical and the first lumbar vertebrae. The cervical rib has been found extending from the seventh cervical vertebra to the sternum. As a general rule, however, it terminates anteriorly by joining the lirst rib, or only its anterior and posterior ends are formed, the two parts being connected by a band of fibrous tissue. The lumbar rib, when it appears, always terminates by a free end in the body wall. UPPER LIMB Humerus The supracondylar process and foramen.—When it is present, the supra- condylar process springs from the inner surface of the humerus, a few centimetres above the internal condyle; it turns downwards, and is united to the humerus at a lower level by a band of fibrous tissue, which is sometimes replaced by bone. In the latter case, a distinct supracondylar foramen is formed, through which the median nerve passes. This foramen is very common in the lower mammals, in amphibians, reptiles, and in their fossil ancestors. The supratrochlear fofamen.—This foramen is formed when the septum between the coronoid and olecranon fossae is not developed. It is frequent in the lower races of mankind, especially in the South African natives and in the Veddahs. It also occurs in skeletons belonging to the Stone Age, in the gorilla, the orang, and the lower apes. The os centrale.—The os centrale is occasionally found as a separate bone in the carpus, lying in an interval between the scaphoid, the os magnum, and the trapezoid and trapezium. Its cartilaginous rudiment is always present at the second month of foetal life, but in the second half of the third month it usually fuses with the scaphoid, and it is only when the cartilage remains distinct and undergoes separate ossification that an os centrale is present in the adult. The os centrale is a normal component of the carpus of the orang; it is present in most monkeys, and it is a regular carpal element in many of the lower verte- brates. THE LOAVER LIMB The third trochanter.—In about thirty per cent, of European skeletons the upper part of the gluteal ridge is developed into a prominent third trochanter. This prominence is more rare in negroes and anthropoid apes, but it is very fre- quently present in lemurs. It is well developed in many of the lower mammals, and it forms a prominent projection on the femur of the hare. THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM (A List of Abnormal Muscles will be found on page I/.58.) THE NERVOUS SYSTEM The filum terminate.—Extending from the end of the conus medullaris of the spinal cord to the back of the coccyx there is a thin, cord-like structure, the filum terminale; it forms part of the cauda equina, and is the lower, non-functional portion of the spinal cord. It does not exist before the third month of foetal life, for up to that period the spinal cord is coextensive with the spinal canal. After