OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN 195 the interlaminar space, enters into the formation of two capsular ligaments; they do so to a greater extent in the thoracic and lumbar regions than in the cervical, where the articular processes are placed wider apart. When seen from the front after removing the bodies of the vertebrae, they are concave from side to side, but convex from above downwards; they make a more decided transverse curve than the arches between which they are placed. This concavity is more marked in the thoracic, and still more in the lumbar region than in the cervical; in the lumbar region the ligamenta subflava extend a short distance between the roots of the spinous process, blending with the interspinous ligament, and making a median sulcus when seen from the front; there is, however, no separation between the two parts. In the cervical region, where the spines are bifid, there is a median fissure in the yellow tissue which is filled up by fibro-areolar tissue. The ligaments are thickest and strongest in the lumbar region; narrow but strong in the thoracic; thinner, broader, and more membranous in the cervical region. (d) The Ligaments connecting the Spinous Processes with one another Supraspinous ligament, interspinous ligaments, and the ligamentum nucha?. The supraspinous ligament (fig. 205) extends, without interruption, as a well-marked band of longitudinal fibres along the tips of the spines of the vertebra? from that of the seventh cervical downwards till it blends with the fibrous tissue on the back of the coccyx. It covers in the lower end of the spinal canal, and adds to the security of the sacro-coccygeal articulation. Its more superficial fibres are much longer than the deep. The deeper fibres pass over adjacent spines only, while the superficial overlie several. It is con- nected laterally with the aponeurotic structures of the back; indeed, in the lumbar region, where it is well marked, it appears to result from the interweaving of the tendinous fibres of the several muscles which are attached to the tips of the spinous processes.