1207 THE REGIONS OF THE ABDOMEN method of delimitation. Firstly, for the higher horizontal plane, the most suitable level appears to be the lowest point of the tenth costal cartilage. This plane passes through the second lumbar vertebra posteriorly, and lies about two inches above the umbilicus in front. It cuts through the stomach, the transverse colon, the ascending and descending colon, the duodenum (lower curvature) and small intestine, and the kidneys. For the lower horizontal plane we have the choice of two levels—that of the anterior superior iliac spine, which lies about an inch below the level of the sacral promontory, and that of the tuberculum crista?, recently proposed by Professor Cunningham. The plane of the tuberculum crista? (intertuberculous plane) has been adopted by Quain and Cunningham; but the lower of the two alternative planes, that of the anterior iliac spines, seems the more definite and convenient for clinical demon- stration. This inter spinous plane, carried horizontally backwards from the symphysis into the true pelvis, cuts the small intestine, the caecum or lower part of the ascending colon, the sigmoid flexure, the upper end of the rectum, the fundus uteri, the ovaries and Fallopian tubes, and the distended bladder, and hence forms a valuable guide to the surgeon. Fig. 771.—Diagram of the Abdominal Regions. , HYPO- V EPIGASTRIC \ CHONDRIAC/ Joint between meso-ster- num and ensiform cartilage ■ Tip of ensiform cartilage Coalal border UPPER HORIZONTAL PLANE LOWER HORIZONTAL PLANE A, AT LEVEL UF TUBERCLES OF ILIAC CREST LOWER HORIZONTAL PLANE B, AT LEVEL OF ANTERIOR ILIAC SPINES VERTICAL PLANE A, FROM MIDDLE OF POUPART'S L1GAMENT VERTICAL PLANE B, AT OUTER BOR- DER UF RECTUS (SEMILUNAR LINEi SUMMIT OF SYMPHYSIS PUBIS For the longitudinal plane on each side, that corresponding to the ' vertical line' of Quain, running upwards parallel to the mesial line from the middle of Poupart's ligament, is already familiar to the greater number of observers; but it has the disadvantage of making the mesial regions very large in proportion to the lateral regions, the upper lateral regions being still further reduced in women owing to the narrowness of the chest when compared with the width of the pelvis. As an alter- native, the outer border of the rectus would be preferable, as it is usually to be localised without difficulty by the lateral infracostal furrow above, and by the pubic spine below; and when these points are indistinct, the breadth of the patient's hand at the head of the metacarpal bones may be taken as equal to the breadth of the rectus in its upper two-thirds. This plane, while reducing the width of the middle zone without interfering materially with existing indications of contents, leaves an inguinal region that includes the whole of the inguinal canal. Each plane cuts the kidney, transverse colon, and small intestine, and the ovaries lie at or near its intersection with the lower horizontal (interspinous) plane; the right plane cuts also the gall bladder, and sometimes the ceecum; the left cuts the sigmoid flexure, the stomach (great cul-de-sac), the pancreas, and the spleen. The subjoined table will show the contents of the regions adjusted according to this scheme. If the