CORA CO-BRA CHIALIS 305 septa, which separate the muscle from the subscapularis, the teres minor, and infra- spinatus. Insertion.—The inner lip of the bicipital groove from the lower border of the lesser tuberosity for about two inches (5 cm.) down the humerus. Structure.—Its origin is by fleshy fibres which pass upwards, outwards, and somewhat forwards, to be inserted by a strong tendon, which is first visible upon the outer border, and then upon the anterior surface of the muscle, and which is in close relation with the back of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. A small bursa intervenes between the two tendons. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the sixth and seventh cervical nerves) by the lower subscapular nerve, which enters the muscle upon its anterior aspect close to the middle of its inner border. Action.—It assists the latissimus dorsi as a strong adductor, and in some posi- tions of the arm as an internal rotator of the humerus. When the arm is fixed it will act with the latissimus dorsi in drawing the body upwards, as in climbing. Its influence, however, will be exerted upon the lower angle of the scapula, while that of the latissimus dorsi is chiefly upon the" trunk and pelvis. Relations.—In front lie the latissimus dorsi, both heads of the biceps, the coraco-brachialis, the pectoralis major, the axillary vessels, and the lower branches of the brachial plexus; behind, the latissimus dorsi, teres minor, the long and outer heads of the triceps; between its upper border and the subscapularis muscle are the posterior circumflex and dorsalis scapulae vessels, and the circumflex nerve; below are the superior profunda vessels and the musculo-spiral nerve. 7. CORACO-BRACHIALIS The coraco-brachialis—named from its attachment to the coracoid process and the upper arm (brachium)—is a cylindrical muscle, but somewhat fusiform at the extremities. Origin.—The tip of the coracoid process; (2) the inner side of the tendon of the short head of the biceps. Insertion.—(1) The rough impression two or three inches long upon the inner border of the humerus in its middle third, and in front of the internal intermuscular septum (see page 306); (2) the internal intermuscular septum and an aponeurotic band which extends upwards from the septum in front of the tendons of the teres major and the latissimus dorsi to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Structure.—It arises from the coi'acoid process by a short tendon, which is blended upon its inner side with the insertion of the pectoralis minor, and from the short head of the biceps by fleshy fibres for three or four inches (8-10 cm.) below the coracoid process. From this origin the fibres run parallel to one another, and are inserted by a short tendon. The muscle is frequently divided into two planes between which the external cutaneous nerve passes. Nerve-supply.—From the outer cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh cervical nerve) by the musculo-cutaneous branch, which either pierces it about the middle upon its way to the biceps and brachialis anticus, or sends a branch to it in this position, while the rest of the nerve passes in front of the muscle. Action.—To adduct and flex the humerus. As it lies at so small an angle with the axis of that bone, it assists materially in pressing the head of the humerus against the glenoid cavity, and so helps to prevent dislocation. Relations.—Superficially, the deltoid and pectoralis major; deeply, the sub- scapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major, and triceps. Upon its outer side lies the short head of the biceps; upon its inner side the pectoralis minor, the axillary and brachial vessels, with the median nerve and other branches of the brachial plexus. Variations.—The coraco-brachialis varies chiefly in its insertion, which may extend as high as the capsule of the shoulder or the lesser tuberosity, occasionally forming in this position a separate muscle (the rotator humeri); or it may descend as low as the inner condyle. It some- times sends a slip to the triceps or brachialis anticus. 20