344 THE MUSCLES Nerve-supply.—Throvigh the eighth cervical nerve, from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve which sends filaments to the upper part of its deep and ulnar surface. Action.—To flex the first phalanx of the little finger. Relations.—Superficially, the hypothenar part of the palmar fascia, the lower part of the abductor minimi digiti, and the superficial palmar arch; deeply, the opponens minimi digiti and the fifth metacarpal bone; and to its radial side lie the flexor tendons of the little finger. This muscle is closely connected with the previous one, from which it is separated above by the deep palmar branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Variations.—It may fail, or be blended with the abductor or opponens minimi digiti. An accessory slip may come to it from the lower third of the ulna at its inner border, from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, or the deep fascia of the forearm. 3. OPPONENS MINIMI DIGITI The opponens minimi digiti {— flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti)—named from its action—is a triangular fan-shaped sheet. Origin.—(1) From the hook of the unciform bone deeper than the preceding; (2) from the adjacent part of the anterior annular ligament. Insertion.—The whole of the ulnar border and part of the head of the fifth metacarpal bone. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, the fleshy bundles diverge down- wards and outwards, and are inserted by short tendinous fibres. Nerve-supply.—Through the eighth cervical nerve, from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve which sends filaments to the upper part of its ulnar aspect. Action.—To flex the fifth metacarpal bone, and at the same time slightly to adduct it. This movement is observed when the palm is cupped, as when the hand is used as a scoop to lift water to the mouth. Relations.—Superficially, the abductor and the flexor brevis minimi digiti; and deeply, the interossei of the fourth interspace, and the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Variations.—It may receive a slip from the deep fascia of the forearm. THE MUSCLES AND FASCIJE OF THE THIGH Superficial fascia.—The greater part of this is of loose adipose tissue, and, without any deep connections, is continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen and back. In the upper and front part of the thigh a deep layer of a more membranous structure may be distinguished, and this has deep connections where the lower limb joins the trunk, being attached to Poupart's ligament, the crest of the ilium, and the deep fascia just below its insertion into the rami of the pubes and ischium. Below the inner half of Poupart's ligament several lymphatic glands are arranged longitudinally between these two layers of the superficial fascia. The deep fascia or fascia lata is a very strong layer of fibrous tissue, the fibres of which are arranged for the most part transversely as an aponeurosis of invest- ment; but many of them, especially upon the outer side where it is much thicker, are longitudinal, and serve for the insertion of important muscles. The whole of the deep fascia forms a strong cylindrical tube investing all the muscles of the thigh. It is attached above, in the groin, to Poupart's ligament, where it blends with the