VESTIGIAL AND ABNORMAL STRUCTURES 1214 falciform ligament to the anterior end of the longitudinal fissure, and thence along the anterior part of the longitudinal fissure to the left extremity of the transverse fissure, where it terminates by fusing with the anterior wall of the left branch of the portal vein. It is the remains of the left division of the umbilical vein, a large vessel which returns the blood from the placenta and which divides at its entrance into the body into right and left branches; the right branch disappears at an early period of development, but the left persists until the placental circulation terminates at birth, when it is converted into a solid fibrous cord. The ligamentum ductus venosus.—The ligamentum ductus venosus is a fibrous cord situated in the posterior part of the longitudinal fissure of the liver. It springs from the posterior wall of the left branch of the portal vein, somewhat to the right of the termination of the round ligament anteriorly, and it terminates above in the inferior vena cava. It is the remains of a channel, the ductus venosus, which persists until birth for the transmission of the greater part of the placental blood directly from the left umbilical vein to the inferior vena cava. The vestigial fold of the pericardium.—The vestigial fold of the peri- cardium, which was first described by Marshall, extends from the left branch of the pulmonary artery to the left superior pulmonary vein. It contains a fibrous cord which represents the lower part of the left superior vena cava, a vessel which is very common in mammals generally, but which is generally absent in man. GENITO- URINAR Y SYSTEM FEMALE The round ligament of the uterus and the ligament of the ovary.—When the ovary is developed, in the lumbar region of the abdomen, it is connected with the labium majus and the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall by a musculo- fibrous cord, the gubernacular cord of the ovary, which corresponds with the gubernacular cord of the testicle in the male. The male gubernacular cord com- pletely disappears when the testicle is pulled down into the scrotum, but the gubernacular cord in the female contracts to a smaller extent, and the ovary is only pulled down to the back of the broad ligament. As soon as the contraction has proceeded to this extent, the gubernacular cord becomes attached to the side of the uterus below the Fallopian tube, the portion of the cord in front of the attachment becoming the round ligament of the uterus, whilst that behind is converted into the ligament of the ovary. The hydatid of Morgagni.—The hydatid of Morgagni is a small pyriform vesicle attached to the upper border of the broad ligament of the uterus, or to one of the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube, by a slender pedicle. It is usually filled with clear fluid, and it is the modified remnant of one of the Wolffian tubules of the primitive kidney. The epoophoron, epovarium,or organ of Rosenmuller.—This rudiment of the primitive kidney, or Wolffian body, lies in the broad ligament of the uterus, between the ovary below and the Fallopian tube above. It consists of a series of from twelve to twenty vertical tubules, which commence below in or near the hilum of the ovary, and terminate above in a horizontal tubule which lies parallel with, and a short distance below, the Fallopian tube. The vertical tubules are remains of the upper Wolffian tubules, and they correspond with the vasa recta and the vasa efferentia of the testicle. The horizontal tube is a remnant of the upper part of the Wolffian duct, and it therefore corresponds with the tube of the epididymis in the male. The paroophoron, or parovarium.—The paroophoron lies in the broad ligament of the uterus to the inner side of the epoophoron and the ovary. It consists of a number of yellow cords, the remnants of some of the lower Wolffian