THE ARTICULATIONS 206 joint, and interlace across the median line with fibres from the opposite side nearly as high as the middle of the symphysis. The anterior ligament (figs. 210 and 211) is thick and strong, and is closely connected with the fascial covering of the muscles arising from the body of the pubes. It consists of several strata of thick decussating fibres of different degrees of obliquity, the superficial being the most oblique, and extending lowest over the joint. The most superficial descending fibres extend from the upper border of the Fig. 210.—Anterior View of the Symphysis Pubis (Male), showing the Decussation of the Fibres of the Anterior Ligament. Superior pubic ligament Inferior pubic ligament pubis, cross others from the opposite side about the middle of the symphysis, and are attached to the ramus of the opposite bone. The most superficial ascending fibres come from the infrapubic ligament, arch upwards, and decussate with other fibres across the middle line, and are lost on the opposite side beneath the descend- ing set. There is another deeper set of descending fibres which arise below the angle, but do not descend so far as the superficial; and a deeper set of ascending, which decussate, and reach higher than the superficial set, and are connected with Fig. 211.—Anterior View of the Symphysis Pubis (Female), showing greater Width between the bones. Superior pubic ligament Inferior pubie ligament the infrapubic ligament. Some few transverse fibres pass from side to side, especially above and below the points of decussation. The inferior or infrapubic ligament (figs. 210, 211 and 212) is a thick, arch- like band of closely packed fibres which fills up the angle between the pubic rami, and forms a smooth, rounded summit to the pubic arch. On section, it is yellow- ish in colour and three-eighths of an inch (1 cm.) thick in the middle line; it is inseparably connected with the interosseous cartilage. Both on the front and back aspects of the joint it gives off decussating fibres, which, by their interlacement over