190 THE ARTICULATIONS THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK These may be divided into the following sets:— + 1. Those of the vertebral column. (a) Union of the bodies. (6) Union of the articular processes. 2. Vertebral column with the pelvis. 3. Pelvis. (a) Sacro-iliac synchondroses. (c) Intercoccygeal. (6) Sacro-coccygeal. (d) Symphysis pubis. 4. Ribs with the vertebral column. 5. The articulations at the front of the thorax. (a) Costal cartilages with the sternum. (b) Costal cartilages with the ribs. (c) Sternal. (d) Certain costal cartilages with each other. 1. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN There are two distinct sets of articulations in the vertebral column:— (a) Those between the bodies and intervertebral discs which form amphi- arthrodial joints. (6) Those between the articular processes which form arthrodial joints. The ligaments which unite the various parts may also be divided into two sets, viz.—immediate, or those that bind together parts which are in contact; and intermediate, or those that bind together parts which are not in contact. Immediate. (a) Those between the bodies and discs. (6) Those between the articular processes. Intermediate. (c) Those between the laminae. (d) Those between the spinous processes. (e) Those between the transverse processes. («) The Articulations of the Bodies of the Vertebr/e Class.—Amph iarth ros is. The ligaments which unite the bodies of the vertebrae are:— Intervertebral discs. Anterior common. Short lateral ligaments. Posterior common. The intervertebral substances (figs. 195 and 199) are tough, but elastic and compressible discs of composite structure, which serve as the chief bond of union between the vertebrae. They are twenty-three in number, and are interposed between the bodies of all the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum (figs. 195 and 206). Similar substances are found between the segments of the sacrum and coccyx, but they undergo ossification at their surfaces and often throughout their whole extent.