CARDIAC 609 The subcostal vein, or twelfth thoracic vein, lies beneath the last rib, and accompanies the twelfth dorsal or subcostal artery. It receives tributaries corre- sponding to the branches of the subcostal artery, and opens on the right side into the vena azygos major, and on the left side into the vena azygos minor. The bronchial veins correspond to the bronchial arteries, but do not return the whole of the blood carried to the lungs by those vessels—that part which is distri- buted to the smaller bronchial tubes and the alveolae being brought back by the pulmonary veins. The bronchial veins issue from the lung substance behind the structures forming the root of the lung. The right vein generally joins the vena azygos major just before the latter vein enters the superior vena cava. The left vein opens into the lower left superior intercostal vein, or into the upper left azygos vein. The bronchial veins at the root of the lung receive small tributaries from the bronchial glands, from the trachea, and from the posterior mediastinum. The oesophageal veins from the thoracic portion of the oesophagus end in part in the vena azygos major, and in part in the vena azygos minor. THE VEINS OF THE HEART The cardiac or coronary veins return the blood from the substance of the heart. They accompany the corresponding coronary arteries, and terminate for the most part in a dilated vein known as the coronary sinus. This opens directly into Fig. 383.—The Coronary Sinus. Left carotid artery Left subclavian artery Aorta Ductus arteriosus Pulmonary artery Left pulmonary veins LEFT AURICLE Left coronary artery Left marginal artery Oblique vein of Marshall Left marginal vein PERICARDIUM Coronary sinus Posterior cardiac vein A nterior interventricular branch, of left coronary Right carotid artery Innominate artery Vena cava superior Eight pulmonary veins RIGHT AURICLE Vena cava inferior Right coronary artery Posterior interventricular vein Posterior interventricular branch of right coronary the right auricle of the heart, between the tricuspid opening and the opening of the inferior vena cava. Some smaller veins from the heart's substance (vena? minima? cordis) open separately and directly into the right auricle at the bottom of some of the small depressions known as the foramina Thebesii. 39