THE SHOULDER-JOINT 225 The glenoid ligament (figs. 224 and 227) is a narrow rim of dense fibro-cartilage, which surrounds the edge of and deepens the glenoid socket. It is about a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) wide above and below, but less at the sides. Its outer edge is inseparably welded, near the bone, -with the capsular ligament. Its structure is almost entirely fibrous, with but few cartilage cells intermixed. At the upper part of the fossa the biceps tendon is prolonged into the glenoid ligament, the tendon usually dividing and sending fibres right and left into the ligament, which may wind round nearly the whole circumference of the socket. It may, however send fibres into one side only, usually into the outer. The articular cartilage covering the glenoid fossa is thicker at the circumfer- ence than in the centre, thus tending to deepen the cavity. It is usually thickest at the lower part of the fossa; over the head of the humerus the cartilage is thickest at and below the centre. The synovial membrane lines the glenoid ligament, and is then reflected over the capsule as far as its attachment to the humerus, from which it ascends as far as the edge of the articular cartilage. The tendon of the biceps receives a long tubular sheath, which is continuous with the synovial membrane, both at its attached extremity and at the bicipital groove, but is free in the rest of its extent. The Fig. 227.—Biceps Tendon, bifurcating and Blending on each Side with the Glenoid Fibro-cartilage. Tendon of biceps Tendon of biceps blended with glenoid ligament synovial cavity sometimes communicates with the bursa under the subscapularis, and less frequently with one under the infra-spinatus muscle. It also sends a pouch-like prolongation beneath the coracoid process when the fibrous capsule is attached wide of the margin of the glenoid fossa. A few fringes are seen near the edge of the glenoid cavity, and there is often one which runs down the inner edge of the biceps tendon, extending slightly below it and making a slight groove for the tendon to lie in. The transverse humeral ligament (fig. 226) is so closely connected with the capsule of the shoulder that, although it is a proper ligament of the humerus, it may well be described here. It is a strong band of fibrous tissue, which extends between the two tuberosities, roofing in the bicipital canal. It is covered by a thin expansion of the capsule. It is limited to the portion of the bone above the line of the epiphysis. (C. Gordon Brodie, Journ. Anat. xxiv. 247.) The following muscles are in relation with the capsular ligament: above, the supra-spinatus; externally, the infra-spinatus and teres minor ; below, the long head of the triceps; internally, the tendon of the subscapularis. The deltoid covers the outer and upper surfaces of the joint, but is separated from the capsule by a bursa, and the tendons of the short rotator muscles. An upward slip from the pectoralis 15