1108 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY and partly in the substance of the parotid gland. (4) The submaxillary, under the cervical fascia, in the digastric triangle. This very important group receives lymph from the lower part of the face, lips, front of tongue, floor of mouth, and all the salivary glands. They drain into the superficial and deep cervical glands. (5) Superficial cervical glands. These lie along the external jugular, between the platysma and deep fascia. They receive lymphatics from the occipital, posterior auricular glands, the ear, and upper neck, and also some of those from the parotid and submaxillary regions. They drain partly into the deep cervical, partly into the axillary glands. (6) Deep cervical. These consist of two sets,—upper and lower, —lying along the carotid sheath. They, receive lymph from the superficial cervical and submaxillary glands, the inside of the cranium, and pterygoid region, deep muscles of neck, palate, tonsils, larynx, pharynx, thyroid body, and upper part of trachea and oesophagus. The deep cervical glands empty into each other and below into the mediastinal and axillary lymphatics, the right lymphatic duct, and thoracic duct. Two other groups of glands—the one superficial, the otber deep—must be remembered. (7) The suprahyoid group is a term given to a few glands situated in the middle line under the deep fascia below the chin. (8) Retro- pharyngeal glands. These lie between the upper part of the pharynx and the rectus capitis anticus major. They receive lymph from the naso-pharynx and drain into the deep cervical glands. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE THORAX Bony points.—The top of the sternum corresponds (in inspiration) to the fibro-cartilage between the second and third thoracic vertebrae, and is distant about two and a half inches from the spine. If traced downwards, the subcutaneous sternum presents a ridge opposite to the junction of the manubrium and body, and the second costal cartilages on either side. At its lower extremity the xiphoid carti- lage usually retires from the surface, presenting the depression of the scrobiculus cordis, or 'pit of the stomach.' This is opposite to the seventh costal cartilages and the expanded upper end of the recti, and corresponds to the ninth thoracic vertebra behind. Sterno-clavicular joint.—The expanded end of the clavicle and the lack of proportion between this and the sternal facet, on which largely depends the mobility of this, the only joint that ties the upper extremity closely to the trunk, can be easily made out tbrough the skin. Behind the joint lie, on the right side, the innominate artery, right innominate vein, and pleura; on the left, the left innominate vein, the left carotid, and the pleura. Acromio-clavicular joint.—On tracing the clavicle outwards, it is found to rise somewhat to its articulation with the acromion. This joint has very little mobility, and owes its protection to the strong conoid and trapezoid ligaments hard by. Owing to the way in which the joint-surfaces are bevelled, that of the cla vicle looks obliquely downwards, and it is an upward displacement of the clavicle which usually takes place on to the acromion. Ribs.—In counting these, the position of the second is denoted by the trans- verse line at the junction of the manubrium and body of the sternum. The nipple, in the male, lies between the fourth and fifth, nearly an inch outside their cartilages. The lower border of the great pectoral corresponds to the fifth rib. The seventb, the longest of the ribs, is the last to articulate with the sternum. When the arm is raised, the first three digitations seen of the serratus magnus correspond to the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. The ninth rib is the most oblique. The eleventh and twelfth can be felt outside the erector spinae. Owing to the obliquity of the ribs, their sternal ends are on a much lower level than their vertebral extremities. 'Thus the first rib in front corresponds to the fourth rib behind, the second to the