1017 THE BLADDER description five aspects or surfaces: anteroinferior or pubic, posterior or rectal, superior or intestinal, and two lateral or obturator surfaces. The anterior, poste- rior, and lateral surfaces meet above at the .urachus, and converge below towards the base of the prostate—the posterior wall sometimes approaching the urethral orifice almost in a vertical direction, as in Braune's section (plate 2), or curving first downwards, and then forwards, as in fig. 617; and in old subjects this curve may be so exaggerated that a kind of pouch is formed behind the internal meatus. The antero-inferior surface looks downwards and forwards towards the symphysis. It is uncovered by peritoneum, but has a strong investment of recto-vesical fascia, and is separated from the pubic bones and anterior attachments of the obturatores interni and levatores ani by a space known as the cavum Retzii, which contains a Fig. 617.—Median Sagittal Section of the Male Pelvis. (From a preparation in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital.) variable quantity of loose fat continuous with the pelvic and abdominal subperi- toneal tissue. Each lateral surface is covered by peritoneum down to the level of a line extending from the urachus backwards to a point below the summit of the vesicula seminales, about an inch above the base of the prostate. Below this level it is separated from the levatores ani by subperitoneal tissue, which usually bears much fat in its meshes and ensheath's the vesical vessels and nerves; and it is crossed by the vas deferens, and at the point of peritoneal reflexion by the obliterated hypo- gastric artery. The ureter pierces the junction of the posterior and lateral surfaces about an inch and a half above the prostate, the vas running between it and the vesical wall. External to these structures the lateral wall is in relation to the leva- tor ani and the obturator interims. The posterior surface may be divided into two portions, an upper covered by the peritoneum of the recto-vesical or utero-