THE LYMPHATICS 6-52 spaces which surround the olfactory nerves, with the subdural and subarachnoid lymph-spaces of the cranium. 5. The lymphatics of the mouth and tongue.—The lymphatics from the floor of the mouth pass through the mylo-hyoid muscle into the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the lips pass with the superficial lymphatics, partly into the submaxillary glands, and partly into the deep cervical chain. The lymphatics of the deep surface of the cheek and of the roof of the mouth join tbe internal maxillary lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the tongue run back- wards with the ranine vein, and, after passing through several small lingual glands on the hyo-glossus muscle, join the deep cervical chain. The lymphatics of the front part of the tongue pass with the lymphatics of the floor of the mouth, through the mylo-hyoidean muscles into the submaxillary glands. 6. The lymphatics of the pharynx run along the course of the pharyngeal arteries and enter the upper set of deep cervical glands. Those from the upper part of the pharynx pass through the postpharyngeal gland. The lymphatics of the tonsil open into the submaxillary glands near the angle of the jaw. Fig. 39Sb.—Diagram of the Deep Lymphatic Vessels and Glands of the Head and Neck. (After Drawing by Dr. Francis E. Sherwood.) .Upper and post, part of Tongue Efferent vesselsw R. and L. Lymphatic ducts 7. The lymphatics of the larynx join the deep cervical glands. Those above the glottis pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane, and end in the upper set of the deep cervical glands; those below the glottis perforate the crico-thyroid membrane, and, after passing through one or more small laryngeal glands at the lower part of the larynx on its anterior or lateral aspect, enter the lower set of the deep cervical glands. 8. The lymphatics of the upper part of the oesophagus and trachea join the lower glands of the deep cervical chain. 9. The lymphatics of the thyroid body accompany the thyroid arteries, and end in part in the upper and in part in the lower glands of the deep cervical chain. B. The Deep Lymphatic Glands of the Head and Neck 1. The deep lymphatic glands of the head are few in number. They are the lingual, the internal maxillary, and the post-pharyngeal. (1) The lingual, two to four in number, are situated on the outer surface of