PB ON A TOR Q UADRA TUS—BRA OHIO- RAD I A LIS 321 Fourth Layer The fourth layer consists of one muscle—the pronator quadratus. PRONATOR QUADRATUS The pronator quadratus (fig. 284) is a thin quadrilateral sheet, named from its action and its nearly square shape. Origin.—The inner part of the front surface of the lower fourth of the ulna. Insertion.—-The lower two inches (5 cm.) or rather less of the outer border and the anterior surface of the radius. Structure.—-The greater part of the muscle consists of fleshy fibres which pass transversely between its two attachments. Its inner third, however, is covered by a strong aponeurosis which arises from the inner border of the ulna. The radial insertion is of a somewhat triangular shape, the outer side of the triangle passing obliquely from the interosseous line downwards, and joining the outer border of the radius a short distance from the base of the styloid process; while the inner side corresponds to the interosseous ridge, and the base crosses the front of the radius above the attachment of the anterior radio-carpal ligament. Nerve-supply.—From the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus • (through the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves) by means of the anterior interosseous branch of the median nerve which terminates by filaments which enter the front of the muscle near its upper border. Action.—By drawing the outer border of the anterior surface of the radius towards the inner border of the anterior surface of the ulna, it pronates the radius upon the ulna. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor longus pollicis, the flexor carpi radialis, the flexor profundus digitorum, and the flexor carpi ulnaris, the radial and ulnar arteries, and the ulnar nerve; deeply, the anterior interosseous artery, the inter- osseous membrane, and the inferior radio-ulnar joint. Variations.—The pronator quadratus is sometimes absent. It sometimes gives off slips to the scaphoid or trapezium, the base of the first metacarpal bone, or to the origins of the short thumb muscles. RADIAL GROUP OF MUSCLES Along the radial border, between the groups which clothe the front and back of the forearm, lie three long muscles, one upon the other—viz. the brachio-radialis (or supinator longus); the extensor carpi radialis longior; and the extensor carpi radialis brevior. 1. BRACHIO-RADIALIS The brachio-radialis, or supinator radii longus—named from its attachment to the humerus and radius, and sometimes called the supinator longus from an erroneous view of its action—is a fusiform sheet. Origin.—The upper two-thirds of the external condylar ridge, and the front of the external intermuscular septum of the upper arm. Insertion.—The base of the styloid process of the radius. Structure.—Arising by fleshy fibres from the septum, and by short tendinous fibres from the condylar ridge, the muscle passes downwards and forwards in penni- form fashion to its tendon which lies first on its deep surface. Becoming free just below the middle of the forearm, the tendon runs directly downwards and expands before its insertion upon a horizontal line at the base of the styloid process of the radius. At first the plane of the muscle is directed outwards and inwards; but lower down the outer surface becomes anterior, and the inner posterior. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the 21