731 THE SPINAL CORD THE SPINAL CORD The spinal cord is the elongated portion of the cerebro-spinal axis which is contained within the spinal canal. It extends from the level of the transverse ligament of the atlas to the body of the second lumbar vertebra. Occasionally it only extends as far as the body of the first lumbar vertebra. It is invested, in common with the brain, by three membranes: dura mater, arachnoid, and pia mater. The portions of these membranes which are contained within the cranial cavity, and are therefore in relation to the brain, have been already described (page 671). There are, however, certain differences between the cranial and the spinal meninges; therefore, a short separate description of the latter will be necessary. Dissection.—The subject being placed on its face, the neural canal may be laid open in the usual manner by cutting through the pedicles of the vertebrae and removing the neural arches of the sacrum. The cord and its membranes should be first examined in situ. About three inches of the theca should be ripped up at the junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions for this purpose. The entire cord with the membranes should then be removed by dividing both cord and mem- branes at the level of the articulation between the atlas and axis and cutting through the nerves Fig. 435.—Transverse Section of the Spinal Cord and its Membranes. (After Key and Ketzius.) SUBARACHNOID SPACE ANTERIOR NERVE-ROOTS {in seetion) Ligamentutn denticulatum SUBARACHNOID TRABECUIA WITH B UNDIES OF POSTERIOR NERVE-ROOTS Septum postieum as they enter the intervertebral foramina. Two or three of the lower lumbar or upper sacral nerves should be cut sufficiently long to preserve the ganglia on the posterior roots. The cord should now be pinned out with its posterior surface uppermost in a cork-lined tray and dissected under water On laying open the dura mater by a mesial longitudinal incision, the arachnoid will come into view and will be rendered more evident by blowing air between it and the pia mater with a blowpipe. On slitting up the arachnoid some of the coarser strands of the subarachnoid tissue may be made out. The posterior and anterior nerve-roots will also be seen with the ligamentum denticulatum between them. The connection of the latter with the pia mater is well seen under water. The pia mater appears white and glistening, and when traced downwards is very obviously continuous with the filum terminale. The last-named structure stands out conspicuously among the duller-coloured nerve-roots which constitute the cauda equina. On the anterior aspect of the cord the linea splendens will be seen. Lastly the student should make a series of trans- verse sections through the cord and compare the disposition of the grey and white matter in the different regions (fig. 439). The dura mater forms a loose sheath or theca around the cord. It invests not only the cord but also the elongated nerve-roots, which (under the name of cauda equina) extend beyond the cord. It invests the cauda equina as far as the second or third sacral vertebra, but at this level it converges so as to form a blunt hollow cone, and is represented lower down only by the sheath of the filum terminale. By means of this sheath it is attached to the base of the coccyx. Its outer surface is