949 THE PHARYNX the deep lobe just described, to open by a small orifice on the summit of a papilla by the side of the frsenum of the tongue. In this course it is crossed superficially by the lingual nerve. It lies at first between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus; next, between the mylo-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus; and lastly, under cover of the mucous membrane of the mouth, between the genio-hyo-glossus and the sublingual gland. The duct is about two inches (5 cm.) in length, and has comparatively thin coats. It is lined by columnar epithelium. The arteries to the gland are derived from the facial and lingual, and they are accompanied by corresponding veins. The nerves proceed from the submandibular ganglion, from the mylo-hyoid of the mandibular nerve, and from branches of the sympathetic. The SUBLINGUAL GLAND—the smallest of the salivary glands—is about one drachm in weight. It lies beneath the fore part of the tongue and mucous mem- brane of the floor of the mouth, resting deeply upon the mylo-hyoid muscle. Its position is indicated by a ridge of mucous membrane, the sublingual ridge, which runs outwards and backwards from the frsenum.. It is limited externally by the sublingual fossa of the mandible, and internally by the genio-hyo-glossus, stylo- glossus, and Wharton's duct; in front it touches its fellow, and behind it approaches the deep lobe of the submaxillary gland. The duct from the main portion of the gland—the duct of Rivinus or Bartholin —runs alongside the submaxillary duct, and opens either into it or on the same papilla. The fore part of the gland consists of a cluster of little lobules, each with its own separate duct—the ducts of Walther. They open in a line on the floor of the mouth, on the sublingual ridge. The arteries are derived from the sublingual and submental, with their corre- sponding veins. The nerves are derived from the gustatory (through the submandibular gan- glion) and from the sympathetic. THE PHARYNX The pharynx is placed behind the nose and mouth, and extends from the base of the skull to the lower part of the cricoid cartilage opposite the sixth cervical vertebra. The soft palate projects into it from the front, dividing it into a nasal portion above, and a buccal portion below. The openings of the two posterior nares which are in front, and the orifices of the two Eustachian tubes, one on each side, open into the naso-pharynx; whilst into the buccal portion below the velum are the single openings of the mouth in front, and the larynx and oesophagus below. Thus there are seven openings leading into its cavity. It measures from above downwards about four and a half inches (11-3 cm.). It is flattened from before backwards, so that the cavity in this direction is extremely contracted, its mucous membrane, especially above, being thrown into numerous folds and recesses; whilst below the cavity becomes entirely obliterated, and its anterior and posterior walls, except during the act of swallowing, are in actual contact. It is widest opposite the cornua of the hyoid bone, and narrowest below where it passes into the oesophagus. The pharyngeal walls are composed of a fibrous coat, the pharyngeal aponeu- rosis, lined by a mucous membrane, and surrounded externally by muscular layers invested by a delicate areolar sheath which lies beneath the stronger post-pharyngeal fascia. The pharyngeal aponeurosis is well marked above, but below it loses its density and gradually disappears as a definite structure. Above, it is attached to the basi- occipital bone in front of the pharyngeal tubercle. Its attachment may be traced