NASAL-A URICULAR— 625 OPHTHALMIC The Veins of the Medulla and Pons The veins from the medulla oblongata and the pons terminate in the inferior petrosal and lateral sinuses. 4. THE VEINS OF THE NASAL CAVITIES The venous plexuses on the inferior turbinated bone and back of the septum are described with the Nose. The veins leaving the nasal cavities follow roughly the course of their corresponding arteries. Thus the spheno-palatine veins pass through the spheno-palatine foramen into the pterygoid plexus; the anterior and posterior ethmoidal veins join the ophthalmic. Small veins accompany branches of the facial artery through the nasal bones and nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones, and end in the angular and facial veins; and other small veins pass from the nose anteriorly into the superior labial, and thence to the facial. 5. THE VEINS OF THE EAR The veins from the external ear and external auditory meatus join the temporal and posterior auricular veins. The veins from the tympanum open into the superior petrosal sinus and temporo-maxillary vein. The blood from the labyrinth flows chiefly through the internal auditory veins which lie with the internal auditory artery in the internal auditory meatus, and enters the inferior petrosal or lateral sinus. Some of the blood from the labyrinth, however, passes through the vestibular vein which lies in the aqueductus vestibuli, into the inferior petrosal sinus, and some through the aqueductus cochleae, into the commencement of the internal jugular vein. 6. THE VEINS OF THE ORBIT The blood from the eyeball and orbit is returned by the ophthalmic vein into the cavernous sinus. This vein and its tributaries have no valves, and communi- cate in front with the frontal, supraorbital, and other veins. Hence under certain conditions, as from pressure on the cavernous sinus, the blood may flow in the contrary direction to the normal—i.e. from behind forwards into the frontal and supraorbital, and thence through the angular vein into the facial. In this way pressure on the retinal veins is quickly relieved, and little or no distension occurs in cases of obstruction in the cavernous sinus. The ophthalmic vein, or common ophthalmic vein, is formed by the confluence at the back of the orbit of the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins. It is a short thick trunk, and passes backwards between the two heads of the external rectus muscle below the sixth nerve, and at the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure leaves the orbit and enters the front part of the cavernous sinus. A. The superior ophthalmic vein, larger than the inferior, begins at the inner canthus of the eyelid by a free communication with the frontal, supra- orbital, and angular veins, and thence runs backwards and outwards with the ophthalmic artery across the optic nerve to the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, where it joins the inferior ophthalmic vein to form the common ophthalmic trunk. In this course it lies anterior and superficial to the ophthalmic artery. Tributaries.—(1) The superior muscular veins; (2) the ciliary veins; (3) the anterior and posterior ethmoidal veins; (4) the lachrymal vein; and (5) the central vein of the retina. (1) The superior muscular branches are derived from the levator palpebral, superior rectus, superior oblique, and internal rectus. (2) The ciliary veins are divided into two sets: an anterior, which emerge from the eyeball with the anterior ciliary arteries, and open into the muscular veins returning the blood from the four recti; and a posterior set, known as the venae vor- 40 4