SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1206 purposes, one of passing beneath and thus picking up the other one, the flexor longus hallucis. Further, it draws the four smaller toes firmly against the ground, the object of the smaller toes being, as far as possible, to grip the ground. (8) The same authority points out that the possession by the great toe of two phalanges only is to enable it to form a firm solid base, on which not only the flexor longus hallucis and the peroneus longus act, but also the smaller muscles, by holding this toe down and keeping it straight in all its length. The two heads of the short flexor, the abductor and adductor, ' one pulling one way and one in the opposite direction, and like the two reins of a bridle when both are pulled together, have a joint or a collective action.' The above three short muscles are to be regarded as one set of flexor muscles whose object is to hold down the first phalanx firmly, so that the powerful flexor longus hallucis, acting on the second, exerts all its influence on a straight great toe. Fig. 769 is introduced here to remind the student of the arrangement of the superficial lymphatics of the lower extremity. These follow chiefly the saphena veins, and enter the inguinal (page 667) and popliteal glands. The superficial lymphatics of the buttock enter the outer, and those over the adductor muscles the innermost group of the inguinal glands. The deep lymphatics of the lower limb, comparatively few in number, follow the course of the deeper vessels. After passing through some four or five glands deeply placed about the popliteal vessels (these glands also receive the lymphatics along the external saphenous vein) the lymph is carried up by lymphatics along the femoral artery to the deep femoral or inguinal glands. These are found around the upper part of the femoral vessels; one very often occupies the femoral canal. Fig. 770 shows the distribution of the superficial nerves on both aspects of the limb. THE REGIONS OF THE ABDOMEN By WILLIAM ANDERSON, F.R.C.S. As the plan of segmenting the ventral surface of the abdomen by means of two horizontal and two vertical or .nearly vertical lines; has survived the test of time, it might be assumed that it is a resource of some practical value to the physician and surgeon. It is, however, a curious fact that, although the nine historical regions of the abdomen have been universally accepted in British and continental schools for at least forty years, and may be traced back to a very much more remote period, no attempt has ever been made to secure uniformity in the plan of their delimitation. Almost every anatomical writer has, in fact, elected to follow a system of his own, with the result that there are at the present moment nearly a score of different schemes in our recognised text-books. There is little doubt that it were better to abandon altogether the pretence of a regional subdivision than to employ terms which have no scientific meaning, but it may be hoped that some accord will soon be arrived at. Whatever system be adopted, it is necessary that the boundary ' lines' should be converted into planes carried through the whole depth of the abdomen, and defined on the dorsal as well as on the ventral surface of the trunk, and that the structures cut through by these planes should be noted, as well as those comprised within the regions which they separate. It should, of course, be recognised that the relations so defined can only be approximate, on account of the wide range of physiological variation in the position of the abdominal contents; but this being understood, a regional type would be of material service in medical education. If we retain the subdivision into nine segments, it remains only to consider the