THE CARPO-META CARPAL JOINTS 241 (a) The Four Inner Carpometacarpal Joints Class.—Diarthrom. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. These joints exist between the trapezium, trapezoid, magnum, and unciform bones above, and the four inner metacarpal bones below. The ligaments which unite them are, dorsal, palmar, and interosseous. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 234).—Three dorsal ligaments pass to the second metacarpal bone: one from each of the carpal bones with which it articulates, viz. the trapezium, trapezoid, and magnum. Two dorsal bands pass from the magnum to the third metacarpal bone. Two dorsal bands pass to the fourth bone: viz. one from the unciform, and another from the magnum; the latter is sometimes wanting. The fifth bfene has only one band passing to it from the unciform. The palmar ligaments (fig. 231).—One strong band passes from the second metacarpal bone to the trapezium internal to the ridge for the annular ligament; it is covered by the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis. Three bands pass from the third metacarpal: one outwards to the trapezium, a middle one upwards to the magnum, and a third inwards over the fourth to reach the fifth metacarpal and the unciform bones. One ligament connects the fourth bone to the unciform. One ligament connects the fifth bone to the unciform, the fibres extending internally, and connecting the dorsal and palmar ligaments. The ligament to the fifth bone is strengthened in front by the prolonged fibres of the flexor carpi v.lnaris and the strong inner slip of the ligament of the third metacarpal bone; and poste- riorly, by the tendon of the extensor carpi vlnaris. The interosseous ligament (fig. 235) is limited to one part of the articulation, and consists of short strong fibres connecting the contiguous angles of the unciform and magnum with the third and fourth metacarpal bones towards their palmar aspect. There is, however, a thick strong ligament connecting the edge of the trapezium with the outer border of the base of the second metacarpal bone; it helps to separate the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb from the common carpo-meta- carpal joint, and to close in the radial side of the latter joint. The synovial membrane is a continuation of the medio-carpal joint; occa- sionally there is a separate membrane between the unciform and fourth and fifth metacarpal bones (fig. 235); while that between the fourth and magnum is lined by the synovial sac of the common joint. The arteries to the four inner carpo-metacarpal joints are as follows:— (1) For the index finger: twigs, are supplied by the trunk of the radial on the dorsal and palmar aspects, the metacarpal, the dorsalis indicis, and the radialis indicis. (2) For the middle finger: the metacarpal, first dorsal interosseous by the branch which passes upwards to join the posterior carpal arch, and a branch from the deep palmar arch which joins the anterior carpal arch. (3) For the ring finger: the deep palmar arch and recurrent twigs from the I second dorsal interosseous in the same manner as for the middle finger. (4) For the little finger: the ulnar and its deep branch; also twigs from the second dorsal interosseous. The nerves are supplied to these joints by the deep palmar branch of the ulnar, the posterior interosseous, and the median. The movements permitted at these joints, though slight, serve to increase those j of the medio-carpal and wrist-joints. The joint between the fifth metacarpal and the unciform bones approaches somewhat in shape and mobility the first carpo- I metacarpal joint; it has a greater range of flexion and extension, but its lateral movement is nearly as limited as that of the three other metacarpal bones; the process of the unciform bone limits its flexion. Lateral motion towards the ulnar side is checked by the strong palmar band which unites the base of the fifth \ metacarpal to the base of the third, and the strong transverse ligament at the head of the bones. The mobility of the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones is very limited, and consists almost entirely of a slight gliding upon the carpal I bones, i.e. flexion and extension; that of the third and fourth bones is extremelv 16