851 EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL the nerve-trunk, and then divides into branches which run in the inner layers of the retina, and divide dichotoinously as they radiate towards the equator. The smaller branches lie more deeply in the retina, but none penetrate into the nerve-epithelium, so that the fovea centralis is non-vascular. In the retina, the branches of the cen- tral artery do not communicate with any other arteries, but while still in the optic nerve fine communications take place between this artery and neighbouring vessels. Thus (a) minute twigs from it, which help to nourish the axial part of the nerve, communicate with those running in the septa derived from the pial sheath. Again, as the nerve passes through the sclerotic, it is surrounded by a vascular ring (circle Fig. 478.—Diagrammatic Representation op the Blood-vessels of the Eyeball. (Leber.) Arteries red ; veins blue. Canal of Schlemm and con- nections with anterior ciliary vein Branch from ciliary body to anter ior ciliary vein Vessels of ciliary processes Vein from iris and ciliary body to vena vorticosa Branch from short posterior ciliary artery to optic nerve Short posterior ciliary artery_ Vena centralis retince •Marginal corneal plexus interior conjunctival vein Circulusiridis major or conjunctival vein Anterior ciliary vein Posterior conjunctival artery Anterior ciliary artery Episcleral vein Episcleral artery Vena vorticosa Posterior long ciliary artery posterior short ciliary arteries Vessels of pial sheath of optic nerve Vessels of dural sheath Arteria centralis retince of Haller), formed of fine branches derived from the short posterior ciliary arteries; fine twigs passing inwards from this ring to the optic nerve, join the vessels of the pial sheath, and (b) an indirect communication is thus brought about between the retinal and ciliary vessels. Finally, as the nerve passes through the choroid, there is (c) a direct connection between these two sets of vessels, the capillary network of the optic nerve being here continuous with the chorio-capillaris. Not infrequently, a branch from a short posterior ciliary artery pierces the optic papilla, and then courses over the adjoining retina (a cilio-retinal artery), supplying the latter in part in place of the central artery.