THE ARTICULATIONS 278 external cuneiform to a groove on the outer edge of the second metatarsal bone between the two lateral facets. The synovial membrane is prolonged forwards from that of the scapho-cunei- form and inter-cuneiform articulations. (c) The Cubo-metatarsal Joint Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The bones comprising this joint are the fourth and fifth metatarsal, and the anterior surface of the cuboid, firmly connected on all sides by Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous ligaments. The plantar cubo-metatarsal ligament is a broad, well-marked ligament, which extends from the cuboid behind to the bases of the fourth and fifth meta- Fig. 258.—Section to show the Synovial Cavities of the Foot. 1. Posterior caleaneo-astragaloid. 2. Calcaneo-cuboid. 3. Anterior caleaneo-astragalo-seaphoid. 4. Tarsal. 5. Cubo-metatarsal. 6. First metatarso-cuneiform. tarsal bones in front. It is continuous along the groove at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone with the dorsal ligament, and as it passes round the outer border of the foot it is somewhat thickened, and may be described as the external cubo- metatarsal ligament. On its inner side it joins the interosseous ligaments, thus completing the capsule below. It is not a thick structure, and to see it the long plantar ligament, the peroneus longus, and external slip of the tibialis posticus must be removed; the attachment of these structures to the fourth and fifth meta- tarsal bones considerably assists to unite them with the tarsus. The dorsal cubo-metatarsal ligament is composed of fibres which pass obliquely outwards and forwards from the cuboid to the bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. They complete the capsule above, and are continuous externally with the external cubo-metatarsal ligament. The interosseous ligament shuts off the cubo-metatarsal from the middle tarso- metatarsal joint. It is attached to the external cuneiform behind, and to the whole depth of the fourth metatarsal behind its internal lateral facet, and to the apposed surfaces of the third and fourth bones below their articular facets. It is continuous below with the plantar ligament. The synovial membrane is separate from the other synovial sacs of the tarsus, and is continued between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones.