2S7 THEIR ACTION AS LEVERS this refers to the angle of the attachment of the tendon to the lever which has to be moved, and not to the general direction, which is often changed by the passage of the tendon or muscle over projections of bone or under arches of ligament before it reaches its insertion. The advantage of an oblique insertion may also be illustrated by the action of muscular fibres, which cross one another like the two parts of the letter X in their passage between two parallel bones; e.g. in the internal and external intercostal muscles connecting adjacent ribs, or in the external and internal oblique muscles of the abdomen in their passage from the crest of the ilium to the last rib. If the muscles connecting the parallel bones ran at right angles to them, they could only by their contraction diminish the intervening space by one-half; whereas, running obliquely, they produce by their contraction a much greater approximation of the bones. For let A B and C D represent two parallel bones, and E F a muscular fibre running perpendicularly from one to the other. If its full contraction reduced the length of the fibre by one-half, it would merely draw the point E to E'. But suppose that two muscular fibres C E and D E converge at right angles to each other upon the point E; the amount that they will have to contract to draw E to E' may be readily found by describing the arc of a circle E' K or E' L about C or D as a centre, and with C E' or D E' as a radius. E K and E L will represent the contraction Fig. 261. A E B F D required; and it is evident that if these oblique fibres contract more strongly, they can bring the bone A B into close apposition with C D. When muscles pass over more than one joint, their action is somewhat more complicated. Usually other muscles are at the same time called into play, so as to fix some of the joints, and enable the muscle to act solely upon others. For example, when the muscles arising above the wrist are used to extend the phalanges of the fingers, it will be found that some of the flexors of the carpus contract so as to fix the wrist. Similarly, if the fingers are flexed in grasping an object, it is easy to feel the tendons of the carpal extensors starting up into firm contraction. Occasionally the passage of a muscle over two joints is used to obtain very swift and vigorous action. For example, if the long head of the triceps, which extends from the axillary border of the shoulder-blade to the olecranon process, were replaced by an inextensible ligament, which should be tight with the arm down and the elbow flexed, the elevation of the humerus by the deltoid muscle would necessitate a corresponding extension of the elbow. Now put in the place of the inextensible ligament an actively contracting muscle, and it is clear that the combination of this elevation of the arm by the deltoid with contraction of the triceps will produce a much more rapid extension of the elbow, such as is seen in throwing a sjjear or a stone.