828 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM many grey rami communicantes. Occasionally the number of rami is increased to five or six. The ganglion is occasionally constricted at intervals—these constric- tions affording an indication of the individual ganglia by the coalescence of which the superior cervical ganglion is formed. Branches.—The branches of the superior cervical ganglion are the ascending branch; branches which follow the distribution of the external carotid artery (nervi molles); branches of communication to cranial nerves; pharyngeal nerves; the superior cervical cardiac nerve, and branches to the upper cervical vertebrae and their ligaments. 1. The ascending branch enters the carotid canal in the temporal bone and divides into a larger external branch which forms the carotid plexus, and a smaller internal branch which ends in the cavernous plexus. These plexuses communicate frequently with one another around the artery, and may be regarded as different parts of the same plexus rather than distinct plexuses. The carotid plexus is formed by repeatedly communicating branches, which follow the internal carotid artery in the carotid canal, keeping close to the outer side of that vessel. The following nerves arise from it: tympanic; great deep petrosal; and a communicating branch to the sixth nerve. (a) The tympanic branch (small deep petrosal) enters a minute canal (carotico-tympanic canal) in the temporal bone, by which it is conducted to the tympanic plexus (page 768). (6) The great deep petrosal nerve passes forwards and inwards through the cartilage which occupies the foramen lacerum medium, and unites with the great superficial petrosal to form the Vidian nerve (page 755). (c) The branches to the Gasserian ganglion are given off from the plexus as it emerges from the carotid canal. (d) The branches to the sixth nerve are very distinct, and can be easily seen when the cavernous sinus is opened. They join the abducens as it is crossing the outer side of the internal carotid artery. The cavernous plexus is placed on the inner side of the internal carotid artery near the pituitary body. Its terminal offsets follow the ophthalmic and cerebral branches of the internal carotid artery. In addition to these it gives off the fol- lowing branches:—■ (a) Communicating branches to the third, fourth, and ophthalmic divi- sion of the fifth cranial nerves. (6) The sympathetic root of the lenticular ganglion. This root is usually in the form of several fine filaments which enter the ganglion at its posterior border. (c) Two or three fine twigs enter the pituitary body. 2. The nervi molles are given off from the anterior part of the superior cervical ganglion, and accompany the branches of the external carotid artery. We have already noted, in the description of the fifth cranial nerve, that the otic and sub- maxillary ganglia receive their sympathetic roots from plexuses of the sympathetic which reach them via the middle meningeal and facial arteries respectively. In addition to these roots to the ganglia, vaso-motor branches, and twigs which enter the parotid gland, are given off. Other twigs, taking a downward direction, enter the intercarotic and thyroid bodies; the latter follow the course of the superior thyroid vessels. 3. Communicating branches to cranial nerves.—Branches of communication arise directly from the ganglion to join the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, and hypo- glossal nerves. Communications are effected with the ganglia of the root and trunk of the vagus, and with the jugular and petrous ganglia of the glosso-pharyngeal. 4. The pharyngeal branches, four or five in number, pass downwards and inwards behind the external and internal carotid arteries to join the pharyngeal plexus. 5. The superior cervical cardiac nerve arises from the lower part of the ganglion, or occasionally from the nerve-cord between the superior and middle cervical ganglia. The nerves of the two sides run a corresponding course in the neck, but differ in their arrangement in the thorax. In the neck, each nerve is directed downwards on the prevertebral fascia in front of the longus colli muscle,