1035 PENIS AND URETHRA a compressor of the dorsal vein. The rest of the fibres pass around the bulb to become lost in the connective tissue on the dorsal aspect of the latter, between it and the corpora cavernosa; the two muscles thus practically encircle the bulb, and act as an annular sphincter upon the contained portion of the urethra. It is often joined by fibres from the sphincter ani and deep transversus perineei. The superficial transversus perinaei is the most variable of all the perinaeal muscles. It usually arises from the inner surface of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, blending with the origin of the ischio-cavernosus, and passes inwards and forwards to its insertion into the tendinous centre of the perinaeum, interlacing with the posterior fibres of origin of the bulbo-cavernosus. Some of its fibres may blend with those of the sphincter ani and levator ani. These three pairs of muscles possess each a thin fascial sheath, and lie in the superficial perinaeal interspace between the fascia of Colles and the superficial triangular ligament. They are supplied by branches of the deej) division of the superficial perinaeal nerves and vessels. The action of the penile muscles is not very obvious. The compressores vena? dorsalis Avhen present may aid in erection by impeding the return of venous blood from the organ, but there is no reason to believe that any disadvantage attaches to their absence. The bulbo-cavernosus, with its fellow, is. however, of value as a compressor of the bulbous portion of the urethra, and thus assists in the ejaculation of the semen, continuing the action of the ejaculatory fibres of the prostate and of the deep transversus perinaei; and it may also be of service in expelling the last drops of the urine. The compression of the vessels of the bulb favours the engorgement of the rest of the corpus spongiosum. The ischio-cavernosus in the absence of its dorsal fasciculus can scarcely justify its older name of erector penis, but it appears to have the power of impressing voluntary movements upon the turgid organ. The superficial transversus perinaei is accessory to the bulbo-cavernosus, fixing the raphe from which its fibres arise, and it adds slightly to the strength of the muscular floor of the pelvis. Vessels and Nerves of the Penis. Artery.—The envelopes of the penis are supplied by the external pudic, the superficial perinaeal, and the dorsal artery; the first from the femoral, the others from the internal pudic. The corpora cavernosa are supplied by the cavernous branch of the pudic; the corpus spongiosum by the special artery of the bulb (internal pudic) and the dorsal artery. Veins.—The veins of the coverings of the penis end in one or two superficial dorsal veins which run in the connective tissue layer between the dartos and fascial sheath, and end in the long saphenous and femoral veins. The deep veins of the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum terminate partly in the plexus of Santorini (chiefly through the deep dorsal vein), and partly in the internal pudic. They communicate freely with each other and with the superficial veins. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics run with the veins, those of the coverings being collected by superficial dorsal trunks which pass to the inguinal glands. The deep lymphatics from the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum for the most part join a dorsal cord which runs with the deep dorsal vein to end in the inguinal glands; a few probably reach the pelvic and lumbar glands. Nerves.—The integumentary structures are supplied by the genital branch of the genito-crural and the superficial perinaeal branches of the pudic. The erectile bodies receive filaments from the dorsal nerve of the penis, the superficial perinaeal, and the hypogastric plexus. THE URETHRA The urethra is the mucous canal extending from the bladder to the extremity of the glans penis. In its course it pierces the prostate from base to apex, the deep and superficial triangular ligaments with the intervening compressor urethrae, and the whole length of the corpus spongiosum. It may hence be divided into three segments:—(1) Prostatic; (2) membranous (the portion lying in the space between the two transverse ligaments); and (3) spongy (fig. 630). The prostatic portion runs almost vertically downwards from the internal