THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS 1026 bottom of the scrotum. It begins to descend in the early part of the. third month of foetal life, reaching the internal inguinal ring in the sixth month. It then passes obliquely through the structures of the abdominal wall, preceded by a pouch of peritoneum and pushing before it, in succession, the subperitoneal tissue, an infundibuliform prolongation of the fascia transversalis, a few fibers of the internal oblique (which form part of the external cremaster), and the intercolumnar fascia, which braces together the pillars of the external inguinal ring. At the eighth month it appears at the external ring, and reaches the bottom of the scrotum shortly before birth. The cause of this migration is still uncertain. The theory usually adopted is that the descent is effected partly by the development of the pelvic and lumbar regions which grow upwards, and in a manner leave the testicle, fixed bytheguber- naculum, behind. This accounts for the change of position to the level of the inguinal canal, but the mechanism of the further descent into the scrotum is unknown. It was formerly attributed to the progressive shortening of the guber- naculum, and in accordance with this view, the unstriped muscular fibres connect- ing the bottom of the gland with the scrotum are regarded as the remains of the central and principal gubernacular band, while the lateral bands, ceasing to act after the testicle has reached the external ring, are drawn down into the scrotum and appear as scattered groups of fibres, the internal cremaster of Henle, lying around the elements of the spermatic cord (fig. 626). In certain individuals, the descent of one or both testicles into the scrotum is intercepted, and cryptorchism results. This condition is normal in certain animals (elephants, cetacea, etc.), but in man is always associated with defective evolution of the organ, and consequent suppression of function. The peritoneal sac carried with the testicle is at first continuous with the abdominal peritoneum. In most cases the tube of communication gradually narrows, and at length, within a few days after birth, becomes entirely closed. Sometimes, however, the process of obliteration is more or less incomplete. Should it fail altogether, a portion of the abdominal viscera may pass into the tunica vaginalis, and constitute the congenital variety of inguinal hernia; or peritoneal fluid may accumulate in the testicular sac and form a congenital hydrocele. More frequently the continuity of the tunica vaginalis with the peritoneum is interrupted; but a slender pouch of peritoneum, the processus vaginalis, may run into the inguinal canal, and even through the external ring into the cord, or the tunica vaginalis may be prolonged upwards upon the cord for a considerable distance. Should any portion of the abdominal contents enter the processus vaginalis, it may pass through the inguinal canal as a hernia, and descend into the scrotum. If at the same time the upward extension of the tunica vaginalis be present, the hernia with its sac may pass within it or invaginate it, and a surgeon called upon to operate in such a case would probably open the tunica vaginalis before reaching the peritoneal sac, and thus meet with three layers of serous membrane before exposing the extruded intestine. A hernia of this kind is called ' infantile.' Cystic tumors may be formed by the distension of small unobliterated segments of the funicular portion of the tube, and are called encysted hydroceles of the cord. Structure (fig. 623).—The testicle proper consists of a tubular parenchyma enclosed within a strong fibrous tunic, the tunica albuginea. The tunica albuginea (figs. 621, 623) is a dense, white, inelastic capsule of about one-twenty-fifth of an inch (1 mm. ) in thickness in the greater part of its extent, but reaching two or three times this admeasurement beneath the epididymis where it forms the mediastinum testis, or Corpus Highmorianum. It is perforated at its upper and back part by the efferent seminal tubes which go to form the globus major of the epididymis, and from its inner surface pass a number of sustentacular processes, in the form of thread-like fibro-muscular filaments and delicate septal planes of connective tissue, the trabecular The mediastinum extends forwards from the upper half of the posterior border, occupying about a fourth of the sagittal and a third of the transverse diameter of the interior, and is tunnelled by blood-vessels and a network of seminal tubes (the rete testis). The trabecular radiate from the deep aspect of the mediastinum to the inner surface