BRANCHES OF OPHTHALMIC 501 mesenchyma invaginated the primary optic vesicle on its ventral aspect to form the vitreous. Its further description is given in the Anatomy of the Eye. (d) The Muscular Branches The muscular branches are very variable in their origin and distribution. They may be roughly divided into superior and inferior sets. The superior or smaller set supply the superior oblique, the levator palpebral, and superior rectus. The inferior pass forward between the optic nerve and the inferior rectus, supply- ing that muscle, the internal rectus, and the inferior oblique. From the muscular branches are given off the anterior ciliary arteries. (See Ciliary Arteries. ) (e) The Ciliary Arteries The ciliary arteries are divided into three sets:—The short posterior, the long posterior, and the anterior, (i) The short posterior, five to six in number, come off chiefly from the ophthalmic as it is crossing the optic nerve. They run forwards about the nerve, dividing into twelve or fifteen small vessels, which per- forate the sclerotic around the entrance of the optic nerve, and are distributed to the choroid coat, (ii) The long posterior ciliary arteries, usually two in number, come off from the ophthalmic on either side of the optic nerve, and run forwards with the short ciliary to the sclerotic. On piercing the sclerotic, they course for- wards, one on either side in the equatorial line, between that coat and the choroid to the ciliary processes and iris. Their further distribution is given under the Anatomy of the Eye. (iii) The anterior ciliary are derived from the muscular branches and from the lachrymal. They run to the globe along the tendons of the recti, forming a zone of radiating vessels beneath the conjunctiva. They perforate the sclerotic about a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) behind the cornea, and supply the iris and ciliary processes. It is these vessels that are enlarged and congested in iritis, forming the circumcorneal zone of redness so characteristic of that disease. They then differ from the tortuous vessels of the conjunctiva in that they are straight and parallel. (/) The Posterior Ethmoidal Artery The posterior ethmoidal runs inwards between the superior oblique and internal rectus, and, leaving the orbit by the posterior ethmoidal canal, together with the spheno-ethmoidal branch of the nasal nerve, enters the posterior ethmoidal cells, whence it passes through a transverse slit-like aperture between the sphenoid bone and cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone into the cranium. It gives off (i) ethmoidal branches to the posterior ethmoidal cells; (ii) meningeal branches to the dura mater lining the cribriform plate; and (iii) nasal branches, which pass through the cribriform plate to the superior meatus and upper spongy bones of the nose, and anastomose with the nasal branches of the spheno-palatine artery. (g) The Anterior Ethmoidal Artery The anterior ethmoidal (figs. 339, 387), a larger branch than the posterior ethmoidal, arises in front of the latter, passes inwards between the superior oblique and internal rectus, and, leaving the orbit through the anterior ethmoidal canal, in company with the nasal nerve, enters the cranial cavity. After running a short distance beneath the dura mater on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, it passes into the nose through the horizontal slit-like aperture by the side of the crista galli. Its terminal branch passes along the groove on the under surface of the nasal bone, and emerges on the nose between the bone and lateral cartilage, terminating in the skin of that organ. It gives off the following branches in its course:—(i) Ethmoidal, to the anterior ethmoidal cells; (ii) meningeal, to the dura mater of the anterior fossa; (iii) nasal, to the middle meatus and anterior part of the nose; (iv) frontal, to the frontal sinuses; (v) cutaneous, or terminal, to the skin of the nose.