223 THE SHOULDER-JOINT it is fixed on the dorsal aspect to the prominent rough surface of the glenoid pro- cess, reaching as far as the neck of the bone. Above, it is attached to the root of the coracoid process: in front, to the ventral surface of the glenoid process, at a variable distance from the articular margin, often reaching half an inch (12 mm.) upon the neck of the bone, and thus allowing the formation of a pouch; it may not, however, extend for more than a quarter of an inch (6 mm. ) beyond the articular margin: below, it blends with the origin of the long head of the triceps. At the humerus, the upper half is fixed to the anatomical neck, sending a pro- longation downwards between the two tuberosities which attenuates as it descends, and covers the transverse humeral ligament. The lower half of the capsule descends upon the humerus further from the articular margin, some of the deeper fibres being reflected upwards so as to be attached close to the articular edge, thus forming a kind of fibrous investment for the neck of the humerus. This ligament is more uniform in thickness than that of the hip. Gleno-humeral bands of the capsule (figs. 224 and 225).—There are three Fig. 224.—Vertical Section through the Shoulder-joint to show the Gleno- humeral Ligament. (The joint is opened from behind.) Suprascapular ligament accessory bands which strengthen the capsule, two of which are seen superficially, and consist of a few strengthening fibres, one on the inner aspect reaching from the glenoid cavity to the lower border of the lesser tuberosity along the lower border of the subscapularis tendon; and the inferior reaching from the under part of the glenoid cavity to the under part of the neck of the humerus. The third, the superior band, is known as the gleno-humeral ligament, and can only be seen after open- ing the capsule. It runs from the edge of the glenoid cavity at the root of the coracoid process, just internal to the origin of the long tendon of the biceps, and, passing inwards and downwards at an acute angle to the tendon, for which it forms a slight groove or sulcus, is fixed to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. It is a thin, ribbon-like band, of which the upper surface is attached to the capsule, while the other is free and turned towards the joint. In the foetus it is often, and in the adult occasionally, quite free from the capsule, and may be as thick as the long tendon of the biceps (fig. 225). The tendons of the supra- and infraspinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles strengthen and support the capsule, especially near their points of inser-