448 THE MUSCLES a branch from the loop of communication between this nerve and the communi- cantes hypoglossi which enters the deep surface of the muscle close to its junction with the tendon. Action.—(1) To draw down the hyoid bone; (2) very slightly to help in raising the scapula; (3) to make tense the lower part of the cervical fascia. In tins way it assists the platysma myoides in diminishing the inward suction of the soft parts, which tends to compress the great vessels and the apices of the lungs during prolonged inspiratory efforts. The part of the muscle between the sterno-mastoid and the carotid sheath, being tendinous, will not vary in thickness, otherwise during contraction it might tend to obstruct the vessels beneath. Relations.—Superficially, the deep cervical fascia, sterno-mastoid, clavicle, subclavius and trapezius, the external jugular vein, and the descending branches of the superficial cervical plexus; deeply, the thyro-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, scaleni, and the first digitation of the serratus magnus, the sheath of the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein, the upper part of the brachial plexus, often the third part of the subclavian artery with the transversalis colli and suprascapular vessels and the suprascapular nerve. Variations.—These are very frequent. It may be absent or double. The posterior belly may be attached to the clavicle and scapula, or to the clavicle alone. It may receive a slip from the manubrium. The anterior belly may blend with the sterno-hyoid, and it may send a slip to the thyroid cartilage or the mandible. Second Layer of Infra-hyoid Muscles This consists of two muscles—the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid. 1. STERNO-THYROID The sterno-thyroid (figs. 301 and 314)—named from its attachment to the sternum and thyroid cartilages—is flat and ribbon-shaped. Origin.—(1) The lower part and side of the back of the manubrium (prester- num), from the middle line to the notch for the first rib cartilage; (2) the back of the first rib cartilage, and occasionally that of the second; and (3) occasionally from the back of the clavicle near the facet for the first costal cartilage. Insertion.—The oblique line on the outer surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the two muscles form broad bands of parallel fibres, which at first lie close to one another, and afterwards diverge slightly as they ascend. Finally, they are inserted by short tendinous fibres into the thyroid cartilage. Occasionally, the muscle is crossed by a tendinous intersection. Nerve-supply.—Branches from the loop between the descendens and the com- municantes hypoglossi which enter the outer part of the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—(1) To draw down the thyroid cartilage, e.g. after swallowing; (2) in conjunction with the thyro-hyoid it will depress the hyoid bone. Relations.—Superficially, the cervical fascia, the anterior jugular vein, the sterno-mastoid and sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles; deeply, the inferior con- strictor, the cricoid cartilage, crico-thyroid muscle, thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins and trachea, the common carotid artery and left innominate vein. Variations.—This muscle may be absent or double; the muscles of the two sides may be united. It may send a slip to the carotid sheath. 2. THYRO-HYOID The thyro-hyoid—named from its attachment to the thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone—is a quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—The oblique line on the outer surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage.