THE SKELETON 46 Articulations.—The parietal articulates with its fellow, the occipital, squa- mosal, frontal, sphenoid, and the epipteric bones when present. Occasionally the squamosal and epipteric may exclude the parietal from union with the greater wing of the sphenoid. Blood-supply.—From the middle meningeal, occipital, and supraorbital arteries. Ossification.—The parietal ossifies from an earthy spot deposited in the outer layer of the membranous wall of the skull about the seventh week. This bone is sometimes divided by a horizontal suture. THE FRONTAL This bone bears much the same relation to the anterior part of the skull that the occipital bears to the posterior. It has, not inaptly, been compared to a cockle shell. The inner or posterior surface is concave, forming a deep fossa for the Fig. 56.—The Frontal, (Anterior view.) ilk' I FRONTAL EMINENCE TEMPORAL RIDGE SUPRAORBITAL NOTCH EXTERNAL ANGULAR PROCESS reception of the frontal lobes of the cerebrum. There is a gap in the lower part of the bone known as the ethmoidal notch, which overlaps by its thin edges the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and forms, with that bone, the internal orifices of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals. The anterior part of this notch articulates with the crista galli, and the small hole in the line of suture is the foramen caecum. Prolonged vertically upwards from the point of union with the crista is a ridge of bone, which gradually opens out to form a furrow for the reception of the superior longitudinal sinus; the ridge serves for the attachment of the anterior part of the falx cerebri. The thin laminae of bone on each side of the ethmoidal notch are termed orbital plates, because they form the greater part of the roof of each orbit. As a rule, they present deep depressions for the convo- lutions on the orbital surface of the cerebrum. The rest of the cerebral surface of the frontal is fairly smooth, and presents a few furrows for meningeal arteries, and, near the median groove, pits for Pacchionian bodies. The external surface is convex and smooth, often divided by an imperfect