1130 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY not projecting, in a healthy adult, beyond the labia majora. They are small folds of skin, which meet above in the prepuce of the clitoris, and below blend with the labia majora about their centre. The glans clitoridis, covered by its prepuce, occupies the middle line above. Below it comes the vestibule, a triangular smooth surface of mucous membrane, bounded above by the clitoris, below by the upper margin of the vaginal orifice, and laterally by the labia minora. In the middle line of the vestibule and towards its lower part, about half an inch (12 mm.) below the glans clitoridis, and an inch (25 mm.) above the fourchette, is the meatus or opening of the urethra (figs. 698, 699). The vaginal orifice lies in the middle line between the base of the vestibule Fig. 699.—Section of the Female Pelvis. (After Henle.) VESICAL'WALL CAVITY OF BLADDER — Prevesical fat \\ n \ ' " \ ' , , Dorsal vein CLITORIS Deep transver- sus perineei LABIUM MAJUS Unstriped muscular fibre URETHRA LABIUM MINUS Unstriped muscular fibre ANUS Internal sphincter ani Part of external sphincter ani RECTUM COCCYX Recto-coccy- geal muscle POSTERIOR LIP OF OS UTERI ANTERIOR LIP VAGINA External sphincter ani Internal sphincter ani Vessels VAGINAL ORIFICE above, and the fossa navicularis below. Its orifice is partially closed in the virgin by a fold of mucous membrane, the hymen (fig. 631). This is usually crescentic in shape, attached below to the posterior margin of the vaginal orifice, and with a free edge towards the base of the vestibule. In some cases it is diaphragmatic, i.e. attached all around, but perforated in the centre (fig. 698). The shrivelled remains of the hymen probably constitute the carunculse myrtiformes. On either side of the vaginal orifice, at its lower part, lie the racemose, muciparous glands of Bartholin, situated beneath the superficial perinatal fascia and sphincter vaginae. Their ducts run slightly upwards and open, external to the attachment of the hymen, within the labia minora. Fourchette and fossa navicularis.—The fourchette, as stated above, is the lower commissure of the labia majora. Normally the inner aspect of this is in