THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 722 follow: fissura longitudinalis anterior, sulcus parapyramidalis, sulcus lateralis ven- tralis, sulcus postolivaris, sulcus lateralis dorsalis, sulcus paramedianus dorsalis, fissura longitudinalis posterior. As will be seen from the previous description, however, this summary applies only to the upper or proximal part of the medulla; in the distal part the fissures become reduced in number owing to some of them becoming confluent with others. Certain of the above-mentioned fissures divide the medulla into columns or areas corresponding, for the most part, to the columns of the cord. Thus we have an anterior area between the anterior fissure and the sulcus lateralis ventralis, a lateral area between the last-named fissure and the sulcus lateralis dorsalis, and a posterior area between the sulcus lateralis dorsalis and the posterior fissure. The anterior area of the medulla is occupied, for the greater part of its extent, by the pyramidal bodies. These are a pair of prominences somewhat pyriform in outline, which lie on each side of the anterior median fissure. Their larger ends are directed upwards and abut against the pons where they become slightly con- stricted. Laterally, they are marked off by the sulci parapyramidales. Their Fig. 429.—Transverse Section through the Upper Part of the Pons. (Schwalbe.) DESCENDING BOOT OF VALVE OF VIEUSSENS LING FLA TRIGEMINAL apices are directed downwards and correspond to the decussation of the pyramids. The greater number of the fibres pass across at this point and make their way into the lateral column of the opposite side of the cord (lateral pyramidal tract); a small bundle, however, of the outermost fibres of each pyramid runs downwards in the anterior column of the cord of the same side (anterior pyramidal tract). The remainder of the anterior column is occupied by the funiculus anterior. Tins is a triangular area of white substance which intervenes between the sulcus parapyramidalis and the sulcus lateralis ventralis. Its base is directed downwards, and is continuous with the anterior ground bundle of the anterior column of the cord. Its apex, directed upwards, is wedged in between the olivary and pyramidal bodies. The progressive diminution of the tract when traced upwards is owing to its fibres receding from the surface, being overlapped by the pyramidal body. The lateral area of the medulla is narrow below, being formed by the continua- tion of a portion only of the lateral column of the cord. Higher up it expands and presents: (a) The olivary body and (6) the tubercle of Rolando. The lateral column is a band which passes upwards between the sulcus lateralis ventralis and the sulcus lateralis dorsalis. Above, it passes behind the lower part of the olivary