SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1084 ment of the bony external meatus below, and an imaginary line joining the above boundaries (fig. 660). 'Roughly speaking, if the orifice of the external osseous meatus be bisected horizontally, the upper half would be on the level of the mastoid antrum. If this segment be again bisected vertically, its posterior half would again correspond to the junction of the antrum and middle ear, and immediately behind this lies the suprameatal fossa' (Macewen). When opening the antrum through this triangle, the operator should work forwards, and inwards, so as to avoid the sigmoid sinus (fig. 660); while, to avoid the facial nerve (fig. 660), he should bring the root of the zygoma and the upper part of the bony meatus as close as possible. The level of the base of the brain will be a few lines above the posterior root of the zygoma (fig. 659) and about one-quarter of an inch above the roof of the bony meatus (Macewen). B. The lower or vertical cells of the mastoid are developed later than is the antrum, and vary much in their contents. In only about twenty per cent, do they contain air. The veins passing from the mastoid cells and tympanum fall into three chief groups —(a) those opening into the lateral sinus; (b) those passing through the mastoid foramen into the occipital and scalp veins; (c) those running through the petro- squamosal suture to the dura mater. As all these veins carry connective-tissue Fig. 662.—Horizontal Section of Left Temporal Bone, showing the Various Parts of the Ear. tympanic ring tympanum sheaths, inflammation may reach—(a) the lateral sinus, causing septic phlebitis; (b) the soft parts outside, causing cellulitis, periostitis, etc.; (c) the dura mater and brain, leading to meningitis and abscess. The sphenoidal sinuses are less important surgically, but these points should be remembered:—(1) Fracture through them may lead to bleeding from the nose, which is thus brought into communication with the middle fossa; (2) the com- munication of their mucous membrane with that of the nose may explain the inveteracy of certain cases of ozsena; (3) here and in the frontal sinuses very dense exostoses are sometimes formed. THE SCALP.—The importance of the scalp is best seen from an examination of its layers (fig. 663). These are—(1) skin; (2) subcutaneous fat and fibrous tissue; (3) the occipito-frontalis and aponeurosis; (4) the sub- aponeurotic layer of connective tissue; (5) the pericranium and subpericranial connective tissue. The first three layers are connected and move together. (1) The union of the skin, and its density, are to enable it to meet pressure, and also to prevent it rucking into folds. Furthermore, they account for the extreme pain of inflamma- tion here, and the difficulty of raising a blister on the scalp. The presence of