993 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL The simple alimentary tube.—The alimentary canal first appears as a simple tube lying about the median line in front of the posterior abdominal parietes, and placed vertically. This tube is connected with the posterior parietes by a simple fold of peritoneum—a species of general mesentery (fig. 592). The fact that the abdominal cavity is at an early period open in front, and that the rudimentary intestine protrudes beyond the limits of the future cavity may be disregarded. The cavity, such as it is, is lined by a membrane which is later recognisable as the peritoneum, and the general mesentery is produced by the growth and protrusion forwards of the elementary bowel from the tissues behind, i. e., outside the peritoneum. The simple straight tube, suspended on the posterior mesial line by its fold of peritoneum, becomes in due course differentiated (fig. 592). The upper part becomes the stomach; the bowel immediately beyond forms the duodenum; then follow the small intestine; and lastly the colon and rectum. The point of separation of the small bowel from the colon is indicated by the appearance of the caecum. It will be understood also that the upper part of the mesial peritoneal fold is called the meso-gaster (m-g, fig. 593); the next part the meso-duodenum (m-d); Fig. 593.—Diagram of the Primitive Alimentary Canal. and the succeeding portions, in order, the mesentery, the meso-colon, and themeso- rectum (fig. 593, mes, m-c, m-r). The stomach becomes more distinctly marked; the tube below lengthens and forms an intestinal loop, which in the embryo pro- jects beyond the site of the future umbilicus, taking the mesentery with it. This elementary condition of the intestinal canal persists in certain fully developed animals. As an example may be taken the alimentary canal of the salamander, as depicted in fig. 594. In this figure the viscera are shown undis- turbed. In fig. 595, the peritoneum has been drawn forwards so as to show the parts in one median plane, and well represents the simple arrangement. In many mammals among the Edentates the simple vertical median fold of peritoneum is retained. This is shown in the great anteater, and in Hoffman's sloth (fig. 596), where the intestinal canal, from the pylorus to the rectum, is still quite simple, although it is of considerable length, and is, as a consequence, thrown into numerous coils. The whole of this long tube is supported by a single median fold of peritoneum attached to the middle line behind, and serving the purpose of meso-duodenum, mesentery, meso-colon, and meso-rectum in one. Where this fold is attached behind, runs the aorta; and between the layers of the fold vessels pass forwards to supply the viscera. (Fig. 592, B, a, represents the 63