LYMPHATICS OF UPPER EXTREMITY 655 I. THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 1. The superficial lymphatic vessels begin around the matrix of the nail and in the pulp of the finger. Thence they run upwards, in the form of four main channels, along the side of the finger—two on the dorsal and two on the palmar aspect. The palmar set end on the convexity of a lymphatic palmar arch. From the arch, lymphatic vessels run up the forearm, more or less in two sets—an outer and an inner—roughly following the course of the superficial veins; a third or median set, starting as a plexiform arrangement in front of the wrist, runs up between the other two. The communication, however, between the three main sets of vessels is so free that, when they are minutely injected, the front of the forearm appears covered with a dense plexus of lymphatics (fig. 399). The dorsal set of digital lymphatics ends in a plexus on the back of the hand. From this plexus numerous lymphatic vessels stream up the back of the forearm, and, winding round the inner and outer borders respectively of the limb, join the lymphatics on the anterior aspect. From the bend of the elbow the lymphatics run up the arm, the greater number following the course of the basilic vein, and, dipping beneath the pectoralis major, converge to end in the axillary glands. The lymphatics from the outer side of the arm run in chief part obliquely across the biceps, towards the axilla; but a few accompany the cephalic vein to the infraclavicular lymphatic glands. The lym- phatics over the deltoid also mainly end in these glands. 2. The superficial lymphatic glands are few in number. There are none, as a rule, below the bend of the elbow. Occasionally there is one at the bend of the elbow, and constantly two or three are found above the internal condyle (epitrochlear glands), in the course of the lymphatic vessels running with the basilic vein. II. THE DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 1. The deep lymphatic vessels accompany the arteries of the upper extremity. Hence in the forearm they are found along the course of the radial, the ulnar, the anterior interosseous, and the posterior interosseous arteries. At the bend of the elbow they converge, and follow the course of the brachial and axillary arteries to the axilla, and there end, together with the superficial lymphatics of the upper extremity and the superficial lymphatics from the side of the chest and back of the shoulder, in the axillary lymphatic glands. They communicate with the superficial lymphatics at the wrist. 2. The deep lymphatic glands.—A few small glands are occasionally found in the course of the lymphatic vessels accompanying the arteries of the forearm, and, more often, a few in the course of those accompanying the brachial artery. But the first important set of deep glands is met with in the axilla. The axillary glands are numerous and of large size. They are about twelve in number. They are arranged in four chief sets—a median set, three or more in number, situated along the course of the axillary artery and vein (axillary glands proper); an inner or anterior set, four or five in number, situated below the greater pectoral muscles in the course of the long thoracic artery, on the outer surface of the serratus magnus (pectoral glands); a posterior or external set, usually two in number, situated along the course of the subscapular artery, under cover of the latissimus dorsi (subscapular glands); and a superior set, usually two in number, situated just below the clavicle close to the cephalic vein, upon the costo-coracoid membrane in the fossa beneath the pectoralis major and deltoid (subclavian or infraclavicular glands). The axillary glands proper, or the glands along the course of the axillary artery and vein, receive the larger number of lymphatics from the arm. The pectoral