THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 994 intestinal tube to which an artery is passing.) There will be an artery to the stomach (1, fig. 593) and the great mesenteric artery. The latter vessel will supply the rudimentary duodenum, the small intestines, the caecum, and such part of the colon as is later on known as the ascending and transverse segments. The arrange- ment of the vessel is shown in figs. 593, 2, and 596. The descending colon and rectum are supplied by a separate vessel, the inferior mesenteric, direct from the aorta (3, figs. 593 and 596). At the summit of the primitive loop which forms the principal part of the intes- tine will be the vitello-intestinal duct or vitelline stalk ( v. d, fig. 593; a,fig. 592,A). It is to this point that the great or superior mesenteric artery is directed. The morphological ending of the superior mesenteric artery is at this spot, while branches pass off from either side of it. The student may be reminded that a trace of the vitelline duct may persist in the form of a process known as Meckel's diverticulum, and that this process, when existing, is situated in the lower part of the ileum not far from the caecum (page 967). In the adult the trunk of the artery may be represented by a line drawn from its place of origin to a point on the ileum from one to three feet from the caecum. The primitive intestinal loop increases in length, and forms longer and more complex coils. A large part of these coils will lie without the abdomen, the anterior abdominal wall being still incomplete. As the loop lengthens, a species of neck forms which tends to become narrower. Fig. 594.—Alimentary Canal of Salamandra maculosa. The upper part of this neck or strait is bounded or formed by the duodenum; the lower part by that portion of the large bowel which is at a later period known as the transverse colon (fig. 593). The transverse colon and the duodenum are thus brought near together, and it is noteworthy that, no matter how complex the relations of the bowel become, these segments of the intestinal tube are never separated. In the narrow neck formed between them runs the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. The great loop beyond this neck will form the small intestine, the caecum, and the ascending colon. The descending colon retains its simple connections with the median line (fig. 593). The mesentery does not increase in the same proportion as the intestines grow, and hence the bowel is thrown into innumerable convolutions. In the human subject the increase in the breadth of the mesentery is somewhat more noteworthy than its increase in length. There is a time, then, when the great mass of the intestine is supported by a simple but extensive mesentery, which is entirely free, and which is attached behind by means of a narrow neck bounded by the duodenum and the right end of the transverse colon, and through which the superior mesenteric artery runs. The great intestinal loop projects at first anteriorly and mesially. The small intestine is above, the large intestine below (figs. 593, 595).