RELATION OF HEART TO CHEST-WALLS 1113 other foreign body, loose in the pleural sac and rolling on the diaphragm, might fail to the lowest part of the sac, which would be between the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The ball might be extracted here. The chest might also be tapped here, but not with a trocar, since a trocar would penetrate both layers of pleura and go through the diaphragm into the abdomen. The operation should be done cautiously by an incision beginning about two inches from the spine, on the outer border of the erector spinse, on a level between the spines of the eleventh and twelfth thoracic vertebrae. The intercostal artery will not be injured if the opening be made below the middle of the space, which is very wide.' Outline of the heart. Its relation to the chest-wall.—The upper limit of the heart (base) will be defined by a line crossing the sternum a little above the upper border of the third costal cartilage, reaching about half an inch to the right and about one inch to the left. Its apex corresponds to a point in the fifth space, about two inches below the male left nipple, and an inch to the inner side. This point will be about three inches from the left border of the sternum. The right border (right auricle) will be given by a line, slightly convex outwards, drawn from the right extremity of the upper border to the right seventh chondro-sternal joint. If another line, similarly slightly convex, be drawn onwards from this point across the last piece of the sternum, just above the xiphoid cartilage, to the apex, it will give the lower border (right ventricle), which rests on the central tendon of the diaphragm. The left border (left ventricle) will be given by a line, convex to the left, passing from the left extremity of the upper border to the apex, well inside the nipple line. This line should be three inches from the middle of the sternum at the level of the fourth costal cartilage. If a circle two inches in diameter be described around a point midway between the left nipple and the lower end of the gladiolus, it will define with sufficient accuracy for practical purposes that part of the heart which lies immediately behind the chest wall, and which is uncovered by lung or pleura (Latham). The valves.—The pulmonary valves (the most superficial) lie, in front of the aortic, behind the left chondro-sternal joint, and opposite to the upper border of the third costal cartilage. The aortic valves lie behind and a little below these, opposite to the inner end of the third intercostal space, and on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage. The auriculo-ventricular open- ings lie at a somewhat lower level than that of the aortic and pulmonary. Thus the tricuspid valves lie behind the sternum at the level of the fourth intercostal space; and the mitral valves, the most deeply placed of all, lie a little to the left of these, behind the left edge of the sternum and the fourth left costal cartilage. ' Thus these valves are so situated that the mouth of an ordinary-sized stetho- scope will cover a portion of them all, if placed over the juncture of the third intercostal space, on the left side, with the sternum. All are covered by a thin layer of lung; therefore we hear their action better when the breathing is for a moment suspended ' (Holden). Relation of vessels to the wall of the thorax.—Aortic arch.—The ascending part reaches from a spot behind the sternum, a little to the left of the centre, on a level with the third left costal cartilage, to the upper border of the second right cartilage; thus it passes upwards, backwards, and to the right, and is about two inches long. The transverse part then crosses to the left behind the sternum (the highest part of the arch being about an inch below the notch), reaching from the second right costal cartilage to the lower border of the fourth thoracic vertebra on the left side. This part recedes from the surface, and, with the next, cannot be marked out on the surface. The third, or descending part, the shortest of the three, reaches from the lower border of the fourth to that of the fifth thoracic vertebra. Innominate artery.—A line drawn from the top of the arch, about an inch below the sternal notch, and a little to the right of the centre, to the right sterno- clavicular joint, will give the line of this vessel. Left common carotid.—This vessel will be denoted by a line somewhat sim- ilar to the above, passing from the level of the arch a little to the left of the last starting point to the left stemo-clavicular joint. Left subclavian artery.—A line from the end of the transverse arch, behind