1123 THE MALE PERINEUM very slightly upwards, should enter the membranous urethra just in front of the prostate. If pushed more deeply, it would enter the neck of the bladder. In lateral lithotomy the knife is entered an inch and a half (37 mm.) in front of the anus and carried downwards and outwards for two and a half or three inches (62 to 75 mm.) into the ischio-rectal fossa, ending a little below and external to the mid-point between the anus and tuber ischii. This incision begins deeply and ends more superficially. In the deeper part of the incision the knife is carried along the staff through the mem- branous urethra into the bladder. The parts divided in the operation are—skin, superficial fascia (both layers), transverse perinaeal vessels and nerves, superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves, inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, transversus perinsei muscle, base of triangular ligament (anterior layer), membranous urethra Fig. 091.—The Male Perineum. (Modified from Hirsclifeld and Leveille.) BULBO-OAVERNOSUS Superficial triangular ligament ISCHIO-CAVERNOSUS Muscles of thigh INFERIOR PUDENDAL NERVE SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL NERVE INFERIOR HEMORRHOIDAL NERVE CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF FOURTH SACRAL Gluteus maximus TUBEROSITY OF ISCHIUM Great saero-sciatic ligament Levator ani Superficial tranBversus perinaei Sphincter ani and deep muscles, a venous plexus, posterior layer of triangular ligament, prostatic urethra, and left lobe of prostate and its capsule in part, with some of the fibres of the levator prostatas. In median lithotomy, an incision an inch and a half long is made through the central tendinous point and raphe, so as to hit the membra- nous urethra. The following structures are divided:—Skin and fasciae; some of the most anterior fibres of the sphincter ani; raphe and central tendinous point; minute branches of transverse perinaeal vessels and nerves; base of triangular ligament in centre; membranous urethra and compressor urethra?. The attachments and arrangements of the superficial fascia (fig. 693) must be traced and remembered. Of the two layers of which it consists, the superficial alone extends over both urethral rectal triangles alike, and is continuous with the similar structures in adjacent regions, the only difference being that, if traced for-