EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 853 there are no lymphatic vessels in the eyeball, but the fluid is contained in spaces of various sizes. These are usually divided into an anterior and a posterior set. 1. Anteriorly, we have the anterior and posterior aqueous chambers, which communicate freely through the pupil. The aqueous humour is secreted in the posterior of these chambers, from the vessels of the ciliary body and posterior surface of the iris (see also page 849). The stream passes mainly forwards through the pupil into the anterior aqueous chamber, whence it escapes slowly by passing through the spaces of Fontana into Schlemm's canal, and thence into the anterior ciliary veins. Part of the lymph-stream passes from the posterior aqueous cham- ber backwards into the canal of Petit, out of which fluid can pass into the lens substance, or diffuse itself into the front of the vitreous. In the cornea the lymph travels in the spaces already mentioned as existing between the fibre-bundles, and in the nerve-channels, and at the periphery of the cornea it flows off into the lymphatic vessels of the conjunctiva. Fig. 480.—The Lymphatics of the Eyeball. (Diagrammatic. After Puchs.) In the iris there is a system of lymphatic spaces opening anteriorly on its free surface by the crypts previously described, and communicating peripherally with the spaces of Fontana. 2. Posteriorly, we have (a) the central or hyaloid canal, between the poste- rior pole of the lens and the optic nerve entrance, and (b) the perivascular canals of the retina; the lymph from both of these situations flows into the spaces of the optic nerve, which communicate with the intervaginal space of the nerve, and thus with the great intracranial spaces. Further, between choroid and sclerotic, we have (c) the perichoroidal space, which gets the lymph from the choroid, and communicates with Tenon's space outside the sclerotic by the perforations corre- sponding to the vasa vorticosa and posterior ciliary arteries, and with the interva- ginal space around the optic nerve entrance. Tenon's space, again, is continuous with the supravaginal space around the optic nerve, which communicates both with the intervaginal spaces, with the lymph spaces of the orbit, and directly with the intracranial spaces at the apex of the orbit.