THE SMALL INTESTINE in diameter, and is about ten inches long. It has been compared in general shape to a horseshoe, though not very aptly, as the one side is so much longer than the other. It is arranged in a curved manner round the pancreas, and readily lends itself to a division into four parts (fig. 577). The first part—the superior, or ascending—is hardly two inches long. Begin- ning at the pylorus, and passing upwards and backwards to the right, it ends at the neck of the gall-bladder. It is the most movable of the four portions. It is covered by the two layers of peritoneum which are continued from the stomach, and by these it is completely surrounded in front, but is only covered behind in the vicinity of the pylorus. Above it are found the liver (quadrate lobe) and gall bladder. The gut itself forms the lower boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Below it is the pancreas; and behind are the common bile-duct, hepatic vessels and portal vein. The second part—the descending portion—not quite three inches long, extends from the neck of the gall bladder to the third lumbar vertebra, a short bend mark- ing the separation between the first and second parts. This part is covered by peri- toneum in front only, the membrane being derived from a continuation of the superior layer of the transverse meso-colon (fig. 570). Fig. 570.—The Duodenum from in front. SUPERIOR LAYER OF TRANSVERSE MESO-COLON THIRD PART OF DUODENUM / SUPERIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS It is more fixed than the first portion. It is in relation in front with the trans- verse colon and meso-colon. On its leftside is the pancreas (fig. 577), and the common bile-duct a little more posteriorly. The loop formed by the pancreatico- duodenal arteries runs also along the left margin of this part of the bowel. Behind lie the right kidney and the renal vessels and vena cava (fig. 590). Some of the muscular fibres of this part of the duodenum are said to be continu- ous with the lobules of the pancreas. Into this segment of the bowel, at its inner and back part and some four inches from the pylorus the common bile-duct and pancreatic duct enter (figs. 571, 586, and 587). The third part, or transverse portion, is the longest, being about five inches long. It extends from the body of the third lumbar vertebra on the right side, and passes obliquely across the spine to the upper part of the left side, ascending a little on its way. In front of the third part of the duodenum is found the lower layer of the transverse meso-colon. The superior mesenteric vessels cross this part of the bowel, running between it and the pancreas to reach the mesentery (fig. 570). Along the upper border runs the inferior pancreatico-duodenal artery. The gut is in relation above with the pancreas and superior mesenteric artery. Behind are the vena cava, aorta, and crura of the diaphragm (figs. 571, 577). It is the most fixed portion of the duodenum, and is covered in front only by peritoneum.