THE MUSCLES 298 the posterior division of the same fascia, the rhomboid ligament, the subclavian vessels, and the brachial plexus. Variations.—The subclavius may be absent, or its insertion may extend to the coracoid process, transverse ligament, and upper border of the scapula. Occasionally the costoclavicular portion is separate from the costo-scapular. Again, its origin may extend inwards to the sternum, and the portion which arises from the sternum may be separate from the rest of the muscle. 2. PECTORALIS MINOR The pectoralis minor—named from its being the smaller of the two muscles which arise from the front of the chest—is a fan-shaped or triangular sheet, with its inner edge divided into three fasciculi. Origin.—(1) The upper borders and outer surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs near their anterior extremities; (2) the fascia covering the intercostal muscles in the sjDaces between these ribs. Insertion.—(1) The upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula; (2) the upper part of the tendon of the coraco-brachialis along its inner border. Structure.—Its origin is by aponeurotic slips, which, after becoming fleshy, converge upwards, outwards, and somewhat backwards, upon the flattened tendon, which is attached chiefly to the coracoid process, but blends for an inch or more below that process with the origin of the coraco-brachialis. Nerve-supply.—From the inner cord of the brachial plexus (through the eighth cervical nerve) by the internal anterior thoracic, which enters its deep sur- face near the upper border, the nerve subsequently piercing the muscle to send filaments to the pectoralis major. Its action is to draw downwards and forwards the scapula, depressing at the same time the point of the shoulder. Taking its fixed point from the coracoid process, it draws upwards and outwards the ribs to which it is attached, and so helps in forced inspiration. Its connection with the tendon of the coraco- brachialis will enable it to act slightly as a flexor and adductor of the humerus. Relations.—Superficially, the pectoralis major; deeply, the external intercostal muscles; and, near its insertion, the axillary vessels and brachial nerves. Variations.—The origin may extend upwards as far as the second, or downwards to the sixth rib, and it may receive additions from the pectoralis major. It is occasionally altogether absent. Its insertion may be continued over the coracoid process to the capsule of the shoulder-joint, the greater tuberosity of the humerus, or the clavicle. Third Layer SERRATUS MAGNUS The serratus magnus—named from its serrated or saw-like anterior border and large size—is an irregular quadrilateral sheet curved to the shape of the side of the thorax. Its anterior attached border has a somewhat sinuous curve, and arises from the side of the thorax by nine or ten digitations or teeth, which, by their saw- like appearance, give the muscle its name. The muscle may be divided into an upper, middle, and lower part. Origin.—First part, by two teeth from the middle of the outer surface of the first and second ribs, and from the fascia covering the first intercostal space. Second part, by two or three heads from the second, third, and sometimes the fourth ribs upon their outer surface. Third part, by far the largest and strongest portion of the muscle, arises from the fourth or fifth to the eighth or ninth ribs by a series of teeth, which are attached in front near the upper border of each rib, and behind to a line running backwards across the outer surface of the rib from its upper to its lower border. These attachments form a curved line with the con- vexity forwards, the attachment to the sixth rib being the most anterior and prominent.