385 INTER OSS EI phalanx of the little toe; (2) the outer part of the front of the under surface of the fifth metatarsal bone. Structure.—Arising tendinous, the fleshy fibres run forwards and a little out- wards to their short tendon of insertion, which is closely blended with that of the abductor minimi digiti. A few of the deeper fibres end in the metatarsal bone. Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar nerve by a branch which enters the under surface of the muscle. Action.—To flex and slightly abduct the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor longus cligitorum and abductor minimi digiti; deeply, the interossei of the outermost interspace. Variations.—The insertion upon the metatarsal bone may form a separate muscle, the opponeus digiti pedis quinti, or it may be entirely absent. Fourth Layer The fourth layer consists of the seven interosseous muscles. INTEROSSEI The interossei—named from their position between the metatarsal bones—are, like those of the hand, seven in number, three being plantar and four dorsal. The plantar are small and narrow fusiform bundles; the dorsal are bipenniform and of a somewhat broader fusiform shape than the plantar. The interossei of the foot differ from those of the hand in the fact that they adduct and abduct with respect to a longitudinal axis through the line of the second toe; whereas in the hand the median line passes through the middle finger. The plantar interossei.—Origin.—(1) The inner and lower surfaces of the three outer metatarsal bones; (2) the adjacent part of the sheath of the peroneus longus tendon. Insertion.—(1) The inner side of the bases of the first phalanges of the three outer toes; (2) the inner border of the expansions of the long extensor tendons on the back of the first phalanges of the same toes. The dorsal interossei arise from the adjacent surfaces of the metatarsal bones bounding each interosseous space. The first dorsal interosseous, however, differs somewhat in its internal head, which is from the base only of the first metatarsal bone and the adjacent outer surface of the internal cuneiform bone. Insertion.—The first dorsal interosseous is inserted into:—(1) the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the second toe; (2) the inner edge of the aponeurosis of the extensor tendon upon the back of the first phalanx. The second, third, and fourth are inserted respectively into:—(1) the outer sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the second, third, and fourth toes; (2) the outer borders of the extensor tendons upon the backs of the same phalanges. * Structure.—The plantar interossei are penniform muscles consisting of fleshy fibres which run forwards to the outer side of a tendon which begins about the middle of the space and becomes free opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones. The dorsal interossei are bipenniform, and consist of fleshy fibres which con- verge from both sides of the space upon a central tendon which begins about the middle of the interosseous space and becomes free opposite the heads of the meta- tarsal bones. The tendons of both sets of muscles before their insertion lie above the deep transverse metatarsal ligament which separates them from the tendons of the lumbricales. On the dorsum of the foot the dorsal interossei are alone visible; in the sole of the foot both sets are seen. Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar nerve by filaments which enter the plantar aspect of the muscles, somewhat behind the middle of the interosseous space. Action.—The common action of all the interossei is (1) to flex the first phalanges of the four outer toes; (2) to extend the second and third phalanges. In 25