THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 946 Actions.—(1) Tightens the soft palate; (2) opens the Eustachian tube during deglutition. The Azygos Uvulae—named because it was supposed to be a single muscle. Origin.—(1) From the aponeurosis of the soft palate; (2) the nasal spine of the palate bone. Insertion.—Into the uvula. Structure.—The muscle consists of two narrow parallel strips lying on each side of the middle line of the palate. Nerve-supply.—Probably from the same source as the levator palati. Action.—To draw up the uvula. The Mucous Membrane of the soft palate is continuous with that of the mouth on its anterior aspect, and with that of the nasal chamber on its posterior surface; its epithelium is columnar and ciliated in the vicinity of the Eustachian tube, but elsewhere it is squamous and not ciliated. The glands form an espe- cially thick layer on its superior aspect. Arterial supply of the soft palate.—(1) Ascending palatine of facial; (2) palatine branch of ascending pharyngeal; (3) twigs from descending palatine of internal maxillary, which enter the smaller palatine canals, and are distributed to the soft palate and tonsils, and communicate with the ascending palatine of the facial artery; (4) lingual artery, by twigs from the dorsal branch. Nerves to the soft palate.—(1) Branches from Meckel's ganglion ('small or posterior palatine' and 'external palatine nerve'); (2) tonsillitic branches of glosso-pharyngeal nerve; and (3) the nerves supplying the muscles. The TONSILS (figs. 507 and 560) are two bodies situated one in each of the recessesV between the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces and beneath a small fossa, the supra-tonsillar recess, which is the remains of the second visceral cleft. They are about an inch (20-25 mm.) in length, and half an inch (12-15 mm.) in width and thickness; but their size is liable to considerable variation. On their inner surfaces are a number of puncture-like openings (twelve to fifteen on each tonsil), which form the orifices of small recesses or crypts, into which numerous follicles open. The mucous membrane is continued into, and forms a lining for, these follicles; their walls are surrounded by an aggregation of closed capsules somewhat similar to the solitary glands of the intestine, and they contain a thick secretion. The tonsil corresponds in position with the angle of the jaw; it is in relation externally with the superior constrictor muscle, which separates it from the ascend- ing pharyngeal artery; about one inch externally and posteriorly to it is the internal carotid artery, and still more externally the internal pterygoid muscle. The arteries of the tonsil are five in number, viz.:—(1) Dorsalis linguae from the lingual; (2) ascending pharyngeal from the external carotid; (3) ascending palatine from the facial; (4) tonsillar from the facial; and (5) descending palatine from the internal maxillary. The veins of the tonsil form a plexus which lies upon the outer side of the gland, and opens externally into the pharyngeal plexus. The lymphatics of the tonsil communicate with those of the dorsum of the tongue, and they pass to a gland which lies near the angle of the jaw. The nerves of the tonsil are branches of the fifth and glosso-pharyngeal. THE SALIVARY GLANDS The three chief salivary glands are the parotid, the submaxillary (mandib- ular), and the sublingual. These all pour their secretions into the cavity of the mouth. The parotid gland is the largest of the salivary glands. It lies just below and in front of the ear, and it varies from a little over half an ounce to an ounce in weight.