720 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM hemisphere of the cerebellum. Mesially, it is marked by a sagittal groove or furrow, which usually lodges the basilar artery, but is in no way caused by the contact with the vessel. On each side of the groove a prominence is formed, where the sagittally-directed fibres of the pyramidal bodies pass brainwards, under cover of the transverse fibres of the pons. The superior border is convex forwards. Its fibres pass directly into the upper border of the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The inferior border is marked off by a distinct transverse groove from the medulla. It is formed in its inner part by the lowest fibres of the pons, but these are crossed near the junction of pons and middle peduncle by the oblique fasciculus. The oblique fasciculus is formed by the middle transverse fibres of the pons, which pass downwards and backwards, internal to the exit of the trigeminal nerve, on each side, and cross the inferior fibres on their superficial aspect. Coronal sections through the pons (fig. 429) show that it comprises two very distinct regions—an anterior or ventral region and a dorsal region, which is called tegmental, as most of its constituents are continued into the tegmentum of the mesencephalon. The ventral region consists of transverse and longitudinal fibres, interspersed with small aggregations of grey matter. The transverse fibres are:— (a) Fibres which pass from the middle peduncle to the opposite side, where they turn upwards to the brain or downwards to the cord; (b) fibres which emerge from the cerebellum by the middle peduncles, and terminate in connection with the nuclei of the pons on the same side. The longitudinal fibres are the upward continuation of the pyramids. They pass upwards in flattened bundles, separated from one another by some of the transverse fibres of the pons. In the upper or tegmental region the chief things to be observed are: the tract of the fillet (which lies next to the ventral region), the formatio reticularis, the posterior longitudinal bundle, the substantia ferruginea, and the funiculus teres. The superior olivary nucleus, the nuclei of the sixth and seventh cranial nerves, the motor nucleus of the trigeminal, with parts of the ascending and descending roots of the last-named nerve and portions of the nucleus of the auditory nerve, are embedded in this region of the pons (figs. 429 and 430). The dorsal and ventral parts of the pons are separated by a transverse layer of fibres called the trapezium or corpus trapezoides (fig. 430), because in some mammals it appears on the ventral surface of the pons in a quadrilateral area between the bundles of the pyramidal fibres of the two sides. It consists of fibres crossing from side to side through the raphe many of which, derived from the accessory auditory nucleus, pass through the trapezium to the lateral fillet of the opposite side and by it are conveyed to the lower quadrigeminate body. Some of the structures mentioned in the preceding paragraph are visible to the unaided eye in ordinary dissecting-room specimens. The nuclei of the cranial nerves will not be further described here, as a full account of them will be given in the sectioD on the cranial nerves. The Metencephalon The MEDULLA OBLONGATA, or bulb, is the portion of the cerebro-spinal axis which extends from the inferior border of the pons to the decussation of the pyramids. It presents an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces. The anterior surface rests upon the basilar groove of the occipital bone, and extends downwards as far as the point where the odontoid process is crossed by the trans- verse ligament of the atlas (Testut). The bulb has the form of a truncated cone, the base of which is continued into the pons above, while the truncated apex is prolonged into the spinal cord below. The posterior surface is received into the vallecula, between the cerebellar hemispheres, and forms, by its upper part, as already described, the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The ninth to the twelfth nerves (with the exception of the spinal part of the spinal accessory) take their superficial origin from its sides. The sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves appear in the transverse groove between the medulla and the pons in numerical order from within outwards. The ventricular part of the medulla has been already described; but on the