THE ARTERIES 584 forating. The termination of the artery is sometimes called the fourth perforating branch. (a) The external circumflex, a short trunk, but the largest in diameter of the branches of the artery, arises from the outer side of the profunda as it lies on the iliacus muscle, about three-quarters of an inch (2 cm.) below the origin of that vessel from the femoral. It passes transversely outwards over the iliacus, under the sartorius and rectus, and between the branches of the anterior crural nerve. In this course it gives off branches to the rectus and crureus, and then divides into three chief sets of branches—an ascending, transverse, and descending. (i) The ascending branch, consisting of one or more separate vessels, runs upwards beneath the sartorius; then, sinking deeply beneath the tensor fasciae femoris on the outer side, and the gluteus medius and minimus on the inner side, anastomoses with the superior gluteal and the deep circumflex iliac arteries. This branch also supplies a twig which runs upwards under the rectus to the hip-joint. (ii) The transverse branch, or branches, run transversely outwards, and, winding over the crureus and piercing the vastus externus, anastomose towards the back of the thigh with the superior perforating branch of the profunda, the sciatic, and internal circumflex arteries. These branches will usually be found a little below the great trochanter. (iii) The descending branches run directly downwards along with the nerve to the vastus externus muscle. They lie beneath the rectus muscle and on the crureus or vastus externus, some of them being just under cover of the anterior edge of the latter muscle. They are distributed to the vastus externus, crureus, and rectus, one branch usually running along the anterior border of the vastus externus as far as the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the superior external articular branch of the popliteal (fig. 376); another, entering the crureus, anasto- moses with the lower perforating branch of the profunda and with the anastomotica magna. Variations of the external circumflex.—(A) It may come off from the femoral above the profunda. (B) It may be double, one branch coming off from the femoral, and one from the profunda, or both from the profunda, or both from the femoral above the profunda. (6) The internal circumflex artery comes off from the back and inner part of the profunda artery on about the same level as the external circumflex; sometimes as a common trunk with that vessel. As it winds round the inner side of the femur to reach the region of the trochanters, it lies successively, first, between the psoas and pectineus, then between the obturator externus and adductor brevis; finally, between the adductor magnus and quadratus femoris, where it anastomoses with the external circumflex externally, with the sciatic above, and with the superior perforating below, forming the so-called crucial anastomosis. As it passes between the obturator externus and adductor brevis, it gives off two or more branches to the adductor longus, the adductor brevis, the gracilis, and the obturator externus, and anastomoses with the obturator artery. Another small branch usually courses upwards and outwards beneath the tendon of the psoas, and enters the hip-joint beneath the transverse ligament, and, together with the articular branch of the obturator, supplies the fatty tissue in the acetabulum, and sends branches to the synovial membrane. As it lies beneath the adductor brevis, it gives off a descending branch to the adductor magnus and brevis. This branch is generally accompanied by the posterior division of the obturator nerve. Before passing between the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus, a small branch runs upwards beneath the quadratus femoris to supply the back of the hip-joint, and anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries. Its companion veins join the profunda vein. Variations of the internal circumflex.—(A) It may come off from the profunda artery before the external circumflex. (B) It may arise from the femoral artery ; or (C) from the external iliac or one of its branches. (c) The perforating arteries of the profunda are so called because they per- forate, in a more or less regular manner from above downwards, certain of the