710 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM wards until the quadrigeminal bodies and the lateral parts of the crura cerebri are fully exposed. The valve of Vieussens and the slender pair of fourth nerves which spring from its upper part are very liable to injury at this stage. In conducting this dissection, the student will notice a pair of broad white bands, the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, converging towards the lower pair of quadrigeminal bodies, and a thin white lamina, the valve of Vieussens, filling the inter- space between them. The mesencephalon is now fully exposed, and its free surface should first be examined. Directions will be subsequently given for the examination of its internal structure. The Mesencephalon The aqueduct of Sylvius is a narrow passage, a little more than half an inch long, which unites the cavities of the third and fourth ventricles: hence it is sometimes called iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. It is roofed by a plate of grey matter, the lamina quadrigemina, which is surmounted by two pairs of elevations, the corpora quadrigemina. Its floor is formed by the tegmenta of the crura cerebri. Its outline in transverse section varies in different parts of its course. Thus, at its commencement, under the posterior commissure, it has the form of an isosceles triangle with the apex directed downwards. Below the anterior quadrigeminal bodies it is heart-shaped, then somewhat shield-shaped. Lower down, on the level of the posterior corpora quadrigemina, it has the form of an ovate leaf with the stalk directed downwards; and finally, at its junction with the fourth ventricle, it is T-shaped in section (fig. 444). The grey matter of the aqueduct is a thick stratum which surrounds that canal, and is con- tinuous with the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is bounded below by the formatio reticularis, and by the posterior longitudinal bundle (fig. 424). It is continuous above with the grey matter of the lamina quadrigemina. Groups of cells are embedded in this grey substance ; the most important of these is a long column of nerve-cells which is placed near the middle line beneath the aqueduct close to the formatio reticularis (fig. 424). This is the con- tinuous nucleus of the third and fourth nerves. It commences near the junction of the third ventricle and the aqueduct, and extends for nearly the whole length of the latter. It is on a line with the nuclei of two nerves (sixth and twelfth) which arise from the floor of the fourth ventricle. The nucleus of the descending root of the fifth nerve is a group of cells in the region of the upper quadrigeminal bodies, situated above and external to the nucleus of the third nerve ; it is limited on its outer side by the white fibres of the nerve-root itself. The formatio reticularis will be described with the anatomy of the medulla and pons. The CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA are four greyish elevations which surmount the lamina quadrigemina. The superior or anterior pair are termed the nates ; the inferior or posterior pair, the testes. The corpora quadrigemina are marked off by a cruciform groove, the transverse limb of which is the more distinct. The portion of the vertical groove which lies between the nates is also well marked, but the groove between the testes is shallow and is obscured by a rounded bundle of fibres, the frenulum veli, which passes downwards and spreads out on the valve of Vieussens, immediately below the testes. The corpora quadrigemina consist of grey matter overlaid by a thin superficial stratum of white fibres. The nates are broader and darker in colour than the testes, and form a pair of ovoid elevations with their long axes directed upwards and outwards; this direction is continued into the corresponding brachia. The brachia of the nates, or superior brachia., are slightly-raised white bands which pass on each side from the nates in the intervals between the pulvinar of the optic thalami and the corpora geniculate interna. They are sharply marked off from the latter, but less distinctly from the thalami. Each brachium is continued below the corpus geniculatum externum of its own side directly into the optic tract. The testes are lighter in colour, and form more pronounced elevations than the nates. Each testis is a somewhat pear-shaped body, the narrow end of which is continued into the brachium of its own side. The brachia of the testes, or inferior brachia, are narrower and more promi- nent than the brachia of the nates, and run parallel to the latter. Each brachium passes below the corpus geniculatum internum of its own side and disappears from i the surface. _ I The corpus geniculatum internum is an oval elevation which is placed behind