POPLITEUS 371 Nerve-supply.—From the internal popliteal branch of the great sciatic nerve, which sends sural branches to the adjacent portions of the anterior surfaces of the two heads, in the upper third of the leg. Action.—Its action will be described with that of the soleus, which forms a part of the same muscle. Relations.—Behind, the deep fascia, the external saphenous vein and nerve, and the communicans peronei nerve. Between the two heads above is the plantaris muscle. In front lie the knee-joint, the tendon of the semi-membranosus, the pop- liteus, the plantaris tendon, the soleus, the popliteal vessels, and internal popliteal nerve. On the outer side, above, are the biceps tendon, and external popliteal nerve; on the inner side, above, are the tendons of the semi-tendinosus, gracilis, sartorius, and adductor magnus. A bursa lying beneath its inner head separates it from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, and communicates with the knee-joint. Variations.—The most common variation is the addition of a third head from the posterior surface of the lower end of the femur. This may cross, or even run between, the popliteal vessels. 2. PLANTARIS The plantaris—named from its occasional attachment to the fascia covering the sole of the foot ( =planta)—is a fusiform, somewhat flattened muscle with a very long ribbon-shaped tendon. Origin.—(1) The lower two inches (5 cm.) of the outer condylar ridge together with the posterior surface of the femur immediately below that ridge; and (2) the adjacent part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. Insertion.—The inner side of the lower portion of the posterior surface of the calcaneum; sometimes, however, it blends with the inner border of the tendo Achillis, and sometimes it is continued into the inner division of the plantar fascia. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the fibres of this small muscle have a somewhat penniform arrangement and converge upon the thin tendon, which appears first on the inner side of the muscle, and soon becoming free, runs downwards and slightly inwards across the calf between the gastrocnemius and the soleus. In the lower third of the leg it lies along the inner border of the tendo Achillis, with which it is .sometimes blended. Nerve-supply.—From the internal popliteal branch of the great sciatic nerve by a small filament which enters the deep aspect of the muscle near the upper part •of its inner border. Action.—This vestigial muscle is a feeble extensor of the ankle and a flexor of the knee-joint. By its attachment to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint it will tend to draw backwards that ligament during flexion of the knee, and so prevent its being caught between the articular surfaces. Relations.—Behind lie the fascia of the popliteal space, the biceps, the gastroc- nemius, and the external popliteal nerve; in front are the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal nerve, the popliteus muscle and the soleus. Variations.—In addition to the above-mentioned variations in the point of insertion, this muscle may sometimes be double at its origin, and it is not uufrequently absent. Second Layer The second layer is formed above by the popliteus, which is covered behind by the aponeurosis derived from the semi-membranosus; and below by the soleus, which is the lower head of the great triceps surae muscle. 1. POPLITEUS The popliteus (fig. 292)—named from its position on the floor of the ham {=poples)—is a triangular sheet. Origin.—The bottom of the anterior portion of a horizontal groove on the lower