THE MUSCLES 454 Insertion.—(1) The superficial muscular stratum which covers the side and adjacent part of the under surface of the tongue; (2) it is partly continuous with the deep transverse lingualis muscle. Structure.—Arising in a thin muscular sheet, its fibres form as they pass out- wards a small cylindrical bundle which, lying in front of the tonsil and against the wall of the pharynx, constitutes the anterior pillar of the fauces. This bundle runs downwards and forwards till it reaches the side of the tongue at the junction of its middle and posterior thirds. Here some of the fibres pass forwards and downwards to join the superficial stratum formed by the stylo-glossus and hyo- glossus. The rest pass inwards towards the middle line, being continued into the deep transverse lingualis muscle. This part of the two muscles, together with the associated portion of the lingualis transversus, forms a sphincter muscle round the front part of the faucial opening. Nerve-supply.—Filaments from the pharyngeal plexus. Action.—(1) To draw downwards the sides of the soft palate; (2) to draw upwards and backwards the sides of the tongue. The combination of these two actions closes the front part of the faucial opening, as in the second part of swallowing, when the back of the tongue comes into contact with the soft palate, and prevents the return of the food which is being grasped by the constrictors. It should be remembered, however, that the elevation of the tongue is chiefly due to the muscles which raise the hyoid bone. Relations.—Superficially, it is covered by the mucous membrane of the soft palate and the side of the tongue; deeply', it is in contact with the aponeurosis of the soft palate, the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and the hyo-glossus; behind it lies the tonsil. For Muscles of the Palate see page 944. For Muscles of the Pharynx see pages 950-952. THE DEEP MUSCLES OF THE FRONT OF THE NECK The deep muscles of the front of the neck consist of an inner and an outer group, separated from one another by the line of the anterior tubercles of the cervical vertebras. Both groups are covered in front by the prevertebral fascia. Outer Group The outer group is formed by the three scaleni, which pass from the first two ribs upwards and inwards to the transverse processes. 1. SCALENUS ANTICUS The scalenus anticus—named from its shape (scalenus — of unequal sides, being a term applied to certain triangles in geometry) and its relation to its fellows —is a thick triangular sheet- Origin.—The scalene tubercle near the inner border of the upper surface of the first rib. Insertion.—The anterior tubercles of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras. Structure.—Arising by a short, somewhat flattened tendon, which is continued upAvards for a short distance upon the front and outer surface of the muscle, the fleshy fibres diverge as they pass upwards and slightly backwards and inwards to be inserted by four short tendons into the transverse processes. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior primary branches of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical nerves close to their points of emergence. Action.—(1) The rib being fixed, it will help to flex the neck both forwards