830 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM On the left side the nerve is conducted into the thorax in front of the common carotid artery, and crosses in front (or rather to the left side) of the so-called transverse part of the arch of the aorta in the interval between the trunk of the vagus and its inferior cervical cardiac branch, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. Middle Cervical Ganglion The middle cervical ganglion is a small, somewhat triangular, ganglionic thickening of the cord of the sympathetic. It is situated at the point where the cord crosses the inferior thyroid artery at the level of the sixth cervical vertebra. It gives grey rami communicantes to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It is connected below to the inferior cervical ganglion by the main cord of the sympa- thetic, which passes behind the subclavian artery, and by one or more nerve-cords which pass in front of that vessel, forming the ansa Vieussenii. The middle cervical ganglion gives off branches to the thyroid body and the middle cardiac nerve. The branches to the thyroid body communicate with the superior cardiac nerve, and proceed to the gland, following the branches of the inferior thyroid artery. The middle cardiac nerve enters, the thorax, passing sometimes in front of the subclavian artery, and sometimes behind that vessel. It communicates in the neck with the upper cardiac nerve, and in the thorax with the recurrent laryngeal. It terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side this nerve passes down between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. Inferior Cervical Ganglion The inferior cervical ganglion is larger than the middle ganglion, and is con- nected by short grey rami communicantes to the seventh and eighth cervical nerves. It is irregular in form and is deeply placed, being lodged in a depression between the neck of the first rib and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. In this situation it is concealed by the vertebral artery, the vessel being placed in front of the ganglion. It is united to the first thoracic ganglion by one or two stout cords and often by a band of ganglionic substance. It gives off branches to the vertebral artery and the inferior cardiac nerve. The branches to the vertebral artery are of considerable size and accompany the vessel into the arterio-vertebral foramina in the transverse processes. The plexus thus formed is continued on the vertebral and basilar to the cerebral arteries. The inferior cardiac nerve communicates with the middle cardiac and recurrent laryngeal, and passes along the side of the trachea to join the deep cardiac plexus. It occasionally arises from the first dorsal ganglion. The majority, if not all, of the medullated fibres of the cervical part of the sympathetic cord enter it from the dorsal part, to which they pass by the white rami from the upper dorsal nerves. The destination of many of these fibres is unknown, but some terminate in ramifications round the cells of the upper cervical ganglion and others in a similar manner round the cells of the middle and lower ganglia. The fibres which terminate in the upper ganglion are the vaso-motor fibres of the head, the secretory fibres of the submaxillary glands, the dilator fibres of the pupil, the motor fibres for the smooth muscle of the eyelids and orbit, and the pilo-motor fibres (to the muscles of the hairs) of the face and neck. Those which terminate in the middle and lower cervical ganglia are the cardiac accelerator fibres, and possibly some of the secretory fibres of the sweat glands of the upper extremity. THORACIC PORTION OF THE GANGLIATED CORD The thoracic portion of the gangliated cord is represented by a chain of twelve pairs of ganglia. In a few cases, on account of the coalescence of some of the members of the series, the number may be reduced to eleven or ten pairs. The