FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI 343 Structure.—Arising by short tendinous or fleshy fibres, the muscle converges upon a short tendon, which blends on its outer side with the inner tendon of the flexor brevis pollicis, and sends a fibrous slip to the inner side of the aponeurosis of the extensor longus pollicis. Nerve-supply.—From the lower cord of the brachial plexus (through the eighth cervical nerve), by the deep branch of the ulnar which sends filaments to the upper border and deep surface near the origin. Action.—(1) To flex the first phalanx of the thumb; (2) to adduct and flex the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb; (3) to extend the second phalanx of the thumb. This latter action of the adductor and abductor pollicis is useful in many of the movements of the thumb, in which it will be found that the second phalanx has to be kept extended, while its palmar aspect is being opposed to the tips of the other digits. Relations.—Superficially, some of the tendons of the flexor profundus digi- torum and the two outer lumbricales; deeply, the abductor indicis and the inter- ossei of the space between the second and third metacarpal bones. Part of the lower border is subcutaneous. Variations.—The adductor pollicis is often difficult to separate from the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. Muscles of the Hypothenar Eminence These are three in number—the abductor minimi digiti, the opponens minimi digiti, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. They lie under cover of the thin internal division of the palmar fascia. 1. ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI The abductor minimi digiti—named from its action—is fusiform and some- what flattened. Origin.—(1) The lower half of the pisiform bone; (2) the continuation of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris below this bone. Insertion.—(1) The ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger; and (2) the adjacent portion of the aponeurosis of the extensor minimi digiti. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, it soon forms a flat fleshy mass which contracts slightly below, and just before its insertion having again become tendinous, it is for the most part attached to the first phalanx, but it also sends a small slip backwards to the extensor aponeurosis. Nerve-supply.—From the ulnar nerve through the eighth cervical nerve. It receives small filaments at the outer and deep aspect, usually from the deep palmar division of the ulnar nerve. Action.—-To abduct, and at the same time flex, the metacarpophalangeal joint of the little finger; it will also assist, like an interosseous muscle, in the extension of the second and third phalanges. Relations.—Superficially, the hypothenar part of the palmar fascia and the palmaris brevis; deeply, the flexor brevis and opponens minimi digiti. Upon its radial border are placed the deep palmar branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. 2. FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI The flexor brevis minimi digiti—named from its action—is small and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The ulnar surface of the hook of the unciform bone; (2) the adjacent part of the front of the anterior annular ligament. Insertion.—The ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Structure.—Its origin and insertion are by short tendinous fibres, and the rest of the muscle is fleshy.