519 SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL before the latter enters the thorax. It-passes directly backwards, first between the seventh and eighth cervical nerves, and then between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, having the body of the seventh cervical vertebra to its inner side, and the intertransverse muscle to its outer side. It then turns upwards in the groove between the transverse and spinous processes of the cervical vertebras lying upon the semispinalis colli. It is covered by the complexus. Between these muscles, near the axis, it anastomoses with the deep branch of the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery. The deep cervical is homol- ogous in its course to the posterior branch of an aortic intercostal, being morpho- logically the posterior branch of the intercostal artery for the seventh cervical space. It gives off the following small branches:—(a) Muscular, to the semispinalis colli and complexus; (6) anastomotic, which anastomose with branches of the verte- bral, ascending cervical and princeps cervicis arteries; and (c) vertebral or spinal, Fig. 345.—Scheme of the Right Superior Intercostal Artery. (Walsham.) which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen with the eighth cervical nerve. (2 ) The first intercostal branch runs forwards in the first intercostal space, and, like the second intercostal branch, which, when present, runs to the second space on the right side, resembles in its course and distribution the succeeding intercostals derived from the aorta. (See Branches of Thoracic Aorta. ) (3) The arteria aberrans, when present, comes off from the inner side of the right superior intercostal, and occasionally from the right subclavian itself. (See page 506.) It descends as a delicate vessel into the thorax, passing backwards and inwards behind the oesophagus as far as the third or fourth thoracic vertebra, where in some cases it is found to anastomose with a similar delicate branch com- ing off from the aorta below the ductus arteriosus. This anastomosis, which repre- sents the remains of the right dorsal aortic stem, may become enlarged, and the subclavian artery on the right side be derived from the arch of the aorta. This accounts for the subclavian in such circumstances passing behind the oesophagus. (See Variations of the Arch of the Aorta. )