ORGANS OF SPECIAL SEXSE 89G The nerves.—The olfactory or special nerves of smell, the filaments of which pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, lie for some distance in the grooves of the bony walls before terminating in the Schneiderian membrane. Those which supply the septum ramify in its upper third, whilst those which reach the outer walls are distributed in two groups—a posterior, to supply the membrane covering the superior turbinal bone, and an anterior, to ramify in the membrane over the middle turbinal bone and the smooth surface of the ethmoid in front of this. In addition to the special nerves of smell, the cavity is supplied with nerves of common sensation derived from the fifth pair. The nasal branch of the ophthalmic supplies the front and upper part of the septum, the anterior part of the roof and also the anterior part of outer wall of the nasal fossa. The Vidian, with the upper nasal branches of Meckel's ganglion, supply Fig. 520.—Nerves of the Nasal Cavity. FRONTAL SINUS OLFACTORY NERVE nl.FACTORY NERVE TO SUPERIOR TUR- BINA TE BONE SPHENOIDAL SINUS VIDIAN NERVE MECKEL'S GANGLION DESCENDING PALATINE ORIFICE OF EUSTACHIAN TUBE - NASAL BRANCHES _ POSTERIOR PALATINE . ANTERIOR PALATINE MIDDLE PA LA TINE the upper and back portion of the septum, the roof, and the outer wall, including the superior spongy bone. The naso-palatine supplies the lower and posterior portion of the septum. The anterior dental branch of the maxillary division of the fifth nerve is distributed to the anterior part of the inferior meatus and inferior turbinal bone. The anterior or large palatine nerve supplies in its course downwards the posterior part of the middle and lower turbinal bones. The arteries are distributed as follows:— The spheno-palatine, from the internal maxillary by its internal or naso- palatine branch, supplies the septum as it courses downwards and forwards in the groove on the vomer to the incisor foramen. Its external branches supply the antrum (also supplied by the alveolar branch of the facial) and frontal sinus, the ethmoidal cells, and inner surfaces of the turbinal bones with the meatuses. It enters the cavity through the spheno-palatine foramen.