458 ABNORMAL MUSCLES By J. BLAND SUTTON, F.R.C.S. ASSISTANT SURGEON TO THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL, AND SURGEON TO THE CHELSEA HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN Revised and Added to by ARTHUR ROBINSON, M.D., Lecturer on Anatomy at the Middlesex Hospital The abductor ossis metatarsi quinti arises from the outer tubercle of the calcaneuru. It is inserted into the tuberosity at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The origin and insertion are marked in fig. 167. It is present in two out of every three subjects, and when not represented by muscle fibres its place is occupied by a band of fibrous tissue. Agitator caudae is a small slip of muscles which arises from the last piece of the sacrum or from the side of the coccyx. It is inserted into the femur below the gluteus maximus. Amygdalo-glossus.—A small muscle which arises from the side of the tongue and is inserted into the outer surface of the tonsil. The anomalus arises from the nasal process of the maxilla, beneath the levator labii superioris alceque nasi. It is inserted into the maxilla close to the origin of the compressor naris. The atlanto-mastoid arises from the transverse process of the atlas, between the superior oblique and the rectus capitis lateralis. It is inserted into the posterior part of the mastoid process. Azygos pharyngis.—This muscle arises from the pharyngeal tubercle on the under surface of the body of the occipital bone. It is inserted into the raphe of the pharyex superficial to the insertion of the superior and middle constrictor muscles. It may blend with the ascending fibres of the middle constrictor. It is often represented by a fibrous band. [For figure, see Macalister, Proc. Royal Irish Academy, vol. ix. ] The chondro-epitrochlearis arises from the cartilages of one or two ribs (usually the seventh), or from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. It is inserted' into the fascia on the inner side of the arm, or into the intermuscular septum, and sometimes into the internal condyle of the humerus. [For figure, see Perrin, Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. v. plate ix.] The cleido-hyoid arises from the clavicle near the outer border of the sterno-hyoid. It is inserted into the body of the hyoid superficial to the sterno-hyoid. The cleido-occipitalis arises from the clavicle posterior to the sterno-mastoid and anterior or external to the cleido-mastoid. It runs upwards parallel with the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid to be inserted into the superior nuchal line of the occipital bone anterior to the origin of the trapezius. [Perrin ; a good figure in Jonrn. of Anat. and Pltys. vol. v. p. 253.] The costo-coracoideus arises from one or more ribs, between the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi, and is inserted into the coracoid process. The costo-fascialis is a muscular slip given off from the outer border of the sterno-thyroid near its origin. It is inserted into the sheath of the carotid vessels, and sometimes reaches as high as the level of the thyroid cartilage. The curvator coccygis arises from the anterior surface of the fifth piece of the sacrum. It is inserted into the anterior surface of the coccyx. [For figure, see M. Watson, Jonrn. of Ana t. and Phys. vol. xiv. p. 407.] The depressor thyroideae arises from the lower border of the first ring of the trachea quite close to the middle line. It passes vertically upwards to be inserted into the lower border of the thyroid cartilage inter- nal to the crico-thyroid. [The muscle is figured by Messenger Bradley in Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. vi. p. 420.] The dorso-epitrochlearis is a muscular slip given off by the tendon of the latissimus dorsi at the axilla. Sometimes it is directly continuous with a chondro-epitrochlearis muscle. It is inserted into the long head of the triceps, or into the fascia of the arm, and sometimes into the internal intermuscular septum. [For figure, see Perrin, Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. v. plate x.] The epitrochleo-anconeus is a small muscle arising from the back of the internal condyle of the humerus, and passing over the ulnar nerve is inserted into the inner side of the olecranon.