SPERMATIC CORD—THE PENIS 1031 2. The spermatic artery. 3. The spermatic veins, or pampiniform plexus, surrounding the artery. 4. Lymphatics running with the veins. 5. Sympathetic nerves accompanying the artery. 6. The processus vaginalis, occasionally seen as a thread-like relic of the tube of communication between the tunica vaginalis and peritoneum. It is fre- quently patent for a short distance near the internal inguinal ring, and probably accounts in great part for the insidious development of hernial protrusions in this region. Fig. 626.—Section of the Spermatic Coed. (After Henle.) / ■ "[ 11 As Internal cremaster — Mucous membrane — Internal muscular coat - Middle muscular coat ■^§r External muscular coat Internal cremaster Deferential vessels 7. The internal cremaster of Henle. Scattered bundles of smooth muscular fibres, said to represent the inverted lateral bands of the gubernaculum testis. 8. Fat and connective tissue, continuous above with the subperitoneal planes of fascia. Inguinal or scrotal lipomata or fibromata may take origin from these elements and may simulate true hernias. In the scrotum these various structures are invested by coverings identical with those of the testicle. THE PENIS The penis is composed of three rod-like segments of erectile tissue, firmly united together and invested by a sheath composed of integument, dartos, and fascia (fig. 627). Of these three erectile segments, two, the corpora cavernosa, are placed side by side above or dorsally; the third, the corpus spongiosum, is perforated in the whole length by the urethral canal, and lies on the ventral aspect of the former, except where it expands distally to form the free end of the organ ( fig. 628). The penis as a whole may be divided into a root, a body, and a terminal enlargement or glans; the root is attached to the symphysis and pubic arch; the body, prismatic, with rounded angles in section, forms the greater part of the free portion of the organ; and the glans is a heart-shaped expansion, more developed on its dorsal than on its ventral aspect, and presenting the urethral orifice at its distal extremity. The body and glans are separated by a constriction called the neck. The coverings of the penis are continuous with those of the testicle. The skin, like that of the scrotum, is pigmented and highly elastic, and unlike the skin