THE MUSCLES 286 would thus obtain a considerable mechanical advantage. This extreme obliquity, however, actually places the muscle in a condition of mechanical disadvantage. Lastly, the biceps and brachialis anticus are both of them good examples of the third order of lever, when they act by their insertion close to the fulcrum of the elbow to flex the forearm, the centre of gravity of which is much farther from the joint. The direction of the tendon at its point of insertion is of great importance in estimating the effect of the contraction of any muscle. It is rarely perpendicular to its lever. There is, therefore, in nearly every case, a considerable loss of mechanical advantage; but it should be remembered that this is more than counterbalanced by important gains. In the first place, the range and rapidity of movement are greatly increased for a given contraction of the muscle; and in the second place a power is also produced by which the articular ends of the bones connected by the muscle are pressed together, so that the tendency to dislocation of the joint is diminished. A third advantage is the compactness given to the limb by the tendons being placed in close apposition to the bones, an object which could not be attained unless their insertions were very oblique. Take the case of the brachio-radialis flexing the forearm. In the adjoining diagram let E be the elbow, B E the humerus, E R the radius, and B R the line of the brachio-radialis. To estimate how much of the contracting force of the muscle is actually expended in flexing the forearm, all that is necessary is to take any point K in B R, to draw K A perpendicular to E R, and form a rectangle R A K C, on R A. If the force of the muscle acting along R B be represented by the line R K, then R C will represent that portion of the force which tends to flex the elbow, and R A the portion which is devoted to compression of the head of the radius against the capitellum of the humerus, so as to strengthen the elbow-joint. Again, let E R' be the new position of the forearm after the brachio-radialis has contracted. The arc of the circle through which it has moved will be indicated by R R', a small arc drawn with radius R E, and centre E. Now join R' to B, and draw another small arc R' D with centre B and radius R' B. R D being the differ- ence between B R and B R', will indicate the amount by which the length of the muscle has diminished during its contraction, and R R' will represent the space through which the lower end of the radius has moved. A comparison of the lengths of R D and R R' will show how great has been the gain in range of move- ment by the oblique insertion of B R. If the muscle had been inserted at right angles to E R, it would, in order to produce the same effect, have had to contract through a space equal in length to R R'. With its oblique insertion a contrac- tion equal in length to R D has sufficed. The gain in range (and therefore in rapidity of movement, for by contracting through the short distance it causes a simultaneous motion through the longer space) may be roughly represented by the fraction ~. In muscles in which the insertion of the tendon is at a very small angle, the loss of power is proportionately greater, and the gain in speed and range enormous. As instances of this may be mentioned the insertions of the tendons of the phalanges, which produce the comparatively feeble, but exceedingly nimble, movements of the fingers with a very small contraction of the forearm muscles. In speaking of the direction of the muscles, it should clearly be understood that Fig. 260. B