SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1180 THE BUTTOCKS Bony landmarks.—The finger readily traces the whole outline of the iliac crest. Behind, it terminates in the posterior superior spine, which corresponds in level to the second sacral spine and the centre of the sacro-iliac joint (Holden). The third sacral spine marks the lowest limit of the spinal membranes and the cerebro-spinal fluid; it also corresponds to the upper border of the great sacro- sciatic notch. The first piece of the coccyx corresponds to the spine of the ischium ("Windle). Its apex is in the furrow just behind the last piece of the rectum. Fig. 746.—Position and Direction of the Superficial Incisions which must be made in order to reach the gluteal, sciatic, and pudic arteries. A.B. Ilio-trochanteric line divided into thirds, and corresponding in direction with the line of the glutens maximus. The incision to reach the gluteus maximus is indicated by the dark part of the line. Its centre is at the position of the upper and middle thirds of the ilio-trochanteric line, and corresponds with the point, of emergence of the artery from the great sciatic notch. A.C. Ilio-ischiatic line. The incision to reach the sciatic or pudic artery is indicated by the lower dark line. This is also to be made in the direction of the fibre of the gluteus maximus. Its centre corresponds to the position of the lower and middle thirds of the ilio-ischiatic line. l) POSTERIOR SUPERIOR ILIAC SPINE ,C) TUBEROSITY OF ISCHIUM The tuberosities of the ischium are readily felt by deep pressure on either side of the anus. In the erect position they are covered by the lower margin of the gluteus maximus. In sitting they are protected by tough skin, fascias, with coarse fibrous fat, and often by a bursa known, according to the patients in whom it becomes enlarged, as 'weaver's, coachman's, lighterman's, divayman's' bursa. Gluteus maximus.—The 'fold of the buttock' neither corresponds accurately to, nor is caused by, the lower margin of this muscle. It is really due to creasing of the skin adherent here to the coarsely fibro-fatty tissue over the tuber ischii during extension. But in early hip disease, in which flexion of the joint is almost unvaryingly present, both the fold and the gluteus maximus disappear with char- acteristic rapidity. The prominence of the buttock is mainly due to the gluteus