THE LYMPHATICS 660 3. The cervical portion of the thoracic duct ascends as high as the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, and then curves, downwards and forwards, over the apex of the pleura in front of the subclavian artery, scalenus anticus muscle, and vertebral vein, behind the left internal jugular vein, and behind and subsequently external to the left common carotid artery, and, having received the left jugular lymphatic trunk, opens into the left innominate vein at the confluence of the inter- nal jugular and subclavian veins. The cervical portion receives the lymphatics from the left upper extremity and left side of the head and neck. The chief variations in the thoracic duct.—(1) The thoracic duct may be double ; when this is the case, the left duct may end normally in the left innominate vein, and the right in the corresponding situation on the right side ; or the two ducts may unite at the root of the neck, and open into the left innominate vein. (2) The reduplication may be incomplete. Thus: (a) The duct may at first be single, but divide into two separate vessels at a variable distance from its termination, and then (i) one branch of the duct may enter the left confluence of veins at the root of the neck; the other the right confluence, a normal condition in some animals; or one may enter the confluence of veins in the normal manner, the other either the subclavian or inter- nal jugular vein ; or (ii) the two branches may reunite—this is a frequent variety, and is regarded as a normal condition by some anatomists, (b) It may break up into several branches in its course through the thorax, forming a plexus of vessels, which subsequently reunite into a single duct. (3) The thoracic duct may lie altogether to the left side of the aorta, and terminate as normal. (4) The duct may open into the confluence of the subclavian and internal jugular veins on the right side, an abnormal arrangement which may occur under the following conditions :— (a) when the viscera are transposed ; (b) when there is a right aortic arch without transposition of viscera; and (c) when the vessels and viscera are normal. (5) The duct may end in the vena azygos major. THE LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS The lymphatics of the abdomen and pelvis may be divided into the parietal, which ramify in the abdominal and pelvic walls; and the visceral, which receive the lymph from the pelvic viscera, and the lymph and chyle from the abdominal viscera. I. THE PARIETAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 1. The parietal lymphatic vessels may be subdivided into the superficial, which ramify beneath the skin in the subcutaneous tissue, and include the lymphatics of the skin of the penis and scrotum and of the external genital organs in the female; and into the deep, which accompany the deep arteries of the abdominal and pelvic walls. The former for the most part end in the superficial inguinal glands; the latter in the lumbar glands. (1) The superficial parietal lymphatics.—The superficial parietal lymphatics of the abdominal walls are situated between the skin and the abdominal muscles. Those from the front of the abdomen, below the level of the umbilicus, pass down- wards along the course of the superficial epigastric artery and veins, and end in the superficial inguinal glands. The lymphatics from the upper part of the front of the abdomen, above the level of tlie umbilicus, pass upwards and outwards witH the lymphatics from the front and side of the chest to the axillary glands. The lymphatics from the lateral abdominal Avails run, in part over the crest of the ilium, in the course of the superficial circumflex iliac artery and veins, into the outer superficial inguinal glands, and in part follow the course of the lumbar and ilio-lumbar arteries, and, after perforating the abdominal muscles, end in the lateral lumbar glands. The superficial lymphatics from the lower part of the back and from the gluteal region for the most part pass outwards over the gluteal muscles to end in the outermost superficial inguinal glands; but those from the region of