516 THE ARTERIES (1) The posterior scapular—the apparent continuation of the transverse cervical artery—begins at the outer border of the levator anguli scapulae, and, continuing its course beneath this muscle to the upper and posterior angle of the scapula, turns downwards and skirts along the posterior border of the scapula, between the serratus magnus in front and the levator anguli scapulae and rhom- boideus minor and major behind, to the inferior angle, where it anastomoses with the subscapular artery. It gives off the following branches:—(a) Supraspinous, which ramifies between the supraspinous muscle and the trapezius, and sends branches through the muscle into the fossa, to anastomose with the suprascapular artery, ( b) Infraspinous branches, one or more of which enter the infraspinous fossa, and anastomose with the dorsal scapular, (c) Subscapular branches, which enter the subscapular fossa, and anastomose with the suprascapular, infra- scapular, and subscapular arteries, (d) Muscular branches, to the muscles between which it runs and to the latissimus dorsi. These branches anastomose with the posterior divisions of the intercostal arteries. (2) The superficial cervical artery, smaller than the posterior scapular, ascends under cover of the anterior margin of the trapezius, lying upon the levator anguli scapulas and splenius muscles. It supplies branches to the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, and splenius muscles, and the posterior chain of lymphatic glands. It anastomoses with the superficial branch of the princeps cervicis which descends from the occipital between the splenius and complexus. It is accompanied by two veins. This artery may arise directly from the thyroid axis, or from the third part of the subclavian artery. THE INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY The internal mammary artery (fig. 844) comes off from the lower part of the first portion of the subclavian, usually opposite the thyroid axis, close to the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, occasionally opposite the vertebral, or at a spot between these two vessels. It descends with a slight inclination forwards and inwards, under cover of the clavicle, and enters the thorax behind the cartilage of the first rib, and thence passes down behind the cartilages of the next succeeding ril is, about half an inch from the external margin of the sternum, to the sixth interspace, where it divides into the superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic. It is accompanied by two veins, which unite into one trunk behind the first intercostal muscle, and pass to the inner side of the artery into the corresponding vena innominata; occasionally on the right side into the vena cava superior direct. The artery may be divided into two portions, the cervical and the thoracic. The cervical portion is covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle, subclavian vein, and internal jugular vein, and is crossed obliquely, from without inwards, by the phrenic nerve. It rests upon the pleura and courses round the upper part of the innominate vein. There is no branch from this part of the artery. The thoracic portion lies behind the cartilages of the six upper ribs, and in the interspace between the ribs has in front of it the pectoralis major and the internal intercostal muscles and the external intercostal membrane. Behind, it is in contact above with the pleura, but it is separated from it lower down by slips of the triangularis sterni. On the left side the artery between the fourth and sixth ribs may be said to be in the anterior mediastinum, the pleura here forming a notch for the heart. In the first, second, and third spaces the artery, if wounded, can be easily tied; but in the fourth space the operation is attended with more difficulty. The remaining spaces are so narrow that a portion of the cartilage would have to be removed to expose the vessel. The branches of the internal mammary artery are:—(1) The superior phrenic; (2) the mediastinal, or thymic; (3) the pericardiac; (4) the sternal; (5) the anterior intercostals; (6) the perforating; (7) the lateral infracostal; (8) the superior epigastric; and (9) the musculo-phrenic. (1) The superior phrenic, or comes nervi phrenici, is a long slender vessel which comes off from the internal mammary just after it has entered the chest, and descends with the phrenic nerve, at first between the pleura and innominate vein; 4