59 THE PALATE BONE the soft palate. The inner border is broad, and rough for articulation with its fellow. When the palate bones are in apposition, these borders form a ridge con- tinuing the crest formed by the palatine processes of the maxillae; this crest receives the inferior border of the vomer. The posterior extremity of the crest forms the posterior nasal spine, from which the azygos uvulse arises. The vertical plate is thin; of its two surfaces, the outer is rough for articula- tion with the maxilla, except a small portion near the middle close to the anterior border where it looks into the antrum, and a small triangular surface at the upper end where it forms part of the spheno-maxillary fossa. Towards the posterior border there is a vertical groove, which forms with the maxilla the posterior palatine canal; it transmits the descending palatine nerves and vessels. The canal may be more or less complete in the palate bone. The internal surface has two transverse ridges separating three shallow depressions. Of these depressions the lower forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose, and the limiting ridge or crest articulates with the inferior turbinal. Above this is the depression for part of the middle meatus; the ridge above is for the second turbinal. The upper groove is narrower and deeper than the lower two, and forms a large part of the superior meatus. The ridges are known as the turbinated crests. The borders of the vertical plate are terminated by irregular prominences, which enter into complex union with sur- rounding bones. Fig. 70.—Palate (Left) Bone. (Inner view.) SPHENOIDAL PROCESS SPHENOPALATINE NOTCH (WHEN THE FORAMEN IS COMPLETE IN THE PALATE BONE, IT IS DUE TO ANKY- LOSIS WITH SPHENOIDAL TURBINAL) The posterior border is vertical, and comes into relation with the anterior border of the internal pterygoid process; below, it terminates in a prominent tuberosity. This presents three grooves or flutes: the inner receives the internal pterygoid, the outer the external pterygoid process, while the middle groove com- pletes the pterygoid fossa, and affords attachment to a few fibres of the internal pterygoid muscle; the superior constrictor of the pharynx also arises from this process. The tuberosity is tunnelled by canals: to the nasal side are the accessory palatine canals ; near its junction with the horizontal plate is the orifice of the posterior palatine canal; and outside this occasionally may be found the minute external palatine canals (fig. 81). The sphenoidal process, which is a process of variable shape, surmounts the posterior border; it has three surfaces and two borders. The superior surface comes into apposition with the sphenoidal turbinal bone, and forms part of the pterygo-palatine canal. The internal surface forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and is prolonged on to the roof, and comes in contact with the ala of the vomer. The outer surface is subdivided by a thin lip into an anterior smooth portion for the spheno-maxillary fossa, and a posterior rough part for the base of the internal pterygoid plate. Of the borders, the posterior is thin and articulates with the internal pterygoid plate; the anterior border forms the posterior boundary of the spheno-palatine foramen. The anterior border of the vertical plate is thin, sharp, and presents near the middle the maxillary process, which is received into the maxillary fissure of the maxilla near the lower border of the opening of the antrum.