CORONA RAD I ATA 7(JM situations where the different tracts cross one another the arrangement becomes more complicated. This is notably the case in the region where the fibres of the corpus callosum intersect the fibres of the inner capsule. The corona radiata is the name given to the prolongation of the fibres of the inner capsule into the hemisphere. It is continued upwards from the inner capsule as a somewhat narrow band (peduncle of the corona radiata), but the fibres soon spread out like a fan and proceed to the cerebral cortex. It will be well at this stage to re-examine the constitution of the inner capsule; the latter contains three sets of fibres, namely: (a) Fibres which pass from the crusta of the crus cerebri directly into the corona radiata without the intervention of nerve-cells; (6) fibres passing from the mesencephalon into the optic thalamus and corpus striatum; and (c) fibres from the thalamus (part of the corona radiata of that body); and from the corpus striatum to the cerebral cortex. We have already seen (page 701) that the inner capsule shows in horizontal section an anterior limb, a posterior limb and a genu. The fibres which occupy the most anterior part of the anterior limb belong to the corona radiata of the optic thalamus. Behind these fibres is a tract which extends nearly to the genu; this tract is formed by fibres which are derived from the frontal lobe, and although their function is not accurately known they are sup- posed to be associated with the higher intellectual functions. Traced downwards, this bundle passes into the crusta, forming rather more than the inner fifth of that body, and from thence enters the pons, where a part of it seems to terminate (frontal pontine tract). Its further course is unknown. The portion of the inner capsule immediately in front of the genu is intimately associated with the faculty of speech; it passes in the crusta immediately external to the frontal pontine tracts. The genu conveys fibres from the cortex cerebri to some of the motor cranial nerves. These fibres pass immediately external to the preceding (aphasia) bundle, and probably decussate in the pons to become connected to the nuclei of the facial and hypoglossal nerves, and to the motor nucleus of the trigeminal. The anterior two- thirds of the posterior limb of the inner capsule is formed by the pyramidal tract which is described elsewhere (page 741). The posterior third of the posterior limb of the inner capsule is formed by sensory fibres comprising the optic radiation; the latter proceeds exclusively from the occipital lobe. The remaining sensory fibres are derived from the occipital and temporal, and to a certain extent from the parietal, lobes. They descend in the crusta, occupying the outer third of that body. As this sensory tract traverses the crusta, its outermost part is formed by fibres derived from the fillet. The commissural system, consisting of the corpus callosum and the anterior commissure, has been already described (pages 692, 701). The intrahemispheric or association fibres unite different portions of the cortex of the same hemisphere to one another. These fibres are in two sets—a long ainl a short. The short fibres (fibrse arcuatse seu propria?) unite two adjacent con- volutions, the fibres passing round beneath the fissure which separates the two convolutions. The long fibres are disposed in several more or less well-defined tracts, namely: the cingulum, the fasciculus arcuatus, the fasciculus uncinatus. the perpendicular occipital fasciculus, and the fasciculus longitudinalis inferior. The cingulum is a well-defined band, which occupies the core of the gyrus fornicatus. Near the splenium of the corpus callosum it receives an accession of fibres from the occipital lobe. The fasciculus arcuatus passes from the cortex of the frontal to the occipital lobe; it also sends some fibres into the temporal lobe. The fasciculus uncinatus springs from the orbital gyri and from the inferior frontal convolution, and, after traversing the lower part of the claustrum, ends in the cortex of the temporal lobe near the amygdaloid nucleus. The perpendicular occipital fasciculus passes from the inferior parietal lobule to the inferior occipitotemporal convolution. The fasciculus longitudinalis inferior is an extremely well-defined bundle which passes from the occipital to the temporal lobe. The external capsule also belongs to the association system, as it is chiefly concerned with the convolutions of the island of Reil. Dissection.—The student should remove the pia mater from the anterior part of the upper surface of the cerebellum, and also any of that membrane which may be still adherent to the quadrigeminal bodies. The anterior part of the cerebellum should now be gently pushed back-