SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATICS OF HEAD AND NECK 649 I. THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE HEAD AND NECK A. The Superficial Lymphatic Vessels The superficial lymphatic vessels may be subdivided into the superficial lymphatics of the scalp, the face, and the neck (fig. 398). 1. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the scalp follow roughly the course of the superficial veins. Thus there is (1) a posterior or occipital set, which course downwards over the occipital bone to the occipital, or suboccipital glands as they are sometimes called; (2) a posterolateral or posterior auricular set, which course downwards behind the ear, and end in the posterior auricular or sterno-mastoid glands; (3) an anterolateral or temporal set, which accompany the superficial temporal vein in front of the ear, and end in the parotid lymphatic glands; and (4) an anterior or frontal set, which course downwards over the frontal bone and end in the facial lymphatics. 2. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the face—continuous at the root of the nose with the frontal set of lymphatics descending from the scalp—course down- wards and backwards with the facial vein, receiving tributaries from the inner half of the eyelids, the side of the nose, the contiguous portions of the cheek, and the upper and lower lips. They end in the submaxillary lymphatic glands beneath the lower jaw. The lymphatics from the outer part of the. eyelids and the outer part of the cheek run backwards and slightly downwards to the parotid lymphatic glands. 3. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the neck form a plexus in the sub- cutaneous tissues of the neck. They communicate with the superficial lymphatics of the scalp and face, and with some of the superficial lymphatics of the upper part of the thorax. They end in the superficial cervical chain of lymphatic glands. B. The Superficial Lymphatic Glands The superficial lymphatic glands of the head and neck may be divided into two sets, a transverse and a vertical (fig. 398). 1. The transverse occur in groups in the course of a line drawn from the occiput to the mastoid process, and thence along the zygoma and beneath the body of the lower jaw to the symphysis. They receive as afferent vessels the lymphatics of the scalp and face. Their efferent vessels pass into the superficial and deep cervical chains. They are named:—(1) The occipital, or suboccipital; (2) the posterior auri- cular, or sterno-mastoid; (3) the parotid; (4) the buccal; and (5) the sub- maxillary. (1) The occipital or suboccipital glands are situated at the back of the head, beneath the skin, just below the superior curved line of the occipital bone and over the insertion of the complexus muscle. They receive the lymphatic vessels from the back of the head. Their efferent vessels discharge into the superficial lymphatic glands of the neck. It is these glands which perhaps more especially are found enlarged in secondary syphilis. (2) The posterior auricular or sterno-mastoid glands, situated over the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle behind the ear, receive the posterior auri- cular lymphatics. Their efferent vessels discharge into the superficial cervical lymphatics. (3) The parotid lymphatic glands are situated just in front of the ear over the parotid salivary gland, in the substance of which one or more are embedded. They receive the temporal set of lymphatic vessels, and the lymphatics from the external parts of the eyelid and posterior and greater part of the cheek. They discharge, partly into the submaxillary glands, and partly into the superficial cervical chain. (4) The buccal lymphatic glands are situated on the surface of the buccinator.