THE MUSCLES 324 intermuscular septa which separate it from the origins of the adjacent muscles; and (3) the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. Insertion.—The back of the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones near the lower part of their line of contact. Structure.—This muscle is thicker than the preceding, and its fibres have a more decidedly penniform arrangement, as they pass from their long fibrous origin obliquely downwards and forwards to the tendon which appears first upon the inner border of the anterior aspect of the muscle about the middle, and is free at the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the forearm. It passes through the second compartment of the posterior annular ligament with the tendon of the pre- ceding muscle. The tendons of this and the preceding muscle are invested in a synovial sheath as they pass through the posterior annular ligament, and a small bursa lies beneath each of them close to its insertion. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the sixth and seventh cervical nerves) by filaments from the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve which enter the upper part of the anterior surface of the muscle. Action.—(1) To extend the wrist; and (2) to feebly extend the elbow-joint. Relations.—It is covered by the extensor carpi radialis longiorand the tendons of the three thumb extensors. It lies upon the supinator brevis, the pronator radii teres, the outer surface of the radius and the wrist-joint. Variations.—Its muscular portion may be blended with that of the preceding muscle, or slips may pass between the muscles. The tendon is often divided, and may send separate insertions to the second and third metacarpal bones. MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE FOREAEM The muscles upon the back of the forearm form two layers: the superficial, consisting of those arising from the back of the external condyle of the humerus; and the deep layer, of those which, with one exception, arise from the bones of the forearm only. The superficial layer continues upon the back of the forearm the series of the radial extensors. It consists of four muscles: the extensor communis digitorum; the extensor minimi digiti; the extensor carpi ulnaris; and the anconeus. Superficial, Layer 1. EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM The extensor communis digitorum—named from its common action upon the four fingers—is fusiform and somewhat flattened, and divides below into four tendons. Origin.—(1) The common tendon from the lower part of the external condyle; (2) the deep fascia of the forearm; and (3) the intermuscular septa which separate it from the extensor carpi radialis brevior, the extensor minimi digiti, and the supinator brevis. Insertion.—(1) The lateral ligaments of the metacarpophalangeal joints of the four fingers; the back of the bases of (2) the second, and (3) the third phalanges of the four fingers. Structure.—Arising from the interior of the aponeurotic case formed by the deep fascia and the intermuscular septa, the fleshy fibres soon break up into sepa- rate masses, and converge upon the four tendons which, beginning about the middle of the forearm, become free a short distance above the wrist, and lie side by side in the fourth compartment of the posterior annular ligament; those for the ring and little fingers being more closely connected than the others. After their emergence at the lower border of the ligament, the four tendons, which still retain their flat-