611 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK its dilated portion, represents what was the left duct of Cuvier and part of the sinus venosus in the foetus. As stated at page 605, it is occasionally found pervious, and may be greatly enlarged, and help to form the so-called left superior vena cava. There is, as might be gathered from the consideration of its morphology, no valve where the oblique vein is continued into the coronary sinus. The right marginal vein—sometimes called the anterior cardiac vein, or vein of Galen—runs over the right ventricle, along the right margin of the heart, and opens either into the right auricular vein or separately into the lower part of the right auricle, its orifice, known as the foramen of Galen, being situated immediately below the opening of the superior vena cava. Other small veins—the smaller anterior cardiac veins (venae cordis parvae, or preventricular veins)—also track up from the anterior surface of the right ventricle, and open either into the right marginal vein or separately into the right auricle. 2. THE VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK The veins of the head and neck may be divided for purposes of description into the superficial, which return the blood from the external parts of the head and neck; and into the deep, which return the blood from the deeper structures. The superficial may be again subdivided, according to the region from which they carry the blood, into (1) The veins of the scalp and face; and (2) the veins of the neck. The deep veins—into which, moreover, some of the superficial open—may be subdivided into:—(1) The veins of the diploe; (2) the venous sinuses; (3) the veins of the brain; (4) the veins of the nasal cavities; (5) the veins of the ear; (6) the veins of the orbit; (7) the veins of the pharynx and larynx; and (8) the deep veins of the neck. All the veins, whether superficial or deep, sooner or later terminate in the internal jugular, the external jugular, the vertebral, or the deep cervical vein—chiefly the two former; and these veins open directly or indirectly into the innominate veins at the root of the neck, through which all the blood from the head and neck ultimately passes on its way to the heart. The external jugular vein is quite superficial; it is formed by the confluence of the veins corresponding to the upper branches of the external carotid artery, and, after receiving tributaries from the superficial parts of the neck and from the shoulder, terminates just above the clavicle in the subclavian vein. The internal jugular vein is deeply placed by the side of the common and internal carotid arteries. It begins in the jugular fossa, where it is continuous with the lateral sinus, and, after receiving tributaries corresponding to the lower branches of the external carotid artery, terminates at the root of the neck in the innominate vein. The vertebral vein accompanies the vertebral artery through the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrse. It begins in the suboccipital triangle by the confluence of small veins from the deep muscles at the back of the occiput, and, after receiving tributaries from the cervical spine and deep muscles of the neck, ends in the innominate vein. The deep cervical receives the occipital vein, courses downwards amongst the deep muscles at the back of the neck, and ends in the innominate vein. THE SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK 1. THE SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE SCALP AND FACE The blood from the scalp is returned by three main channels—viz. an anterior, which passes over the forehead and face; a posterior, which descends over the occipital bone; and a lateral, formed by the confluence of two smaller veins which descend over the parietal and temporal bones respectively—one in front, and one behind the ear.