THE MUSCLES 326 tendons of the index and middle fingers above the heads of the metacarpal bones. A stronger band passes downwards and outwards from the ring finger tendon to that of the middle finger at the same level. The fourth tendon divides into two parts. The one joins with the tendon of the ring finger, which immediately after- wards gives off a transverse band to the extensor tendon of the little finger, and the other part joins the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti upon the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh cervical nerve) by several branches from the posterior interosseous division of the musculo-spiral nerve which enter the upper part of the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—(1) Chiefly to extend the first phalanges of the fingers. (2) It has some power of extending the second and third phalanges; but this'part of the tendon of the muscle is chiefly under the control of the lumbricales and interossei, which are attached to the sides of the expansion covering the first phalanx. After extending the fingers, it will also (3) help in the extension of the wrist; and (4) to a slight extent, of the elbow-joint. The bands by which the tendons are attached to one another upon the back of the hand hinder independent extension, especially in the ring finger. The little and index fingers, having special extensors, do not labour under this disadvantage. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia and posterior annular ligament; deeply, the supinator brevis, the extensors of the thumb, the extensor indicis, the dorsal interossei, the posterior and anterior interosseous arteries, the posterior inter- osseous nerve, the wrist and carpal joints; on the radial side is the extensor carpi radialis brevior; and on the ulnar, the extensor minimi digiti. Variations.—Some of the tendons may be deficient, or more frequently the muscle divides into more than four tendons, two or even three of which may be attached to one finger. Occasionally a tendon joins that of the extensor longus pollicis. 2. EXTENSOR MINIMI DIGITI The extensor minimi digiti—named from its action upon the little finger—is small and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The common tendon from the back of the external condyle by a long fibrous process; (2) the deep fascia; and (3) the intermuscular septa which intervene between it and the adjacent muscles. Insertion.—With the corresponding tendon of the preceding muscle. Structure.—Arising from the interior of the elongated case formed by the various aponeuroses which diverge from the back of the external condyle, the fleshy fibres, which do not begin till some distance below that point, are inserted into the radial border of a tendon which begins about the middle of the forearm, and becomes free a short distance above the wrist-joint, a little higher than that of the corresponding part of the preceding muscle. Passing through the fifth com- partment of the posterior annular ligament, which lies upon the line of junction of the radius and ulna, the tendon reaches the back of the fifth metacarpal bone, and there blends with the fourth tendon of the extensor communis digitorum immedi- ately above the metacarpophalangeal joint. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh cervical nerve), by a branch from the posterior interosseous division of the musculo-spiral which enters the deep surface of the upper part of the muscle. Action.—(1) To extend the first phalanx of the little finger; (2) to extend the second and third phalanges; (3) to extend the wrist; and (4) very slightly the elbow also. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia of the forearm and the posterior annular ligament; deeply, the supinator brevis, the extensors of the thumb, and the extensor indicis, the inferior radio-ulnar joint, and the posterior interosseous artery. On the outer side lies the extensor communis digitorum; and on the inner, the extensor carpi ulnaris. Variations.—The extensor minimi digiti is rarely absent, but it is sometimes blended with the preceding muscle. Its tendon is often divided, sometimes into as many as three slips.