676 THE XEBVOL'S SYSTEM greater part of which, however, is lodged in the meshes of the subarachnoid tissue, and in the ventricles of the brain (page 678). This space separates the arachnoid from the dura mater, except where it is crossed by the veins of the brain passing to the cranial sinuses, by the Pacchionian bodies, and by the cranial nerves at their points of exit from the skull. The ARACHNOID is a thin delicate membrane, which presents a well-defined limiting surface towards the- dura mater, but on its deep or pia-matral surface passes insensibly into the subarachnoid tissue. The arachnoid does not dip into the fissures of the cerebrum and cerebellum, with the exception of those fissures which contain processes of dura mater. Thus it is carried into the great longitu- dinal fissure for a depth corresponding to the falx cerebri, and it passes for a short distance into the fissure of Sylvius around the fold of dura mater which projects from the lesser wing of the sphenoid. On each side of the superior longitudinal sinus groups of small tabulated bodies, the so-called Pacchionian glands, project from the surface of the arachnoid; these are enlargements of the normal villi of that membrane which perforate the dura mater and cause absorption of the bone in their vicinity. Most of these bodies are Fig. 406.—Coronal Section through the Great Longitudinal Fissure, showing the Meninges. (Key and Ketzius.) SUBARACHNOID SPACE Superior longitudinal sinus PACCHIONIAN BODY CORPl'S CALL03C.U lodged in irregular pits in thecalvaria; others project into the superior longitudinal sinus. They may also occur in other situations. The subarachnoid tissue consists of very fine trabecule, clothed with endo- thelial cells, which pass from the arachnoid to the pia mater. Thus, a sub- arachnoid space, in the proper sense of the word, does not exist; it is convenient, however, to retain the term to designate the region which is occupied by the sub- arachnoid tissue, and to speak of the accumulations of this tissue which are formed in regions where the distance between the arachnoid and pia mater is increased as subarachnoid spaces. It should be understood, however, that in these larger spaces the subarachnoid tissue is less abundant and the meshes are larger than in the regions where the arachnoid and the pia mater are more approximated. The largest of these spaces is the cisterna magna, which is a continuation of the posterior subarachnoid space of the spinal cord. This space appears triangular in sagittal section. It is bounded in front by the layer of pia mater (tela choroidea inferior, page 718) which closes in the lower part of the roof of the fourth ventricle, and above by the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum. It extends laterally as far as the outer margins of the tonsillar lobes. It communi- cates with the fourth ventricle by means of three small openings; the principal of these (foramen of Majendie ) is in the middle line of the tela choroidea inferior immediately above the obex (page 718). The two others (foramina of Key and