616 THE VEINS veins entering into this plexus are:—the two middle meningeal, which accom- pany the artery of that name; the posterior dental vein ; the mandibular (inferior dental); the masseteric; the buccal; the pterygoid veins from the pterygoid muscles; the deep temporal, by which the plexus communicates with the tem- poral plexus; the spheno-palatine vein ; the infraorbital; the superior pala- tine ; the lower branch of the ophthalmic vein, which courses through the spheno- maxillary fissure from the orbit; and the Vesalian vein, through which the plexus comunicates with the cavernous sinus. The plexus ends posteriorly in the internal maxillary vein which joins the common temporal vein, and anteriorly in the ante- rior internal maxillary or deep facial vein, which passes forwards and downwards between the buccinator and masseter muscles to join the facial vein. The above-mentioned veins, forming by their confluence the pterygoid plexus, correspond in their course so nearly with that of their companion arteries, that a detailed description is not necessary. Although deeply placed, they are for convenience described with the superficial veins. The temporo-maxillary vein is formed by the union of the common temporal vein and internal maxillary vein in the substance of the parotid gland. It usually joins about the angle of the jaw the posterior auricular vein to form the external jugular. At other times it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior division runs forwards and downwards, and joins the facial vein (see Facial Vein). The posterior division runs backwards over the sterno-mastoid and joins the posterior auricular to form the external jugular. When the temporo- maxillary trunk without dividing joins the posterior auricular to form the external jugular vein, the anterior branch is represented by the communicating branch between the external jugular and facial veins. The Posterior Lateral Veins.—The posterior auricular vein begins in a venous plexus on the posterior part of the parietal bone. This plexus communicates Avith the vein of the opposite side, across the sagittal suture, and with the posterior branch of the superficial temporal vein in front, and with the occipital vein behind. It descends over the back part of the parietal bone and the mastoid process of the temporal bone, lying with its artery behind the ear. It then leaves the artery, and passing over the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle obliquely forwards and downwards, joins the temporo-mandibular vein about the level of the angle of the lower jaw, forming the external jugular vein (fig. 385). Tributaries.—(a) Auricular veins from the back of the pinna; and (6) the stylo-mastoid vein, corresponding to the little stylo-mastoid artery. The latter vein opens into the posterior auricular vein, as a rule, as the latter leaves the mastoid process. 2. THE SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE NECK The external jugular vein is formed by the confluence of the posterior auricular and temporo-maxillary veins near the angle of the lower jaw. It runs obliquely downwards and backwards across the sterno-mastoid muscle to a spot opposite the middle of the clavicle, where it terminates as a rule in the subclavian vein. A line drawn from a point midway between the mastoid process and angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle will indicate its course. It is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma, and is crossed by a few branches of the cervical plexus, the great auricular nerve running parallel to it at the upper part of the neck. It at first crosses the sterno-mastoid obliquely, then runs nearly parallel to the posterior border of that muscle, from which it is sejwated throughout its course by the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia. Just above the clavicle it perforates the cervical fascia, by which it is prevented from readily collapsing, the fascia being attached to its walls. It then opens into the subclavian vein; occasionally into the internal jugular, or into the confluence of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. It contains a pair of valves about one inch to two inches above the clavicle, and a second pair where it enters the sub- clavian vein. Both of these valves were shown by Sir James Struthers not to prevent the blood regurgitating, or injections passing from the larger vein into the external jugular.