30 THE SKELETON The body is irregularly cuboidal in shape. The superior surface presents the following points for examination. In front, there is a prominent spine, which is received between the diverging alee of the crista galli, and is known as the ethmoidal spine. The surface behind this is smooth, and is formed by extensions of the lesser or orbital wings; it frequently presents two parallel longitudinal grooves for the olfactory bulbs. This smooth surface is terminated by a ridge, the limbus, hehind which is the optic groove lodging the optic chiasma, and leads on each side into the optic foramen. The groove is bounded posteriorly by the olivary eminence, a ridge of bone indicating the line of union of the pre- and post-sphenoid. Behind this ridge the bone presents a deep hollow, the pituitary fossa, in which the pituitary body is lodged. The floor of this fossa presents numerous foramina for blood-vessels, and at birth the superior orifice of a narrow passage termed the cranio-pharyngeal canal. The pituitary fossa presents on each side, slightly posterior to the olivary eminence, a tubercle of variable size, the middle clinoid process. This is occasionally prolonged to meet the anterior clinoid process on the orbital wing. The posterior boundary is formed by a quadrilateral plate of bone, the dorsum ephippii. The superior angles of this plate are surmounted by the posterior clinoid processes, which give attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. A little below the clinoid process, on each side of the dorsum ephippii, there is a deep notch, converted into a foramen by the dura Fig. 36.—The Sphenoid. (Viewed from above.) mater, for the passage of the sixth cranial nerve. The dorsum is slightly concave posteriorly, and supports the basilar artery and the pons. The inferior surface of the body has a prominent median ridge, the rostrum, which is received between the alas of the vomer. The rest of the surface is rough, and covered by the mucous membrane belonging to the roof of the pharynx. The anterior surface presents in the middle line a vertical ridge of bone, the sphenoidal crest, which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. On each side of the crest is a groove which forms part of the roof of the nose; it is bounded externally by a more or less circular orifice which leads into the sphe- noidal sinuses. Still more externally is a rough area for articulation with the lateral mass of the ethmoid. These sinuses are irregularly shaped, unsymmetrical cavities, separated from one another by a thin vertical septum; in adult bones they may extend into the roots of the pterygoid processes, and even into the base of the occipital bone. The sinuses communicate with the nasal fossa of their respective sides. The lateral margins of the anterior surface are serrated for articulation with the posterior border of the os planum on each side of the ethmoid. The superior margin articulates with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The posterior surface or basi-sphenoid is, in the adult, ankylosed to the basi- occipital. The two bones are separated by a disc of hyaline cartilage until the eighteenth year; by the twenty-fifth year ankylosis is complete. The lateral surface enters into the formation of the posterior part of the inner