THE MUSCLES 346 neus muscle which lies beneath it, and with that muscle it dips beneath the femoral vein and the sheath of the vessels to be attached to the ilio-pectineal line. This internal division is called the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The deep layer of the superficial fascia stretches across the opening, and is firmly attached to the edge of the falciform ligament. From the numerous openings which give passage to the vessels and lymphatics, it is here called the cribriform fascia (cribrum being the Latin for a sieve). MUSCLES OF THE FRONT OF THE THIGH In front of the thigh there is a group of four muscles, the chief function of which is to flex the hip-joint. Two of these muscles arise within the abdomen, and two from the margin of the innominate bone. The two which come from within the abdomen are the psoas and iliacus, and they act together as one muscle, and have been described as such under the name of the ilio-psoas. The third and fourth are the sartorius and pectineus. 1. PSOAS The psoas, or psoas magnus—named from the Greek word meaning the muscles of the loins—is thick, rounded, and fusiform. Origin.—Inner part, by five processes which arise from (1) the sides of the intervertebral cartilages which intervene between the bodies of the last thoracic and the five lumbar vertebras; and (2) the adjacent part of the sides of the bodies of these vertebra?; and between these processes from (3) tendinous arches which bridge over the sides of the bodies of the first four lumbar vertebrae Outer part, from the lower border and the front of the transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebra;. Insertion.—The lower and back part of the lesser trochanter of the femur. Structure.—With the exception of the small tendinous arches which span the sides of each of the four upper lumbar vertebra? from its upper to its lower border, and which give passage to the lumbar vessels, the whole origin of the muscle is fleshy. The fibres pass downwards and forwards in penniform fashion, but with a slight convergence, to the inner side of the tendon, which, beginning in the interior of the muscle about the level of the crest of the ilium, becomes free upon its outer and posterior surface a short distance above Poupart's ligament, while upon its inner surface it receives fibres down to its insertion. The muscle, having hitherto run in a downward, forward, and slightly outward direction, changes its course at Poupart's ligament, and passes downwards and backwards to be attached to the lesser trochanter of the femur. In its passage along the brim of the pelvis and over the lower part of the iliac fossa, the tendon upon its outer aspect begins to receive the insertion of the iliacus muscle. Between the tendon and the capsule of the hip-joint which is in close connection with it, is placed a bursa which frequently communicates through an opening in the capsule with the interior of the hip-joint. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior primary branches of the second and third lumbar nerves by filaments which are given off from the lumbar plexus whilst it is passing through the muscle. Action.—The psoas is a powerful flexor of the thigh upon the pelvis, e.g. in walking, running, or going upstairs. The change in the direction of the tendon after crossing the horizontal ramus of the pubes makes its insertion nearly perpen- dicular to the axis of the femur. The psoas therefore acts with less mechanical disadvantage than is usual with the muscles of the limbs. It has been sometimes described as an external rotator of the hip; and its insertion into the lesser trochanter at the inner side of the femur would appear to favour this view. In order to determine whether it has this action, it is necessary to ascertain whether the line of the tendon of the psoas lies internal or external to the axis of rotation. This axis may be found by drawing a straight line from the centre of the head of the femur to the centre of gravity of the lower limb, which, when the knee is extended, will be about the middle of the intercondylar notch. By reference to the articulated skeleton it will be seen that on account of the position of the lesser trochanter in