THE XEB VOL'S SYSTEM 696 the foramen of Monro to the point -where the cavity bifurcates into its posterior and descending cornua. It corresponds almost exactly in length to the portion of the optic thalamus which lies free within the ventricular cavity. It is greatest in its anteroposterior, and smallest in its vertical diameter. It is limited on the inner side by the attachment of the fornix to the corpus callosum, and by the narrow posterior part of the septum lucidum. On the outer side it is bounded by the fibres of the corpus callosum entering the substance of the hemisphere. Its floor looks upwards and slightly inwards, as can be well seen in coronal sections, and is formed by a series of structures which trend forwards with an inclination inwards. These structures are placed in the following order from without inwards:—the caudate nucleus of the corpus striatum, the taenia semicircularis and lamina cornea, 'the optic thalamus, the choroid plexus and the fornix (figs. 414 and 419). The anterior cornu is directed forwards, downwards, and outwards. It appears crescentic in outline both in coronal and horizontal section. The concavity of the crescent looks downwards and outwards, and is caused by the projection of the Fig. 416.—Coronal Section of the Head passing through the Posterior Horns of the Lateral Ventricles. (From a mounted, specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) Lateral sinus CORPUS DEXTATVM Tentorium eerebelli caudate nucleus into the cavity. The anterior cornu is bounded internally by the septum lucidum above and in front by the corpus callosum, which forms a thin vertical partition between the anterior cornua of opposite sides, and behind and externally by the head of the caudate nucleus. The posterior cornu is horizontal in its whole course, and is directed at first backwards and outwards, and afterwards backwards and inwards. It presents on its inner wall a curved prominence, the hippocampus minor or calcar avis ; and above this a second prominence, the bulb of the cornu, which is caused by a part of the forceps major projecting into the cavity. The hippocampus minor is caused by a fold of the cerebral wall, and corresponds to the calcarine fissure on the mesial surface of the hemisphere (fig. 416). Its floor presents a slight elevation, caused by the fasciculus longitudinalis inferior. Dissection.—The operculum should next be pulled upwards, when the small portion of sub- stance still attaching it to the brain will be broken through. A complete view of the island of