MESIAL AND TENTORIAL SURFACES OF HEMISPHERE 691 When the typical backward turn of the upper extremity of the fissure of Rolando is present, it hooks backwards into the forward bend formed by the upper extremity of the calloso-margiual fissure, and thus the frontal and parietal lobes are only couuected by a narrow isthmus between the two fissures. The gyrus fornicatus, or gyrus cinguli, which forms part of the limbic lobe, commences between the rostrum of the corpus callosum and the extremity of the marginal convolution, and, pursuing an arched course parallel to the corpus callosum, ends in a narrow convolution, the isthmus, which connects it to the uncinate gyrus. It is placed between the calloso-marginal and callosal fissures, and is thus clearly marked off from adjacent structures in the greater part of its extent, but is often very imperfectly separated from the superior parietal lobule. It may also be connected to the hinder end of the marginal convolution by a small gyrus crossing the calloso-marginal fissure. The praecuneus, or quadrate lobule, is a squarish mass of small gyri which is continuous around the margin of the hemisphere with the superior parietal lobule. It is bounded, in front by the upturned end of the calloso-marginal fissure; behind, by the parieto-occipital fissure; and it may be marked off below, from the gyrus fornicatus, by the sulcus subparietalis. The cuneus, or cuneate lobule, is a wedge-shaped mass occupying the interval between the internal parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures. It is continuous around the margin of the hemisphere with the superior occipital convolution. In a properly hardened right hemisphere it shows a distinct bevelling near the margin. This is produced by the impression of the superior longitudinal sinus. This bevelling can be traced downwards to the extremity of the lobulus lingualis, and less distinctly forwards to the prsecuneus. In rare instances it may be seen in the left hemisphere instead of the right. Two sagittally directed convolutions are situated on the tentorial surface. They are termed the superior and inferior occipito-temporal convolutions. The superior of these is divided into an anterior part called the uncinate gyrus, and a posterior part which is known as the lobulus lingualis. The uncinate convolution commences behind at the isthmus, by which it is continuous with the gyrus fornicatus, and ends immediately behind the anterior perforated space in a hook-like elevation, the uncus. It is separated from the dentate convolution by the dentate fissure, it is marked off from the inferior occipito-temporal convolution by the collateral fissure and, in front of this, by the incisura temporalis, it forms part of the limbic lobe. The outer part of the anterior end is marked by a distinct groove, which, as it is jH'oduced by the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli, may be called the tentorial groove (fig. 411 J. The uncinate convolution is covered with a peculiar fine network of white fibres, the sub- stantia reticularis alba. These fibres are derived from the striaj longitudinales laterales which pass from t he splenium of the corpus callosum ou to the isthmus, and from thence to the uncinate gyrus. The dentate convolution or fascia dentata will be more conveniently described with the anatomy of the lateral ventricle, as it is usually dissected in connection with that cavity. The lobulus lingualis is the posterior part of the superior occipito-temporal convolution. It is bounded by the calcarine and parieto-occipital fissures above, and by the collateral fissure below. As the internal occipital border crosses this lobule it divides it into two parts, an upper part which appears on the mesial surface, and a larger lower portion situated on the tentorial surface. The inferior occipito-temporal convolution extends from the apex of the temporal lobe to the occipital pole of the hemisphere. It is bounded above by the collateral fissure, and below by the inferior temporal and inferior occipital fissures. It is marked by the impressio petrosa at the junction of its anterior and middle thirds. Three distinct impressions, which lie in a line with one another, are produced on the brain by the petrous portion of the temporal bone. One of these (fig. 410, n) corresponds to the portion of bone opposite the confluence of the superior petrosal with the lateral sinus. Another, the impressio petrosa, which may be large and conspicuous, is caused by the prominence of the