EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 849 the only retinal layer represented, and where consequently the retina is extremely thin. The nerve-fibres run on the inner surface of the retina and are continuous with those of the optic nerve; they constitute the only retinal layer that is con- tinued into the intraocular end of the nerve. The nerve-cells are found between these surface layers. The larger blood-vessels of the retina run in the inner layers, and none encroach on the layer of nerve-epithelium. Within the coats mentioned, the interior of the eyeball is fully occupied by con- tents, which are divided into three parts, and differently named according to their consistence and anatomical form. They are all transparent, as through them the light has to pass so as to gain the retina. Of these the only one that is sharply and independently outlined is the lens, which is situated in the anterior half of the globe at the level of the ciliary processes, where it is suspended between the other con- tents, which fill respectively the space in front of it and the space behind it. The Fig. 477.—Semi-diagrammatic Horizontal Section through Eyeball and Optic Nerve. (After Elfinger. Kedueed and altered.) space in front is called the anterior or aqueous chamber; that behind the lens is the vitreous chamber. The lens is a biconvex body,with its surfaces directed anteriorly and posteriorly; these surfaces meet at its rounded-off edge or equator, which is near (but does not touch) the ciliary processes all round. The posterior is considerably more convex than the anterior surface; the central part of each surface is called its pole. The lens is closely encased in a hyaline elastic capsule, thicker over the anterior than over the posterior surface. Thus enclosed, it is held in position in the globe by a suspensory ligament, attached to its capsule near the equator all round, and swung from the ciliary region. Posteriorly, the lens rests in a cup formed by the front part of the vitreous, while its anterior capsule is in contact with the aqueous fluid and lies close against the back of the pupillary border of the iris. When in position the lens measures nine millimetres across, and about four millimetres between its poles. On each surface a series of fine, sinuous, grey lines can be seen radiating from the pole towards the equator, called respectively the anterior and posterior 54