1141 UMBILICAL HERNIA Some of these may be deficient by the hernia bursting through them, or they may be matted together. Sir A. Cooper thought this especially likely to occur with the layer of femoral sheath and septum crurale to which he gave the name of fascia propria. PARTS CONCERNED IN UMBILICAL HERNIA A hernial protrusion at the umbilicus, or exomphalos, may occur at three dis- tinct periods of life, according to the anatomy of the part. Any account of umbil- ical hernia would be incomplete without an attempt to explain how this region, originally a most distinct opening, is gradually closed and changed into a knotty mass of scar, the strongest point in the abdominal wall. During the first weeks of foetal life, in addition to the urachus, umbilical arteries, and vein, some of the membranes and a portion of the intestine pass through the opening to join that part of the digestive tract which is developed out- side the abdomen up to a certain time, and then re-enters that cavity. Occasionally this condition persists, owing to failure of development, and the child is born with a large hernial swelling outside the abdomen, imperfectly covered with skin and peritoneum. To this condition the term congenital umbilical hernia should be applied. Later on in foetal life it is the umbilical vessels alone which pass through this opening. At birth there is a distinct ring, which can be felt for some time after in the flaccid walls of an infant's belly. If this condition persist, a piece of intestine may find its way through, forming the condition which should be known as infantile umbilical hernia. This condition is not uncommon. Why it is not more frequently met with is explained by the way in which this ring of infancy is closed and gradually con- verted into the dense mass of scar tissue so familiar in adult life. This is brought about (1) by changes in the ring itself; (2) by changes in the vessels which pass througb it. (1) Changes in the ring itself.—The umbilical ring is surrounded by a sphincter-like arrangement of elastic fibres, best seen during the first few days of fcetal life, on the posterior wall of the belly. In older infants these fibres lose their elasticity, become more tendinous, and then shrink more and more. As they con- tract they divide, as by a ligature, the vessels passing through the ring, thus account- ing for the fact that the cord, wherever divided, drops off at the same spot and without bleeding. (2) Changes in the vessels themselves.—When blood ceases to traverse these, their lumen contains clots, their muscular tissue wastes, while the connective tissue of their outer coat hypertrophies and thickens. Thus, the umbilical vessels and the umbilical ring are, alike, converted into scar-tissue, which blends together. This remains weak for some time, and may be distended by a hernia (infantile). Finally, we have to consider the state of the umbilicus in adult life. The very dense, unyielding, fibrous knot shows two sets of fibres:—(1) Those decussating in the middle line; and (2) two sets of circular fibrous bundles which interlace at the lateral boundaries of the ring. The lower part of the ring is stronger than the upper. In other words, umbilical hernia of adult life, when it comes through the ring itself and not at the side, always comes through the upper part. In the lower three-fourths of the umbilicus the umbilical arteries and urachus are firmly closed by matting in a firm knot of scar-tissue; in the upper there is only the umbilical vein and weaker scar. To the lower part run up the umbilical arteries and the urachus. Owing to the rapid growth of the abdominal wall and pelvis before puberty, and the fact that the urachus and the umbilical arteries, being of scar-tissue, elongate with difficulty, the latter parts depress the umbilicus by reason of their intimate connection with its lower half. Coverings of an umbilical hernia.—These, more or less matted together, are: —(1) Skin; (2) superficial fascia, which loses its fat over the hernia; (3) prolonga- tion of scar-tissue of the umbilicus gradually stretched out; (4) transversalis fascia;