579 FEMORAL THE FEMORAL ARTERY The femoral artery (fig. 372) is the continuation of the external iliac, and extends from the lower border of Poupart's ligament, down the front and inner part of the thigh, to the tendinous opening in the adductor magnus, through which it passes into the popliteal space, and is then known as the popliteal. The femoral artery is at first quite superficial, being merely covered by the skin, and superficial and deep fascia; but, after thus passing about five inches (13 cm.) in a direction downwards and inwards through the space known as Scarpa's triangle, it sinks at the apex of that triangle beneath the sartorius muscle, and thence to its termina- tion continues beneath the sartorius, coursing deeply between the vastus internus and adductor muscles in the space known as Hunter's canal. It at first rests upon the brim of the pelvis and head of the thigh bone, from which it is merely sepa- rated by the capsule of the hip-joint and the tendon of the psoas. Here it can be readily compressed. Owing to the obliquity of the neck of the femur and the direct course taken by the artery, it lies lower down only on muscles, at some little distance from the bone (fig. 373). At its termination, in consequence of the shaft of the femur inclining towards the middle line of the body, the artery lies close to the bone, but to the inner side. The course of the vessel when the thigh is slightly flexed and abducted—the position in which the limb is placed when the vessel is ligatured—is indicated by a line drawn from a spot midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the adductor tubercle. "When the thigh is in the extended position and parallel to its fellow, the course of the artery will correspond to a line drawn from the spot above-mentioned to the inner border of the patella. The artery for about the first inch and a half to two inches (4 to 5 cm.) is known as the common femoral, but at this distance from Poupart's ligament it gives off a large branch called the profunda, or deep femoral. For the rest of its course it is known as the superficial femoral. The superficial femoral is only superficial where it lies in Scarpa's triangle—that is, for about three and a half inches (9 cm.) of its course; the remainder of the artery being deeply placed in Hunter's canal, though less deeply than the profunda, or deep femoral. The details of the anatomy of the femoral will perhaps best be studied by considering the relations of (1) the common femoral; (2) the superficial femoral as it lies in Scarpa's triangle; and (3) the superficial femoral as it lies in Hunter's canal. (1) The relations of the common femoral artery.—In front, the common femoral (fig. 372) is covered by the skin, the superficial fascia, the iliac portion of the fascia lata, the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, the superficial circumflex iliac vein, and sometimes the superficial epigastric vein. The fascia transversalis, which is continued downwards into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament, is also one of its anterior relations, but soon becomes indistinguishable from the sheath of the vessel. Behind, the artery rests upon the tendon of the psoas muscle, which separates it from the brim of the pelvis and capsule of the hip-joint, and, a little lower, on 'the pectineus, more or less loose fat and cellular tissue intervening. The branches of the anterior crural nerve to the pectineus muscle also pass behind it. A similar prolongation to that derived from the fascia transversalis in front descends behind the vessel from the iliac fascia; but, like the anterior prolongation of fascia, soon blends with the sheath of the vessels. To the inner side is the femoral vein, but separated from the artery in the upper part of its course by a thin layer of fascia passing from the continuation of the iliac fascia behind the vessels, to the continuation of the fascia transversalis in front of the vessels. To the outer side is the leash of nerves known as the anterior crural. These are, however, separated from the artery by a few fibres of the psoas muscle. (2) The relations of the superficial femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle (fig. 372).—In front, the artery is covered by the skin and by the superficial and deep fascia, and is crossed at the lower part of Scarpa's triangle by a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. The crural branch of the genito-crural nerve