958 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION The great omentum.—It will be seen that the great omentum is formed of four layers of peritoneum, though this is quite impossible to demonstrate in an adult, the individual layers having become adherent. The great omentum acts as a sort of apron, protecting the intestines and pro- viding them with a heat-economising covering of fat. It is nearly quadrilateral in shape, and is variable in extent. In fig. 564 the great omentum is shown to be connected with the greater curva- ture of the stomach on the one hand, and the transverse colon on the other. This is the arrangement described in the text. Under certain conditions (as shown in fig. 563 ) the posterior la}^er of the great omentum returns to the posterior parietes, and is independent of the transverse meso-colon. This variation is explained in the account of the evolution of the peritoneum (page 1002). Mr. Lockwood has made some investigations on the lengths of the transverse meso-colon and great omentum in thirty-three cases. In twenty, under the age of forty-five, only one subject had a great omentum long enough to be drawn beyond the pubic spine; in five, the omentum reached as far as the pubes. In the cases beyond forty-five years, it was the exception rather than the rule to find an omen- tum which could not be pulled beyond the lower limits of the abdomen. The lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum consists of a double layer of perito- neum extending between the lesser curvature of the stomach and the transverse Fig. 564.— Diagram to show the Peritoneum as seen in Vertical Section. (Allen Thomson.) LIVER GASTRO-HEPATIC OMENTUM STOMACH MESO-COLON TRANSVERSE COLON MESENTERY fissure of the liver. If the two anterior layers of the great omentum are traced upwards, they are seen to enclose the stomach, and then join together again at the lesser curvature to form the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum (fig. 563). It is connected above with the transverse fissure of the liver, below with the upper curva- ture of the stomach; the left extremity encloses the oesophagus; the right border contains the hepatic vessels, and is free, forming the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. The gastro-splenic omentum connects the left extremity of the stomach with the spleen, continuing the layers of peritoneum which enclose the stomach. The gastro-phrenic and phreno-colic ligaments.—As the peritoneum passes from the diaphragm to the stomach it forms a small fold just to the left of the oesophagus. This is the gastro-phrenic ligament. A stout fold of the membrane also extends from the diaphragm (opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs) to the splenic flexure of the colon, and is known as the phreno-colic or costo-colic ligament. Subperitoneal connective tissue.—An elaborate account of this tissue has been written by Mr. Anderson and Mr. Makins. According to these observers, ' the subperitoneal and subpleural fasciae are to be regarded as a portion of a wide system of mesoblastic connective tissue which surrounds the great vessels of the trunk, accompanying these branches from origin to termination, and extending mainly in the form of perivascular sheaths to all parts of the body.' FORAMEN OF WINSLOW - SMALL INTESTINE