SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1110 remains of the thymus gland, the inferior thyroid veins, the trachea and tracheal fascia, the oesophagus and longus colli muscles. Between the trachea and oesophagus are the recurrent laryngeal nerves. (2) On each side. The apex of the lung, covered by pleura, rises about an inch and a half above the first rib. Between it and the trachea and oesophagus lie the following: the internal mammary artery, the phrenic nerve; on the right side, the innominate vein and artery, with the vagus between the two, the cardiac nerves, and the right lymphatic duct. On the left side are the common carotid and subclavian arteries, with the left vagus between them, the cardiac nerves, and the thoracic duct. Farthest back and on each side are the trunk of the sympathetic, the superior intercostal artery, and the first thoracic nerve. Structures found in an intercostal space.—(1) Skin; (2) superficial fascia, with cutaneous vessels and nerves; (3) deep fascia; (4) external intercostal; (5) cellular interval between intercostals, containing trunks of intercostal vessels and nerves; (6) internal intercostals; (7) thin layer of fascia; (8) subpleural connective tissue; (9) pleura (fig. 682). The mamma.—This lies partly over the sheath of the pectoralis major and partly over the serratus magnus. It is usually described as reaching from the third to the fifth or sixth rib, and from the sternum to the anterior border of the axilla. It is most important to remember that the breast is often a much more extensive structure than would be included in the above very limited description. Thus (1) the breast is not encapsuled at its periphery, its tissue branching and breaking up here Fig-. 682.—Section of the Sixth Left Intercostal Space, at the Junction of the Anterior and Posterior Thirds. (Tillaux.) Aponeurosis covering the internal intercostal muscle Internal intercostal muscle PLEURA to become continuous with the superficial fascia (Stiles). (2) The ligamenta suspensoria contain breast tissue. (3) There is a lymphatic plexus, and, often, minute lobules of breast tissue, in the pectoral fascia (Heidenhain). In the male the nipple is placed in the fourth space, nearly an inch outside the cartilages of the fourth and fifth ribs. On the nipple itself open the fifteen or twenty ducts which dilate beneath it, and then diverge and break up for the supply of the lobules. The skin over the areola is very adherent, pigmented, and fatless. Here also are groups of little swellings corresponding to some twenty large sebaceous follicles. The skin over the breast is freely movable, and united to the fascia which encases the organ, and thus to the interlobular connective tissue, by bands of the same structure—the ligamenta suspensoria. Under the breast, and giving it its mobility, is a cellulo-fatty layer, the seat of submammary abscess. The nerves which supply the breast are the anterior cutaneous branches of the second, third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves, and the lateral branches of the last three. The connection of these trunks serves to explain the diffusion of the pain often observed in painful affections of the breast. Thus pain may be referred to the side of the chest and back (along the above intercostal trunks), over the scapula, along the inner side of the arm (along the intercosto-humeral nerve, a branch of the second intercostal), or up into the neck, probably along the supra-clavicular branch from the cervical plexus, which communicates with the second intercostal (Treves). The gland is supplied by the following arteries : the aortic intercostals of the second, third, fourth, and fifth spaces, similar intercostal branches from the