424 THE MUSCLES Nerve-supply.—The spinal nerves as they emerge from the intervertebral for- amina. Action.—To flex laterally the spinal column. Relations.—In the neck, the anterior primary branches of the nerves come out between the anterior and posterior inteitransversales. and the posterior primary branches emerge at the inner borders of the posterior inteitransversales.. They are hidden from view by the mass of muscles attached to the transverse processes. In the lumbar region they he under cover of the erector spinse and its divisions, and they are covered in front by the psoas (fig. 286). THE SUBOCCIPITAL MUSCLES The suboccipital group consists of short muscles, situated in the same plane as the preceding, but somewhat altered in their arrangement on account of the peculiar movements of the region. They are the rectus capitis posticus major and minor, the obliquus capitis inferior and superior, the rectus capitis lateralis. 1. RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR The rectus capitis posticus major (fig. 308)—somewhat incorrectly named from the direction of its fibres, its position, and size—is a triangular sheet. Origin.—The upper surface of the spine of the axis along its side and one-half of its bifid tip. » Insertion.—The middle third of the inferior nuchal line of the occipital bone. Structure.—From a narrow tendinous origin the fleshy fibres diverge as they run upwards and outwards to a broad insertion. Nerve-supply.—A branch of the suboccipital which enters the middle of its deep surface. Action.—To extend the head upon the neck; and to rotate the head to the same side. Relations.—Behind, the complexus and obliquus superior; in front, the succeeding muscle. 2. RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR The rectus capitis posticus minor (fig. 308)—named from its direction, size, and position—is also flat and triangular. Origin.—The upper part of one-half of the posterior tubercle of the atlas. Insertion.—The inner third of the inferior nuchal line of the occipital bone, and the space immediately in front of it. Structure.—Fleshy, and consisting of fibres which diverge in fan shape as they pass upwards and outwards. Nerve-supply.—Branches of the suboccipital nerve which enter the outer part of its deep surface. Action.—To extend the head on the neck. Relations.—Behind, the preceding muscle and complexus; in front, the pos- terior occipito-atlantal ligament. 3. OBLIQUUS CAPITIS INFERIOR The obliquus capitis inferior (fig. 308)—named from its direction and position—is a fusiform sheet. Origin.—The upper part of the side of the spine of the axis. Insertion.—The lower part of the tip of the transverse process of the atlas. Structure.—Stronor and fleshy, with pointed extremities, and a general direc- tion upwards and outwards.