THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS 1034 nearer its upper than its lower surface. It is about an inch and a half in length, and its greatest width is about three-quarters of an inch. It is surrounded by the bulbo-cavernosi muscles, the greater part of the fibres of which pass between it and the corpora cavernosa to blend together in the middle line ; and it rests posteriorly against the superficial triangular ligament about half an inch in front of the anus. It is liable to considerable enlargement after middle age. Muscles.—The muscles of the penis are three on each side—the ischio- cavernosus, the bulbo-cavernosus, and the superficial transversus perinsei (fig. 629). The ischio-cavernosus (erector penis) arises from the inner surface of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, from the pubic ramus, and from the adjacent root of the crus penis, and is inserted into the surface of the tunica albuginea of Fig. 629.—The Male Perineum. (Modified from Hirsehfeld and Leveille.) BUL80-CAVERN0SUS Superficial triangular ligament ISCHIO-CAVERNOSUS INFERIOR PUDENDAL NERVL SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL NERVE INFERIOR HEMORRHOIDAL NERVE CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF FOURTH SACRAL Gluteus maximus TUBEROSITY OF ISCHIUM Great aacro-seiatie ligament Levator ani Superficial transversua perinaei Sphincter ani the corpus cavernosum near the point of attachment of the suspensory ligament. A slip, the compressor venae dorsalis, is occasionally detached from its more distal portion, and becomes inserted into the fascial sheath of the penis over the dorsal vessels, or may blend with its fellow in a narrow tendon in this situation. The bulbo-cavernosus (accelerator urinae) arises from a median raphe which extends from the anterior extremity of the sphincter ani along the whole length of the bulb as far as the level of the symphysis. A few of its more posterior fibres pass outwards to become inserted into the superficial triangular ligament and into the bulb, and a bundle of its most anterior fibres, muscle of Houston, may, like the similar slip from the ischio-cavernosus, form a sling around the corpora cavernosa and become attached to the fascial sheath of the penis, or it may be inserted into the side of the corpus cavernosum itself. In the former case it acts as