61 THE MALAR BONES horizontal plates join. At birth the two plates are nearly equal, but as the nasal sinuses increase in height the vertical plate is lengthened, until it becomes twice the length of the horizontal plate. THE MALAR The malar bone, somewhat quadrilateral in shape, is situated at the outer and upper part of the side of the face, and forms the prominence known as the cheek. Each bone has a convex external surface, presenting near the centre one or two minute orifices for the transmission of the malar nerves and arteries. This surface is largely covered by the orbicularis palpebrarum, and gives origin to the zygomaticus major and minor. The internal surface is concave, and abruptly excluded from the orbit by a prominent ledge of bone, the orbital process, which forms the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa. A large part of this surface is rough for articulation with the malar process of the maxilla. The orbital process of the malar is at right angles with the external surface, and presents the orbital orifice of the malar canal; Fig. 72.—The Left Malar Bone. NOTCH FOR this canal is usually single, but it may bifurcate as it traverses the bone, one branch emerging on the external, the other on the internal surface. The thin edge of this process articulates inferioiiy with the orbital plate of the maxilla, and ends in a point known as the maxillary process. The superior portion articulates with the malar crest on the external surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid; in the suture between these bones a notch (sometimes a foramen) exists for the temporal branch of the fifth nerve. When the orbital surface is large, it excludes the sphenoidal wing from articulation with the maxilla at the anterior extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure. When this is the case, the border presents near its middle a short non-serrated margin. The malar bone presents superiorly the frontal process, which articulates with the external angular process of the frontal bone. The maxillary process articu- lates with the maxilla, and occasionally forms the superior segment of the infra- orbital foramen. The zygomatic process is directed backwards,*and is serrated mainly on its inner aspect for articulation with the zygoma. Of the four borders, the orbital is the longest, "and extends from the frontal to the maxillary process. It is thick, rounded, and forms the anterior third of