THE ARTERIES 514 THE INFERIOR THYROID ARTERY The inferior thyroid, the largest of the three branches into which the thyroid axis divides, ascends tortuously upwards and inwards in front of the vertebral artery, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the longus colli muscle, and behind the common carotid, and the sympathetic nerve or its middle cervical ganglion, to the thyroid body, where it anastomoses with the superior thyroid artery and the artery of the opposite side. It gives off the following branches:—(1) Muscular; (2) ascending cervical; (3) oesophageal; (4) tracheal; and (5) inferior laryngeal. (1) The muscular branches supply the scalenus anticus, longus colli, sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles, and the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. (2) The ascending cervical (fig. 329) is given off from the inferior thyroid as that vessel is passing beneath the carotid sheath. It ascends between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, lying parallel and a little internal to the phrenic nerve and behind the internal jugular vein. It anastomoses with the vertebral, ascending pharyngeal, and occipital arteries, and supplies the following branches:—{ a) Muscular, to the deep muscles of the neck; (6) spinal, which enter the spinal canal with spinal branches of the vertebral artery; and (c) phrenic, to the phrenic nerve. Two veins accompany the ascending cervical artery, and end in the innominate vein. (3) The oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid artery supply the oesophagus, and anastomose with the other arteries supplying that tube. (4) The tracheal branches ramify on the trachea, where they anastomose with the tracheal branches of the superior thyroid and bronchial arteries. (5) The inferior laryngeal branch passes along the trachea to the back of the cricoid cartilage in company with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. It enters the larynx beneath the inferior constrictor. Its further distribution in that organ is described under Larynx. THE SUPRASCAPULAR ARTERY The suprascapular, or transversalis humeri, passes more or less transversely outwards across the root of the neck, lying first beneath the sterno-mastoid, and then in the subclavian triangle behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle. At the external angle of this space it is joined by the suprascapular nerve, sinks beneath the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and passes over the ligament bridging the scapular notch, the nerve passing through the notch (fig. 343). It then ramifies in the supraspinous fossa of the scapula, and, winding downwards round the base of the spine over the neck of the scapula, enters the infraspinous fossa, and ter- minates by anastomosing with the dorsal scapular and posterior scapular arteries. As it lies under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle, it crosses the phrenic nerve and the scalenus anticus; and as it courses through the subclavian triangle, it is sepa- rated by the cervical fascia which descends from the omo-hyoid to the first rib, from the subclavian artery and brachial plexus of nerves. If this artery is seen in tying the subclavian it should not be injured, as it is one of the chief vessels by which the collateral circulation is carried on after ligature of the subclavian in the third part of its course. At the outer part of the subclavian triangle it is covered by the trapezius, and after passing over the scapular ligament it pierces the supra- spinous fascia and passes beneath the supra-spinatus muscle, and ramifies between it and the bone. In the infraspinous fossa it lies between the infra-spinatus and the hone. The artery is accompanied by two veins. The branches of the suprascapular are:—(1) The inferior sterno-mastoid, given off to that muscle as the vessel crosses behind it; (2) the subclavicular to the subclavius muscle; (3) the nutrient, to the clavicle; (4) the suprasternal, which passes over the sternal end of the clavicle to the skin of the upper part of the chest; (5) the acromial, to the arterial rete or plexus on the acromial process, to reach which it pierces the trapezius; (6) the articular, to the acromio-clavicular