82 THE SKELETON measurement of the cranial cavity. A skull divided in this way facilitates the examination of the parts about the posterior nares. The horizontal section of the skull should be made through a line extending from the ophryon to the occipital point, passing laterally a few millimetres above the pterion on each side. It is of great advantage to study the various parts on the floor of the cranial cavity in a second skull having the dura mater and its various processes in situ. The floor of the cranial cavity presents three irregular depressions termed the anterior, middle, and posterior fossa?. The Anterior Fossa.—The floor of this fossa is on a higher level than the rest of the cranial floor. It is formed by the horizontal plate of the frontal bone, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the lesser wings of the sphenoid, which meet each other and exclude the pre-sphenoid from the anterior fossa. The free margins of the lesser wings and the optic groove mark the limits of this fossa posteriorly. The central portion of the fossa is depressed on each side of the crista galli, the Fig. 90.—The Skull in Sagittal Section. BREGMA depressions forming a part of the roofs of the nasal sinuses; laterally, the floor of this fossa is convex where it corresponds to the roof of the orbits, and is marked by irregular furrows. It supports the frontal lobes of the cerebrum. The sutures traversing the floor of the fossa are the fronto-ethmoidal, forming three sides of a rectangle, that portion of the transverse facial suture which traverses the roof of the orbit, arid the ethmoido-sphenoidal suture, the centre of which corresponds to the gonion. The points of interest in the fossa are:— A groove for the superior longitudinal sinus. The foramen caecum which transmits a small vein. The crista galli. The ethmoidal fissure for the nasal branch of the fifth nerve. The cranial orifice of the anterior ethmoidal canal, transmitting the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, and a meningeal branch of the anterior ethmoidal artery. Ethmoidal foramina for the olfactory filaments. Cranial orifice of the posterior ethmoidal canal, transmitting a meningeal branch of the posterior ethmoidal artery.