THE KIDNEYS 1011 the periphery; others forming a part of the columns of Berlin, and disposed almost at right angles to the last. These cortical groups are called pyramids of Ferrein, in contradistinction to the much larger medullary pyramids of Malpighi. The kidney of a foetus differs from that of the adult in the lobular subdivision of its surface, each lobule corresponding to the base of a pyramid of Malpighi capped by a thin layer of cortex. Such a condition is permanent in some of the lower animals; but in man the -superficial indications of morphological segmentation usually become obliterated during the progress of growth of the cortical tissue, and are seldom visible after the age of ten. Uriniferous tubes (fig. 614).-—The secreting tubules commence by a number of spherical capsules (capsules of Bowman), which lie in the cortex. From each capsule passes a tube with a narrow neck, which becomes wide and convoluted, then, narrowing again, runs down into the subjacent Malpighian pyramid, forms a loop (looped tube of Henle), returns into the cortex, where it again becomes dilated and contorted, and, after undergoing a final constriction, opens into a straight collecting tube, the axial element of a pyramid of Ferrein. The collect- ing tubes run into the Malpighian pyramids, and unite with each other to form a Fig. 613.—Hokizontal Section of Kidney, showing the Sinus. COLUMN PYRAMID Cnrtico- OF OF medullary BERTIN MALPIGHI artery Artery Braneh DUCT Portion Irregular of of fatty braneh artery capsule of artery smaller number of larger tubes, which terminate by opening on to the papillary apex of the pyramid, and into the corresponding calyx of the duct. The tubes are lined with epithelium throughout, the cells being tesselated in the capsule, irregu- larly cubical in the convoluted tubes, flattened on the loops of Henle, and columnar in the cortical collecting tubes and in the straight tubes of the medulla. Vessels (fig. 614).—The kidney is very vascular. The larger arterial branches, if traced in section from the point at which they pierce the bottom of the sinus, will be found to run up between the pyramids of Malpighi to subdivide at their bases into cortico-medullary arches which lie between the cortex and medulla, giving off arterioles in both directions, the cortical branches supplying afferent twigs to the glomeruli within the capsules of Bowman; the medullary branches running inwards to form plexuses around the straight and looped tubules of the Malpighian pyramids. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian glomeruli form a capillary plexus around the uriniferous tubules and terminate in the renal veins. The sur- face of the kidney receives small collateral arteries which pass through the fatty capsule from the suprarenal, spermatic, and lumbar vessels. The superficial veins appear in the form of little stellate groups (stars of Verheyen ), which communi-