THE SKELETON 34 Carotico-clinoid.—From the anterior to the middle clinoid process. The ossifi- cation of this ligament gives rise to a ring of bone through which the internal carotid artery passes. Pterygo-spirums.—This is attached to the spine of the sphenoid and the external pterygoid plate near the upper third. The spheno-mandibular ligament (long internal lateral ligament of the jaw). Several other insignificant bands have received names, but they are of no im- portance. Blood-supply.—The sphenoid is supplied by branches of the middle and small meningeal arteries; also the anterior deep temporal and other branches of the in- Fig. 41.—The Sphenoid at Birth. VIDIAN CANAL LINGULA ternal maxillary, such as the Vidian, pterygo-palatine and spheno-palatine. The body of the bone also receives twigs from the internal carotid. Ossification.—The sphenoid is ossified in cartilage from twelve ossific nuclei which appear in pairs. The nuclei are divisible into two sets,—those for the pre- sphenoid, and those for the post-sphenoid. The post-sphenoid centres consist of four pairs disposed as follows:—One for each ali-sphenoid (great wing). A pair of median nuclei for the basi-sphenoid, and a nucleus for each lingula (sphenotic nucleus), and one for each internal pterygoid. The external pterygoid is an outgrowth from the great wing. The pre-sphenoid centres consist of a nucleus for each orbito-sphenoid (lesser wings), and a median pair for the body of the pre-sphenoid. These nuclei appear Fig. 4-7.—The Jugum Sphenoidale. at intervals from the eighth week to the end of the third month in the following order: ali-sphenoid, basi-sphenoid, lingula?, internal pterygoids, orbito-sphenoid1, and pre-sphenoid. The various earthy spots fuse together, so as to form at birth three pieces. The median piece consists of the basi-sphenoid and lingulse, con- joined with the pre-sphenoid carrying the orbito-sphenoids; the two lateral pieces are the ali-sphenoids (greater wings) carrying the internal pterygoid plates. The greater wings are joined to the lingulse by cartilage. The dorsum ephippii is car- tilaginous at birth. In the course of the first year the orbito-sphenoids fuse in the middle line to form the jugum sphenoidale, which excludes the anterior part of the pre-sphenoid from the cranial cavity. The greater wings fuse with the lingula? in the course of the first year.