1173 THE THIGH three-quarters of an inch (18 mm.) below the level of the femoral head, and, when the femur is extended, is a little below the centre of the hip-joint. This part of the bone is covered by the gluteus medius. The slightness of the prominence of the great trochanter in the living subject compared with that in the skeleton is explained by fig. 738, which shows how the descending gluteus medius and minimus fill up the space between the ilium and trochanter. Nelaton's line.—This most useful guide is a line drawn from the anterior superior spine to the most prominent part of the tuberosity of the ischium. In normal limbs, the top of the great trochanter just touches this line. In dislocation, fractures of the neck, and in wasting of the neck, as in osteo-arthritis, the relation of the trochanter to Nelaton's line becomes altered. The top of the great trochanter is a guide in Mr. Adams's operation for division Fig. 738.—Transverse Section of the Hip-joint and its Relations. (One-third.) (Braune.) A Gluteus minimus ■ Gluteus medius Peetiueus Ilio-psoas of the neck of the femur, the puncture being made and the saw entered one inch (25 mm.) above and about one inch in front of this point. Bryant's triangle.—Mr. Bryant makes use of the following in deciding the position of the great trochanter. The patient being flat on his back, (1) a line is dropped vertically on to the couch from the anterior superior spine; (2) from the top of the great trochanter a straight line in the long axis of the thigh is drawn to meet the first; (3) to complete the triangle, a line is drawn from the anterior superior spine to the top of the trochanter. This line is practically Nelaton's. The second line will be found diminished on the damaged or diseased side. Muscular prominences.—The tensor vagina? femoris (ilio-aponeurotic muscle) forms a prominence beginning just outside the sartorius and reaching downwards and somewhat backwards to the strong fascia lata, three to four inches (75 to 100 mm.) below the great trochanter. Below this point, as far as the outer tuberosity of the tibia, the strong ilio-tibial band can be felt. The sartorius, the chief land-