871 EXTERNAL EAR ear, ends below at the posterior margin of the lobule. On the upper part of the inverted edge of the helix a little irregular process often exists, which has been regarded as the shrivelled tip of the primitive ear, and anteriorly, where it begins to bend backwards, there is a small projection, the spine of the helix (Fig. 495). The hollow from which the helix starts is called the concha. Within the helix, but separated from it by the scaphoid fossa (fossa of the helix) runs a second curved ridge, the antihelix. It commences below in the little process known as the antitragus, and bifurcating superiorly bounds a shallow fossa just above the concha, the so-called triangular fossa (fossa of the antihelix). The concha, bounded by the antihelix, is deeply notched below (incisura intertragica). Over- lapping the commencement of the notch before and behind are two eminences, the anterior and larger, the tragus; the posterior, the antitragus. The auricle varies greatly in different individuals, and the lobule perhaps more than any other part. The cartilaginous framework of the ear, although it does not enter into all its parts, gives to it the general character and appearance already described. It consists of pliable reticular cartilage of the yellow elastic kind. It does not enter into the formation of the lobule, which consists entirely of dense connec- tive tissue and fat. Its lower portion is so rolled upon itself as to form a tube incomplete above, which tails off as it passes inwards to be attached to the lower third of the external auditory meatus. This attachment is effected by means Fig. 494.—Section through the Orifice of the Right External Auditory Meatus. Posterior auricular artery Section of cartilaginous portion H EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL Lining membrane Fissure of Santorini of a dense nbro-elastic tissue which allows considerable shifting on traction of the pinna upwards and backwards. A section passing through the orifice of the meatus shows the cartilage greatly in excess of the fibrous membrane which completes its contour. Deeper sections show the cartilage diminishing more and more until it forms scarcely a third of the lumen of the tube near the bony meatus. The wall of the channel is traversed by fissures, the fissures of Santorini; but these are not constant in their number, extent, or direction; they are rilled with fibrous tissue, and allow the canal to be straightened by traction on the pinna. The lower segment of the cartilaginous meatus is in close contact with the parotid gland. An abscess in this region may thus burrow through the fissures and dis- charge itself through the external meatus. There is also a gap between the helix and the tragus bridged over by a band of dense fibrous tissue. Several fissures traverse the cartilage, and a deep cleft dividing the antihelix severs the caudate process from the rest of the cartilage below. Ligaments.—An anterior ligament connects the spine of the helix with the root of the zygoma, and a posterior passes from the concha to the mastoid pro- cess. A pair of ligaments belong to the cartilage itself, the strong band already described completing the orifice of the meatus, and one less marked passing between the concha and the processus caudatus. Muscles.—The extrinsic muscles, the attollens, attrahens, and retrahens