THE VEINS G22 poral bone it leaves the tentorium and curves downwards and inwards and then forwards over the jugular process of the occipital bone, and ends in the posterior compartment of the jugular fossa in the sinus jugularis or bulb of the internal jugular vein. The S-shaped part of the sinus which lies on the mastoid portion of the temporal and jugular portion of the occipital bone is sometimes known as the sigmoid sinus. The lateral sinus receives the veins from the temporo- sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum, some of the superior and inferior cerebellar veins, some of the veins of the medulla and pons, the occipital and the external parietal veins of the diploe, and at the spot where it leaves the tentorium the supe- rior petrosal sinus and, when present, the petro-squamous sinus. It communi- cates with the occipital and vertebral veins through the mastoid and posterior condyloid foramina by means of emissary veins. As the lateral sinus lies between the layers of the tentorium it is on section prismatic in shape. The sigmoid portion is semicylindrical. The right lateral sinus is usually the larger and the direct continuation of the superior longitudinal sinus, and hence conveys the chief part of the blood from the cortical surface of the brain and vault of the skull. The left lateral sinus is usually the smaller and the direct continuation of the straight sinus, and hence returns the chief part of the blood from the central ganglia of the brain. The relation of the lateral sinus to the outside of the skull, especially to the mastoid process of the temporal bone, is of importance with reference to the opera- tions of trephining the mastoid cells, opening the tympanum, and exposing the sinus itself, in septic thrombosis, &c. The course of the sinus corresponds to a line drawn from the external occipital protuberance to the base of the mastoid pro- cess, or to the asterion, and thence over the back of the mastoid process in a curved line towards its apex. (8) The superior petrosal sinus (figs. 387, 388) runs at the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli, along the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It connects the cavernous with the lateral sinus. Leaving the outer and back part of the cavernous sinus just below the fourth nerve, it crosses the fifth nerve, and, after grooving the petrous bone, ends in the lateral sinus as the latter turns downwards on the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It receives veins from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum, veins from the cerebellum, veins from the tympanum through the squamo-petrosal fissure, and sometimes the fronto-parietal veins of the diploe. (9) The inferior petrosal sinus (figs. 387, 388) runs along the line of the petro-occipital suture, and connects the cavernous sinus with the commencement of the internal jugular vein. It is shorter than the superior petrosal, but con- siderably wider. As it crosses the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, it separates the glosso-pharyngeal from the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. It receives veins from the inferior surface of the cerebellum, from the medulla and pons, and from the internal ear. The last issue through the aqueduc- tus vestibuli and aqueductus cochlea?. (10) The cavernous sinus (fig. 387) is an irregular shaped venous space situated between the meningeal and periosteal layers of the dura mater on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. It extends from the central end of the sphe- noidal fissure in front to the apex of the petrous bone behind. Its outer wall is the more distinct, and contains in it, but separated from the blood by the lining mem- brane of the sinus, the third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, the nerves lying in the above-mentioned order from above down- wards, and from within outwards. The internal carotid artery and the sixth nerve also pass through the sinus, being separated from the blood by the endothel- ial lining. The inner wall is practically absent, the blood-space communicating across the middle line with the opposite sinus in front, behind, and below the pituitary body or hypophysis cerebri. (See Circular Sinus. ) The cavernous sinus is traversed by numerous trabecular or fibrous bands, so that there is no central space, but rather a number of endothelially-lined irregular lacunar cavities communicating with each other. Hence its name cavernous, from its resem- blance to cavernous tissue. In front it receives the ophthalmic vein, with which it is practically continuous, and just above the third nerve the sinus alse parvae. ii