BRACHIAL 529 elbow in the usual situation of the brachial, whence one follows the normal course of the radial artery through the forearm, and the other takes the normal course of the ulnar artery, giving off as usual the common interosseous artery. This arrangement may be considered a simple high division of the brachial. At other times the disposition of the two vessels is different: thus (i) the two arteries may communicate at the elbow by a cross branch, or reunite, and then again divide in the usual manner, (ii) One vessel may follow the course of the ulnar artery in the forearm, and the other divide into the radial and common interosseous. This condition is spoken of as a high origin of the ulnar, (iii) One artery may divide into the radial and ulnar as usual, and the other take the course of the common interosseous and divide into the anterior and pos- terior interosseous arteries ; or, much more rarely, take the course of the posterior interosseous artery, the anterior interosseous coming from the ulnar, (iv) The vessels may follow a course in the upper arm different from that of the normal brachial. Thus (A) the branch representing the radial may (a) cross over or under the other branch ; (b) perforate the deep fascia above the elbow, and run beneath the skin to its place in the forearm ; or(c) pass behind the tendon of the biceps. (B) The branch representing the ulnar may (a) run to the front of the inner condyle with the median nerve, and thence reach its usual situation by descending from within outwards beneath the fascia and pronator teres, or, more rarely, beneath some of the flexor muscles, or merely beneath the skin ; or (b) it may run with the ulnar nerve behind the inner condyle, and thence beneath the muscles to its usual place in the forearm. (2) An enlarged vas aberrans may be present. This is a long slender vessel, which arises from the brachial usually near the origin of the superior profunda, and joins most commonly the radial artery, or, more rarely, one of its branches, or the ulnar. It is said to be usually present, though not admitting of complete injec- tion, and to descend over the median nerve to the biceps muscle. At times this vessel takes the place of the brachial ; the median nerve will then be found behind the artery. (3) The brachial may run with the median nerve towards the inner condyle, where it then usually turns round a supracondyloid process after the course normally taken by the artery in the Felida?, in which it runs through a supracondyloid foramen. Thence it descends to its normal situation beneath the pronator teres, which then usually arises from a fibrous expansion from the process. (4) The brachial maybe covered by various muscular slips derived from the adjacent muscles. (5) Certain abnormalities in the giving off of its collateral branches. These are referred to under each branch. Branches of the Brachial Artery The branches of the brachial artery are:—(1) The superior profunda; (2) the inferior profunda; (3) the anastomotic^ magna; (4) the nutrient; (5) the muscular; and (6) the terminal branches—the radial and ulnar arteries. (1) The Superior Profunda Artery The superior profunda is the largest of the branches of the brachial. It arises from the inner and hinder aspect of that artery, a little below the inferior border of the tendon of the teres major. It at first lies to the inner side of the brachial, but soon passes behind that vessel, and, sinking between the inner and long heads of the triceps with the musculo-spiral nerve, curves round the humerus in the musculo- spiral groove, lying in contact with the bone between the inner and outer heads of the triceps. On reaching the external supracondyloid ridge of the humerus, it perforates the external intermuscular septum, and, continuing forward between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus to the front of the external condyle, ends by anastomosing with the radial recurrent artery. It gives off the following branches:— (a) The ascending branch, which runs upwards behind the tendon of the teres major in the substance of the triceps, or between the outer and inner heads of that muscle, to anastomose with the tricipital branch of the posterior circumflex artery. The importance of this anastomosis in carrying on the collateral circula- tion after ligature of the third part of the axillary artery below the circumflex, or the brachial above the profunda, has already been mentioned (page 526). (b) The cutaneous branch, which runs with the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve to supply the skin of the outer side of the arm. (c) The articular branch, which is often larger than the continued trunk of the superior profunda itself, is given off from the artery just before it perforates the intermuscular septum, runs downwards in the substance of the triceps to the back of the external condyle, where it anastomoses with the interosseous recurrent, and forms an arterial arch by anastomosing with the anastomotica magna across the