991 THE PERITONEUM Varieties.—The principal peculiarity is due to the presence of supplementary spleens (lienculi), found in the gastro-splenic omentum, or less often in the great omentum. From one to twenty of these small bodies may be met with. They are red and round, of the same structure as the spleen, and vary in size from a pea to a walnut. Structure.—Beneath the covering of peritoneum is a thin but tough capsule of areolar tissue, called the tunica propria, which is very adherent to the serous mem- brane. It is remarkably elastic. It sends a prolongation in at the hilum, which follows and supports the vessels to their termination. Within the capsule is the pulp. This is a very soft friable tissue of a dark reddish-brown color, not unlike grumous blood in color and consistence. It can be squeezed out from the cut spleen, and then it will be seen that the whole organ is pervaded by a network of fine fibres which support the pulp. The larger of these come off directly from the fibrous capsule, and are called trabeculee. In Feont. Stomach ; splenic flexure of colon. Outee Side. Diaphragm ; ninth to eleventh ribs between, axillary line. GENERAL RELATIONS OF THE SPLEEN Innee Side. Stomach; pancreas; left kidney and capsule. Behind. Diaphragm. Blood-supply.—The spleen receives its blood from the splenic artery, which is very large in proportion to the body it is going to supply. It divides before entering into about six branches. The artery is very tortuous. The vein, on the other hand, is straight, and lies below the artery. The lymphatics are divided into a superficial and a deep set. The former forms a plexus beneath the peritoneum. The latter are derived from fine peri- vascular spaces in the adenoid tissue around the vessels. They join at the hilum, and pass between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum to the glands in that neighbourhood. The nerves are from the solar plexus. They pass in along the splenic artery. THE EVOLUTION OF THE PERITONEUM AND AN EXPLANATION OF ITS ARRANGEMENT IN THE HUMAN BODY The peritoneum is a serous membrane, and is identical with other like-named membranes which are less complicated in their disposition. It differs in no essential particular from the pleura, from the pericardium, from the tunica vagi- nalis, from the synovial membrane of a joint, or from the simple vaginal sheath of a tendon. In all there is practically a closed sac of thin membrane, which is so disposed as to both line a cavity and to invest the structures which encroach upon that cavity. Imagine a pleural cavity from which the lung had vanished without disturbance of parts. The membrane lining it would appear as a simple serous bag. Next conceive the lung gradually budding towards this sac. It would push the mem- brane before it, and as it did so it would both encroach upon the cavity lined by the membrane, and be itself covered or invested by it. When the lung had attained nearly to the dimensions of the rigid cavity it was occupying, the serous lining would be found to invest the whole of it excepting only its pedicle—the stalk of the original bud—the root of the lung.