SECTION X ON SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY By W. H. A. JACOBSON, M.Ch.Oxon. ASSISTANT SURGEON, GUY'S HOSPITAL SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE HEAD AND NECK THE CRANIUM AND SCALP Bony landmarks.—These should be studied with the aid of a skull, as well as on the living subject. In the middle line, behind, is the external occipital pro- tuberance, or inion, the thickest part of the vault, and corresponding internally with the meeting-point of six sinuses. From this point the superior curved lines pass out towards the mastoid processes, and indicate the first part of the course of the lateral sinuses, which, after running horizontally outwards, turn downwards in the mastoid bone. The position of these important vessels would be more cor- rectly indicated by a line drawn first from the external occipital protuberance to the upper border of the mastoid process, one inch behind the external auditory meatus. This line gives the transverse and longer part of the sinus. A shorter line, from the ending of the first to the tip of the mastoid, will indicate by its upper two-thirds the sigmoid portion of the sinus and the bend by which it communi- cates with the transverse part (Macewen). (Fig. 660.) About two inches and three-quarters (68 mm.) above the external occipital pro- tuberance is the lambda, or meeting of the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures (poste- rior fontanelle, small and triradiate in shape). It is useful to remember, as guides on the scalp to the above two important points, that the lambda is on a level with the supraciliary ridges, and the external occipital protuberance on one with the zygomatic arches. The point of junction of the lambdoidal and squamous sutures, the asterion, is placed about three-quarters of an inch behind and half an inch above the upper part of the posterior border of the mastoid (fig. 659). The bregma, or junction of the coronal, sagittal, and, in early life, the frontal suture (anterior fontanelle, large and lozenge-shaped), lies just in front of the centre of a line drawn trans- versely over the cranial vault from one preauricular point to the other (fig. 659). The pterion, or junction of the frontal, parietal, temporal, and sphenoid bones, lies in the temporal fossa, one and a half to two inches behind the external angular process of the frontal, and about the same distance above the zygoma (fig. 659). This spot also gives the position of the trunk and the anterior and larger division of the middle meningeal artery. The zygoma can be traced backwards to its roots