429 ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARUM THE MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS AND EYEBROWS These are four in number—viz. the orbicularis palpebrarum, the tensor tarsi, the corrugator supercilii, and the levator palpebrae superioris. To these may be added a fifth, the frontalis, which has been described. The levator palpebral superioris will be described with the orbital muscles. The only part of it which is visible in a dissection of the face is its broad expansion, which is intimately blended with the front of the crescentic plate of condensed fibrous tissue called the upper tarsal cartilage. 1. ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARUM The orbicularis palpebrarum—named from the rounded shape of the majority of its fibres (orbiculus, a little circle) and its relation to the eyelids—is an oval sheet with a long transverse diameter and so curved as to fit the prominences and depressions of the eyelids and the margin of the orbit. It consists of a marginal and a central division: the former stronger and called the orbital portion; the latter thin and pale, and called the palpebral portion. Both have attachments to the tarsal ligaments, by which the so-called tarsal cartilages are fastened to the margins of the orbit. The internal tarsal ligament, or tendo oculi, is a strong flat band of fibrous tissue about a sixth of an inch (4 mm.) long with surfaces which look upwards and downwards. It arises from a projection upon the crest of the nasal process of the maxilla, and passes transversely outwards and somewhat upwards in front of the lachrymal sac, to which it gives off an aponeu- rotic covering. It then bifurcates into an upper and a lower division, which diverge to be attached to the inner extremities of the tarsi, here separated by the caruncula lachrymalis. The external tarsal ligament is undivided; it passes from the margin of the frontal process of the malar bone transversely inwards to the ex- tremities of the tarsi, which at the outer commissure of the eyelids are in close contact. The orbital portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum consists of a series of con- centric oval loops which are attached only at the inner side of the orbit. Origin and insertion.—(1) The lower part of the internal angular process of the frontal bone; (2) the posterior half of the outer surface of the nasal process of the maxilla; (3) the upper and lower surfaces of the inner half of the internal tarsal ligament. The palpebral portion consists of paler and shorter semielliptical fibres. Origin.—The upper and lower surfaces of the outer half of the internal tarsal ligament, together with the adjacent part of the aponeurosis covering the lachrymal sac. Insertion.—The upper and lower surfaces of the external tarsal ligament. Structure.—Both portions of the muscle are entirely composed of fleshy fibres. In addition to the origin of the orbital portion at the inner part of the orbit, it gives off processes from its circumference which blend with the adjacent muscles, such as the frontalis and the elevator of the upper lip. Moreover, some of the deeper fibres of the muscle decussate with the fibres of those adjacent muscles which lie under cover of the outer loops. The innermost fibres of the palpebral portion are shorter than the rest and, instead of extending across the whole length of the tarsi, they terminate upon their free margins, between the attachment of the eyelashes and the orifices of certain glands which line the inner surface of the tarsi. Nerve-supply.—The temporal and malar branches of the temporo-facial divi- sion of the facial nerve, which enter the outer part of the muscle upon its deep surface. * Action.—(1) The orbital portion by its contraction draws the soft parts around the opening of the orbit inwards and towards the palpebral aperture, raising a ridge which deepens the socket of the eye so as to protect the eyeball from injury, e.g. from the blow of a fist; (2) Its upper part will lower the eyebrow, as when the face is exposed to a strong light, or when the mind is wrapt in thought. (3)