612 THE VEINS The Anterior Superficial Vein of the Scalp and Face The anterior vein descends near the middle line, over the frontal bone, to the inner angle of the orbit; continues its course by the side of the nose to the cheek, which it crosses obliquely, to the anterior edge of the masseter muscle, and thence passes through the digastric triangle to the upper border of the hyoid bone, where it terminates in the internal jugular vein. In this course it is reinforced by numerous collateral veins, and gradually increases in size. It has, moreover, numerous communications with the deep veins. Fig. 385.—The Superficial Veins and Lymphatics of the Scalp, Face, and Neck. (Walsham.) Frontal vein Supraorbital vein Communication with ophthalmic vein Transverse nasal vei Angular vein Lateral nasal veins Transverse facia! vein Superior labial or coronary vein Anterior pterygoid or deep facial vein. Inferior coronary Inferior labial vein Anterior temporal vein Posterior temporal vein Submental Lingual vein - Superior thyroid vein Middle thyroid vein Sterno-mastoid - Anterior jugular vein Com munication between anterior jugular veins Platysma _ Parotid lymphatic glands j ^ py7 llj^^i Co'"mo" '''"'>"""' -■^----—Z^'JA / f' ',/ jj ■I"trr""l maxillary inn '^/s/f ;"T~ "r,''l"!,!l " "l : :,-^7/' / ,: i 1 - Ti'in/Joro-maxHhtry fin Posterior auricular vein Occipital lymphatic glands Sterno-mastoid lymphatic glands Communication between facial and external jugular veins Submaxillary lymphatic glands- Internal jugular vein Posterior external jugular vein External jugular vein This long continuous trunk vein is variously named according to the region in which it lies. Thus, as it descends over the frontal bone it is known as the frontal vein ; as it lies by the side of the nose it is called the angular vein ; whilst in the remainder of its course over the face and neck it is spoken of as the facial vein. (1) The frontal vein begins about the level of the coronal suture in a venous plexus which communicates with the anterior division of the temporal vein. Soon forming a single trunk, it passes vertically downwards over the frontal bone, a short distance from the middle line and parallel to its fellow of the opposite side, to the inner can thus of the eyelids, where it takes the name of the angular vein (fig. 385). Tributaries.—In its course it receives numerous tributaries from the forehead,