606 THE VEINS (b) A vein may run from the left innominate, or left superior intercostal vein, through the vestigial fold of the pericardium to the coronary sinus, the left innominate vein being itself nor- mal. This abnormality is similar in kind, but minor in degree, to the former, described under («). (2) Variations due to Persistence of the Left and Suppression of the Right Duet of Cuvier («) The right innominate vein may cross the arch of the aorta to join a vertical left innom- inate vein, and thus form a left superior vena cava, the normal right superior cava being absent. The arrangement of the azygos veins under this condition may be reversed, there being a left vena azygos major opening over the root of the left lung into the left superior cava, and an upper and lower right azygos vein arranged after the manner of the normal left azygos veins. This arrangement of the veins may occur independently of any general transposition of the viscera. (b) There are many other varieties, depending upon abnormalities in the normal development of the great veins from the Cuvierian ducts and from the primitive jugular and cardinal veins ; but these cannot be discussed here. THE AZYGOS VEINS The azygos veins (fig. 382) are three in number. They collect the blood returned from the eleven intercostal spaces on the right side, and from the seven or eight lower intercostal spaces on the left side. They lie on each side of the front of the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae, and establish a communication between the superior and inferior venae cava? through the ascending lumbar veins. The vena azygos major begins in the abdomen, where it may be looked upon as a continuation upwards of the ascending lumbar vein (page 633). It passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, runs up through the posterior mediastinum on the right side of the front of the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae as high as the fourth thoracic vertebra; then curves forwards over the root of the right lung, and opens into the superior vena cava immediately before the latter pierces the pericardium. Relations.—(1) In the abdomen, the vena azygos major lies to the right of the aorta and thoracic duct, under cover of the right crus of the diaphragm, upon the first, sometimes upon the second, lumbar vertebra. At this spot it receives the right subcostal vein, and is continued below into the ascending lumbar vein; or, if the lower part of this vein is small, it may appear to begin in one of the lumbar veins, or in the vena cava, or where the portion of the ascending lumbar vein which communicates with the renal is enlarged, in the renal vein. Through this intermediation of the ascending lumbar vein, a communication is established between the iliac veins and the vena azygos. In obstruction of the inferior vena cava much of the blood from the lower extremities and abdominal wall is returned by the vena azygos major and its continuation, the ascending lumbar vein, in the abdomen, to the vena cava superior. (See Ascending Lumbar Vein, page 633.) (2) At the aortic opening the vena azygos major lies to the right of the aorta and thoracic duct, between the crura of the diaphragm. (3) In the posterior mediastinum, as it courses upwards on the right side of the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae, the vena azygos major crosses in front of the lower right intercostal arteries, having on its left side the descending aorta and thoracic duct, in front the root of the right lung and lower down the pleura, and on its right side the right pleura and lung. (4) As it curls over the root of the right lung, the vena azygos major is in contact with the right bronchus, the pneumogastric nerve passing obliquely be- tween them (fig. 324). It usually contains an imperfect pair of valves at the spot where it turns for- wards from the fourth thoracic vertebra to arch over the root of the lung; and still more imperfect valves are found at varying intervals lower down the vein. Tributaries.—(1) The vena azygos minor; (2) the vena hemiazygos accessoria, or one or more of the left intercostal veins; (3) the loAver end of the lower superior intercostal vein of the left side (sometimes); (4) the lower right oesophageal veins; (5) a few right mediastinal veins; (6) the right bronchial vein; (7) the lower right