494 THE ARTERIES between the bone and dura mater, supplying both structures. It at first ascends for a short distance in a groove on the greater wing of the sphenoid, and then divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior branch passes upwards, in the groove on the greater wing of the sphenoid, on to the parietal bone at its anterior and inferior angle; at this spot the groove becomes deepened and often bridged over by a thin plate of bone, being converted for a quarter to half an inch or more into a distinct canal. The situation of the artery is here indicated on the exterior of the skull by a spot an inch and a half behind, and about an inch above, the external angular process of the orbit. The anterior branch is continued along the anterior border of the parietal bone nearly as far as the superior longitudinal sinus, and gives off in its course, but especially posteriorly, large branches which ramify in an upward and backward direction in grooves on the parietal bone (fig. 337). The posterior branch passes backwards over the squamous portion of the temporal bone; and thence on to the parietal bone, behind the anterior branch. Fig. 337.—The Middle Meningeal Artery within the Skull. BREGMA Tins branch and its collaterals extend upwards as far as the longitudinal sinus, and 1 lackwards as far as the lateral sinus. In addition to its terminal anterior, and terminal posterior branches, the middle meningeal gives off:—(a) Gasserian branches to the Gasserian ganglion and Meckel's space, (b) A petrosal branch, which enters the hiatus Fallopii in com- pany with the large superficial petrosal nerve and anastomoses with the terminal branch of the stylo-mastoid artery, (c) A tympanic branch, which enters the canal fur the tensor tympani, and supplies that muscle, (d) An orbital or lachrymal branch, which enters the orbit at the outermost part of the sphenoidal fissure, or sometimes through a minute foramen, just external to that fissure, and anastomoses with the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic, (c) Anastomotic or perforating branches which pierce the greater wing of the sphenoid bone, and anastomose with the deep temporal arteries. (4) The mandibular (inferior dental) artery (fig. 336), arising from the internal maxillary as it lies between the spheno-mandibular ligament and neck of the jaw, courses downwards to the mandibular foramen, which it enters in company