THE MUSCLES 348 2. ILIACUS The iliacus—named from its attachment to the ilium—is a thick, triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The upper surface of the ala of the sacrum; (2) the front of the ilio-lumbar, lumbo-sacral, and anterior sacro-iliac ligaments; (3) the upper and outer half of the venter of the ilium; (4) the origin of the upper tendon of the rectus femoris and the ilio-femoral ligament near the anterior inferior spine of the ilium. Insertion.—(1) The outer surface of the tendon of the psoas, through which it is attached to the back of the lesser trochanter of the femur; (2) the upper and back part of the shaft of the femur in a line about one inch (2-5 cm.) long leading downwards from the lesser trochanter. Structure.—Arising by fleshy fibres, the muscle converges in a fan-shape down- wards and inwards, and its fibres enter the outer surface of the tendon of the psoas muscle from about two inches (5 cm.) above Poupart's ligament to its insertion. The lowest fibres are also continued, still fleshy, into their insertion on the back part of the shaft of the femur. Nerve-supply.—From the lumbar plexus (through the second and third lumbar nerves) by the anterior crural nerve, which gives branches to its anterior surface about the middle of its inner border. Action.—Similar to that of the psoas, as a flexor of the thigh; and acting from the femur as a fixed point, it will draw forwards and flex the pelvis upon the thigh. Relations.—The iliac fascia in front separates it from the peritoneum and intestines. The profunda femoris artery and several nerves from the lumbar plexus lie upon it. On its inner side lies the psoas. After passing under Poupart's ligament, it is crossed by the sartorius, and behind lie the rectus femoris and the capsule of the hip-joint. Variations.—A small detached muscle occasionally arises from the anterior inferior spine, and is inserted into the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, or the ilio-femoral ligament. Psoas Parvus The psoas parvus—a small muscle, only occasionally present, named from its position in the loins and its small size—is fusiform and somewhat flattened. Origin.—The side of the intervertebral disc between the last thoracic and the first lumbar vertebra and the adjacent borders of the bodies of these vertebrae. Insertion.—The ilio-peetineal line. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the fibres converge and are inserted in a somewhat penniform manner into the back and inner surface of a tendon which appears about two inches below the origin of the muscle upon its outer and anterior aspect, and becomes free about the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra. The tendon, a narrow fibrous band, lies upon the inner aspect of the psoas magnus on the brim of the pelvis, and expands at its lower extremity to be attached along the ilio-pectineal line and the pectineal eminence. Nerve-supply.—By small filaments from the first nerve of the lumbar plexus. Action.—To flex the pelvis upon the thorax; or, taking the pelvis as a fixed point, it will flex the lower part of the thoracic spine as well as the lumbar spine upon the pelvis. It is a muscle which is well developed in some animals, having for its function the drawing forwards of the lower part of the pelvis, accompanied by the arching of the lumbar spine which is seen when they are running swiftly. Relations.—In front, the iliac fascia, peritoneum, ligamentum arcuatum internum, intestines, renal vessels, ureter, external iliac vessels, etc. Behind and externally, the psoas magnus. Iliac Fascia Investing the abdominal portion of the ilio-psoas is a strong membrane, called the iliac fascia, which is attached to the crest of the ilium externally, and inter- nally to the posterior part of the ilio-pectineal line which forms the brim of the pelvis.