THE SKELETON 58 the antrum is, as a rule, very uneven, due to prominences corresponding to the roots of the molar teeth. In most cases the bone separating the teeth from the antrum is very thin, and not rarely the roots project uncovered into it. The teeth which come into closest relationship with the antrum are the first and second molars, but the sockets of any of the teeth lodged in the maxilla may, under diseased conditions, communicate with it. Although, as a rule, the cavity of the antrum is single, yet specimens occasionally come to hand in which it is divided by bony septa into chambers, and it is far from uncommon to find it divided into recesses by bony processes. In many maxilla?, the roof of the antrum presents near its anterior aspect what appears to be a thick rib of bone; this is hollow and corresponds to the infraorbital canal. The most satisfactory method of studying the relation of the bones closing in the base of the antrum is to cut away the outer wall of the cavity (see fig. 80). Articulations.—The maxilla articulates with its fellow, and with the frontal, nasal, lachrymal, ethmoid, palate, vomer, malar and inferior turbinal bones. Occa- sionally it articulates with the greater wing, and less frequently with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. The muscles attached to it are mainly those known as muscles of expression:— Compressor naris. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Orbicularis oris. Levator labii superioris. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi. Masseter. Levator anguli oris. Inferior oblique. Depressor alae nasi. Buccinator. Internal pterygoid. Blood-supply.—The maxilla is a very vascular bone, and its arteries are nume- rous anjd large. They are derived from the infraorbital, alveolar, descending palatine, naso-palatine, ethmoidal, frontal, nasal, and facial vessels. Ossification.—The maxilla arises from four centres which are deposited in membrane. The various centres may be termed premaxillary, maxillary, malar, and pre- palatine. They arise about the eighth week of embryonic life, and fuse very rapidly. (a) The premaxillary nucleus gives rise to that portion of the bone which lodges the incisor teeth. It sends a narrow process upwards which forms part of the outer boundary of the anterior narial aperture. On the palatine aspect it furnishes a spiculum which surrounds the anterior and mesial aspect of Stenson's canal. The posterior limit is indicated up to the end of the first dentition by the maxillo-premaxillary suture. The greater part of this centre is formed in mem- brane, but the inner part subsequently invades the ethmo-vomerine cartilage. (6) The maxillary nucleus forms the nasal process, and the greater part of the body of the maxilla. (c) The malar centre gives origin to that portion of the bone lying external to the infraorbital groove. (rZ) The prepalatine centre gives rise to the nasal surface of the maxilla and the palatine process posterior to Stenson's canal. This portion is in shape similar to the palate bone. THE PALATE BONE The palate bone is rectangular in shape, and wedged between the maxilla and the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid. It has a horizontal and a vertical plate, a tuberosity, and two processes. The horizontal plate is smaller than the vertical; it is quadrilateral in shape. The upper surface forms the posterior part of the floor of the nasal fossa; the inferior surface completes the hard palate posteriorly, and presents near its pos- terior border a transverse ridge, which gives attachment to the tensor palati muscle. The anterior border is rough for articulation with the palatine process of the maxilla. The posterior border is free, curved, and sharp; it gives attachment to