THE HEART 929 Openings.—Of the three chief openings, that of the superior cava appears at the upper and back part of the cavity; whilst at the lower and back part is the opening of the inferior cava. The right auriculo-ventricular opening, which leads into the ventricle, is placed below and in front; whilst above and in front the cavity is prolonged into the auricular appendix. The orifice of the coronary sinus lies between the lower caval and auriculo- ventricular openings. Besides these there are about a score of small scattered orifices, known as the foramina Thebesii. The superior caval opening is valveless, and is directed downwards and for- wards towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. The inferior caval opening is somewhat larger, and is directed upwards and inwards. It is usually guarded by a semilunar fold, the Eustachian valve, which is much larger in foetal life, and which then serves to direct the current of blood Fig. 548.—Transverse Section passing through the Auricles of the Heart, showing the Auriculo-ventricular Orifices and the Semilunar Valves of the Pulmonary Artery and Aorta. Seen from above. (The portions of the auricles removed are seen in Fig. 552.) Right auriculo-ventricular orifice and tricuspid valve Left auriculo-ventricular orifice and mitral valve through a foramen in the wall dividing the two auricles. It is attached by its convex margin to the front and left side of the vein, its free concave edge looking upwards and to the right. The left cornu or horn of the crescent is continuous with the anterior edge of the annulus ovalis, whilst the right horn is lost on the auricular wall. The Eustachian valve contains interlacing muscular fibres; it is often very incomplete and sometimes perforated. The coronary sinus returns the blood from the heart substance, and is guarded by a semilunar or sometimes double valve, known as the coronary valve, or valve of Thebesius. Like the Eustachian, it is formed of a fold of the endocardium, and serves to direct the blood current, but does not prevent regurgitation. It is sometimes perforated, and occasionally presents the most delicate lacework. The foramina Thebesii.—The greater number of these small orifices end blindly, but the rest are the terminations of minute veins from the muscular sub- stance (venae minimse cordis). One of these, more constant than the others, 59