GENITO-URINARY SYSTEM 1215 tubules, and it is homologous with the organ of Giraldes in the male. It cannot always be recognised, and as a rule it is only present during childhood, disappear- ing before adult life is attained. The duct of Gartner.—The duct of Gartner is a small tube, blind at both extremities, which is occasionally found at the side of the neck of the uterus and the upper part of the vagina. It represents a section of the lower part of the Wolffian duct, and corresponds with a portion of the vas deferens of the male. MALE The hydatids of Morgagni.—Two hydatids of Morgagni are met with in the male—the pedunculated and the sessile. The former is very inconstant; when present it is an oval or pyriform vesicle, filled with clear fluid, which is attached by a slender pedicle to the globus major of the epididymis. It corresponds with the hydatid of Morgagni met with in the female, and it is the remnant of one of the upper Wolffian tubules. The sessile hydatid is more frequently present. It is also an ovoid vesicle, which is attached by its small end to either the upper extremity of the testicle or to the groove between the testicle and the globus major. It corresponds with the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube in the female, for it is a remnant of the upper end of the Mullerian duct from which the Fallopian tube is developed. The organ of Giraldes, or parepididymis.—This organ is a remnant of some of the lower Wolffian tubules, and it corresponds with the parovarium of the female. It lies in front of the lower part of the spermatic cord, above the epidid- ymis, and either behind the upper part of the tunica vaginalis or just above it. The tubules of which it consists are small, yellowish in colour, and they are coiled together, forming a small body, which is from 5 to 14 mm. in diameter of an inch). Vasa aberrantia.—When the tube of the epididymis is uncoiled, several blind diverticula are found connected with it. They constitute the vasa aberrantia, and the largest of them, which is usually found in the region of the globus minor, is known as the vas aberrans of Haller. It varies in length from 4 to 37 cm. (1J to 15 inches), and it is coiled into the form of a small mass 2 to 6 cm. (f to 3 inches) long, which lies between the body of the epididymis and the vas deferens. The exact significance of the vasa aberrantia is not certain, but they are probably the remains of some of the Wolffian tubules. The uterUs masculinus, or sinus pocularis.—The uterus masculinus lies in the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra, where it opens, immediately in front of the highest point of the verumontanum, by an oval opening. It is a small cavity, 6 to 12 mm. (J to J of an inch) long, narrow at its opening into the urethra, but it widens considerably towards its blind extremity. It lies behind the middle lobe of the prostate gland and between the lateral lobes and the common ejaculatory ducts. It is a remnant of the lower parts of the Mullerian ducts, from which the uterus, vagina, and the Fallopian tubes are developed in the female, and it corresponds, therefore, with the vagina, and possibly with the uterus of the female. INTEGUMENT Hypertrichosis.—The condition of excessive hairiness to which the term hypertrichosis is applied only occurs occasionally, and it may be due either to the excessive development of the secondary hairy covering which develops after birth,— hypertrichosis vera,—or to the persistence and growth of the woolly covering or lanugo which is formed over the surface of the body during intrauterine life, and which is usually cast off to make way for the secondary hairs. This latter condition is called pseudohypertrichosis lanuginosa. Supernumerary breasts and teats.—The occurrence of additional teats— polythely—and additional mamma?—polymasty—is by no means uncommon, the percentage of cases of additional mammary structures varying in different districts from one-half to thirty per cent.