THE SKELETON 70 The obelion, a little anterior to the lambda, is usually indicated by a median or two lateral foramina. It indicates the spot where the sagittal suture first suffers obliteration. Viewed from behind, the skull appears irregularly globular; the inferior part of its circumference being somewhat flattened. The limits of the flattened portion are indicated by the mastoid processes. The centre is occupied by the occipital protuberance ; this, with the occipital crest and the three pairs of nuchal lines, give to the lower half a rough and uneven appearance. The sutures in this view are the terminations of the sagittal, lamb- doidal and, when present, the occipital suture. The occipital point (fig. 90) is the most posterior part of the skull, and is exactly opposite the ophryon. The inion corresponds to the external occipital protuberance. The lateral aspect of the skull is very uneven; it presents three recesses or fossae. Its irregularity is increased by the zygoma. The temporal fossa, semilunar in shape, is limited above by the superior temporal ridge, and below by the zygoma. The temporal ridge begins at the external angular process of the frontal bone, and curves upwards and backwards to cross the frontal and parietal bones; it then descends along the mastoid portion of the temporal bone to become continuous with the upper border of the zygoma. In many skulls this ridge is double. The lower ridge gives origin to the temporal muscle. The upper is the least constant; it diverges from the lower ridge as it approaches the coronal suture. At the middle of the parietal bone the two ridges are often ten millimetres apart. This ridge gives attachment to the temporal fascia. The fossa is almost entirely occupied by the temporal muscle. The zygomatic fossa is limited anteriorly by the zygomatic surface of the maxilla; internally by the external pterygoid plate; externally by the zygomatic arch and the ramus of the mandible; and posteriorly by a line drawn from the foramen spinosum to the zygomatic tubercle. The outer surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid internal to the pterygoid ridge and a small piece of the squamosal form part of the upper boundary of the fossa. The chief objects of interest in this region are:—The spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary fissures, the pterygoid ridge on the sphenoidal wing, the foramen ovale, foramen spinosum, and the articular eminence of the squamosal. The spheno-maxillary fissure is horizontal in position, and lies between the orbital border of the maxilla and the greater wing of the sphenoid; externally it is completed usually by the malar; frequently the sphenoid will join the maxilla and exclude the malar bone from the fissure; internally it is terminated by the zygo- matic surface of the orbital process of the palate bone. Through this fissure the orbital, spheno-maxillary, and zygomatic fossae communicate. The zygomatic fossa lodges the temporal, external pterygoid, and internal pterygoid muscles. The pterygo-maxillary fissure forms a right angle with the preceding. It is situated between the maxilla and the anterior border of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. At its lower angle the external pterygoid plate occasionally articulates with the maxilla. The pterygo-maxillary fissure leads from the zygomatic fossa directly into the spheno-maxillary fossa, a small space shaped like an inverted pyramid, situated between the maxilla and the roots of the pterygoid processes. The roof of this fossa is formed by the under surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid. The anterior boundaries are a small portion of the zygomatic surface of the maxilla and the orbital process of the palate; posteriorly it has the roots of the pterygoid processes, and the lower ^iart of the orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid; and internally the vertical plate of the palate bone. The apex of the pyramid leads into the posterior palatine canal. The inner wall presents the spheno-palatine foramen which leads into the nasal fossa. The posterior wall has three openings in the following order, from without inwards, and from above downwards: the foramen rotundum, Vidian canal, and pterygo-palatine canal. Anteriorly it communicates with the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure ; and externally the pterygo-maxillary fissure leads into the zygomatic fossa.