907 THE LARYNX The crico-arytenoid joints possess a synovial membrane enveloped in a thin and moderately loose capsule, strengthened posteriorly by a band passing between the cricoid and the inner and back part of the arytenoid—the posterior crico- arytenoid ligament; and internally by the interarytenoid band, which is occa- sionally ligamentous—the crico-arytenoid ligament. The cricoid articular surface is oval, convex, and oblique, with its long axis passing from behind, forwards, and outwards. The opposed articular surface on the base of the arytenoid is also oval, but it is concave with its long axis passing from before backwards. It follows that the two surfaces never completely cover each other at any one time. The arytenoid rotates on a vertical axis near to and parallel with its inner surface, and it also glides forwards and inwards, or in an opposite direction. These movements are associated—the gliding forwards and inwards with the inward rotation, and the gliding outwards and backwards with the outward rotation. Fig. 528.—Side View of the Muscles and Ligaments of the Larynx. Cut The Muscles.—The muscles are divisible into an extrinsic group, passing between the larynx and parts beyond; and an intrinsic group, belonging entirely to the organ itself. The extrinsic muscles are the sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, stylo- and palato- pharyngei, and the inferior constrictors of the pharynx. It should be noted that the muscles which fix the hyoid bone, and also those which close the lower jaw, assist the action of the above mentioned. The intrinsic muscles.—The crico-thyroid is attached below to the front and side of the cricoid cartilage, and above to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. The lower fibres, which are horizontal and often distinct, pass to the front border of its inferior cornu, and act by pulling the cricoid directly backwards, whilst the spreading fibres which form the rest of the muscle swing the cricoid between the crico-thyroid joints, pulling it upwards as well as backwards. Both portions of the muscle make tense the vocal cords, and are supplied by the external laryngeal nerve. It is overlapped laterally by the sterno-thyroid, having beneath it a small