THE MUSCLES 43G Upon the deep surface lies the mucous membrane of the mouth, separated from the muscular fibres by the mucous and small salivary glands, together with the superior and inferior coronary arteries. Transverse Muscles of the Mouth This group comprises only the buccinator. BUCCINATOR The buccinator—named from its action, as it is the muscle used by the trumpeter {buccinator)—is a somewhat oval sheet of muscular fibre, distinct in its origin, but blending in front with the orbicularis oris. It forms a part of the tbird stratum of the facial muscles. Origin.—(1) The outer surface of the alveolar process of the maxilla above the molar teeth; (2) the anterior border of the pterygo-maxillary ligament, a fibrous band or raphe extending from the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone to the back of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the mandible; (3) the outer surface of the alveolar process of the mandible below the molar teeth. Insertion.—The outer part of the orbicularis oris. Structure.—It rises by fleshy fibres which run forwards in four sets. The upper set pass directly into the facial portion of the orbicularis oris which belongs to the upper lip; the next pass downwards and forwards to that which belongs to the lower lip; the third upwards and forwards, decussating with the second set to join the lower part of the orbicularis in the upper lip. Finally, a fourth set which pass from the mandible to the lower part of the facial portion of the orbicularis oris belonging to the lower lip. Nerve-supply.—The buccal branch of the lower division of the facial, which sends filaments into the back part of its outer surface; it is also pierced by the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve on its way to supply the mucous membrane lining the cheek. Action.—(1) To draw outwards the corner of the mouth, widening it and pressing the lips against the teeth; (2) to diminish the concavity of the cheek, compressing the air contained in it, as in using the blowpipe or playing the cornet; or forcing inwards the food when, in mastication, any portion of it has escaped into that part of the mouth which is external to the bicuspids and molar teeth. Relations.—Superficially, the skin, subcutaneous fat, Stenson's duct, the zygo- maticus major, risorius, a large mass of fat (the buccal fat-pad) which separates the buccinator from the masseter, and a layer of deep fascia continuous with that which covers the upper part of the pharynx; deeply, the mucous membrane of the mouth. The upper part of the muscle is perforated by Stenson's duct. The buccinator is almost continuous behind with the superior constrictor, from which it is only separated by the tendinous intersection of the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Angular Muscles of the Mouth The angular series are four in number: viz. the zygomaticus major, levator anguli oris, risorius, and depressor anguli oris. Two descend to the corner of the mouth obliquely from above, one runs almost horizontally forwards, and one ascends from below. They blend at the corner of the mouth, and form there a thick muscular mass, behind which is a depression filled up with the fat covering the buccinator. In a lean face this depression is often very conspicuous, and in some faces its position is indicated by a dimple when the zygomaticus major contracts.