177 VARIOUS ARTICULA TIOXS eluding them, a? well as the cushions or pad? of fatty tissue situate within and the tendons which perforate the fibrous capsule, from the articular cavity. It is a thin delicate membrane, frequently forming folds and fringes which project into the cavity of the joint; or, as in the knee, stretches across the cavity, forming a so- called synovial ligament. In these folds are often found pads of fatty tissue, which fill up interstices, and form soft cushions between the contiguous bones. Some- times these fringes become villous and pedunculated, and cause pain on movement of the joints. They contain fibro-fatty tissue, with an isolated cartilage cell or two. The synovial membrane is well supplied with blood, especially near the margins of the articular cartilages and in the fringes. It secretes a thick glairy fluid like white of egg, called synovia, which lubricates the joint. Another variety of synovial membrane is seen in the bursa?, which are interposed between various moving surfaces. In some instances bursa? in the neighbourhood of a joint may communi- cate with the synovial cavity of that joint. THE VARIOUS KIXDS OF ARTICULATIONS There are three chief varieties of joints—viz., synarthrodia!, or immovable; amphiarthrodial, or yielding; and diarthrodial. or movable joints. Synarthrosis is the term applied to all immovable joints in which the apposed surfaces or edges of the bones are in direct contact, as in the face bones, except the mandible, and all those of the skull; or where bone and cartilage are in immediate union, as in the case of the first rib and the sternum, and the costal cartilages and the ribs. The unions of the bones of the skull and face are usually called sutures, of which there are three chief varieties — (1) True sutures, where the edges of bones are firmly implanted into one another by means of projecting processes, as in the sagittal, lambdoid, and coronal sutures. (*2) False sutures, where the rough edges of the bones are in simple contact without interlocking, as in the intermaxillary suture; or where they overlap one another, as in the squamous suture. (3) Grooved sutures, where the edge or plate of one bone is received into a corresponding groove in the other, as in the rostrum of the sphenoid and vomer, or vomer and palatine processes of the maxillae, and the horizontal plates of the palate bones. Amphiarthrosis is the term applied to mixed joints which permit of slight movements, the opposed bony surfaces being firmly united by a plate or disc of fibro-cartilage. There is sometimes a partial synovial membrane. Examples are seen in the spine, sacro-iliac, and pubic joints. Diarthrosis is the term applied to all movable joints in which the bones have smooth cartilage-covered surfaces, lubricated by synovia, and bound together by more or less perfect capsules. This class is subdivided into the following varieties:— 1. Enarthrosis, or ball-and-socket joint, where the more or less spherical head of one bone is adjusted to a socket on the other, as in the hip- and shoulder-joints. They are the most movable of all articulations, combining angular movements in all directions with axial rotation. 2. Condylarthrosis, or an articulation having on one bone an elongated surface called '' condyle '' and on the other a glenoid surface. They permit all the move- ments of a ball-and-socket joint except axial rotation. 3. Ginglvmus, trochlearthrosis. or hinge-joint, where there is a pulley or troch- lea on one bone and a surface adapted for moving round it on the other. The movement is principally in two directions, namely, flexion and extension, though some slight amount of lateral movement is also permitted. The most perfect 12