THE TEMPORAL BOXES 35 THE TEMPORAL BOXES The adult temporal bone consists of three parts, so firmly united as to afford little trace of its complex origin. At birth the three parts are easily separable as the squamosal, petrosal, and tympanic. The squamosal resembles a large scale; it is attached at right angles to the petrosal, and forms part of the side wall of the skull. It is thin, and in places translucent. The outer surface is smooth and forms part of the temporal fossa; it presents one, and occasionally two nearly vertical grooves for the deep temporal arteries. A ridge of bone, the supra-mastoid crest, runs immediately above the external auditory meatus, and is continued onwards to the zygoma. The zygoma is a narrow projecting bar of bone, jutting forwards and lying parallel with the squamosal. It has two surfaces and two borders. The outer surface is subcutaneous; the inner looks towards the temporal fossa. The inner surface and lower border give origin to the masseter muscle. The upper border receives the temporal fascia. The tip of the zygoma is serrated for articulation with the malar. Posteriorly, the lower border ends in a tubercle, which is the meeting point of two ridges; of these, the anterior passes inwards at right angles to the zygoma, and expands into the articular eminence which serves as an Fiu. 43.—The Left Temporal Boxe. (Outer view.) TEMPORAL FOSSA POST-GLENOID TUBERCLE AUOITORY MEATUS AURICULAR FISSURE articular facet for the condyle of the mandible when the mouth is opened. The second ridge runs backwards and forms the upper boundary of the glenoid fossa, and curving downwards ends in a tubercle, the post-glenoid tubercle, immediately anterior to the Glaserian fissure. The oval deep depression between these ridges is the glenoid fossa, which receives the condyle of the mandible. This fossa is limited posteriorly by the Glaserian fissure. The inner surface of the squamosal presents furrows for the convolutions of the brain and grooves for the middle meningeal arteries. The line of union between the squamosal and petrosal is sometimes indicated by a persistent petro-squamosal suture. Rarely the two portions remain permanently separate. The superior border of the squamosal is thin, and bevelled on the cerebral surface where it overlaps the parietal; anteriorly it is serrated for the posterior border of the greater wing of the sphenoid. Posteriorly it joins the rough serrated margin of the petrosal to form the parietal notch. The petrosal element is a four-sided pyramid of very dense bone; its base is formed by the mastoid process; the apex is rough and forms part of the boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. Two sides of the pyramid project into the cranial cavity, of which one forms the posterior boundary of the middle fossa, and the other the anterior boundary of the posterior fossa of the cranium. Of the two remaining surfaces, one appears on the under surface of the skull, and the fourth constitutes the inner wall of the recess called the tympanum.