651 DEEP LYMPHATICS OF HEAD AND NECK integuments of the neck and from the external ear. Their efferent vessels open into the deep chain of cervical glands. II. THE DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE HEAD AND NECK A. The Deep Lymphatic Vessels of the Head and Neck The deep lymphatic vessels of the head and neck may be divided into the lymphatics of the cranium, the orbit, the temporal and zygomatic fossae, the nose, the mouth and tongue, the pharynx, the larynx, the upper part of the oesophagus and trachea, and the thyroid body. They roughly follow the course of the deep arteries, and terminate in the deep cervical chain of lymphatic glands which accompany the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein. 1. The lymphatics from the interior of the cranium are divided into the Fig. 398a.—Diagram of the Superficial Lymphatic Vessels and Glands of the Head and Neck. (After Drawing by Dr. Francis E. Sherwood.) meningeal and the cerebral. The meningeal accompany the meningeal arteries through the various foramina in the base of the skull, and terminate in the deep cervical chain. The cerebral lymphatics pass in like manner with the cerebral vessels (the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, and the internal jugular vein), through the corresponding foramina in the base of the skull, and join the deep lymphatic chain. The origin of the cerebral lymphatics and the lymphatics from the choroid plexus are described in the Anatomy of the Brain (page 678). 2. The lymphatics of the orbit pass with the infraorbital vein into the spheno- maxillary fossa, and thence with the internal maxillary vein into the internal maxillary and deep parotid glands. (For description of the lymphatics of the eye- ball, see page 852.) 3. The lymphatics from the temporal and zygomatic fossae run with the arteries in these situations, and, after passing through the internal maxillary glands, join the deep cervical chain. 4. The lymphatics from the interior of the nose accompany the arteries supplying that cavity, and terminate, in part in the lymphatics of the pharynx, but chiefly in the deep cervical chain. They communicate, through the lymphatic