1142 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY (5) extra-peritoneal fatty tissue; (6) peritoneum. If the hernia come through above the umbilicus, or just to one side, the coverings will be much the same; but, instead of the layer from the umbilical scar, there will be one from the linea alba. THE BACK Median furrow.—This is more or less marked according to the muscular devel- opment, lying between the trapezii and complexi, in the cervical region, and the erectores spinse lower down. The lower end of the furrow corresponds to the interval between the spines of the last lumbar and the first sacral vertebrae (Holden). Vertebral spines.—Those of the upper cervical region are scarcely to be made out even by deep pressure. That of the axis may be detected in a thin subject. Over the spines of the middle three cervical vertebras is normally a hollow, owing to these spines receding from the surface to allow of free extension of the neck. The seventh cervical is prominent, as its name denotes. Between the skull and atlas, or between the atlas and axis, a sharp-pointed instrument might penetrate, especially in flexion of the neck. Of the thoracic spines, the first is the most prominent; the third should be noted as on a level with the inner end of the scapular spine, and in some cases with the bifurcation of the trachea; that of the seventh with the lower angle of the scapula; that of the twelfth with the lowest part of the trapezius and the head of the twelfth rib. The obliquity and overlapping of the thoracic spines is to be remembered. Of the lumbar spines, the most important are the second, which corresponds to the termination of the cord, and that of the fourth, which marks the highest part of the iliac crests and the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta. The lumbar spines project horizontally, and correspond with the vertebral bodies. The third is a little above the umbilicus. Owing to the obliquity of the thoracic spines, most of them do not tally with the heads of the corresponding ribs. Thus, the spine of the second corresponds with the head of the third rib; the spine of the third with the head of the fourth rib; and so on till we come to the eleventh and twelfth vertebra?, which do tally with their corresponding ribs ( Holden). The lower ribs may be felt outside the erector spina?, but, in counting them from below, it must be remembered, as pointed out by Holl, that in quite a considerable percentage the last rib is so abnormally short that it does not reach as far as the outer border of the sacro-lumbalis; or so rudimentary as to more resemble a transverse process. In these cases the lower end of the pleura may pass from the lower part of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, almost horizontally to the lower edge of the eleventh rib. Muscles.—The student will remember the great number and complexity and the numerous tendons of the muscles which run up on either side of the spine; the firmness and inextensibility of their sheaths; the large amount of cellular tissue between them; and the fact that towards the nape of the neck these muscles lie exposed instead of being protected in gutters, as is the case below: all these anatomical points explain the extreme painfulness and obstinacy of sprains here. Trapezius.—To map out this muscle, the arm should be raised to a right angle with the spine. The external occipital protuberance should be dotted in, and the superior nuchal line passing out from this; below, the twelfth thoracic spine should be marked; and externally, the outer third of the clavicle and the commencement of the scapular spine. Then a line should be drawn from the protuberance verti- cally downwards to the twelfth thoracic spine; a second from about the middle of