THE SKELETON 24 cess and the neck of the rib enclose an arterial foramen, the costo-transverse. In the cervical region this rib, or costal element, and the transverse process are fused together, but the conjoint process thus formed is pierced by the costo-transverse foramen. The compound nature of tbe process is indicated by the fact that the anterior or costal processes in the lower cervical vertebrae arise from additional centres and occasionally retain their independence as cervical ribs. These processes in Sauropsida (birds and reptiles) are represented by free ribs. In the lumbar region, the compound nature of the transverse process is further marked. The true transverse process is greatly suppressed, and its extremity is indicated by the accessory tubercle. Anterior to this in the adult vertebra a group of holes represents the costo-transverse foramen, and the portion in front of this is the costal element. Occasionally it will persist as an independent ossicle, the lumbar rib. In the sacral series the costal elements are peculiarly modified in the first three vertebrae to form piers of bone for articulation with the ilium. The costo-transverse foramina are completely obscured. In rare instances the first sacral vertebra will articulate with the ilium on one side, but remain free on the other. Under such conditions the free process exactly resembles the elongated transverse process of a lumbar vertebra. The first three sacral vertebrfe which develop a costal process (rib) for articulation with the ilium are true sacral vertebrae. Those ankylosed below these are pseudo-sacral. A glance at fig. 29 will show the homology of the various parts of a vertebra from the cervical, thoracic, lumbar and sacral regions. The mammillary processes are vestiges of the greatly elongated articular processes of such mammals as the dog, armadillo, &c. THE BONES OF THE SKULL The skeleton of the head is called the skull: it contains, in the adult, twenty- nine separate bones. For descriptive purposes they are divided in two groups : those of the skull proper, and the appendicular elements. I. The Skull f Occipital. (a) Basilar Bones J Sphenoid. Temporals. (ft) Roof Bones IParietals. Frontal. Epipterics. (c) Nasal Region (rf) Facial Bones Maxillae. Palatines. Malars. f Ethmoid. Sphenoidal tur- binals. Turbinate. Lachrymals. Vomer. I Nasals. Mandible. Malleus. II. Appendicular Elements Incus. Stapes. Hvoid. StVloid. Internal pterygoid. The epipterics are not always separate in the adult skull: the styloid ankyloses with the temporal, and the internal pterygoid with the sphenoid. THE OCCIPITAL This bone forms the back and a portion of the base of the skull. At birth it consists of four distinct parts disposed around the foramen magnum (fig. 34). These, in the adult, fuse together and form a single bone, which ankyloses with, the sphenoid. The four parts of the occipital are—the squamo-occipital, two ex-occipitals, and a basi-occipital. The lines of union of these parts are easily distinguished even in the oldest skull.