992 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION Although the thoracic space might he almost obliterated, the lung would still remain entirely outside the cavity of the serous sac. It would be convenient then to speak of the undisturbed layer which still lined the thoracic space as the parietal layer, and the layer which had come in a passive way to invest the lung as the visceral layer.. In the abdomen a similar condition exists. Imagine all the viscera to have vanished from the abdominal cavity. A great space would exist, bounded above by the diaphragm, below by the pelvic floor, and in front and behind by the abdominal parietes. This space would be evenly lined by the peritoneum in the form of a simple closed sac. As the viscera reappeared they would emerge, as it were, from the posterior wall of the belly, and would project into the cavity of the abdomen. In so doing they would push before them the peritoneum lining the posterior wall of the cavity, and would each in turn become invested by the displaced membrane. All the abdominal viscera are outside the peritoneal cavity, although they are obviously within the abdominal space. The peritoneal sac remains entirely empty, and its wall, with the exception of the Fallopian orifices, is unbroken. That part of the simple sac which lines the anterior abdominal parietes is practically the only part which retains its original connections undisturbed. One main function of a serous membrane is to minimise the effects of friction. Those viscera which are exposed to most movement, such as the small intestines, Fig. 592.—Diagram of the Primitive Alimentary Canal. (A : a indicates the vitello-iutestinal duct; b points to the future position of the caecum.) are the most completely invested by the smooth membrane; those which remain fixed, such as the kidney, are only casually invested. The movements of the viscera in respiration, the alteration in shape and position which will occur in such organs as the stomach and bladder, are provided for by the peritoneum in such a manner that these movements are practically without friction. The viscera contained in the abdomen are not only numerous, but they are of very complex outline for the most part, and they are disposed in a manner which tends to greatly confuse their relations to one another. A bare description of the peritoneum, as it is met with in the human subject, must needs be intricate and complicated, and if considered without reference to more primitive and simpler conditions is almost inexplicable. The description may be followed, but it needs interpretation, and no account of this membrane can be considered to be satisfactory unless it be rendered evident how the complex arrangement has come about, and unless the student base his conceptions upon the simple and rudimentary disposition which an elaborate development of parts and a remarkable specialisation of structure have rendered intricate and confusing. The readiest idea of the disposition of the peritoneum is to be derived from a study of the development and most rudimentary forms of that membrane. Such a study is founded upon an examination of the human embryo at various periods, and of the peritoneum in the mammalia and lower animals.