115 THE HUMERUS fuse to form the acromion, and join the spine at the twentieth year. This union of the acromion and spine may be fibrous, hence the acromion is often found separate in macerated specimens. The cartilage along the vertebral border ossifies from two centres: one in the middle, and one at the posterior inferior angle. A thin scale may occasionally be detected at the tip of the glenoid fossa. Morphology.—It is impossible to comprehend the significance of the scapular nuclei without considering briefly the morphology of the shoulder (pectoral) girdle. In its most generalised form the shoulder girdle consists of cartilage, which is disposed in three parts. Of these, a dorsal segment represents the scapula and a ventral bar, reaching to the sternum, represents the coracoid. The meeting place of the coracoid and scapula is the glenoid fossa. Anterior to the coracoid there is Fig. 122.—Ossification of the Scapula. • The Scapula at the third year, showing the coracoid element. (Anterior view.) The Scapula at birth. (Anterior view.) a third piece, more or less parallel with the coracoid, named the pre-coracoid. The human shoulder girdle is modified from the type form, mainly in the suppression of the pre-coracoid and, in part, of the coracoid. The suppression is brought about by the clavicle, which commences to ossify in the membrane overlying the pre- coracoid ; it then invades and replaces the cartilage. The scapular end of the coracoid ossifies and becomes the coracoid process of the scapula; the ventral end degenerates to form the costo-coracoid ligament, which lies in the free border of the membrane of that name. The dorsal cartilage ossifies and becomes the scapula; the large tract of cartilage on the vertebral border of the young scapula represents the large suprascapular cartilage of batrachians. The suprascapular notch indicates the line of union of scapular and coracoid elements. In the embryo the notch is bridged over by cartilage, which may ossify or become ligament. THE HUMERUS The humerus is the longest bone of the upper limb. Its upper extremity presents a hemispherical surface covered with cartilage, and known as the head. The head articulates with the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and is directed upwards, inwards, and backwards. Below the articular surface, the bone is rough and con- stricted, constituting the anatomical neck. To the outer side of the head are tAvo tuberosities, separated by the bicipital groove. The greater tuberosity is the