915 BRONCHI—THYROID GLAND THE BRONCHI The right bronchus (fig. 536), from its commencement to the origin of its first branch, is about one inch in length (25 mm.). It is shorter and wider than the left, and in direction more horizontal in its passage to the root of the lung. Relations.—The vena azygos major arches above it from behind to end in the superior vena cava, which latter is placed anteriorly. The right pulmonary artery is at first below, and then in front of it. The left bronchus is about two inches in length (50 mm.) outside of the lung. It is more oblique, longer, and narrower than the right. Relations.—It lies beneath the arch of the aorta, and rests upon the oesoph- agus and the descending aorta. The left pulmonary artery lies in front of it. On looking down the trachea the dividing ridge between the two bronchial orifices is seen to be on the left of the middle line, more of the right orifice for this reason being visible. This explains the fact that foreign bodies entering the trachea most commonly become lodged in the right bronchus. Above the point where it is crossed by the pulmonary artery the right bronchus gives off an eparterial branch to the upper lobe of the right lung. Below the points where they are crossed by the pulmonary arteries, in the substance of the lungs, both bronchi give off two series of hyparterial branches, lateral and dorsal, which rise alternately. The dorsal branches pass towards the posterior borders of the lungs, and the lateral branches curve outwards and forwards towards the anterior borders. The first lateral branch on the right side supplies the middle lobe, and the first lateral branch on the left side the upper lobe, all the remaining hyparterial branches are distributed to the lower lobe. In addition to the two main sets of hyparterial branches a number of small accessory bronchi arise from the antero- lateral aspect of each stem bronchus; of these one which rises on the right side a short distance below the level of the first dorsal bronchus is called the cardiac bronchus, because in some mammals it supplies a special lobe of the right lung which lies below and posterior to the heart. This small bronchus is the fourth branch from the right stem bronchus. As the pulmonary artery passes downwards in the lung it lies on the postero- external aspect of the stem bronchus between the lateral and dorsal branches, and the pulmonary vein is situated on the opposite side of the tube. THE THYROID BODY OR GLAND The thyroid body is of a reddish colour, and is classed amongst the ductless glands. It consists of two lateral lobes, and a connecting isthmus which unites them below. The gland is convex and rounded on its outer surface, but deeply it is moulded to the parts which it overlies. It commonly weighs from one to two ounces, but is larger in the female, and is often increased in size during menstruation. The lateral lobes are pyriform in shape, with their broad ends below, and measures about two inches (50 mm.) in length, three-quarters of an inch (18 mm.) in breadth, and about an inch (25 mm.) in thickness near the middle. Relations of the lateral lobes.—The apex lies between the sterno-thyroid and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, the latter separating it from the hinder part of the ala of the thyroid cartilage and its inferior cornu. The base is rounded; it lies under cover of the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles at the level of the sixth ring of the trachea and about three-quarters of an inch (18 mm.) above the sternum. Some large radicles of the inferior thyroid vein issue from it. The exter- nal surface is convex, it is covered by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo- hyoid muscles, and it is overlapped by the anterior part of the sterno-mastoid. The internal surface is concave; it is moulded on the trachea. The posterior bor- der is thick, it is in contact with the carotid sheath, and is grooved by the common carotid artery; on the left side, it lies in front of the oesophagus, and on both sides in front of the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the inferior thyroid artery. The anterior border is thin, above it is in relation with the internal terminal branch of