846 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE by the outer sheath of the optic nerve, and partly also by the tissue surrounding the ciliary vessels and nerves. It becomes gradually thinner as it passes forwards, up to the line of insertion of the recti muscles, in front of which line it is again reinforced by their tendinous fibres becoming incorporated with it. In children the sclerotic is often so thin as to allow the underlying choroidal pigment to show through, appearing then of a bluish white. In the aged, again, it is sometimes yellowish. It always contains a few pigment cells, but these are in the deep layers, and only become visible external^ where the sclerotic is pierced by vessels and nerves going to the choroid. It is itself almost non-vascular, but quite at its anterior end a large venous sinus (canal of Schlemm) runs in its deeper layers circularly around the cornea. Just in front of this sinus, at the corneal limbus, the sclerotic merges into the cornea, its deep layers changing first, and finally the superficial ones. The cornea is thickest at its periphery, and becomes gradually thinner towards its centre; the curvature of its posterior is consequently greater than that of its anterior surface, but even the latter is more curved than the surface of the sclerotic. In the cornea proper, fibre-bundles are arranged so as to form a series of superposed lamella?, each of which is connected here and there to the adjacent ones by fibres passing from one to the other, so that they can only be torn apart with difficulty. The corneal lymph-spaces communicate with one another by very fine canals, and thus not only is a thorough lymph-circulation provided for, but the protoplasm with which these spaces are partially occupied may be also regarded as continuous throughout. It contains no blood-vessels, with the excep- tion of a rich plexus at its extreme periphery, on which its nutrition is ultimately dependent. The most superficial part of the true cornea appears homogeneous, even when highly magnified (Bowman's membrane), though there is reason to believe that its structure only differs from that already described in the closeness of its fibrous texture; the two parts are certainly connected by fine fibres. Anteriorly, the cornea is covered by an extension "of the ocular conjunctiva, in the form of an epithelium several layers deep. Posteriorly, the cornea is lined by a firm, thin, glass-like layer (membrane of Descemet, posterior elastic lamina), distinct from the corneal tissue both anatomically and chemically. At the periphery this membrane breaks up into a number of fibres, which mainly arch over to join the base of the iris (ligamentum pectinatum iridis). The interstices between these fibres constitute spaces (spaces of Fontana) freely communicating with the aqueous chamber on the one hand, and indirectly with the canal of Schlemm on the other. Descemet's membrane is in turn lined by a single layer of flat cells, which are continuous peripherally with cells lining the spaces of Fontana and the anterior surface of the iris. The cornea is richly supplied with nerves, particularly in its most superficial layers. 2. The dark, middle, or vascular coat of the eye, generally known as the uveal tract, is formed by the iris, ciliary body, and choroid. It is closely applied to the sclerotic, but actually joins it only at the anterior and posterior limits of their course together, viz. at the scleral sulcus, and around the optic nerve entrance. In front of the sulcus the middle coat no longer lines the outer, being separated from it (i.e. the iris from the cornea) by a considerable space filled with fluid, called the anterior aqueous chamber. The uveal tract has two openings in it; a larger one in front, the pupil, and a smaller one behind, for the passage of the optic nerve. Its structure is that of a pigmented connective tissue, supporting numerous blood- vessels and containing many nerves and two deposits of smooth muscle-fibres. The choroid forms the posterior part of the uveal tract, and extends, with slowly diminishing thickness, forwards as far as the ora serrata. Its outer and inner surfaces are both formed by non-vascular layers; that covering the outer, the membrana suprachoroidea, is pigmented, arranged in several fine loose lamella?, and has been seen in our dissection; that covering the inner surface is a thin, trans- parent, homogeneous membrane, called the vitreous lamina of the choroid, or the membrane of Bruch. The intervening choroidal stroma is very rich in blood- vessels, which are of largest size next its outer surface, and become progressively smaller as we approach the vitreous lamina, next to which we find a layer of closely