n INTERCOSTAL NERVES—THORACIC NERVE 801 neous branch of the second intercostal nerve is called the intercosto-humeral nerve. It passes outwards across the axillary space, crosses the tendon of the ; latissimus dorsi and the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve to j reach the arm. It is distributed to the integument of the inner and posterior part of the arm in its upper two-thirds. Within the axilla it communicates with the lesser internal cutaneous nerve of the brachial plexus, and with the lateral cutane- ous branch of the third intercostal. The lateral cutaneous branch of the third intercostal divides into a small anterior and a large posterior branch. The ante- rior branch ends near the margin of the great pectoral muscle. The posterior ! branch communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve, and then turns round the posterior fold of the axilla, and, after giving a twig to the integument of the arm, ends in the skin covering the dorsum of the scapula. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax are the terminal branches of i the upper intercostal nerves. They pierce the pectoralis major in company with the perforating branches of the internal mammary artery. On reaching the surface of the muscle, they give off minute twigs, which supply the skin over the sternum, ! and then end in slender branches which are directed outwards to supply the skin i covering the greater part of the pectoralis major. Some twigs from the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves are distributed to the mammary gland. C. Lower intercostal nerves.—The seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and ! eleventh intercostal nerves, in the part of their course which lies between the ribs, present the same relations as the upper intercostal nerves. Leaving the intercos- tal spaces they pass behind, or in the last two spaces between the costal cartilages, and then forwards between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, where they anastomose together, in a plexiform manner. Piercing the posterior lamella of the internal oblique aponeurosis, they enter the sheath of the rectus abdominis; they supply the rectus muscle, pass through it, pierce the anterior part of its sheath and terminate as the anterior cutaneous nerves in the skin of the abdomen. Branches.—The lower intercostal nerves supply the external and internal intercostal muscles, the levatores costarum, the serratus posticus inferior, the inter- nal oblique, the transversalis, the rectus, and from one or more of them twigs are given to the costal fibres of the diaphragm. They also give off lateral cutaneous branches, by which the external oblique is supplied. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen are the continuation of the series of the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax. They divide into anterior and posterior branches, which pierce the external oblique. The anterior branches are directed forwards and somewhat downwards, and supply the integument cover- ing the anterior abdominal wall as far as the outer margin of the rectus. Each nerve gives off a muscular twig, which pierces the adjacent digitation of the exter- nal oblique muscle on its superficial surface. The posterior branches pass back- wards around the margin of the latissimus dorsi, and end in the skin of the outer part of the back. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen are the terminal branches of the lower intercostal nerves, and pierce the anterior part of the sheath of the rectus to supply the skin covering that muscle. These nerves are of small size, and sometimes divide before their emergence, so as to form a double series. D. Last thoracic nerve.—This nerve gives off a communicating twig to the first lumbar nerve, and then passes beneath the external arcuate ligament, and runs outwards below the twelfth rib across the front of the quadratus lumborum, accom- panied by the first lumbar artery. It pierces the posterior aponeurosis of the trans- versalis, and follows the curve of the abdominal wall between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. In the remainder of its course it resembles a lower intercostal nerve. After piercing the rectus, however, it supplies the pyramidalis 'Griffin). Its lateral cutaneous branch remains undivided, and represents the interior division of an ordinary lateral cutaneous branch. On account of its dis- :ribution, it is named the iliac branch. The iliac branch pierces the external oblique about three inches above the iliac crest, and is directed downwards, across he crest, a short distance behind the anterior superior spine. It ends in the ntegument covering the anterior part of the gluteal region.