LEVA TO RES COSTARUM 397 column. It will be also noticed that the front part of the external, and the back part of the internal intercostal sheets are thin and weak, so as to diminish this tendency towards an expiratory movement. It has been urged that both sets of intercostals cannot approximate the ribs, as in inspiration some of the intercostal spaces are seen to open out and become wider. To this it may be replied that, whatever happens in some of the spaces, it is certain that the general tendency is that of approximation of the ribs, and diminution of the intervals between them, as after a full inspiration the last rib is nearer to the first rib. Moreover, it does not always follow that because a muscle is lengthening it is not acting (e.g. such cases as that of the long head of the triceps when it is used in extending the elbow during the elevation of the arm). If when most of the ribs are being approximated it should happen that some of the spaces are found to be widened, the action of the muscle in these widened spaces will probably be to prevent a greater separation, and by steadying the lower ribs to enable the muscles which descend from them to act. When the lowest rib is fixed by the quadratus lumborum and other muscles, it is probable that the intercostals, at any rate those of the lower spaces, by approximating the lower ribs to the last rib, may act as muscles of expiration. The follow- ing are some of the arguments which may be adduced in support of the view that both sets of intercostals act together, and also that their action is usually inspiratory. 1. The advantage already mentioned, from their oblique decussation enabling them to approximate the ribs more completely and at the same time to elevate them directly Avhen they act in combination (e.g. the action of the external and internal oblique in approximating the last rib to the crest of the ilium). 2. Muscles supplied by the same nerve are rarely antagonistic. 3. In long-standing paralysis of the intercostals the sternum is depressed, the chest flattened, and kept in a permanent condition of exaggerated expiration. 4. Galvanism of the intercostals produces expansion of the chest. In Du- chenne's experiment he found that when he galvanised so slightly as only to affect the external intercostals, the inspiratory movement was small; but when he gal- vanised so strongly as to affect the nerve, and through the nerve the internal intercostals—as was known by the contraction of muscular fibre being felt between the cartilages of the ribs, in which situation the only fleshy fibres are those of the inner set—a strong inspiratory movement was produced. Fi'om the peculiar shape of the ribs and the mode of their articulation, their elevation is accompanied by a rotation of the arcs formed by them upon their chords so that their planes from a sloping attain an almost horizontal position. Hence the widening of the chest during inspiration, in addition to the increase of movement from before backwards due to the elevation of the tips of the ribs. 3. LEVATORES COSTARUM The levatores costarum (fig. 299)—named from their action, as elevators of the ribs—are twelve triangular sheets, which cover the back part of the inter- costal spaces, and are continuous with the fibres of the external intercostal muscles. Origin.—The tips of the transverse processes of the last cervical, and all the thoracic vertebra? except the last. Insertion.—The outer surface of the ribs from the tubercle to the angle. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres the muscle expands in a fan shape, and is attached to the next rib below. Frequently fibres pass over one rib and are inserted upon the next but one. Nerve-supply.—The intercostal nerves which send branches to their deep surfaces. Action.—To elevate the ribs in inspiration. Relations.—Superficially, the outer upward continuations of the erector spinse; deeply, the external intercostals, which are continuous with the outer border of the muscles.