765 FACIAL NERVE—AUDITORY NERVE inwards on the deep surface of the zygomatici and the levator labii superioris. Under cover of the latter muscle they communicate with the terminal branches of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, forming the infraorbital plexus ; thence twigs extend to the nose, and communicate with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. The infraorbital branch also forms communications with other branches of the facial, namely with the malar above and with the buccal below. It supplies the zygomatici, the levator labii superioris, the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the levator anguli oris, the pyramidalis nasi, the compressor nasi, and the depressor alse nasi. It also gives twigs to the buccinator and to the orbicularis oris. The CERVICO-FACIAL DIVISION of the facial nerve is directed forwards and downwards through the parotid gland, and, like the temporo-facial division, it crosses on the outer side of the external carotid artery. As it traverses the glandu- lar substance it communicates with the facial branches of the great auricular nerve. As above described, it terminates in three branches: the buccal, the supra-mandi- bular, and the infra-mandibular. (a) The buccal branch is of small size, and is the highest of the three branches of the cervico-facial division. It is placed between the infraorbital and supra- mandibular branches of the facial, and communicates with both these branches. It emerges from the parotid gland below Stenson's duct, and crosses the masseter muscle. In front of the anterior border of the masseter, it communicates with the long buccal branch of the fifth, and then breaks into twigs, which end in the buccinator and orbicularis oris. (6) The supra-mandibular branch, after escaping from the parotid gland, crosses the lower part of the masseter muscle, a little way above the angle of the lower jaw, and passes forwards, under cover of the risorius and the depressors of the lower lip, as far as the middle line. It communicates with the buccal and infra-mandibular branches of the facial, and with the mental branch of the man- dibular nerve. It supplies the risorius, the depressor anguli oris, the depressor labii inferioris, and the levator menti. (c) The infra-mandibular branch becomes superficial at the lower margin of the parotid gland, and runs obliquely downwards and forwards, under cover of the platysma, across the side and front of the neck. It forms one or more communi- cating loops, near its commencement, with the great auricular nerve, and longer loops, lower down, with the superficial cervical nerve. It supplies the platysma myoides. EIGHTH OR AUDITORY NERVE The auditory nerve appears at the lower border of the pons (superficial origin), immediately external to the facial nerve. It arises by two roots, a lateral and a mesial. These roots embrace the restiform body, the lateral root being external, and the mesial root internal to that body (fig. 450). The lateral root (superficial, dorsal, inferior, or posterior root) is continuous with the cochlear nerve, and is the true nerve of bearing; while the mesial root (deep, ventral, superior, or anterior root) is continued into the vestibular nerve, and is concerned in the maintenance of equilibrium. The nuclei in connection with these roots will be first described. The small-celled or chief nucleus is superficially placed in the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is largest in the region of the strise medullares, in which situation it appears in coronal sections as a triangular grey mass, which reaches the middle line. It extends forwards from this point as far as the abducens nucleus and backwards for about an equal distance. Both in front and behind it recedes from the middle line. The nerve-cells forming this nucleus are all of small size. The large-celled or Deiters' nucleus is placed close to the inner side of the restiform body. It is about the same length as the small-celled nucleus, but occupies a position deeper and further forwards than the latter. The cells of this nucleus are of large size, and are most numerous at the anterior part. It degene- rates after destruction of the upper cervical region of the cord or of the lateral lobe of the cerebellum of the same side, therefore it must have close associations with these parts, but it is probably unconnected with the auditory nerve.