THE HEART 931 ovalis. Beneath its upper margin a little valvular pouch may usually be noticed which leads into a small orifice passing into the left auricle. The tubercle of Lower—which is placed on the right of the cavity between the orifices of the two cavse—is well marked in some of the lower animals, but it is quite an insignificant eminence in man. The right ventricle forms the larger part of the heart in front, where it is convex; but below, where it rests upon the diaphragm, it is flattened. It forms the whole of the lower border (margo acutus) of the heart, but it does not reach the apex, which is formed entirely by the left ventricle. It lies behind the lower part of the body of the sternum and the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs of the left side. In form the ventricle is triangular, in section semilunar, and its walls are much thinner than those of the left ventricle. Its upper and left angle is continuous with the root of the pulmonary artery; and upon opening the cavity the two are seen to be continuous through a cone-shaped prolongation—the infundibulum or conus arteriosus. At the opposite angle there is a second and larger opening, leading from the right auricle, the auriculo-ventricular orifice. It lies below and to the right of the pulmonary orifice. The apex of the ventricle points to the left. Fig. 550.—Transverse Section through the Heart near its Apex, Showing the Rela- tive Thickness of its Muscular Walls, the Bulging of the Septum towards the Eight Ventricle, and the Shape of the Cavities. CAVITY OF LEFT VENTRICLE The two openings just named are guarded by valves and separated by a rounded muscular projection of the ventricular wall. The inner surface, or body, of the ventricle presents a somewhat complicated arrangement of muscular ridges, bands, and columns, which become smaller, more numerous, and more closely interlaced at the apex and near the margin, but which disappear in the infundibulum. These projections, or columnae carneae, are usually divided into three sets : (1) mere ridges; (2) bands attached to either end but elsewhere free; and (3) a third set, the musculi papillares, which need a more detailed description (fig. 549). A special band, the so-called moderator band, which is constant in the- sheep, is occasionally a well-marked structure in the human heart, stretching between its anterior and septal walls. The musculi papillares are attached by their broad end to the ventricular wall, and by their extremities to tendinous cords (chordae tendineae), which restrain and harmonise the action of the valves guarding the auriculo-ventricular opening. Three of these are larger and more constant than the rest: an anterior, connected with the front wall above the moderator band; a right, near the margin, which is also attached to the anterior wall; and a posterior, which arises from the septum. The septal wall of the ventricle so bulges into the cavity as to make its cross-section appear crescentic.