SURGICAL AXD TOPOGRAPHICAL AXATOMY 1140 A pouch of peritoneum having been gradually, after repeated straining, coughing, etc., pushed through the weak spot, the femoral ring, further weakened perhaps, together with all the parts in the femoral arch, by child-bearing, some extra effort will force intestine or omentum into this pouch and thus form a hernia. Thus formed, femoral hernia passes at first downwards in the femoral canal as far as the saphenous opening, but, as a rule, does not go farther downwards on the thigh, but mounts forwards and upwards, and somewhat outwards, even reaching the level of Poupart's ligament. The reasons for this change of position are—(1) The narrow - ing of the femoral sheath, funnel-like, i.e. wide above but narrowed below; (2) the unyielding nature of the lower margin of the saphenous opening; (3) the fact that this margin and the outer border are united to the femoral sheath; (4) the Fig. 704.—Irregularities of the Obturator Artery. (After Gray.) Internal ring, with spermatic vessels cut short in it Deep epigastric artery Lymphatic gland in femoral ring The obturator arter-y, given off" from the external iliac with the deep epigastric, descends to gain the obturator foramen, but at a safe distance from the femoral ring The obturator artery, coming off from the deep epigastric, takes a course so near to the femoral ring that it umtld very likely be divided by the bistoury intro- duced from without to divide the base of Gimhernat's liga- ment, the cause of the constric- tion constant flexion of the thigh; (5) the fact that vessels (chiefly veins) anil lym- phatics descend to the saphenous opening, the veins to join the saphena vein, and the lymphatics to join the deeper group: these descending vessels serve to loop upwards or suspend a femoral hernia, and thus prevent its further course down- wards. Coverings of a femoral hernia.—(X) At the upper or femoral ring it obtains peritoneum, extra-peritoneal fat, and septum crurale. (B) In the canal, a coating of the femoral sheath. (C) At the external or superficial opening, further coverings of cribriform fascia, skin, and superficial fascia are added.