THE ARTERIES 488 from the junction of the mucous membrane and the skin. It is usually larger than the inferior coronary. The superior coronary anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and gives off a small artery to the septum—arteria septi nasi. Compression of this vessel will sometimes control haemorrhage from the nose. In the operation for hare lip, the pin or suture should be passed sufficiently deep to transfix the divided coronary artery, or haemorrhage may continue into the mouth. Bleeding from either coronary vessel can be readily controlled by the thumb and forefinger grasping the lip. (4) The lateral nasal artery (fig. 334) is a small twig or twigs given off from the facial opposite the ala of the nose. It passes forwards over the ala and lower part of the nose, supplying the integuments, muscles, and cartilages, and anasto- moses with the artery of the septum, the vessel of the opposite side, and the nasal branches of the ophthalmic. (5) The angular artery (fig. 334) is the name given to the termination of the facial artery. It anastomoses at the inner canthus of the eye with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. It is accompanied by the anterior descending vein from the scalp. It lies to the inner side of the lachrymal sac, and supplies that structure and the lower part of the orbicularis oculi, beneath which a branch anas- tomoses with the infraorbital artery. The situation of the artery to the inner side of the lachrymal sac should be borne in mind in opening a lachrymal abscess. 5. THE OCCIPITAL ARTERY The occipital artery (fig. 335) is usually a vessel of considerable size. It comes off from the posterior part of the external carotid opposite the facial, or else a little higher than that vessel. It then winds upwards and backwards to the interval between the mastoid process of the temporal bone and transverse process of the atlas, and, after running horizontally backwards in the occipital groove on the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, again turns upwards, and ends by ramifying in the scalp over the back of the skull, extending as far forwards as the vertex. The vessel may be divided into three parts—viz. that internal to the sterno- mastoid muscle; that beneath the sterno-mastoid; and that external to the sterno- mastoid. In the first part of its course the occipital artery is covered by the integu- ments and fascia, and is more or less overlapped by the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the parotid gland, and temporo-maxillary vein. It is crossed by the hypo-glossal nerve as the latter winds forwards over the carotid vessels to reach the tongue. It successively crosses in front of the internal carotid artery, the hypo- glossal nerve, the pneumogastric nerve, the internal jugular vein, and the spinal accessory nerve. In the second part of its course it sinks deeply beneath the digastric muscle into the interval between the mastoid process of the temporal bone and the trans- verse process of the atlas. It is here covered by the sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis, and trachelo-mastoid muscles and by the origin of the digastricus; and lies, first on the rectus capitis lateralis, which separates it from the vertebral artery, then in the occipital groove on the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and then on the insertion of the superior oblique muscle. In the third part of its course it enters the triangular interval formed by the diverging borders of the splenii capitis and the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Here it lies beneath the integuments and the aponeurosis uniting the occi- pital attachments of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, and rests upon the complexus just before the insertion of that muscle into the occipital bone. In company with the great occipital nerve, it perforates either this aponeurosis, or less often the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, and follows roughly, but in a tortuous course, the line of the lambdoid suture lying between the integument and the cranial aponeurosis. In the scalp it divides into several large branches, which ramify over the back of the skull and reach as far forwards as the vertex. They