496 THE ARTERIES lowing branches:—(a,)Antral, which pass through small foramina into the antrum; ( b) dental, which pass into bony canals to supply the molar and bicuspid teeth; (c) alveolar, or gingival, which supply the gums; and (</) buccal, which are dis- tributed to the buccinator muscle. (2) The infraorbital branch arises from the internal maxillary, generally as a common trunk with the posterior dental. It passes forwards and a little upwards through the spheno-maxillary fossa; then forwards in company with the maxillary division of the fifth nerve, first along the groove, and then through the canal in the orbital plate of the maxilla ; and finally, emerging on the face at the infraorbital foramen, under cover of the levator labii superioris proprius, is distributed to the structures forming the upper lip, the lower eyelid, the lachrymal sac, and the side of the nose. It anastomoses Avith the superior coronary and angular branches of the facial, with the nasal and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic, and with the transverse facial. It gives off the following small branches:—(a) Orbital, to the fat of the orbit and to the inferior rectus and inferior oblique muscles; (6) an anterior dental branch, which passes downwards through a groove in the anterior wall of the superior maxilla, together with the anterior dental branch of the infra- orbital nerve, and supplies branches to the incisor and canine teeth and the mucous membrane of the antrum; and (c) nasal branches, which pass through the foramina in the nasal process of the superior maxilla (sutura notha). (3) The posterior or descending palatine branch descends in the posterior palatine canal with the great or anterior palatine branch of Meckel's ganglion. On emerging on the palate at the posterior palatine foramen, it divides into the follow- ing branches:—(a) An anterior branch, which courses forwards in the muco- periosteum at the junction of the hard palate with the alveolar process as far as the anterior palatine foramen, where it anastomoses with the naso-palatine artery; and ( b) posterior branches, which pass backAvards and doAvnwards into the soft palate, contributing to the supply of that structure, and anastomosing Avith the ascending palatine artery. After the operation for cleft palate, serious haemorrhage occasion- ally occurs from the descending palatine artery. It may be stopped by compressing the artery by means of a plug inserted in the posterior palatine foramen. The foramen is situated a little behind, and internal to, the last molar tooth, and almost immediately in front of the hamular process. (4) The Vidian artery is a long slender branch which passes backAvards through the Vidian canal in company Avith the Vidian nerve into the cartilage of the middle lacerated foramen. It gives off the folloAving branches:—(«) Pharyn- geal, which contributes to the supply of the roof of the pharynx, and anastomoses Avith the ascending pharyngeal and pterygo-palatine arteries; (fe) Eustachian, which is distributed to the Eustachian tube; and (c) tympanic, which enters the tym.panum, and anastomoses with the other tympanic arteries. (5) The pterygo-palatine artery, or pterygo-pharyngeal as it is sometimes called, a still more slender branch than the Vidian, passes backAvards through the pterygo-palatine foramen with the pharyngeal nerve, a branch of Meckel's ganglion. It divides into three branches:—(«) Pharyngeal, to the roof of the pharynx; (b) Eustachian, to the Eustachian tube; and (c) sphenoidal, to the sphenoidal cells. The pterygo-palatine sometimes arises from the spheno-palatine. (6) The spheno-palatine or naso-palatine artery, the terminal branch of the internal maxillary, passes Avith the spheno-palatine branch of Meckel's ganglion from the spheno-maxillary fossa into the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen. Crossing the roof of the nose in the muco-periosteum, it passes on to the septum, and then runs forwards and doAvmvards in a groove on the vomer (under the name of the naso-palatine, or artery of the septum) towards the anterior palatine foramen, Avhere it anastomoses Avith the anterior palatine artery, which enters the nose through the lateral compartment of that foramen (the canal of Stenson). In this course it gives off the folloAving branches:—(a) A pharyngeal branch (or descending pharyngeal branch, as it is sometimes called), which is distributed to the roof and contiguous portions of the pharynx, (ft) A sphenoidal branch, Avhich supplies the sphenoidal cells, (c) Nasal branches, Avhich ramify over the turbinal bones and lateral Avails of the nose, and give tAvigs to the ethmoidal and frontal sinuses and lining membrane of the antrum. (d) Ascending septal