THE TARSO-METATARSAL 277 The arteries for the tarso-metatarsal joints are derived: (1) for the internal, from the dorsalis pedis and internal plantar; (2) for the rest, twigs from the meta- tarsal and deep plantar arches. The nerve-supply comes from the anterior tibial and plantar nerves. The movements permitted at these joints are flexion and extension of the metatarsus on the tarsus; and at the inner and outer divisions, slight adduction and abduction. In the outer, the lateral motion is freer than in the inner joint, and freest between the fifth metatarsal bone and the cuboid. In the inner joint, flexion is combined with slight abduction, and extension with adduction. There is also a little gliding, which allows the transverse arch to be increased or diminished in depth; the inner and outer two bones sliding downwards, and the two middle a little upwards, when the arch is increased; and vice versa when the arch is flattened. (a) The Internal Tarso-metatarsal Joint Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. A complete capsular ligament unites the first metatarsal with the internal cuneiform, the fibres of which are very thick on the under and inner aspects; those on the outer side pass from behind forwards in the interval between the interosseous ligaments which connect the two bones forming this joint with the second metatarsal. The ligament on the plantar aspect is by far the strongest, and blends at the cuneiform bone with the scapho-cuneiform ligament. (b) The Middle Tarso-metatarsal Joint Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. Into this union there enter the three cuneiform and second and third metatarsal bones, which are bound together by the following ligaments: dorsal, plantar, inter- osseous. The dorsal ligaments.—1. Some short fibres cross obliquely from the outer edge of the internal cuneiform bone to the inner border of the base of the second metatarsal bone; they take the place of a dorsal metatarsal ligament which is wanting between the first and second metatarsal bones. 2. Between the middle cuneiform and the base of the second metatarsal bone some fibres run directly forwards. 3. The external cuneiform is connected with (1) the outer corner of the second metatarsal bone by a narrow band passing obliquely inwards ; (2) with the third metatarsal by fibres passing directly forwards ; and (3) with the fourth metatarsal by a short band passing obliquely outwards to the inner edge of its base. The plantar ligaments.—A strong ligament unites the internal cuneiform and the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. The tibialis posticus is inserted into these bones close beside it. Other slender ligaments connect the middle cuneiform with the second, and the external cuneiform with the third metatarsal bones. The interosseous ligaments.—(1) A strong broad interosseous ligament extends between the outer surface of the internal cuneiform, and the inner surface of the base of the second metatarsal bone. It is attached to both bones below and in front of the articular facets, and separates the middle from the internal tarso-metatarsal joint. (2) A second band is attached behind to a fossa on the anterior and outer edge of the external cuneiform and to the interosseous ligament between it and the cuboid, and passes horizontally forwards to be attached to the whole depth of the fourth metatarsal bone behind its internal lateral facet, and to the opposed surfaces of the third and fourth below their lateral articular facets. It separates the middle tarso-metatarsal, and intermetatarsal between the third and fourth bones, from the cubo-metatarsal joint. It is more firmly connected with the third bone tban with the fourth. (3) A slender ligament composed only of a few fibres often passes from a small tubercle on the inner and anterior edge of the