738 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM nerve-cells lies at the base of the anterior cornu externally; it is limited to the dorsal region, but cells occupying relatively similar positions are found in the cervical and lumbar regions also. The axons of its cells probably constitute the katabolic or motor nerve-fibres of the muscles of the glandular and vascular systems. A middle column of cells can be recognised in the centre of the grey matter at the junction of the anterior and posterior cornua. It is more or less distinct throughout the whole length of the cord, and its function is unknown. The term processus reticularis is applied to a number of strands of grey matter which project into the white matter and anastomose together on the outer side of the base of the posterior cornu. The central canal of the cord is lined by ciliated epithelium; it is continued into the filum terminale for about half the length of the latter, and is here some- what dilated; a few nerve-fibres accompany the canal into the filum terminale, and are supposed to be rudimentary coccygeal nerves. The canal is dilated in the conus medullaris, forming an irregular cavity, the sinus rhomboidalis inferior, or ventriculus terminalis. In transverse sections through the spinal cord made in the dissecting room the general arrangement of the grey and white matter can be made out, and sections from the different regions of the cord can be distinguished from one another in fresh specimens, especially with the aid of a pocket lens. In the upper cervical region (at the level of the second or third cervical nerves) the grey matter forms an H-shaped outline bearing a great resemblance to the outline in the dorsal region (fig. 439, B). Sections through this region are very difficult to distinguish from sections of the dorsal cord with the naked eye. The microscope, however, reveals the absence of Clarke's column and the presence, in some cases, of root-fibres of the spinal accessory nerve. In the lower cervical region (fig. 439, A) the cord is elliptical in outline and the anterior horns of the grey crescents are very large ; the section shows a certain similarity to a section through the lumbar region (fig. 439, C). In the latter, however, the anterior horns are more evenly rounded, the general outline approaches more nearly to a circle, and the proportion of grey to white matter has greatly increased. Sections of the dorsal regiofi can be easily recognised with the microscope by the presence of Clarke's column, which is confined to the dorsal, lowest part of the cervical, and the uppermost part of the lumbar regions. Sections through the part of the cord from which the sacral nerves arise show a great pre- ponderance of grey matter. This feature becomes more marked as the termination of the cord is approached (fig. 439, D, E, and F). THE DEEP CONNECTIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES But little information can be gained from a mere macroscopical or microscopical \ examination of the adult cord concerning the course of the fibres of the nerve-roots within it, and the facts detailed here have been chiefly ascertained by embryological and pathological research. The success of the embryological method depends upon the fact that certain tracts or groups of fibres myelinate (or acquire their medullary sheath) at an earlier period than others, and therefore these tracts of medullated fibres can be followed and recognised through a series of sections. The pathological method rests upon the influence which nerve-cells exert upon nerve- fibres; this so-called trophic influence depends upon the fact that every nerve-fibre is a process of a nerve-cell and can only exist and retain its functions as long as it remains connected with the cell. The trophic cell, therefore, of every nerve-fibre is that cell from which the fibre arises and with which it is in direct structural con- | tinuity. If the trophic cell is destroyed the nerve-fibre dies, or if the structural continuity of the cell and fibre is interrupted by section, then the fibre degenerates ; and dies beyond the point of interruption, and the degeneration and death occur simultaneously throughout the whole length of the separated portion. In connec- tion also with the trophic influence of nerve-cells it must be borne in mind that every nerve-cell with its processes constitutes a distinct entity, called a neuron, which has close associative relations with other nerve-cells and with various tissues of the body by means of its processes, but it is absolutely devoid of structural