453 STYLO-GLOSSUS 3. STYLO-GLOSSUS The stylo-glossus—named from its attachments to the styloid process and tongue (yk&aaa)—is a long, triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The front of the lower part and tip of the styloid process of the temporal bone; (2) the upper part of the stylo-mandibular ligament. Insertion.—The submucous tissue and subjacent muscular strata of the side of the tongue and the adjacent parts of its under surface. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, the muscle soon develops into a long, fan-shaped, laterally-compressed sheet, which passes in a long curve, with an upward concavity, forwards and slightly downwards and inwards to the side of the tongue, where it partly overlaps and partly interlaces with the hyo-glossus muscle, forming with this muscle and some of the fibres of the palato-glossus a thin super- ficial stratum which is continued forwards to the tip of the tongue. Nerve-supply.—From the hypoglossal nerve, by filaments which enter its ex- ternal surface. Fig. 315.—Side View of the Muscles of the Tongue. LingualiB inferior Genio-hyo-glossus Genio-hyoid Anterior belly of digastric Hyo-glossus Mylo-hyoid Action.—(1) To draw back the tongue—for this purpose it arises from the styloid process as low as possible and below the level at which the two other styloid muscles arise; (2) to draw upwards the sides of the tongue, so as to help the genio- hyo-glossi and some of the intrinsic muscles in making its upper surface concave from side to side. Relations.—Superficially, the internal pterygoid, the parotid gland, lingual gustatory nerve, and the mucous membrane of the side of the tongue; deeply, the stylo-pharyngeus, hyo-glossus, inferior lingualis and genio-hyo-glossus, with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 4. PALATO-GLOSSUS The palato-glossus—named from its attachment to the soft palate and tongue (jkSaaa)—is a somewhat cylindrical muscle which expands at either end into a thin sheet. , Origin.—The under surface of the aponeurosis of the soft palate; and at the middle line its fibres are continuous with those of its fellow of the opposite side.