648 THE LYMPHATICS THE lymphatics consist of lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands. The lymphatic vessels carry lymph, and the lymphatics of the intestine chyle as well whilst digestion is going on. The chyle-carrying lymphatics are generally known as lacteals. The lymphatic glands are situated at certain spots in the course of the lymphatic vessels. The lymphatic vessels ultimately terminate either in the left or right lymphatic duct. The former, some eighteen inches in length, known as the thoracic duct, begins at the confluence of certain lymphatics in the abdomen, passes through the thorax, and terminates in the left innominate vein at the confluence of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins. It receives the lymphatics of both lower extremities, the lymphatics of the abdomen, except those from the convex surface of the liver, the lymphatics from the left half of the thorax, the left half of the head and neck, and the left upper extremity. The right lymphatic duct is a short vessel a little less than an inch in length. It receives the lymphatics from the convex surface of the liver, the right half of the thorax, the right side of the head and neck, and the right upper extremity. It ends in the right innominate vein at the confluence of the right internal jugular and subclavian veins. The thoracic duct, or left lymphatic duct, is described with the Lym- phatics of the Thorax; the right lymphatic duct with the Lymphatics of the Head and Neck. THE LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK The lymphatics of the head and neck are divided into the superficial and the deep. The superficial roughly follow the course of the superficial veins. Streaming down the scalp and face, they enter the neck through corresponding groups of superficial glands, and then converge to join the superficial cervical chain and in part the deep cervical chain of glands which are situated along the course of the external and internal jugular veins respectively. The deep lymphatics of the head and neck follow roughly the course of the deep arteries. They include the lymphatics from the interior of the cranium; from the orbit; from the interior of the nose and mouth; from the tongue; from the pharynx, larynx, and upper part of the trachea and oesophagus, and from the thyroid gland. After passing through certain glands in their course, they terminate chiefly in the deep cervical chain of glands. The deep cervical chain of glands, after receiving the lymphatics from the superficial chain, ends in the thoracic duct on the left side, and in the right lymphatic duct on the right side.