THE SKELETON 50 converted into canals by the frontal bone. The anterior canal transmits the anterior ethmoidal artery and nasal nerve; the posterior is for the posterior ethmoidal artery, and a branch of the nasal nerve. The superior and middle turbinals project on the inner aspect of the lateral mass; they coalesce anteriorly, but are separated posteriorly by a space, termed the superior meatus. Each turbinal has an attached upper,"and a free, slightly con- voluted, lower border. In the recent state they are covered with mucous membrane, and present numerous foramina for blood-vessels, and grooves for twigs of the olfactory nerves. On the under surface of each lateral mass, near the anterior corner of the os planum, an irregular lamina of bone projects downwards and backwards. This is the unciform process : it articulates with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinal, and forms a small part of the inner Avail of the antrum. The anterior part of the lateral mass projects forwards in front of the os planum and articulates with the inner surface of the nasal process of the maxilla. The ethmoidal cells occupy the space between the os planum and the turbinals; they are divided by a thin septum into an anterior and a posterior set. The cells are imperfect in the ethmoid; they require the juxtaposition of other bones to make them complete. Above, they are closed by the horizontal plate of the frontal, Fig. 60.—The Ethmoid. (Side view.) ANTERIOR ETHMOIDAL GROOVE UNCIFORM PROCESS INFERIOR TURBINAL posteriorly by the sphenoidal turbinal and the orbital process of the palate, interiorly by the maxilla, and anteriorly by the lachrymal. The anterior set communicate with the frontal cells above, whilst below they open into the middle meatus of the nose by a sinuous canal, the infundibulum. The posterior cells open into the superior meatus, and occasionally communicate with the sphenoidal cells. The cells are sometimes divided into groups, according to the bone which lies in immediate juxtaposition. Those along the superior edge are the fronto-ethmoidal; those beneath the lachrymal, lachrymo-ethmoidal, usually two in number. Those along the lower edge are the maxillo-ethmoidal; and posteriorly there are the spheno-ethmoidal, completed by the sphenoidal turbinals, and a palato- ethmoidal cell. Articulations.—The ethmoid articulates with the frontal, sphenoid, two palate bones, two nasals, vomer, two inferior turbinals, the sphenoidal turbinals, two max- illa?, and two lachrymal bones. The posterior surface of each lateral mass comes into relation with the sphenoid on each side of the crest and rostrum, and helps to close in the sphenoidal sinus. Blood-supply.—The anterior and posterior ethmoidal, and from the nasal or spheno-palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. Ossification.—The ethmoid has three centres of ossification. Of these, a nucleus appears in the fourth month of intra-uterine life in each lateral cartilage.