THE ARTERIES 592 where it gives off a large branch, the anterior peroneal, and then, passing over the back of the inferior tibio-fibular joint, terminates by breaking up into a network, which is distributed over the back of the external malleolus and outer surface of the calcaneum (fig. 381). It is accompanied by two venae comites. Relations.—At its upper part it is deeply placed between the tibialis posticus and soleus muscles, and beneath the deep or intermuscular fascia. For the rest of its course to the ankle it lies beneath, or sometimes in the substance of the flexor longus hallucis in the angle between the fibula and interosseous membrane. After giving off the anterior peroneal, it is only covered, as it lies behind the tibio-fibular articulation, by the integuments and deep fascia, and in this part of its course is sometimes called the posterior peroneal. The branches of the peroneal artery are:—(a) The anterior peroneal; (b) the muscular; (c) the medullary; (d) the communicating; (e) the cutaneous; (/) the external calcanean; and (g) the terminal. (a) The anterior peroneal artery arises from the front of the peroneal artery at the lower part of the interosseous space, and, passing through the interosseous membrane, runs downwards over the front of the inferior tibio-fibular joint, beneath the peroneus tertius, and supplies this muscle and the inferior tibio-fibular joint. It anastomoses with the tarsal, metatarsal, and external malleolar branches of the anterior tibial artery, and with the external plantar artery on the outer side of the foot, forming a plexus over the outer ankle (fig. 380). (/> ) The muscular branches of the peroneal artery are distribifled to the con- tiguous muscles, namely: the flexor longus hallucis, the tibialis posticus, the peronei, and the soleus. (c) The medullary enters the nutrient foramen of the fibula. (<i) The communicating branches pass transversely inwards in front of the tendo Achillis to anastomose with the communicating branch of the posterior tibial. The usual situation of this communication is from one to two inches above the ankle-joint. (e) The cutaneous branches run outwards between the flexor longus hallucis and soleus to supply the integuments on the outer side of the leg. (/) The external calcanean comes off from the peroneal below the point at which the anterior peroneal is given off, and is distributed over the outer surface of the os calcis. ((/) The terminal branch or posterior peroneal, the continuation of the peroneal artery, anastomoses with the other arteries distributed to the external malleolus and heel. (2) The muscular branches of the posterior tibial artery are distributed to the contiguous muscles, namely: the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and soleus. (3) The medullary artery, a vessel of large size, leaves the posterior tibial at its upper part, pierces the tibialis posticus, and enters the medullary foramen in the upper third of the posterior surface of the tibia. In the interior of the bone it divides into two branches: an ascending or smaller, which runs upwards towards the head of the bone; and a descending or larger, which courses downwards towards the lower end. It gives off two or three muscular twigs to the tibialis posticus before it enters the foramen. The medullary artery of the tibia is the largest nutrient artery of bone in the body, and is accompanied by a nerve given off by the nerve to the popliteus. (4) The cutaneous branches pass inwards to the integuments on the inner side of the leg. They run in the cellular planes between the deep and superficial muscles, and serve as useful guides to the vessel when ligaturing the posterior tibial through the lateral incision. (5) The communicating branch arises from the posterior tibial about two inches above the inner malleolus, and, passing transversely outwards across the tibia beneath the flexor longus hallucis and tendo Achillis, anastomoses with the communicating branch of the peroneal. Frequently an inferior communicating branch between the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries is likewise present in the loose connective tissue beneath or behind the tendo Achillis (fig. 374).