1172 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY this part lying on the periosteum of the last phalanx. The synovial sheaths, as they pass beneath the annular ligament, are somewhat constricted. Deeper down are the articular synovial sacs, five in number: (1) Between the interarticular cartilage and the head of the ulna; (2) between the radius and the interarticular cartilage above, and the scaphoid, and semilunar and cuneiform below; (3) between the trapezium and first metacarpal bone; (4) between the pisi- form and the cuneiform bone; (5) between the two rows of carpal bones, sending two processes upwards between the three bones of the upper row, and three downwards between the four of the lower row; these three processes being also continued below into the inner four carpo-metacarpal and three intermetacarpal joints. Beneath the palmar fascia covering the thenar eminence are the following struc- tures:—Superficialis volae, abductor pollicis, opponens pollicis, radial head of short flexor, tendon of long flexor, ulnar head of short flexor, princeps pollicis, and radialis indicis arteries, metacarpal bone of the thumb, with the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis and trapezium. Beneath the central part of the palmar fascia are the superficial arch and its digital branches; the ulnar and median nerves, with their branches; the flexors, superficial and deep, with their synovial sheath; and the lumbricales; then a layer of connective tissue (the only structure which prevents matter pent in by the palmar fascia from making its way back out through the dorsum), the deep arch, the interossei, and the metacarpal bones. In the hypothenar eminence under the fascia are part of the ulnar artery and nerve, the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, the opponens, the deep branch of the ulnar artery and nerve, and the fifth metacarpal bone. The back of the wrist and hand.—The posterior annular ligament has already been described with the anterior. On the outer side is the so-called ' snuff-box space' (tabatiere anatomique of Cloquet), a triangular hollow, bounded towards the radius by the two first extensors of the thumb, and towards the ulna by the extensor secundi internodii. The scaphoid and trapezium, with their dorsal liga- ments, form the floor. In the roof lie the radial vein and branches of the radial nerve. More deeply is the artery following a line from the apex of the styloid pro- cess to the back of the interosseous space. The different tendons have already been given. Between the first two metacarpal bones is the first dorsal interosseous muscle, which forms a fleshy projection against the radial side of the index meta- carpal, when the thumb and index are pressed together. On its palmar aspect is the adductor pollicis. Wasting of the former muscle is a ready indication of injury or disease of the ulnar nerve. THE LOWER EXTREMITY THE THIGH Bony landmarks.—Many of these, such as the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the pubes, have already been mentioned. The head and shaft of the femur are well covered in, save in the emaciated. The head lies just below Poupart's ligament, under the ilio-psoas and a little to the outer side of the centre of that ligament. The outline of the condyles can be traced when the knee is flexed, and, on the outer side, a small portion of the shaft is accessible between the biceps and vastus externus. Trochanter major.—This most valuable landmark is most prominent when the limb is rotated inwards or adducted; it lies at the bottom of a depression when the femur is everted. The only structures of importance between it and the skin are the expanded insertion of the gluteus maximus and the bursa beneath the muscle. This is often m unilocular. The top of the great trochanter is about