FLEXOR ACCESSORIUS DIGITORUM PEDIS 3S1 nerve, by filaments which enter the back part of the deep surface of the muscle near its inner border. Action.—(1) To abduct the first phalanx of the little toe from the middle line; (2) to flex the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the little toe. The usual action of the muscle will be a combination of these two movements. Relations.—Superficially, the plantar fascia, the flexor brevis digitorum, and even a small portion of the abductor hallucis. Deeply, the accessorius, flexor brevis minimi digiti, long plantar ligament, and peroneus longus tendon. Variations.—The muscular slip attached to the base of the fifth metatarsal boue is often so distinct as to form a separate muscle, the abductor ossis metatarsi quinti. Second Layer The second layer consists of the flexor accessorius muscle, the four lumbricales, and the tendons of the flexor longus hallucis and the flexor longus digitorum. 1. FLEXOR ACCESSORIUS DIGITORUM PEDIS The flexor accessorius digitorum pedis—named from its accessory or supple- mentary action in assisting the flexion of the toes by the flexor longus digitorum— is a double-headed quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—Inner head : The whole of the concave inner surface of the calcaneum below the groove for the flexor longus hallucis. Outer head : (1) The junction of the lower and outer surfaces of the calcaneum in front of the lesser tubercle; (2) the under surface of the back part of the long plantar ligament. Insertion.—The upper surface and outer border of the flexor longus digitorum tendon about midway between the tubercles of the calcaneum and the heads of the metatarsal bones. Structure.—Its inner head consists of fleshy fibres which converge from their origin in a somewhat fan-shaped sheet, and are joined shortly before their insertion into the tendon by the outer head, which consists of a pointed tendinous origin, from which the fleshy fibres form a somewhat smaller fan-shaped sheet which blends with that from the inner head, to be inserted by fleshy fibres upon the upper surface and outer border of the flexor longus digitorum, at its point of division into the tendons for the four outer toes. Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve, by branches which enter the under surface of the muscle near its origin. Action.—To help in the flexion of the last phalanges of the four outer toes, and at the same time to draw the toes somewhat outwards. On account of the oblique direction of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum in the foot, they would tend in flexing the toes to draw them at the same time inwards. This tendency will be somewhat neutralised by the simultaneous contraction of the accessorius. The accessorius will also be able to flex the toes when, on account of the extension of the ankle-joint, the muscular fibres of the flexor longus digitorum are so relaxed as to be incapable of action. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor minimi digiti, the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, with the external plantar vessels and nerve; deeply, the flexor brevis hallucis and long plantar ligament. Variations.—An additional head may arise above the ankle from the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, or soleus. Sometimes the outer head is wanting, and occasionally the whole muscle is absent. The distribution of its fibres to the tendons of the long flexor is very variable. It may send fibres to the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis.