THE PROSTATE 1021 internal pudic, and in the female some twigs are also given off by the uterine and vaginal arteries. The veins terminate in the internal iliac trunk. They form plexuses which are especially large about the parts adjacent to the prostate, and communicate in the male with all the veins in the neighbourhood. Lymphatics appear as a submucous plexus which is most developed in the neighbourhood of the internal meatus. They accompany the veins and terminate in the internal iliac glands. Nerves.—The nerves are derived, partly from the sympathetic system through the hypogastric plexuses, partly from the cerebro-spinal system through the third and fourth sacral nerves. The former supply the mucosa, the latter the muscularis. THE 31ALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS The reproductive organs of the male consist of (1) two testicles or seminal glands, with their excretory tubes; (2) a musculo-glandular organ, the prostate, which provides a material for the dilution of the semen, and by its sphincteric contraction aids in the ejaculation of the spermatic fluid, and at the same time intercepts its retrograde passage into the bladder; (3) an organ of copulation, the penis; and (4) a canal, the urethra, which pierces the prostate and penis, and serves for the transit of both the generative and urinary secretions. THE PROSTATE The prostate is a firm elastic and contractile oi'gan, lying between the bladder and the penis, and perforated by the urethra (figs. 620, 624, and 649). It is roughly comparable to a horse-chestnut in form and dimensions; its broader extremity or base lies uppermost and blends with the vesical sphincter, while its apex rests against the superior triangular ligament. Its long axis is vertical (in the erect posture), or inclines slightly forwards below (fig. 617), and is nearly an inch and a quarter (3 cm.) in length. Its transverse diameter, greatest near the base, measures about an inch and a half, and its antero-posterior diameter about an inch. Its average weight is about six drachms, nearly the same as that of the testicle, and it may be noted that the active evolution of the two organs begins at the same period, at puberty, and that the structural and functional development of the one is intimately associated with that of the other during the period of sexual vigor. It offers for description a base, an apex, and anterior, lateral, and posterior walls. The base is connected with the musculature of the bladder, receiving the attachment of the longitudinal fibres and surrounding the sphincteric portion of the circular layer at the urethral orifice. It usually lies a little above the level of the middle of the symphysis. The apex, resting against the superior or deep triangular ligament, is from one-half to three-fourths of an inch (12 to 18 mm. ) behind and a little below the subpubic angle, and on rectal exploration will be found about an inch and a quarter above the margin of the anus. The anterior wall is rounded, and is covered by the prostatic plexus of veins and the vesico- pubic muscle and pubo-prostatic ligaments (page 1018). The lateral walls are in contact with the inner borders of the two levatores ani muscles and the marginal portion of the venous plexus, and project above and behind in the form of ill- defined lateral lobes, which may be looked upon as the persistent indication of its development in two halves. The posterior wall is flattened and is opposed to the rectum, from which it is separated by some connective tissue and unstriped muscular fibres continuous with the subperitoneal tissue and pelvic fascia. Near its upper border is a transverse median cleft, the prostatic fissure (fig. 624 ), which extends deeply inwards and forwards towards the middle of the prostatic urethra, transmitting the common ejaculatory ducts and the sinus pocularis, and in section