653 LYMPHATICS OF UPPER EX TEEMPTl the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus muscles. They receive lymphatics from the upper surface and posterior part of the substance of the tongue. Their efferent vessels terminate in the superior glands of the deep cervical chain. (2) The internal maxillary or deep facial glands, three to six in number, are situated by the side of the pharynx immediately behind the buccinator muscle. They receive the lymphatics from the orbit, the nose, the temporal and spheno- maxillary fossa?, the upper jaw, the palate, and the pharynx. Their efferent vessels join the superior glands of the deep cervical chain. (3) The post-pharyngeal gland is situated behind the pharynx on the rectus capitis anticus major near the base of the skull. It receives lymphatics from the upper part of the pharynx, from the nose, and from the deep prevertebral muscles. 2. The deep lymphatic glands of the neck are divided into the upper and the lower. The upper set extend along the course of the internal jugular vein from the base of the skull to about the level of the thyroid cartilage. They receive the lymphatics from the interior of the cranium above; the lymphatics from the deep muscles of the upper part of the neck behind; and the lymphatics from the internal maxillary glands, the posterior half of the tongue, the middle portion of the pharynx, the upper part of the larynx, the upper part of the thyroid body, and some of the efferent vessels from the submaxillary lymphatic glands in front and internally. Their efferent vessels pass downwards to the lower deep cervical glands. The lower deep cervical glands follow the course of the internal jugular vein from the thyroid cartilage to near the clavicle. They receive the lymphatics from the lower part of the neck, the efferent vessels from the superior set of deep cervical glands, the lymphatics from the lower part of the larynx, the lower part of the thyroid body, the upper part of the trachea and oesophagus, and the efferent vessels from the superficial cervical glands. Their efferent vessels end in the jugular lymphatic trunk, which unites with the subclavian lymphatic trunk, on the right side to form the right lymphatic duct, and on the left side to end in the thoracic duct. The right jugular trunk may also receive the lymphatics coming from the right half of the superior and anterior mediastina. The right lymphatic duct.—The right lymphatic duct is a short vessel from half to three-quarters of an inch long. It receives the lymphatics from the right side of the head and neck, from the right upper extremity, most of the lymphatics from the right side of the thorax, the right lung and pleura and from the right side of the heart and part of the lymphatics from the convex surface of the liver. It passes downwards and inwards from its formation at the union of the subclavian and jugular lymphatic trunks, and ends at the confluence of the right internal jugular and subclavian veins. Its entrance is guarded by a double valve. THE LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The lymphatics of the upper extremity—consisting of both lymphatic ves- sels and lymphatic glands—are arranged in two sets, a superficial and a deep. The former are situated in the subcutaneous tissue between the skin and the deep or muscular fascia, the latter along the course of the arteries of the limb. Both sets converge as they approach the axilla, and unite in the axillary glands. The efferent vessels of these glands form one or more trunks, which open, on the left side, into the thoracic duct, and, on the right side, into the right lymphatic duct.