SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1094 this vascularity we owe the chemosis, or hot, red, tense swelling of purulent ophthalmia. The exquisite suffering of the same disease, or that caused by a foreign body, is explained by the numerous nerve-papillse. To the thickness and abundance of the connective tissue are due the contraction and permanent thicken- ing which may occur in granular lids. The so-called granulations, met with in this disease on the palpebral conjunctiva, are really little nodules of hypertrophied lymphoid follicles, or mucous glands, which abound here. The position of the lachrymal puncta should be noted; owing to their back- ward direction, the lids must be previously everted. The puncta are kept open by a minute fibrous ring. Each is situated on a minute papilla at the junction of the inner and straight third of the lid with the outer curved two-thirds. Close to the inner canthus, in addition to the puncta and papilla?, should be noted the caruncula lachrymalis, with Fig. 669.—The Lacheymal Apparatus and Nasal Duct. (Bellamy.) (Bristles are introduced into the puncta lachrymalia.) INNER WALL OF ANTRUM V LOWER TURBINATED BONE Orifice of nasal duet its delicate hairs, and the plica semilunaris, which corresponds to the third eyelid of certain birds. The lachrymal sac is the most important of the lachrymal apparatus, from its disfiguring diseases; it lies in a bony groove, between the nasal process of the maxilla and the lachrymal bone. The tendo oculi crosses it a little above its centre (fig. 669). Thus two-thirds of the sac are below the tendon, and in suppuration the opening is made below it also. The angular artery ascends on the nasal side of the sac. The manipulation of a probe along the lachrymal passages should thus be practised:—The lower lid being drawn outwards and downwards by the thumb, the probe is passed vertically into the punctum, then turned horizontally and passed on till it reaches the inner wall of the sac. It is then raised vertically, and pushed steadily along the duct downwards, and a little outwards and back- wards, till the floor of the nose is reached. If the eyes are opened naturally, the greater part of the cornea, behind it the iris, with the pupil in the centre, on either side of the cornea some of the sclerotic, the semilunar fold and caruncle can be seen.