THE FALLOPIAN TUBES 1051 The utero-pelvic ligaments (fig. 641) are the expansions of muscular tissue already described in connection with the broad ligament. They radiate from the fascia over the obturator interims to the sides of the uterus and vagina, and ensheathe the utero-vaginal vessels and nerves. The utero-ovarian ligaments (fig. 639), or ligaments of the ovaries, are short rounded cords continuous with the uterine fibres at the superior angle of the organ behind the Fallopian tube, and joining externally the inner end and attached border of each ovary. These various ligamentous structures all serve to main- tain the normal position of the uterus. In addition, the utero-ovarian ligament aids in the fixation of the ovary, and the round and utero-pelvic ligaments form protective sheaths for vessels and nerves. THE FALLOPIAN TUBES OR OVIDUCTS The Fallopian tubes (fig. 639) represent the upper extremities of the Miillerian ducts, and may probably be regarded as cornua uteri both in structure and mor- phology. They are two trumpet-shaped tubes structurally continuous with the Fig. 642.—The Beoad Ligament and its Contents, seen from the Fkont. (After Sappey.) PAROVARIUM FALLOPIAN TUBE AMPULLA OF FALLOPIAN TUBE EXTERNAL ANGLE OF UTERUS FIMBRIATED EXTREMITY OF TUBE FIMBRIA OVARICA Round ligament Ligament ci ovary Anterior peritoneal lamina superior angles of the uterus, and running between the two layers of the broad ligaments to become closely connected with the ovaries, partly by direct attachment, partly by a peculiar contiguity. Each duct opens internally into the uterine cavity, and its external orifice establishes a continuity between the tubo-ovarian mucous membrane and the peritoneum, but under normal circumstances is closely applied to the surface of the ovary, and receives the ova which are detached from the gland, transmitting them to the uterine cavity. It is about four and a half inches (11 cm. ) in length, straight, narrow, and somewhat cord-like at its uterine end for a distance of about an inch and a half; flexuous, and irregularly dilated in the rest of its length as far as its free extremity, where it becomes expanded into a trumpet- shaped mouth, fringed by a circle or circles of diverging villous processes or fimbriae, one of which, the fimbria ovarica, or tubo-ovarian ligament, is attached to the outer extremity of the ovary. One or two little cystic pediculated appendages, like the hydatid of Morgagni in the testicle, may also be appended to the mouth. The aperture (ostium abdominale) in the middle of this expansion is very small, not more than half a line or a line in diameter, but its mucous membrane may be prolonged for some distance along a furrow in the tubo-ovarian ligament. The narrow extremity, or isthmus, has a diameter of about an eighth of an inch