SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1114 the left of the sternum, straight upwards to the clavicle, delineates the vertical thoracic course of the long left subclavian artery (Sheild). Innominate veins.—The left, three inches long, extends very obliquely from the left sterno-clavicular joint, to a point half an inch to the right of the sternum, in the first intercostal space. The right, about an inch long, descends almost vertically to the above point from the right sterno-clavicular joint. Venae cavae.—The superior descends from the point above given for the meeting of the innominate veins in the first intercostal space, close to the sternum, and perforates the right auricle on a level with the third costal cartilage. The inferior vena cava.—The opening of this vein into the right auricle lies under the middle of the fifth right interspace and the adjacent part of the sternum. Internal mammary artery.—This descends behind the clavicle, the costal cartilages, and the first six spaces, about half an inch from the edge of the sternum. In the sixth intercostal space it divides into musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric arteries. THE ABDOMEN Skin markings; bones and muscular landmarks.—The linea alba, or meeting of the aponeuroses of the great abdominal muscles over, under, and between the recti, reaches from the apex of the xiphoid cartilage to the symphysis. It is best marked above the umbilicus. Its little vascularity and comparative thinness fit this line for the point of election for many of the operations on the abdominal cavity. In the linea alba, a little below its centre, is the umbilicus. This corresponds to the level of the fibro-cartilage between the third and fourth lumbar vertebras, the tip of the third lumbar spine (Winclle), the highest point of the iliac crests, and a point three-quarters of an inch to one inch above the bifur- cation of the aorta. On each side of the linea alba, and about two and a half to three inches from it (according to the muscular development), a line, curved with a slight convexity outwards, the linea semilunaris, denotes the point of division of the abdominal aponeuroses, reaching from the ninth costal cartilage to the pubic spine. Between the linea alba and the linea semilunaris run the three linea? transversa?, of which one is placed at the umbilicus, another at the xiphoid cartilage, and a third between the two, on a level with the tenth costal cartilage. There is, rarely, a fourth, below the umbilicus. In very corpulent subjects two deep transverse furrows run across the abdomen. One runs across the navel and completely conceals it; the other is lower down, just above the fat of the pubes. In tapping the bladder above the pubes in such a case, the trocar should be introduced where this line intersects the linea alba (Holden). A transverse line drawn from one anterior superior spine to the other crosses at about the level of the top of the promontory of the sacrum. Such a line will always show whether the pelvis is horizontal or not (Holden). Poupart's ligament corresponds to a line drawn with a slight curve down- wards between the anterior superior spine and the pubic spine. The first of these bony prominences corresponds to the starting-point of the above ligament, the attachment of the fascia lata to the ilium, the meeting of the fleshy and aponeu- rotic parts of the external oblique (denoted by a line drawn upwards from this spine to the ninth costal carttiage, or often a little anteriorly to these points), the point of emergence of the external cutaneous nerve, and part of the origins of the internal oblique, transversalis, and tensor vagina? femoris. The pubic spine marks the outer pillar of the external abdominal ring, the mouth of which corresponds to the crest, or that part of the pubes lying between the spine and the symphysis.