83 INTERIOR OF THE SKULL The ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. Furrows for meningeal arteries. The middle cranial fossa presents a central isthmus and two lateral depressed portions. It is limited anteriorly by the posterior borders of the lesser wings of the sphenoid and the anterior margin of the optic groove. The posterior limits are the dorsum ephippii and the superior borders of the petrosals. Laterally it is bounded by the squamosals and the parietal bones. The floor is formed by the body and greater wings of the sphenoid, and the anterior surfaces of the petrosals. It contains the following sutures : sphenoparietal, petro-sphenoid, squamo-sphenoiclal, squa- mous, and a portion of the transverse suture. The central portion or isthmus of the middle fossa presents the following points from before backwards:— The optic groove, which lodges the optic chiasma. The optic foramina, transmitting the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. The olivary process, indicating the line of ankylosis between pre- and post- sphenoid. The anterior clinoid processes. The pituitary fossa, with the middle clinoid processes, and grooves for the internal carotid arteries. The dorsum ephippii, with the posterior clinoid processes, and notches for the third pair of cranial nerves. This central depression is in direct relation with the parts of the brain sur- rounding the circle of Willis. The lateral depressions receive the temporo-sphenoidal lobes of the brain, and are marked by numerous furrows roughly corresponding to the convolutions of the cerebrum. Numerous narrow diverging channels pass upwards from the fossa towards the vertex; these lodge the ramifications of the middle and small meningeal arteries. The following openings occur on each side of this fossa:— The sphenoidal fissure, leading into the orbit and transmitting the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth and the sixth nerves, and ophthalmic vein. In the greater wing of the sphenoid near its union with the frontal bone there are small openings allowing twigs of the middle meningeal artery to enter the orbit. The foramen rotundum, which conducts the second division of the fifth nerve into the spheno-maxillary fossa. The foramen ovale : this transmits the third division of the fifth nerve with its motor root, the small meningeal artery, and the small superficial petrosal nerve. The foramen Vesalii (not always present) for a small vein. The foramen spinosum, for the middle meningeal artery and its vena? comites. The middle lacerated foramen, which transmits at its inner angle the internal carotid artery, with the carotid plexus of nerves. On the posterior wall of this fossa the objects of interest are:— A depression which lodges the Gasserian ganglion. The hiatus Fallopii, for the great superficial petrosal nerve, and a twig from the middle meningeal artery. A foramen for the small superficial petrosal nerve. A minute foramen for the external superficial petrosal nerve. An eminence formed by the superior semicircular canal. Anterior and slightly external to the ridge formed by the superior semicircular canal, the bone is exceedingly thin and translucent. This is the roof of the tym- panum (tegmen tympani). When the dura mater is in situ, the depression lodging the Gasserian ganglion is converted into a foramen, traversed by the fifth nerve. The notch in the side of the dorsum ephippii for the third nerve is also a foramen when the dura mater is present. In many skulls the middle clinoid process is pro- longed to meet the anterior clinoid process, and thus forms a foramen for the inter- nal carotid artery. The grooves for the middle meningeal arteries are sometimes canals or tunnels in a part of their course, especially in old skulls. The grooves radiate from the foramen spinosum and extend to the vault. The bones most deeply marked are the squamosal, the greater wing of the sphenoid, and the parietal.