662 THE LYMPHATICS The median group (aortic lumbar glands ) consists of about six large glands placed along the abdominal aorta and vena cava. They extend from the bifurcation of the aorta to the second lumbar vertebra. The median group receive the efferent vessels of the external and internal iliac and sacral glands, the lymphatics accompanying the spermatic or ovarian vessels from the testicle or ovarian plexus respectively, and the lymphatics of the kidneys, suprarenal bodies, and hinder portion of the diaphragm. They also receive most of the efferent vessels from the lateral sets. Their efferent vessels commonly unite about the level of the second lumbar vertebra to form a right and a left lumbar lymphatic trunk, which open, with some small vessels from the lateral sets, into the receptaculum chyli. The left lumbar trunk also receives the lymphatics of the descending colon and sigmoid flexure. The lateral lumbar glands, transverse lumbar or psoas glands, are situated behind the psoas between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra?. They are twenty or thirty in number, and smaller than the glands of the central group. The lateral glands receive the lymphatics accompanying the lumbar arteries, the lymphatics from the muscles of the back, the spinal canal, and from the deeper parts of the parietes of the posterior abdominal walls. Their efferent vessels open, in part into the median set, and in part, as separate vessels, into the receptaculum chyli. The cceliac glands, sixteen to twenty in number, are grouped around the cceliac axis in front of the aorta, above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. At the back of the transverse meso-colon they receive the efferent vessels from some of the hepatic glands, the superior gastric glands, the inferior gastric glands, the splenic and the pancreatic glands. Their efferent vessels join the intestinal lymphatic trunk, and open into the receptaculum chyli. II. THE VISCERAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS The lymphatics of the pelvic and abdominal viscera are considered separately. 1. The lymphatics of the pelvic viscera.—The lymphatics of the bladder pass partly backwards, beneath the peritoneum, to join the rectal lymphatics, or the lymphatics of the uterus and vagina in the female; and partly forwards, to join the prostatic lymphatics and the lymphatics of the vesiculae seminales. These anterior sets of lymphatics, together with those from the prostate and vesiculae seminales, pass through the anterior true ligaments of the bladder, in which there is a small gland, into the internal iliac lymphatics. The lymphatics of the rectum run backwards between the two layers of the meso-rectum, in which there are four or five glands, through the sacral to the lumbar glands. At the lower part of the rectum the lymphatics become continuous with the cutaneous lymphatics round the anus, and for this reason disease of the lower part of the bowel involves the inguinal glands. The lymphatics of the uterus, vagina, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes.— The superficial lymphatics of the uterus, which lie beneath the peritoneum, pass, together with those of the substance of the fundus and upper part of the body of the organ, outwards, in the broad ligament, where they join the lymphatics from the ovaries and Fallopian tubes, and pass up, with the ovarian vessels, to the lumbar glands. The lymphatics from the lower part of the body and from the cervix of the uterus run, together with most of the lymphatics of the vagina, along the course of the uterine and vaginal vessels, and terminate in the internal iliac glands. The lymphatics from the lower part of the vagina join the superficial inguinal glands. The lymphatics of the testicle accompany the spermatic vessels, and terminate in the lumbar glands situated immediately below the renal arteries. Hence in carcinoma of the testicle the lumbar glands are those which first become enlarged, the inguinal not being affected until the skin of the scrotum becomes involved in the disease. 2. The lymphatics of the abdominal viscera are divided into—(1) The