THE ARTERIES 578 of the obturator and the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. This branch, though usually small, is occasionally considerably enlarged, when its exact course be- comes of great interest to the surgeon. Thus it may descend immediately internal to the vein, and therefore external to the femoral ring, or it may pass inwards in front of the femoral ring and turn downwards either behind the os pubis or immediately behind the free edge of Gimbernat's ligament, in which situation it would be exposed to injury in the operation for the relief of a strangulated femoral hernia, (c) The muscular, which supply the rectus and the oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen, and anastomose with the lower intercostal and the lumbar arteries, ( d) The cutaneous, which pierce the rectus, and supply the skin, anas- tomosing with branches of the superficial epigastric. And (e) the terminal, which anastomose above the umbilicus with the superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary. Variations.—(A) The epigastric may come off from the external iliac higher than usual; it has been met with arising as much as two inches and a half above Poupart s ligament. (B) It may arise from the femoral below Poupart's ligament, or even from the profunda. (C) It may arise as a common trunk with the circumflex iliac. (D) It is sometimes double. (E) It may arise from the obturator, or conversely it may give off the obturator artery. This variation is due to the enlargement of the normal anastomosis of the epigastric and obturator through their pubic branches. It is of considerable importance to the surgeon, since the obturator artery, when given off from the epigastric, may run either external or internal to the femoral ring to reach the obturator foramen. This abnormal origin of the obturator is said to occur once in every three subjects and a half; but the abnormal artery only courses round the inner side of the ring— in which situation it is liable to injury in the operation for femoral hernia—in exceptional cases. According to Langton (Holden's 'Anatomy '), the chances are about seventy to one against this occurring. But even when it takes the abnormal course, it lies a line and a half or so from the margin of the ring, and will probably escape injury in the division of the stricture if several short notches are made in place of a single and longer incisiou. (2) The Deep Circumflex Iliac Artery The deep circumflex iliac arises from the outer side of the external iliac artery, either opposite the epigastric or a little below the origin of that vessel. It courses upwards and outwards just above the lower margin of Poupart's ligament, lying between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum, or at times in a fibrous canal formed by the union of the fascia transversalis with the iliac fascia. Near the anterior superior spine of the ilium, it perforates the transversalis, and then courses between that muscle and the internal oblique, along and a little above the crest of the ilium. It finally divides into an ascending branch, which anastomoses with the lumbar and lower intercostal arteries, and a marginal branch which runs backwards to anastomose with the iliolumbar artery. It is accompanied by two veins. These unite into one trunk, which then crosses the external iliac artery to join the external iliac vein. The deep circumflex iliac artery gives off the following branches: — (a) Muscular branches, which supply the psoas, iliacus, sartorius, tensor fascia? fem- oris, and the oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen. One of these branches, larger than the rest, usually arises about an inch behind the anterior superior spine of the ilium and ascends perpendicularly between the transversalis muscle and the internal oblique. It has received no name but is important to the surgeon, as it indicates the intermuscular plane between the two muscles, (b) Cutaneous branches, which supply the skin over the course of the vessel, and anastomose with the superficial circumflex iliac, the gluteal, and the ascending branch of the external circumflex. Variations.—(A) The circumflex iliac, like the epigastric, may be given off from the external iliac higher than normal, though seldom if ever as high as the latter. (B) More rarely it may come off from the femoral below Poupart's ligament. (C) It may arise as a common trunk with the epigastric. (D) It may be double.