THE KNEE-JOINT 257 of the head of the tibia. It is strengthened superficially between the femur and patella by an expansion from the subcrureus, and is separated from the fibrous expansion of the extensor tendon by a layer of fatty tissue. The synovial mem- brane lines its deep surface, and holds it against the borders of the semilunar cartilages; it is also attached to the coronary ligaments. Internal Ligaments The anterior crucial ligament (figs. 246 and 247) is strong and cord-like. It is attached to the inner half of the fossa in front of the spine of the tibia, and to the outer border of the inner articular facet as far back as the inner tubercle of the spine. It passes upwards, backwards, and outwards to the back part of the internal surface of the external condyle. To the tibia, it is fixed behind the anterior extremity of the internal semilunar cartilage. Behind and to the outer side it has the anterior extremity of the external semilunar cartilage, a few fibres of which blend with the outer edge of the ligament. Its anterior fibres at the tibial end are strongest and longest, being fixed highest on the femur; while the posterior, springing from the spine, are shorter and more oblique. Near the spine, a slip is sometimes given off to the posterior crucial. The posterior crucial ligament (figs. 246, 247, and 248) is stronger and less oblique than the anterior. It is fixed below to the greater portion of the fossa behind the spine of the tibia, especially the outer and posterior portion, and then inwards and upwards along the popliteal notch; being joined by fibres which arise between the tubercles of the spine, it ascends to the anterior part of the outer surface of the inner condyle, having a wide crescentic attachment more than half an inch (1'5 cm.) in extent just above the articular surface. Behind, it is connected at the tibia directly with the posterior ligament, and a little higher up by means of a quantity of interposed areolar tissue. In front it rests upon the posterior horn of the internal semilunar cartilage, and receives a large slip from the external cartilage, which ascends along it either in front, or behind to the femur; higher up in front it is connected with the anterior crucial ligament. Until they rise above the spine of the tibia the two crucial ligaments are closely bound together, so that no interspace exists between their tibial attachments and the point of decussation; the only space between them is therefore a V-shaped one corresponding to the upper half of their X-shaped arrangement, and this is a mere chink in the undissected state, and can be seen from the front only, owing to the fatty tissue beneath the synovial membrane which surrounds their femoral attachment. The interarticular or semilunar fibro-cartilages (figs. 246 and 247) are two crescentic plates resting upon the circumferential portions of the articular facets of the 17