52 THE SKELETON The inferior surface forms the upper boundary of the spheno-palatine foramen, and enters into the formation of the posterior part of the roof of the nasal fossa. The superior surface lies flattened against the under surface of the pre-sphenoid. The base of the cone is in contact with the posterior surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid. The deposits of earthy matter from which the sphenoidal turbinals are formed are laid down at the fifth month. At birth these bones are visible as small triangular ossifications in the peri- chondrium of the ethmo-vomerine plate near its junction with the pre-sphenoid, and encloses a small recess which becomes a sphenoidal sinus. By the third year the recesses have become completely enclosed and the bones have become hollow Fig. 63.—The Sphenoidal Turbinals feom an Old Skull. SPHENOIDAL TURBINAL ROSTRUM OF SPHENOID cones, the circular orifice representing the base eventually becoming the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus. As the cavity enlarges, the median wall atrophies so that the inner wall of the sinus is formed by the pre-sphenoid. As the turbinal en- larges it ankyloses with adjacent bones. In many skulls it joins the lateral mass of the ethmoid; more frequently it fuses with the pre-sj}henoid; less frequently with the palate. After the twelfth year they can rarely be separated from the skull without damage. In many disarticulated skulls they are so broken up that a por- tion is found on the sphenoid, fragments on the palate bones, and the remainder attached to the ethmoid. Sometimes, even in very old skulls, they are represented by a triangular plate of extreme tenuity on each side of the rostrum of the sphenoid (fig. 63). Fig. 64.—The Inferior Turbinal, Adult Sphenoidal Turbinal and Lachrymal Bones. THE CREST OF LACHRYMAL Tensor tarsi THE ORBITAL SURFACE LACHRYMAL GROOVE HAMULAR PROCESS TURBINAL PROCESS THE LACHRYMAL PROCESS THE ETHMOIDAL PROCESS THE MAXILLARY PROCESS THE INFERIOR TURBINAL These are a pair of delicate, scroll-like bones, and may be regarded as dis- memberments of the lateral masses of the ethmoid, with which they are closely related. Each bone presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities.