557 HEP A TIC—SPLENIC anastomoses along the lesser curvature of the stomach, as already mentioned, with the gastric artery, which descends from the opposite direction. (3) The gastro-duodenal arises from the hepatic a little beyond the pyloric. It descends behind the ascending portion of the duodenum to the lower border of the pylorus, where it divides into the right gastro-epiploic and the superior pancreatico-duodenal. It varies from half an inch to an inch in length. In addition to the above branches, it may give off the inferior pyloric artery. (« ) The right gastro-epiploic, entering the anterior fold of the great omentum, coasts from right to left along the greater curvature of the stomach, and anastomoses with the left gastro-epiploic branch of the splenic, which descends from left to right also along the greater curvature to meet it. From this anastomotic arch are given off:—(i) Ascending or gastric branches, which supply the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach, and anastomose with the descending gastric branches of the arteries along the lesser curvature, (ii) Epiploic or omental branches—long slender vessels, which descend between the two anterior layers of the great omentum, and then, looping upwards, anastomose with similar slender branches given off from the middle and left colic, and passing down in like manner between the two posterior layers of the great omentum. (6) The superior pancreatico-duodenal—the smaller division of the gastro- duodenal—arises from that vessel as it passes behind the first portion of the duodenum, and courses downwards behind the peritoneum, in the anterior groove between the second portion of the duodenum and the pancreas, to anastomose with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal, a branch of the superior mesenteric, which runs upwards between the contiguous borders of the pancreas and duodenum. Both the inferior and superior pancreatico-duodenal give off branches to the duodenum and the pancreas. (c) The inferior pyloric arises either from the gastro-duodenal or from the right gastro-epiploic; it supplies the pyloric end of the stomach, and anastomoses with the other arteries in that situation. (4) The right terminal branch of the hepatic artery is given off at the portal fissure of the liver, and runs to the right towards the end of that fissure, either behind the hepatic and cystic ducts, or between these structures. At the right end of the portal fissure it divides into two or more branches, which again subdivide as they enter the liver substance for the supply of the right lobe. As it crosses the cystic duct it gives off the cystic artery. (a) The cystic artery courses forwards and downwards through the angle formed by the union of the hepatic and cystic ducts, and just before it reaches the gall-bladder divides into a superficial and deep branch. The former breaks up into a number of small vessels, which ramify over the free surface of the gall-bladder beneath the peritoneal covering, and furnish branches to the muscular and mucous coats. The deep branch ramifies between the gall-bladder and the liver-substance, supplying each, and anastomosing with the superficial branch. (5) The left terminal branch, the smaller division of the hepatic artery, runs inwards towards the left end of the portal fissure, and, after giving off a distinct branch to the Spigelian lobe, enters the left lobe of the liver. Chief variations.—(A) The hepatic artery may arise directly from the aorta, or from the gastric, the superior mesenteric, or the right renal artery. (B) Together with a normal artery there may be an accessory hepatic from one or other of the above-named or neighbouring branches. (C) The hepatic artery may be altogether wanting, and its place supplied by one or more accessory arteries derived from one or other of the above-named sources. This variation is explained by Hyrtl on the supposition that there has been obliteration of the normal hepatic, with enlargement of one or more of the minute branches which normally proceed from the aorta and the above-named branches to the capsule of the liver. 3. The Splenic Artery The splenic artery—the largest branch of the cceliac axis—arises from the left side of the termination of that vessel below the gastric, and passes along the upper border of the pancreas in a tortuous manner to the spleen. It at first lies behind the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon, but on nearing the spleen enters