THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS 1050 The anterior peritoneal or utero-vesical ligaments are two ill-defined folds which pass one on each side from the cervix uteri to the bladder. The muscular ligaments lying between the peritoneal folds are four pairs: three in the broad ligaments, the round or utero-inguinal, the utero-ovarian, and the utero-pelvic, and one in the posterior ligaments, the uterd-sacral. They have already been briefly referred to. The round or utero-inguinal ligament (fig. 639) is a cord, about five inches in length, attached to the uterus just below the Fallopian tube, and there continuous with the superficial uterine fibres. From this point it runs obliquely downwards, outwards, and forwards, immediately beneath the anterior layer of the broad ligament, to reach the pelvic wall; it then loops around the curve of the deep epigastric artery on the inner side of the external iliac artery, and enters the inguinal canal at the internal ring. In its course through the canal it is supplemented by a set of striped fibres, some derived from the muscular walls of the abdomen, others apparently of independent origin; and it may be accompanied by a tube of peri- toneum, the canal of Nuck, which is constant in the foetus and not infrequently persistent during childhood and even adult life. The ligament then gives off a few of its newly acquired striped fibres to the pillars of the ring and to the pubic spine, and, emerging from the external ring, finally breaks up into a number of delicate fasciculi which become lost amongst the interlobular connective tissue of the large pad of fat which occupies the labium majus. In structure it is composed of unstriped muscle with areolar and elastic tissue, reinforced in the inguinal canal by striated muscular fibres and funicular vessels and nerves. The funicular artery, conveyed by the round ligament, is a branch of the superior vesical. It is accompanied by a plexus of veins, and anastomoses in the labium with branches of the external pudic, and at the superior angle of the uterus with the uterine and ovarian. The utero-sacral ligaments (fig. 641) are flat muscular bands, extending from the highest part of the cervix uteri, where they are more or less continuous with the uterine fibres in the recto-uterine peritoneal folds, to the sides of the sacrum opposite the lower border of the sacro-iliac synchondroses. They run one on each side of the rectum near the junction of the first and second stages of this portion of the intestine, closely connected with its muscular coat, and more anteriorly are in lateral relation with the pouch of Douglas.