THYROID AXIS 513 with the anterior and middle cerebral arteries through the circle of "Willis is described with the branches of the internal carotid (page 504). SUMMARY OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE CEREBRAL ARTERIES Here it may be of advantage to give a brief summary of the distribution of the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries, the branches of which have already been described in detail. The branches of each are divided into the central or ganglionic, and the cortical or hemispheral. The central branches arise at the commencement of the cerebral arteries about the circle of Willis, whilst the cortical are derived chiefly from the termination of these vessels. (A) The central branches are divided into six sets—two median and four lateral. 1. The two median are—(1) The antero-median, which arise from the anterior cerebral and the anterior communicating, and supply the fore end of the caudate nucleus, and (2) the postero-median, which arise from the posterior cerebral, and supply the inner part of the optic thalamus and neighbouring wall of the third ventricle. 2. The four lateral, two on each side, are also divided into antero-lateral, and postero-lateral. (1) The antero-lateral arise from the middle cerebral, and, passing through the anterior perforated spot, supply the lenticular nucleus, the posterior part of the caudate nucleus, the internal and external capsules, and the outer part of the optic thalamus. (2) The postero-lateral arise from the posterior cerebral, and supply the hinder part of the optic thalamus, the crus, and the optic lobes or corpora quadrigemina. (B) The cortical branches ramify in the pia mater, giving off branches to the cortical substance, some of which extend through it to the underlying white sub- stance. The cortical branches of the anterior cerebral, roughly speaking, supply the median surface of the frontal lobe as far as the precuneus, the inner part of its orbital surface, and part of its convex surface, viz. the highest part of the ascend- ing frontal and the first and most of the second frontal convolutions. The cortical branches of the middle cerebral—or Sylvian artery as it is often called, because of its relation to the Sylvian fissure—supply the most important area, namely, the motor convolutions; and also the largest, namely, the inferior frontal, the ascending parietal, part of the inferior parietal, the supramarginal and angular, the posterior part of the superior parietal, the first temporal, and the anterior part of the second and third temporal convolutions. The cortical branches of the posterior cerebral supply the occipital lobe, and the inferior aspect of the temporal lobe. It will be seen, therefore, that the middle cerebral supplies the motor region, both central and cortical, except a part of the leg centre. It also supplies the region of the cortex that subserves cutaneous sensibility, the cortical auditory centre, and in part the higher visual centre. It likewise supplies all the cortical regions concerned in speech processes in the left hemisphere. The anterior cerebral supplies only a small part of the motor region—namely, the part of the leg centre that occupies the paracentral lobule and the highest part of the ascending frontal convolution. The posterior cerebral supplies the visual path from the middle of the tract backwards, and the half vision centre in the occipital lobe. It supplies also the corpora quadrigemina and the sensory part of the internal capsule. THE THYROID AXIS The thyroid axis arises from the upper and front part of the subclavian artery, usually opposite the internal mammary, and a little internal to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is a short thick trunk, and divides almost immediately into three radiating branches—namely, the inferior thyroid, the suprascapular, and the transverse cervical (fig. 330). Occasionally the posterior scapular branch of the transverse cervical arises from the third portion of the subclavian; the superficial cervical, the other branch into which the transverse cervical divides, then commonly comes off from the axis. 33