341 OPPONENS POLLICIS 2. OPPONENS POLLICIS The opponens pollicis, or flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, is named from its action, as it helps in opposing the thumb to the other fingers and at the same time is a flexor of the first metacarpal bone. It is a short, thick, triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The front of the ridge on the trapezium below the preceding; and (2) the lower and outer part of the front of the anterior annular ligament. Insertion.—The whole of the outer border of the anterior surface of the shaft of the first metacarpal bone. Structure.—Arising by a short tendinous or fleshy origin, the muscular fibres diverge fanwise to their insertion. The lower border of the muscle is often so blended with the outer head of the next muscle that the separation is somewhat artificial. Nerve-supply.—From the same source as the preceding; the filaments enter- ing the anterior surface of the muscle near to the upper part of its ulnar border. Action.—To flex the first metacarpal bone, which it draws forwards and inwards. This movement, on account of the shape of the carpo-metacarpal joint, is accompanied by a certain amount of rotation inwards, by which the palmar aspect of the thumb is made to look backwards and inwards. Relations.—Superficially, the abductor pollicis and the thenar fascia; deeply, and upon its ulnar border, the flexor brevis pollicis. It also lies upon the joint between the metacarpal bone and the trapezium. 3. FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS The flexor brevis pollicis—named from its action and short length in compari- son with the long flexor—consists of two heads: each forming a flat triangular sheet. Origin.—The outer head arises from (1) the outer two-thirds of the lower border of the anterior annular ligament; (2) the lower part of the ridge of the trape- zium. The inner head, from (1) the front of the os magnum; (2) the front of the bases of the first, second, and third metacarpal bones; and (3) from the front of the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis tendon. Insertion.—The outer and inner sides of the front of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous as well as by fleshy fibres, the two heads become tendinous a short distance above the first metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and have imbedded in their substance sesamoid bones of a somewhat hemispherical shape, and about one-sixth of an inch (nearly 1 cm.) in diameter, which rest by small articular facets covered with cartilage upon the palmar aspect of the condyles of the first metacarpal bone. Close to their insertion the tendinous fibres are blended with those of the abductor pollicis externally, and the adductor internally. In the inner head, three distinct divisions may generally be observed. The first or outermost division is a small fusiform slip which passes beneath the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis to join the outer head, and to be inserted into the radial sesa- moid bone. The second division is fan-shaped, and its fibres, which form the greater part of the inner head, converge to embrace the ulnar sesamoid bone. The third division lies under cover of the second. It is a small fleshy slip, which arises from the ulnar side of the base of the first metacarpal bone, and passes downwards to be inserted with the adductor pollicis into the ulnar side of the base of the first pha- lanx. Some authors describe this third division as the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the first and second divisions as the adductor pollicis obliquus. Nerve-supply.—The outer head is supplied (through the sixth cervical nerve) by the palmar branch of the median, which enters the middle of its anterior surface near its idnar border. The inner head is supplied (through the eighth cervical nerve) by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve which enters the upper part of its deep surface close to its ulnar border.