128 THE SKELETON for the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis. The posterior surface is convex, and marked by three prominent ridges separating three furrows. The posterior annular ligament is attached to these ridges, to the styloid process, and to the inner margin, thus forming with the bone a series of tunnels. The outermost is broad, shallow, and frequently subdivided by a low ridge. The outer subdivision is for the extensor carpi radialis longior, the inner for the extensor carpi radialis brevior. The middle groove is narrow and deep for the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The innermost is shallow and transmits the extensor indicis and the extensor communis digitorum which overlies the indicis, the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous artery and the pos- terior interosseous nerve. When the radius and ulna are articulated, an additional groove is formed for the extensor minimi digiti. Muscles.—The following muscles are attached to the radius:— Biceps. Pronator quadratus. Supinator brevis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Supinator longus. Extensor primi internodii pollicis. Pronator radii teres. Flexor longus pollicis. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Ligaments:— Oblique ligament. Posterior annular. Interosseous membrane. External lateral of wrist. Anterior radio-ulnar. Interarticular fibro-cartilage of wrist. Posterior radio-ulnar. Anterior radio-carpal. Posterior radio-carpal. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is derived from the anterior interosseous trunk; it enters the shaft near the middle of the anterior surface, and runs towards the proximal end of the bone. The head of the bone is supplied by the radial recurrent and interosseous recurrent arteries. The lower end is supplied by the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries and numerous twigs from the carpal arches. Ossification.—The radius is ossified by one primary and two secondary centres. The shaft begins to ossify at the eighth week of embryonic life. The nucleus for the lower end appears in the second year, whilst that for the upper end is deposited in the fifth year. The head ankyloses with the shaft at the seventeenth year, but consolidation is delayed at the lower end until the twentieth year. Tim HAND The skeleton of the hand consists of three parts—the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. THE CARPUS The carpus contains eight bones, arranged in two rows, four bones in each row. Enumerated from the radial to the ulnar side, the bones of the proximal row are, the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, and pisiform ; those of the distal row, the trapezium, trapezoid, magnum, and unciform. The anterior and posterior surfaces of all the carpal bones, except the pisiform and cuneiform, are non-artic- ular; the anterior surfaces of the bones of the upper row are larger than the pos- terior, but in the lower row this arrangement is reversed.