1132 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY quadratum in the diaphragm, and the membranous urethra through the triangular ligament. Effect of position of the thigh on the ring.—As the lower pillar is blended with Poupart's ligament, and as the fascia lata is connected with this, movements of the thigh will affect the ring much, making it tighter or looser. Thus extension and abduction of the thigh stretch the pillars and close the ring. In flexion and adduction of the thigh the pillars are relaxed; and this is the position in which reduction of a hernia is attempted. In flexion and abduction of the thigh, the ring is open; and this is the position in which a patient should sit, to try on a truss, and cough. If the hernia is now kept up, the truss is satisfactory. Helping to protect this most important spot, and preventing its being more than a potential ring, are not only the two pillars, and the intercolumnar fascia, but also Fig. 700.—The Parts concerned in Inguinal Hernia. (From a dissection in the Hunterian Museum.) External oblique, cut and turned back Internal oblique External oblique Conjoined tendon lis femoral a structure which has been called a third or posterior pillar, namely, the triangular fascia. This has its base above at the lower part of the linea alba, where it joins its fellow and the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and its apex downwards and outwards, where, having passed behind the internal pillar, it blends with Gimber- nat's ligament. Again, the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and trans- versalis curving inwards and downwards to be attached to the ilio-pectineal line and spine is a most powerful protection, behind, to what is otherwise a weak spot and a potential ring. INGUINAL CANAL.—This is not a canal in the usual sense, but a chink or flat- sided passage in the thickness of the abdominal wall. The descriptions of the canal usually given apply rather to the diseased than to the healthy state. It was a canal once, and for a time only, i.e. in the later months of foetal life. It remains weak for a long time after, but only a vestige of it remains in the well-made adult. On the inner surface of the abdomen we have a few inconspicuous inguinal