VESTIGIAL AND ABNORMAL STRUCTURES 1210 parietal bones and above the occipital. This bone is known as the interparietal bone, or, because it appears more frequently in ancient Peruvian skulls (live to six per cent.) than in European skulls (one to two per cent.), it is also called the os Inea?. The interparietal bone may consist of lateral halves, a condition produced hv the centres on each side failing to unite across the middle line. In a relatively small number of cases the upper segment alone may remain separate in adult life as a prae-interparietal bone, which corresponds in position with the apex of the occipital bone; this also may consist of two lateral segments. In a still smaller number of cases both interparietal and prae-interparietal bones may be present in the same skull. The interparietal bone appears first among mammals, and is best developed in some of the lower forms. The prae-interparietal bones are only constantly present in the horse. Fontanelle bones.—Accessory centres of ossification occasionally appear in the membranous wall of the skull in the regions of the anterior and posterior fontanelles, where they give rise to small segments of bone, which remain separate throughout life. The anterior fontanelle bone lies in the region of the bregma, between the parietals and the frontal, and the posterior fontanelle bone is situated at the lambda, between the parietals and the occipital. Both are of the nature of Wormian bones, and the posterior fontanelle bone must not be confounded with the prae-interparietal bone. Os Japonicum.—This term has been applied to a malar bone, which consists of two separate fragments, under the idea that a bifid condition of that bone is more common in the Japanese than in other races; but a double malar bone is not unfre- quently met with in other races, and its significance is not at present thoroughly understood. THE STERNUM Cleft sternum.—Occasionally the sternum, instead of being a single median bone, consists of two lateral parts, each part being connected with the cartilages of the true ribs of its own side. This condition is due to the persistence of one of the embryological phases through which the sternum normally passes, for in the early periods of development each half of the sternum is formed by the fusion of the cartilaginous extremities of the upper nine ribs, and thereafter the two cartilaginous bars thus produced fuse together to form the single median sternum with which the eighth and ninth ribs subsequently lose their connection. If the fusion of the two halves of the cartilaginous sternum does not occur, ossification proceeds in each half, and the condition of cleft sternum is produced. Perforated sternum.—Not unfrequently an aperture, of larger or smaller size, is found in the lower part of the body of the sternum. It is filled, in the recent condition, by fibrous tissue or by cartilage, and it is due to the non-union of the lateral centres of ossification from which the lower part of the sternum is ossified. Ossa suprasternalia.—The two small bones or round nodules of cartilage which are known as the ossa suprasternalia, or Brecht's cartilages, are found, one on each side, above the sternum and immediately internal to the sterno-clavicular joint, They are to be looked upon as rudiments of the episternal bone, which is met with in so well-developed a form in the ornithorhynchus. THE RIBS Additional ribs.—There are usually twelve pairs of ribs in the human subject, but there is embryological evidence to show that man has inherited a larger number from his predecessors. Therefore the occurrence of additional ribs is an atavistic phenomenon. In the embryo rudiments of additional ribs are found both at the upper and lower ends of the ordinary series.—at the upper end in connection with the last two cervical vertebra?, and at the lower end in connection with all the lumbar and sacral vertebra?. In the adult, however, additional ribs are only