FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITORVM 317 which contains the radial head and the more superficial fibres of the first head, the tendons to the middle and ring fingers are derived. The tendon to the middle finger receives the greater part of the radial head in penniform fashion, becoming free close to the anterior annular ligament. That to the ring finger separates high up, and is soon free from fleshy fibres. The deeper plane of the muscle is crossed by a strong tendinous intersection soon after its origin from the first head. It then gives off a fleshy band to join that part of the superficial plane which goes to the ring finger, and afterwards bifurcates to form the tendons for the index and little fingers. I am indebted to Professor Thane for calling my attention to this arrange- ment. Beneath the anterior annular ligament the tendons of the superficial plane, viz. those going to the middle and ring fingers, lie in front of the other two tendons. Here they are invested by the synovial sheath or great palmar bursa, which is com- mon to them and the other tendons which pass through this space, and which Fig. 274.—Diagram of the Great Palmar Bursa. extends from a short distance above the wrist-joint to about the middle of the palm. At the heads of the metacarpal bones the tendons enter the vaginal sheaths of the flexors of the fingers, and each tendon becomes concave behind to correspond with the convexity of the tendon of the deep flexor upon which it now rests. At the middle of the first phalanx the tendon splits, and the halves separate to allow the passage of the tendon of the flexor profundus. The two halves again unite opposite the base of the second phalanx in such a way that the parts now in con- tact are a direct continuation of what were before the borders of the tendon; while the parts of the tendon which correspond to its mesial line above are now most widely separated (see fig. 280). After a contact of about a quarter of an inch ( -6 cm.), the halves of the tendon again separate in order to be attached to the sides of the shaft of the second phalanx. Nerve-supply.—From the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus (through