THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION 920 inwards numerous prolongations from its deep surface, which pass between the lobules to surround and connect them. The lobules are irregular and many-sided, and consist of numerous lymph follicles. They are grouped around a central tubular cord of connective tissue, and when unravelled the lobe can be lengthened out, the lobules then appearing to be attached to the cord in a spiral fashion. The vessels.—The arteries are derived from the internal mammary and from the superior and inferior thyroids. The veins join the left innominate and thyroid veins. The nerves are very minute, and proceed from the sympathetic and pneumo- gastric. THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION THE LUNGS AND PLEURsE The lungs—which are tAvo in number—are the special organs of respiration, and occupy the greater portion of the chest cavity. They are separated one from the other by the heart and great vessels, and the other contents of the mediastinal spaces, and each is enclosed in a pleural sac. THE PLEURiE Each lung is closely invested by an invaginated serous sac, the pleural sac. The inner wall of the sac, which is closely attached to the lung substance and sur- rounds its root, is the visceral pleura. The outer wall of the sac is the parietal pleura, and the two parts are directly continuous at the root of the lung. The parietal pleura covers the inner surface of the thoracic wall, and it forms the lateral boundary of the mediastinal space of the thorax. Under ordinary circumstances the inner surface of the parietal pleura is in contact with the outer surface of the visceral pleura, or at the most only a thin layer of serous fluid intervenes, and both surfaces are smooth and glistening; but if the pleural sac is opened the lung shrinks, on account of its elasticity, and a space, the.pleural cavity, is developed between the two layers. For convenience of description the parietal pleura may be divided into three parts—the external or costal, the inferior or diaphragmatic, and the internal or mediastinal. The costal portion of the parietal pleura is in relation with the ribs, the costal cartilages, the contents of the intercostal spaces, the triangularis sterni, and the subcostal muscles, to which it is attached by the endothoracic fascia. The diaphragmatic portion rests upon the diaphragm, and the mediastinal part is in relation with the contents of the mediastinal space—that is, on both sides, with the pericardium, the phrenic nerve and its accompanying vessels, on the right side in addition with the ascending aorta, the superior vena cava, the vena azygos major, the right innominate vein, the innominate artery and the right vagus nerve; and on the left side the additional relations are the transverse and descend- ing portions of the aorta, the left common carotid and subclavian arteries, the thoracic duct, the left superior intercostal vein and the left vagus nerve. The upper extremity of each pleural sac extends into the neck, reaching a point an inch (25 mm.) to an inch and a half (37 mm.) above the clavicle, but never above the neck of the first rib; it is covered by a layer of fascia called Sibson's fascia; it is in relation with the subclavian artery, which lies in a groove on its 1 antero-internal aspect, and with the scalenus medius and anticus muscles. The borders of each pleural sac are anterior, inferior and posterior. On the