970 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION beginning than at the end. It varies in width at different parts from two and a half to one and a quarter inches. The length from the root of the appendix or tip of the caecum to the point where the meso-rectum ends is, in the male, about four feet eight inches, and in the female about four feet six inches. The extremes found in a number of cases, were for both sexes respectively, six feet six inches, and three feet three inches. The large intestine, in all parts except the rectum, has a peculiar arrangement of its walls, which gives it a very different appearance from the small intestine. It is sacculated, and the sacculation is produced by the gut having to adopt its length to three shorter muscular bands which run the course of the intestine. These bands, which are about 12 mm. wide and 1 mm. thick, are really the longi- tudinal fibres of the muscular wall, which are chiefly collected at three parts (fig. 575). One band is situated posteriorly on the attached border, another runs ante- riorly, and the third is situated on the inner side of the ascending and descending colon, and on the lower border of the transverse colon. All these bands start at the vermiform appendix, and are lost on the rectum. Along the whole length of the large intestine, except the lower part of the rectum, are certain small append- ages {appendices epiploicse), seen mostly along the line of the inner muscular band. They are pouches of peritoneum containing fat. The caecum, or caput coli.—The caecum is a cul-de-sac forming the first part of the large intestine. It is defined as that part of the colon which is situated Fig. 575.—The Four Types of C^cum. (Treves.) ABC D below the entrance of the ileum. Its breadth is about three inches, and its length about two and a half inches. It lies in the right iliac fossa, and is usually situated upon the psoas muscle, and so placed that its apex or lowest point is just projecting beyond the inner border of that inner muscle (figs. 565, 577). It is entirely enveloped in perito- neum, and is free in the abdominal cavity. The apex of the caecum usually cor- responds with a point a little to the inner side of the middle of Poupart's ligament. Less frequently the caecum will be found to be in relation with the iliacus muscle only; or the bulk of the caput will lie upon that muscle, while the apex rests upon the psoas. In a number of cases the caecum is entirely clear of both psoas and iliacus muscles, and hangs over the pelvic brim, or is lodged entirely within the pelvic cavity. Some part of the caecum may pass even to the left of the median line of the body. This part of the colon is liable to considerable variation. Its variations may be described under four types : 1. The foetal type is conical in shape, the appendix arising from the apex. This process is a continuation of the long axis of the colon. The three muscular bands which meet at the appendix are nearly at equal distances apart (fig. 575, A.). 2. The second form is more quadrilateral in shape than the last; the three bands retain their relative positions; the appendix appears between two bulging sacculi, instead of at the summit of a cone (fig. 575, B.). 3. In the third type, that part of the caput coli that lies to the right side of the