THE TESTICLES 1025 mis; but it leaves uncovered nearly the whole of the globus minor and the internal and posterior surfaces of the body of the epididymis, and it is in these situations that an important vascular communication is established between the gland and its coverings. The parietal layer, continuous with the visceral layer at the posterior and inferior parts of the testicle and at the point of reflexion from the spermatic cord, becomes loosely attached to the internal spermatic fascia by means of a prolongation of the abdominal subperitoneal tissue. It contains a number of unstriped muscular fibres running longitudinally and continuous with the internal cremaster. Under normal conditions, the two serous layers are in contact, the serous fluid being secreted only in sufficient quantity to moisten the opposed surfaces. An undue increase of the amount constitutes the disease known as vaginal hydrocele. Fig. 622.—The Left Testicle with Vessels and Duct. (After Sappey.) Spermatic artery Spermatic veins Branch of spermatic artery GLOBUS MAJOR OF EPIDIDYMIS HYDATID OF MORGAGNI OUTER WALL OF BODY OF TESTIS 'ttry The testicle is occasionally so rotated upon its long axis that the epididymis becomes turned towards the front of the scrotum. In this case, were a hydrocele to occur, the sac would project posteriorly. The side to which a detached testicle belongs may be distinguished by remembering that the epididymis is attached behind, and that the digital fossa of the tunica vaginalis lies on the outer side. In order to understand the relations of the organ to adjacent structures it is necessary to learn something of the mechanism of its descent. The testicle is at first an abdominal organ lying below the kidney and invested by a layer of peritoneum (mesorchium) which is firmly adherent to its surface in front and at the sides. It is, moreover, connected by bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, the gubernaculum testis, with the pillars of the external inguinal ring and with the dartos at the 65