187 BETWEEN ATLAS AND AXIS check and central occipito-odontoid ligaments, and arises also along the sides of the articular facet as far as the neck of the process; the fibres are thick, and blend with the capsules of the lateral joint. At the atlas they are attached to the non-articular part of the anterior arch in front of the tubercles for the transverse ligament, blend- ing, above and below the borders of the bone, with the anterior occipito-atlantal and atlanto-axoidean ligaments, as well as with the inner portion of the capsular ligaments. It holds the axis to the anterior arch of the atlas after all the other ligaments have been divided. The synovial membranes (figs. 195 and 196) are two in number:—one for'the joint between the odontoid process and. atlas; and another (transverso-odontoid) for that between the transverse ligament and the odontoid. This last often com- municates with the occipito-atlantal articulations; it is closed in by membranous tissue between the borders of the transverse ligament and the margin of the facet on the odontoid, and is separated from the front sac by the atlanto-odontoid capsular ligament. The arterial supply is from the vertebral artery, and the nerve-supply from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. Movements.—The chief and characteristic movement at these joints is the rotation, in a nearly horizontal plane, of the collar formed by the atlas and trans- Fig. 196.—Horizontal Section through the Lateral Masses of the Atlas and the Top of the Odontoid Process. verse ligament, round the odontoid process as a pivot, which is extensive enough to allow of an all-round view without twisting the trunk. Partly on account of its ligamentous attachments, and partly on account of the shape of the articular surfaces, the cranium must be carried Avith the atlas in these movements. The rotation is checked by the ligaments passing from the axis to the occiput (check ligaments), and also by the atlanto-axoidean. Owing to the fact that the facets of both atlas and axis, which enter into the formation of the lateral atlanto- axoidean articulations, are convex from before backwards, and have the articular cartilage thicker in the centre than at the circumference, the motion is not quite horizontal but slightly curvilinear. In the erect position, with the face looking directly forwards, the most convex portions of the articular surfaces are alone in contact, there being a considerable interval between the edges; during rotation, therefore, the prominent portions of the condyles of the atlas descend upon those of the axis, diminishing the space between the bones, slackening the ligaments, and thus increasing the amount of rotation, without sacrificing the security of the joint in the central position. Besides rotation, forward and backward movements and some lateral flexion are permitted between the atlas and axis, even to a greater extent than in most of the other vertebral joints.