111 PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE runs downwards on the side of the trachea, posterior to the right innominate vein and the superior vena cava, to reach the posterior aspect of the right bronchus. Behind the bronchus it expands into a great, flat, plexiform band, from which the posterior pulmonary plexus proceeds. The vagus then inclines inwards in the form of two cords, and communicates with the pneumogastric of the opposite side both in front and behind the oesophagus to form the oesophageal plexus (plexus guise). Having interchanged a considerable number of fibres with the other nerve, the right vagus then descends (having regained the form of one nerve) behind the oesophagus through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, and spreads out on the posterior surface of the stomach. The left vagus nerve enters the thorax behind the left common carotid artery between the latter and the left subclavian artery. As it approaches the arch of the aorta it bends suddenly backwards, and crosses the root of the subclavian artery on the left side of that vessel, immediately under cover of the pleura, It then crosses the left side (in front) of the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, and bends backwards to reach the posterior aspect of the left bronchus, where it spreads out in a similar manner to the nerve of the right side. It then descends on the oesophagus, entering into the plexus gulae, and on reaching the diaphragm passes in the form of a single trunk in front of the oesophagus into the abdominal cavity, and spreads out on the anterior surface of the stomach. At the base of the skull the vagus presents two ganglia: an upper ganglion, or ganglion of the root; and a lower, or ganglion of the trunk. The ganglion of the root is placed within the jugular foramen opposite the jugular ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. It is an irregular greyish swelling of from four to six millimetres in length. It is usually regarded as corresponding to a spinal ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk, situated a little below the preceding, is a fusiform enlargement of the nerve about twenty millimetres in length, and four to five milli- metres in transverse diameter at its thickest part. The hypoglossal nerve is firmly attached to it by connective tissue and encloses it in a spiral turn, being placed at first to the inner side of the vagus, then passing behind, then to its outer side, and finally crossing it in front. The superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic is behind and a little external to the vagus; the glosso-pharyngeal is in front of it. The accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve joins the ganglion of the trunk; some of the fibres running over the ganglion into the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches. Branches.—The branches of the vagus may be classified into (1) communicating branches; and (2) branches of distribution. (1) Communicating branches.—The vagus communicates with the following nerves:—(a) the glosso-pharyngeal to the auricular branch of the pneumogastric; (b) the spinal accessory; (c) the hypoglossal; (d) the sympathetic; and (e) the upper two spinal nerves. (a) Besides the communicating branch to the vagus just referred to, a communi- cating twig is given off from the pneumogastric, close to the base of the skull, which joins the glosso-pharyngeal nerve immediately below the petrous ganglion. (6) The spinal accessory gives some fine filaments to the ganglion of the root of the vagus within the jugular foramen. Lower down, the remainder of the accessory portion joins the ganglion of the trunk. (c) The hypoglossal furnishes two or three fine filaments to the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus. These filaments are given off by the hypoglossal as it winds round the ganglion. (d) Two or three twigs from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic join the ganglia of the trunk and root. Lower down the branches of distri- bution of the vagus communicate extensively with the sympathetic. (e) A twig passes from the loop formed by the anterior primary divisions of the upper two spinal nerves to the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus. This com- munication is not constant. (2) Branches of distribution.—These are (a) the meningeal; (6) auricular; (c) pharyngeal; (d) superior laryngeal; (e) inferior laryngeal; (/) cardiac; (g) pulmonary; (h) oesophageal; and (i) abdominal branches.