OCCIPITAL AND TEMPORAL LOBES 087 by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, has been sometimes described as the preoccipital notch. It is generally stated that the occipital lobe passes into the temporal lobe on the tentorial surface without any line of demarcation. A number of methods of marking off the occipital lobe have been proposed by different authors. These are alb largely artificial. The occipital lobe is due to a backward growth common to the parietal and temporal lobes. That growth carries with it a prolongation of the lateral ventricle, forming the posterior coruu. The occipital lobe is there- fore that part of the hemisphere which contains the posterior cornu. It may be marked off on the tentorial surface by a line drawn from the prseoccipital notch to the extremity of the parieto- occipital fissure at the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus (fig. 411). The remaining boundaries will be the parieto-occipital fissure for its eutire length and (as before) a line drawn from the extremity of the external parietooccipital fissure to the prseoccipital notch. The fissures on the convex surface of the occipital lobe are the superior, middle, and inferior occipital fissures; to these may be added the ramus occipitalis of the intraparietal fissure with its appendage the transverse occipital fissure. The superior occipital fissure may be represented by a direct continuation of the intraparietal fissure to the occipital pole of the cerebrum. More commonly, however, it is limited to the posterior part of the occipital lobe (fig. 409, right side), and is not continuous with the intraparietal fissure. The ramus occipitalis of the intraparietal fissure may be directly continued into the occipital lobe from the horizontal limb of the main fissure, or it may commence in the superior parietal lobule. In either case it passes backwards into the occipital lobe between the first and second annectant gyri, and usually terminates a short distance behind the external parieto-occipital fissure by dividing into two branches which extend upwards and downwards at right angles to the main fissure, and together constitute the transverse occipital fissure. The middle occipital fissure is often feebly developed. It is directed from before backwards and meets the superior occipital fissure at the occipital pole. The inferior occipital fissure is placed along the margin which separates the convex surface from the tentorial surface of the hemisphere. It may extend in a tortuous manner from the preoccipital notch to the occipital pole of the hemi- sphere but is often broken up by one or more convolutions crossing it. The convolutions on the convex surface are three in number, and are imper- fectly marked off from one another by the fissures above described. They pass from before backwards and become confluent at the occipital pole. The superior occipital convolution is placed between the superior occipital fissure and the margin of the great longitudinal fissure. It is continuous with the cuneus on the inner surface of the hemisphere, and is joined in front by the first annectant gyrus to the superior parietal lobule. The middle occipital convolution is situated between the superior and middle occipital fissures, and is united in front to the angular gyrus by the second and third annectant gyri. The inferior occipital convolution occupies the interval between the middle and inferior occipital fissures, and may be connected to the middle temporal convo- lution by a fourth annectant gyrus. The annectant gyri are four small sagittally-directed convolutions which cross the boundary line which separates the occipital from the parietal and temporal lobes. They are numbered from above downwards. The first and second of these are the most constant and are placed one on each side of the ramus occipitalis of the intraparietal fissure. The third and fourth are not infre- quently absent as they may be cut through by a fissure, the sulcus occipitalis anterior. The sulcus occipitalis anterior is an inconstant fissure which is parallel to, and placed a little in front of, the anterior boundary of the occipital lobe on the convex surface of the hemisphere. The TEMPORAL LOBE (temporo-sphenoidal lobe) is sharply marked off in front by the Sylvian fissure, but. as we have already seen, it passes behind without any surface line of demarcation into the parietal and occipital lobes. Its anterior extremity forms a bold prominence directed downwards and forwards (the temporal pole of Broca). It has four surfaces: an external, forming part of the general con- vexity of the hemisphere; an inferior, which rests on the great wing of the sphe- noid and the adjacent part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; a tentorial