THE SKELETON 26 ance, is seen. The vertical ridge runs upwards to the superior angle of the hone and furnishes attachment for the falx cerebri; the portion of the ridge below the protuberance, the internal occipital crest, is for the falx cerebelli. As it approaches the foramen magnum this ridge divides, becoming lost upon its margins. The angle of divergence is sometimes occupied by a shallow fossa for the extremity of the vermiform process of the cerebellum, and is called the vermiform fossa. The horizontal ridge is deeply grooved; to the edges of the groove the tentorium cere- belli is attached; the grooves lodge the greater part of the lateral sinuses. To one side of the internal occipital protuberance, usually the right, the furrow for the sinus is deeper and frequently forms a circular fossa which receives the torcular. This fossa is sometimes exactly in the middle line. The squamo-occipital has three angles and four borders. The superior angle fits into the space formed by the union of the two parietals. The lateral angles mark the external limits of the middle nuchal lines, and occupy the angle formed by the parietal and mastoid portion of the petrosal on each side. The ridge Fig. 31.—Occipital Bone, Cerebral Surface. superior angle BASI-OCCIPIT AL between the superior and lateral angles is the superior border; it- is serrated deeply, and articulates with the posterior border of the parietal to form the lamb- doid suture. The inferior border extends from the lateral angle to the jugular process ; it articulates with the mastoid portion of the petrosal. The ex-occipitals form the lateral boundaries of the foramen magnum. The lateral surface of each ex-occipital is extended outwards to form a quadrilateral buttress of bone, the jugular process. This has an outer rough surface for articu- lation with the jugular surface of the petrosal. Its anterior border is deeply notched to form the posterior boundary of the jugular foramen, and the notch is directly continuous with a groove on the upper surface which lodges the termination of the lateral sinus. Its under surface gives attachment to the rectus capitis lateralis and the oblique occipito-atlantal ligament. The pneumatic mastoid cells occasionally extend into this process. Rarely a process of bone projects from its under surface and represents the paroccipital process present in many mammals. The rest of the ex-occipitals enter into the formation of the condyles, and will be separately de- scribed.