ANTERIOR ASPECT OF THE SKULL 73 An elongated furrow, the scaphoid fossa, for the tensor palati muscle and the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The general cavity of the pterygoid fossa which lodges the tensor palati and internal pterygoid muscles. Frequently there is a notch in the external pterygoid plate close beside the foramen ovale. The posterior termination of the Vidian canal. If a line be drawn across the skull-base from one zygomatic tubercle to the other, it will fall immediately behind the external pterygoid plate and bisect the foramen spinosum on each side. A second transverse line, drawn across the opisthion or posterior margin of the foramen magnum, will fall behind the mastoid processes. The space between these imaginary lines may be called the sub-cranial region ; that behind the second line the sub-occipital region. In addition to these there is a lateral space anterior to the first line known as the zygomatic region. Each will require separate consideration. The sub-cranial region is formed by the following bones:—In the centre, the under surface of the bodies of the sphenoid and occipital bones. Laterally, the pe- trosal, a small piece of the greater wing of the sphenoid and of the squamosal, and part of the occipital. It presents the following points in the middle line for study:— The pharyngeal tubercle. The foramen magnum and the occipital condyles. The most anterior point of the foramen is"termed the basion, and the most posterior point the opisthion. On each side will be seen:—The anterior condyloid foramen for the hypo- glossal nerve and a meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery. The posterior condyloid fossa with the posterior condyloid foramen (this foramen is not constant). The sphenotic (middle lacerated) foramen and the orifice of the Vidian canal. The canalis musculo-tubarius for the tensor tympani muscle and Eustachian tube. The carotid canal. Aqueductus cochleae, or ductus perilymphaticus. The jugular foramen and fossa for the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves, the internal jugular vein, and a meningeal branch of the ascend- ing pharyngeal artery. The tympanic canaliculus for Jacobson's nerve. (Tynq:>anic of glosso- pharyngeal. ) The alar spine of the sphenoid; this is sometimes fifteen millimetres in length. The glenoid fossa with the Glaserian fissure. This lodges the slender pro- cess of the malleus, the tympanic twig of the internal maxillary artery. A small passage beside it, the canal of Huguier, conducts the chorda tympani nerve from the tympanum. The external auditory meatus. The auricular fissure for the tympanic branch of the vagus. The tympanic plate and vaginal process. The styloid process. The stylo-mastoid foramen for the stylo-mastoid artery and the exit of the facial nerve. The mastoid process with the digastric and occipital grooves. The sub-occipital region presents chiefly muscular ridges. They are the superior, middle, and inferior nuchal lines, with the external occipital protuber- ance and the external occipital crest. Behind the mastoid process is an opening of variable size, the mastoid foramen; a branch of the occipital artery enters, and a vein from the lateral sinus issues from this foramen. The anterior aspect of the skull is oval in outline, but presents a very irregular surface. Its upper portion, or forehead, presents the frontal eminences and superciliary ridges. In the middle line is the prominence formed by the nasal bones, with a deep pyramidal recess, the orbits, on each side. Below the nasal bones are the entrances to the nasal sinuses and the various recesses connected with them. The teeth form a conspicuous feature in this view of the skull, the outline of which is completed by the mandible.