1077 APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN THE APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN Under this heading are included sudoriparous and sebaceous glands, hair, and nails. The sudoriparous glands, which secrete the sweat, and probably a certain amount of oily matter in addition, have their origin in a single coiled tube, which forms a spheroidal glomerulus in the deeper part of the derm, or even in the subcu- taneous tissue, and is continued into an excretory duct that pierces the interpapillarv spaces of the derm, and traverses the epiderm in a sinuous or spiral course to open on the surface. They are most numerous on the palms and soles, least so on the back of the neck and trunk and on the lower limbs. Sappey estimates the total number over the whole body at 2,000,000. The glomeruli range from one two- hundred and fiftieth of an inch (0'1 mm.) to a line (2 mm.) in diameter, and are largest in the axilla and groin and about the mammary areola. The tube wall consists of an epithelial layer of prismatic nucleated cells, supported partly by an incomplete layer of cells, believed to be those of unstriped muscular fibre, partly by a structureless membrana propria lying outside the last and continuous with tbe basement membrane of the derm. The ' muscular' layer is absent in the excre- tory duct. Allied to the sudoriparous glands are the ceruminous glands of the external auditory meatus, which have the same structure, but primitively open into the hair-follicles; and the ciliary glands of Moll, opening on the free border of the lids, which do not form glomeruli. Tbe sebaceous glands are found over the whole area of the skin except on the palms and soles. They differ from the sudoriparous glands in their racemose form, in their almost constant relation to the hairs, in the oily nature of their secretion, and in their comparatively superficial position. The greater number discharge their contents into the hair-follicles, one, two, or more being attached to each hair; others open directly on to the surface, and either present a rudimentary hair emerging from the excretory duct or are altogether unconnected with.hairs, as in the labia minora and mammary areola. It is these last which attain the greatest size. Their acini are invested by bands of unstriped muscles which aid in the expulsion of their contents, and in the case of the larger hairs act as ' arrectores pilorum.' Tbe nails are essentially an epidermic specialisation. Rudimentary in man, they are largely developed in many of the lower animals, taking the form of claws or hoofs. In man the nail appears as a horny plate on the dorsal aspect of the terminal phalanx of the digit; it is straight, or nearly so, in its longitudinal axis, but curved in the opposite direction, with the convexity outwards. The entire nail is divided into a root, thin, soft, and buried in a fold of skin; a body, hard and keratinised, longitudinally ridged on its dorsal aspect, and extending from the root to the line at which the appendage ceases to be connected with the skin; and a free extremity, which, unless restrained by artificial means, tends to grow into a claw-like form and may curve over strongly towards the palmar surface of the digit. The point at which this joins the pulp of the finger is called the angle. The colour of the nail varies in its different parts. The greater part of the body has a pinkish tint which maybe expelled by pressure, and depends upon the vessels beneath; but near the root is a white crescent, the lunula, most largely developed on the thumb, least on the little finger, where it is often concealed by the overlap- ping border. The free extremity is semitransparent and almost colourless. The surface of the nail, especially that of the thumb, may under certain cir- cumstances present transverse furrows and ridges corresponding to irregularities of nutrition; and as the growth of the entire length of the nail occupies on the average about six months, it is sometimes possible to surmise roughly, by an ungual inspection, the physical history of the person within that period. Hairs.—Man, like the rest of the mammalia, is a hairy animal, but the greater part of his hirsute covering assumes the form of a scarcely visible down. It attains a considerable development only in certain regions, and it is lacking on the flexor surface of the hands and feet and their digits, on the back of the terminal phalanges, and at certain reflections of the integument, as the prepuce and glans penis, the inner aspect of the labia majora and the labia minora, The distribution of larger