THE VAGINA 1043 quarters of an inch (18 mm.) by the peritoneal cul-de-sac called the pouch of Douglas, in the middle by subperitoneal connective tissue, and below by the tissues of the perinaeal body. In the latter situation the two canals diverge, and the perinaeal body hence appears on sagittal section as a triangle the base of which is formed by the integument. Laterally, it is in contact with the vaginal branch of the uterine artery, and a venous plexus lying in the subperitoneal tissue at the base of the broad ligaments. It is crossed obliquely in its upper third by the ure- ters, and in its lower two-thirds by the anterior borders of the levatores ani. The finger passed within the passage and pressed to either side may be made to feel the resistance of the pelvic wall, and to distinguish the presence or absence of morbid growths or effusions. The duct of Gartner, a relic of the Wolffian duct, may occasionally be found by the side of the upper half of the vagina as a minute tube or fibrous cord. Two orifices which open into the vagina near the meatus, some- times called Skene's tubes, are regarded by some morphologists as the terminations of Gartner's ducts. The lower end of the vagina pierces the triangular ligament, and it is here that Fig. 634.—Horizontal Section of Vagina and adjacent Structures. (After Henle.) the resistance to dilatation is greatest. The inlet may be temporarily narrowed by the engorgement of the bulbi vestibuli, or by the action of the constrictor vaginae, and perhaps also by that of the levatores ani. The mucous surface of the lower half or two-thirds of the vagina presents on the anterior wall a median longitudinal ridge or carina, and on the posterior wall two ridges, the columnar rugarum, from all of which pass a number of transverse rugae. These markings diminish in distinctness with advance in age and with successive parturitions. The membrane is of a pale rose colour in periods of quiescence, but becomes turgid during the catamenial period, and in pregnancy. The hymen has been a subject of much speculation amongst the learned and unlearned of all ages. Its very existence was at one time denied by many great authorities, and the significance to be attached to its presence or absence is still a question in medical jurisprudence. It appears in the virgin as an imperfect septum pierced by an irregular aperture which usually reaches to the anterior vaginal wall, and leaves a fold of semilunar form behind; but it may be represented by a circular curtain pierced by one, two, or more apertures. It varies greatly in strength and elasticity, and although it is nearly always ruptured by the first act of sexual con-