THE MUSCLES 362 Variations.—The posterior part of the muscle may form a distinct slip. Accessory bundles from the semi-membranosus or biceps may join the lower tendon. The upper border of the muscle may be blended with the quadratus femoris. 4. GRACILIS The gracilis—named from its form {gracilis = slender)—is long and ribbon- shaped. Origin.—The inner edge of the anterior surface of the body and descending ramus of the os pubis from about the middle of the symphysis to the junction of the rami of the pubes and ischium. Insertion.—The inner surface of the tibia below its inner tuberosity, behind the insertion of the sartorius. Structure.—Arising by a broad and thin aponeurosis, the muscular fibres pass down the inner surface of the thigh almost parallel to one another, but with a slight convergence, so that the muscle in descending increases in thickness as it diminishes in breadth. About two inches (5 cm.) above the inner condyle it becomes a rounded flattened tendon. This runs behind the inner condyle, and, after forming one of the two hamstring tendons which can be easily felt at the inner border of the popliteal space, it passes forwards to be inserted in a slightly ex- panded form below the inner tuberosity. A few fibres pass from its lower border to the deep fascia of the leg. Nerve-supply.—From the third and fourth nerves of the lumbar plexus by a branch from the superficial division of the obturator nerve which enters the deep surface of the muscle above its middle. Action.—To adduct the thigh and flex the knee. When the knee is flexed, it will help in rotating the leg inwards. Relations.—It lies superficially in its whole course under cover of the fascia lata. Upon its deep surface lie the adductor brevis and magnus, and lower down the semi-membranosus muscle. It has in front of it the sartorius muscle which overlaps it slightly at the lower part of the thigh, and behind it is the tendon of the semi-tendinosus. The internal lateral ligament of the knee and a large bursa lie beneath its tendon. 5. OBTURATOR EXTERNUS The obturator externus (figs. 286, 289, and 290)—named from its attachment to the obturator membrane upon its outer surface—is a triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The inner half of the anterior surface of the obturator membrane; (2) the descending ramus of the os pubis immediately internal to the foramen; (3) the ascending ramus of the ischium internal to the foramen. Insertion.—The digital fossa upon the inner surface of the great trochanter. Structure.—It is a fan-shaped triangular muscle which arises fleshy from the adjacent surfaces of bone and membrane, in a curve which is convex forwards and inwards. From this wide origin the fibres converge outwards, and end below the acetabulum in a rounded tendon which passes behind and in close contact with the capsule of the joint to its insertion in the digital fossa. Not unfrequently a small portion of the muscle is separated at its upper border from the rest by one or both of the divisions of the obturator nerve. Nerve-supply.—From the third and fourth nerves of the lumbar plexus by the deep division of the obturator nerve which distributes filaments to the deep surface of the muscle as it is passing through it. Action.—To adduct and rotate outwards the thigh. Relations.—Behind, the obturator vessels, and at its insertion the quadratus femoris; in front, the psoas muscle, the pectineus, and adductor brevis; above, the obturator nerve, one or both branches of which perforate it, and more externally the capsule of the hip-joint.