PORTAL The right gastro-epiploic vein accompanies the artery of that name. It runs from left to right along the greater curvature of the stomach, receiving branches from the anterior and posterior surfaces of that viscus, and from the great omentum, and, passing behind the first portion of the duodenum, ends in the superior mesen- teric vein just before that vessel joins the portal trunk. The pancreatico-duodenal vein runs with the corresponding arteries between the head of the pancreas and the second portion of the duodenum, and ends in the superior mesenteric vein a little below the spot where that vessel is joined by the right gastro-epiploic vein. The splenic vein issues as several large branches from the hilum of the spleen. These soon unite to form a large trunk, which passes across the aorta and spine in company with the splenic artery, below which it lies, to join at nearly a right angle Fig. 394.—The Inferior Mesenteric Vein. (The colon is turned up, and the small intestines are drawn to the right side.) Middle colic artery Inferior pancreatico- duodenal artery Superior mesenteric artery Eight colic artery Abdominal aorta Vena cava inferior Riyht common iliac artery Middle sacral artery and vein Left colic artery Inferior mesenteric vein Inferior mesenteric artery Left colic artery Inferior mesenteric artery Left common iliac vein Sigmoid artery Superior hemor- rhoidal artery the superior mesenteric vein. In this course it lies behind the pancreas; and at its union with the superior mesenteric to form the vena porta, in front of the inferior vena cava. Tributaries.—It receives veins corresponding to the vasa brevia arteries from the cardiac end of the stomach, the left gastro-epiploic vein, veins from the pancreas, and the inferior mesenteric vein. The left gastro-epiploic vein accompanies the left gastro-epiploic artery. It runs from right to left along the greater curvature of the stomach, receives branches from the stomach and omentum, and opens into the commencement of the splenic vein. The inferior mesenteric vein begins at the rectum in the superior and middle hsemorrhoidalveins. It passes out of the pelvis with the inferior mesenteric artery; but, after receiving the veins corresponding with the sigmoid and left colic branches