457 RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR—LONG US COLLI Action.—To flex the head, and slightly to rotate it to the same side. Relations.—In front, the internal and common carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, and the upper part of the pharynx; behind, the rectus capitis anticus minor, and part of the longus colli. 2. RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR The rectus capitis anticus minor—named from its direction, position, and size—is thick and ribbon-shaped, and continues the series of the anterior intertrans- versales. Origin.—The upper surface of the lateral mass of the atlas in front of the articular process. Insertion.—The under surface of the basilar portion of the occipital bone in front of the foramen magnum, but not as far inwards as the preceding muscle. Structure.—Parallel or slightly divergent fleshy fibres which run upwards and inwards. Nerve-supply.—The first cervical nerve, which sends a filament to its front surface. Action.—To flex the head. Relations.—In front, the rectus capitis anticus major; behind, the anterior occipito-axial ligament. 3. LONGUS COLLI The longus colli—named from its length and the region in which it lies—is a compound muscle, and forms an elongated triangular sheet with the base running vertically along the outer border of the anterior common ligament, and the obtuse apex directed outwards. It consists of three portions: one mesial, the vertical; and two lateral, the upper and lower oblique portions. Vertical portion :— Origin.—Lateral part of front of bodies of last two cervical and first three thoracic vertebrae, external to the anterior common ligament. Insertion.—Lateral part of front of bodies of second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. Lower oblique portion :— Origin.—Lateral part of front of bodies of the first three thoracic vertebrae. Insertion.—The front of the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras. Upper oblique portion :— Origin.—The front of the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae. Insertion.—The under surface and side of the anterior tubercle of the atlas. Structure.—All three portions arise by short tendons, then become fleshy, and are inserted by short tendons, with the exception of the superior oblique portion, which has a fleshy attachment to the tubercle of the atlas. Nerve-supply.—The anterior branches from the cervical nerves soon after their emergence. Action.—To flex the neck; and also by its oblique portions slightly to rotate and laterally flex it. Relations.—In front, the pharynx, oesophagus, great vessels of the neck, the inferior thyroid artery, the sympathetic cord, the pneumogastric nerve, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve; behind, the vertebral column, and, under cover of the lower oblique portion, the vertebral artery.