408 THE MUSCLES and testicle, with their convexities directed downwards and closely connected with the fascia propria of the testicle; finally, they collect into a narrow tendinous band, which is attached to the spine and crest of the pubes. (2) A group of divergent fleshy fibres, which pass from the origin downwards and inwards to be lost upon the fascia propria. (3) A smaller group, which descend from the tendinous inser- tion to be lost in a similar manner upon the front of the fascia propria. Between these fleshy fibres, which are often thin and difficult to recognise, there is a layer of connective tissue, called the cremasteric fascia, which unites them and forms one of the coverings of the testicle and cord. Nerve-supply.—The genital branch of the genito-crural, from the first and second lumbar nerves, gives off numerous filaments which enter the muscle upon its deep and posterior aspect. Action.—To raise the testicle, and draw it upwards towards the external abdominal ring. This action is involuntary, and is usually of a reflex character, being readily excited by any irritation of the adjacent skin either of the scrotum or thigh. Relations.—Superficially, the external oblique aponeurosis above, the inter- columnar fascia, dartos, and integuments below; deeply, the spermatic cord and testicle with its fascia propria. 3. TRANSVERSALIS ABDOMINIS The transversalis abdominis—named from the general direction of its fibres— is an irregularly quadrilateral curved sheet, partly muscular, partly aponeurotic. Origin.—(1) The inner surface of the cartilages of the last six ribs, close to their junction with the ribs, by teeth which interdigitate with the attachments of the diaphragm; (2) the strong aponeurosis called the lumbar fascia, which arises (a) by its anterior layer from the front of the transverse processes of the five lumbar vertebrae, (6) by its middle layer from the tips of the transverse processes of the five lumbar vertebrae, (c) by its posterior layer from the general vertebral aponeurosis which is attached to the spines of the thoracic, lumbar, and sacral vertebrae; (3) the anterior two-thirds of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium; (4) the outer third of Poupart's ligament. Insertion.—(1) The whole length of the linea alba; (2) the anterior border of the crest of the pubes; (3) the inner end of the ilio-pectineal line for about one inch and a half (4 cm. ). Structure.—Arising by short tendinous intermixed with fleshy fibres, the muscle passes transversely forwards, diverging slightly to its insertion. The change from fleshy to aponeurotic fibres is in a curved line, the upper and lower extremities of which approach the linea alba more closely than in the central part of the muscle. In the upper part the fleshy fibres are overlapped in front by the rectus muscle; and at the lower border of the muscle where it terminates in a small arch, passing over the spermatic cord or round ligament, the fleshy fibres cease just above the middle of Poupart's ligament. The muscles of the two sides, joined as they are by the central aponeurosis, may be looked upon as a single muscle with a central aponeurosis, like the diaphragm. In its upper three-fourths the anterior aponeurosis is closely blended with the posterior division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle, and forms the hinder part of the sheath of the rectus in this region. In the lower fourth, the anterior aponeurosis is blended with the undivided aponeurosis of the internal oblique, and passes in front of the rectus muscle and the pyramidalis. The posterior aponeurosis, or lumbar fascia, consists of strong transverse fibres. The middle layer is the strongest, and has in its substance fibrous bands passing outwards from the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra?, and continuing the series of the ribs connected with the dorsal transverse processes. Between this middle layer and the anterior layer which springs from the front of the tips of the transverse processes is placed the quadratus lumborum; and a thickening of this anterior layer passing from the tips of the transverse processes of the first and second lumbar vertebrae to the lowest rib, called the ligamentum