956 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION creas, which separate it from the vertebral column; next it reaches the anterior of the two internal surfaces of the spleen in front of the hilum. Here it meets with another layer of peritoneum, and helps to form the gastro-splenic omentum. Leaving the spleen, it changes its direction, and runs to the right to the stomach, forming the posterior layer of the gastro-splenic omentum; it covers the posterior surface of the stomach, and leaves its upper border to form the posterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum, and then passes upwards and to the right to the liver. In this transverse section, it is only seen passing on the right to the hepatic vessels, where it forms the posterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Here it bends sharply round and forms the anterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum; and passing to the left reaches the stomach, which it covers in front. It then forms the Fig. 563.—Diagram to show the Peritoneum as seen in a vertical Section. (Alleu Thomson.) GASTRO-HEPATIC OM ST TRANSVERSE MES! SMALL INT anterior layer of the gastro-splenic omentum, and once more reaches the spleen. It passes right round the spleen to the back of the hilum, where it is reflected on to the left kidney (fig. 562). Hence the peritoneum passes along the side and front of the abdomen to the point from which it started. In this section the liver is so divided as to appear separated from all connection with the other viscera and the abdominal wall, and to be surrounded by peritoneum. The course of the peritoneum in a longitudinal section of the body will now be considered (fig. 563). Starting at the umbilicus, and passing downwards, the peritoneum is seen to line the anterior abdominal wall. Before reaching the pelvis it covers also the urachus, the deep epigastric arteries, and obliterated hypogastric arteries, which can be seen to form ridges beneath it. For some little way above the os pubis the peritoneum is loosely connected with the abdominal wall, a cir-