SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1186 but the posterior surface of the posterior crucial, which is connected by means of fibro-areolar tissue to the front of the ligamentum posticum, and the lower portions of both crucial ligaments, where they are united together, of course cannot receive a complete covering from the membrane' (Morris). From the above ligaments the membrane is conducted, lining the lower part of the capsule and other ligaments, to the semi-lunar cartilages, first over their upper surfaces to their free borders, and then along their under surfaces to the tibia. Between the outer of these and the upper and back part of the tibia is a prolongation of the synovial membrane to facilitate the play of the popliteus tendon. Special folds, with their packing of fat, the ligamenta alaria and mucosa, pass between the femur and patella. The following bursae about the knee-joint must be remembered. Some, it will be seen, are much more constant than others:— A. In front.—(1) One between the patella and skin, the bursa prepatellaris (fig. 751); (2) a deeper one between the ligamentum patella? and the upper part of the tibia; (3) between the skin and the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia. This is not constant. B. On the inner side.—(1) One between the inner head of the gastrocnemius and inner condyle, often extending between the above muscle and the semi-mem- branosus. This is the largest of the bursae about the knee-joint, and, after adult life, usually communicates with the knee-joint; (2) one superficial to the internal lateral ligament, between it and the tendon of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- tendinosus; (3) one beneath the ligament, between it and the tendon of the semi- membranosus; (4) one between the inner tuberosity of the tibia and the semi-mem- branosus; (5) one between the semi-membranosus and semi-tendinosus. Of the above bursa?, the first two alone are constant. The second and third are often one bursa prolonged. C. On the outer side.—(1) One between the outer head of the gastrocnemius and the condyle; (2) one superficial to the external lateral ligament between it and the biceps tendon; (3) one under the ligament between it and the popliteus tendon; (4) one between the popliteus tendon and the outer condyle of the femur. This is usually a diverticulum from the synovial membrane. The following explanations may be given of an inflamed knee-joint usually taking the flexed position: (1) By experimental injections, Braune found that the capacity of the synovial sac reaches its maximum with a definite degree of flexion, i.e. at an angle of twenty-five degrees. (2) As the same nerves supply the synovial membrane and the muscles which act upon the joint, the flexors being more powerful than the extensors, will help to explain the flexed position (Hilton). Anastomoses around the front and sides of the knee-joint.—The most important of these take the form of three transverse arches. (1) The highest passes through the quadriceps fibres just above the upper edge of the patella. It is formed by a branch from the deep division of the anastomotica and one from the superior external articular. The middle and lowest arches lie under the ligamentum patellae. (2) The middle arch, formed by branches from the anasto- motica and superior internal articular on the inner side, and the inferior external articular, on the outer, runs in the fatty tissue close to the apex of the patella. (3) The lowest arch lies on the tibia just above its tubercle, and results from the anastomosis of the recurrent tibial and the inferior internal articular. Six arteries thus take place in this series of anastomoses. POPLITEAL SPACE In flexion, the hollow of this space appears; in extension it is obliterated and its boundaries are ill-defined, the only one now to be made out being the semi- tendinosus and the biceps. Popliteal tendons.—"When the knee is a little bent, and the foot rests on the ground, the following can be made out: At the outer side, behind the ilio-tibial band, and descending to the head of the fibula, is the tendon of the biceps. Parallel and close to its inner border, the external popliteal nerve