ATTOLLENS AUREM—ATTRAHENS AUREM 431 Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin at the middle of the eyebrow. Structure.—A small wisp of fleshy fibres, closely connected with the orbital portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum. It passes outwards, and at the same time slightly upwards and forwards, to the under surface of this muscle, and, diverging slightly, its fibres pass between the interlacing fibres of the orbicularis and frontalis to their insertion into the skin. Nerve-supply.—The temporal branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, which enters its deep surface from the outer side. Action.—To draw the middle of the eyebrow inwards and slightly downwards. In the adult this causes vertical wrinkles to form between the eyebrows, and gives a frowning aspect to the face, as when a difficulty occurs either in thought or action. In the crying infant, the effect of its contraction is to cause dimples about the centre of the eyebrows, which may usually be observed just before the orbiculares palpebrarum close the eyes. Relations.—Superficially, the orbicularis palpebrarum; deeply, the frontal bone. For The Muscles of the Eye, see pages 854-7. THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES OF THE AURICLE The extrinsic muscles of the auricle (fig. 309)—viz. the attollens aurem, the attrahens aurem, and the retrahens aurem—are feeble, and almost vestigial in man. They are closely connected with the occipito-frontalis. The largest of the three is the attollens aurem. 1. ATTOLLENS AUREM The attollens aurem—named from its action as an elevator of the auricle—is a thin triangular sheet. Origin.—The epicranial aponeurosis, a short distance below the top of the temporal ridge. Insertion.—The inner surface of the pinna of the auricle, over a space which corresponds to the fossa of the antihelix upon its outer surface. Structure.—A thin, fan-shaped sheet, consisting of muscular fibres and bands of connective tissue, which all converge from above upon a flat tendon just above the point of insertion. Nerve-supply.—The temporal branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, by filaments which enter the front of the deep surface. Action.—To draw upwards the auricle.* Relations.—Superficially, the skin; deeply, the temporal fascia and auriculo- temporal nerve. 2. ATTRAHENS AUREM The attrahens aurem—named from its action in drawing forwards the auricle— is a smaller and very thin triangular sheet. Origin.—The lateral border of the epicranial aponeurosis in front of and below the level of the preceding, with which it is usually continuous. Insertion.—The front of the inner surface of the helix. Structure.—It consists of a thin stratum of muscular fibres, intermingled with connective tissue, lying upon the temporal fascia, and converging backwards and downwards upon a feeble flat tendon. Nerve-supply.—The same as the preceding. Action.—To draw forwards and upwards the auricle. Relations.—Superficially, the skin; deeply, the temporal fascia, temporal artery, and auriculo-temporal nerve.