GL UTEAL—HYPOGASTRIC— VESICAL 569 3. THE GLUTEAL ARTERY The gluteal artery, the largest branch of the posterior division of the internal iliac, comes off as a short, thick trunk from the outer and back part of that vessel, of which indeed it may be regarded as the continuation. Passing backwards between the first sacral nerve and the lumbo-sacral cord through an osseo-tendinous arch formed by the margin of the bone and the upper edge of the pelvic fascia, it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the pyriformis muscle in company witli its vein and the superior gluteal nerve. At its exit posteriorly from the great sciatic foramen it lies under cover of the gluteus maximus and beneath the gluteal vein, and in front of the superior gluteal nerve. It here breaks up into two chief branches, a superficial and a deep. Its emergence from the pelvis is indicated on the surface by a point situated at the junction of the posterior with the middle third of a line drawn from the anterior superior to the posterior superior spine of the ilium. Branches of the gluteal artery:— (0) Within the pelvis, branches are distributed to the obturator interims, the pyriformis, the levator ani, the coccygeus, and the pelvic bones. (6) External to the pelvis, the artery divides into a superficial and deep branch. (1) The superficial branch breaks up into a number of large vessels for the supply of the upper portion of the gluteus maximus, some of them piercing the muscle and supplying the skin over it, and anastomosing with the posterior branches of the lateral sacral arteries; whilst one of larger size, emerging from the muscle near the iliac crest, anastomoses with the deep circumflex iliac artery. The lower branches to the muscle anastomose with branches of the sciatic. (ii) The deep branch subdivides into a superior and an inferior branch, (a) The superior skirts along the line of origin of the gluteus minimus, between the gluteus medius and the bone, and, emerging in front from beneath these muscles under cover of the tensor fasciae femoris (fig. 368), anastomoses with the ascending branch of the external circumflex and deep circumflex iliac arteries. (/3) The inferior branch passes forwards between the gluteus medius and minimus, accompanied by the branch to the tensor fascia? femoris of the inferior division of the superior gluteal nerve towards the great trochanter, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the external circumflex. It supplies branches to the contiguous muscles and to the hip-joint. The deep branch before its division gives off the external nutrient artery of the ilium. Branches of the Anterior Division of the Internal Iliac Artery 1. THE HYPOGASTRIC ARTERY The hypogastric artery, the main trunk of the internal iliac in the foetus, is the apparent continuation of the anterior branch of the internal iliac. Passing forwards along the side of the pelvis, it enters the lateral false ligament of the bladder, where, after giving off one or more vesical branches, it ceases to be pervious as it passes on to the side and upper part of the bladder. Thence it ascends, under cover of the anterior false ligament, as a fibrous cord, to the umbilicus, where it is joined by its fellow of the opposite side. As it lies in the lateral false ligament it is crossed by the vas deferens. 2. THE VESICAL ARTERIES The vesical arteries are divided into the superior, middle, and inferior. (1) The superior vesical artery—though usually described as a branch of the internal iliac, inasmuch as it is apparently given off from the anterior division of