212 THE A R TICULA TIONS 1. The Superior Intersternal Articulation. Class.—A m ph iarthrosis. The lower border of the manubrium and the upper border of the body of the sternum present oval-shaped, flat surfaces, with their long axes transverse, and covered with a thin layer of hyaline cartilage. An interosseous fibro-cartilage is interposed between the bony surfaces: it corresponds exactly in shape and inti- mately adheres to them. At each lateral border this fibro-cartilage enters into the formation of the second chondro-sternal articulation (fig. 217). In consistence it varies, being in some cases uniform throughout, in others softer in the centre than at the circumference, and in others again an oval-shaped synovial cavity is found towards its anterior part. When such a cavity exists in the fibro-cartilage this joint has a remote resemblance to the diarthrodes, and is classed, with the sacro-iliac joint and the symphysis pubis under similar conditions, as ' diarthro-amphi- arthrosis.' The periosteum passes uninterruptedly over the joint from one segment of the sternum to the other, forming a kind of capsular ligament. This capsule is strengthened, especially on its posterior aspect, by longitudinal ligamentous fibres as well as by the radiating and decussating fibres of the chondro-sternal ligaments. In some instances the fibro-cartilage is replaced by short bundles of fibrous tissue which unite the cartilage-coated articular bony surfaces. 2. The Inferior Intersternal Articulation. Class.—Synarthrosis. The gladiolus is joined to the xiphoid cartilage by a thick investing membrane, by anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres, and by radiating fibres of the sixth and seventh chondro-sternal ligaments. The chondro-xiphoid ligament also connects the xiphoid with the anterior surface of the sixth and seventh costal cartilages, and thus indirectly with the gladiolus; and some fine fibro-areolar tissue also connects the xiphoid with the back of the seventh costal cartilage. The junction of the xiphoid with the sternum is on a level somewhat posterior to the junction of the seventh costal cartilage with the sternum. The union is synarthrodial. (6) The Costo-chondral Joints C1 ass.—Syt iarthrosis. The extremity of the costal cartilage is received into a cup-shaped depression at the end of the rib, which is somewhat larger than the cartilage. The two are joined together by the continuity of the investing membranes, the periosteum of the rib being continuous with the perichondrium of the cartilage, much in the same way as the epiphyses of the bones are joined to their shafts. (c) The Chondro-sternal Articulations Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. These articulations are between the lateral borders of the sternum and the ends of the costal cartilages. The union of the first rib with the sternum is synarthrodial, and therefore forms an exception to the others. From the second to the seventh inclusive, the articulations have the following ligaments, which together form a complete capsule:— Anterior chondro-sternal. Superior chondro-sternal. Posterior chondro-sternal. Inferior chondro-sternal.