THE MUSCLES 314 sides consisting of the deep fascia and the intermuscular septa which intervene between it and the adjacent muscles. The fleshy fibres converge downwards and somewhat outwards upon the back of the tendon which begins at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm, and is free a little below the middle of the forearm. At the wrist the tendon passes through a special compartment external to the tube formed by the anterior annular ligament. This compartment is bounded behind by the scaphoid bone and the groove upon the trapezium; externally, by the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone and the ridge upon the trapezium; and in front and internally by a thickening of the deep fascia of the forearm. It is lined by a special synovial membrane. Nerve-supply.—From the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus (through the sixth cervical nerve) by filaments from the median nerve which pass to its posterior surface in its upper third. Action.—(1) To flex the wrist. By its insertion into the metacarpus it bends not only the radio-carpal joint (which is the wrist-joint proper), but also the inter- carpal and the carpo-metacarpal joints, which really take part in all the movements of what may be called the wrist as distinguished from the wrist-joint. (2) When the hand is fully supinated, it helps in pronation. (3) It is also a feeble flexor of the elbow. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia and the superficial veins; deeply, the flexor sublimis digitorum, the flexor longus pollicis, the median nerve, the wrist and some of the carpal joints; on the outer side of it lie the pronator radii teres and the radial vessels; on the inner side it is in contact above with the palmaris longus. Variations.—The flexor carpi radialis may have a second origin from the tendon of the biceps or the radius, and its insertion may be extended to the base of the fourth metacarpal bone or to some of the bones of the carpus. It is sometimes absent. 3. PALMARIS LONGUS The palmaris longus—named from its length and its insertion upon the palm of the hand—is flat and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The common tendon from the front of the internal condyle; (2) the deep fascia of the forearm; and (3) the septa which lie between the muscle and the flexor carpi radialis, the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the flexor sublimis digitorum. Insertion.—(1) The upper end of the strong central portion of the palmar fascia; (2) the lower part of the front of the anterior annular ligament; and (3) the deep fascia covering the thenar eminence. Structure.—Like the preceding muscle it consists of fleshy fibres which rise in a long four-sided pyramid from the aponeurotic case formed by the deep fascia and the intermuscular septa. Its tendon appears first upon the anterior surface of the muscle at the junction of the middle and upper thirds of the forearm, and is free about the middle of the forearm. It passes almost directly downwards to the middle of the wrist, where it descends in front of the upper part of the anterior annular ligament, and then becomes attached to its lower edge as well as the adjacent fasciae. Nerve-supply.—From the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus (through the eighth cervical nerve) by filaments from the median nerve which enter the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—(1) To flex the wrist; (2) to a slight extent to flex the elbow also; (3) it makes tense the central portion of the palmar fascia, so that when an object is grasped firmly by the fingers no injurious pressure is exerted upon the important vessels and nerves which lie beneath that structure; (4) its attachments to the fascia of the thenar eminence gives a firm origin to some of the short muscles of the thumb. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia and superficial veins; deeply, the flexor sublimis digitorum and median nerve, and the upper part of the anterior annular ligament.