OF PELVIS WITH THE SPINE 199 accessory ligaments on either side, viz. the sacro-lumbar and the ilio-lumbar, con- nect the pelvis with the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. The sacro-lumbar ligament (fig. 206) is strong, and triangular in shape. Its apex is above and internal, being attached to the whole of the lower border and front surface of the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra, as well as to the pedicle and body. It is intimately blended with the ilio-lumbar ligament. Below, it has a wide fan-shaped attachment, extending from the edge of the ilio-lumbar liga- ment forwards to tbe brim of the true pelvis; blending with the periosteum on the base of the sacrum and in the iliac fossa, and with the superior sacro-iliac liga- ment. By its sharp internal border it limits externally the foramen for the last lumbar nerve. It is pierced by two large foramina, which transmit arteries to the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. This ligament is in series with the intertransverse ligaments of the spinal column. Fig. 206.—Anterior View of the Ligaments between the Spine and Pelvis. The ilio-lumbar ligament (fig. 206) is a strong, dense, triangular ligament, which springs from the front surface of the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra as far as the body, by a strong fasciculus from the posterior surface of the process near the tip, and also from the front surface and lower edge of the trans- verse process and pedicle of the fourth lumbar vertebra, as far inwards as the body. Between these two lumbar vertebrse it is inseparable from the intertransverse ligament. At its origin from the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra, it is closely interwoven with the sacro-lumbar ligament, and some of its fibres spread down- wards on to the body of the fifth vertebra, while others ascend to the disc above. At the pelvis it is attached to the inner lip of the crest of the ilium for about two inches (5 cm.). The highest fibres at the spine form the upper edge of the ligament at the pelvis, those which come from the posterior portion of the trans- verse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra forming the lower, while the fibres from the front of the same process pass nearly horizontally outwards.