THE KNEE-JOINT 255 femur, to the inner border and internal surface of the shaft of the tibia, an inch and a half (3-7 cm.) below the tuberosity. It is three inches and a half (8-7 cm.) long, well defined anteriorly, where it blends with the expansion of the conjoined extensor tendons; but not so well defined posteriorly, where it merges into the posterior ligament. Some of the lower fibres blend with the descending portion of the semi- membranosus tendon. Its deep surface is firmly adherent to the edge of the internal semilunar cartilage and coronary ligament, while part of the semimembranosus tendon and inferior internal articular vessels and nerve pass between it and the bone. Super- ficially, a bursa separates it from the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus muscles and from the aponeurosis of the sartorius muscle. The external lateral ligament ( fig. 245) consists of two portions: the anterior, which is the longer and better marked, is a strong, rounded cord, about two inches (5 cm.) long, attached above to the tubercle on the outer side of the external con- Fig. 245.—Posterior View of the Knee-joint. dyle of the femur, just below and in front of the origin of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, whilst the tendon of the popliteus arises from the groove below and in front of it. Below, it is fixed to the middle of the outer surface of the head of the fibula, half an inch (l-25 cm.) or more anterior to the styloid process. Super- ficially is the tendon of the biceps, which splits to embrace its lower extremity; while beneath it pass the popliteus tendon in its sheath, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve. Some fibres of the peroneus longus occasionally arise from the lower end of the ligament. The posterior portion is a third of an inch (8 mm.) behind the anterior. It is broader and less defined; fixed below to the styloid process, it inclines upwards and somewhat backwards, and ties down the popliteus against the outer tuberosity, blending beneath the outer head of the gas- trocnemius with the posterior ligament of the knee, of which it is really a portion. The posterior ligament or ligamentum Winslowii (fig. 245) is a broad dense structure of interlacing fibres, with large orifices for vessels and nerves. It is