470 THE ARTERIES The Descending Portion of the Arch of the Aorta The descending portion of the arch of the aorta, morphologically a part of the primitive dorsal aorta, descends by the left side of the body of the fourth and fifth thoracic vertebra?, and ends at the lower border of the latter in the thoracic aorta. Just below the spot where the ductus arteriosus (the fifth left arch) joins the aorta, a constriction (the aortic isthmus) is at times met with, and below this again a dilatation of a fusiform shape (the aortic spindle). Relations.—In front, it is in contact with the reflexion of the left pleura and tore root of the left lung (fig. 325). Fig. 324.—The Heart and Geeat Vessels, with the Root of the Lungs, seen from behind. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) THORACIC DUCT Left subclavian artery LEFT PNEUMO- GASTEIC NEE VE LEFT EECUREENT LARYNGEAL NERVE Intercostal artery Pulmonary artery BRONCHIAL GLANDS Intercostal artery LEFT BRONCHUS Left pulmonary vein Descending aorta LEFT PLEURA Oblique vein Left coronary artery — Coronary sinus Left marginal branch of left coronary artery Ventricular branches of coronary artery Left ventricle OESOPHAGUS TRACHEA Innominate artery RIGHT PNE UMO OA S TRIC NERVE Vena cava superior Intercostal artery RIGHT BRONCHUS Intercostal artery Bronchial artery POSTERIOR PUL- MONARY PLEXUS Right pulmonary artery Right pulmonary vein Vena azygos major RIGHT PLEURA Left auricle Posterior cardiac vein Posterior interventricular branch of right coronary artery Behind, it is in relation with the left side of the bodies of the fourth and fifth thoracic vertebrae and the pleura. To the right side are the oesophagus and thoracic duct, and the fourth and fifth thoracic vertebra?. To the left side are the left pleura and lung. Variations in the Arch of the Aorta The variations that have been met with in the aortic arch are very numerous. Only the chief can be here mentioned. They maybe divided into:—1. Variations in the arch itself; and 2. Variations in the number and arrangement of the three chief branches. The variations in the coronary arteries are described under Coronary Arteries, page 473.