246 THE ARTICULATIONS THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB The articulations of the lower limb are the following:— 1. The hip-joint. 2. The knee-joint. 3. The tibio-fibular union. 4. The ankle-joint. 5. The tarsal joints. 6. The tarso-metatarsal joints. 7. The intermetatarsal joints. 8. The metatarsophalangeal joints. 9. The interphalangeal joints. 1. THE HIP-JOINT Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Enarthrodia. The hip is the most typical example of a ball-and-socket joint in the body, the round head of the femur being received into the cup-shaped cavity of the aceta- bulum. Both articular surfaces are coated with cartilage, that covering the head of the femur being thicker above where it has to bear the weight of the body, and thinning out to a mere edge below; the pit for the ligamentum teres is the only part uncoated, but the cartilage is somewhat heaped up around its margin. Covering the acetabulum, the cartilage is horseshoe-shaped, and thicker above than below, being deficient over the depression at the bottom of the acetabulum, where a mass of fatty tissue—the so-called synovial or Haversian gland—is lodged. The ligaments of the joint are:— Capsular. Ligamentum teres. Transverse. Cotyloid cartilage. The capsular ligament is one of the strongest ligaments in the body. It is large and somewhat loose, so that in every position of the body some portion of it is relaxed. At the pelvis it is attached, superiorly, to the base of the anterior inferior iliac spine; curving backwards, it becomes blended with the deep surface of the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris; posteriorly, it is attached a few lines from the acetabular rim; and below, to the upper edge of the groove between the acetabulum and tuberosity of the ischium. Thus it reaches the transverse liga- ment, being firmly blended with its outer surface, and frequently sends fibres beyond the notch to blend with the obturator membrane. Anteriorly it is attached to the pubes near the notch, to the pectineal eminence, and thence backwards to the base of the iliac spine. A thin strong stratum is given off from its superficial aspect behind; this extends beneath the gluteus minimus, and small rotators, to be attached above to the dorsum of the ilium higher than the reflected tendon of the rectus, and posteriorly to the ilium and ischium nearly as far as the sciatic notch. As this expansion passes over the long tendon of the rectus, the tendon may be described as being in part contained within the substance of the capsule. At the femur, the capsular ligament is fixed to the anterior portion of the upper border of the great trochanter, and to the superior cervical tubercle. Thence it runs down the spiral line as far as the inner border of the femur, where it is on a level with the lower part of the lesser trochanter. It then runs upwards and back- wards along an oblique line about two-thirds of an inch (l-6 cm.) in front of the lesser trochanter, and continues its ascent along the back of the neck nearly parallel to the posterior intertrochanteric line, and from one-half to two-thirds of an inch (12 to 16 mm.) above it; finally, it passes along the inner side of the digital fossa to reach the anterior superior angle of the great trochanter.