VASCULAR SYSTEM 1213 The plica semilunaris.—At the inner canthus of the palpehral fissure there is a small fold of conjunctival membrane, the plica semilunaris. In many negroes it contains a small plate of cartilage, and it represents the third eyelid, or nictating membrane, of birds, many reptiles, and some amphibians. The function of the third eyelid is to cover and cleanse the front of the eyeball, but this function is performed in man by the upper eyelid, and consequently the nictating membrane remains as a rudimentary fold. VASCULAR SYSTE3I The foramen ovale.—This aperture is found in the interauricular septum, at the upper part of the fossa ovalis. It is a remnant of a much larger aperture, which existed before birth for the passage of blood from the inferior vena cava directly into the left auricle. At birth, when the lungs become functional, the inferior vena cava blood is diverted into the right ventricle, and in the majority of cases the foramen ovale soon closes, but in one case in five the upper part remains open in adult life. The sulcus terminalis and crista terminalis.—Upon the anterior surface of the right auricle there is a shallow sulcus, the sulcus terminalis, which extends from the front of the lower end of the superior vena cava to the right of the termi- nation of the inferior vena cava, and upon the inner surface of the auricular wall, in a similar position, there is a ridge, the crista terminalis, in which the upper ends of the musculi pectinati terminate. Both these structures indicate the line of union of the posterior portion of the primitive heart, the saccus reuniens or sinus venosus, with the second portion or auricle. The ligamentum ductus arteriosus.—This term is applied to a fibrous cord which connects the root of the left pulmonary artery to the under surface of the arch of the aorta, intervening between the superficial cardiac plexus on the inner side and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve on the outer side. It is the remnant of the dorsal part of the left fifth aortic arch, one of a series of vessels arranged in pairs between the ventral and dorsal parts of the aorta of the foetus. When the foetal blood-channels are transformed into the permanent vessels of the adult, the ventral parts of the fifth arches become the roots of the pulmonary arteries, the dorsal part on the left side soon disappears, but the dorsal part on the right side persists till birth, and through it blood passes from the right ventricle into the aorta. After birth, when the blood of the right ventricle is diverted into the lungs, the dorsal part of the left fifth arch loses its lumen and is converted into a fibrous cord. The obliterated hypogastric arteries.—The fibrous cords which are known as the obliterated hypogastric arteries are easily seen when the abdomen is opened and the intestines are lifted out of the pelvis. Each cord extends from the anterior part of the upper extremity of the internal iliac artery, under cover of the perito- neum, and beneath the ureter and the vas deferens, or the round ligament of the uterus, according to the sex, to the posterior surface of the anterior wall of the abdomen, where it ascends with an inward inclination across Hesselbach's triangle and behind the lower part of the rectus abdominis muscle, to join the urachus a short distance above the apex of the bladder; both the cords then ascend with the urachus to the umbilicus, where they terminate in the cicatrix. They are the remnants of the ventral portions of two large arteries, the umbilical arteries, which conveyed blood to the placenta and which formed during the greater part of inter- uterine life the main continuations of the aorta. The dorsal portions of the umbilical arteries become the common and internal iliac arteries, and after birth, when the placental circulation ceases, the ventral parts are converted into fibrous cords. The round ligament of the liver.—This ligament is a round, fibrous cord, which extends from the umbilical cicatrix along the lower or free border of the