THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS 1022 (fig 620) appearing as the posterior and inferior boundary of a portion of the sub- stance of the organ, the so-called ' middle lobe.' An irregular artery, usually derived from the internal iliac trunk, is sometimes found running by the side of the prostate to reach the dorsum of the penis, and may be the source of dangerous haemorrhage in lateral lithotomy. It replaces one or more of the terminal branches of the internal pudic. Structure and function.—The prostate is invested by a fibro-muscular capsule, derived from the recto-vesical segment of the pelvic fascia, unstriped muscle exist- ing in largest proportion over its rectal aspect, between the opposed borders of the levatores ani. The organ itself is composed of muscular and glandular tissue. The muscular element, comprising both striped and unstriped fibres, represents about one-half of the entire mass. The unstriped fibres embrace the vesical sphincter above, forming with this a ring of great firmness and strength above the urethral orifices of the ejaculatory ducts, and discharging in all probability the function of intercepting the backward flow of the semen and prostatic fluid into the bladder during sexual congress; below this point, the muscle is intermingled with gland tissue and striated fibres. The striped fibres lie chiefly in the anterior wall of the Fig. 620.—Semi diagrammatic Section of the Male Pelvis. ' MIDDLE LOBE' OF PROSTATE ABOVE THE PROSTATIC FISSURE SINUS POCULARIS IN PROSTATIC FISSURE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF BLADDER Fascia trans- versalis VASA DEFERENTIA AND VESICUL/E SEMINALES ANTERIOR WALL OF RECTUM CAVITY OF RECTUM WITH FOLD OF KOHLRAUSCH Recto-vesical fascia Fat in space of Retzius Vesico-pubic muscle ANTERIOR WALL OF PROSTATE WITH CAPSULE Dorsal vein of penis SEPTUM PECTINIFORME CORPUS SPONGIOSUM URETHR/E POSTERIOR WALL OF PROSTATE WITH CAPSULE Rectal por- tion of recto- vesical fascia Sphincter ani LOWER END OF RECTUM Sphincter ani Fascia of Colles Deep transversus perinaei between superficial and deep triangular ligaments Junction of deep and superficial triangular ligaments with fascia of Colles COWPER'S GLAND prostate, but completely encircle the apex of the organ, and are there probably connected with the deep transversus perinsei. The muscular fibres of both kinds below the ejaculatory ducts undoubtedly initiate the forward propulsion of the mingled prostatic and seminal secretions; the ejaculation being further aided by the contraction of the deep transversus perinaei, and bulbo-cavernosi. The glands are of the branched tubular type, and lie chiefly in the posterior and lateral parts of the organ, their ducts opening into the urethral recesses (prostatic sinuses) by the sides of the verumontanum. The}' secrete a mucus, the principal use of which is to dilute and give bulk to the semen, and they are sometimes the seat of pathological concretions. In addition to the true glands are seen a number of simple follicles in the anterior wall of the prostatic urethra, probably of the same nature as the rest of the urethral follicles. The prostatic urethra will be described hereafter (page 1037). The organ is essentially generative, but serves also to reinforce the vesical sphincter, although its absence in the female and its imperfect development in chil- dren and eunuchs appear to entail no defect in the control of the bladder. The muscular fibres are, however, to some extent represented in the female (page 1042).