THORACIC AORTA 545 convexity of the deep arch, and, coursing downwards in the centre of the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces on the interosseous muscles, terminate near the clefts of the fingers by anastomosing with the digital arteries from the superficial arch. These vessels supply the interosseous muscles and the bones, and the second, third, and fourth lumbricales. (4) The recurrent branches come off from the concavity of the arch, and consist of two or three small vessels which run upwards towards the wrist, and anastomose above with the anterior branch of the anterior interosseous, and later- ally with the anterior radial and ulnar carpal arteries, forming the so-called anterior carpal rete (fig. 359). (5) The posterior, communicating, or perforating, also usually three in number, pass from the arch directly through the second, third, and fourth inter- osseous spaces between the two heads of the corresponding dorsal interosseous muscle, and join the proximal ends of the metacarpal artery (first dorsal inter- osseous), and the second and third dorsal interosseous arteries respectively. THE DESCENDING, OE THOEACIC AOETA The thoracic aorta (fig. 360) extends from the termination of the aortic arch at the lower border of the body of the fifth thoracic vertebra to the lower border of the body of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, where it passes through the aortic open- ing in the diaphragm, and is thence continued under the name of the abdominal aorta. It is at first situated a little to the left of the vertebral column, but as it descends approaches the front of the column, at the same time following the back- ward curve of the spine, and at its passage through the diaphragm is almost in the middle line. It lies in the posterior mediastinum, having the oesophagus at first a little to the right of it, then in front of it, and just above the tenth thoracic vertebra, where this tube pierces the diaphragm, a little to its left side. Relations.—In front it is crossed from above downwards by the root of the left lung, by the oesophagus, which separates it from the pericardium and heart, and by the diaphragm. Behind, it lies upon the lower seven thoracic vertebrae, and is crossed obliquely opposite the seventh or eighth thoracic vertebra by the vena azygos minor, and opposite the fifth or sixth vertebra by the third azygos vein, or by one or more of the left intercostal veins. On the right side it has, above, the oesophagus, and lower down the right pleura and lung. The vena azygos major and thoracic duct also lie to the right, but on a somewhat posterior plane. On the left side it has the left lung and pleura above, and the oesophagus below. The vena azygos minor and the third azygos vein are also to the left, but on a pos- terior plane. Branches of the Thoracic Aorta The branches of the thoracic aorta may be divided into the visceral and the parietal. The visceral are:—(1) The pericardiac; (2 ) the bronchial; and (3) the oesophageal. The parietal are:—(1) The intercostal; (2) the subcostal; (3) the diaphragmatic; and (4) the arteria aberrans. A. Visceral Branches (1) The pericardiac—two or three small branches, irregular in their origin, course, and distribution—pass to the posterior surface of the pericardium to supply that structure, and anastomose with the other pericardiac branches. They give small twigs to the posterior mediastinal glands. (2) The bronchial arteries (fig. 324) supply the bronchi and the lung sub- stance. They vary considerably in their origin, course, and distribution; they are usually three in number—one on the right side, and two on the left. (a) The right bronchial generally arises either from the first right aortic inter- 35