200 THE ARTICULATIONS Near the spine the surfaces look directly backwards and forwards, but at the ilium, the ligament gets somewhat twisted, so that the posterior surface looks a little upwards, and the anterior looks a little downwards. The anterior surface forms part of the posterior boundary of the false pelvis, and overlies the upper part of the posterior sacro-iliac ligament; the posterior surface forms part of the floor of the spinal groove, and gives origin to the multifidus spinas muscle. Of the borders, the upper is oblique, has the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia attached to it, and gives origin to the quadratus lumborum; the lower is horizontal, and is adjacent to the upper edge of the sacro-lumbar ligament; while the inner is crescentic, and forms the outer boundary of a foramen through which the fourth lumbar nerve passes. The arterial supply is very free, and comes from the last lumbar, iliodumbar, and lateral sacral. The nerve-supply is from the sympathetic, as well as from twigs from the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves. Movements.—The angle formed by the sacrum with the spinal column is called the sacro-vertebral angle. The pelvic inclination does not depend entirely upon this angle, but in great part upon the obliquity of the innominate bones to the sacrum, so that in males in whom the average pelvic obliquity is a little greater, the average sacro-vertebral angle is considerably less than in females. The sacro-vertebral angle in the male shows that there is a greater and more sudden change in direction at the sacro-vertebral union than in the female. A part of this change in direction is due to the greater thickness in the anterior part of the intervertebral substance between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. Owing to the greater thickness of the intervertebral disc here than elsewhere, the move- ments permitted at this joint are very free, being freer than those between any two lumbar vertebras. As the diameter of the two contiguous bones is less antero- posteriorly than laterally, the forward and backward motions are much freer than the lateral ones. The backward and forward motions take place every time the sitting is exchanged for the standing position, and the standing for the sitting pos- ture; in rising, the back is extended on the sacrum at the sacro-lumbar union; in sitting down it is flexed. The articular processes provide for the gliding movement incidental to the extension, flexion, and lateral movements;" they also allow some horizontal move- ment, necessary for the rotation of the spine on the pelvis, or pelvis on the spine. The inferior articular processes of the fifth differ considerably from the inferior processes in the rest of the lumbar vertebras, and in direction they resemble some- what those of the cervical vertebras; while the superior articular processes of the sacrum differ in a similar degree from the superior processes of the lumbar vertebras. This difference allows for the freer rotation which occurs at this joint. The sacro-vertebral angle averages 117° in the male, and 130° in the female; while the pelvic inclination averages 155° in the male, and 150° in the female. 3. THE AETICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS This group may again be. subdivided into— (a) The sacro-iliac. (b) The sacro-coccygeal. (c) The intercoccygeal. (d) The symphysis pubis. (a) The Sacro-iliac Synchondrosis and Sacro-sciatic Ligaments Class.—Amphiarthrosis. Like the symphysis pubis, the sacro-iliac synchondrosis is an amphiarthrodia joint, but it differs from it in having an interosseous ligament as well as an