HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS—PELVIC PLEXUSES 837 massed along the sides of the abdominal aorta, and are connected by communi- cating branches which pass across the front of the great vessel. It is formed mainly by the downward continuation of the solar plexus, but receives strong rein- forcements from the upper three lumbar ganglia. It gives off the spermatic and inferior mesenteric plexuses, and terminates below in strong branches to the hypo- gastric plexus. The inferior mesenteric plexus is much smaller than the superior mesenteric plexus, but, like the latter, is remarkable for its whitish colour. It is derived from the aortic plexus, and is conveyed by the branches of the inferior mesenteric artery to the descending colon, the sigmoid flexure, and to the upper part of the rectum. In the latter situation it communicates with the pelvic plexuses. It contains the inferior mesenteric ganglion. The spermatic plexus is derived from the aortic and renal plexuses. It ac- companies the spermatic artery as far as the internal abdominal ring, where it is joined by a fine plexus derived from the pelvic plexus and accompanying the vas deferens. Thus reinforced, it is conducted by the spermatic cord to the testicle. In the female it accompanies the ovarian vessels to the ovary and uterus. The more important fibres which pass to the solar plexus have already been described in connection with the lumbar and dorsal portions of the sympathetic cord. HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS From the lower ganglia of the lumbar sympathetic cord, two or three strong branches proceed which cross obliquely in front of the common iliac arteries. These nerves are joined by stout offsets from the aortic plexus, and interlace in front of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra with the corresponding nerves of the opposite side to form a broad flattened band, which is termed the hypogastric plexus. This plexus is remarkable in that it contains little or no ganglionic matter. It soon divides into two lateral portions, the pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexuses. Pelvic Plexuses Each of the two lateral continuations of the hypogastric plexus contains gan- glion cells; it passes downwards on the side of the rectum, where it is joined by slender branches from the sacral part of the gangliated cord, and by branches from the third and fourth (sometimes the second) sacral nerves. In this manner the pelvic plexuses are formed. Each pelvic plexus gives off branches to the pelvic viscera; these branches, in the greater part of their course, follow the arteries of the pelvis. We distinguish middle hemorrhoidal, vesical, prostatic, and (in the female) vaginal and uterine plexuses. The middle haemorrhoidal plexuses form a closely-meshed expansion on the sides of the rectum; they communicate above with branches from the inferior mesenteric plexus, and below with the inferior hemorrhoidal branches of the pudic nerve. The vesical plexus is chiefly formed by fibres derived from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The nerves pass forwards on each side of the bladder, and divide into two groups—a superior group, which supplies the upper two-thirds of the bladder; and an inferior group, which is distributed to the lower third of that viscus. In the male, branches are given off to the vesieulae seminales and vasa deferentia. The nerves to the vas deferens form a slender plexus which accom- panies that structure as far as the internal abdominal ring, where it unites with the spermatic plexus. The prostatic plexus is placed a little lower down than the vesical plexus, of which it is in some measure a continuation. The nerves which pass to it are of relatively large size, and are massed on the sides of the organ, where several ganglionic masses, from one-eighth to a quarter of an inch in length (ganglia prostatica of Muller), are developed. From the prostatic plexus, offsets are furnished to the vesicular seminales, and also branches to the erectile structures of the penis; the latter branches are called cavernous nerves.