894 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE olfactory region is lined with a columnar unciliated epithelium. The mucous membrane is here of a yellowish colour, thicker than elsewhere, and contains the olfactory cells of Max Schultze. The lower or respiratory is a much wider portion, in which the epithelium is columnar and ciliated, and includes the inferior turbinal bone with the lower part of the fossa, Immediately behind the vestibule there are two shallow depressions separated by a ridge, the agger nasi, or naso-turbinal; the area below the ridge is the atrium of the middle meatus. It is bounded posteriorly by the anterior vertical border of the middle turbinal, beneath which it is continued into the middle1 meatus. The upper depression is the sulcus olfactorius; it leads upwards and backwards to the olfactory region of the nasal fossa. The roof presents but one opening posteriorly, which leads into the sphenoidal sinus. The orifices in the cribriform plate are entirely closed over. In the floor the openings leading into the anterior palatine canal are closed. The small cul-de-sac already described indicates their position. The superior meatus is the shortest of the three; it lies in the posterior third of the outer wall under cover of the superior turbinal bone, and it has but a single opening, which leads into the posterior ethmoidal cells. The spheno-palatine foramen is entirely covered by membrane. The middle meatus lies in the posterior two-thirds of the nasal chamber under cover of the middle turbinal bone. On its outer wall is a rounded eminence, the bulla ethmoidalis, which is perforated by the aperture of the middle ethmoidal cells; and in front and below this is a curved groove, the sulcus semilunaris, which is continued above, by the infundibulum, into the frontal sinus; it receives the openings of the anterior ethmoidal cells and the antrum. The inferior meatus is the longest of the three; it lies under cover of the inferior turbinal bone, and it receives the nasal duct anteriorly. The mucous membrane is arranged around the opening in a circular valve, the valve of Hasner, which is sometimes double (page 868).