272 THE ARTICULATIONS border of the cuboid on its dorsal aspect, passing over the posterior external angle of the external cuneiform bone. It is wider externally. The plantar cubo-scaphoid ligament is a well-marked strong band, which runs forwards and outwards, from the plantar surface of the scaphoid to the depression on the inner surface of the cuboid, and slightly into the plantar surface just below it. The interosseous cubo-scaphoid ligament is a strong band which passes between the apposed surfaces of these bones from the dorsal to the plantar ligaments. Some of its posterior fibres reach the plantar surface of the foot behind the cubo- scaphoid ligament, and radiate outwards and backwards over the inner border of the cuboid to blend with the anterior extremity of the short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. (ii) The Scapho-cuneiform Articulation Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The ligaments uniting the scaphoid with the three cuneiform bones are:— Dorsal. Plantar. Internal. The dorsal scapho-cuneiform ligament is very strong, and stretches as a con- tinuous structure on the dorsal surface of the scaphoid, between the tubercle of the scaphoid on the inner side, and the dorsal cubo-scaphoid ligament externally, passing forwards and a little outwards to the dorsal surfaces of the three cuneiform bones. The internal scapho-cuneiform ligament is a very strong thick band which connects the tubercle of the scaphoid with the inner surface of the internal cunei- form bone. It is continuous with the dorsal and plantar ligaments. Its lower border touches the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The plantar scapho-cuneiform ligament forms, like the dorsal, a continuous structure extending between the plantar surfaces of the bones. Its fibres pass forwards and outwards. It is in relation below with the tendon of the tibialis posticus. It must be noticed that the expanded tendon of insertion of the tibialis posticus, and the ligaments uniting the scaphoid with the cuboid and cuneiform bones pass forwards and outwards, while the peroneus longus tendon and the ligaments uniting the first and second rows of bones, except the inner half of the dorsal astragalo-scaphoid ligaments, pass forwards and inwards. This arrangement is admirably adapted to preserve the arches of the foot, and especially the transverse arch. Had these tendons and ligaments ran directly forward, all the strain on the transverse arch would have fallen on the interosseous ligaments, but as it is, the arch is braced up by the above- mentioned structures. (iii) The Intercuneiform and (iv) The Cubo-cuneiform Articulations Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The uniting ligaments of these bones are divided into three sets: Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. The dorsal ligaments are three in number, two connecting the three cunei- form bones, and a third uniting the external cuneiform with the cuboid. They pass between the contiguous margins of the bones, and are blended behind with the dorsal ligaments of the cubo-scaphoid and scapho-cuneiform joints. The plantar ligaments are two in number: a very strong one passes outwards and forwards from the outer side of the base of the internal cuneiform to the apex of the middle cuneiform, winding somewhat to its outer side. The second connects the apex of the external cuneiform with the anterior half of the inner surface of the cuboid along its plantar border, joining with the plantar scapho-cuboid ligament behind. The interosseous ligaments are three in number. They are strong and deep .#