508 THE ARTERIES running in this is the suprascapular artery. The subclavian is crossed by this artery unless the arm is drawn well downwards. Hence one of the reasons for depressing the shoulder, and thus avoiding the suprascapular artery, in the opera- tion of ligaturing the subclavian. Close to the outer margin of the sterno-mastoid, the external jugular vein pierces the fascia, and crosses the subclavian artery to open into the subclavian vein. As this vein lies between the two layers of fascia, it receives on its external side the suprascapular, transverse cervical, and other veins of the neck, which together form a plexus of large veins in front of the artery. The nerve to the subclavius, and when present the accessory branch from this nerve to the phrenic, also here cross in front of the artery. In very muscular subjects the sterno-mastoid may extend further outwards along the clavicle than usual, and in such a case will form one of the coverings of the artery. Behind, the artery is in contact with the scalenus medius, and with the cord of the brachial plexus formed by the union of the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerve. Below, the artery rests in the posterior of the two grooves on the upper surface of the first rib. Above is the brachial plexus of nerves and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. The cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves is also above the artery, but on a somewhat anterior plane. It is close to the vessel, and has been mistaken for the artery in the application of a ligature. As a rule there is no branch given off from the third portion of the subclavian. At times, however, the suprascapular (fig. 329) or the posterior scapular artery may arise from the third portion of the subclavian, instead of from the thyroid axis and from the transverse cervical respectively as here described. Chief Variations in the Subclavian Artery (A) The right subclavian artery may arise directly from the arch of the aorta, and then come off as the first, second, third or fourth branch of that vessel. When it arises as the first branch, it takes the place usually occupied by the innominate ; when it arises as the last branch, it courses behind the trachea and oesophagus to gain the groove on the first rib. As the second or third branch of the aortic arch it is very rare ; in both instances it then runs behind the right common carotid. The explanation of the right subclavian arising as the last branch of the arch of the aorta, is that the right aortic arch has remained pervious, whilst the normal root of the subclavian artery has become obliterated. An arteria aberrans, given off from the right subclavian or from the superior intercostal, can generally be traced to the third thoracic vertebra behind the oesophagus, and in a number of such cases can be followed across the spine to anastomose with a branch of the thoracic aorta given off below the ductus arteriosus. It is the enlargement of this anastomosis—which is itself the remains of what was the primitive right dorsal aorta in the embryo—that gives rise to the abnormality in question. The inferior laryngeal nerve in such cases, in consequence of the right fourth arch which forms the first portion of the subclavian being obliterated, follows a direct course to the larynx instead of winding recurrently round the sub- clavian artery. (B) The right subclavian may arise higher or lower in the neck than usual, according as the innominate divides above or below the normal situation. (C) It may perforate the scalenus anticus or pass in front of that muscle. (D) It may ascend as high as an inch and a half above the clavicle, or remain below the level of that bone. (E) The third part of the artery may be covered by the trapezius or sterno-mastoid, or by a clavicular origin of the omo-hyoid. (F) The subclavian vein may accompany the artery behind the scalenus anticus. Branches of the Subclavian Artery From the first portion of the subclavian artery are given off: from the upper and back part and about three-quarters of an inch (2 cm.) from its origin, the ver- tebral ; a little further outwards, from the front part, the thyroid axis ; and from the lower part—usually opposite the thyroid axis, or else between the tigroid axis and the vertebral—the internal mammary. From the second portion arises, from the back of the vessel, the superior intercostal. The third portion as a rule, gives off no branch.