THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 754 superior dental nerves constitute the third set. (4) The terminal branches fall into three groups, which are termed labial, nasal, and palpebral branches. The orbital or temporo-malar nerve passes upwards and forwards through the spheno-maxillary fissure by which it enters the orbit, and terminates by divid- ing into two branches, temporal and malar. The temporal branch communicates with the lachrymal nerve, and then runs forwards through the periosteum on the outer wall of the orbit, and traverses the spheno-malar foramen. It enters the temporal fossa and pierces the deeper of the two lamellae of the temporal fascia. It runs outwards for about a quarter of an inch in the fat between the two lamella? of the fascia, and pierces the superficial lamella about an inch above the superior border of the zygoma; here it forms a well-marked communication with the tem- poral branch of the facial nerve, and then ramifies in the integument of the anterior temporal region. The malar branch (ramus subcutaneous malae) runs for- wards in the loose fatty tissue of the orbit, and passes through the malar foramen. It pierces the orbicularis palpebrarum and supplies a small area of skin over the prominence of the cheek. It communicates with the malar branch of the facial nerve. The spheno-palatine nerves are two stout twigs which pass downwards to Meckel's ganglion, of which they form the sensory roots; most of the nerve- fibres pass on the inner side of the ganglion without traversing the ganglionic substance, but it is more convenient to trace these nerves with the branches of the ganglion. Thr posterior superior dental nerves, usually two in number, pass down- wards and outwards through the pterygo-maxillary fissure. They furnish several twigs to the gums (nervuli gingivales ) and adjacent part of the mucous membrane of the cheek. They then enter foramina in the maxilla, follow the curve of the alveolar arch through minute canals in the bone above the roots of the molar teeth, and end by communicating in a plexiform manner with the middle dental nerve. They give off minute branches to the mucous membrane of the antrum, and furnish three twigs to each of the molar teeth. These twigs enter the foramina at the tip" of the fangs of the teeth and ramify in the pulp. The middle and anterior superior dental nerves are small branches whic1 pass through canals in the substance of the maxilla to supply the incisor, canine, and bicuspid teeth and the corresponding regions of the gums. In the upper, an more particularly in the lower, parts of these canals the nerves are surrounded o all sides by thick bone; but in the middle part, where they are traversing the anterior wall of the antrum, they are surrounded by a mere shell of bone, which is not infrequently deficient on the deep surface, so that the nerves may lie in grooves in the anterior wall of the antrum between the bone and mucous membrane. In this situation the nerves furnish twigs to the antrum. The middle dental nerve enters a foramen at the posterior part of the infraorbital canal. It supplies the bicuspid teeth, and communicates with the anterior and posterior dental nerves. It may be wanting. The anterior dental nerve enters a canal close to the infra- orbital foramen, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth. It gives off a nasal branch, which passes through a minute canal in the bone and enters the anterior part of the inferior meatus. Here it ramifies in the mucous membrane, and com- municates with the naso-palatine nerve from Meckel's ganglion. It communicates with the middle dental nerve. Two small gangliform enlargements are occasionally found on the plexiforni arch formed by the dental nerves. One of these, the ganglion of Valentin, is situated above the root of the second bicuspid at the junction of the middle and posterior dental nerves. The other, th ganglion of Bochdalek, is placed on the junction of the anterior and middle dental nerves. The labial branches, usually four in number, are the largest of the thre terminal divisions of the maxillary nerve. They pass downwards, spreading out a they descend, under cover of the levator labii superioris muscle, and ramify in th structures forming the upper lip, very large twdgs being supplied to the mucou membrane. The nasal branches, three or four in number, are intermediate in size. The pass inwards under cover of the levator labii superioris alaxme nasi, and supply the integument on the lateral aspect of the nose.