292 THE MUSCLES deeply, the splenius colli, the cervicalis ascendens, the serratus posticus superior, and the posterior scapular vessels. Variations.—The number of cervical vertebrae from which the muscle arises varies, and it may even arise from the mastoid process or occipital bone. It may send slips to the serratus magnus, the serratus posticus superior, and other adjacent muscles ; occasionally also to the clavicle and first two ribs. 2 and 3. RHOMBOIDEI Tlic rhomboidei—named from their shape, which is rhomboidal, or like a parallelogram—are sometimes looked upon as a single muscle, but may be usually separated into the following:— The rhomboideus minor, the lesser and upper of the two, is a four-sided sheet, forming an elongated parallelogram. Origin.—The lower part of the ligamentum nucha?, the spines of the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebras, and the supraspinous ligament between them. Insertion.—The vertebral border of the scapula opposite its spine. Structure.—Its origin and insertion are by short tendinous fibres, between which its fleshy fibres run parallel to one another, downwards and outwards. Nerve-supply.—From the brachial plexus by a branch of the fifth cervical nerve, which enters its deep aspect near the upper border a short distance above its insertion. For action and relations, see the account of the following muscle. The rhomboideus major—the lower and larger of the two muscles—is a broad rhomboidal sheet. Origin.—The spines of the four or five upper thoracic vertebras, and the supra- spinous ligament between them. Insertion.—The vertebral border of the scapula opposite the infraspinous fossa. Structure.—At the origin, it consists of short tendinous fibres, succeeded by parallel fleshy bundles, which pass downwards and outwards to a narrow tendinous expansion which is feebly attached to the scapula over the upper three-fourths of its insertion, but with thick and strong fibres near the inferior angle of that bone. Nerve-supply.—The same as the preceding, and entering the upper part of the deep surface near its insertion. Action.—The rhomboidei draw the scapula inwards and backwards towards the middle line, and at the same time upwards. They also rotate the scapula so as to depress the point of the shoulder. In this way they, together with the levator anguli scapulas, will help in drawing down the arm, after it has been elevated through the rotation of the scapula by the trapezius and serratus magnus. Acting from the scapula, the rhomboidei will help the trapezius in drawing the middle line of the back towards that bone. Relations of the two rhomboidei.—Superficially, the trapezius and, at the lower part of the rhomboideus major, the deep fascia, and latissimus dorsi; deeply, the serratus posticus superior, splenius colli, the external intercostals, the posterior scapular vessels, the angles of the upper ribs, and the vertebral aponeurosis cover- ing the upper continuations of the erector spinas. Variations.—The rhomboideus minor is frequently absent, and occasionally there is no rhom- boideus major. The fibres of the latter muscle may be inserted almost entirely into the lower angle of the scapula. Occasionally its lower fibres join those of the latissimus dorsi, and they have also been found continuous with a part of the teres major. An accessory band may join the rhomboidei from the occipital bone (the occipito-scapularis). 4. LATISSIMUS DORSI The latissimus dorsi (figs. 262 and 269)—named from its being the broadest of the back muscles—is a fan-shaped sheet forming a right-angled triangle, the right angle being contained between its upper and vertebral borders. Origin.—(1) The five or six lower thoracic spines, and the supraspinous liga-