183 ATLAS WITH OCCIPUT (2) THE LIGAMENTS AND JOINTS BETWEEN THE SKULL AND SPINAL COLUMN, AND BETWEEN THE ATLAS AND AXIS (a) The Aeticulation of the Atlas with the Occiput This articulation consists of a pair of joints symmetrically situated on either side of the middle line. The parts entering into their formation are the cup-shaped superior articular processes of the atlas, and the condyles of the occipital bone. They are united by the following ligaments:— The anterior occipito-atlantal ligament (fig. 194) is less than an inch (about 2 cm.) wide, and is composed of densely woven fibres, most of which radiate slightly outwards as they ascend from the front surface and upper margin of the anterior arch of the atlas, to the anterior border of the foramen magnum; it is con- tinuous laterally with the capsular ligaments, the fibres of which overlap its edges, and take an opposite direction inwards and upwards. The central fibres ascend vertically from the anterior tubercle of the atlas to the pharyngeal tubercle on the occipital bone; they are thicker than the lateral fibres, and are continuous below with the superficial part of the anterior atlanto-axoidean ligament, and through it with the anterior common ligament of the vertebral column. It is in relation, in front, with the recti capitis antici minor es ; and behind, with the central odontoid or suspensory ligament. The posterior occipito-atlantal ligament (fig. 195) is broader, more mem- branous, and not so strong as the anterior. It extends from the posterior surface and upper border of the posterior arch of the atlas to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum from condyle to condyle; being incomplete on either side for the passage of the vertebral artery into, and suboccipital nerve out of, the canal. It is somewhat thickened in the middle line by fibres, which pass from the posterior tubercle of the atlas to the lower end of the occipital crest. It is not tightly stretched between the bones, nor does it limit their movements; it corresponds with the position of the ligamenta subflava, but has no elastic tissue in its composition. It is in relation in front with the dura mater, which is firmly attached to it; and behind with the recti capitis postici minores, and enters into the floor of the sub- occipital triangle. The capsular ligaments (figs. 194 and 195) are very distinct and strongly marked, except on the inner side, where they are thin and formed only of short membranous fibres. They are lax, and do not add much to the security of the joint. In front, the capsule descends upon the atlas, to be attached, some distance below the articular margin, to the front surface of the lateral mass, and to the base of the transverse process; these fibres take an oblique course upwards and inwards, over- lapping the anterior occipito-atlantal. At the sides and behind, the capsule is attached above to the margins of the occipital condyles; below, it skirts the inner edge of the foramen for the vertebral artery, and behind is attached to the promi- nent tubercle overhanging the groove for that vessel; these latter fibres are strength- ened by a band running obliquely upwards and inwards to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum. The anterior oblique or lateral occipito-atlantal ligament (fig. 194) is an accessory band which strengthens the capsule on the outer side. It is an oblique, thick band of fibres, sometimes quite separate and distinct from the rest, passing upwards and inwards from the upper surface of the transverse process beyond the costo-vertebral foramen to the jugular process of the occipital bone. The synovial membrane of these joints occasionally communicates with the synovial sac between the odontoid process and the transverse ligament. Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Doable Condylarthrosis. 1. Anterior occipito-atlantal. 2. Posterior occipito-atlantal. 3. Two capsular. 4. Two anterior oblique.