933 THE HEART surfaces the chordae tendineae form an arched interlacement, which has been well likened to the fan tracery of Gothic architecture. (Macalister.) The left auricle is placed behind the roots of the aorta and pulmonary artery, with the right auricle overlapping it, and lying to the right of these structures. Behind, it receives on each side the pulmonary veins, and it is separated by the pericardium from the oesophagus and the descending thoracic aorta. Its narrow and much curved appendix arches round the root of the pulmonary artery, and is the only part of the auricle to be seen from the front. The cavity of the auricle is smooth, with the exception of the appendix, in which the musculi pectinati are well marked. Openings.—Besides the narrow opening which leads from the atrium into the appendix, the left auricle presents posteriorly the orifices of the four pulmonary veins, two of which sometimes have a single mouth, whilst a third may be present, especially on the right side. The oval auriculo-ventricular opening is placed below and in front. Several small orifices, the foramina Thebesii, are also to be found in the cavity. A crescentic indentation on the septal wall, with its con- cavity upwards and placed above the level of the annulus ovalis, indicates the upper border of the valve, which has grown upwards to obliterate the foramen ovale, but which now is adherent and forms part of the wall dividing the two Fig. 552.—View of the Auriculae Cavities from below (the Transverse Section passing above their middle). auricles. As already observed, a small oblique orifice sometimes remains un- closed. The left ventricle forms the chief part of the heart behind, with its apex and left border. It is somewhat longer and narrower than the right. Its cavity is conical with the apex below and it is somewhat ovoid in transverse section. Its muscular wall, which is much thicker than that of the right ventricle, is thinnest at the apex and thickest at the junction of the upper and middle thirds. The columnae carneae are numerous, small, and closely reticulated, giving to the interior of the ventricle, especially near the apex, a cavernous appearance. The musculi papillares are usually represented by two large, sometimes com- pound, muscular pillars, which arise from the anterior and the posterior wall respectively; and from these the chordae tendineae pass to the edges and surfaces of the two segments of the bicuspid valve. The orifice of the aorta looks somewhat forwards, and is guarded by three semilunar valves, which are similar in structure, but present more strongly marked characters than are to be found in the corresponding valves of the pulmo- nary artery. One of these segments is placed anteriorly and two lie posteriorly. It is surrounded by a fibrous ring, similar to that which strengthens the pulmonary orifice, and the walls of that portion of the cavity which lies immediately below it, the aortic vestibule, are entirely fibrous.