515 TRANSVERSE CERVICAL joint and shoulder-joint; (7) the subscapular, given off as the artery is passing over the suprascapular ligament, descends to the subscapular fossa between the subscapularis and the bone, and anastomoses with the infrascapular branch of the dorsal scapular artery, and with the subscapular and jjosterior scapular arteries; (8) the supraspinous branches, which ramify in the supraspinous fossa, and supply the supra-spinatus muscle and the periosteum and the nutrient artery to the bone; (9) the infraspinous branches, which ramify in a similar way in the infra- spinous fossa, giving off like twigs to the infra-spinatus muscle, the periosteum, and the bone. THE TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY The transverse cervical or transversalis colli artery—somewhat larger than the suprascapular artery—runs like the latter vessel transversely outwards across the root of the neck, but on a slightly higher plane, and a little above the clavicle. Fig. 343.—Scheme of Anastomoses of the Eight Scapulae Arteries. (Walsham.) Subscapular branch of suprascapular artery Supraspinous branch of suprascapular artery Posterior scapular artery Supraspinous branch of posterior scapular artery Subscapular branch of posterior scapular artery Branch of intercostal artery Branch of intercostal artery Continuation of posterior scapular artery ■Suprascapular artery Acromial branch of acronrio- thoracic Acromial rele Subscapular branch of suprascapular artery Infraspinous branch of suprascapular artery Subscapular branch of axillary artery Dorsal scapular branch of subscapular artery Infrascapular branch of dorsal scapular artery Continuation of sub- scapular artery At its origin from the thyroid axis it lies under the sterno-mastoid; on leaving the cover of this muscle, it crosses the upper part of the subclavian triangle, lying here only beneath the platysma and cervical fascia; further outwards, it passes beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius and omo-hyoid muscle, and at the outer margin of the levator anguli scapulas divides into the posterior scapular and super- ficial cervical arteries. In this course it crosses the phrenic nerve, the scalenus anticus, the brachial plexus, and the scalenus medius. At times it passes between the cords of the brachial plexus. The terminal branches of the transverse cervical artery are:—(1) The posterior scapular; and (2) the superficial cervical. The posterior scapular occa- sionally arises from the third portion of the subclavian artery.