1175 THE THIGH ment, extending between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the pubes. The line representing it should be drawn slightly convex downwards, owing to the attachment of the deep fascia. It forms the base of Scarpa's triangle; its inner attachment blends with the triangular Gimbernat's ligament. The parts passing under Poupart's ligament and their arrangement have been given elsewhere. Scarpa's triangle (fig. 741).—Immediately below Poupart's ligament, a hollow is seen corresponding to this region, the outer and inner boundaries of which are Fig. 740.—Diagram of Arteries of Thigh. llio-lumbar artery Deep circumflex iliac, anastomosing with iliO'lumbar of internal iliac Common femoral Deep femoral (profunda). (Should be larger at origin.) Descending branch of external circumflex Popliteal Superior external articular, anastomosing with external circumflex, etc. Inferior external articular Posterior tibial recurrent (from anterior tibial) Anterior tibial recurrent Superior fibular Anterior tibial Common iliac artery Deep epigastric Internal iliac, dividing into anterior and posterior trunks ~ External iliac Obturator Sciatic Internal pudic Lower terminal branch of internal cir- cumflex Superficial femoral (muscular branches omitted) Perforating branches of deep femoral, forming anastomotic loops and supply- ing posterior muscles Anastomotica magna Popliteal, giving off superior muscular branches Superior internal articular Inferior internal articular (sural arteries arising below this omitted) Posterior tibial brought into view when the limb is raised, the adductor longus especially when the limb is abducted, and the sartorius where the thigh is flexed and adducted and carried towards its fellow. Lying superficially in the base of the triangle, the lym- phatic glands can be detected in a thin person (fig. 769). They lie in two groups —(a) One horizontal in a line with Poupart's ligament, and receiving lymph from the genitals, the lower part of the abdominal wall, and the inner aspect of the buttock; (6) a vertical set lying along the great vessels receiving lymph from the