THE ARTERIES 492 called—at times a branch of the deep temporal—passes forwards along the upper border of the zygoma in the fat between the superficial and deep layers of the tem- poral aponeurosis, and, after giving branches to the orbicularis oculi, sends one or more twigs into the orbit through the orbital foramina in the malar bone to anas- tomose with the lachrymal and palpebral branches of the ophthalmic. (8) The anterior terminal branch ramifies tortuously in an upward and forward direction over the front part of the skull. It lies, first between the skin and temporal fascia, and then between the skin and occipito-frontalis aponeurosis. It supplies the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis and the orbicularis oculi muscles, and anastomoses with the supraorbital, supratrochlear, and frontal branches of the ophthalmic, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. The secondary branches given off from this vessel to the scalp run from before backwards. (9) The posterior terminal branch ramifies on the side of the head between the skin and temporal fascia. Its branches anastomose, in front with the anterior terminal branch; behind, with the posterior auricular and occipital arteries; and a! >ove, across the vertex of the skull, with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. 8. THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY The internal maxillary artery (fig. 336) is the larger of the two terminal divisions of the external carotid. It arises opposite the neck of the jaw in the substance of the parotid gland, and, passing first between the neck of the jaw and the spheno-mandibular ligament—the so-called internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw—and then between the external and internal pterygoid muscles, sinks deeply into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and there breaks up into its terminal branches. It is divided into three portions: a maxillary, a pterygoid, and a spheno- maxillary. (1) In the first part of its course (the maxillary portion) the artery lies between the neck of the jaw and the spheno-mandibular ligament, taking a hori- zontal course forwards and inwards parallel to and a little below the auriculo- temporal nerve and the external pterygoid muscle. It is here embedded in the deep portion of the parotid gland, and usually crosses in front of the mandibular (inferior dental) nerve. (2) In the second part of its course (the pterygoid portion) the artery lies either between the two pterygoid muscles and the ramus of the jaw, and then turns upwards over the outer surface of the external pterygoid, beneath the temporal muscle to gain the two heads of the external pterygoid, between which it sinks into the spheno-maxillary fossa; or it passes behind and internal to the external ptery- goid, and is covered by that muscle till it reaches the interval between its two heads, where it then often forms a projecting loop as it turns into the spheno- maxillary fossa. (3) In the third part of its course (the spheno-maxillary portion) the artery lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa beneath the maxillary division of the fifth nerve, and in close relationship with Meckel's ganglion, and there breaks up into its terminal branches. Branches of the Internal Maxillary Artery The branches of the internal maxillary artery are:— (A) From the first part :—(1) The deep auricular; (2) the tympanic; (3) the large middle meningeal; (4) the mandibular (inferior dental); (5) the small middle meningeal (sometimes). All these vessels pass through bony or cartilagi- nous canals. (B) From the second part:—(1) The masseteric; (2) the posterior deep temporal; (3) the internal pterygoid; (4) the external pterygoid; (5) the buccal; and (6) the anterior deep temporal. All these branches supply muscles. (C) From the third part:—(1) The posterior dental, or alveolar; (2) the infra-orbital; (3) the posterior, or descending palatine; (4) the Vidian; (5) the