1096 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY drawn from the last molar tooth to the angle of the jaw, by entering a knife nearly three-quarters of an inch behind and below the tooth, and cutting towards it on the bone (Moore). Another and far simpler and surer method is to draw the tongue out of the mouth and expose the nerve where it lies superficially under the mucous membrane thus made prominent between the side of the tongue and gums, the centre of the incision being opposite to the last molar tooth (Roser, Letievant). Behind the last molar tooth can be felt the coronoid process, and higher up, just behind and inside the tooth, the hamular process of the sphenoid. This process is a landmark to the site of the posterior palatine canal, which lies just in front of it, and which transmits the posterior and descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary, together with the anterior or great palatine nerve. The vessel and nerve run forwards in grooves towards the anterior palatine canal, and their position must be remembered in raising the flaps during the operation for closure of a cleft in the hard palate. To ensure the vitality of the flaps the incisions must be made close to and parallel with the upper alveolus. On the inner side of the coronoid, between it and the tuberosity of the upper jaw, is a recess where a temporal abscess will point, having travelled down under the fascia and zygoma. When a patient breathes deeply through the mouth, and the head is thrown back, the soft palate is raised, the pillars are separated, and the uvula and fauces, with the anterior and posterior pillars, the tonsils, and the back of the pharynx are exposed. This portion of the pharyngeal mucous membrane would lie over the lower part of the second and the upper part of the third cervical vertebrae, the anterior arch of the atlas corresponding to the level of the posterior nares, and the body of the axis to the level of the soft palate (fig. 671). If a linger be introduced past the soft palate to this part of the spine and turned upwards and downwards, it is possible to examine the upper four or five and, in children, six vertebra?, as far as the anterior surfaces of their bodies. 'The part of the column which is accessible to a straight instrument introduced through the