101 THE RIBS for the scalenus anticus muscle. The groove in front of this surface is for the sub- clavian vein, the groove behind it is for the subclavian artery. Between the groove for the artery and the angle there is a rough surface for the scalenus medius muscle; anterior to this rough surface and close beside the groove is an area from which the first digitation of the serratus magnus takes origin. The under surface is smooth and lacks a groove. The outer border is thick, and rounded for the internal and external intercostal muscles. The costal cartilage of this rib fuses with the manubrium of the sternum; occa- sionally the sternal extremity and costal cartilage of this rib are replaced by fibrous tissue. When a well-developed cervical rib is present, the head of the first may present two facets as in a typical rib. The first rib, with its costal cartilage, gives attachment to the following muscles :— Internal intercostal. External intercostal. Levator costae. Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Subclavius (costal cartilage). Sterno-hyoid (costal cartilage). Pectoralis major (costal cartilage). Serratus magnus. Musculus accessorius. Fig. 110.—The Veetebeal Ends of Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Eibs. ANGLE SINGLE FACET (SOMETIMES TWO FACETS ARE PRE- SENT) SINGLE FACET (THIS RIB HAS AN ANGLE, BUT NO TUBEROSITY AND NO NECK) SINGLE FACET (THIS RIB HAS NEITHER TUBER- OSITY, ANGLE, NOR NECK) XII Blood-supply.—This is derived mainly from the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. The second rib, like the first, is strongly curved; its posterior angle is faintly marked; and the shaft, like that of the first, can lie flat on the table. It has a prominent anterior angle for the serratus magnus. It gives attachment to the following muscles :— Internal intercostals (first and second). Serratus magnus. External intercostals (first and second). Serratus posticus superior. Levator costae. Scalenus posticus. Pectoralis major (costal cartilage). Musculus accessorius. Cervicalis ascendens. Blood-supply.—Superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery, and the first aortic intercostal.