POSTERIOR DIVISIONS OF SPINAL NERVES 781 THORACIC NERVES.—The posterior primary divisions of the thoracic nerves pass backwards between the transverse processes of the thoracic vertebra?, and divide into internal and external branches. The internal branches become pro- gressively smaller from the second to the last of the series. The external branches show a reciprocal increase in size. The internal branches pass to the inner side of the longissimus dorsi, giving branches to that muscle and to the spinalis dorsi, semispinalis, multifidus spinas, rotatores spina?, intertransversales, and interspinales. Large branches from the upper six or seven nerves reach the surface by piercing the origin of the trapezius close to the spinous processes of the vertebra?. They run outwards in the superfi- cial fascia, and supply the integument of the back, including the skin over the inner half of the infraspinous part of the dorsum scapula? and the integument over the supraspinous fossa. The cutaneous branch of the second nerve is the largest of the series. From the lower five or six nerves small twigs usually reach the surface and become cutaneous. The external branches of the upper six or seven nerves end in the accessorius and longissimus dorsi muscles. The lower five or six, after supplying the adjacent muscles, pierce the outer series of insertions of the longissimus dorsi, and appear in the interval between that muscle and the accessorius. They then pierce the latissimus dorsi, and are distributed to the integument on the lower and outer part of the back. lumbar nerves.—The internal branches of all the lumbar nerves end in the multifidus spina?. The external branches of the upper three nerves, after supplying twigs to the adjacent muscles, pierce the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis at the outer border of the erector spina?. The three nerves cross the crest of the ilium and occupy different planes in the thick superficial fascia which covers the upper part of the gluteus medius. The branch from the first nerve is comparatively small, and occupies the most superficial plane. The second occupies an interme- diate position. The branch from the third nerve is the largest of the three, and occupies the deepest position; it distributes branches over the gluteus maximus as far as the great trochanter. The three nerves communicate with one another and also with the cutaneous branches from the posterior divisions of the two upper sacral nerves. The external branch of the fourth lumbar nerve is of small size and ends in the lower part of the erector spina?. The external branch of the fifth lumbar is distributed to the erector spina? and communicates with the first sacral nerve. sacral and coccygeal nerves.—The posterior divisions of the upper four sacral nerves escape from the neural canal by passing through the posterior sacral foramina; the fifth sacral nerve passes between the sacrum and coccyx. The j coccygeal nerve escapes through the termination of the neural canal. The upper three sacral nerves divide in the ordinary manner into internal and external branches, the lower two sacral and the coccygeal nerves remain undivided. The internal branches of the upper three sacral nerves are of small size, and are distributed to the multifidus spina?. The external branches unite with one another and with the external bTanch of the last lumbar nerve to form loops on the posterior surface of the sacrum. From these loops branches proceed to the poste- rior surface of the great sacro-scratic ligament, where they communicate to form a second series of loops, whence two or three branches are given off. These branches pierce the gluteus maximus and come to the surface of that muscle in a line between the posterior superior spine of the ilium and the tip of the coccyx. They are distributed to the integument over the inner part of the gluteus maximus, and communicate, in their course through the superficial fascia, with the posterior branches of the lumbar nerves. The posterior divisions of the lower two sacral and of the coccygeal nerve unite with one another and with the posterior branch of the third sacral, and form loops whence twigs pass to the integument over the lower end of the coccyx.