1060 URINARY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS rectal mucous membrane. It is supplied by the inferior hemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic artery; its veins, of large size and very liable to varicose dilatation, terminate in the inferior haemorrhoidal and pudic veins; its lymphatics open into the inguinal glands; and its nerves are derived from the perinaeal, the pudic, and the fourth sacral. Action.—The external sphincter, by virtue of its elasticity, gives some passive aid to the internal sphincter in maintaining the closure of the anus and the retention of the contents of the rectal cul-de-sac under ordinary conditions; but its active and more important function is to close the anal aperture firmly during the contraction of the levatores ani and other constrictor muscles of the abdomino- pelvic cavity in powerful muscular efforts not connected with defecation (as in vomiting, urination, parturition, expiration, etc.). This it effects partly through the approximation of the opposite sides of the anus by its longitudinal fibres, and partly by the ring-like contraction of its circular fibres. It also aids in flexing the coccyx, and in fixing the tendinous centre of the perinaeum during the contraction of the bulbo-cavernosi. THE PELVIC FASCLE AND MUSCLES In order to understand the constitution of the ischio-rectal fossa? and their relation to adjacent parts, it is necessary to review the muscular elements of the pelvic wall, and the arrangement of the pelvic fascia?. Fig. 648.—Diagram of the Pelvic Fasciae. Transversalis fascia Obturator • Whit Recto-vesical Obturator fascia Ischio-rectal fascia Alcoek's canal with pudic vessels Abdominal muscles }— ILIAC CREST Psoas BORDER OF ACETABULUM Apex of ischio-rectal fossa Levator ani ISCHIAL TUBEROSITY Sphincter ani The osseo-ligamentous framework of the walls of the true pelvis is constituted by the two ossa innominata below the ilio-pubic line and posterior border of the pubic crest, by the sacrum and coccyx, and by the sacro-sciatic, sacro-iliac, and interpubic ligaments, and the obturator membrane. Supplementing these struct- ures on each side of the median line, are four muscles: the obturator interims, the pyriformis, the coccygeus, and the levator ani, together with their fascial invest- ments. The obturator interims and pyriformis have already been described (pages 355- 358). The fascia covering the inner aspect of the former muscle bears a very important relation to the intrapelvic structures.