1024 THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS the external inguinal opening with the strong fibrous bands crossing the columns of the ring, and prolonged, like the dartos, over the penis and perinseum. It is continuous behind with the deep layer of the superficial perinseal fascia, and above with the superficial fascia over the symphysis. (3) The cremasteric or middle spermatic fascia is a well-defined fibro-mus- cular expansion covering the cord and testicle. It consists of a strong double lamina of areolar and elastic tissue enclosing and connecting longitudinal bundles of striped muscle, the fibres of which may be traced above to the external inguinal ring, where they are divided into two principal sets: an inner (often absent), attached to the pubic spine, and an outer derived from the lower border of the internal oblique, and arising from Poupart's ligament opposite the inguinal ring. Below, the tunic blends with the dartos opposite the lower extremity of the testicle. The cremaster contracts during convulsive expiratory actions of the abdominal muscles and under emotional influences. (4) The internal spermatic or ' infundibuliform ' fascia is a delicate con- nective tissue derived from the fascia transArersalis. (5) The subperitoneal fascia beneath the last, and more or less blended with it, is a laminated prolongation of the subperitoneal tissue closely investing the elements of the cord and testicle. It contains elastic fibres, adipose tissue, and unstriped muscular elements, and is the seat of the fatty tumors of the cord which occasionally simulate inguinal hernia. The muscular fibres form a longitudinally directed layer on the deep aspect of the connective-tissue fibres, and are called ' middle cremaster' by Klein and Barrois to distinguish them from the ' external cre- master ' of striped fibres and the ' internal cremaster' described in connection with the cord. (6) The tunica vaginalis, a serous investment of the testicle, is described below. Vessels and Nerves.—The skin and dartos are supplied by branches of the external pudic and superficial perinseal arteries, while the cremaster, the internal spermatic fascia, the subperitoneal fascia, and the visceral layer of the tunica vagi- nalis receive a special branch from the deep epigastric; the corresponding veins communicate with the pudic, the long saphenous, and the dorsal vein of the penis. The lymphatics terminate in the innermost set of the inguinal glands (the lym- phatics of the testicle itself passing to the lumbar glands). The nerves are derived from the genito-crural and superficial perinseal. THE TESTICLES.—The testicles (fig. 622), two in number, are suspended from the inguinal region by the spermatic cords. The left is supposed to hang some- what lower than the right in the majority of persons. Each gland consists of two portions, the testicle proper and the epididymis. Its weight as a whole averages between five and six drachms, rarely attaining the maximum of an ounce; it is about an inch and a half (4 cm.) in length, an inch and a quarter (3 cm. ) in depth (from the anterior to the posterior border), and somewhat less than an inch (22 mm. ) in thickness. It is so suspended in the scrotum that its upper extremity inclines a little more forward than the lower, and its inner surface is turned slightly forwards as well as inwards. The Testicle proper is shaped somewhat like a kidney bean; it is elongated from above downwards, and flattened from side to side. Its surface is smooth and white, and is covered by the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis, except where it is in contact with the epididymis. The Epididymis is adherent to the posterior and inferior part of the testicle proper and inclines slightly to the outer side. It is enlarged above into a head or globus major, and below into a tail or globus minor, the intermediate portion being called the body. The Tunica Vaginalis is a serous sac of peritoneal origin, which bears to the testicle a relation similar to that of the serous pericardium to the heart. It consists of parietal and visceral layers. The visceral layer is intimately adherent to the testicle proper, and to the globus major and outer part of the body of the epididymis, and is prolonged upwards for about half an inch upon the spermatic cord. On the outer side and above, it extends into a deep depression, the digital fossa, between the testicle and epididy-