948 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION temporal bone, behind the condyle of the jaw, and in contact with the tympanic plate; the superficial temporal artery and the temporal branch of the facial nerve emerge from its outer side. The lower extremity rests upon the stylo-maxillary ligament which separates it from the posterior end of the submaxillary gland. Within the substance of the gland are the following structures: The upper part of the external carotid artery with its superficial, temporal, and internal maxillary branches; the commencements of the transverse facial, orbital, and middle tem- poral branches of the superficial temporal artery, and the deep auricular branch of the internal maxillary trunk; the temporo-maxillary vein, its tributaries, and its two terminal branches; the facial nerve, its cervico-facial and temporo-facial divisions crossing the temporo-maxillary vein horizontally, and their terminal branches; the auriculotemporal nerve, branches of the great auricular nerve, and a few deep lymphatic glands which receive afferent vessels from the posterior part of the nasal fossa, the soft palate, and the external auditory meatus. The duct of the parotid (Stenson's) issues from the anterior border of the gland and crosses the masseter a finger's breadth below the zygoma. It penetrates the fat of the cheek and the fibres of the buccinator muscle, between which and the mucous membrane it runs for a short distance before it terminates on the summit of a little papilla, by a minute orifice. This opening is placed opposite the crown of the second upper molar tooth. The duct commences by numerous branches, which converge towards the anterior border of the gland, and receives in its passage across the masseter the duct of the socia parotidis. The canal is about the size of a crow-quill. Its mucous membrane is covered by a columnar epithelium. The coat of the duct is thick and tough, and consists of fibrous tissue intermixed with contractile fibres. The arteries are derived from those lying in the gland substance and from the posterior auricular artery. The veins terminate in the temporo-maxillary trunk. The nerves are derived from the facial, great auricular, the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and the auriculo-temporal. The latter also conveys a branch derived from the glosso-pharyngeal through the lesser petrosal and the otic ganglion. The lymphatics terminate in the superficial and deep cervical glands. The parotid gland has been observed to retain its primitive condition, lying over the mandible and masseter muscle. Its lobes are absent in early childhood. The SUBMAXILLARY GLAND weighs from two to three drachms and it is enclosed in a capsule of deep cervical fascia, except externally, where it is in con- tact with the body of the jaw. It consists of two portions, the superficial and the deep. The superficial portion is much larger than the deep portion; it occupies the fore part of the submaxillary triangle and is prismatic in form, possessing three surfaces and two extremities. The external surface lies in the submaxillary fossa on the inner side of the body of the jaw, and is in relation posteriorly with the internal pterygoid muscle. The lower surface looks downwards and outwards; it is covered by deep fascia, platysma, superficial fascia, and skin; several superficial lymphatic glands, which receive afferent vessels from the lower part of the face, lie upon or embedded in it, and it is crossed by the facial vein and some branches of the facial nerve. The internal surface rests upon the mylohyoid, hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus muscles, and between it and the mylo-hyoid muscle are the mylo- hyoid nerve and artery and the submental branch of the facial artery. The ante- rior extremity is in contact with the anterior belly of the digastric; the posterior extremity is grooved by the facial artery and is in relation with the stylo-maxillary ligament and the posterior belly of the digastric. The deep portion is a mere tongue-like projection which rises from the internal surface of the superficial portion at the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It runs forwards and upwards, in company with the duct, under cover of the mylo- hyoid and upon the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, and genio-glossus muscles; at its commencement the submaxillary ganglion lies just above it, and at its termination it is in close relation with the sublingual gland. The duct of the submaxillary gland (Wharton's) springs from the deep sur- face of the superficial part of the gland; it passes forwards and inwards accompanying