THE ARTERIES 480 by the anastomosis of the internal carotid with the internal carotid of the opposite side through the circle of Willis; by the vertebral with the opposite vertebral; by the inferior thyroid with the superior thyroid ; by the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal with the princeps cervicis of the occipital; by the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, occipital and temporal, with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, and by the ophthalmic with the angular. The anas- tomosis between the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal with the princeps cervicis of the occipital is an important one and is situated deeply at the back of the neck, and is to be found lying between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli muscles. THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY The external carotid artery, the smaller of the two branches into which the common carotid divides at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, is distributed to the anterior part of the neck, the face, and the side of the skull both soft parts and bones, the integuments externally, and dura mater internally. It is develop- mentally derived from the third aortic arch, and supplies the oral and post-oral visceral branches. It is at first situated internal to the internal carotid; but as it ascends in the neck it forms a gentle curve, with its convexity forwards, and, running slightly backwards as Avell as upwards, terminates opposite the neck of the lower jaw just below the condyle, by dividing into the internal maxillary and superficial temporal arteries. It here lies superficial to the internal carotid, from which it is separated by a portion of the parotid gland. At its origin it is overlapped by the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, and is covered by the superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. Higher up the neck it passes beneath the stylo-hyoid muscle, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and the hypo- glossal nerve; and, entering the parotid gland, is situated deeply in that structure at its division into its terminal branches. It is separated from the internal carotid artery posteriorly by the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles, the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, a portion of the parotid gland, and the stylo-hyoid ligament; or, if the styloid process is abnor- mally long, by that process itself. It measures about two and a half inches (6-5 cm.). Relations (fig. 329).—In front, in addition to the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia, it has the hypoglossal nerve, the lingual and facial veins, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoid muscles, the temporo- maxillary vein, the superior cervical lymphatic glands, branches of the facial nerve, and the parotid gland. The sterno-mastoid also overlaps it in the natural state of the parts. Behind, it is in relation with the internal carotid, from which it is separated by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the parotid gland. The superior laryngeal nerve crosses behind both the external and internal carotid arteries. Internally, it is in relation with the hyoid bone, the pharyngeal wall, the ramus of the jaw, the stylo-maxillary ligament which separates it from the submaxillary gland, and the parotid gland. Externally, in the first part of its course, it is in contact with the internal, carotid artery. Chief Variations of the External Carotid Artery The variations of the external carotid artery are not of much surgical importance. The variations in its origin have been discussed under Variations of the Common Carotid. (A) It may be absent, the branches usually derived from it coming off from the upward continuation of the common trunk. (B) It may run superficial to the stylo-hyoid muscle. (C) Its branches may come off irregularly; or may be diminished or increased in number either by two or more arising as a common stem, or by its giving origin to branches not usually derived from it, as the sterno-mastoid branch of either the superior thyroid or occipital artery. (D) At times all its branches come off close together just above its origin. The branches of the external carotid are usually given off in the following order, from below upwards:—