THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 732 rough and is loosely connected by fatty tissue to the ligaments and periosteum which line the neural canal. Some stronger retinacula connect it to the posterior common ligament. Its inner surface, smooth and shining, is separated from the arachnoid by a narrow subdural space. It is connected to the coi'd by a special development of the pia mater—the ligamentum denticulatum. It is continuous through the foramen magnum with the supporting layer of the dura mater of the brain. It sends tubular prolongations around the spinal nerves. These prolonga- tions gradually merge into the connective tissue sheaths (epineurium) of the nerves. Each tube is divided by a septum into two compartments, one for the anterior, and one for the posterior root of the spinal nerve. The differences between the dura mater of the brain and cord may be summarised as follows:—The dura mater of the cord does not send processes or infoldings into the fissures of the cord. It represents only the supporting layer of the dura mater of the brain. The periosteal layer is represented by the periosteum of the neural canal, but is separated from the supporting layer by fatty tissue, and by some venous plexuses. Hence this periosteum is only brought into relation with the dura mater proper by the fact, already noticed (page 672), that the dura mater of the cranium is directly continuous by the medium of the posterior occipito-axial ligament with the periosteum of the neural canal. The ARACHNOID is separated from the dura mater by a narrow subdural space, and is connected to the dura mater only opposite the attachments of the ligamentum denticulatum, to be presently described. It is a thin membrane resembling the cerebral arachnoid, with which it is continuous. It sends tubular investments along the nerve-roots. These investments eventually become continuous with the perineural sheaths of the nerves. It extends downwards within the theca as far as the second or third sacral vertebra, forming a common investment to the bundle of nerve-roots constituting the cauda equina. The subarachnoid tissue is much less abundant in the spinal portion than in the cerebral part of the subarachnoid space. It passes from arachnoid to pia mater in the form of delicate threads, which are separated from one another by compara- tively wide intervals. It also gives support to the nerve-roots as they cross the subarachnoid space (fig. 435). An incomplete membranous septum, the septum posticum (Key and Retzius), passes from arachnoid to pia mater opposite the Fig. 436.—View of the Membranes of the Spinal Coed. (Ellis.) Ligamentum denticulatum POSTERIOR ROOT ANTERIOR ROOT Linea splendens