THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 756 Bit. pit m f (tie i passing through the anterior of the two foramina. In the lower part of the anterior palatine canal the two nerves form a plexiform communication (formerly described as Cloquet's ganglion) and furnish twigs to the anterior part of the hard palate. In this situation they communicate with the anterior palatine nerves. (3) Descending branches.—The descending branches are the great or anterior, the posterior, and the external palatine nerves. Like the internal set of branches, they are in part derived from the ganglion and in part directly continuous with the sphenopalatine nerves. The great or anterior palatine nerve arises from the inferior angle of Meckel's ganglion, and passes downwards through the posterior palatine canal, accompanied by the descending palatine artery. Emerging from the canal, it divides into two or three branches, which pass forwards in grooves in the hard palate and supply the glands and mucous membrane of the hard palate and the gums on the inner aspect of the alveolar border of the upper jaw. During its course through the posterior palatine canal, the anterior palatine nerve gives off, usually two, inferior nasal nerves. These nerves pass through small openings in the perpendicular plate of the palate bone to supply the mucous membrane covering the back parts of the inferior turbinated bone and lining the middle and inferior meatuses of the nose. The posterior or small palatine nerve passes downwards through the acces- sory palatine canal, and enters the soft palate, distributing branches to that organ, to the uvula, and to the tonsil. It was formerly believed to convey motor fibres from the facial nerve to the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles, but these muscles are now known to be supplied by the spinal accessory nerve, through the pharyn- geal plexus. The external palatine nerve, the smallest of the three, traverses the external palatine canal, and supplies twigs to the tonsil and to the adjacent part of the soft palate. (4) Posterior branch.—The Vidian is considered by some anatomists to be a branch, in which case it would be classed here. We have, however, regarded it as the united motor and sympathetic root of the ganglion; therefore, the pharyn- geal branch only remains to be described. The pharyngeal branch is of small size, and passes backwards and somewhat inwards through the pterygo-palatine canal, accompanied by the pterygo-palatine artery. It is distributed to the mucous membrane of the uppermost part of the pharynx, to the upper part of the posterior nares, to the opening of the Eustachian tube, and to the lining of the sphenoidal sinus. Third or Mandibular Division of the Fifth Nerve The mandibular (inferior maxillary) division is the largest of the three divisions of the fifth nerve, and is formed, as before stated, by the union of two I distinct parts, namely, the entire motor root of the fifth nerve and a large bundle of fibres derived from the sensory root and traversing the Gasserian ganglion. These two parts pass through the foramen ovale and unite immediately outside the skull to form a large trunk which terminates almost directly after its formation by dividing into a smaller anterior and a larger posterior portion. The anterior portion is chiefly motor, and the posterior division mainly sensory in function. Previous to its division, two branches arise from the trunk of the nerve, namely, the recur- rent nerve and the nerve to the internal pterygoid. (1) The recurrent nerve enters the cranium through the foramen spinosum, accompanying the middle meningeal artery, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch communicates with the meningeal branch of the maxillary division of the fifth nerve, furnishes filaments to the dura mater, and ends in the osseous substance of the great wing of the sphenoid. The posterior branch traverses the petro-squamous suture and ends in the lining membrane of the mastoid cells. (2) The nerve to the internal pterygoid passes under cover of a dense layer of fascia derived from an expansion of the ligamentum pterygo-spinosum, and enters the deep surface of the muscle. Near its commencement this nerve furnishes a motor root to the otic ganglion.