104 THE SKELETON attachment to the costoclavicular ligament. Between it and the first thoracic rib there was a well-marked intercostal space occupied by intercostal muscles. It received the attachment of the scalenus anticus and medius muscles, and it was crossed by the subclavian artery and vein. The nerves of the intercostal space were supplied in part by the eighth cervical and first dorsal. The artery of the space was derived from the deep cervical, which, with the superior intercostal, an isc from the root of the vertebral. The head of the first thoracic rib in this specimen articu- lated with the seventh cervical, as well as with the first thoracic vertebra. An interesting fact is also recorded in the careful account of this specimen :—There was no movable twelfth thoracic rib on the same side as this well-developed cervical rib, and the twelfth thoracic vertebra had mammiljary and accessory processes, and a strong elongated costal process, and was in linear series with the lumbar transverse processes. Gruber and Turner from a careful and elaborate study of this question summarise the varia- tions in the cervical rib thus :—It may be very short and possess only a head, neck, and tubercle. When it extends beyond the transverse process, its shaft may end freely or join the first thoracic rib : this union may be effected by bone, cartilage, or ligament. In very rare instances it may have a costal cartilage and join the manubrium of the sternum. Not unfrequently a process, or eminence, exists on the first thoracic rib at the spot when it articulates with a cervical rib. Lumbar ribs are of less significance than cervical ribs and rarely attain a great length. Their presence is easily accounted for, as they are the differentiated costal elements of the trans- verse processes. They are never so complete as in cervical ribs, and articulate only with the transverse processes ; the head never reaches as far as the body of the vertebra, and there is no neck or tubercle. An extra levator costce muscle is associated with a lumbar rib. Not the least interesting variation of a rib is that known as the bicipital rib. This condi- tion is seen exclusively in connection with the first thoracic rib. The vertebral end consists of two limbs which lie in different transverse planes. These bicipital ribs have been especially studied in whales and man. This abnormality is due to the fusion of two ribs, either of a cervical rib with the shaft of the first thoracic ; or the more common form, the fusion of the first and second true ribs. Among unusual variations of ribs should be mentioned the replacement of the costal cartilage and a portion of the rib-shaft by fibrous tissue, a process which occurs as a normal event, during development, in the eighth rib. Sometimes the shafts of two or more ribs may become united by small quadrilateral plates of bone extending across the intercostal spaces. The sternum is a thin flat bone situated in the anterior wall of the thorax. In tin' young subject it consists of six pieces, or sternebree. Of these, the four middle fuse together to form the gladiolus (mesosternum); the superior remains distinct throughout life as the manubrium (pre-sternum); and the lower segment, also distinct until very advanced life, is the xiphoid (metasternum). The anterior surface of the adult sternum is convex, and gives origin to the pcctoralis major muscle of each side; near its superior angle the sterno-mastoid muscle arises. This surface is traversed by five lines, indicating the former segmentation of this bone. The posterior surface is concave, and traversed by five lines corresponding to those on the anterior surface. At the upper part it gives origin to the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid, muscles. The posterior surface of the lower four segments gives origin to the triangularis sterni. The xiphoid, is usually perforated; a branch of each internal mammary artery traverses the foramen; and on each side of it a portion of the diaphragm is attached. Occasionally the xiphoid is bifid. The superior border presents the interclavicular notch, to which the fibres of the interclavicular liga- ment are attached; this border terminates at each end in an articular notch for the sternal end of the clavicle. The margins of the notch give attachment to the sterno- clavicular ligaments. The lateral borders of the sternum present a series of depres- sions, which receive the sternal extremities of the costal cartilages of the first seven ribs, and occasionally that of the eighth (see fig. 112). The borders intervening be- tween these depressions or notches are in relation with the internal intercostal muscles. In order to appreciate the nature of these notches, it is advantageous to study the sternum in a young subject. Each typical sternebra presents four angles; each angle presents a demi-facet. Between every two sternebra? there is an intersterne- bral disc; when two sternebra? are in position, each notch for a costal cartilage is formed by a sternebra above and below with an intersternebral disc in the middle, thus repeating the relation of the rib-head to the vertebral centra. Later in life these fuse more or less together, except in the case of the first and second sternebra?, which usually remain separate to the end of life. The first (pre-sternum) is the most modified of all the sternebra?, and differs from them in the fact that the costal cartilage of the first rib is continuous with it, and in the fact that it supports the