STRUCTURE OF THE SKIN 1075 definite plan. Langer and others have shown that if the skin is punctured by an awl, the aperture left on withdrawing the implement is not round, but linear or angular. On the scalp, forehead, chin, and epigastrium a triangular or ragged hole is produced, while over the rest of the body the ' cleavage' is linear, the lines affecting a direction nearly at right angles to the long axis of the limbs, and on the trunk running obliquely downwards, and outwards from the spine. The linear cleavage indicates that the bundles run mainly in one direction, while the ' incom- plete ' cleavage is associated with a crossing in all directions. The arrangement of the vessels of the skin is said to be governed by the cleavage, and the form and distribution of certain skin eruptions are probably connected with these factors. The papillae are very closely set—from 36 to 130, according to Sappey, lying within a square millimetre. The largest are found in the palm and sole and under the nail, reaching a height of half a line or a line (1 to 2 mm. ); the smallest, distributed over the face, scrotum, and mammilla?, having only a third or a fourth of these dimensions. The forms usually assumed are those of simple cones, but some are slightly bulbous at their free extremities; others have duplicated apices, and those about the palmar and plantar surfaces of the hands and feet form long curvilinear ridges, which are pierced by the orifices of the sweat ducts, and separated from each other by furrows. It is only in these latter situations that the arrange- ment of the papilke is unconcealed by the epidermis. Structurally, the papilla consists of a delicate fibrous tissue containing vessels and nerves, or, in certain situations, a special tactile body. Its subepidermic surface and that of the inter- papillary depressions is modified into a delicate, structureless lamina, called the membrana basilaris. The epiderm, or cuticle, is a layer of varying depth, the thickness being regu- lated chiefly by the amount of pressure or friction to which the part is habitually subjected. Its deep aspect is moulded to the papillary layer of the derm, while its free surface gives little or no indication of the papillary eminences except on the palms and soles, but it displays numberless apertures of glands and hair-follicles, which it lines with tubular prolongations. Structurally, it consists entirely of epi- thelial cells of various shapes. The component cells may be divided into five distinct layers, arranged from within outwards in the following order: (1) The stratum basilare, or generative layer, consists of a single set of nucleated, prismatic cells, the denticulated bases of which rest upon the basement membrane of the clerm. (2) The stratum Malpighii, succeeding this, is a soft, relatively thick layer, composed of several ranges of nucleated cells, polyhedral in shape, denticulated on all sides, and separated from each other by fine intercellular channels, in which may be lymph corpuscles and even pigment. The cells are the seat of the pigment granules which give to the skin a portion of its colour. (3) The stratum granulosum comprises two or three layers of transitional cells, resembling those of the stratum Malpighii in the denticulation of their opposed sides, but flattened in the direction of the surface and containing a number of minute granules, which readily take the stain of carmine or logwood, and are composed of a peculiar substance, called eleidin, or kerato-hyalin, that is said to be the active agent in the keratinic transformation of the more superficial cells, and is, perhaps, to be regarded as the earliest product of the retrograde change which ends in keratinisation. (4) The overlying layer, the stratum lucidum of Oehl, represents the first stage of the horny change. It is seen in sections of the skin as a transparent band, which on close examination is found to be made up of colourless cells with indistinct marginal denticulation and atrophic nuclei, and flattened in the direction of the surface. (5) The superficial layer, the stratum corneum, is not very sharply defined from the last, and shows a further advance in the horny degeneration, if such a term may be applied to a purposeful and necessary change. The cells are highly keratinised, and appear as thin, transparent scales, from which both denticulation and nucleation have dis- appeared, the latter, however, still being traceable after maceration in dilute alkalies. The life history of the epidermis appears to be that of a continuous genesis, from the stratum basilare, of new cells which rise slowly towards the surface to assume in succession the characters of the cells in the older stratum above, and become in turn replaced by their successors from below, until, having passed through all the