THE VULVA 1039 flanked on either side by an erectile body, the bulbus vestibuli, and pierced in the middle line by the urethra (fig. 631, 632). The labia majora correspond morphologically to the scrotum in the male. They are two folds of integument about three inches in length, continuous above the symphysis, with an eminence called the mons Veneris, and meeting below in a posterior commissure, or fourchette, about an inch in front of the anus. Each labium has two surfaces: an outer, pigmented and covered with strong crisp hairs; an inner, in contact with its fellow, smooth, presenting only rudimentary hairs, but beset with large sebaceous follicles. The fissure between the two labia, called the rima pudendi, is horizontally placed in the erect posture. The structures forming the labia resemble those of the scrotum, but the dartos is imperfectly developed, and each labium contains a well-defined encapsulated subcutaneous mass of fat, of somewhat ovoid shape, which blends above with the distal extremity of the round ligament. A similar mass is occasionally found in the male scrotum as a fatty tumour of the cord, and may simulate an inguinal hernia. The labia minora, or nymphae, are folds differing from the labia majora in their relatively small size and in the absence of hairs and fat. The two plications unite above, embracing the clitoris and forming the praeputium clitoridis ; below, they diverge and terminate opposite to or a little behind the middle of the rima genitalis. They are smooth and hairless on the surface, usually of a pale rose colour, and their free border, which projects for a very variable distance, is convex and often crenulated or lobed. They are usually concealed by the labia majora, except in the foetus; but are sometimes largely developed, and may project beyond the genital fissure, then assuming a dry pigmented aspect. The sebaceous glands are large and occupy both surfaces. They are poorly developed until puberty, and attain their greatest size and activity during pregnancy. The vestibule is the space between the labia minora and the vaginal orifice.