THE URINARY ORGANS 1020 of the bladder, but in morbid conditions of the prostate the borders of the aperture may be considerably elevated above the adjacent vesical zone. The female bladder (fig. 619) presents no peculiarities of importance, except that its frontal diameter is usually increased at the expense of the sagittal diameter, partly in consequence of the greater width of the pelvis, and partly owing to the presence of the vagina and uterus, which encroach upon the space in the middle line. Lateral asymmetry is very common. Furthermore, the symphysis being of less depth than in the male, the urinary orifice lies nearer its lower border. In the infant the bladder is said to be an abdominal organ, but this is not strictly accurate. The relatively small pelvic cavity at this period of life is occupied mainly by the rectum, and there is little room for the bladder, which hence rises Fig. 619.—Section of the Female Pelvis. (After Henle.) SYMPHYSIS PERITONEUM VESICAL WALL CAVITY OF BLADDER Prevesical fat Dorsal vein CLITORIS Deep transver- sus perinaei LABIUM MAJUS / TJustriped muscular fibre URETHRA LABIUM MINUS TJustriped muscular fibre ANUS Internal sphincter ani Part of external sphincter ani RECTUM COCCYX Kecto-coccy- geal muscle POSTERIOR LIP OF OS UTERI ANTERIOR LIP VAGINA External sphincter ani Internal sphincter ani VAGINAL ORIFICE into the abdomen even in moderate degrees of distension; but, as pointed out by Symington, if a line be drawn from the sacral promontory to the top of the symphysis, fully one-half of the bladder will be found to lie below it, and hence within the pelvis. The internal meatus, however, is behind the upper margin of the symphysis, and the whole organ is hence above the horizontal level of the pubic crests. This relation gradually changes from the period at which independent locomotion begins, till, by the age of six, when the pelvic wall has grown up around the viscus, the position does not differ materially from that in the adult, It should also be noted that the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum extends in infancy nearly as low as the base of the prostate. Vessels.—The arteries of the bladder are derived from the internal iliac and