THE COLON 973 vexity forwards; it also bends a little downwards. It crosses through the umbilical region from the right hypochondrium to the left hypochondrium (fig. 565). In the majority of cases the superficial part of the colic arch—as seen before the viscera are disturbed—is either in whole or in greater part above a straight line drawn transversely across the body between the highest points of the iliac crest. In the proportion of one to four it lies, in whole or in greater part, below this line (% 582). Certain remarkable bends are sometimes formed by this part of the bowel. The bending is always in the same direction, namely, downwards, and is usually abrupt and angular. The apex of the V or U-shaped bend thus formed may reach the pubes. This bend appears to be due to two distinct causes: namely, long-continued distension on the one hand, and to congenital malformation on the other. The transverse colon is in relation above with the liver and gall bladder, the stomach, and at its left extremity with the spleen. The third portion of the duo- denum passes behind it. Below are the coils of the small intestine. It is sur- rounded with peritoneum, being connected with the posterior abdominal wall by a meso-colon. The descending colon extends from the spleen to the sigmoid flexure. It is more movable than the ascending colon. It is also narrower. At its beginning it is connected with the diaphragm, on a level with the tenth and eleventh ribs, by a fold of peritoneum, the costo-colic ligament (or sustentaculum lienis, from the fact that it supports the spleen). The bend between the transverse colon and descend- ing colon is called the splenic flexure. The descending colon is situated in the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions (fig. 591). Its relations to the peritoneum are the same as obtain with the ascending colon, that is, it is covered in front and on the sides. A meso-colon is met with oftener on this side than on the right. In one hundred dissections it was found thirty-six times. The descending colon is covered in front by the small intestine; behind, are part of the diaphragm, the left kidney, and the quadratus lumborum muscle (fig. 577). The sigmoid flexure and rectum.—The segment of gut termed the sigmoid flexure, and the so-called first part of the rectum, form together a single simple loop that cannot be divided into parts. This loop begins where the descending colon ends, viz., in the left iliac fossa, and ends at the commencement of the so-called second piece of the rectum—at the spot where the meso-rectum ceases, opposite about the third piece of the sacrum in the median line. The loop when unfolded describes a figure that may be compared to the capital omega. The aver- age length of this sigmoid or omega loop is seventeen inches and a half. The normal position of the loop is not in the left iliac fossa, but wholly in the pelvis. The most common disposition of it may now be described. The descending colon ends just at the outer border of the psoas. The gut here suddenly changes its direction, and the sigmoid or omega loop begins (figs. 565, 577). The bowel crosses the muscle at right angles and about midway between the lumbo-sacral eminence and Poupart's ligament. It now descends vertically along the left pelvic wall, and may at once reach the pelvic floor. It then passes more or less horizontally and transversely across the pelvis from left to right, and commonly comes into contact with the right pelvic wall. At this point it is bent upon itself, and, passing once more towards the left, reaches the middle line and descends to the anus. It will lie therefore in more or less direct contact with the bladder and uterus, and may possibly touch the caecum. It is very closely related with the coils of small gut that occupy the pelvis, and by these coils the loop is usually hidden. The sigmoid or omega loop is attached to the abdominal and pelvic wall by a meso-colon, so that it is quite surrounded by peritoneum. The line of attachment of this meso-colon is as follows: It crosses the psoas at a right angle, and then takes a slight curve upwards so as to pass over the iliac vessels at or about their bifurcation. The curve ends at a point either just to the inner side of the psoas muscle, or between the psoas and the middle line, or, as is most frequently the case, just over the bifurcation of the vessels. From this point the line of attachment proceeds vertically down, taking at first a slight curve to the right. Its course is to the left of the middle line, while its ending will be upon that line, about the third