921 THE LUNGS right side the anterior border passes obliquely downwards from the apex, behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, to the middle line, at the junction of the manu- brium with the body of the sternum (fig. 521), thence it descends vertically to the lower end of the gladiolus. The lower border extends round the base of the sac, commencing at the lower end of the gladiolus it runs downwards and outwards behind the seventh costal cartilage, still descending it crosses the seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs reaching the lower border of the latter in the mid-axillary line; passing backwards it comes into relation with the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, and ascending to the head of the latter it joins the posterior border, and then, turning forwards, it passes along the groove between the pericardium and the dia- phragm to its point of commencement. The posterior border extends from the neck of the first rib to the head of the twelfth; it is broad and rounded. The anterior border on the left side descends inwards behind the sterno-clavicular artic- ulation as on the right side, and reaches the middle line at the same point, then it passes vertically downwards to the level of the fifth chondro-sternal articulation (fig. 521), from this point it runs downwards and outwards behind the cartilages Fig. 542.—Anterior View of F<etal Heart, Vessels, and Lungs. DUCTUS ARTERIOSUS Pulmonary artery SUPERIOR LOBE OF LEFT ■ LUNG -V LEFT AURICULAR APPENDIX V Pulmonary artery =_ INFERIOR LOBE i— Descending aorta of the fifth and sixth ribs to the seventh costo-chondral joint, where it joins the inferior border. The inferior border descends across the eighth, nine, and tenth ribs to the lower border of the latter in the mid-axillary line, further back it crosses the eleventh rib and ascends along the twelfth rib to join the posterior border, as on the right side. The general relations of the inner part of the lower border and the whole of the posterior border are the same as on the right side. The lower extremity of the pleural sac does not extend to the lower extremity of the thorax, laterally; therefore for a short distance the diaphragm and the lowest intercostal muscles are in contact. Below the root of each lung a fold of the pleura descends to the diaphragm, the ligamentum latum pulmonis. The pleural sacs on each side pass for an inch or more above the level of the anterior part of the first rib, beneath the scalene muscles, covering the apices of the lungs, and the parietal layer is here strengthened by a dome of fascia which descends from beneath the muscles to the inner border of the first rib. The interval between the two sacs is considerable both above and below; but opposite the second piece of the sternum, corresponding with the second, third, and fourth rib cartilages (fig. 521), they are closely approximated or in actual contact. The lungs are not quite so extensive as the pleural sacs, and this is more espe-