THE LYMPHATICS 656 glands receive the lymphatics from the mammary gland, the side of the chest, and the integument of the upper portion of the abdominal wall. The subscapular glands receive the lymphatics from the integuments of the back. The infra- clavicular glands receive the lymphatics from the outer part of the arm and integu- ments covering the deltoid. They communicate, above with the cervical lymphatics, and below with the other glands in the axilla. The efferent vessels from all these glands run upwards along the subclavian vein, and enter the neck either as four distinct trunks, or as a single trunk (the axillary lymphatic trunk), and ter- minate on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the right lym- phatic duct. The communication between the glands in the axilla is very free. Thus, in secondary infiltration following carcinoma of the breast, although the pectoral glands may at first be alone affected, the remaining sets generally become also involved. THE LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX The lymphatics of the thorax may be divided into the parietal, which ramify in the thoracic walls; and the visceral, which receive the lymph from the thoracic viscera. The thoracic duct, which conveys the lymph from the lower extremities and from the greater part of the abdomen, passes through the posterior mediastinum on its way to the confluence of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins at the root of the neck, and is described here with the lymphatics of the thorax. I. THE PARIETAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE THORAX 1. The parietal lymphatic vessels are divided into the superficial and the deep. The superficial parietal lymphatics ramify beneath the integuments, over the pectoralis major in front, the serratus magnus laterally, and the trapezius and latissimus dorsi behind. They all converge towards the axilla, and end in the axillary glands. The lymphatics of the mammary gland end for the most part in the pectoral set of the axillary glands, but those from the inner portion of the gland pass through the second, third, and fourth intercostal spaces into the internal mammary lymphatic chain of glands, and thus open into the thoracic duct on the left, and the right lymphatic duct on the right side. According to Macalister, the lymphatics from the nipple and areola pass more deeply into the axilla, and end in one of the axillary glands, placed nearer to the clavicle than the pectoral set. The deep parietal lymphatics are subdivided into (1) the intercostal and (2) the diaphragmatic. (1) The intercostal lymphatics accompany the intercostal arteries and receive the lymph from the intercostal muscles and the parietal pleura. Those in the anterior part of the intercostal space run forwards and end in the internal mammary or anterior intercostal lymphatic glands. Those in the posterior part of the space run backwards, and—after receiving the dorsal lymphatic vessels which accompany the dorsal branches of the intercostal arteries between the transverse processes of the vertebra?, and return the lymph from the muscles of the back and from the spinal canal—end in the intercostal or posterior intercostal lymphatic glands. (2) The diaphragmatic lymphatics follow the vessels of the diaphragm. They terminate, anteriorly in the internal mammary and anterior mediastinal lymphatic glands; postero-laterally in the lower intercostal lymphatics and in the lymphatics accompanying the musculo-phrenic artery; and posteriorly in the pos-