THE MUSCLES 330 radius near the middle of that bone for about two inches (5 cm.) below the inser- tion of the supinator brevis; and (4) the septa which separate it from the supinator brevis, extensor carpi ulnaris, and extensor longus pollicis. Insertion.—(1) The small impression upon the radial side of the base of the first metacarpal bone; (2) the fascia covering the ball of the thumb; and frequently (3) the back of the trapezium. Structure.—A somewhat bipenniform muscular sheet arising by an origin which stretches obliquely downwards and outwards from the back of the ulna, at the upper part of its middle third, to the middle of the back of the radius. The tendon appears first as an aponeurosis upon the anterior aspect of the muscle just below the middle of the forearm. The fleshy fibres pass obliquely downwards and outwards to be inserted upon the posterior face of this aponeurosis. This as it descends thickens into a rounded tendon, which, becoming free from its muscular fibres just above the posterior annular ligament, crosses the back of the two radial extensor tendons, and enters the first compartment of the posterior annular liga- ment upon the outer surface of the lower end of the radius. After leaving this compartment, the tendon passes vertically downwards, lying upon the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint and the radial artery, to be inserted into the first metacarpal bone. From its anterior border a strong aponeurosis is given off to that part of the palmar fascia which covers the ball of the thumb, and which forms a part of the origin of the abductor pollicis. Frequently this division of the insertion is indicated by a groove running up the tendon, or by a more complete separation which may extend as high as the fleshy fibres of the muscle. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh cervical nerve) by filaments derived from the posterior interosseous division of the musculo-spiral nerve which enter the muscle upon the upper part of its superficial aspect. Action.—(1) It abducts and extends the first metacarpal bone, drawing the thumb away from the middle line of the hand, and slightly forwards. (2) It abducts the wrist. It should be remembered that on account of the plane of the thumb being different to that of the palm and fingers, its abduction involves a considerable forward movement, which must not be confounded with flexion. Relations.—Superficially, the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, the posterior interosseous artery, and posterior annular ligament; deeply, the extensor brevis and the extensor longus pollicis, the two radial extensors, the radial artery, and the wrist-joint. Variations.—The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis may receive au accessory slip from the radial group of extensors. 3. EXTENSOR BREVIS POLLICIS The extensor brevis pollicis—sometimes called the extensor primi inter- nodii pollicis, from its action upon the first phalanx (internodius) of the thumb— is flat and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The middle of the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane just below the preceding muscle; (2) an elongated impression upon the inner part of the posterior surface of the radius extending from the middle of that bone for about three inches (7'5 cm.) downwards and slightly outwards; (3) an aponeurosis which separates it from the preceding muscle. Insertion.—The back of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Structure.—A penniform muscle arising by short tendinous fibres. These soon become fleshy, and pass downwards and outwards to a tendon which begins in the lower third of the forearm upon the radial border of its superficial aspect. Lying ■ beneath the tendon of the preceding muscle and in close connection with it, this tendon passes OA'er the tendons of the radial extensors, runs through the first com- partment of the posterior annular ligament, crosses the first metacarpophalangeal joint on the ulnar side of the tendon of the preceding muscle, and then expands into a broad aponeurosis which is inserted into the whole of the posterior surface of the base of the first phalanx.