586 THE ARTERIES femoral just before the latter perforates the adductor magnus muscle, and almost immediately divides into two branches, (a) a superficial and (b) a deep. These branches may sometimes come off separately from the femoral. (a) The superficial branch pierces the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal, passes between the sartorius and gracilis muscles along with the internal saphenous nerve, and, perforating the deep fascia, supplies the skin of the upper and inner side of the leg and anastomoses with the inferior internal articular branch of the popliteal and the other vessels forming the plexus or rete at the inner side of the knee. In its course it gives twigs to the lower part of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. ( b) The deep branch runs downwards in front of the adductor magnus tendon, burrowing amongst the fibres of the vastus interims as far as the internal condyle, where it passes into the plexus or rete on the inner side of the knee-joint, anastomosing with the internal inferior articular branch of the popliteal, the anterior tibial recurrent, and the external superior articular branch of the popliteal across the front of the femur just above the articular surface of the knee-joint. In common with the rest of the rete it sends branches into the knee-joint. It also supplies branches to the vastus internus and crureus muscles. THE POPLITEAL ARTERY The popliteal artery (fig. 375) runs through the popliteal space or ham. It is a continuation of the femoral, and extends from the aponeurotic opening in the adductor magnus at the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by dividing into the posterior and anterior tibial arteries. This division is on a level with the lower border of the tubercle of the tibia. As the artery passes through the opening in the adductor magnus, it is accompanied by the popliteal vein, and at times by the branch of the obturator nerve to the knee-joint. The vein throughout is behind the artery, at first lying a little external to it, but as the vessels pass through the popliteal space the vein crosses obliquely over the artery, and at the termination of the artery lies a little to its inner side. The internal popliteal nerve is superficial to both artery and vein. As it enters the space it is well to the outer side of the vessels, but as it descends it gradually approaches them, crosses behind them, and at the lower part of the space lies to their inner side. The artery in the whole of its course is deeply placed and covered by a considerable amount of fat and cellular tissue. Relations (fig. 374).—In front, the artery lies successively on the popliteal surface of the femur (from which it is separated by a little fat and sometimes one or two small glands); on the posterior ligament of the knee; on the hinder edge of the articular surface of the head of the tibia; and on the popliteus muscle. From the latter muscle it is separated by the expansion from the semi-membranosus which covers the muscle, and is attached to the oblique line on the tibia. Behind, the artery is covered, above by the semi-membranosus; in the centre of the space by the skin, superficial and deep fascia; and below by the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The popliteal vein is behind it in the whole of its course. The internal popliteal nerve crosses behind it obliquely from without inwards, about the centre of the space. As the artery divides into the anterior and posterior tibial, it is crossed by the aponeurotic arch of the soleus which stretches between the tibial and fibular origins of that muscle. To the inner side are the semi-membranosus above, and the inner head of the gastrocnemius and the internal popliteal nerve below. To the outer side are the biceps and the internal popliteal nerve above, and the outer head of the gastrocnemius and the plantaris below. Principal variations in the popliteal.—(A) It may divide higher, or more rarely lower than usual. (B) It may divide into the anterior tibial and peroneal. (C) The vein may be deeper than the artery, or separated from it by a slip of the gastrocnemius.