EXTERNAL PLANTAR 593 (6) The malleolar or internal malleolar branches are distributed, as the name implies, over the internal malleolus, anastomosing with the other arteries entering into the retiform plexus of vessels over that portion of bone. In their course to the malleolus, they ran beneath the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles. (7) The calcanean or internal calcanean branch is distributed to the soft parts over the inner side of the calcaneum. This branch—or, as is frequently the case, branches—comes off from the posterior tibial just before its bifurcation, and anastomoses with the internal malleolar and peroneal arteries (fig. 379). (8) The terminal branches are the external and internal plantar arteries. THE EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY The external plantar artery—the larger of the two branches into which the posterior tibial divides beneath the internal annular ligament—passes at first obliquely forwards and outwards across the sole of the foot to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, where it makes a bend forwards and inwards, and, sinking deeply into the foot, terminates at the proximal end of the first interosseous space by anastomosing with the communicating branch of the dorsal artery of the foot. In its course to the fifth metatarsal bone the artery runs in a more or less straight line obliquely across the foot; whilst its deep portion, extending from the fifth metatarsal bone to the proximal end of the first interosseous space, forms a slight curve with the convexity forwards, and is known as the plantar arch. The plantar arch is comparable to the deep palmar arch formed by the deep branch of the ulnar anastomosing with the radial through the first interosseous space. This homology is at times more complete in that the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis, the homologue of the radial in the upper limb, takes the chief share in forming the arch. The external plantar artery is accompanied by two veins. The course of the artery is indicated by a line drawn across the sole of the foot from a point midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the greater tubercle of the calcaneum to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and thence forwards and inwards to the posterior part of the ball of the great toe. Relations.—In the first part of its course from the inner ankle to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, the artery is covered successively by the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum, by which it is separated from the plantar fascia, and may be slightly overlapped in muscular subjects by the abductor minimi digiti. As it approaches the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, it lies, as it turns forwards and inwards before sinking into the foot, in the interspace between the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor minimi digiti, and is here only covered by the skin and superficial fascia, and the plantar fascia. It lies upon the cal- caneum, the flexor accessorius, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. It is accom- panied by the external plantar nerve, the smaller of the two divisions into which the posterior tibial nerve divides. In this part of its course it gives off small branches to the contiguous muscles and to the heel. In the second part of its course the artery, which is here known as the plantar arch, sinks into the sole, and is covered, in addition to the skin, superficial fascia, plantar fascia, and flexor brevis digitorum, by the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, the lumbricales, branches of the internal plantar nerve, and the adductor hallucis. It lies upon the proximal ends of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones and the corresponding interosseous muscles. The branches of the external plantar artery are:—(1) Muscular; (2) cal- caneal; (3) cutaneous; (4) anastomotic; (5) articular; (6) posterior perforating; and (7) digital. (1) The muscular branches of the external plantar are distributed to the contiguous muscles; in the first part of its course to the flexor brevis digitorum, and the accessorius; as it makes its bend into the sole, to the muscles of the little toe; and, as it forms the plantar arch, to the interossei, flexor brevis hallucis, and adductor hallucis. (2) The calcanean are two or three small branches which are distributed over 38