THE SHOULDER 1149 Thoracic First. Summit of arch of subclavian (Godlee). Second. Level of episternal notch. This is usually opposite the fibro-cartilage between the second and third. Bifurcation of innominate (Godlee). Third. Level of junction between the manubrium and the gladiolus. This is sometimes opposite the fifth. Lowest limit of superior mediastinum. Bifurca- tion of trachea. Beginning of superior cava. Highest part of aortic arch. Fourth. Second piece of aortic arch reaches spine. Arch of vena azygos major. Fifth. Termination of third piece of aortic arch. Fifth to eighth. Base of heart. Sixth. Pulmonary and aortic valves. Commencement of aorta and pulmonary artery. End of superior cava. Seventh. Mitral orifice. Eighth. Tricuspid orifice. Ninth. Lower level of manubrium. Openings in diaphragm for inferior vena cava and oesophagus. Upper limit of spleen. Tenth. Level of tip of xiphoid cartilage. Lower limit of lung posteriorly. Upper limit of liver comes to the surface posteriorly. (Esophagus passes through diaphragm. Cardiac orifice of stomach. Eleventh. Lower border of spleen. Suprarenal capsule. Twelfth. Lowest part of pleura. Aorta passes through diaphragm (upper border). Cceliac axis (lower border). Pylorus. Upper border of kidney. Lumbar First. Pancreas. Pelvis of kidney. Renal arteries (ending). Second. Spinal cord ends at junction of first and second. Third piece of duodenum. Receptaculum chyli. Lower end of left kidney. Third. Umbilicus, opposite fibro-cartilage, between this and fourth. Lower end of right kidney. Lower limit of liver on right side. Fourth. Bifurcation of aortic arch. Highest part of iliac crest. Fifth. Commencement of superior vena cava. Sacral Third. End of first piece of rectum. Lower limit of spinal membranes. Coccyx (tip). End of second piece of rectum. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE UPPER LIMB THE SHOULDER The following surface-marks, of the greatest importance in determining the nature of shoulder injuries, can be made out here :—The clavicle in its whole extent, the acromion process, the great tuberosity, and upper part of the shaft of the humerus. Much less distinctly, the position of the coracoid process and the head of the humerus can be made out. The anterior margin of the clavicle, convex internally and concave externally, can be made out in its whole extent, .the bone, if traced outwards, being found not to be horizontal, but rising somewhat to its junction with the acromion. The tip of this process, when the arm hangs by the side, is in the same line as the external condyle and the styloid process of the radius. On the inner side, the head and internal condyle of the humerus and the styloid process of the ulna are in the same line. Thus the