THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 968 soon attains its full length, and within one foot of the end of the duodenum is already six inches in length. The ordinary type of mesentery conforms to the figure of half a circle, but the membrane is liable to considerable variation. It is not uncommon to find the mesentery maintaining a considerable length up nearly to the end of the ileum. Structure of the small intestine.—Its coats are four in number—viz., serous, muscular, areolar; and mucous. The intestine receives its serous covering from the peritoneum, and, with the exception of certain parts of the duodenum which have been described, it is covered entirely by it, save only where the layers leave it behind to form the mesentery. The line of attachment of the mesentery marks the attached border of the small intestine. The muscular coat is divided into an external longitudinal layer and an internal circular, the circular being the thicker of the two. Both layers are uniform around the bowel, and become thinner as the erecum is approached. The areolar or submucous coat consists of areolar tissue connecting the muscular and mucous tunics. A thin layer of muscular tissue separates the mucous mem- brane from the areolar coat (muscularis mucosae). The mucous coat, thicker at the upper part than the lower part, is lined through- out with columnar epithelium and is very vascular. The whole surface is covered Fig. 573.—Portion of the Small Intestine, laid open to show the Valvule Conniventes. (Biiuton.) with minute processes called villi; these give the membrane a finely flocculent appearance, which has been compared to the pile of velvet. They are largest and most numerous in the duodenum and jejunum, and become gradually shorter, smaller, and fewer on the ileum. Besides the villi are certain large folds or valvu- lar flaps: these are the valvulse conniventes. They are permanent crescentic folds of mucous membrane set transversely to the long axis of the intestine. The majority extend from one-half to two-thirds of the distance round the lumen (fig. 573). The largest are more than two inches long, and about one-third of an inch wide. Some of the valvulse conniventes form complete circles and others spirals. These mucous folds do not exist at the beginning of the duodenum. They are very large just below the entrance of the bile-duct, and remain conspicuous until the middle of the jejunum is reached. They then become smaller, and gradually disappear at the lower part of the ileum. Scattered over the whole of the mucous membrane of the small intestine are numerous minute soft rounded bodies composed of retiform tissue. These are the so-called solitary glands. Certain patches, called Peyer's patches, are found in the lower ileum. They are oval, are from one-half to three inches in length, and about one inch in breadth, and are placed in the long axis of the bowel along a line most remote from the mesentery. They are made up of an aggregation of solitary glands.