MECKEL'S GANGLION. 755 The palpebral branches, the smallest of the terminal divisions of the nerve, pierce the origin of the levator labii superioris, and turn upwards around the lower border of the orbicularis palpebrarum. They are usually two in number, an external and an internal; they ramify in the integument of the lower eyelid. The terminal branches of the maxillary division communicate freely with the infraorbital branch of the facial, forming the infraorbital plexus. The plexus is placed under cover of the levator labii superioris. Meckel's Ganglion The spheno-palatine, nasal, or Meckel's ganglion is a small reddish-grey body which is situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa. It is triangular in form, flattened at the sides, and measures about one-fifth of an inch in its longest diameter. It is provided with three roots, a motor and a sympathetic, which reach it through the Vidian nerve, and a sensory root from the maxillary nerve. The latter root is in the form of two stout twigs, which are described as the spheno-palatine nerves. Roots.—The great superficial petrosal nerve is the motor root of the ganglion. It arises from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve within the aqueduct of Fallopius, and enters the cranial cavity by traversing the hiatus Falloj)ii. It then runs forwards and inwards in a groove in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and, after passing under the Gasserian ganglion, enters an oblique canal in the cartilage which occupies the foramen lacerum medium. Having reached the posterior opening of the Vidian canal, it unites with the great deep petrosal nerve to form the Vidian nerve. The great deep petrosal nerve is of a grey colour and is soft in consistence. It arises from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic close to the intracranial termi- nation of the carotid canal, traverses a canal in the cartilage, which occupies the foramen lacerum medium, and joins the Vidian nerve. The Vidian nerve runs forwards through the canal of the same name, accom- panied by the Vidian artery, and enters the spheno-maxillary fossa, where it ends in the posterior angle of Meckel's ganglion. While within the canal the Vidian nerve furnishes nasal twigs to the mucous membrane of the posterior part of the roof of the nose. They may be regarded as superior nasal nerves, which, after leaving Meckel's ganglion, have become associated with the Vidian nerve for a part of their course. Branches.—The branches of Meckel's ganglion are classified into (1) ascend- ing, to the orbit; (2) internal, to the mucous membrane of the nose; (3) de- scending, to the hard and soft palate; and (4) posterior, to the pharynx. (1) Ascending branches.—The ascending or orbital branches are two or three small twigs which enter the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and proceed within the periosteum to the inner wall of the orbit, where they pass through the posterior internal orbital canal and through the foramina in the suture behind that canal to be distributed to the mucous membrane which lines the posterior ethmoidal cells and the sphenoidal sinus. (2) Internal branches.—The internal branches are derived in part from the inner side of the ganglion, but are also largely made up of fibres which pass from the spheno-palatine nerves without traversing the ganglionic substance. They are disposed in two sets, the superior nasal and the septal. The superior nasal are six or seven small twigs which pass through the spheno- palatine foramen, and are distributed to the mucous membrane covering the posterior parts of the superior and middle turbinated bones. They also furnish twigs to the lining membrane of the posterior ethmoidal cells. The septal branches are two or three in number, and pass inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen. They cross the roof of the nasal fossa to reach the back part of the nasal septum, where the smaller twigs terminate. The largest nerve of the set, naso-palatine nerve, or nerve of Cotunnius, runs downwards and forwards in a groove in the vomer between the periosteum and the mucous membrane to the anterior palatine canal. Here it communicates with the nasal branch of the anterior superior dental nerve. The two naso-palatine nerves then pass through the foramina of Scarpa in the anterior palatine canal, the left nerve