PULMONARY—VENA CAVA SUPERIOR—INNOMLNATE 603 from the middle lobe of the right lung opening separately into the left auricle instead of joining as usual the upper of the two right pulmonary veins. The relations of the pulmonary veins to the pulmonary arteries and bronchi in the lungs are given with the Anatomy of the Lungs. At the root of the lung the pulmonary veins on both sides are arranged as an upper and a lower branch, an anterior descending branch of the bronchus passing between them. The upper vein on the right side is larger than the lower, and usually receives the vein from the middle lobe of the right lung. The lower vein on the left side is larger than the upper. Both the upper and lower veins lie in front of the pulmonary artery and on a lower plane, and run almost horizontally inwards and forwards to the left auricle. As they pierce the pericardium they receive a reflexion from the serous layer of that membrane. Their relations within the pericardium are given with the Anatomy of the Heart. At the root of the lung their relations to the surrounding structures are similar to those of the pulmonary artery (page 466). A separate description is not required. THE VENA CAVA SUPERIOR The superior or descending vena cava (fig. 381a) carries to the heart the blood returned from the head and neck and upper extremities through the right and left innominate veins, and from the walls of the thorax, either directly through the greater azygos vein, or indirectly through the innominate veins. It is formed (fig. 381a) by the confluence of the right and left innominate veins at the lower border of the first right costal cartilage close to the sternum, and, descending from this spot in a gentle curve with its convexity to the right and in a direction slightly backwards and outwards behind the sternal end of the first and second intercostal spaces and second costal cartilage, terminates in the right auricle of the heart on a level with the third right costal cartilage in front and the seventh thoracic vertebra behind. It measures about three inches in length (7-8 cm. ). A little more than its lower half (4 cm.) is contained within the pericardium, the serous layer of that membrane being reflected obliquely over it immediately below the spot where it is joined by the vena azygos major, and on a lower level than the reflexion of the pericardium on the aorta. The vena cava superior contains no valve. Relations.—In front (fig. 322), in addition to the first and second intercostal spaces and the second costal cartilage, it is covered by the remains of the thymus gland, the interthoracic fascia, and the pericardium, and is overlapped by the right pleura and lung. Behind (fig. 324) are the vena azygos major, the right bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, and the superior right pulmonary vein; and below, the fibrous layer of the pericardium. The serous layer is reflected over the front and sides of the vessel, but not over its posterior part. To the right side are the right lung and pleura, and the phrenic nerve. To the left side are the innominate artery and the first or ascending portion of the arch of the aorta. Tributaries.—In addition to the right and left innominate veins and the vena azygos major, it receives small veins from the mediastinum and pericardium. THE INNOMINATE OR BRACHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS The innominate veins return the blood from the head and neck and upper extremity. They are formed on each side by the confluence of the internal jugu- lar and subclavian veins behind the sternal end of the clavicle. They terminate at the lower border of the first costal cartilage on the right side by uniting to form the superior vena cava. The innominate veins have no valves. The right innominate vein (fig. 382) measures about one to one and a half inches in length (2-3 cm.), and descends from its origin behind the sternal end of the clavicle, very slightly forwards and inwards, superficial to, and to the right of, the