747 OCULO-MOTOR NERVES Meynert's commissure.—From the grey matter of the tuber cinereum fibres arise which cross the middle line behind Gudden's commissure and enter the crusta on the opposite side, from whence they are said to pass into the sub- thalamic body. The optic nerve passes forwards and outwards from the chiasma and enters the orbit through the optic foramen, accompanied by the ophthalmic artery, the vessel being external to and slightly below the nerve. It then slightly changes its direction and passes almost directly forwards to enter the back of the eyeball about three millimetres internal to and slightly below the posterior extremity of the optic axis; having gained the interior of the eyeball its fibres spread out in the retina, In its course through the orbit it is surrounded by the ciliary arteries and nerves; its upper surface is crossed obliquely by the ophthalmic artery and the nasal nerve, and the lenticular ganglion is in contact with its outer surface. Near the optic foramen it is surrounded by, and in close relation to, the four recti muscles; but further forwards it is separated from the muscles by an interval containing fat. The arteria centralis retina? pierces the under surface of the optic nerve near the middle point of the intraorbital part of its course and thence runs into the eyeball in the axis of the nerve. Very distinct prolongations of the cerebral membranes accompany the optic nerve. The dura mater, having entered the orbit through the optic foramen, delaminates into the orbital periosteum and the sheath of the optic nerve; the latter is tough and strong, and becomes continuous with the sclerotic of the eyeball. Within the dura mater is a narrow subdural space, then the arachnoid and a comparatively wide subarachnoid space, the inner boundary of which is formed by the pia mater, which invests the bundles of nerve-fibres. THIRD OR OCULO-MOTOR NERVE The third or oculo-motor nerve arises from a column of nerve-cells which is placed in the grey matter beneath the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius immediately dorsal to the posterior longitudinal bundle. This nucleus extends from the level of the posterior commissure to a point corresponding to the interval between the nates and testes, where it is imperfectly separated from the nucleus of the fourth nerve. The fibres arising from it pass downwards and forwards in a series of fas- i ciculi, which traverse the posterior longitudinal bundle, the red nucleus, and the inner part of the substantia nigra, and they emerge (superficial origin) in a row of about nine fasciculi from the oculo-motor groove at the inner side of the crus in the posterior fossa of the skull. The third nerve passes between the superior cerebellar and posterior cerebral arteries, traverses the aperture in the tentorium, enters the middle fossa of the skull, and then pierces the dura mater about midway between the anterior and [ posterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone in the centre of a little triangular space which has the following boundaries: externally, the free margin of the ten- torium cerebelli, posteriorly the attached margin of the tentorium, and internally a ridge of dura mater which extends from the posterior to the anterior clinoid process. It then enters the outer wall of the cavernous sinus and runs forwards to the sphenoidal fissure, occupying, at first, a position superior and internal to the fourth nerve. Behind the sphenoidal fissure it divides into a superior and an inferior division. These divisions, as they enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, pass between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, and are separated from one another by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. The superior division supplies the superior rectus. It enters that muscle on its ocular surface and sends a branch past its inner border to supply the levator palpebral superioris. The inferior division, considerably larger than the superior, divides into three branches; two of these, the nerves to the internal and inferior recti muscles, pierce the ocular surfaces of the muscles which they supply. The third branch, the nerve to the inferior oblique, is considerably longer than the other two. It runs forwards in the interval between the inferior and external rectus muscles, and pierces