976 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION series of arches "from the csecum, where the vasa intestini tenuis anastomose with the ileo-colica, the first branch of the superior mesenteric given to the large intestine. The blood-supply of the rectum is from the inferior mesenteric by the superior haemorrhoidal, from the internal iliac by the middle ha?morrhoidal, and from the internal pudic by the inferior haemorrhoidal. The vessels at the lower end of the rectum assume a longitudinal direction, communicating freely near the anus, and less freely above. The blood of the large intestine is turned into the portal vein by means of the superior mesenteric and inferior mesenteric veins. At the rectum a communication is set up between the systemic and portal system of veins, since some of the blood of that part of the intestine is returned into the internal iliac veins. In the lower end of the rectum the veins, like the arteries, are arranged longitudinally. This arrangement is called the haemorrhoidal plexus. The nerves and lymphatics of the large intestine differ in no important particular from those of the small intestine. THE LIVER The liver—the largest gland in the body—is situated in the upper and right part of the abdominal cavity (figs. 565, 578). It is of most irregular shape. It weighs between forty-five and sixty ounces. In females the liver is smaller than in males. It bears a different relation to the body weight at different ages. It forms one-fortieth part of the weight of the body in the adult male, and one- thirty-sixth in the adult female. In the foetus, at the fourth month, it is one-tenth the weight of the body, and in the infant at birth one-twentieth (fig. 578). It measures from right to left seven to ten inches, from before backwards three to six inches, and six to seven inches from above downwards in the thickest part of the right lobe. It is of a chocolate or reddish-brown color, is solid and firm to the touch, but friable. Its bulk is equal to ninety-five cubic inches. In the description which follows it will be noted that there are two borders— anterior and posterior; two extremities—right and left; three surfaces—superior, inferior, and posterior; five lobes—right, left, quadrate, caudate, and Spigelian; five fissures—umbilical, fissure for the ductus venosus, transverse, fissure of the vena cava, fissure for the gall bladder; five ligaments—coronary, suspensory or falciform, round, right and left lateral. The liver is seen to be divided by means of a fold of peritoneum—the suspen- sory ligament—into two very distinct parts, the right and left lobes (figs. 578, 579). The anterior border of the liver is well defined, appearing as a sharp thin edge. To the left of the middle point at the beginning of the longitudinal fissure is the interlobar notch, marking the division between the right and left lobes. Further to the right is a notch for the gall bladder. The posterior border is thick, rounded, and fixed, is slightly marked by the spinal column, and notched for the vena cava. The right extremity is thick, and rounded like the posterior border. The left extremity is thin and flat like the anterior border. The surfaces are described as they are seen in a liver which has been hardened in situ. The superior surface of the liver is convex, and moulded to the surface of the diaphragm. It is smooth, and covered by peritoneum. It is divided by the sus- pensory ligament, which runs from before backwards, into two parts: the right and left lobes, the right division being much the larger (fig. 579). Upon this surface of the left lobe is a shallow depression for the heart. The surface of the left lobe is much less convex than that of the right. A considerable portion of this surface faces anteriorly, and some writers divide it into anterior and upper surfaces.