PHRENIC AND LUMBAR :>:.:; The parietal branches are distributed to the abdominal walls. They are the right and left phrenics, and the four right and left lumbars. The visceral branches supply the viscera. Three of these are given off singly from the front of the aorta, namely, the cceliac axis, the superior mesenteric and "the inferior mesenteric; and three are given off in pairs, namely, the two suprarenals, the two renals, and the two spermatics. The terminal branches are the middle sacral and the right and left common iliac arteries. A. The Parietal Branches of the Abdominal Aorta 1. THE PHRENIC ARTERIES The right and left phrenic arteries—sometimes called the inferior phrenic to distinguish them from the diaphragmatic branches of the internal mammary and thoracic aorta—usually arise from the aorta as it passes between the crura of the diaphragm either as a common trunk or as separate vessels. At times they come off as a common trunk from the cceliac axis; or either the right or left vessel may come from this artery, or from other of the upper branches of the abdominal aorta. The right phrenic passes (fig. 363) over the right crus of the diaphragm behind the vena cava, and then upwards and to the right between the central and right leaflets of the central tendon of the muscle, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The former courses forwards and inwards, and anastomoses with the anterior branch of the left phrenic, with the musculo-phrenic branches of the internal mammary, and with the superior phrenic arteries; the latter passes outwards and backwards towards the ribs, and anastomoses with the intercostal arteries. Besides the two terminal branches and branches for the supply of the diaphragm itself, the right phrenic gives off the following:—(1) Right superior suprarenal, to the right suprarenal capsule; (2) caval, to the vena cava; (3) bepatic, to the liver; and (4) pericardiac, to the pericardium. The left phrenic crosses the left crus of the diaphragm behind the oesophagus, and then runs between the left and central leaflets of the tendon, dividing like the right into an anterior and a posterior branch. The former runs forwards and inwards, and anastomoses with the anterior branch of the right phrenic, the left musculo-phrenic from the internal mammary, and the superior phrenic artery. The latter courses outwards and backwards towards the ribs, and anastomoses with the intercostal arteries. In addition to the terminal branches, and branches to the diaphragm itself, the left phrenic gives off:—(1) Oesophageal branches to the oesophagus, where they anastomose with the other oesophageal branches; (2) left superior suprarenal, to the left suprarenal body; (3) splenic, to the spleen; and (4) pericardiac, which perforate the diaphragm and anastomose with the other pericardiac arteries. The variations in the origin of the phrenic arteries are very numerous. The chief have been alluded to in the general description of the vessels. 2. THE LUMBAR ARTERIES The lumbar arteries (figs. 360, 363), usually eight in number, four on each side, come off in pairs from the posterior aspect of the abdominal aorta, opposite the bodies of the four upper lumbar vertebra?. A fifth pair of lumbar arteries, generally of small size, are frequently given off from the middle sacral opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra. The lumbar arteries, which are rather longer on the right than on the left side, in consequence of the aorta lying a little to the left of the median line, wind more or less transversely outwards round the bodies of the ver- tebra? to the interval between the transverse processes, where they give off a dorsal branch, and then, coursing forwards between the abdominal muscles, terminate by