MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE 795 •supply the palmaris brevis muscle, several twigs, which are distributed to the skin severing the hypothenar eminence, and then it divides into two branches, an inner md an outer. The inner branch is distributed to the inner side of the little finger in its volar aspect. The outer branch communicates with the median nerve, and then divides to supply the contiguous margins of the ring and little fingers. The distribution of these branches to the fingers resembles that of the digital branches if the median nerve, which has been already described. (e) The deep branch of the ulnar nerve accompanies the deep branch of the ulnar artery into the interval between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti 'muscles, and then passes through the fibres of the opponens minimi digiti to reach the deep surface of the flexor tendons. It supplies the abductor, flexor brevis, and opponens minimi digiti, the two inner lumbricales, all the interossei, the adductors, and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis.. Occasionally it also gives a twig to the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis. (7) The musculo-spiral nerve is the largest branch of the brachial plexus. It arises from the posterior cord, and contains fibres derived from the fifth, sixth, jseventh, and eighth cervical nerves. It is placed at first behind the third stage of the axillary artery; lower down it has a similar relation to the upper part of the -brachial artery. It soon leaves the latter vessel and accompanies the superior pro- ifunda artery into the interval between the inner and outer heads of the triceps. [Having followed the spiral groove around the humerus, it pierces the external linter-muscular septum and runs downwards in the interval between the supinator longus (brachio-radialis) and the brachialis anticus muscles. A little above the bend of the elbow it terminates by dividing into the radial and the posterior inter- osseous nerves. Branches.—The musculo-spiral nerve gives off three cutaneous branches, one internal and two external, and supplies the following muscles: triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus in part, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. (a) The internal cutaneous branch arises within the axilla, usually in common with the branch to the long head of the triceps. It crosses the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle and passes behind the intercosto-humeral nerve to the back of the arm, supplying a strip of integument in the middle of the dorsal surface extending nearly down to the elbow, and placed between the areas of distribution of the circumflex and intercosto-humeral nerves. (b) The external cutaneous branches arc distinguished as upper and lower. The upper branch, much the smaller, pierces the deep fascia in the line of the external intermuscular septum; it accompanies the lower part of the cephalic vein and supplies the skin over the lower half of the outer and anterior aspect of the ann. The lower branch is of considerable size. It pierces the deep fascia a little below the upper branch, runs behind the external condyle, and supplies the skin of the middle of the back of the forearm as far as the wrist, anastomosing with the internal cutaneous and musculocutaneous nerves. (c) Muscular Branches.—Muscular branches are given off in the axilla to the long and internal heads of the triceps; one of the latter is a long filament which accompanies the ulnar nerve and is known as the ulnar collateral. At the back of the humerus muscular branches are given to the outer and inner heads of the tri- ceps and to the anconeus; the latter descends in the substance of the_ inner head of the triceps accompanied by a branch of the superior profunda artery. At the outer side of the humerus branches are supplied to the supinator longus, the extensor carpi radialis longior, and to a section of the brachialis anticus; from one of these an articular twig is given off to the elbow-joint. (cZ) The posterior interosseous nerve passes downwards in the interval between the brachialis anticus and the extensor carpi radialis longior, and, having given off branches to supply the extensor carpi radialis brevior and supinator brevis, it is crossed by the radial recurrent artery; then it runs downwards and backwards through the substance of the supinator brevis, and enters the cellular interval between the superficial and deep layers of muscles at the back of the fore- arm; here it comes into relation with the posterior interosseous artery, which it accompanies across the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. At the lower border of the latter muscle it gives off a branch to the extensor secundii internodii pollicis,