MESIAL AND TENTORIAL SURFACES OF THE HEMISPHERE 689 The pars parieto-falciformis is usually termed pars temporo-parietalis ; a study of the devel- opment of this part of the island has shown, however, that it is connected with the falciform and not with the temporal lobe. (Cunningham.) Dissection.—The student is recommended to defer the study of the convolutions on the mesial and tentorial surfaces of the hemisphere until the dissection of the corpus callosum is completed, and to proceed as follows. He should make a horizontal section through the uppermost part of the cerebral hemispheres; this will display the central core of white matter (centrum ovale minus) surrounded by a convoluted border of grey matter. Within the white matter a number of minute vessels will be seen which appear as bleeding points in a fresh brain (t he puncta vascu- losa vel cruenta). He may then remove successive thin sections until he reaches the level of the corpus callosum, the fibres of which, spreading out into the hemisphere, form an extensive white layer called the centrum ovale majus. A far more instructive dissection, however, can be made by cautiously tearing the brain substance in a direction from within outwards until the callosal fissure is reached. By the latter method the following points can be made out in an ordinary well-hardened brain : (1) The white fibres entering each convolution spreading out so as to end perpendicularly to the surface. (2) The fibres from the body of the corpus callosum passing at first horizontally outwards into the hemisphere and then diverging, some sweeping upwards to the parietal and frontal lobes, others bending downwards into the temporal lobe aud following the long axis of that lobe. At the point where they bend downwards they readily break, as they are here intersected by fibres passing upwards from the inner capsule. (3) The fibres from the anterior and posterior extremities of the corpus callosum passing in a curved manner into the frontal and occipital lobes respectively, forming the forceps minor and the forceps major. (4) A set of fibres, known as the cingulum, which run within the gyrus fornicatus, forming a sagittally- directed arch. The dissector should next study the corpus callosum and the convolutions on the inner face of the hemisphere. The convolutions on the tentorial surface may be learned from a mounted specimen, or better still from a cast of a cerebral hemisphere, and the actual convolu- tions can be examined when the hemispheres are cut away from the mesencephalon at a later stage. Mesial and tentorial surfaces of the hemisphere.—The mesial surface of the hemisphere is marked off from both the convex supero-external and the tentorial surface by the margin of the great longitudinal fissure. This margin follows a curved course as a well-defined border from the posterior extremity of the gyrus rectus as far as the occipital pole of the cerebrum. From this point it passes for- wards and pursues a slightly curved course to the splenium of the corpus callosum immediately beneath which it ends. The latter part is termed by Schwalbe the internal occipital border ; it is only seen in carefully-hardened brains, and appears as a rounded margin crossing the lobulus lingualis, and in front of this marking the gyrus fornicatus immediately below its isthmus (fig. 411). The tentorial surface is marked off from the supero-external surface by a well-defined border which extends from the occipital pole to the extremity of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, forming a slight curve with the convexity upwards. The fissural system of the mesial and tentorial surfaces is of considerable importance and interest, as all the complete fissures of the cerebrum appear on these surfaces. These fissures are, as already mentioned, the internal parieto-occipital, the calcarine, the dentate, and the collateral. The calloso-marginal, a constant and important incomplete fissure, is also to be seen on the mesial surface. The calloso-marginal fissure commences below the genu of the corpus callosum and pursues a curved course parallel to the corpus callosum until it reaches a point a short distance behind the upper extremity of the fissure of Rolando. It then bends upwards and extends on to the convex surface for a short distance, where it indents the upper end of the ascending parietal convolution. Two branches which pass from this fissure deserve special mention as, although not constantly present, they form useful lines of demarcation. One of these, the sulcus paracentralis, passes upwards between the paracentral and the marginal convolutions. Another, the post-limbic or sulcus subparietalis, passes backwards from the bend of the main fissure and separates the precuneus from the gyrus fornicatus. The parieto-occipital fissure commences at the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus, and passes at first backwards and upwards, and then almost vertically upwards to reach the margin of the hemisphere, where it bends outwards and ends as the external parieto-occipital fissure. The calcarine fissure commences by a bifid extremity near the occipital pole, and passes horizontally forwards with a slightly curved course to become confluent with the parieto-occipital fissure. 44