THE RENAL DUCTS 1015 the untrustworthy indications afforded by admeasurement after the removal of the structure from the body. Course and relations.—The tubes lie about three inches apart at their com- mencement, but this distance gradually lessens to about two inches as they descend towards the sacro-iliac joint. In the true pelvis they at first diverge, but finally on pearing the base of the bladder run forwards and inwards to pierce the wall of the viscus, and at their termination are separated by a distance of about an inch (25 mm.). The course of each tube may be conveniently divided into three stages, abdominal, pelvic, and vesical. The abdominal portion, running downwards and slightly inwards, is in relation, posteriorly, with the psoas and its fascia, and the genito-crural nerve, and with the common iliac artery near its bifurcation. Ante- riorly, it is covered by peritoneum and intestines, and is crossed by the colic and spermatic vessels. Internally, it is opposed on the right side to the inferior vena cava, on the left to the aorta; the vein being almost in contact with the right ureter, while the artery is separated from the left tube by an interval that gradually dimin- ishes from one inch above to half an inch opposite the bifurcation of the vessel. In the female the utero-ovarian veins lie on its inner side. The pelvic portion runs in front of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, then upon the obturator interims and its fascia behind and below the psoas, and on the outer side of the pelvic coils of intestine (sigmoid colon on left side, small intestine on right), finally leaving the pelvic wall to join the bladder. In this position, in the male it is crossed superiorly and internally by the vas deferens, and lies under cover of the free extremity of the vesicula seminalis, separated from its fellow by a distance of an inch and a half (37 mm.). In the female it runs parallel with, and four to six lines (8 to 12 mm.) from, the cervix uteri, behind the uterine artery, through the uterine plexus of veins, and beneath the root of the broad ligament; finally crossing the upper third of the vagina to reach the vesico-vaginal interspace and pierce the bladder opposite the middle of the vagina. A calculus in the lower end of the tube might be detected by a vaginal examination. The vesical portion, about half an inch (12 mm.) in length, runs obliquely downwards and inwards through the coats of the bladder, and opens on to the mucous surface at a distance of about three-quarters of an inch to an inch (18 to 25 mm.) from its fellow, and from the internal urinary meatus. Structure.—The wall of the ureter is about a twenty-fifth of an inch (1 mm.) in thickness, and consists of a mucous membrane, a muscular coat, and an external connective tissue investment. The mucous membrane is longitudinally plicated, and is lined with a multiple layer of transitional epithelium, continuous with that Fig. 616.—Upper Portion of Duct. (After Henle.) INFERIOR PELVIS