QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR FEMORIS 365 this arrangement is to allow of the free action of the long head of the biceps which crosses over this part of the semi-membranosus. Otherwise the swelling of the fibres of- the biceps during contraction would have pressed upon and inter- fered with the action of the semi-membranosus, which usually contracts at the same time. Nerve-supply.—From the first, second, and third nerves of the sacral plexus by the great sciatic nerve which sends branches to the deep surface of the muscle about the middle of the thigh. Action.—To strongly extend the hip and to flex the knee. When the knee is flexed it will also assist in the internal rotation of the leg, but with less mechanical advantage than the semi-tendinosus and gracilis, as its line of action is so near to the axis of movement. Like most penniform muscles, the semi-membranosus is very powerful, as is shown by the thickness of its tendons. This strength is necessitated by the fact that its line of action is so much nearer to the axis of movement both in flexion and rotation inwards of the knee. Like the other muscles which arise from tin; tuber ischii, it will co-operate powerfully in raising the body from the stooping position, this prominence of bone forming the short arm of the lever by which the trunk is raised. This group of muscles affords a good example of the peculiar action obtained by long muscles passing over two joints. If all three muscles were to remain passive, like so many ligaments, it is obvious that on flexion of the hip- joint by means of the ilio-psoas and other muscles, the hamstrings would ensure the simultaneous flexion of the knee; or, again, on extension of the knee by the action of the powerful muscles of the front of the thigh, the hamstrings would produce a corresponding extension of the hip-joint. Seeing, however, that these hamstrings are not passive, but that they contract powerfully at the same time in many of these movements, it follows that in flexion of the hip in such movements as those of running, the knee is at the same time flexed with increased rapidity; and again, when the knees are extended by the powerful contraction of the quadriceps muscle, the simultaneous action of the hamstring muscles will produce a still more rapid elevation of the trunk. Relations of the semi-membranosus.—Behind, the gluteus maxinrus, biceps, and semi-tendinosus; in front, the adductor magnus, posterior ligament of knee, and the popliteus. Along its outer border lies the great sciatic nerve, and just before its insertion the inner head of the gastrocnemius hooks round this border, being separated from it by a bursa which communicates with the knee-joint. There is also usually a small bursa between its tendon and the back of the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Variations.—The senii-nienibranosus lias occasionally been deficient, or only represented by a thin musculo-tendinous band. It has also been found double. ANTERIOR, MUSCLES OF THE THIGH Tins group consists of the sartorius and the quadriceps extensor femoris. 1. SARTORIUS This muscle has already been described (see page 350). 2. QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR FEMORIS The quadriceps extensor femoris (figs. 287 and 289), as its name implies, con- sists of four heads. Of these, one, the rectus, arises from the innominate bone; and the three others, the vastus extemus, vastus interims, and crureus, from the femur; while the common tendon is inserted into the upper border and sides of the patella.