926 THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION sides of the pericardial sac; this is the great sinus of the pericardium. The infe- rior vena cava receives a very imperfect covering. The vestigial fold of the pericardium is a doubling of the serous layer which passes between the left pulmonary artery above and left superior pulmonary vein below. It contains, besides some fatty and areolar tissue, the shrunken remains of the left superior vena cava. It is connected above with the left superior intercostal vein, and below with the left auricle and oblique vein of Marshall,—these veins with the coronary sinus having originally formed portions of the left upper cava. Relations.—In front are found the thymus gland or its remains, areolar tissue, the sterno-pericardiac ligaments, the left triangularis sterni muscle, the internal mammary vessels, the anterior margins of the pleural sacs and lungs, and the ster- num. Laterally, it is overlapped by the lungs with their pleural sacs, and it is in relation with the phrenic nerves and their accompanying vessels. Posteriorly, it is in relation with the oesophagus, and pneumogastric nerves, the descending aorta, the thoracic duct, and vena azygos major. On opening the pericardium the following structures may be observed: the greater part of the right and a portion of the left ventricle with the interventric- ular sulcus, the right auricle and right auricular appendix (the latter overlap- ping the root of the aorta), the auriculo-ventricular sulcus; the first portion of the aorta with the superior vena cava on its right side, and the pulmonary artery at first overlying and then passing to its left side, with the tip of the left auricular appendix. If the heart be raised upwards and to the right, its posterior surface is seen to consist of the greater part of the left ventricle, and the remaining por- tion of the right, the interventricular sulcus dividing the two. Lying transversely above the ventricle in the auriculo-ventricular groove is the coronary sinus, receiving some of the cardiac veins, and also the oblique vein of Marshall from the back of the left auricle, the roots of the pulmonary veins, and the very small portion of the inferior cava above the diaphragm, may also be noticed. The two ventricles rest in about equal proportions on the central tendon of the diaphragm. The main branches of the coronary arteries of the heart occupy the grooves. Vessels.—The arteries of the pericardium are derived from the pericardiac, oesophageal, and bronchial branches of the thoracic aorta and from the internal mammary and phrenic arteries. THE HEART The heart—enclosed in the pericardium—occupies the greater part of the middle mediastinal space. It is a somewhat flattened, cone-shaped, hollow, muscular organ. Position.—In the adult the heart lies obliquely behind the lower two-thirds of the sternum, projecting considerably to its left side. Its base is directed slightly upwards and backwards, and to the right; its apex downwards and forwards, and to the left. The base corresponds to the sixth, seventh, and eighth thoracic vertebras; and the apex to the chest wall on the left side, between the fifth and sixth rib cartilages. It may be mapped out on the chest wall in the following manner: a line drawn across the sternum about the level of the lower borders of the second costal carti- lages, passing half an inch to the right and one inch to the left of the sternum, will indicate the position of its base, from which the great vessels arise. The apex, as before observed, strikes the chest wall between the fifth and sixth rib cartilages on the left side, at a spot about a couple of inches (50 mm.) below the nipple, and one inch (25 mm.) to its sternal side, or three and a quarter inches (81 mm.) from the middle line of the sternum, in the fifth interspace. The lower border is formed by the right ventricle and rests on the central tendon of the diaphragm. It is defined by a line curving downwards, commencing at the apex, and crossing close to the sterno-xiphoid articulation and terminating at the right edge of the sternum near its junction with the sixth cartilage. The lateral borders may be completed by drawing curved lines upwards from