704 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM velum interpositum, and reflecting it backwards. This must be done cautiously, as the pines! body is closely enfolded in the posterior part of the under layer of that membrane, and an attempt should be made to retain it in its proper place. The dissector should thoroughly examine the cavity and floor of the third ventricle and the free surfaces of the optic thalami, but he is recommended to dissect the deep surfaces of the latter bodies in connection with the mesencephalon. The Thalamencephalon The third ventricle is a narrow cavity whose lateral walls are so closely- approximated that in coronal sections it appears as a vertical slit. It communi- cates in front with the lateral ventricles by the foramina of Monro. Behind, it is continuous with the fourth ventricle through a narrow passage, the aqueduct of Sylvius. The opening into the aqueduct is bounded above by a transverse white bundle of fibres, the posterior commissure ; and, above this, a prolongation of the Fig. 421.—Coronal Section through the Anterior Part of the Third Ventricle. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) CORPUS CALLOSUM SEPTUM LUCID CM PITUITARY BODY ventricular cavity extends into the stalk of the pineal body, in which it ends blindly. The third ventricle is covered by the corpus callosum, the fornix, and the velum interpositum; its true roof, however, is formed by the epithelium lining the under surface of the last-named structure. The central part of its cavity is crossed transversely by the middle or grey commissure. It is bounded, laterally by the optic thalami, and in front by the anterior pillars of the fornix and by the anterior commissure. It is limited behind by the commencement of the aqueduct of Sylvius, by the posterior commissure, and by the reflexion of epithelium from the upper surface of the pineal body on to the under surface, of the velum interpositum. In the anterior part of the ventricle the floor is marked off from the lateral walls by the anterior pillars of the fornix, which, after forming part of the anterior boundary, sweep backwards with an inclination downwards: in this situation they are covered by a thin layer of the central grey substance of the ventricle, and project as slight ridges. The third ventricle is relatively shallow for about the posterior third of its extent, but in its anterior two-thirds it presents a deep recess which is divided into an anterior and a posterior part by a prominent ridge. This