107 THE STERNUM cartilaginous bars which in the early embryo represent the ribs. At first these bars fuse together laterally, and for some time the sternum is represented by two strips of cartilage separated by a median fissure. Very early this gap is bridged over anteriorly. Nine costal cartilages are in relation with the sternum at this stage. Gradually the lateral strips unite with each other to form the mesosternum. The ninth costal cartilage divides: one part remains attached to the sternum and becomes the xiphoid, whilst the end still attached to the rib acquires a new attach- ment to the eighth cartilage. The ends, still adherent to the sternum, may remain separate and give rise to a bifid metasternum (xiphoid); much more frequently they unite, leaving a small foramen. The eighth cartilage may retain its sternal attachment permanently. At first the sternum and costal cartilages are continuous; a joint soon forms between the pre-sternum and mesosternum. Gradually joints arise between the costal cartilages and the sternum (except in the case of the first). The division of the mesosternum into sternebrse is a still later process, and arises during the process of ossification. Ossification.—The transformation of the sternum into bone is a slow and irregular process. The pre-sternum (manubrium) has a mesial nucleus about the sixth month of intra-uterine life; later, several smaller accessory centres may Fig. 115.—Postkeioe Subface of the Manubeium (Pee-steenum), with Steenal Ends of Clavicle and the Fiest Costal Caetilage. Sterno-hyoid Sterno-thyroid appear. The mesosternum usually ossifies from seven centres. The second sterne- bra ossifies from a single median nucleus about the eighth month. Below this, three pairs of ossific nuclei appear, and they may remain long separate. Of these, two pairs for the third and fourth sternebrse are visible at birth. The pair for the fifth sternebra make their appearance towards the end of the first year. The various lateral centres unite in pairs, and at the sixth year the sternum consists of six sternebrse, the lowest (metasternum) being cartilaginous. Gradually the four pieces representing the mesosternum fuse with one another, and at twenty-five they form a single piece, but exhibit, even in advanced life, traces of their original separation. The metasternum is always imperfectly ossified, and does not ankylose with the mesosternum till after middle life. The pre-sternum and mesosternum rarely fuse. The dates given above for the various nuclei are merely approximate, for they are extremely variable, not only in appearing, but in their number. The same remark applies also to the age at which the various segments ankylose; hence the sternum affords very uncertain data as to age. Abnormalities of the sternum.—The mode of development of the sternum as described above is of importance in connection with some deviations to which it is occasionally subject. At an early period it consists of two lateral halves; in some rare instances these have failed to unite, and thus give rise to the anomaly of a