THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 692 superior semicircular canal. The third impression (incisura temporalis) is situated near the vallecula Sylvii, about one-third of an inch external to the tentorial groove. The LIMBIC LOBE lies on the mesial and tentorial surfaces of the cerebrum. It is bounded externally by the calloso-marginal sulcus, the subparietal or post-limbic sulcus, the stem of the calcarine fissure, and the collateral fissure. It consists of an outer part formed by the callosal convolution, the isthmus and the uncinate gyrus, and an inner part in which are included the fornix, the septum lucidum, the striee longitudinales mediales and laterales, and the fascia dentata, all of which will be subsequently described. the olfactory lobe.—The olfactory lobe attains a considerable size in some of the lower mammals, and in them it may contain a prolongation of the lateral ventricle in its interior; in seals it is small, in cetacea it is absent, and in monkeys and men it is rudimentary. Its anterior part is developed as an outgrowth of the cerebral vesicle, but the cavity, which is present at first, soon disappears in man, though its position is indicated, even in the adult, by the remains of the ependyma which lined it. The olfactory lobe is divided into two lobules—the anterior and the posterior. The constituent parts of the anterior olfactory lobule are the bulb, the tract, the trigonum olfactorium, and the olfactory area of Broca. It is separated from the posterior olfactory area by a curved fissure, fissura prima, which runs outwards from the great longitudinal fissure in front of the anterior perforated space. The olfactory bulb is an ovoid mass of gray and white matter a little more than a third of an inch long (1 cm.) and about a sixth of an inch (4 mm.) wide. It rests below on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and is lodged above in the olfactory sulcus on the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. About twenty olfactory nerves spring from its lower surface and pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate. The olfactory tract is a triangular band of white matter which extends backwards from the posterior extremity of the bull). It is about three-quarters of an inch long (2 cm.) and one-tenth of an inch broad (2.5 mm.). Its apex is embedded in the olfactory sulcus and its lower surface rests on the presphenoid bone (jugum sphenoidale). Posteriorly it terminates in two roots, the mesial and lateral, which enclose the trigonum olfactorium. The lateral root passes outwards and backwards across the anterior perforated space to the anterior end of the uncinate gyrus; the mesial root curves inwards behind Broca's olfactory area and becomes continuous with the lower end of the callosal gyrus. The anterior olfac- tory lobule is, therefore, intimately connected with the anterior part of the limbic lobe, the two together forming the rhinencephalon, or racquet-shaped lobe of Broca. The trigonum olfactorium is a small triangular area of gray matter enclosed between the two roots of the olfactory tract and bounded behind by the fissura prima. Broca's olfactory area is a small part of the posterior end of the gyrus rectus separated off from the remainder by a small oblique sulcus called the fissura serotina and bounded posteriorly and externally by the mesial root of the olfactory tract. The posterior olfactory lobule is that portion of the gray cortex which forms the anterior perforated space. It is bounded internally by the peduncle of the corpus callosum, anteriorly by the fissura prima which separates it from the anterior olfactory lobule, and it extends externally into the vallecula Sylvii, being crossed by the lateral root of the olfactory tract. The Corpus Callosum is a great white transverse commissure which unites the cerebral hemispheres. Its form can be well studied in a mesial section of the brain (fig. 412), in which it appears as a longitudinal arch with rounded anterior and posterior extremities. The posterior extremity is called the splenium ; it is rounded off behind and is formed by the corpus callosum doubling on itself, so that a small portion is folded forwards under, and in close opposition to, the larger part (fig. 413). The anterior extremity or genu is less sharply bent than the poste- rior end. It is continued downwards and backwards into a portion which appears