THE PANCREAS 987 gland to the spleen; it is situated transversely across the vertebral column with the large vessels intervening. The anterior surface is in contact with the stomach, which organ gives a con- cavity to the surface (fig. 590). This surface is covered by peritoneum derived from the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. The posterior surface is in contact with the crura of the diaphragm, the aorta, and superior mesenteric vessels, which structures are interposed between it and the spine (figs. 571, 586). The splenic artery and vein run lengthways above the back of the upper border of the posterior surface. To the left, the posterior surface is in contact with the left kidney and suprarenal capsule. The upper border in the middle line abuts against the cceliac axis. The inferior surface is narrow, and lies over the fourth part of the duodenum and beginning of the jejunum. The transverse meso-colon is continued from the front of the head along the border separating this surface from the anterior surface. The splenic end of the transverse colon lies under the left extremity of this surface. From the under surface of the transverse meso-colon a layer of peritoneum passes to the central part of the inferior surface. The posterior surface is devoid of peritoneum. The tail of the pancreas is the name given to the left extremity of the organ; it touches the lower part of the inner surface of the spleen. Fig. 587.—The Pancreas and its Duct. duct of pancreas duct of pancreas common bile duct The duct of the pancreas, or the Canal of Wirsung, white in appearance, runs from nearly the extreme left of the gland, concealed by the proper substance of the pancreas, nearer its posterior surface than the anterior, between the upper and lower borders, to empty into the lower and inner part of the second portion of the duo- denum with the common bile duct. It runs sinuously, receiving its branches as it goes, which enter nearly at right angles. These branches are straight. Its diam- eter near its termination is one-tenth of an inch. The pancreatic duct often does not join the common bile duct until its termination, running side by side with'it through the walls of the intestine. Occasionally the pancreatic duct opens by itself into the duodenum. Blood-supply.—The pancreas receives blood from the splenic artery through its pancreatic branches, and from the superior mesenteric and hepatic by the infe- rior and superior pancreatico-duodenal arteries, which form a loop running round, below, and to the right of its head. The blood is returned into the portal vein by means of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics terminate in two glands which lie on the superior mesenteric artery. Nerves.—These are branches of the solar plexus which accompany the arteries entering the gland.