404 THE MUSCLES Variations.—The rectus may be inserted as high as the fourth or even the third rib. A lateral rectus is sometimes found between the external and internal oblique muscles, extending from the tenth rib to the iliac crest. Transverse and Oblique Muscles This group consists of three muscles—the obliquus externus, the obliquus inter- nus, and the transversalis—which lie in successive strata in the abdominal wall. 1. OBLIQUUS EXTERNUS The obliquus externus abdominis—named from its position and direction— is a broad curved sheet, partly muscle and partly aponeurosis, of an irregularly quadrilateral shape. Origin.—The outer surface of the eight lower ribs about their middle by a series of nearly horizontal lines which, after crossing each rib obliquely downwards and backwards, extend for a short distance along their lower borders. Insertion.—(1) By a strong aponeurosis along the whole of the linea alba; (2) the front of the os pubis close to the symphysis; (3) the spine of the pubes and the adjacent part of the ilio-pectineal line; (4) the deep fascia of the thigh in a thickened band which stretches from the spine of the pubes to the anterior superior spine of the ilium: (5) the anterior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium. Structure.—At their origin the muscular fibres form a series of teeth which interdigitate in the upper part of the muscle with the serratus magnus, and in the lower with the latissimus dorsi. The general direction of the origin is an oblique line someAvhat curved upon itself so as be convex upwards and backwards. Above and below, the origin is nearer to the anterior extremities of the ribs. From this origin the fleshy fibres pass downwards and forwards, and at the same time diverge fanwise, at first lying upon the ribs and their cartilages, and then without any bony support as part of the muscular wall of the abdomen. The change from fleshy to tendinous fibres takes place at some distance from the outer border of the rectus muscle, in such a way that the fleshy mass terminates rather abruptly in a right angle situated in the iliac region of the abdomen. This angle is formed in front by a vertical line, which passes downwards from the tip of the ninth costal carti- lage; and below by a horizontal line passing forwards from a point upon the crest of the ilium an inch or two (2-5 to 5 cm.) behind the anterior superior spine. This abrupt limitation of the muscular fibres gives rise to a projection which is distinctly visible through the skin in a muscular subject. The aponeurosis thus formed blends in nearly the whole of its extent with that of the subjacent muscle, the obliquus internus, and in the middle line it unites at the linea alba with that of the opposite side. Above, it extends upwards as high as the insertion of the rectus muscle, of which it forms part of the sheath, and in this locality it gives origin to a part of the pectoralis major. The insertion into the pubic bone of the same side is interrupted by an interval corresponding to the crest of the pubes, and forms the external abdominal ring. From the spine of the pubes to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the aponeurosis forms a thickened band slightly convex downwards, which blends with the fascia lata, and is called Poupart's ligament. The rest of the insertion into the outer lip of the crest of the ilium is by short tendinous fibres. The insertion of the lower edge of the aponeurosis is also carried backwards and outwards from the spine of the pubes along the inner part of the ilio-pectineal line by a horizontal triangle of fascia called Gimbernat's ligament. This ligament is attached to the lower end of Poupart's ligament in front, and it presents a concave surface upwards, upon which lie the structures which emerge through the external abdominal ring. The fibres of Gimbernat's ligament are continued upwards and inwards beyond the ilio-pectineal line to the front of the rectus and the linea alba by a layer called the triangular fascia, which lies behind the inguinal canal and the external abdominal ring.