595 EXTERNAL PLANTAR the interosseous space in which they run. The first comes of? from the outermost part of the plantar arch, and courses forwards along the outer side of the little toe (figs. 378, 379, 381), over the fifth metatarsal bone and the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles. The second, third, and fourth digitals run forwards in the centre of the interosseous spaces on the therein contained interosseous muscles, under cover of the contiguous lumbrical, the short and long flexor tendons, and the transversalis pedis muscle. Near the cleft of the toes they become superficial, and bifurcate for the supply of the contiguous sides of the toes: the second supplying the inner side of the fifth and the outer side of the fourth toe; the third the inner side of the fourth and the outer side of the third toe; and the fourth the inner side of the third and the outer side of the second toe. The supply Fig. 379.—Right Plantar Arteries (Deep). (From a dissection in the Hunterian Museum.) Infernal calcanean branch of posterior tibial Posterior tibial artery Abductor hallueis, cut Internal plantar artery Inner head of flexor accessorius Flexor longus hallueis External plan tar artery Adductor hallueis Flexor brevis hallueis Princeps hallueis artery Flexor tendons, cut short Collateral digital branch of princeps hallueis to inner side of great toe Cutaneous and anastomotic branches of external plantar Outer head of flexor aeeessoriua Abnormal muscular Blip Muscular branch Cutaneous branch Collateral digital artery to outer side of little toe Second digital artery Third digital artery Fourth digital artery of the inner side of the second and both sides of the great toe is derived from the dorsalis pedis through its communicating branch to the plantar arch. The digital arteries, immediately before they bifurcate, send upwards on to the dorsum of the foot a communicating branch (the anterior perforating artery) to the corresponding dorsal interosseous arteries. On the side of the toes the digital arteries—here some- times called the collateral digital arteries—furnish numerous small branches to the integuments and the flexor tendons and their sheaths. They anastomose by many small twigs with the dorsal interosseous arteries, which also run along the sides of the toes, but more towards the dorsal aspect. Immediately above each phalangeal joint the collateral digital vessels communicate by cross branches, forming a rete for the supply of the articular end of the phalanges and the con-