OBTURATOR AND EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVES 805 rnent by piercing the fascia lata. It is distributed to the skin covering the upper and central part of the anterior aspect of the thigh. (4) The obturator nerve arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, and in the majority of cases receives an additional root from the second. It passes between the psoas muscle and the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra. It then runs downwards and forwards outside the internal iliac vessels and the ureter, and below the external iliac vessels to reach the upper margin of the thyroid foramen. In this part of its course it runs parallel to and a little below the brim of the pelvis, and is placed in the extra-peritoneal fat between the peritoneum and the parietal pelvic fascia. It is accompanied by the obturator vessels which are placed below it. The nerve then passes through the deficiency in the obturator membrane, and divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. (a) The anterior branch passes across the upper border of the obturator externus, and is directed downwards and inwards between the pectineus and adductor brevis, and divides into the following branches:—(i) A twig for the hip- joint; (ii) a branch for the adductor longus; (iii) a branch to supply the adductor brevis; (iv) a branch for the gracilis; (v) in rare cases, a twig for the pectineus; (vi) a cutaneous branch; and (vii) a branch to the femoral artery. The cutaneous branch becomes superficial by passing between the adductor longus and adductor i brevis, and is then directed along the posterior border of the sartorius, where it communicates with twigs from the long saphenous and from the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous to form the subsartorial plexus. (6) The posterior branch gives off branches to supply the hip-joint and the obturator externus, and then pierces the upper part of that muscle and reaches the interval between tbe adductor brevis and ^adductor magnus. It runs downwards on the anterior surface of the latter muscle, supplying it with twigs, and terminates in an articular twig, the geniculate branch, which is distributed to the knee-joint, (i) The twig to the hip-joint enters the acetabulum by passing through the coty- loid notch. It ramifies in the fat occupying the floor of the acetabulum and in the adjacent synovial membrane, (ii) The branch to the obturator externus pierces the deep surface of the muscle, (iii) Several large twigs enter the adductor mag- nus. (iv) The geniculate branch pierces the lower part of the adductor magnus and appears on the posterior surface of that muscle close to the opening for the popliteal vessels, and descends on the inner side of (sometimes behind) the pop- liteal artery. Having given off a filament which accompanies the superior internal articular artery, it breaks up into terminal twigs which separately pierce the pos- terior ligament of the knee-joint. An accessory obturator nerve is occasionally present. It arises between the anterior crural and obturator nerves from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It runs along the inner border of the psoas, and crosses in front of the brim of the pelvis to gain the deep surface of the pectineus. In this situation it breaks up into branches. The largest of these branches joins the obturator nerve, others enter the capsule of the hip-joint, and a branch is furnished to the pec- tineus. The branch which joins the obturator nerve may carry filaments for the adduc- tors longus and brevis, and the gracilis. _ (5) The external cutaneous nerve arises, by two roots, from the second and third lumbar nerves. It emerges at the outer border of the psoas, and crosses obliquely in front of the iliacus to reach the interval between the anterior superior and^ anterior inferior spines of the ilium. In this course it runs under cover of the fascia iliaca. It then passes behind Poupart's ligament, crosses in front of the origin of the sartorius, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branch passes backwards and downwards under cover of the fascia lata, and divides into twigs which supply the integument covering the insertion of the gluteus maximus and the upper and outer part of the thigh. The anterior branch is much larger than the posterior. It runs downwards for several inches in a canal formed by the fascia lata, and enters the superficial fascia at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the thigh. It divides into branches which supply the skin of the outer part of the thigh, a few of the terminal twigs reaching as far is the knee and entering into the composition of the plexus patellae.