407 OBLIQ UUS IN TERN US— CREMA S TER and in its upper three-fourths it divides into an anterior and a posterior plane which together form the sheath of the rectus muscle. In the lower fourth of the abdomen the whole of the aponeurosis passes in front of this muscle. The line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique is indicated on the surface of the abdomen by a furrow called the linea semilunaris, which lies between the fleshy part of the muscle and the outer border of the rectus muscle, and forms a curve, concave inwards, which extends from the cartilage of the eighth rib above to the vicinity of the pubes below. The plica semilunaris, or fold of Douglas, on the other hand, is the name given to the lower edge of the posterior sheath of the rectus, when that muscle pierces the aponeuroses so as to lie behind all of them in the lower fourth of its course. The lowest portion of the aponeurosis of insertion of the obliquus interims is closely blended with that of the transversalis abdominis, and is called the con- joined tendon. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior primary branches of the lower thoracic nerves, and from the first nerve of the lumbar plexus by means of the ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric nerves. The main branches of these nerves run forwards between this muscle and the transversalis abdominis, and give off their filaments to the internal surface of the muscle; some also are distributed to the muscle by the branches which perforate it in order to supply the external oblique. Action.—(1) The fibres of the muscle being curved tend to flatten upon their contraction and so to compress the viscera contained within their concavity; they will therefore help in defecation, micturition, parturition, and all expiratory efforts. (2) It will also assist expiration by drawing the lower ribs downwards. (3) When both muscles act together, they flex the thorax upon the pelvis. They will also flex the lumbar and lower thoracic spine. (4) When the muscle of one side acts alone, or in conjunction with the obliquus externus of the other side, it will rotate the thorax to its own side. (5) The posterior fibres of the muscle will draw down the side of the thorax; it will therefore be a lateral flexor of the thorax and of the lumbar and lower dorsal spine. (6) Acting from the thorax, this muscle will flex the pelvis, rotate it to the opposite side, and by means of its posterior fibres it will act as a lateral flexor of the pelvis. Relations.—Superficially, the external oblique and latissimus dorsi; deeply, the transversalis abdominis. Its lower margin lies for a short distance in front of the inguinal canal, containing the spermatic cord in the male, and the round liga- ment in the female. The conjoined tendon lies internally beneath these structures. The aponeurosis of the internal oblique is also in relation with the rectus muscle, of which it forms the sheath in the upper three-fourths of its extent. Variations.—Sometimes the muscle is crossed close to its insertion into the ribs by tendinous intersections, which probably represent ribs. Cremaster \ ! The cremaster (fig. 285)—named from its action as a suspender of the testicle (xpsfiaGTrjp a suspender, from xpepdwupt to hang)—is really a detached part of the obliquus internus, forming with the fascia which connects its fibres a thin loop- shaped band, which in the male envelopes the lower part and front of the testicle and spermatic cord. In the female it is either entirely absent, or a few fibres upon the front of the round ligament take its place. Origin.—The upper and deep surface of Poupart's ligament about its middle point. Insertion.—(1) The spine, and crest of the pubic bone; (2) the front of the fascia propria or infundibuliform fascia, which envelopes the testicle and sper- matic cord. Structure.—The fibres, which differ from all other muscles in their scattered and separate character, spring fleshy from the concavity of Poupart's ligament on the deep aspect of the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, in continuation of the origin of the obliquus internus. Three main divisions may be noted:—(1) A series of loops which pass from this origin at different heights in front of the cord