549 THORACIC AORTA abdominal muscles, and anastomose with the deep epigastric artery from the external iliac, and with the lumbar arteries from the abdominal aorta. The intercostal arteries give off the following branches:-— (a) The dorsal branch.—This large branch is given off from the intercostals opposite the quadrilateral space bounded by the transverse process of the vertebra above, the neck of the rib below, the body of the vertebra internally, and the superior costo-transverse ligament externally. Passing backwards towards this space with the dorsal branch of the corresponding intercostal nerve, the dorsal branch divides opposite the intervertebral foramen into a spinal and a muscular branch, (i) The spinal branch enters the intervertebral foramen along with the undivided trunk of the intercostal nerve, and subdivides into three branches:—(a) an anterior, or preneural, which ramifies on the back of the body of the vertebra and anas- tomoses with the corresponding vessels above and below; (/?) a posterior, or retro- Fig. 362.—Scheme of Intercostal Artery. (Walsham.) Longissimus dorsi Internal division of muscular branch \ Z^nal division of muscular branch Semispinalia dorai and multifldus spinae Posterior spinal arteries ^ Retroneural branch Medullary branch _^ X Preneural branch SPINAL CORD ^j#35E2S Anterior spinal artery ^[ jj> ¥ Intercostal artery Vena azygos minor Vena azygos major THORACIC DUCT (ESOPHAGUS Ilio-eostalis Anterior intercostal Internal mammary artery Anterior perforating branch of internal mammary artery Spinal branch Dorsal branch SYMPATHETIC Lower branch of aortic intercostal Upper or main branch of aortic intercostal Lateral cutaneous branch Lower branch of anterior intercostal Mammary glandular branch Upper or main branch of anterior intercostal neural, which ramifies over the back of the spinal canal and also anastomoses with the like artery above and below; and (j) a middle or medullary, which, passing inwards in the sheath of dura mater to the spinal cord, anastomoses with the anterior spinal artery in front, and with the posterior spinal artery behind, (ii) The muscular branch passes backwards through the quadrilateral space, and soon subdivides into an external and internal branch. The former passes between the longissimus dorsi and ilio-costalis, and, after supplying these muscles, gives cuta- neous offsets to the integuments. The latter or internal branch pierces the multi- fldus spina?, and, emerging between the longissimus dorsi and semispinalis dorsi near the spinous processes, gives cutaneous offsets to the skin. It suj^plies the muscles in its course. (6) The collateral intercostal branch comes off from the intercostal artery near the angle of the rib above, and descends to the upper border of the rib below,