MIDDLE EAR 875 The membrane of Shrapnell is extremely thin, and consists only of the outer and inner layers, the fibrous layer being absent. The handle of the malleus descends between the two inner layers, accompanied by the vessels, which are often clearly visible in the living membrane. The Tympanic Cavity or middle ear is a narrow space which intervenes be- tween the external auditory meatus and the labyrinth of the internal ear (figs. 496 and 498a). It is a narrow irregular cavity, varying in width from a twelfth to a sixth of an inch (2 to 4 mm.), and having a total height of a little more than half an inch (15 mm). It consists of two parts, a lower and narrower, bounded exter- nally by the tympanic membrane, and an upper and wider part, called the attic, or epitympanum, which is continued backwards as the mastoid antrum into the mas- toid air cells. It is prolonged downwards and forwards into the Eustachian tube, through which it communicates with the pharynx. It contains air, and it is crossed from without inwards by a movable chain of bones—the tympanic ossicles—which conduct vibrations from the membrana tympani to the internal ear. Fig. 498.—Internal View of Right Membrana Tympani. (Enlarged.) Suspensory ligament of malleus INCUS HEAD OF MALLEUS CHORDA TYMPANI NER VE Tendon of tensor tympani HANDLE Or MALLEUS Ten3or tympani muscle EUSTACHIAN TUBE Posterior ligament of incus POSTERIOR PORTION OF RECESS FOR OSSICLES ABOVE MEMBRANE FOOTPIECE OF STAPES LENTICULAR PROCESS (OS ORBICULARE) Posterior portion of membrana tympani The roof is a thin plate of the petrous part of the temporal bone, which separates the cavity from the middle fossa of the skull. The floor is narrower than the roof. It is formed by the tympanic plate, and it separates the cavity from the jugular fossa. The outer wall is formed below by the tympanic membrane, and above by a part of the squamous portion of the temporal bone. The chorda tympani nerve, which traverses the outer wall, enters by a minute orifice, the aperture of the iter chordae posterius, and leaves the cavity by the iter chordae anterius, which leads into the canal of Huguier. The Glaserian fissure lies immediately below the latter orifice, but these minute openings are hidden by the mucous lining. The inner wall is vertical, and looks directly outwards. It presents, antero- inferiorly, a rounded prominence, the promontory, marked by grooves for the tym- panic plexus, and caused by the first turn of the cochlea. In front of the promon- tory is the commencement of the Eustachian tube (fig. 498a), above is the outer extremity of the canal for the tensor tympani muscle bounded by a prominent ridge of bone called the cochleariform process, and behind it is a recess, the sinus tympani, which intervenes between the fenestra ovalis above and the fenestra ro-