THE MAXILLA 55 prolonged backwards to form a crest; this crest comes into relation with the nasal spine of the frontal and the anterior border of the mesethmoid. The outer border articulates with the nasal process of the maxilla. Articulations.—The nasal bone articulates with its fellow, the frontal, maxilla, and ethmoid. Blood-supply.—Twigs to this bone are furnished by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the frontal, the angular, and the anterior ethmoidal arteries. Ossification.—Each nasal bone is developed from a single earthy nucleus in the membrane overlying the fronto-nasal cartilage. The nucleus is easily seen during the eighth week. The bone by its pressure soon produces absorption of the under- lying cartilage. At birth the nasal bones are nearly as wide as they are long, whereas in the adult, the length of the bones is three times greater than the width. THE MAXILLA The maxillae are two hollow irregular cuboidal bones with two prominent pro- cesses. They form a large portion of the facial skeleton. This bone is occupied by a large cavity, the antrum. The body presents four surfaces. Of these the facial surface looks forwards and outwards and presents the following points of interest:—The socket for the canine tooth causes a low elevation, the canine eminence, having to its inner side the incisive fossa, from which the depressor alas nasi arises. On the outer side of the eminence is the canine fossa, which gives origin to the levator anguli oris. Above this fossa is the infraorbital foramen, through which the terminal branches of the infraorbital nerve and artery emerge. From the ridge above this foramen the levator labii supe- rioris arises. A ridge of bone extending upwards from the socket of the second molar tooth separates the facial from the zygomatic surface. Near the middle of the zygo- matic surface are the orifices of the canals for the posterior dental nerves and vessels. The posterior inferior angle of this surface is termed the tuberosity ; from it a few fibres of the internal pterygoid muscle arise. This tuberosity is most promi- nent after eruption of the wisdom tooth; the rough surface along its inner border is for the tuberosity of the palate bone; the smooth surface immediately above forms the anterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters into the formation of the descending palatine canal. The orbital surface is irregularly triangular and forms the greater part of the floor of the orbit. Anteriorly it is rounded and forms part of the circumference of the orbit; externally it is rough for suture with the malar bone; the rough surface ends in a backwardly projecting spine which occasionally joins the sphenoid and forms the anterior limit of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The posterior margin, smooth and rounded, forms the inferior limit of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The internal border is nearly straight; quite at the posterior part is a gap for the orbital process of the palate bone; anteriorly it articulates with the os planum of the ethmoid; beyond this it receives the lachrymal bone, and in the anterior angle it is smooth and rounded, forming part of the circumference of the orbital orifice of the lachrymal duct. The orbital surface is traversed by the infraorbital groove, which, commenc- ing at the posterior border, deepens as it passes forwards and enters the infra- orbital canal. This groove receives the second division of the fifth nerve and the infraorbital ai'tery. The infraorbital canal runs under the margin of the orbit and opens on the facial surface. It transmits the infraorbital artery and nerve. At the termination of the groove a smaller canal tunnels the anterior wall of the antrum, and conveys the anterior dental nerves and vessels to the upper incisor, canine, and bicuspid teeth. External to the commencement of the lachrymal duct there is a shallow depression from which the inferior oblique takes origin. The internal or nasal surface forms the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and is prolonged inwards to form part of the floor of this fossa. The posterior half of this surface is deficient, and leads by a large irregular aperture into the antrum ; below and behind this opening the bone is rough for articulation with the vertical plate