498 THE ARTERIES dividing opposite the anterior clinoid processes in the fissure of Sylvius, into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. In its course up the neck it often forms one or more curves, especially in old people. Between the internal and the external carotids, at their angle of diverg- ence, is situated the intercarotid body, or ganglion intercaroticum. The internal carotid is the continuation upwards of the primitive dorsal aorta, and supplies the greater part of the brain, the contents of the orbit, and parts of the internal ear, forehead, and nose. It is divided into three portions:—1. a cervical; 2. an intraosseous", or petrosal; and 3. an intracranial. 1. The Cervical Portion Relations.—In the neck the artery is at first comparatively superficial, having in front of it, as it lies in the superior carotid triangle, the skin, superficial fascia, platysma and deep fascia, and the overlapping edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Higher up, as it sinks beneath the parotid gland (fig. 329), it becomes deeply placed, and is crossed by the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, the hypoglossal nerve, and the occipital and posterior auricular arteries; whilst still higher it is separated from the external carotid artery, which here gets in front of it, by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and by the stylo-hyoid ligament. Behind, it lies upon the rectus capitis anticus major, which separates it from the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebra?, on the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, and on the pneumogastric nerve. Near the base of the skull, the hypoglossal, pneumogastric,' glosso-pharyngeal, and spinal accessory nerves cross obliquely behind it, separating it at this spot from the internal jugular vein, which, as the artery is about to enter the carotid canal, also forms one of its posterior relations. On its outer side are the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve. On its inner side it is in relation with the pharynx, the superior constrictor muscle separating it from the tonsil. The ascending pharyngeal and ascending palatine arteries, and at the base of the skull the Eustachian tube and levator palati muscle are also internal to it. 2. The Intraosseous or Petrosal Portion Tbe intraosseous portion (fig. 331) is situated in the carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is here separated from the walls of the canal by a prolongation downwards of the dura mater. In this part of its course it first ascends in front of the tympanum and cochlea of the internal ear; it then turns forwards and inwards, lying a little internal to and behind the Eustachian tube, and enters the cranial cavity by turning upwards through the foramen lacerum medium, lying upon the lingula of the sphenoid bone. In this part of its course it is accompanied by the ascending branches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. These form a plexus about the artery, but are situated chiefly on its outer side. It is also surrounded by a number of small veins, Avbich receive tributaries from the tympanum, and open into the cavernous sinus and internal jugular vein. 3. The Intracranial Portion On entering the cranium through the foramen lacerum medium, the internal carotid first ascends towards the posterior clinoid process, but soon changing its direction, it curves forwards and slightly downwards by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone on the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. Here it has the sixth nerve immediately external to it, and is covered by the lining membrane of the sinus. Again turning upwards, it pierces the dura mater on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and, passing between the second and third nerves to the anterior perforated spot at the inner end of the Sylvian fissure, divides into its two terminal branches, the anterior and middle cerebral. After it has perforated the dura mater,