819 SYMPA THE TIC NER VES pierce the internal annular ligament, accompanying the branches of the internal i calcanean artery, and are distributed to the thick fascia and integument which covers the heel and adjacent part of the sole. (2) The internal plantar nerve is formed of fibres from the fourth and fifth lumbar, and the first and second sacral nerves. It is the larger of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial, and corresponds in its distribution to the median nerve in the hand. It runs forwards in the interval between the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum; gives off branches to supply both these muscles, and a number of cutaneous twigs which aj^pear in the interval between the mid<lle and internal parts of the plantar fascia. It also supplies the astragalo-navicular \ and the internal intercuneiform joints. Near the level of the tarso-metatarsal articulation it terminates by dividing into four digital branches. The first digital branch gives off a branch to supply the flexor brevis hallucis, and then runs along the inner side of the great toe as far as the extremity of that digit. The second branch gives off a twig to supply the first or innermost lumbrical muscle, and then divides into two collateral branches which supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes. The third branch divides in a similar manner to supply the contigu- ous sides of the second and third toes. The fourth branch communicates with the superficial division of the external plantar, and divides to supply the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes. The muscular twigs to the flexor brevis hallucis and the first lumbrical muscle contain fibres from the fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves. (3) The external plantar nerve is formed by fibres of the first and second sacral nerves. It shows many points of resemblance to the distribution of the ulnar nerve in the hand. From its origin, at the termination of the posterior tibial nerve, it is directed outwards and forwards between the flexor brevis digitorum and , the flexor accessorius. In this part of its course it supplies the accessorius, the abductor minimi digiti, and the calcaneo-cuboid joint. It is then directed forwards in the interval between the last-named muscle and the flexor brevis digitorum, and terminates at the level of the tarso-metatarsal articulations by dividing into a super- ficial and a deep division. Previous to its division it gives off several cutaneous twigs, which appear in the interval between the middle and external divisions of the plantar fascia. The superficial division divides into two digital nerves, an exter- nal and an internal. The internal branch supplies the interosseous muscles which occupy the fourth interosseous space, and, having communicated with the internal plantar, divides into two collateral branches which supply the contiguous sides of fourth and fifth toes. The external branch supplies the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and is then directed along the outer border of the little toe to terminate at [the extremity of that digit. The deep division of the external plantar nerve runs [inwards and forwards on the dorsal or deep surface of the flexor tendons, and rami- ifies in the interval between these tendons and the interosseous muscles. It sup- plies the three outer lumbrical muscles, the interosseous muscles occupying the Ithree inner interosseous spaces, the transversus pedis, and the adductor hallucis, and it gives branches to the adjacent articulations. Table Showing Relations of Lumbar and Sacral Nerves to Branches op Lumbar and Sacral Plexuses Nerves. r Ilio-hypogastris 1 ,, inguinal Genito-crural External cutaneous f Anterior crural I Obturator / Superior gluteal I Nerve to quadratus femoris Gt. sciatic (ext. poplit. part) Gt. sciatic (int. poplit. part) Nerve Roots. II 1 and 2 L 2 and 3 L 2, 3, and 4 L. . . . . 4, 5 L., and IS.. . . 4, 5 L., 1 and 2 S. . . 4, 5 L, 1, 2, and 3 S.