THE SCAPULOCLAVICULAR 221 ligaments, moves upon the sternum; so that the entire scapula moves in the arc of a circle whose centre is at the stemo-clavicular joint, and whose radius is the clavicle. The scapula, in moving upon the clavicle, also moves upon the thorax forwards and backwards, upwards and downwards, and also in a rotatory direction upon an axis drawn at right angles to the centre of the bone. Throughout these movements the lower angle and base of the scapula are kept in contact with the ribs by the latissimus dorsi which straps down the former, and the rhomboids and serratus magnus which brace down the latter. The glenoid cavity could not have preserved its obliquely forward direction had there been no acromio-clavieular joint, but would have shifted round a vertical axis, and thus the shoulder would have pointed inwards when the scapula was advanced, and outwards when it was drawn backwards. By means of the acromio-clavieular joint, the scapula can be forcibly advanced upon the thorax, the glenoid cavity all the time keeping its face duly forwards. Thus the muscles of the shoulder and forearm can be with advan- tage combined, as, for example, in giving a direct blow. The acromio-clavieular joint also permits the lower angle of the scapula to be retained in contact with the chest wall during the rising and falling of the shoulder, the scapula turning in a hinge-like manner round the horizontal axis of the joint. There are no actions in which the scapula moves on a fixed clavicle, or the clavicle on a fixed scapula; the two bones, bound together by their connecting ligament, must move in unison. (c) The Proper Scapular Ligaments There are three proper ligaments of the scapula, which pass between different portions of the bone, viz.— Coraco-acromial. Transverse. Inferior transverse. The coraco-acromial ligament (figs. 222 and 226) is a flat, triangular band with a broad base, attached to the outer border of the coracoicl process, and a blunt apex which is fixed to the tip of the acromion. It is made up of two broad marginal bands, and a smaller and thinner intervening portion. The anterior band, which arises from the anterior portion of the coracoid process, is the stronger, and some of its marginal fibres can often be traced into the short head of the biceps, which can then make tense this edge of the ligament. The posterior band, coming from the posterior part of the coracoid process, is also strong. The intermediate part, of variable extent, is thin and membranous, containing but few ligamentous fibres; it is often incomplete near the coracoicl process, leaving a small gap (fig. 222). The superior surface of the ligament looks upwards and a little forwards, and is covered by the deltoid muscle; the inferior looks downwards and a little backwards, and is separated from the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a bursa. At the coracoid process it overlies the coraco-humeral ligament. It is barely one-third of an inch (8 mm.) above the capsule of the shoulder, and in the undissected state there is scarcely a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) interval. The anterior band projects over the centre of the head of the humerus, and is continued into a tough fascia under the deltoid; the posterior band is continuous with the fascia over the supra-spinatus muscle. It binds the two processes firmly together, and so strengthens each; it holds the deltoid off the capsule of the shoulder, and protects the joint from slight injuries directed downwards and backwards against it. The transverse, coracoid, or suprascapular ligament (figs. 222, 223 and 224) is a small triangular band of fibrous tissue, the surfaces of which look forwards and backwards; and its edges, which are thin and sharp, are turned upwards and downwards. It continues the superior border of the scapula, bridging over the suprascapular notch. It is broader internally, where it springs from the upper border of the scapula on its dorsal surface; and narrow externally, where it is attached to the base of the coracoid process; some of its fibres are inserted under the edge of the trapezoid ligament, and others pass upwards with the conoid to