Il."i4 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY should be made backwards. The superior profunda comes off from the highest part of the artery and courses with the musculo-spiral nerve (rig. 714); tin- nutrient artery arises opposite the middle of the humerus; the inferior profunda below the middle, and courses with the ulnar nerve through the intermuscular septum to the hack of the internal condyle. The anastomotic^) is given from one to two inches above the bend of the elbow. The centre of the arm is a landmark for many anatomical structures. On the outer side is the insertion of the deltoid; on the inner that of the coraco-brachialis. The basilic vein and the nerve of "Wrisberg here perforate the deep fascia, going in reverse directions. The inferior profunda is here given off from the brachial; the median nerve also crosses the artery, and the ulnar nerve leaves the inner side of the vessel to pass to the inner aspect of the limb. The brachialis anticus can be mapped out by two pointed processes which surround the insertion of the deltoid, and which pass downwards into lines corre- sponding to the two intermuscular septa, and then converge over the front of the elbow to their insertion into the coronoid process. The median nerve can be traced by a line drawn from the outer side of the third part of the axillary and first part of the brachial artery, across this latter vessel about its centre, and then along its inner border to the forearm, where it passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres. The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side of the above arteries as far as the middle of the arm, where it leaves the brachial to course more inwards and perforate the internal intermuscular septum and get to the back of the internal condyle. Fig. 717.—Vektical Section of the Elbow. (One-half.) (Braune.) Tendon of biceps ■ Braehio-radialis RADIAL NERVE Brachialis anticus Extensor carpi radialis longior ■ •i;s®S&*aBHI Pronator teres MEDIAN NERVE Flexor carpi radialis Internal lateral ligament fggjyf ILNAR NERVE OLECRANON Tendon of triceps The musculo-spiral nerve can be traced by a line beginning behind the third part of the axillary artery, then carried vertically down behind the uppermost part of the brachial, and then, just below the posterior border of the axilla, curving backwards behind the humerus and slightly downwards, just below the insertion of the deltoid. Thus, passing from within outwards and from before backwards in its groove with the superior profunda vessels, it again comes to the front by perforating the external intermuscular septum at a point about opposite to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the arm, and passes down in front of the external supra- condyloid ridge, lying here between the brachio-radialis and brachialis anticus, to the level of the external condyle, where it divides into radial and posterior inter- osseous. The former of these accompanies the radial artery to the front of the arm, the latter travels backwards to the back of the forearm. On the back of the arm is the triceps muscle, with its three heads and tendon of insertion, all brought into relief in a muscular subject when the forearm is strongly extended. Of the three heads, the inner is the least distinct, arising below the musculo-spiral groove, reaching to each intermuscular septum, and tapering away above as high as the teres major. The outer head, arising above the groove as high as the great tuberosity, appears in strong relief just below the deltoid; while the middle or long head, arising from the scapula just below the glenoid cavity, appears between the teres muscles. The tendon of insertion, passing into the upper and back part of the olecranon over a deep bursa, is shown by a some- what depressed area.