110 THE SKELETON deltoid tubercle, and gives origin to the deltoid muscle. The posterior border is thick and rounded: into it the trapezius is inserted. The inner two-thirds is prismatic in form; it has three surfaces and three borders. Of these, the anterior surface is convex and presents near the sternal end a rough surface for the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major, and a rough surface above for the sterno-cleido-mastoid. Near the middle of the shaft it is smooth and covered by the thin platysma my aides; sometimes a small canal passes at right angles through this surface of the clavicle; it is traversed by a cutaneous branch from the cervical plexus. The posterior surface is concave, and forms an arch over the brachial plexus and subclavian artery. Fig. 118.—The Left Clavicle. (Superior surface.) Anterior The inferior surface commences externally as a groove for the subclavius, the floor of the groove being continuous with the inferior surface of the outer third of the clavicle, and frequently presents the orifice of the nutrient foramen. Internally, this groove becomes very narrow, and runs on to the rough surface for the rhomboid ligament. On the sternal side of the rhomboid impression there is often a facet where the clavicle plays on the first costal cartilage. Xear this facet the stemo-hyoid muscle finds an attachment, and occasionally the sterno- thyroid. Of the three borders, the superior separates the anterior and posterior surfaces; it is faintly marked towards the sternal end; externally, it becomes continuous with the posterior border of the outer third. The anterior border Fig. 119.—The Left Clavicle. (Inferior surface.) Oblique line for Capsular trapezoid Tuberosity for ligament ligament conoid ligament Subclavius Posterior "Rhomboid ligament and Sterno- hyoid Sterno-thyroid ACROMIAL FACET Pectoralis major A>'TEEIOB separates the anterior and inferior surfaces; it is continuous with the anterior border of the flattened portion. The posterior border separates the inferior and posterior surfaces, and forms the posterior hp of the groove for the subclavius; it begins at the conoid tubercle, and ends at the rhomboid depression. The inner or sternal end of the clavicle is broad and expanded; it plays upon a fibro-cartilage interposed between it and the clavicular facet of the manubrium of the sternum, and its borders are rough for the attachment of the sterno-clavicular and inter- clavicular ligaments. The acromial, or outer end, presents a smooth articular facet, directed slightly downwards for the acromion; its edges, especially the superior, are rough for the attachment of the acromio-clavicular ligaments.