996 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION The duodenum still has a meso-duodenum, and is still entirely invested by peritoneum. In man further changes take place, but in mammals below man the condition just described is that which represents the normal arrangement. Fig. 597 may be considered to represent in diagrammatic fashion the simple intestine of a carnivo- rous animal. In the human subject even development may not proceed beyond this point, and the condition detailed may be met with in the adult as a permanent arrange- ment. I have described some examples of this (' The Anatomy of the Intestinal Canal and Peritoneum in Man,' London, 1885; and 'Lancet,' Oct. 13, 1888). In these instances the whole of the small intestine, together with the caecum and the ascending colon, were slung from a common mesentery, the attachment of which to the posterior parietes was by a narrow neck giving passage to the superior mesen- teric artery, and bounded by the duodenum and the transverse colon. In these Fig. 596.—Alimentary Canal of Cholcepus Hoffmanni. subjects there was no trace of the mesentery proper as it is found in the normal human body. The duodenum had been deprived of its meso-duodenum, and the descending meso-colon was comparatively scanty; but, with these and some minor exceptions, the resemblance of the arrangement of the bowels to that met with in the lower animals was very exact. It is the existence of this immature condition that predisposes to certain forms of twist or volvulus of the bowel. The progress of this rudimentary revolution of the intestinal tube may be noted by observing the progress of the caecum. That prominent diverticulum lies at first below the loop forming the lesser bowel, and then to its left side. It is at first without the abdomen, and is gradu- ally withdrawn in the progress of development through the rapidly closing umbilical opening. It then lies about the middle of the belly and just below the liver. Later, it passes to the right side, and then descends into the right iliac fossa. It may be permanently arrested at any point of its course. In the condition known as the congenital umbilical hernia, the gap in the anterior abdominal