EXTENSOR B RE VIS DIGITORUM 391 4. PERONEUS TERTIUS The peroneus tertius—named from xepovrj^ the fibula, and called tertius because it is the third of the muscles which pass from the fibula to the metatarsus—is a small triangular sheet which is closely blended with the preceding muscle. Origin.—(1) The lower fourth of the anterior (or extensor) surface of the fibula; (2) the front of the interosseous membrane for a short distance above the ankle-joint; (3) the external intermuscular septum and the deep fascia of the leg. Insertion.—The upper part of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the muscular fibres pass downwards and inwards in penniform fashion to a tendon which appears on the inner border of its anterior surface. It becomes free from fleshy fibres at the level of the ankle-joint, and after passing beneath the upper part of the anterior annular ligament, it is in- cluded with the extensor longus digitorum in a special synovial sheath beneath the lower part of the ligament, and finally diverges from it to be inserted into the inner part of the upper surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Nerve-supply.—Unlike the other peronei, which are supplied by the musculo- cutaneous nerve, it receives filaments from the anterior tibial which enter the inner and deep aspect of the muscle in the upper part of its course. Action.—(1) To flex the ankle-joint; (2) to abduct the anterior part of the foot; (3) slightly to elevate the outer border of the foot and so to produce eversion of the sole. Relations.—Superficially, the anterior annular ligament and branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve; on the inner side, the extensor longus digitorum, of which it is really a subdivision; on the outer side, the peroneus bi'evis; deeply, the ankle and outer tarsal joints with the extensor brevis digitorum. Variations.—The peroneus tertius is often closely blended with the extensor longus digi- torum. It is sometimes wanting, and replaced by a slip of tendon from the extensor longus digitorum. Occasionally it sends slips of tendon to the expansion of the extensor longus digitorum on the first phalanx of the two outer toes, or to the fourth dorsal interosseous. MUSCLE ON THE DORSUM OF THE FOOT This consists of the four bellies of one muscle—the extensor brevis digitorum. EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM The extensor brevis digitorum—named from its being the shorter of the two muscles which extend the toes—is a triangular sheet which breaks up in front into four small divisions. Origin.—(1) The outer part of the upper surface of the great process of the calcaneum; (2) the interior of the loop of fascia which forms the outer part of the lower anterior annular ligament. Insertion.—By four tendons into the four inner toes; the innermost is attached to the outer border of the upper surface of the first phalanx of the great toe near its base; the three other tendons to the outer border of the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum just in front of the bases of the first phalanges. Structure.—Arising superficially by fleshy, and on the deep surface by short tendinous fibres, the muscle diverges inwards and forwards, and soon divides into four fleshy bellies, of which that to the great toe is the largest and most separate. Each portion has a bipenniform arrangement, with its central tendon upon the dorsal surface, and becoming free opposite the middle of the metatarsus.