288 THE MUSCLES MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The first group consists of those which, arising from various parts of the head, neck, and trunk, are inserted into the bones of the shoulder girdle, viz. the clavicle and scapula, or into the humerus. Of this group there are two divisions: the one comprising the muscles which take their origin from the back of the head, neck, and trunk; the other, those which arise from the front and sides of the thorax. POSTERIOR DIVISION OF THE GROUP OF MUSCLES PASSING FROM THE TRUNK TO THE UPPER EXTREMITY This division consists of two layers, which lie superficial to the proper back muscles. Overlying these layers is, first, the superficial fascia, which is strong, well provided with fat, and continuous with that of the head, neck, axilla, and other adjacent regions; and, secondly, the deep fascia, which is thin and forms the sheath of the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles. Above and in front, the deep fascia is continuous with the deep cervical fascia; lower down, with the axillary fascia, and that covering the thoracic and abdominal parietes. Inter- nally it is attached to the spines of the vertebrae, and below it blends with the lumbar aponeurosis. First Layer Consisting of one muscle—the trapezius. THE TRAPEZIUS The trapezius (or cucullaris, as it has been called from its resemblance to a cowl = mcuUus) is named from Tpdne^a, a table, on account of the four-sided figure formed by the muscles of the two sides. It is a fan-shaped sheet forming an obtuse-angled triangle, the long side of which corresponds with the spine. Origin.—(1) The inner third of the superior nuchal line of the occipital bone, and the external occipital protuberance; (2) the posterior border of the ligamentum nuchas; (3) the spines of the seventh cervical and all the thoracic vertebras, together with the supraspinous ligament. Insertion.—(1) The posterior border of the outer third of the clavicle and the adjacent part of its upper surface; (2) the inner edge of the upper surface of the acromion process; (3) the upper border of the spine of the scapula, and a small tubercle at its inner extremity. Structure.—The origin of the muscle is by short tendinous intermingled with fleshy fibres, except at two places, where the tendinous fibres form a continuous sheet. The first of these is from the middle of the ligamentum nuchas to the second thoracic spine; here a conspicuous oval aponeurosis is formed by the tendons of the two sides. The second is at the lower acute angle of the muscle where it arises from the lowest thoracic vertebra. The muscular fibres converge from the extensive origin, and just before their insertion, the sheet of the muscle is folded upon itself, to adapt it to the V-shaped process of the shoulder girdle, into which it is inserted by fleshy fibres, except at the inner extremity of the spine of the scapula, where a tendinous sheet plays over the triangular base of that process, before it is inserted into the tubercle at the inner end of the spine. Sometimes a bursa intervenes between this sheet and the triangular surface of the scapular spine. Nerve-supply.—From the spinal accessory; and from the deep cervical plexus by branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves, which, after communicating