THE XERVOUS SYSTEM 708 The optic commissure is formed by the imion and partial decussation of the optic tracts of opposite sides. Each optic tract may be traced backwards from the commissure, around the eras cerebri, to the region of the corpora geniculata (page 710). ... The lamina cinerea is a thin plate of grey matter which may be seen from the base of the brain by pulling the optic commissure slightly backwards. It is continuous in front with the grey matter of the olfactory convolutions of the frontal lobes, and between the latter it is connected to the rostrum of the corpus callosum by the basal white commissure. Laterally, it is continuous with the anterior perforated space. It forms the anterior sloping part of the floor of the third ventricle. Nerve-tracts in the substance of the thalamencephalon and prosen- cephalon.—The systems of fibres which are connected with the optic thalamus may be first considered; the principal of these are: (a) The posterior commis- sure; (6) the corona radiata of the optic thalamus; and (c) the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr. (a) The posterior commissure contains a tract of fibres which passes from the optic thalamus to the tegmental region of the mesencephalon on the opposite side; but beyond this, nothing is known with any degree of certainty. It is said to transmit fibres from the fillet and from the posterior longitudinal bundle to the oppo- site side. Fibres are also said to proceed via this commissure from the ganglion habenulse and the pineal body to the oculo-motor nucleus of the opposite side. It is therefore a bundle of decussating fibres derived from various sources, and prob- ably does not contain any true commissural fibres. (b) The corona radiata of the optic thalamus is formed of a system of fibres which converge to the thalamus from the cortex of the frontal, parietal, occipital, and temporal lobes, and it also receives a small bundle from the cortical part of the olfactory tract. Portions of this system, namely, the fibres from the occipital lobe (posterior peduncle of the thalamus),and from the temporal lobe (inferior peduncle), require special notice. The posterior peduncle of the thalamus (optic radiation) passes backwards in the white matter of the hemisphere in company with a great bundle of sensory fibres to the occipital lobe. It is further described in connection with the optic nerve (page 746). The inferior peduncle may, for the sake of simplicity, be described with the ansa peduncularis, as it forms an important constituent of that body. The ansa peduncularis may be exposed from the base of the brain by dissecting the optic tract from the surface of the crus cerebri. It is a band of fibres which winds round the ventral surface of the crusta just at the transition of the latter into the inner capsule. Its principal constituents are the ansa lenticularis and the inferior peduncle of the thalamus. The ansa lenticularis proceeds from the medullary laminae of the lenticular nucleus and passes transversely inwards immediately below the globus pallidus. It then enters the subthalamic region, and without doubt passes into the mesencephalon, but its exact course cannot be followed with certainty. The inferior peduncle of the thalamus is partly formed by a sagittally-directed bundle which passes backwards through the substance of the thalamus between the anterior pillar of the fornix and the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr. This bundle is joined by fibres from the superior surface of the thalamus (stratum zonale). The fibres from the stratum zonale pass from the superior to the internal surface of the thalamus, and finally, reaching the inferior surface of that body, join the sagittal bundle first mentioned to form the inferior peduncle; the latter now passes outwards below the ansa lenticularis and ends in the cortex of the tem- poral lobe. (c) The bundle of Vicq d'Azyr passes from the anterior tubercle of the thala- mus to the nucleus of the corpus albicans. It might be regarded as a constituent of the corona radiata—the nucleus of the corpus albicans being considered as modified cortex. The white matter of the cerebral hemispheres contains the following systems of fibre: (a) The corona radiata; (b) commissural or interhemispheric fibres: (c) association or intrahemispheric fibres. These three systems of fibres are disposed in more or less defined tracts which can be unravelled by dissection but in certain