INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE 817 The internal popliteal nerve, formed of fibres from the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first, second, and third sacral nerves, is larger than the external popliteal nerve; it runs downwards, following the same direction as the great sciatic, to reach the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it is continued into the posterior tibial nerve. In this course it occupies the middle vertical diameter of the popliteal space, and is the most superficially placed of the important contents of that space. It is overlapped by the hamstring muscles above and by the heads of the gastrocnemius below; but is covered only by the skin and fasciae for about two inches above the line of the knee-joint. The popliteal vein intervenes between the internal popliteal nerve and the artery, and the nerve is on a plane superficial j to the vessels. In the upper part of the popliteal space the vessels are internal to ■ the nerve; at the level of the knee-joint they are immediately in front of the nerve; and at the lower part of the space they are placed external to it. Branches.—The branches of the internal popliteal nerve may be classified into cutaneous, articular, muscular, and terminal. (1) The cutaneous branch, the nervus communicans tibialis, containing fibres from the first and second sacral nerves, arises from the internal popliteal about the centre of the popliteal space, and runs vertically downwards, under cover of the deep fascia, to reach the interval between the two heads of the gastrocnemius; then, inclining a little outwards, it pierces the deep fascia, and unites with the communicans fibularis to form the short saphenous nerve. The external or short saphenous nerve is formed about the middle of the calf (sometimes higher up or ;lower down), and runs downwards and outwards, accompanied by the vein of the same name, to reach the interval between the external malleolus and the calcaneum. It crosses superficial to the external annular ligament, and then runs forwards along jthe outer border of the foot, supplying numerous twigs to the integument of the region. Having communicated with the external branch of the musculo-cutaneous, it terminates by supplying the integument on the outer side of the little toe. Varieties.—In a large number of cases the distribution of this nerve is much more extensive. It may supply the fifth and fourth toes and the outer border of the third. In some cases the communicans fibularis does not join the communicans tibialis, but ends independently in the integuments of the calf. (2) The muscular branches of the internal popliteal nerve are distributed to the gastrocnemius, soleus, plantaris, and popliteus muscles. There is a separate branch for each head of the gastrocnemius, containing fibres from the first and second sacral nerves. The branches to the plantaris and popliteus muscles are formed of fibres from the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves. The branch to the popliteus arises lower down than the other branches. It crosses the superficial surface of the popliteal artery to reach the outer side of that vessel, runs downwards on the posterior surface of the popliteus, and winds round the lower border of that muscle to gain its deep or anterior surface, where it ends in the mus- cular substance; before it turns round the lower border of the muscle, it gives a branch to the superior tibio-fibular articulation, another to the tibia along the medul- lary artery, and a long branch to the interosseous membrane; the latter gives twigs to the anterior and posterior tibial arteries and then runs down in the interosseous membrane and ends in the inferior tibiofibular articulation. The nerve to the soleus is relatively large, it crosses the plantaris to gain the posterior surface of the soleus carrying fibres of the fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. (3) The articular branches are three in number, and accompany the superior iand inferior internal articular and the azygos branches of the popliteal artery, to be distributed to the knee-joint. j The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE contains fibres derived from the fourth and i fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves; it is the terminal branch of the [internal popliteal, or rather the direct continuation of that nerve. It runs down- wards with an inclination inwards to reach the interval between the inner malleolus ynd the os calcis, and, having passed under cover of the origin of the abductor hallucis muscle, terminates by dividing into the internal and external plantar nerves, at a point midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the most prominent part of the os calcis. In the upper part of its course it is covered by the