19 THE VERTEBRA cervical spine measures 12 5 cm. (5"), the thoracic 27-5 cm. (11"), the lumbar 17-5 cm. (7"), and the sacrococcygeal portion 12-5 cm. (5"). Viewed in profile, the column presents four curves : the first, or cervical, is convex anteriorly; the thoracic is much larger and longer, with its concavity for- ward; the lumbar curve has its convexity directed anteriorly, and ends somewhat abruptly at the sacro-vertebral angle ; and to this succeeds the pelvic curve, which corresponds to the hollow of the sacrum. In addition to these, the whole column has a slight lateral curve with the convexity to the right, probably due to muscular action. Viewed from the front, the superimposed bodies present three pyramids. The first is formed by the cervical vertebras from the second to the seventh. The bodies of the lumbar and thoracic vertebrae form a much longer pyramid. The third is inverted, and formed by the sacrum and coccyx. Posteriorly, the column presents a median and two lateral rows of processes. The median row is formed by the spinous processes. In the cervical spine, with the exception of the first and the seventh, they are bifid. In the thoracic set they end in rounded tubercles, are long, and for the most part directed obliquely down- wards, but in the lower part they become more horizontal until the eleventh is reached. The spine of the eleventh thoracic vertebra is small and almost horizontal; this is the anti-dinal vertebra. In the lumbar region the spinous processes are short, Fig. 21.—A Divided Thoracic Vertebra. (After Turner.) stout plates of bone, with their borders set vertically; in the sacrum they are ves- tigial, and in the coccyx completely suppressed. The lateral rows are formed by the transverse processes, which are most marked in the thoracic region, where they are rib-bearers. In the cervical spine they are in the same plane as the ribs. The articular processes in the cervical region are in series with the transverse processes of the thoracic vertebrae. Between the ridges formed by the spinous and transverse processes we recognise the vertebral grooves in which muscles are lodged. The floor of each groove is formed by the laminae and articular processes, with their mammillary tubercles in the lumbar and lower thoracic regions. Similar tubercles are present on the inferior articular processes of the three lower cervical vertebras. The intervertebral foramina, oval in shape, are small in the cervical, but gradually increase in size in the thoracic, and are largest in the lumbar region. Ossification.—The various ossific centers for the vertebras are deposited in the cartilage which, very early in embryonic life, surrounds the notochord and gradually encloses the spinal cord. A typical vertebra arises from three primary and numerous secondary centres. The primary centres appear during the sixth week of embryonic life. In the thoracic region the nucleus for the body is first seen, but in the cervical region the lateral centres make their appearance somewhat earlier. The nucleus for the body is deposited around the centre, and quickly becomes bilobed. This bilobed, or dumb-bell, shape is often so pronounced as to give rise to the appearance of two