430 THE MUSCLES The palpebral portion will lower the upper and raise the lower eyelid, in closure of the eye. (4) The firm contraction of the whole muscle presses upon the eyeball, and supports it from the evil effect of a strong expiratory effort, which by the rush of blood into the interior of the eyeball might burst its thin-walled vessels, and do serious harm to the-delicate structures within. Thus it will be noticed that in shouting, sneezing, or violent coughing the eyes are tightly closed. (5) By pressure upon the lachrymal gland it is probable that the muscle influences tbe secretion of tears: hence their flow during violent coughing or laughter. It will also draw out- wards and forwards the covering of the lachrymal sac, and so produce a suction of the tears through the canaliculi into the sac. Relations.—Superficially, the skin; upon its deep surface the tarsal cartilages and their ligaments, the palpebral ligaments and the expansion of the tendon of the levator palpebral superioris; the bones which bound the opening of the orbit, the frontalis and corrugator supercilii muscles above; the temporal fascia exter- nally; the zygomaticus minor, levator labii superioris, and levator labii superioris ala?que nasi, below; also the supraorbital vessels and nerve, the supratrochlear nerve, the terminal portion of the facial artery, and the palpebral branches of the infraorbital vessels and nerve. 2. TENSOR TARSI The tensor tarsi—named from its supposed action upon the tarsus—is a small muscle composed of two flat slips, which are closely connected with the preceding muscle. Fig. 310.—The Tensor Tarsi axd Corrugator Supercilii. Orbicularis palpebrarum TenBor tarBi Corrugator supercilii Obliquus superior Obliquus inferior Origin.—The crest of the lachrymal bone. Insertion.—The posterior aspect of the inner end of the tarsi. Structure.—Arising as a thin muscular sheet, at the back of, and in close con- tact with, the outer surface of the lachrymal sac, the muscle divides into two slips which run behind the canaliculi, and are inserted into the edge of the eyelids near the puncta lachrymalia. Nerve-supply.—From the infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, by small slips which enter the muscle near its lower border. Action.—To compress the lachrymal sac by drawing inwards and backwards the outer part of the tendo oculi and the inner ends of the tarsi. Relations.—Internally and in front, the lachrymal sac; externally and behind, the orbital fat from which it is separated by the capsule of Tenon. ft 3. CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII The corrugator supercilii—named from its action, the wrinkling of the brow— is a short ribbon-shaped muscle. Origin.—The inner extremity of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone. *