943 THE PALATE are several glands, the molar glands, whose ducts pierce the buccinator and open in the vestibule opposite the last molar teeth, and a large quantity of fat, which gives rotundity to the features, and constitutes what is sometimes spoken of as the sucking cushion of the cheek. Opposite the second upper molar tooth is a papilla which marks the opening of the duct of the parotid gland. The gums are formed by a layer of tough areolar tissue covering the alveolar processes, and firmly attached to their periosteum. They are covered on both aspects by the mucous membrane of the mouth, the inner surfaces receiving reflexions from the sides and anterior extremity of the tongue, a median fold forming the frsenum of that organ; and the outer surfaces receiving reflexions from the cheeks and lips. In the median line above and below the orifice of the mouth are folds of mucous membrane, forming the fraena labiorum, of which the upper is the more marked. THE PALATE The palate consists of two portions, the anterior or hard palate, and the poste- rior or soft palate. The hard palate, which is limited in front and laterally by the alveolar processes, ends posteriorly in a free border to which the soft palate is attached. The mucous membrane which covers it is corrugated, thick and somewhat pale, and is firmly bound down to its periosteum. In the median line of the palate is a Fig. 558a.—Palato-glossus Muscle, seen from the Mouth, with Section of Base of Tongue. UVULA MVLO-HYOID ridge called the raphe; at the anterior extremity of this is a small papilla which marks the inferior opening of the anterior palatine canal, and extending from its sides, anteriorly, are five or six transverse ridges. The mucous membrane cover- ing the hard palate receives its nerve-supply from the anterior palatine and naso- palatine nerves. The soft PALATE (fig. 560) is attached to the posterior border of the hard palate, of which it forms a backward prolongation hanging down at the back of the mouth, and thus partially separating the latter cavity from the pharynx. Its sides are merged in the pharyngeal wall, and its lower border is free.