368 THE MUSCLES nerve to the vastus interims being a large and conspicuous branch which lies close to the outer side of the superficial femoral artery in the upper part of Hunter's canal. Action.—The vastus externus, crureus, and vastus internus, together with the rectus femoris, extend powerfully the knee. Their intermediate insertion into the sesamoid bone formed by the. patella serves to lift from the line of the tibia the ligamentum patella?, which may be looked upon as the lower part of their common tendon. The enormous power of the whole of this combination of muscles is necessitated partly by the fact that the whole of the weight of the body has to be raised by it, and partly by the great mechanical disadvantage which results from the short arm of the lever upon which the tendon acts, and the obliquity of its insertion. On account of the direction of the femur, which is downwards and inwards, the tendency of the quadriceps is to draw the patella outwards at the same time as up- wards. This is in some degree counteracted by the position and direction of the vastus internus. The great mass of the fibres of this part of the quadriceps arises in the lower part of the thigh, and is directed so transversely outwards towards the inner border of the patella, that when it contracts it tends to draw the patella inwards as well as upwards, and so the resultant of the various divisions of the quadriceps when contracting simultaneously is to draw the patella more directly upwards. If it were not for this arrangement, the contraction of the quadriceps would have a strong tendency to produce outward dislocation of the knee-cap. Relations of vastus externus, crureus, and vastus internus.—In front lie the fascia lata, tensor vaginae femoris, rectus femoris, and sartorius. To the inner side lie the femoral vessels and anterior crural nerve. On the outer side are the gluteus minimus and maximus. Behind are the biceps on the outer side of the femur, and the adductor longus and magnus on the inner side. Variations.—These are few in number. An accessory head to the rectus from the anterior superior spine of the ilium has been described, and occasionally the outer head is absent. THE DEEP FASCIA OF THE LEG AND ANNULAR LIGAMENTS The deep fascia of the leg is continuous above with the fascia lata of the thigh and receives important additions from the tendons of the quadriceps, biceps, sartorius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus. It is also attached to the lower part of the outer and inner tuberosities of the tibia and to the head of the fibula. At the back of the knee it is strengthened by transverse fibres which serve to bind together the muscles which form the boundaries of the popliteal space; the external saphenous vein also perforates it about the centre of the space. It is very thick and strong at the upper and outer part of the front of the leg; but behind, where it covers the muscles of the calf, the fascia becomes much thinner. The internal surface of the tibia is not covered by this fascia, which blends with the periosteum covering its anterior and inner borders throughout their whole length. It is also attached to the borders of the fibula by two strong intermuscular septa which form the anterior and posterior walls of a compartment containing the long and short peronei. In the lower third of the leg it is attached to the borders of the subcutaneous surface of the fibula. In the neighbourhood of the ankle the deep fascia is thickened by the addition of numerous transverse fibres, and forms the annular ligaments. The anterior annular ligament (fig. 298) consists of two parts, an upper and a lower. The upper part is a strong band of transverse fibres just above the ankle- joint, which extends from the anterior border of the tibia to the anterior border of the subcutaneous surface of the fibula. Behind it there is a separate synovial sheath for the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The lower part of the anterior annular ligament arises from the upper surface and outer border of the great process of the calcaneum in two bands, a superficial and a deep, which, passing trans- versely inwards, unite after a course of about an inch (2-5 cm.), and thus form a loop in which are contained the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus tertius, together with part of the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum.