THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 794 described later on (page 797). The inner branch communicates with the ulnar nerve and divides to supply the adjacent sides of the middle and ring fingers. As the brandies of the median nerve pass downwards in the palm of the hand, they cross the deep or posterior surface of the superficial palmar arch. This relation to the arteries is reversed in the fingers, where the digital arteries are placed behind the nerves. As each digital nerve pursues its course along the margin of the corresponding finger, it gives off" twigs to the dorsum of the finger, which supply the skin on the dorsum of the second and third phalanges, particu- larly stout twigs passing to supply the matrix of the nail. Each nerve terminates in branches to the pulp of the finger, and ou these terminal branches as well as on the more proximal twigs to the volar aspect of the fingers, ovoid bodies, about the size of millet seeds, are developed. These bodies are called Pacinian corpuscles, and are one of the forms of sensory nerve-terminations. (6) The ulnar nerve is the largest branch of the inner cord of the brachial plexus, and is derived from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. It runs downwards between the axillary artery and the vein, posteriorly, and preserves the same relation to the brachial artery for the upper third of the arm. It then diverges from the brachial artery at an acute angle, and accompanies the inferior profunda artery through the internal muscular septum and downwards upon the inner head of the triceps to the interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon processes of the ulna. In this course it is placed under cover of the deep fascia. It then passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, comes into relation with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery, and runs downwards under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, between it and the flexor profunda! digitorum, to reach the wrist. At the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm it is joined, at an acute angle, by the ulnar artery, and runs parallel to the inner side of that vessel in the middle and lower two-thirds of the forearm under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and between that muscle and the flexor sublimis digitorum. Just above the wrist it pierces the deep fascia, enters the hand by crossing the superficial surface of the anterior annular ligament close to the radial border of the pisiform bone, and terminates by bifurcating into a superficial and a deep division. Branches.—The ulnar resembles the median nerve in not furnishing any branches to the upper arm. As it passes between the olecranon process and the internal condyle, it gives off two or three fine filaments to the elbow-joint. In the forearm it supplies the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner portion of the flexor profundus digitorum, and gives off the three cutaneous branches. In the hand it supplies the integument of the hypothenar eminence, the little finger and half of the ring finger and part of the dorsum; it also gives twigs to the palm and supplies the short intrinsic muscles of the hand with the exception of the abductor, the opponens, the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the two outer lumbri- cales. («.) The nerves to the flexor carpi ulnaris and to the inner two divisions of ',■ »l the flexor profundus digitorum arise from the ulnar in the upper third of the . 'al forearm. (//) The Palmar Cutaneous Branch.—About the middle of the forearm it gives off two cutaneous branches; one pierces the fascia and anastomoses with the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, and the other, the palmar cutaneous branch, runs downwards in front of the ulnar artery, and is conducted by the vessel into the palm. It furnishes some filaments to the vessel, and ends in the integument covering the central depressed surface of the palm and supplies a few twigs to the skin of the hypothenar eminence. (c) The dorsal or posterior cutaneous branch arises about two inches above the wrist-joint, and passes backwards under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris to reach the dorsal aspect of the wrist. It crosses superficial to the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris immediately below the lower end of the ulna, and, after giving off twigs to supply the skin of the dorsum of the hand, divides into three branches, namely: a branch to the inner border of the little finger; a branch which divides to supply the contiguous borders of the ring and little fingers, and a branch which communicates with the radial and participates in the supply of the adjacent borders of the ring and middle fingers. (d) The superficial terminal branch of the ulnar nerve gives off a branch to