THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 778 Nerves Fourth thoracic Fifth Sixth Seventh ,, Eighth Ninth Tenth Eleventh ,, Twelfth „ First lumbar Second Third „ Fourth ,, Fifth „ First sacral Fifth Coccygeal (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B (A (B Just below upper border of spine of first thoracic vertebra. Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of third thoracic vertebra. Upper border of spine of second thoracic vertebra. Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of fourth thoracic vertebra. Lower border of spine of second thoracic vertebra. Just below upper border of spine of fifth thoracic vertebra. Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of fourth thoracic vertebra. Just above lower border of spine of fifth thoracic vertebra. Junction of upper two-thirds and lower third of interval between spines of fourth thoracic and fifth thoracic vertebra:. Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of sixth thoracic vertebra. Midway between spines of fifth thoracic and sixth thoracic vertebra. Upper border of spine of seventh thoracic vertebra. Midway between spines of sixth thoracic and seventh thoracic vertebra:. Middle of spine of eighth thoracic vertebra. Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of seventh thoracic vertebra. Just above spine of ninth thoracic vertebra. Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of eighth thoracic vertebra. Just below spine of ninth thoracic vertebra, Midway between spines of eighth thoracic and ninth thoracic vertebra:. Lower border of spine of tenth thoracic vertebra. Middle of spine of ninth thoracic vertebra. Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. Middle of spine of tenth thoracic vertebra. Just below spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. Just below spine of tenth thoracic vertebra, Junction of upper quarter and lower three-quarters of spine of twelfth thoracic vertebra. Junction of upper third and lower two-thirds of spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. Middle of spine of twelfth thoracic vertebra. Just above lower border of spine of eleventh thoracic vertebra. Lower border of spine of first lumbar vertebra. Lower border of spine of first lumbar vertebra. Just below upper border of spine of second lumbar vertebra. Classification and number.—There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, viz.— eight cervical, twelve thoracic, five lumbar, five sacral, and one coccygeal nerve. The cervical nerves are named from the vertebra? below them; the thoracic, lumbar, sacral and coccygeal nerves from the vertebra: above them. The first cervical or suboccipital nerve escapes through the interval between the occipital bone and the atlas; the eighth cervical passes through the intervertebral foramen between the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebras. General distribution.—Each spinal nerve, at its exit from the intervertebral foramen, gives a small recurrent branch (Luschka), which receives a communicat- ing twig from the sympathetic, and re-enters the neural canal to be distributed to the meninges and blood-vessels within the canal. Immediately after its exit each nerve divides into an anterior and a posterior primary division. Both the anterior and posterior primary divisions are mixed nerves, containing fibres derived from both the anterior and the posterior roots. The posterior primary divisions are, with two exceptions, smaller than the anterior divisions. The posterior divisions of the first and second cervical nerves are larger than the anterior; that of the second cervical nerve being three or four times as large as the anterior division. In the regions of the great plexuses (brachial, lumbar, and sacral) the anterior division is very much larger than the