THE RIBS 103 ribs are united to one another and to the seventh costal cartilage by ligaments (sometimes by short vertical bars of cartilage), and those of the vertebral ribs end freely. The inner surfaces of the lower six afford attachment to the diaphragm and the transversalis muscle. The second, third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages articulate with the sides of the sternum, at a spot corresponding to the junction of two sternebrse. The sixth and seventh (and eighth when this reaches the sternum) are arranged irregularly. As a rule the sixth lies in a recess in the side of the fifth sternebra; the seventh corresponds to the line of junction of the meso- and metasternum; and the eighth articulates with the metasternum (see fig. 112). Blood-supply.—The twigs for the costal cartilages are derived from the terminal twigs of the aortic intercostals, and from the internal mammary arteries. Development.—At the eighth week of intra-uterine life the ribs are cartilag- inous. About this date an earthy spot appears near the angle of each rib, and spreads with great rapidity along the shaft, and by the fourth month reaches as far as the costal cartilage; the proportion borne by the rib-shaft to the costal cartilage is about the same at this date as in adult life. Whilst the ribs are in a cartilaginous condition, eight of them reach the sternum; even after ossification has taken place, the costal cartilage of the eighth rib, in many instances, articulates with the sternum as late as the eighth month (fig. 112). This relationship may persist through life, but usually the cartilage retrogresses, and is replaced by ligamentous tissue. About the fifteenth year a secondary centre appears for the head of each rib, and a little later one makes its appearance for the tubercle, except in the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs. The secondary centres fuse with the ribs about the twenty-third year. The rib-shaft increases in length mainly at its line of junction with the costal cartilage. The ribs may be increased in number by addition either at the cervical or lumbar end of the series, but it is extremely rare to find an additional rib or pair of ribs in both the cervical and luinbar regions in the same subject. Cervical ribs are fairly common; as a rule they are of small size and rarely extend more than a few millimetres beyond the extremity of the transverse process. Occasionally they exceed such insignificant proportions and reach as far as the sternum : between these two ex- tremes many varieties occm\ As a rule, the existence of a cervical rib is not detected until the skeleton is macerated ; hence we know little of the correlated arrangement of soft parts. In one fortunate case Turner was able to make a thorough dissection of a specimen in which a complete cervical rib existed. Its head articulated with the body of the seventh cervical ver- tebra and had a stellate ligament. The tubercle was well developed, and articulated with the transverse process. The costal cartilage blended with that of the first thoracic rib, and gave Fig. 112.—The Thorax at the Eighth Month. (On the left side eight cartilages reach the sternum.) Variations in the Number and Shape of the Ribs