THE SKELETON 108 completely cleft sternum. The union of the two halves may occur in the region of the manubrium, but fail below this point; in some instances the upper and lower segments have duly coalesced with the opposite jside, but union has failed in the middle segments. The clefts resulting from these failures of coalescence are in many instances so small as not to be of any moment, and not even recognised until Fig. 116.—Two Stages ix the Formation of the Cartilaginous Sternum. (After Euge.) the skeleton has been prepared. In a few individuals they have been so extensive as to allow the pulsation of the heart to be perceptible to the hand, and even to the eye, through the skin covering the defect in the bone. A common variation in the sternum is asymmetry of the costal cartilages. Instead of corresponding, the cartilages may articulate with the sternum in an alter- nating manner. The cause of this asymmetry is not known. THE THORAX The thorax is a bony cage of conical shape, formed by the thoracic vertebrae, the ribs with their costal cartilages, and the sternum. The thorax is compressed antero-posteriorly so that it measures less in the sagittal than in the transverse axis; it is also deeper posteriorly than anteriorly. Its posterior boundaries are formed by the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs as far outward as their angles; the backward curve of the ribs produces on each side of the vertebra? a deep furrow, the costo- vertebral groove, in which the erector spinas muscle and its subdivisions are lodged. The anterior boundary is formed by the sternum and costal cartilages. This surface is slightly convex, and has a slight inclination forwards in its lower part. The lateral boundaries are formed by the ribs from their angles to the costal cartilages. The top of the thorax presents an elliptical aperture, the thoracic inlet, which measures, on an average, 12-5 cm. (5") transversely, and 6-2 cm. (2^-") in its sagittal axis. The lower opening of the thorax is very irregular, and forms two curved lines