THE ELBOW-JO INT 227 within the capsule, surrounded only by a tubular process of synovial membrane. It is flat, with the surfaces looking upwards and downwards, until it reaches the bicipital groove, when it assumes a rounded form. It strengthens the articulation along the same course as the coraco-humeral ligament, and tends to prevent the head of the humerus from being pulled upwards too forcibly against the under surface of the acromion. It also serves the purpose of a ligament by steadying the head of the humerus in various movements of the arm and forearm, and to this end is let into a groove at the upper end of the bone, from which it cannot escape on account of the abutting tuberosities and the strong transverse humeral ligament which binds it down. Further, it acts like the four shoulder muscles, which pass over the capsule to keep the head of the humerus against the glenoid socket ; and, more- over, it resists the tendency of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles, in certain actions when the arm is away from the side of the body, to pull the head of the humerus below the lower edge of the cavity. 4. THE ELBOW-JOINT Class.—Dlarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. The elbow is a complete hinge, and, unlike the knee, depends for its security and strength upon the configuration of its bones rather than on the number, strength, or arrangement of its ligaments. The bones composing it are the lower end of the humerus above, and the upper ends of the radius and ulna below; the articular surface of the humerus being received partly within the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and partly upon the cup-shaped surface of the radius. The ligaments form one large and capacious capsule, which, by blending with the orbicular ligament, and then passing on to be attached to the neck of the radius, embraces the elbow and the superior radio-ulnar joints, uniting them into one. Laterally, it is considerably strengthened by superadded fibres arising from the condyles of the humerus and inseparably connected with the capsule. For con- venience of description it will be spoken of as consisting of four portions:— Anterior. Internal. Posterior. External. The anterior portion (fig. 228) is attached to the front of the humerus above the articular surface and coronoid fossa, in an inverted V-shaped manner, to two very faintly marked ridges which start from the front of the internal and external condyles, and meet at a variable distance above the coronoid fossa. Below, it is fixed, just beyond the articular margin, to the front of the coronoid process; it is intimately blended with the front of the orbicular ligament, a few fibres passing on to the neck of the radius. It varies in strength and thickness, being some- times so thin as barely to cover the synovial membrane; at others, thick and strong, and formed of coarse decussating fibres, the majority of which descend from the inner side outwards to the radius. The posterior portion (fig. 229), thin and membranous, is attached superiorly to the humerus, in much the same inverted V-shaped way as the anterior; ascend- ing from the internal condyle, along the inner side of the olecranon fossa nearly to the top; then, crossing the bottom of the fossa, it descends on the outer side, skirting the outer margin of the trochlear surface, and turns outwards along the posterior edge of the capitellum. Inferiorly, it is attached to a slight groove along the superior and external surfaces of the olecranon, and the rough surface of the ulna just beyond the lesser sigmoid notch, and with the orbicular ligament, a few fibres passing on to the neck of the radius. It is composed of decussating fibres, most of which pass vertically or obliquely downwards, a few taking a transverse course at the summit of the olecranon fossa where the ligament is usually thinnest. The internal portion (fig. 228) is thicker, stronger, and denser than either the anterior or posterior portions. It is triangular in form, its apex being attached to the anterior and under aspect of the internal condyle, and to the condyloid edge of