309 BRA CHIO-RA DIA LIS— TRICEPS Origin.—The whole of the lower three-fifths of the front surface of the humerus, with the exception of the small space on its inner aspect occupied by the coraco- brachialis and the impression upon the outer aspect for the deltoid muscle, upon either side of which it sends up two small pointed processes; (2) the front of the internal intermuscular septum; (3) a small portion of the upper part of the front of the external intermuscular septum above the point where it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve. Insertion.—The inner and lower part of the rough triangular impression upon the front of the coronoid process of the ulna. Structure.—The greater part of its origin is by fleshy fibres which converge upon a tendinous sheet which makes its appearance at first upon the anterior surface of the muscle, just above the level of the elbow-joint. This tendinous sheet receives the converging fleshy fibres upon its posterior aspect, and becomes gradually thicker until it forms a very strong tendon of insertion which is closely connected with the front of the anterior ligament of the elbow-joint. The lower and outer portion of the muscle is deejfly grooved by the brachio-radialis (supinator longus), so that it often looks like a separate muscle. Nerve-supply.—(1) From the external cord of the brachial plexus (through the sixth cervical nerve) by branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve which enter the anterior surface of the muscle near the inner border of its upper third; (2) from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh cervical nerve) by a small filament from the musculo-spiral nerve which enters the front of that part of the muscle which is concealed by the origin of the brachio-radialis (supin- ator longus). Action.—To flex the ulnar half of the forearm. Like the biceps, it will form a lever of the third order, but with much mechanical disadvantage on account of the proximity of its insertion to the axis of the elbow-joint. There will be, however, a proportional gain in speed and range of movement. Relations.—In front, the deep fascia on the outer side of the arm which separates it from the cephalic vein, the biceps, coraco-brachialis, deltoid, brachio- radialis (supinator longus), and extensor carpi radialis longior, the brachial vessels, median and musculo-spiral nerves; behind, the triceps and elbow-joint. Variations.—The brachialis anticus is sometimes divided into two heads by a continuation of the cleft between the two pointed processes above mentioned, or by a separation of a part of the outer half. Occasionally it gives off muscular slips to the radius or the fascia of the forearm, also to adjacent muscles such as the pronator teres, the brachio-radialis, and the extensor carpi radialis longior. 3. BRACHIO-RADIALIS The brachio-radialis (supinator longus) is described with the radial group of muscles (page 321). EXTENSORS OF THE FOREARM The extensor muscles are two in number—the triceps and the anconeus. 1. TRICEPS The triceps extensor cubiti—named from its three heads and its action upon the elbow or cubitus—forms a thick fusiform sheet wrapping round the posterior surface of the humerus in its whole length. Origin.—The long head arises from the lower edge of the glenoid cavity and the axillary border of the scapula for one inch (2-5 cm.) below it. The external head arises (1) from the posterior surface of the humerus above the musculo-spiral groove, reaching as far up as the base of the greater tuberosity and the insertion of the teres minor; (2) from the back of the external inter- muscular septum above the point where it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve.