564 THE ARTERIES Branches.—The middle sacral gives off:— (1) The fifth pair of lumbar arteries (sometimes). These are described with the lumbar arteries. (2) Lateral sacral branches, usually four in number. These are serially homologous with the intercostal and lumbar arteries given off by the aorta. They run more or less transversely outwards, and anastomose with the lateral sacral branches of the internal iliac artery. They give off small spinal branches, which pass through the sacral foramina, and supply the sacral canal and back of the sacrum. (3) Rectal or hsemorrhoidal branches pass forwards in the layers of the meso- rectum, to the rectum which they help to supply, and anastomose with the other hsemorrhoidal or rectal arteries. On the lower part of the middle sacral artery—the coccygeal part—there are often found small pouches or varicosities, which are believed by some to represent the rudiments of lateral coccygeal arteries, homologous to the intercostal, lumbar, and sacral arteries, given off from the aorta in these regions. The variations of this vessel are unimportant. (A) The most frequent perhaps is for it to come off from the back of the aorta a little above the bifurcation ; or (B) from one or other of the common iliacs ; or (C) as a common trunk with what are usually its branches, the fifth pair of lumbar arteries. (D) It sometimes gives off an accessory renal artery—a fact of inter- est, in that the kidneys occupy a lower position in the abdomen in some animals than in man. THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES The common iliac arteries must be regarded as the terminal branches of the abdominal aorta, unless the middle sacral and the artery of the tail in the lower animals are regarded as the continuation of the abdominal aorta. The common iliacs arise opposite the left side of the middle of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, at the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta, and, diverging from each other in the male at about an angle of 60°, and in the female at an angle of 68°, terminate opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation by bifurcating into the external iliac, which is continued along the brim of the pelvis to the lower limb, and into the internal iliac, which passes over the brim of the pelvis and descends into that cavity. Both arteries lie on the fifth lumbar vertebra, are covered by the peritoneum, and are crossed by the ureter, and in the female, in addition, by the ovarian arteries. The relations of the arteries differ slightly on the two sides, and may be con- sidered separately. The Right Common Iliac Artery The right common iliac measures about two inches in length (5 cm.), and is rather longer than the left, in consequence of the aorta bifurcating a little to the left of the median line. Relations.—In front it is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed by the right ureter a little before its bifurcation, by the ovarian artery in the female, by the termination of the ileum, by the terminal branches of the superior mesenteric artery, and by branches of the sympathetic nerve descending to the hypogastric plexus. Behind, it lies on the right common iliac vein, the end of the left common iliac vein, and the commencement of the inferior vena cava, which separate it from the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra? and their intervening disc, the psoas muscle, and the sympathetic nerve; whilst still deeper in the groove between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the psoas are the lumbo-sacral cord, the obturator nerve, and the ilio- lumbar artery. To the right side are the beginning of the inferior vena cava, the end of the right common iliac vein, and the psoas muscle, which, however, is separated from the artery by the inferior vena cava at its upper part. To the left side are the right common iliac vein, the termination of the left common iliac vein, and the hypogastric plexus.