THE MUSCLES 402 lateral half may be looked upon as a four-sided figure of which the upper boundary slopes backwards and downwards; the lower, backwards and upwards; while the long anterior boundary and short posterior boundary are vertical and parallel. The muscles contained in the parietes may be divided into vertical and transverse. The former, three in number, are situated two in front, and one behind; while the latter, also three in number, pass transversely, or with some obliquity, between the anterior and posterior boundaries of the space. The two lateral halves unite in front in a strong fibrous band called the linea alba, which stretches from the tip of the ensiform cartilage to the upper part of the symphysis pubis. It is partly formed by vertical fibres stretching between these two points, but chiefly by the interlacement of the transverse and oblique bands of fibrous tissue which pass between the aponeuroses of the muscles upon either side. In its lower two-fifths it is not more than one-eighth of an inch (3 mm.) broad; in its upper three-fifths it is broader, usually not less than a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) in width, but in some bodies it may be stretched to a much greater extent. At the junction of the lower two-fifths and upper three- fifths is the small fibrous ring of the umbilicus through which pass the remnants of the foetal vessels. Anterior Vertical Muscles These are two in number—the pyramidalis and rectus abdominis. 1. PYRAMIDALIS The pyramidalis (fig. 266)—named somewhat fancifully from its triangular shape—is a fan-shaped sheet of muscular fibre forming a right-angled triangle, of which the shortest side corresponds to the origin, and the other side containing the right angle to the linea alba, Origin.—(1) The front of the pubic crest; and (2) the fibrous structures which cover the front of the body of the os pubis and its symphysis. Insertion.—The linea alba at a point about half-way between the pubes and the umbilicus. Structure.—Arising by a short tendinous sheet, the fleshy fibres converge as they pass upwards. Those nearer to the middle line ascend vertically, while those which arise near the pubic spine pass obliquely upwards and inwards to the tendinous insertion of the muscle into the linea alba three or four inches (8 to 10 cm.) above the symphysis pubis. Nerve-supply.—From the eleventh and twelfth thoracic nerves and from the ilio-hypogastric branch of the lumbar plexus, through their terminal filaments which enter the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—By its contraction, it pulls upon the linea alba and so upon the lower end of the ensiform cartilage. It will therefore assist the rectus in flexion of the thorax upon the pelvis, or of the pelvis upon the thorax. It can also help feebly to compress the abdominal viscera. Relations.—Superficially, the aponeuroses of the transverse abdominal muscles; deeply, the rectus abdominis, from which it is separated by a thin fibrous lamella. Variations.—The height to which this muscle extends is variable. It is often absent on one or both sides ; or it may be double. 2. RECTUS ABDOMINIS The rectus abdominis (fig. 266)—named from its straight direction—is a strong ribbon-shaped muscle running vertically on either side of the linea alba from the pubes to the ensiform and adjacent costal cartilages. Origin.—By two tendons: (1) the larger or outer head from the whole of the crest of the pubes; (2) the inner head crosses the middle line of the body, and arises from the fibrous structures lying in front of the symphysis.