610 THE VEINS The coronary sinus is situated at the back of theTieart, in the groove between the left auricle and left ventricle. It measures about an inch in length. Its opening into the auricle is guarded by the so-called Thebesian or coronary valve. It receives the following tributaries: (1) The great coronary or cardiac vein, of which it appears to be the large and dilated end; (2) the posterior cardiac or pos- terior interventricular vein; (3) the right auricular vein; and (4) the oblique vein. (1) The great coronary or cardiac vein is formed by the union of (a) the anterior interventricular vein, which runs upwards from the apex of the heart, in the groove between the right and left ventricles, in company with the artery of that name; with (6) the left auricular vein, which returns the blood from the left auricle. The vein thus formed then runs round the left side of the heart, in the groove between the left auricle and left ventricle, and terminates in the coronary sinus at the spot where the latter is joined by the oblique vein. Its entrance into the sinus is guarded by a double valve. It receives (c) the left marginal vein or veins, and branches from both ventricles, especially the left. The left marginal vein runs with the artery of that name over the surface of the left ventricle, along the left margin of the heart. It receives tributaries from the left ventricle, and terminates in the great coronary vein. (2) The posterior cardiac, middle cardiac, or posterior interventricular vein accompanies the posterior interventricular artery upwards, from the apex of the heart in the posterior interventricular groove. It ends in the coronary sinus, just before the termination of the latter in the right auricle. It receives tributaries from the posterior surface of both ventricles, and is guarded by a valve .where it joins the coronary sinus. Two or three small veins (posterior cardiac, or smaller posterior cardiac) run upwards from the back of the left ventricle, and open into the coronary sinus by separate orifices guarded by valves. (3) The right auricular, right coronary, or small coronary vein, runs in the right auriculo-ventricular groove, and terminates in the coronary sinus just before the entrance of that sinus into the auricle. It is joined by the right marginal vein and by the preventricular or smaller anterior cardiac vein or veins. (4) The oblique vein—the greater part of which is often represented merely by a delicate fibrous cord—runs across the back part of the left auricle, in the vestigial fold of the pericardium to the coronary sinus. This vein, with the coronary sinus,