ABDOMINAL PARIETES AND MUSCLES 401 increase greatly the capacity of the sides of the thoracic cavity. At the same time the abdominal viscera are driven downwards, and as the front part of the parietes is the most yielding, they are also displaced forwards, so as to cause a greater prominence of this part of the abdomen. In the expulsive efforts of defecation and parturition, after the diaphragm has first contracted in a deep inspiration, and the glottis has been closed so as to prevent the escape of air from the chest, the abdominal muscles are able to contract with full effect upon, the viscera, which have been pressed down by the previous descent of the diaphragm. The lower six ribs are slightly elevated by the diaphragm, and the hypochondria somewhat dilated, this latter movement being due to the forward and outward pressure of the depressed viscera. Relations.—Above lie the pleurae and pericardium, the heart and the lungs. Below are the peritoneum, the liver with its ligaments, the stomach, the spleen, pancreas, kidneys, and suprarenal capsules. The dome-shaped upper convex sur- face rises higher upon the right than the left side. On the right side, being raised by the liver, it reaches to the level of the junction of the fifth costal cartilage with the sternum, and on the left side only to the level of the junction of the sixth costal cartilage. Variations.—The oesophageal opening has been found in the right eras, instead of being surrounded by decussating fibres from both crura. The sternal portion of the muscle is not uufrequently absent. THE ABDOMINAL PARIETES The superficial fascia covering the walls of the abdomen is continuous with that of the thorax and lower limbs, and is usually divided into two layers. The first layer is well provided with fat, which in many individuals attains to a considerable thickness, especially in the lower part of the anterior wall. The second or deep layer (Scarpa's fascia) is of a more membranous character and contains a quantity of elastic fibres. Near the groin it is separated from the more superficial layer by blood-vessels and lymphatic glands. Upon its deeper surface it is loosely connected with the deep fascia which invests the external oblique muscle; but it is closely blended with the linea alba, the fibrous structures in front of the pubic bones, the fascia lata immediately below Poupart's ligament, and the crest of the ilium. Both layers are continued downwards upon the external genital organs. In the male they lose their fat and blend with the suspensory ligament of the penis, the fascia covering that organ, and the dartos and septum of the scrotum. In the female they are continuous with the superficial fascia of the vulva. THE ABDOMINAL MUSCLES The muscular portion of the abdominal wall forms a lozenge-shaped figure of which the vertical diagonal extends from the ensiform process to the symphysis pubis, while the transverse encircles the abdomen from tip to tip of the transverse processes of the third lumbar vertebra. The boundaries of this muscular wall are formed, above by the costal cartilages of the six lower ribs; behind, by the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra?; below, by the crests of the ilia and the pubes. More accurately, each