382 THE MUSCLES 2. THE FOUR LUMBRICALES The four lumbricales—named from their shape (lumbricus = an earthworm)— are, like those in the palm, four small fusiform muscles. Origin.—The first, from the inner border of the innermost tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, from the point of division of the main tendon for about an inch (2-5 cm.) forwards; the other three, from the adjacent surfaces of the first and second, the second and third, and the third and fourth tendons of the flexor longus digitorum on their plantar aspect. Insertion.—The inner border of the expansion of the extensor longus digitorum tendon upon the back of the first phalanx of each of the four outer toes. Structure.—The origin of the muscle is entirely fleshy. It ends in a small rounded tendon a short distance above the web of the toes. This tendon runs forwards and upwards upon the inner side of its toe, above the superficial transverse ligament of the toes and beneath the deep transverse ligament of the metatarsus, to the side of the expansion of the extensor tendon. Nerve-supply.—The innermost is supplied by the internal plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve, by filaments which enter the back part of the lower surface of the muscle near its inner border; the three outer, by the external plantar nerve, by filaments which enter the deep part of each muscle near its outer border. Action.—(1) To flex the first phalanx of the toe; (2) to straighten the second and third phalanges. (3) The first will abduct the second toe from the axis passing through it, which is looked upon as the middle line of the foot. The three others will adduct. The lumbricales will be able to act upon the first phalanges, even when the second and third have been flexed by means of their special flexors. The chief advantage derived from the simultaneous extension of the two terminal phalanges and the flexion of the first phalanx is the application of the whole length of the toe to the ground in walking; otherwise there would be a strong tendency to the flexion of the phalanges of the toes, which would prevent the proper appli- cation of the soft plantar aspect of the ungual phalanx to the ground. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor brevis digitorum. Deeply, the flexor longus digitorum tendons, the transversalis pedis, and the interossei. Third Layer The third layer consists of four muscles—the flexor brevis hallucis, the adductor hallucis, the transversus pedis, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. 1. FLEXOR BREVIS HALLUCIS The flexor brevis hallucis, or flexor brevis pollicis pedis—named from its action, and its size in comparison with the other flexor of the great toe—is a thick triangular sheet with a forked insertion. Origin.—(1) The plantar ligaments and the continuations of the tibialis posticus tendon in the middle of the sole; (2) the inner part of the under surface of the cuboid bone. Insertion.—The inner and outer borders of the plantar aspect of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Structure.—Arising fibrous by a pointed process in the middle of the sole, the fibres diverge as they pass forwards and slightly inwards, and form two fleshy bundles of equal size, which are succeeded by short tendons. In each tendon is contained a sesamoid bone of ovoid shape about three-eighths of an inch (1 cm.) in the long antero-posterior diameter, and a quarter of an inch (7 mm.) from side to side, with a cartilaginous articular facet upon the upper surface which plays upon the lower surface of the condyles of the first metatarsal bone. At their insertion