INFERIOR VENA CAVA 631 these capillaries arise the hepatic veins which open into the inferior vena cava as that vessel grooves the under surface of the liver. Of the other visceral veins, both renals, the right capsular, and the right spermatic or ovarian open directly into the inferior vena cava; whilst the left capsular and left spermatic or ovarian only join that vessel indirectly through the left renal. Two of the superficial veins of the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall, the superficial epigastric and superficial circumflex iliac, enter the long saphenous vein; and two of the deep veins from the like situation, the deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac, enter the external iliac vein. The blood in these vessels, however, can flow upwards as well as in the normally downward direction. In obstruction of the inferior vena cava they become greatly enlarged, and form, with the superior epigastric vein and with other superficial veins of the thorax with which they anastomose, one of the chief channels for the return of the blood from the lower limbs. The veins of the pelvis, which receive the veins from the perinaeum and gluteal region, join the internal iliac vein. THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA The inferior or ascending vena cava (fig. 391) is the large vessel which returns the blood from the lower extremities and the abdomen and pelvis. It is formed by the confluence of the right and left common iliac veins opposite the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, ascends in front of the lumbar vertebrae to the right of the abdominal aorta, passes through the caval opening in the diaphragm, and ends in the lower and back part of the right auricle of the heart on a level with the lower border of the ninth thoracic vertebra. At its origin it lies behind the right common iliac artery on a plane posterior to the aorta, but as it ascends it passes slightly forward and to the right, getting on a plane anterior to the aorta, and becoming separated from that artery by the right crus of the diaphragm and the lobulus Spigelii of the liver. Whilst in contact with the liver it lies in a deep groove on the hinder surface of that organ, the groove being often converted into a distinct canal by a thin portion of the hepatic substance bridging across the groove. As it passes through the diaphragm its walls are attached to the tendinous margins of the caval opening, and are thus held apart when the muscle contracts. On the thoracic side of the diaphragm it lies for about half an inch within the pericar- dium, the serous layer of that membrane being reflected over it. Relations.—In front it is covered by the peritoneum, and crossed by the right spermatic artery, branches of the aortic plexus of the sympathetic, the transverse colon, the root of the mesentery, the duodenum, the head of the pancreas, the portal vein, and the liver. The median group of the lumbar lymphatic glands are also in front of it below, and at its commencement the right common iliac artery rests upon it. Behind, it lies on the lumbar vertebras, the right lumbar arteries, the right renal artery, the right semilunar ganglion, and the right crus of the diaphragm. To the right are the peritoneum, liver, and psoas muscle. To the left is the aorta, and higher up the right crus of the diaphragm. Tributaries.—The inferior vena cava receives the following veins:—(1) the renal veins; (2) the right suprarenal vein; (3) the right spermatic or (4) the right ovarian vein; (5) the lumbar veins; (6) the inferior phrenic veins; (7) the hepatic veins; and (8) the right and left common iliac veins. (1) The renal or emulgent veins return the blood from the kidneys. They are short but thick trunks, and open into the vena cava nearly at right angles to that vessel. The vein on the left side, like the kidney, is a little higher than on the right, and is also longer, in consequence of its having to cross the aorta. The comparative shortness of the right renal vein should be borne in mind in the operation of nephrectomy, since, if too much traction is made on the pedicle, not only the vein, but a portion of the vena cava may be drawn into the ligature, as shown in a specimen in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum. Each vein lies in