THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 698 covers the choroid plexus. When this epithelium is torn through and the choroid plexus pushed forwards, the fascia dentata is exposed; the latter structure is placed above the dentate fissure, between the fimbria and the uncinate gyrus. The choroid plexuses are vascular fringes formed by an infolding of the pia mater in the region of the so-called great transverse fissure. They extend from the termination of the descending cornua to the foramina of Monro, through which they disappear. The epithelial lining of the ventricle passes from the thin (appar- ently free) edge of the fimbria over the choroid plexus to the taenia semicircularis. This epithelium, which is the morphological wall of the cornu, excludes the choroid plexus (strictly speaking) from the ventricular cavity. The foramina of Monro are the apertures through which the lateral ventricles communicate with the third ventricle, forming at their communication a Y-shaped passage, the foramen commune anterius, by means of which the lateral ventricles Fig. 418.—A Dissection showing the Free oe Intraventricular Portion of the Cau- date Nucleus. The Mesial and Tentorial Surfaces of the Hemisphere are also SHOWN. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) EXTRA VENTRICULAR PART SULCUS OF OPTIC THALAMUS CHOROIDEUS DENTATE CORPUS GENICULATUM UNCUS FISSURE INTERNUM of opposite sides communicate with one another. The choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles are continuous with one another through this passage. Each foramen of Monro is crescentic in outline, and is bounded in front and above by the anterior pillars of the fornix; below and behind by the anterior extremity of the optic thalamus; and behind by the reflexions of epithelium from the fornix and optic thalamus on to the choroid plexus. The fascia dentata, or dentate convolution, is the free edge of the grey matter of the hemisphere, and derives its name from its characteristically notched or indented appearance. It is placed above the dentate fissure, and follows this fissure upwards towards the splenium of the corpus callosum, where it becomes continuous with the fasciola cinerea. The fasciola cinerea is a grey lamina resembling the fascia dentata but with a smooth margin. It ends just above the splenium of the corpus callosum.