SOLAR PLEXUS S35 The fibres which pass to the cardiac plexuses are medullated and non-medullated; the former are inhibitory, the latter motor. The inhibitory fibres leave the central nervous system by the spinal accessory and vagus nerves, the motor fibres by the roots of the dorsal nerves. SOLAR PLEXUS The solar plexus is placed in front of the commencement of the abdominal aorta. It is the largest of the prevertebral plexuses, and is formed by the two semilunar ganglia, and by a number of interlacing nerve-cords which surround the ganglia. Each semilunar ganglion is placed at the side of the cceliac axis, embrac- ing the artery in its concavity. The upper and the lower extremities of the ganglia of opposite sides are connected to one another by nerve-cords, above and below the artery. In this manner the cceliac axis is surrounded by a neuro-ganglionic collar. From this neuro-ganglionic collar a number of branches arise which are joined by branches from the right vagus and by both small splanchnic nerves, and in this manner the solar plexus is formed. From the solar plexus a number of nerves arise which accompany the abdominal aorta and its branches, forming secondary plexuses, which take their names from the arteries they accompany. Semilunar ganglia.—These are a pair of reddish-grey, irregularly shaped bodies which rest on the crura of the diaphragm, close to the cceliac axis. The great splanchnic nerve on each side, after piercing the crus of the diaphragm, enters the outer, or convex, side of the corresponding ganglion. Coeliac plexus.—The cceliac plexus surrounds the cceliac axis, and divides into splenic, hepatic, and coronary plexuses. The splenic plexus, after receiving a communication from the right pneumo- gastric nerve, accompanies the splenic artery to the spleen. It gives off pancreatic and left gastro-epiploic plexuses. The hepatic plexus is joined, near the pyloric end of the stomach, by branches from the left pneumogastric, and accompanies the hepatic artery to the liver, where it divides into right and left hepatic plexuses. Previous to its division, it gives off pyloric, right gastro-epiploic, and pancreatico-duodenal plexuses. From the right hepatic plexus a cystic plexus is furnished to the gall-bladder. The coronary plexus follows the lesser curvature of the stomach, proceeding from left to right. In this course it is joined by branches from the left pneumo- gastric, and, after giving off numerous twigs to the stomach, ends, near the pjdorus, by joining the pyloric plexus. The diaphragmatic plexuses arise from the upper extremities of the semilunar ganglia, and accompany the diaphragmatic arteries to the under surface of the diaphragm. On the right side a communication is effected with the phrenic nerve, a small ganglion (ganglion diaphragmaticum) being formed at the point of com- munication. ■* The suprarenal plexuses are derived, in part from the diaphragmatic, in part from the solar, and in part from the renal plexuses; they are distributed chiefly to the medullary portions of the suprarenal bodies. The renal plexuses are formed by branches of the solar and aortic plexuses, and are joined posteriorly by the smallest splanchnic nerves. Each renal plexus surrounds the corresponding renal artery; it contains groups of ganglion cells and enters the hilum of the kidney, where it subdivides in the fatty tissue which occu- pies the sinus, and enters the substance of the kidney with the blood-vessels. The superior mesenteric plexus is of large size, and is remarkable for the comparatively white colour of the nerves whicb compose it. It is derived from the solar plexus, and, after emerging from under cover of the pancreas, closely surrounds the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. In this situation a few ganglia (ganglia mesenterica) are formed. Having given off branches, which accompany the colica media, colica dextra, and ileo-colic arteries, the greater part of the plexus enters the mesentery, where the nerves—no longer closely following the blood-vessels, spread out between the layers of the mesentery, and eventually reach the small intestine. The aortic plexus is in the form of two vast networks of nerves which are