323 EXTENSOR CARPI RAD TALIS BREVIOR obliquity of the tendon. This obliquity (Introduction, page 286) will, however, add speed and range of movement, and at the same time it will assist in drawing the articular surfaces of the elbow together, and so give strength to the joint. If the forearm be fully supinated, the contraction of the brachio-radialis will cause some pronation; and it is only when the forearm is in the position of full pronation that it will produce a slight supination. It is therefore incorrect to describe the muscle as a supinator. Relations.—In the upper arm, it has at its inner side the brachialis anticus, in which it forms a deep groove, and the musculo-spiral nerve and superior pro- funda vessels. Outside and behind lies the inner head of the triceps. Below, it rests on the upper border of the extensor carpi radialis longior. In the forearm it is covered, above by the deep fascia and superficial veins; below, by the extensor ossis metacarpi and the extensor brevis pollicis. Beneath it lie the extensor carpi radialis longior, the supinator brevis, the pronator radii teres, the flexor sublimis digitorum, the flexor longus pollicis, and the radial vessels and nerve. Variations.—The brachio-radialis is sometimes absent. It may receive a slip from the brachialis anticus. It may give slips to various parts of the radius, to the carpal bones on the radial side of the hand, to the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior, the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the flexor longus pollicis, or to the supinator brevis muscle. 2. EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR The extensor carpi radialis longior—named from its action, position, and length in comparison with its fellow extensor—is a narrow fusiform sheet. Origin.—(1) The lower third of the external condylar ridge; (2) the front of the external intermuscular septum; (3) the front of the common tendon by which the extensors at the back of the forearm arise from the external condyle. Insertion.—The back of the base of the second metacarpal bone near its radial border. Structure.—Arising by fleshy fibres, this muscle has a somewhat pennifonn arrangement. Its tendon is first seen near the outer border on the deep surface of the muscle, and becomes free at the junction of the middle and upper thirds of the forearm. It lies upon and in close association with the tendon of the short extensor, and passes through the second compartment in the posterior annular ligament to its insertion upon the metacarpal bone. Its surfaces, like those of the preceding muscle, are at first directed outwards and inwards, and afterwards for- wards and backwards. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the sixth cervical nerve), by a branch from the musculo-spiral nerve which enters the muscle at the upper part of its deep surface. Action.—(1) To extend the wrist; including under this appellation the carpo- metacarpal, intercarpal, and radio-carpal joints. It is also a slight abductor of these joints. When the fingers have to be bent by the long flexors, it steadies the carpus so as to limit the action of the flexors to the phalanges. (2) It has also some influence in flexion of the elbow-joint. Relations.—In the arm, it lies between the brachialis anticus and the triceps, and it is covered by the brachio-radialis. In the forearm, it overlies the short radial extensor and wrist-joint, while it lies beneath the brachio-radialis and the extensors of the thumb. Variations.—The extensor carpi radialis longior may be united with the brevior. It may give tendinous slips to the bases of the first or third metacarpal bones, or to the trapezium ; or a slip may join the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, or some of the interossei. 3. EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR The extensor carpi radialis brevior—named for similar reasons to those which give its name to the preceding muscle—is also flat and fusiform. Origin.—(1) The common tendon attached to the external condyle; (2) the