474 THE ARTERIES the other vessel is then correspondingly small, (e) An extra coronary artery may arise from the pulmonary artery. II. From the transverse part of the aortic arch are given off the innominate, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian arteries. The innominate and left carotid arise close together—-indeed, so close that, when seen from the interior of the aorta, the orifices appear merety separated by a thin septum. The left subclavian arises a little less close to the left carotid. THE INNOMINATE ARTERY The innominate or brachio-cephalic artery (fig. 321), the largest branch of the arch of the aorta, extends from near the commencement of the transverse por- Fig. 327.—Scheme of the Relations of the Innominate Aktery. (Walsham.) I, a little above origin ; II, a little below bifurcation. I CARDIAC NERVE RIGHT PNEVUO- GASTRIC NERVE Innominate after;/ RIGHT LUNG AND PLEURA Rir/ht innominate rein, ili rided transversely at its junction with the left innominate vein Left common carotid artery Inferior thyroid vein Inferior thyroid vein Left innominate vein STERNUM II RIGHT LUNG AND PLEURA RIGHT PNEUMO- GASTRIC NERVE Right innominate vein Innominate artery CARDIAC NERVES Left common carotid artery Inferior thyroid vein Right sterno-hyoid and Right sterno-thyroid muscles tion, upwards and a little forwards and to the right, as high as the upper limit of the right sterno-clavicular joint where it bifurcates into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. It lies obliquely in front of the trachea, and measures from an inch and a half to two inches in length (about 4 cm.). Relations.—In front of the artery (fig. 327) are the manubrium, the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the right sterno-clavicular joint and the remains of the thymus gland. The left innominate vein crosses the root of the vessel, and the inferior thyroid veins descend obliquely over it to end in the left innominate vein. The inferior cervical cardiac branches of the right pneumo- gastric pass in front of it on their way to the deep cardiac plexus. Behind, it lies on the trachea, crossing that tube obliquely from left to right, and coming into contact above with the right pleura. To the right side are the right innominate vein, the right pneumogastric nerve, and the pleura.