230 THE ARTICULATIONS (a) The Superior Radioulnar Joint Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Trochoides. The bones which enter into this joint are, the ulna by its lesser sigmoid cavity, and the radius by the smooth vertical border or rim on its head. There is but one ligament special to the joint, viz.:— Orbicular. The orbicular ligament consists of bands of strong fibres, somewhat thicker than the capsule of the elbow-joint, which encircle the head of the radius, retaining it against the side of the ulna. The bulk of these fibres forms about three-fourths of a circle, and they are attached to the anterior and posterior margins of the lesser sigmoid cavity; some few are continued round below the lesser sigmoid cavity, and form a complete ligamentous circle. The ligament is inseparably connected along its upper edge and external (i.e. its non-articular) surface with the anterior, posterior, and external portions of the capsule of the elbow, a few of the fibres of these portions, especially of the external, descending Fig. 230.—Orbicular Ligament. (The head of the radius removed to show the membranous connection of this ligament with the radius.) to be attached to the neck of the radius. The lower part of the articulation is covered in by a thin independent membranous layer, which passes from the lower edge of the orbicular ligament to the neck of the radius, strengthened on the outer side by those fibres passing down from the capsule. They are loose enough to allow the bone to rotate upon its own axis (fig. 230). The synovial membrane is the same as that of the elbow, and, after lining the orbicular ligament, passes on to the neck of the radius, and thence up to the articular cartilage. The arterial and nerve-supply are the same as those to the outer part of the elbow-joint. (b) The Mid Radio-ulnar Union There are two interosseous ligaments which pass between the shafts of the bones and unite them firmly together, viz.:— Oblique ligament. Interosseous membrane. The oblique ligament (figs. 228 and 230 A) is a fairly strong, narrow band, which passes from the lower end of the rough outer border of the coronoid process,