THE SKELETON 38 notch downwards, to the middle of the meatus. This furrow (squamo-mastoid) is often dotted with holes, and represents the line of union of squamosal and petrosal. The mastoid process gives attachment to the sterno-mastoid, splenitis capitis, trachelo- mastoid, occipito-frontalis, and retrahens aurem muscles. The tympanum is hidden by the tympanic plate, which extends downwards from the Glaserian fissure to form the vaginal process. Anteriorly it extends forwards and ankyloses with the outer wall of the carotid canal. The Glaserian fissure separates it from the squamosal. This fissure transmits the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and lodges the slender process of the malleus. A narrow subdivision of this fissure, canal of Huguier, is traversed by the chorda tympani nerve. The tympanic plate forms the anterior, lower, and part of the posterior walls of the external auditory meatus. It is limited poster- iorly by the auricular fissure, through which the auricular twig of the vagus nerve issues. The external auditory meatus assumes the form of an elliptical bony tube. Its outer margin is rough and gives attachment to the cartilaginous portion of the pinna. Between the posterior edge of the meatus and the mastoid process is the auricular fissure. The tympanic orifice of the meatus is smooth, and presents a well-marked groove for the tympanic membrane. This is very conspicuous in young bones. The direction of the meatus is somewhat oblique. In children, and occasionally in adults, a circular opening exists in the anterior wall of the meatus (fig. 53). Articulations.—The temporal bone articulates with the occipital, parietal, sphenoid, malar, and by a movable joint with the mandible. Occasionally the squamosal presents a process which articulates with the frontal. A fronto- squamosal suture is common in the skulls of the lower races of men, and is normal in the skulls of the chimpanzee, gorilla, and gibbon. The muscles connected with the temporal bone are:— To the mastoid process Sterno-mastoid. Splenius capitis. Trachelo-mastoid. Digastric. Occipito-frontalis. Attrahens aurem. Retrahens aurem. Attollens aurem.