POSTERIOR DIVISIONS OF SPINAL NERVES 779 posterior, particularly in the case of the upper sacral nerves. The posterior primary divisions are distributed to the integument of the occiput, posterior aspect of the neck, of the back, and of the greater part of the gluteal region. They also supply the muscles of the posterior part of the neck and the muscles of the back, with the exception of such of the posterior cervical and dorsal muscles as are connected with the superior extremity, the serrati postici, and the levatores costarum. The anterior primary divisions may be broadly stated to supply the anterior surface of the body from the level of the chin downwards, and also the limbs. Each anterior division is connected with the sympathetic system by rami communi- cantes. The anterior divisions contrast forcibly with the posterior divisions in the great size that they attain to in the lower cervical and lumbo-sacral regions. In these regions they communicate with one another to form plexuses, from which a number of branches are given off to supply the limbs. POSTERIOR PEIMARY DIVISIONS The posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves are, with the exception of the first and second cervical nerves, smaller than the anterior divisions. With the exception of the first cervical, the fourth and fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerves, each nerve divides shortly after its commencement into an internal and an external branch. CERVICAL NERVES.—-The posterior divisions of the first and second cervical require separate description. The third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves are of small size. They pass backwards at the outer border of the semispinalis colli, and divide into internal and external branches. The internal branches pass between the semispinalis colli and the complexus, giving twigs to both these muscles and to the multifidus spina?. They then pass between the complexus muscle and the ligamentum nucha?, pierce the origin of the trapezius, and are distributed to the integument of the back of the neck. As they enter the fascia? they are directed upwards and outwards. The branch from the third nerve is directed nearly vertically upwards, and is called the third or smallest occipital nerve. It communicates with the great occipital nerve and reaches the integument of the occiput. The external branches are distributed to the trachelo-mastoid, the cervicalis ascendens, the transversalis colli, and to the splenius. The internal branches of the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves pass under cover of the semispinalis colli, and end in that muscle and in the adjacent part of the multifidus spina?. The external branches are distributed to the com- plexus, splenius, cervicalis ascendens, and transversalis colli muscles. The posterior primary division of the first cervical nerve passes backwards between the posterior arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery, and traverses the fatty tissue which occupies the triangular space bounded by the obliquus superior, the obliquus inferior, and the rectus capitis posticus major. It gives a branch to each of these three muscles, and a twig which crosses the superficial surface of the rectus capitis posticus major to reach the rectus capitis posticus minor. Another twig forms a communicating loop with the great occipital nerve on the posterior surface of the obliquus inferior. A branch is also furnished to the conqjlexus. In a few cases it gives a cutaneous twig to the back of the occiput. The posterior division of the second cervical nerve divides into a small external and a very large internal branch. The external branch gives a twig to the obliquus inferior, and ends in the complexus and trachelo-mastoid muscles. The internal branch is the great occipital nerve. It gives off communicating branches which pass upwards and downwards, forming loops with the first and third cervical nerves. In this manner a small plexus (posterior cervical plexus of Cruveilhier) is formed. The great occipital nerve is then directed upwards, crossing the trian- gular space described in connection with the first nerve, and being covered by the ?omplexus. It gives one or two twigs to the latter muscle, and then pierces it to 'each the deep surface of the trapezius. It pierces the outer border of the trape-