1105 THE NECK drawn from the cricoid cartilages to the centre of the clavicle. The lowest cord (eighth cervical) is just above and behind the subclavian artery. Collateral circulation after ligature of the common carotid (fig. 677).— This takes place by means of (1) the free communication which exists between the opposite carotids, both without and within the cranium; and (2) by enlargement of the branches of the subclavian artery on the same side as that on which the carotid has been tied. Thus, outside the cranium, the superior and inferior thyroids are the chief vessels employed (fig. 677). Within the cranium the vertebral replaces the internal carotid. Collateral circulation after ligature of the second and third parts of the subclavian (fig. 677).—Here the following three sets of vessels are those chiefly employed: The suprascapular, the posterior j scapular, j The superior intercostal, the aortic ~\ intercostals, and the internal > mammary, ) Numerous unnamed branches") passing through the axilla from > branches of the subclavian, ) Deep cervical fascia.—The arrangement of this must be remembered—(a) above, and (b) below, the hyoid bone. The latter is far the more important. (a) Arrangement above the hyoid bone.—Here two chief layers, superficial f The acromio-thoracic, infra- and with < subscapular, and dorsalis scap- ( ulse. with i ^e ^on^ thoracic and scapular { arteries. with Branches of the axillary. Fig. 678.—Diagram of the Layers of the Deep Cervical Fascia in an Antero- posterior Section opposite to the Sternum. (Tillaux.) (The prevertebral layer can be seen passing down in front of the lougus colli.) and deep, can be made out:—(i) The superficial, traced upwards from the hyoid bone, encloses the submaxillary gland, passing over the mylo-hyoid, and, ascending, gives off the masseteric and parotid fascia, and is attached to the lower border of the zygoma, (ii) The deeper layer, which forms the stylo-mandibular ligament, is important in its power of checking over-action of the external pterygoid, (b) Below the hyoid bone.—The importance of the fascia here is infinitelv greater. 70