FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT 377 Nerve-supply.—From the posterior tibial, which sends branches forwards to the back of the muscle in the upper third of the leg. Action.—(1) To adduct the front of the foot; (2) to invert the sole; (3) to extend the ankle—the last of these movements is somewhat limited; (4) to support the longitudinal arch of the foot—first, by drawing backwards the lower part of the scaphoid, and so preventing the descent of the head of the astragalus between the scaphoid and calcaneum, and secondly by its traction upon the other tarsal bones into which the secondary offsets of its tendon are inserted. Relations.—Superficially, the soleus and third layer of muscles of the leg, the posterior tibial and peroneal vessels and the posterior tibial nerve above; in the sole the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum and the abductor hallucis; deeply, the ankle-joint and inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The anterior tibial vessels pass through a notch at the upper extremity of the muscle, between its tibial and fibular origins. THE FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT The plantar fascia is, like the corresponding fascia in the palm, very strong, and is divided into three parts. The central part, which is the strongest, arises from the under surface of the calcaneum at the back of the tubercles. It is triangular, the apex being attached behind, and the expanded base dividing near the heads of the metatarsal bones into five divisions, one for each of the toes. Each division forms an arch over the tendons entering the toe, and is continuous with the ligamentum vaginale of the theca. The sides of the arch pass upwards to be attached to the deep transverse ligament which connects the heads of the meta- tarsal bones, and to the lateral ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal joints. The under surface of the fascia is attached to the deep surface of the skin by small fibrous bands which form the walls of compartments containing pellets of fat. These fibrous connections give firmness to the skin of the sole and prevent it from being moved about upon the subjacent fascia. The borders of the central portion of the plantar fascia are continued upwards into the sole by the internal and external intermuscular septa, which are attached above to the fibrous structures on the under surfaces of the tarsal bones. The inner portion, which is the thinnest division of the plantar fascia, is attached behind to the inner border of the great tubercle of the calcaneum and to the lower border of the internal annular ligament. It is inserted in front upon the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and above it becomes continuous with the deep fascia covering the instep. The ex- ternal portion is very thick, and arises from the outer border of the lesser tubercle of the calcaneum and the lower border of the external annular ligament. It ter- minates in front in the base of the first phalanx of the little toe, and at its inner border it blends with the central portion of the plantar fascia, where it is joined by the external intermuscular septum; upon its outer border it is closely connected with the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and it is continuous with the deep fascia covering the instep. In the web between the toes some thin transverse fibres are found, the super- ficial transverse ligament of the toes. They bridge over part of the interval between the five slips into which the front part of the central division of the plantar fascia breaks up. The muscles and tendons in the sole of the foot are divided into four layers. The first layer consists of three muscles, which correspond in their position to the three compartments formed by the plantar fascia and the two intermuscular septa, viz. the abductor hallucis, the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor minimi digiti.