1037 THE URETHRA degree. But under the test of catheterism the length of the canal is undoubtedly greater, and may reach seven or eight inches (18-20 cm.) or even more, owing to the traction upon the penis which accompanies the operation. The canal may be greatly lengthened also by senile hypertrophy of the prostate, which carries the internal meatus upwards towards the level of the top of the symphysis. The diameters of the passage are scarcely capable of accurate measurement. In the ordinary condition it is represented by a fissure, and its limits of safe dilata- biiity can only be approximately calculated. Otis's investigations show that these limits are wider than was formerly believed to be the case, and he has endeavoured to establish as a law that there is a ratio between the maximum circum- ference of the canal and that of the penis, of four to nine. Thus a penis having in its ordinary state a circumference of thirty-six lines should possess a urethra capable of admitting an instrument of sixteen lines. The sources of fallacy in such an observation are not inconsiderable, but they do not destroy its value as a practical guide to the surgeon. The prostatic portion is about an inch and a quarter (3 cm.) in length, wider in the middle than at the two extremities, and almost perpendicular in direction, with a slight inclination downwards and forwards at its lower end. Its anterior wall is concave both in longitudinal and transverse sections, and is studded with the orifices of small mucous follicles; the posterior wall presents a longitudinal ridge called the colliculus seminalis or verumontanum, highest near the middle and gradually diminishing above and below. A little above the centre of the col- liculus may be seen a rather large opening which leads to a cul-de-sac of especial interest for the morphologist, the sinus pocularis or uterus masculinus, and on the lateral margins of the orifice of the sinus are seen two small puncta, one on each side, the openings of the ejaculatory ducts. The sinus pocularis and ducts may be traced upwards and backwards through the prostatic cleft and behind the sphincteric fibres which constitute the prostatic bar or middle lobe of the prostate. In consequence of the presence of the colliculus the urethral fissure appears on horizontal section as a U-shaped curve with forward convexity. The recesses cor- responding to the extremities of the U are sometimes called the prostatic sinuses, and into these open the orifices of the posterior and lateral prostatic glands. The mucous membrane of the prostatic urethra is lined with a laminated epithe- lium. Beneath this is a layer of erectile tissue which constitutes the principal element of the colliculus, and is in turn supported by a layer of longitudinal muscle. The sinus pocularis is believed to be the homologue of the uterus. It is about half an inch in length, and terminates by a blind, slightly dilated extremity. Its walls consist of connective tissue intermingled with smooth muscular fibres, and covered with laminated epithelium. It contains a few simple or compound glands, in which small concretions are occasionally found. The membranous portion, bounded above and below by the superior and inferior triangular ligaments, is about half an inch (12 mm.) in length; it is inclined downwards and somewhat forwards, and lies about an inch (25 mm. ) be- hind the subpubic ligament, from which it is separated by the muscular fibres of the deep transversus perinsei and a plexus of veins. It is closely related on either side to Cowper's glands. The mucous membrane resembles that of the prostatic urethra in its epithelium and erectile layer and muscularis, but surrounding these structures is a strong annu- lar band of unstriped muscle continuous with the fibres of the prostate and forming a sphincter of considerable power. This in turn is supported by the striated fibres of the deep transversus perinari. The glands of the mucous membrane, simple and racemose, form suite with those of the anterior wall of the prostatic canal. The spongy portion extending to the extremity of the penis presents two dila- tations with an intermediate portion of narrow but uniform dimensions. The pos- terior expansion (pars bulbosa) lies in the bulb, and is about an inch (25 mm.) in length; the anterior (fossa navicularis) is of nearly the same extent, and is situated within the glans. The penile angle, formed where the flaccid organ falls from the point of suspension at the pubic region, lies about two inches (5 cm.) in front of the superficial triangular ligament; and the portion of the canal behind this is almost horizontal in direction, but with a slight upward concavity (fig. 617).