139 THE HIP-BONE The ilium has two surfaces: the external surface, or dorsum, is convex in its general contour. It is limited superiorly by the semicircular crest, and is crossed by the three gluteal ridges. The superior gluteal ridge commences at the crest about 5 cm. (2") from its posterior termination, and passes downwards to the middle of the greater sciatic (ilio-sciatic) notch. The space included between this ridge and the crest gives origin to the gluteus maximus, and at its lower part to a few fibres of the piriformis. The middle gluteal ridge extends from the crest 2-5 cm. (1") behind its anterior extremity, and passes across the dorsum to terminate near the posterior end of the superior gluteal ridge, at the greater sciatic notch. The surface of bone between this ridge and the crest is for the origin of the gluteus medius. The inferior gluteal ridge begins in the notch separating the anterior iliac spines, and terminates posteriorly in the middle of the greater sciatic notch. The space between the middle and inferior ridges gives origin to the gluteus minimus, except a small area adjacent to the anterior superior iliac spine for the tensor vaginse femoris. The bone between the inferior gluteal ridge and the margin of the acetab- ulum affords attachment to the capsule of the hip-joint. Towards its anterior part there is a rough surface for the reflected tendon of the rectus. The internal surface of the ilium consists of an anterior concave portion, termed the iliac fossa; it lodges the iliacus muscle. The fossa is limited below by the ilio-pectineal line; this line receives, at its anterior part, the insertion of the psoas parvus. A small portion of the ilium extends below the ilio-pectineal line to meet the ischium. The surface posterior to the fossa is divided into an auricular sur- face for articulation with the lateral aspect of the upper portion of the sacrum, and a superior rough surface—the tuberosity—for the posterior sacro-iliac and ilio- lumbar ligaments. The crest extends from the anterior superior iliac to the pos- terior superior iliac spine. It is thickest at its extremities. The prominent edges, or lips, are for the attachment of muscles and fascia?. The outer lip affords attachment to the gluteal portion of the fascia lata. The external oblique is inserted into the anterior, and the latissimus dorsi arises for about an inch more posteriorly. The anterior two-thirds of the intermediate space gives origin to the internal oblique. The inner lip, by its anterior three-fourths, gives attachment to the transversalis ; behind this is a small surface for the quadratus lum- borum, and the remainder is occupied by the erector spinas. The extreme inner margin of the lip in the anterior two-thirds serves for the attachment of the iliac fascia. The anterior border of the ilium extends from the anterior superior spine to the margin of the acetabulum. The anterior superior spine gives attachment to Poupart's ligament, and the sartorius which also arises from the upper half of the superior iliac notch. This notch is terminated inferiorly by the anterior inferior spine ; it is smaller, less prominent than the superior, and gives origin to the straight head of the rectus femoris and the main limb of the ilio-femoral band of the capsule of the hip-joint. Beneath the inferior iliac spine is the inferior iliac notch; it is broad, but shallow, and limited by an eminence, the ilio-pubal ridge, which indicates the line of ankylosis of the pubes and the ilium. A few fibres of the iliacus arise from this notch. The posterior border of the ilium presents above the posterior superior spine, which gives attachment to the greater sacro-sciatic ligament and the multifidus spinas, and a portion of the oblique sacro-iliac ligament. Below this is a shallow notch terminating below in the posterior inferior spine, corresponding to the posterior border of the auricular surface. This spine receives a portion of the greater sacro- sciatic ligament. Below the spine the posterior border of the ilium forms the upper segment of the greater sciatic notch. The ischium consists of a thick solid body, a prominent tuberosity, and a ramus. The body is triangular; its outer surface forms the posterior and inferior section of the acetabulum. The inner surface forms part of the true pelvis, and meets the ilium a little distance below the ilio-pectineal line. It also forms the floor, or non-articular portion, of the acetabulum, and meets the pubes anteriorly; the line of junction is frequently indicated in adult bones by a rough line extending from the ilio-pubal ridge to the margin of the obturator foramen. The free border of