957 THE PERITONEUM cumstance which is made use of in supra-pubic cystotomy. Moreover, as the dis- tended bladder rises from the pelvis it can detach the serous membrane to some extent from the anterior parietes. In extreme distension of the bladder the peri- toneum may be lifted up for some two inches vertically above the symphysis. On reaching the os pubis it is reflected on to the upper part of the bladder, covering it as far back as the base of the trigone; thence it is reflected on to the rectum, which it covers in front and at the sides on its upper part, or forms for such part a distinct meso-rectum. Between the bladder and rectum it forms the recto-vesical pouch. The mouth of this pouch is bounded on either side by a crescentic fold, the plica semilunaris. In the female the peritoneum is reflected from the bladder on to the uterus, which it covers; it then extends so far down in the pelvis as to pass over the upper part of the vagina behind; thence it extends to the rectum. The peri- toneum which invests the uterus is reflected laterally to form the broad ligaments. The fold between the vagina and rectum forms the recto-vaginal pouch, or ])ouch of Douglas. The membrane has now been traced back to the spine. Following it upwards, the sigmoid flexure will be found to be completely cov- ered by peritoneum, a meso-colon attaching the gut to the abdominal wall. As seen in fig. 561, the ascending and descending colon in either loin are covered by peritoneum, as a rule, in front and on the outer sides. A little higher up in the median line the peritoneum passes forwards, to enclose the small intestine, and, returning to the spine, forms the mesentery (fig. 563). It now passes over the third part of the duodenum to the pancreas, from which point it again passes for- wards to form the lower layer of the transverse meso-colon. It invests the trans- verse colon below and partly in front, and then leaves it to pass downwards to take part in the great omentum. Running downwards some distance, it returns and forms the anterior layer of the omentum. On reaching the stomach it goes over the anterior surface, and at the upper border forms the anterior layer of the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, which extends between the stomach and the liver. It invests the inferior surface of the liver in front of the transverse fissure, and, turning over its anterior border, covers the upper surface. At the posterior limit of the upper surface it leaves the liver and goes to the diaphragm, forming the superior layer of the coronary ligament. It covers the anterior part of the dome of the diaphragm, and, once more reaching the anterior abdominal wall, can be followed to the umbilicus, where it was first described. On reference to the dia- gram (fig. 563), the student might be led to suppose that the two sacs as above described are quite separate. This, of course, is not the case; but in a longitudinal section of the body made anywhere to the left of the foramen of Winslow, it is impossible to show the direct connection between the two sacs. The peritoneum has only been traced in this longitudinal section so far as it concerns the greater sac. It now remains to follow upon the same section such part of the membrane as forms the lesser sac. The peritoneum here will be seen to cover the posterior surface of the stomach; and from thence it runs upwards to the liver, forming the posterior layer of the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum. It reaches the liver behind the transverse fissure. It covers only a part of its poste- rior surface, and is reflected on to the diaphragm, forming the lower layer of the coronary ligament. It now goes downwards over the hinder part of the dome of the diaphragm to the spine, separated from the latter by the great vessels. On reaching the pancreas it passes forwards, and forms the upper layer of the trans- verse meso-colon. It then covers the upper half of the transverse colon, and descending, forms the innermost layer of the great omentum. It now ascends, and, arriving at the greater curvature of the stomach, passes on to its posterior wall. At this point its description was commenced. From fig. 562 it will also be evident that the peritoneum forming the lesser sac comes into contact with the spleen, forms one layer of the gastro-splenic omentum, and is in relation with the upper part of the left kidney. The precise manner in which certain organs—such as the liver, the caecum, the duodenum, and the kidneys—are invested by peritoneum, is described in the account of those viscera. To such accounts the reader is referred for a description of the many ' ligaments' (such as those of the bladder and liver) which are formed by the peritoneum.