SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1118 the right lobe of the liver, and having the quadrate lobe to its left, lies opposite to the right ninth costal cartilage, close to the outer edge of the rectus. It is in contact with the hepatic flexure of the colon and the first piece of the duodenum. Stomach (figs. 566-569, p. 960).—This organ varies in position more than any other, owing to its mobility, save at the cardiac orifice, and to its varying disten- sion. When empty and contracted, it lies far back in the abdomen, under the left lobe of the liver, and in front of the pancreas. When much distended, its pyloric end moves to the right, and the organ comes forwards, pushing against the liver and abdominal wall; and upwards, against the diaphragm, and thus against the heart and left lung. If moderately distended, the cardia will be found under the seventh left chondro-sternal joint, about one inch beyond the sternum. The pylorus is very mobile, but a spot near the end of the cartilage of the eighth rib will denote it with sufficient accuracy. It is on a deeper plane than the cardia. By joining these two points with lines representing the lesser and greater curvatures, the stomach can be marked out (figs. 708, 709). The usual inaccuracies committed in delineating the stomach are as follows: The viscus is marked too horizontally— students forget its oblique position. The greater curvature and fundus are not Fig. 688.—Diagram showing Relation of Kidney to Capsule. SUBPERITONEAL TISSUE FATTY CAPSULE Renal vetteU embedded in subperitoneal tfisue marked high enough on the left side. They are placed high up under the left arch of the diaphragm, well to the left of the middle line, as high as the sixth chondro- sternal joint. The lesser curvature is usually made too curved and too horizontal (Shcild). The pancreas.—This lies a little obliquely behind the stomach, crossing the aorta, inferior cava, and spine about the junction of the first and second lumbar vertebras, or three inches above the umbilicus (fig. 587, p. 987, and fig. 710, p. 1147). A little lower is the third piece of the duodenum, reaching to within an inch of the umbilicus (Godlee). Intestines—(A) Small.—The only parts of these that can be localised at all definitely are the duodenum and its junction with the jejunum and the ending of the ileum in the caecum. The first piece of the duodenum lies in the right hypochon- drium, usually near the gall-bladder (vide supra), reaching from the pylorus upwards, backwards, and to the right. This is the most mobile of the three parts. The second, or descending, is in relation with the head of the pancreas, and reaches the right lumbar region, descending as low as the second or third lumbar vertebra. The third, or oblique, portion passes from the third lumbar vertebra obliquely from right to left across the second, and, ascending, ends in the jejunum on the left side