COMMON ILIAC It will be thus seen that the right common iliac artery crosses both common iliac veins, and that its own vein, the right, is at first a little to the left side, but, as it ascends, passes beneath it, and gets a little to the right side. Since the bifur- cation of the vena cava is a little below and to the right side of the bifurcation of the aorta, it follows that the right common iliac artery lies on the commencement of the vena cava. The Left Common Iliac Artery The left common iliac artery, one inch and three-quarters in length (4 cm.), is a little shorter and thicker than the right. Relations.—In front it is covered by the peritoneum, which separates it from the intestines, and is crossed by the ureter, the ovarian artery in the«female, branches of the sympathetic nerve descending to the hypogastric plexus, the termi- nation of the inferior mesenteric artery, the sigmoid flexure, and the sigmoid meso-colon. Behind are the lower border of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, the disc between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra;, the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and the disc between it and the sacrum. Crossing deeply behind the artery between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the psoas, is the obturator nerve, the lumbo-sacral cord, and the ilio-lumbar artery. To the left side is the psoas muscle. To the right side are the left common iliac vein, the hypogastric plexus, and the middle sacral artery. Variations in the Common Iliac Arteries (A) .The common iliac arteries may be longer or shorter than here described. They have been found as short as half an inch, or as long as four and a' half inches, but the usual limit is something between one and a half to three inches. This variation in the length of the vessels may depend upon the aorta bifurcating above or below the usual spot, or upon the common iliac arteries dividing higher or lower than usual. A low bifurcation of the aorta is somewhat more common than a high bifurcation, as is also the case with the common iliacs. (B) The common iliacs may be absent, the external and internal iliacs then arising together from the end of the aorta. (C) Either artery may give off a large branch, such as the ilio-lumbar, the lateral or the middle sacral, sometimes a lumbar, or occasionally an accessory renal artery. Collateral Circulation The collateral circulation after obstruction or ligature of the common iliac artery is carried on chiefly (fig. 374) by the anastomosis of the middle sacral with the lateral sacral; the internal mammary with the epigastric ; the lumbar arteries of the aorta with the ilio-lumbar and deep circumflex iliac ; the pubic branch of the epigastric with the pubic branch of the obturator ; the posterior branches of the sacral arteries with the gluteal; the superior hfemorrhoidal from the superior mesenteric, with the haemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac and pudic ; the ovarian arteries from the aorta with the uterine branches of the internal iliac ; and by the anastomosis across the middle line of the pubic branch of the obturator with the like vessel of the opposite side ; the lateral sacral with the opposite lateral sacral; and the vesical, haemor- rhoidal, uterine, and vaginal branches of the internal iliac with the corresponding branches of the opposite internal iliac. Branches of the Common Iliac Artery The branches of the common iliac artery are:—(1) Peritoneal and sub- peritoneal; (2) ureteral; (3) internal iliac; and (4) external iliac. (1) The peritoneal and subperitoneal are distributed to the peritoneum and subperitoneal fat. They anastomose with like vessels given off from the lumbar, phrenic, and renal arteries, forming a subperitoneal arterial anastomosis. They are very small and unimportant. (2) The ureteral are small insignificant twigs given off to the ureter as that duct crosses the artery. They anastomose with the ureteral arteries given off from the spermatic above, and with those derived from the vesical arteries below.