THE ARTERIES 554 anastomosing with the other arteries of the abdominal wall. As they wind round the bodies of the vertebrae they pass beneath the chain of the sympathetic nerve, and the upper two beneath the right cms of the diaphragm on the right side, and the left crus on the left side. The right arteries also pass beneath the vena cava inferior, and the two upper on that side beneath the receptaculum chyli. The arteries on both sides then dip beneath the tendinous arch thrown across the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae by the psoas, and continue beneath this muscle until they arrive at the interval between the transverse processes of the vertebrae and the inner edge of the quadratus lumborum. Whilst under cover of the psoas they are accompanied by two slender filaments of the sympathetic nerve, and by the lumbar veins. A little anterior to the transverse processes they are crossed by branches of the lumbar plexus, and here usually cross in front of the ascending lumbar vein. They now pass behind the quadratus lumborum, with the exception usually of the first, and sometimes of the last, which may pass in front of the muscle. At the outer edge of the quadratus they run between the transversalis and the internal oblique, and then, perforating the internal oblique, between the internal and external oblique. Finally, much diminished in size, they enter the rectus, and give off one or more anterior cutaneous branches, which accompany the last dorsal and the ilio-hypogastric nerves to the skin. They anastomose with the lower intercos- tals, ilio-lumbar, deep circumflex iliac, and deep epigastric arteries. The lumbar arteries give off the following branches:— (o) Vertebral branches which supply the bodies of the vertebrae and their connecting ligaments. (6) Muscular branches to the psoas, quadratus lumborum, and oblique muscles of the abdomen. (c) The dorsal branch. This is of large size, and passes backwards in com- pany with the dorsal nerve between the transverse processes above and below, the intertransversalis internally, and the quadratus lumborum externally, to the muscles of the back. On reaching the interval between the longissimus dorsi and multifidus spinae, it divides into an external and internal branch. The former ends in the multifidus, the latter and larger supplies the erector spinae, and gives branches which accompany the termination of the dorsal nerves to the skin. Just before the artery passes between the transverse processes it gives off a spinal branch, which accompanies the lumbar nerve through the intervertebral foramen into the spinal canal. Here the spinal branch divides into three twigs, one of which passes through the sheath of the dura mater to the termination of the spinal cord and cauda equina; the other two are distributed to the walls of the spinal canal after the way described in the case of the intercostals. ((/) Renal branches of small size pass forwards in front of the quadratus lum- borum to the capsule of the kidney. They anastomose with the renal artery. A communication is thus established between the renal arteries and the arteries supplying the lumbar region. The fifth pair of lumbar arteries, when present, usually come off from the middle sacral artery. Each courses outwards, beneath the common iliac artery and vein; and, after giving off a dorsal branch, ramifies over the lateral mass of the sacrum, and ends in the iliacus muscle by anastomosing with the circumflex iliac artery. The dorsal branch passes to the back between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum and ramifies in the gluteus maximus, anastomosing with the lumbar arteries above, and with the gluteal artery below. The variations in the lumbar arteries are not of great importance. (A) One or more pairs may arise as-a common stem from the back of the aorta. (B) The first lumbar may be joined at its origin with the subcostal artery ; or the third and fourth lumbar, or less often the second and third lumbar, may arise from the aorta as a common stem. (C) The fifth pair may sometimes be absent. (D) The first lumbar may give off the phrenic or the suprarenal. (E) One of the lumbar arteries may give off the spermatic. (F) The fourth lumbar on either side may give off the middle sacral, or both arteries may arise as a common stem with the middle sacral.