THE ARTERIES 540 third the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and throughout the whole of its course the internal vena comes. Variations in the Radial Artery in the Forearm (A) The radial artery may be given off from the brachial higher than usual, or from the axillary artery. (B) It may arise from the brachial lower than the bend of the elbow, but a low division of the brachial is rare. (C) It may run superficial to the fascia of the forearm. (D) It may cross over, instead of under, the extensors of the thumb. (E) It may terminate in the forearm or be absent, its place in the forearm and hand being then supplied by the ulnar, the anterior interosseous, or an enlarged median artery. (F) It may be joined by a vas aberrans from the brachial or axillary artery. Fig. 357.—The Bend of the Elbow, Left Side. (From a dissection by Dr. Alder Smith in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) MEDIAN NERVE Posterior branch of anas/omoticu magna BRANCHES OF ( INTERNAL CUT A NEOUS NERVE Posterior ulnar vein Brachialia anticus Anterior branch of anastomotica magna Anterior ulnar vein Median basilic vein MUSCULAR BRANCH OF MEDIAN NERVE Tendon of biceps Bicipital fascia Brachialis anticus Deep median vein Ulnar artery Pronator teres Radial artery Biceps Internal vena comes of brachial artery Basilic vein Brachialis anticus Cephalic vein Brach ial artery EXTERNA L CUTANEOUS NERVE Mnscnlo-spirnl n. and ascending branch of radial recurrent artery Rail ial vein Median cephalic vein Ascending br. of radial recurrent MA DIAL NERVE Radial recurrent artery Supinator longus Descending br. of radial recurrent Median vein RADIAL \ 1.1; i E The branches of the radial artery in the forearm are :—(1) The radial re- current; (2) the muscular; (3) the anterior radial carpal; (4) the superficial volar. (1) The radial recurrent usually arises from the outer side of the radial just below its origin from the brachial. It at first runs outwards on the supinator brevis, and then divides into three chief branches (rig. 357). One of these runs transversely outwards through the fibres of the musculo-spiral nerve, or between the radial and posterior interosseous nerves when the musculo-spiral divides higher