8 THE SKELETON presents a tubercle on its anterior face for the anterior vertebral ligament and the longus colli muscle ; its posterior surface has a circular facet for the odontoid process of the axis. The upper and lower borders are for ligaments. The lateral masses are united posteriorly by a larger arch of bone, forming two- fifths of the circumference. Posteriorly this arch has a tubercle, representing a rudimentary spinous process. The upper and under surfaces of the arch afford attachments to ligaments. At- the junction of the posterior arch with the lateral masses there is, on the upper surface, a deep groove which lodges the vertebral artery and the suboccipital (first spinal) nerve. A bridge of bone (the ossified Fig. 8.—The First Cervical Vertebra or Atlas, anterior tubercle ■ =— oblique ligament) sometimes converts this into a foramen. A similar, but much shallower, notch is present on the under surface; this, with the axis, forms an intervertebral foramen for the second nerve. The atlas and axis are peculiar in that the first and second spinal nerves issue behind the articular processes, whereas the remaining spinal nerves emerge in front of the articular facets of the vertebrae. Each lateral mass has, on its upper surface, an elongated, deeply concave articular fossa or cup. These articular cups converge anteriorly. Occasionally each presents two oval facets united by an isthmus. These cups receive the occipital condyles and permit nodding movements of the head. The inferior articular processes are Fig. 9.—The Axis. SPINE INFERIOR ARTICULAR PROCESS circular and almost flat; they are directed downwards, with an inclination inwards, rest upon the axis, and permit rotatory movements of the head. Between the upper and lower articular surfaces on the inside of the ring, two tubercles exist for the transverse ligament. This ligament divides the space within the ring into an anterior smaller segment for the odontoid process of the axis, and a larger portion —the spinal foramen of other vertebras—for the spinal cord and its membranes. The transverse processes are large, to serve for the attachment of muscles which help to rotate the head. The costo-transverse foramina are large, but the costal processes are slender.