DEL TO IDS UPBA-SPIXA Tl 'S 301 Insertion.—A rough triangular impression, with the apex downwards, and from two to three inches long, just above the middle of the outer surface of the humerus. Structure.—At the front and back part of its origin it arises by short, tendinous fibres which end in parallel muscular bundles. At the middle part, strong fibrous septa three or four in number pass downwards from the acromion process into the substance of the muscle, upon the surface of which their outer edges are visible. The fleshy fibres of this part of the muscle arise both from the acromion and from the surfaces of these septa. The short strong tendon of insertion is prolonged upwards into three fibrous planes, which, as well as the tendon, receive the fleshy fibres of the middle part in multipenniform fashion. The muscular bundles from the front and back parts of the origin are inserted upon the anterior and posterior surfaces of the tendon of insertion. In front, this tendon is connected with that of the pectoralis major; below, it gives fibres to the external intermuscular septum, and also to the upper part of the brachialis anticus. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the fifth and sixth cervical nerves) by means of the circumflex nerve. This nerve enters the deep surface of the muscle by several filaments about half way between the origin and insertion. Action.—When all its fibres contract together, it will abduct the humerus through a right angle. If the first and second parts act alone, they will flex and abduct the arm, as when it is raised to the level of the shoulder and at the same time directed forwards. The posterior and middle portions of the muscle by their contraction will abduct the arm, and at the same time extend it, as when the arm is elevated, and at the same time directed backwards. The movements of abduction, or of abduction combined with flexion, are through 90°; of abduction combined with extension, only through 45°. In its action the muscle forms a lever of the third order. The greater advantage which it gains by its insertion at a considerable distance from its fulcrum at the shoulder- joint is lost by the extreme obliquity of its direction. Hence the great thickness and strength of the muscle, and the facility with which this movement is lost by injury or disease. For the proper action of this muscle in elevation of the arm, it is necessary that the scapula should be held firm by means of the serratus magnus. Relations.—Superficially, the integument and deep fascia; upon its front border, the pectoralis major, a small artery, and the cephalic vein; deeply, the coracoid process and upper extremity of the humerus, the tendons of the pectoralis minor and major, the short head of the biceps, coraco-brachialis, subscapularis, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, the long heads of the biceps and triceps, the outer head of the triceps, the coraco-clavicular and coraco-acromial ligaments, the circumflex arteries and nerve, and a large bursa which separates the muscle from the greater tuberosity of the humerus and the structures attached to it; below, it comes into contact with the upper part of the brachialis anticus. Variations.—The clavicular portion of its origin may reach inwards as far as that of the pec- toralis major, and the two muscles_ may blend along their adjacent borders. Behind, it may ■ receive separate bands from the fascia infra-spinata or the borders of the scapula. Occasionally transverse fibres have been found lying in the substance of the muscle close to its acromial origin. 2. SUPRA-SPINATUS The supra-spinatus—named from its position above the spine of the scapula— is a somewhat fan-shaped, thick triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The inner two-thirds of the supraspinous fossa; (2) the upper surface of the spine of the scapula; and (3) the fascia covering the muscle. Insertion.—(1) The upper facet of the greater tuberosity of the humerus; and (2) the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Structure.—It arises by fleshy fibres which converge upon a tendon which is concealed in the substance of the muscle almost to the point of its insertion. Nerve-supply.—From the brachial plexus (through the fifth cervical nerve)