749 TROCHLEAR AND TRIGEMINAL NERVES the substance of which they decussate with their fellows of the opposite side and become collected into a single bundle (fig. 444). This bundle emerges as a slender rounded fasciculus (superficial origin) from the valve of Vieussens, close to the frenulum veli, immediately below the testes, and winds round the crus cerebri to appear at the base of the brain near the anterior margin of the pons. The right nerve, therefore, arises from the left nucleus and vice versa. The fourth nerve pierces the dura mater at a point a little behind and external to the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone in the posterior fossa of the skull. It runs forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, being placed between the third nerve, which is above and internal to it, and the ophthalmic Fig. 444.—Sections through the Origin of the Fourth Nerve. (Stilling.) (The upper figure is au oblique section, the lower is a coronal section.) division of the fifth nerve, which is situated below and to its outer side. As it approaches the sphenoidal fissure it bends upwards, crosses on the outer side of the third nerve, and passes through the innermost part of the sphenoidal fissure. As it passes through the fissure it is placed above and internal to the frontal nerve. It then passes inwards above the origin of the levator palpebral superioris muscle, and pierces the orbital surface of the superior oblicme muscle, in which it ends. The fourth nerve is the smallest of the cranial nerves. It is remarkable for the [ length of its intracranial course and for its mode of decussation. Whilst in the i wall of the cavernous sinus it is connected with the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve and with the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. FIFTH OR TRIGEMINAL NERVE The fifth or trigeminal nerve consists of two parts, a large sensory root (portio major) and a small motor root (portio minor). The portio major passes into a ganglion (Gasserian ganglion) which has been compared to the ganglion on the posterior root of a spinal nerve, which it probably resembles in exercising a trophic influence on the nerve-fibres, though this has not been experimentally proved. The ' superficial origin' of the nerve is from the side of the pons near its upper border. The deep origin of the portio major is chiefly by the ascending root, a long tract of fibres which runs for a considerable distance within the cerebro-spinal axis. The portio major has, however, in addition to this, several supplementary origins. The portio minor arises principally from a nucleus which is embedded in the grey