647 EXTERNAL ILIAC the vein passes through Hunter's canal, it lies behind and a little external to the artery. At the apex of Scarpa's triangle it is still posterior to the artery, but gradually passes to the inner side as it ascends through that space. It contains three pairs of valves. The close connection of the vein to the artery should be remembered in the operation of ligature. The sheath should be opened on its inner side, that is, well over the artery, and the point of the aneurysm needle kept closely applied to the artery lest it perforate the overlapping vein. Tributaries.—(1) The venae comites of the anastomotica magna artery; (2) the vense comites corresponding to the muscular branches of the femoral. The profunda or deep femoral vein accompanies the profunda or deep femoral artery, and receives the vense comites corresponding to its various branches. Unlike the other veins of the lower extremity, it lies in front of its companion artery, and is at first a little internal to it. It terminates by joining the super- ficial femoral vein about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament in the angle between the femoral and profunda arteries. It contains five valves. The common femoral vein is a short thick trunk corresponding to the common femoral artery. It is formed by the confluence of the superficial femoral and profunda veins about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament, and is con- tinued upwards to the lower border of that structure, where it takes the name of external iliac. It lies on the same plane as the common femoral artery, but internal to that vessel, from which it is separated by a delicate prolongation of fascia stretching between the front and back layers of the femoral sheath. Internally, it is separated by a similar septum of fascia from the crural canal. It usually contains two valves: one just above the junction with the profunda vein, the other just below Poupart's ligament (fig. 372). Tributary.—The long saphenous vein which reaches it by passing through the saphenous opening in the deep fascia. Chief variations.—(1) The femoral vein may be double in part or in the whole of its length. (2) It may split into two and embrace the femoral artery. (3) It may pass through the adductor magnus above the femoral artery and run separate from the artery until it joins the profunda vein to form the common femofal vein. (4) It may run with the sciatic nerve and pierce the adductor magnus at the level of the lesser trochanter. When this occurs the femoral artery is usually very small, and the sciatic artery is the chief nutrient vessel of the thigh. The external iliac vein is the continuation upwards of the common femoral. Beginning at the lower border of Poupart's ligament it accompanies the external iliac artery upwards and inwards along the brim of the pelvis, lying at first on the horizontal ramus of the pubes, and then on the psoas muscle. It terminates in the common iliac vein by joining the internal iliac vein behind the internal iliac artery opposite the lower border of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. It lies at first internal to the external iliac artery, and on the left side remains internal to the artery throughout its course. On the right side, however, as it ascends, it gradually gets a little behind the artery. It contains one or two valves. Tributaries.—(1) The deep epigastric vein, formed by the union of the vena? comites of the deep epigastric artery, joins the external iliac just above Poupart's ligament. (2) The deep circumflex iliac vein, which is formed in the same way by the confluence of the vense comites of the deep circumflex iliac artery, joins the external iliac vein a little higher.