799 THORACIC NERVES THORACIC NERVES The smaller part of the first thoracic nerve and the second to the eleventh thoracic nerves follow the contour of the body wall in the intervals between the ribs, and are therefore termed intercostal nerves. The twelfth thoracic nerve pursues a parallel course to the others, below the twelfth rib. Each of the inter- costal nerves is accompanied by an intercostal artery and vein. These vessels are placed, immediately above the nerve, in the groove at the lower border of the rib. The twelfth thoracic nerve is accompanied by the first lumbar artery. Each I thoracic nerve is joined, near the head of the rib, by two rami communicantes \ from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The first and last thoracic nerves I require separate description. The remaining ten nerves fall naturally into an upper I and a lower group. The members of the upper group (the second to the sixth) run between the ribs as far as the margin of the sternum. The members of the lower group (seventh to eleventh nerves) lie for a part of their course between the layers of the abdominal wall, the extent of the abdominal distribution increasing from the highest to the lowest member of the series. A. First thoracic nerve.—The greater part of the first thoracic nerve crosses the neck of the first rib to join the brachial }:>lexus, as already described. The smaller part, about one-fifth of the entire nerve, runs for about two inches in ! contact with the under surface of the first rib between the bone and the pleura, and | then enters the cellular interval between the external and internal intercostal muscles. For the remainder of its course it corresponds to the upper intercostal nerves in its distribution, but it does not usually give a lateral or an anterior | cutaneous branch. Variety.—In some cases a lateral cutaneous nerve arises from the first intercostal nerve. It j may be of small size, but is sometimes as large as an ordinary intercosto-humeral nerve. It communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve and with the nerve of Wrisberg. B. Upper intercostal nerves.—The second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth inter- costal nerves, after receiving communications from the sympathetic, are directed outwards in the intercostal spaces in front of the posterior intercostal membrane, between that membrane and the pleura. They then enter the interval between the external and internal intercostal muscles, and follow the curve of the thoracic wall between these muscles as far as the mid-axillary line, and then, taking a deeper position, they run through the fibres of the internal intercostals as far as the junction of the bony parts of the ribs with their cartilages. Hence they pass forwards on the j deep surface of the internal intercostal muscles, lying on the pleura and on the slips jof the triangularis sterni, and cross in front of the internal mammary vessels. Lastly, they bend forwards and pierce the internal intercostals, the anterior inter- costal membranes and the pectoralis major, and terminate as the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. In this course they give off muscular branches to the levatores costarum, serratus posticus superior, external and internal intercostals, and triangularis sterni. Each nerve also gives off two cutaneous branches— namely, the lateral and anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax pierce the external intercostal |muscles, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. These branches pass [between the digitations of the serratus magnus, and are separated by an interval of about half an inch when they appear on the superficial surface of that muscle. [The anterior branches run forwards, cross the lower border of the great pectoral, land supply the integuments which cover the lower and outer portion of that muscle, jand give twigs to the mammary gland. They increase progressively in size from above downwards. In the case of the second lateral cutaneous nerve, the anterior branch is usually wanting. The posterior branches turn backwards, and supply the skin covering the outer part of the latissimus dorsi and the inferior angle of the scapula. The lateral cutaneous branches of the second and third intercostal nerves are larger than the others, and require separate notice. The lateral cuta-