SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE 773 they take origin) cervical and thoracic, and form altogether three or four pairs of nerves. These all proceed to the deep cardiac plexus, with one exception, the inferior cervical cardiac of the left side, which joins the superficial cardiac plexus. (i) The superior cervical cardiac nerves, one or two in number, join the corresponding branches from the sympathetic. A full account of these nerves will be given in the description of the cardiac plexus. (See Sympathetic System. ) (ii) The inferior cervical cardiac nerve of the left side passes downwards on the left side of the transverse portion of the aortic arch between the latter and the pleura, and joins the superficial cardiac plexus. As it crosses the arch the phrenic nerve is in front of it, and the left upper cervical cardiac of the sympathetic is behind it. The right inferior cervical cardiac passes downwards on the side of the trachea to join the deep cardiac plexus. (iii) The thoracic cardiac branches usually arise close to and in connection with the recurrent laryngeal nerves; consequently the nerves on the left side arise a little lower than the right. They are directed inwards to the front of the lower end of the trachea to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus. (g) The anterior pulmonary branches are one or two small twigs, which arise at the upper border of the root of the lung and pass forwards to gain the anterior aspect of the bronchus, where they communicate with the sympathetic and form the anterior pulmonary plexus, whence fine twigs pass along the bronchus into the lung. The posterior pulmonary plexus is formed by a great flattened expansion of the pneumogastric nerve on the posterior aspect of the bronchus. From this several stout twigs proceed, which communicate with twigs from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, and pass into the lung, and it anasto- moses with the corresponding plexus of the opposite side. (h) Oesophageal branches.—Numerous twigs are given off from the plexus | guise as it encircles the oesophagus, and are distributed to the muscular and mucous coats of that canal. (i) Abdominal branches.—The termination of the left vagus nerve passes through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm on the anterior aspect of the oesophagus, and is distributed over the anterior surface of the stomach. The strongest branches accompany the coronary artery along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and, from these, twigs pass on to the hepatic artery and join the hepatic plexus. The termination of the right vagus is distributed upon the pos- [ terior surface of the stomach, and gives twigs to the coeliac, splenic, and left renal plexuses. ELEVENTH OR SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE The spinal accessory nerve consists of two distinct parts, which are usually i known as the spinal and the accessory portions of the nerve. The former of these (spinal portion) is a purely motor nerve which arises from the nerve-cells in the ventro-lateral group of the anterior cornu of the cervical portion of the spinal cord. The accessory portion, on the other hand, arises by a series of roots from the distal parts of both the motor and sensory accessorio-vago-glosso-pharyngeal nuclei in the medulla, and would be more properly described as the most distal vagal roots (Obersteiner) than as a separate nerve. The accessory portion (distal vagal roots, or bulbar accessory) consists of four or five fasciculi which arise in a precisely similar manner to the roots of the vagus with which they are in series. Shortly after their emergence from the medulla they join the spinal portion and accompany the latter through the jugular foramen. Having gained the exterior of the skull, the bulbar accessory leaves the nerve with which it has been associated in part of its course, and joins the ganglion of the root of the vagus; some of its fibres pass into the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves as already described. The spinal portion arises from the ventro-lateral group of nerve-cells in the anterior cornu of the cervical portion of the spinal cord. Some of the fibres run longitudinally for a short distance and join other more direct fibres, which arch backwards and outwards to emerge at the lateral column of the cord between the