345 THE MUSCLES AND FASCLE OF THE THIGH aponeurosis of the external oblique; on the outer side and behind, to the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and to the lower part of the vertebral aponeurosis; upon the inner side, to the border of the tuberosity and ascending ramus of the ischium, to the descending ramus of the pubes, the symphysis pubis, and the anterior lip of the crest of the pubes. Below, it becomes much thinner, and is continuous with the deep fascia of the leg; it has also a deep attachment to the tuberosities of the tibia and the outer surface of the head of the fibula. The thickening of its outer portion, which passes down like a tendon to the external tuberosity of the tibia, and is also attached to the outer side of the ligamentum patella?, is called the ilio- tibial band. From the deep surface of this great cylindrical tube are given oft' various processes which assist in the formation of the sheaths of some of the more superficial muscles. There are also three strong intermuscular septa, which extend from it to the linea aspera in the lower part of the thigh dividing the flexor, exten- sor, and adductor groups of muscles from one another. At the upper part of the thigh, below the inner third of Poupart's ligament, is the saphenous opening, for the passage of the internal saphenous vein, which, after running up the thigh in the superficial fascia, enters the deep femoral vein in this situation. This opening is not, as might have been expected from the character of these openings in other parts, a mere circular foramen. It is formed by the division of the fascia lata into two parts, which do not unite together again, but are inserted separately along the line of attachment of the lower limb to the trunk. It begins below the inner third of Poupart's ligament, and is of a somewhat oval shape, measuring about one inch (2-5 cm.) from above downwards, and half to three-quarters of an inch (1*2 to 2 cm.) from side to side. The lower border of the opening forms a well-defined edge which occupies the angle between the saphenous and femoral veins close to their point of junction. Externally, the fascia lata is attached above along the whole length of Poupart's ligament, and its free internal edge arches inwards towards the spine of the pubes in front of the femoral vein. This external and broad division of the upper part of the fascia lata is called its iliac portion, and the free edge which lies in front of the femoral vessels is known by the name of the falciform ligament. Internally, the fascia lata is in close contact with the pecti-