SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1128 culse seminales and ejaculatory ducts. These can rarely be felt unless diseased and enlarged; (7) it is within this triangular space that a distended bladder can be felt, and, if the prostate is not enlarged, punctured, the trocar being driven in the direction of the long axis of the distended viscus, i.e. towards the umbilicus. As a rule, the recto-vesical pouch is reflected at a distance of three and a half or even four inches (87 to 100 mm.) from the anus. In the female the distance is only tbree inches, or even less. (8) Sometimes the lowest of the folds of Houston, on about the same level as the prostate, semilunar in form and about half an inch in width, can be made out (fig. 694). The position of this and the other two folds of Houston should be remembered, as their presence, if well developed and if the bowel be empty, may interfere with the passage of instruments. In addition to the structures which can be felt, those which can be seen with a speculum, especially if the body be seen in the semiprone or genu- pectoral position, must be noted. Starting from immediately within the anus are some six or eight vertical folds of mucous membrane, the columns of Glisson. Fig. 697.—Diagram of the Pelvic Fascia. icles Between these columns lie little pockets or lacunae, the sinuses of Morgagni, just above the external sphincter. In the above-mentioned columns the hemorrhoidal vessels ascend and descend, intercommunicating by numerous transverse branches. The above examination refers chiefly to the male. It remains to refer to rectal examination in the female. Anteriorly, the soft perinatal body and recto- vaginal septum will be met with, and, through the latter, the cervix and os uteri, and, higher up, the lower part of the cervix uteri. More laterally the ovaries may be felt, but the Fallopian tubes, unless enlarged and thickened, are not to be made out. The student should be familiar with the feel of a healthy recto-uterine or recto-vesical pouch, according to the sex, and the coils of intestine which it may contain, so as to be able to contrast this with any collection of inflammatory or other fluid or mischief descending from the upper pelvis, e.g. from the vermiform appendix. Posteriorly, certain structures are met with in either sex. After a very short interval (sphincter and ano-coccygeal body), the finger reaches the tip of the coccyx and explores the hollow of the sacrum. On each side is the ischial tuber- osity and wall of the true pelvis. The finger, hooked outwards and upwards, comes