226 THE ARTICULATIONS major joins the capsule below. Internally are the long tendon of the biceps and the gleno-humeral ligament. The arterial supply is derived from the suprascapular, anterior and posterior circumflex, subscapular, dorsalis scapula;, and. a branch from the second portion of the axillary artery. The nerve-supply is derived from the suprascapular, by branches in both fossse; and from the circumflex and subscapular nerves. The movements of the shoulder-joint consist of flexion, extension, adduction and abduction, rotation and circumduction. Flexion is the swinging forwards, extension the swinging backwards, of the humerus; abduction is the raising of the arm from, and adduction depression of the arm to, the side. In flexion and extension the head of the humerus moves upon the centre of the glenoid fossa round an oblique line corresponding to the axis of the head and neck of the humerus, flexion being more free than extension, and in extreme flexion the scapula follows the head of the humerus, so as to keep the articular surfaces in apposition. In extension the scapula moves much less, if at all. In abduction and adduction the scapula is fixed, and the humerus rolls up and down upon the glenoid fossa; during abduction the head descends until it projects beyond the lower edge of the glenoid cavity, and the great tuberosity impinges against the arch of the acromion; during adduction, the head of the humerus ascends in its socket, the arm at length reaches the side, and the capsule is com- pletely relaxed. In circumduction, the humerus, by passing quickly through these movements, describes a cone, whose apex is at the shoulder-joint, and the base at the distal extremity of the bone or limb. Rotation takes place round a vertical axis drawn through the extremities of the humerus from the centre of the head to the inner condyle; in rotation forwards (that is, inwards) the head of the bone rolls back in the socket as the great tuber- osity and shaft are turned forwards; in rotation backwards (that is, outwards) the head of the bone glides forwards, and the tuberosity and shaft of the humerus are turned backwards, i. e. outwards. Great freedom of movement is permitted at the shoulder, and this is increased by the mobility of the scapula. Restraint is scarcely exercised at all upon the movements of the shoulder by the ligaments, but chiefly by the muscles of the joint. In abduction, the lower part of the capsule is somewhat, and in extreme abduc- tion considerably, tightened; and in rotation inwards and outwards, the upper part of the capsule is made tense, as is also, in the latter movement, the coraco-humeral ligament. The movements of abduction and extension have a most decided and definite resistance offered to them other than by muscles and ligaments, for the great tuberosity of the humerus, by striking against the acromion process and coraco- acromial ligament, stops short any further advance of the bone in these directions, and thus abduction ceases altogether as soon as the arm is raised to a right angle with the trunk, and extension shortly after the humerus passes the line of the trunk. Further elevation of the arm beyond the right angle is effected by the rotation of the scapula round its own axis by the action of the trapezius and serratus magnus muscles upon the sterno-clavicular and acromio-clavicular joints. The acromion and coracoid processes, together with the coraco-acromial liga- ment, form an arch. Avhich is separated by a bursa and the tendon of the supra- spinatus from the capsule of the shoulder. Beneath this arch the movements of the joint take place, and against it the head and tuberosities are pressed when the weight of the trunk is supported by the arms; the greater tuberosity and the upper part of the shaft impinge upon it when abduction and extension are carried to their fullest extent. No description of the shoulder-joint would be complete without a short notice of the peculiar relation which the biceps tendon bears to the joint. It passes over the head of the humerus a little to the inner side of its summit, and lies free