SERRATUS MAGNUS 299 Insertion.—The first part is attached to an oval space upon the venter of the scapula close to the posterior superior angle. The second part, to the whole of the vertebral border of the scapula upon its ventral aspect. The third part to the large oval space on the venter of the scapula close to its inferior angle. Structure.—The origin of the muscle is by fleshy or short aponeurotic fibres, and in the first part these fibres converge very slightly towards their fleshy inser- tion. In the second part they diverge and form a thin sheet attached to the verte- bral border of the scapula. In the third part of the muscle the fibres converge fanwise and form a very thick and strong fleshy mass which is inserted directly into the inferior angle of the scapula. At their origin the teeth of this part of the muscle interdigitate with or fit in between those of the origin of the obliquus abdominis externus. All the fibres are curved to adapt themselves to the convex wall of the chest. Nerve-supply.—From the brachial plexus by the posterior thoracic nerve, Fig. 267.—Serratus Magnus. which is derived from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves. After running down the side of the chest upon the outer surface of the muscle, the nerve is dis- tributed by many branches to the various digitations. Action.—By its contraction, this muscle draws forwards the vertebral border of the scapula and, as the third part of it is much the strongest, it will act especially upon the inferior angle, and will rotate the scapula so as to raise the point of the shoulder. It will therefore help the trapezius muscle in raising the shoulder, and it will be brought powerfully into play whenever the shoulder is used in push- ing in a forward direction. It is most important, however, in relation to the movements of the arm. In order that the deltoid muscle may raise the humerus, it is necessary that the fulcrum formed by the glenoid portion of the scapula should be held steady. For this reason the scapula extends so far downwards in order that the leverage given to the third and most powerful portion of the serratus may be as great as possible. When the serratus magnus is paralysed, all the efforts of