THE SKELETON 72 The base of the skull is very irregular, and extends from the incisor teeth to the occipital protuberance. Laterally it is limited by the zygomatic arches. Anteriorly it presents the hard palate. When the skull is inverted, the hard palate stands at a higher level than the rest; it is bounded anteriorly and laterally by the alveolar ridges containing the teeth. The bones appearing in the intermediate space are the premaxillary and palatine portions of the maxillae, and the horizontal plates of the palate bones. The bone is rough for the attachment of the muco- periosteum. The following points are readily recognised (fig. 81):— The meso-palatine suture commences at the alveolar point, traverses the anterior palatine fossa, and terminates at the posterior nasal spine. The transverse palatine suture between the palate bones and palatine processes of the maxilla?. In young skulls the maxillo-premaxillary sutures, and behind the incisor teeth four small openings known as the gubernacular canals. The anterior palatine fossa containing the termination of four canals: two small orifices, foramina of Scarpa, situated one behind the other in the meso- palatine suture; and two larger openings, the foramina of Stenson. Scarpa's foramina transmit the naso-palatine nerves; Stenson's are in relation with Jacob- son's organs. At the posterior angles of the hard palate are the posterior palatine foramina, through which the posterior palatine vessels and the anterior palatine nerves emerge on to the palate; a thin lip of bone separates them from the accessory palatine foramina for the posterior palatine nerves. The accessory foramina are in the tuberosity of the palate bone. The hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate is the most posterior limit of the hard palate. At the posterior extremity of each alveolar ridge is the tuberosity of the maxilla. Between the tuberosities of the maxilla and the palate bone are a few minute foramina (variable in number and not always present), the external palatine canals for the external palatine nerves. Behind the hard palate are the posterior nares, separated from each other by the vomer. Each is bounded externally by the internal pterygoid plate; below by the horizontal plate of the palate bone; above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, with the ala of the vomer and a portion of the sphenoidal process of the palate bone. External to the nares there is on each side a vertical fossa lying between the pterygoid plates. It extends upwards to the under surface of the greater wings of the sphenoid; it is completed anteriorly by the coalescence of the pterygoid plates, and below by the tuberosity of the palate bone. It contains the following points of interest:—