702 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM lucidum. Having reached the base of the brain, they end in the grey nuclei of the corpora albicantia. The anterior pillars of the fornix were formerly described as twisting on themselves to form bends or loops in the base of the brain, the corpora albicantia, the fibres after forming the bend being continued upwards on the inner sides of the descending anterior pillars as the bundles of Vicq d'Azyr. This description is borne out by naked eye dissection, but it has been shown that the bundles of Vicq d'Azyr are discontinuous with the fornix fibres. (Forel and Gudden.) The septum lucidum is formed by thin portions of the hemisphere walls, which have become approximated and in part fused, but are separated in the greater part of their extent by the fifth ventricle. It appears as two closely approximated thr vertical laminae, separating the anterior cornua of the lateral ventricles of opposite sides. It is attached above and in front to the under surface of the body and back of the genu of the corpus callosum, below to the rostrum and to the basal white commissure, and behind to the anterior pillars of the fornix. Viewed from the side, it is triangular in outline, with an acute angle directed backwards and occupy- ing the narrow interval between the front of the body of the fornix and the corpus callosum (fig. 412). Each of the two laminae which constitute the septum lucidum contains three layers : a layer of ependyrna and epithelium next the lateral ventricle, a middle layer of white fibres, and a layer of rudimentary grey matter next the fifth ventricle. A layer of connective tissue immediately bounding the fifth ventricle (rudimentary pia-matral layer) is described by Testut. The fifth or Sylvian ventricle is a narrow, sagittally-directed, slit-like cavity which originally formed a part of the great longitudinal fissure. It lies between the layers of the septum lucidum and it does not communicate with any of the true ventricles of the brain. The great transverse fissure of the cerebrum is of a horse-shoe shape, and extends from the foramen of Monro on each side to the termination of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is not a fissure in the sense of forming a communication between the ventricles and the exterior of the brain, but it may be considered as a fissure in the same sense that we use the term 'com- plete fissure.' If we compare it with the adjacent dentate fissure, we find that the latter produces a bulging (the hippocampus major) into the ventricular cavity. This bulging contains an inner layer of white and an outer layer of grey matter, and is simply a fold of the ventricular wall, which is here thinner than elsewhere. The floor of the dentate fissure is occupied by pia mater. Now if we suppose the substance of the hippocampus thinned away until only the epithelial lining of the ventricle was left, this epithelium would come in contact with the external pia mater, and an arrangement resembling the choroid plexus, coming through a fissure, the hippocampal fissure, would be produced. The choroid plexus is therefore an internal convolution reduced to a layer of epithelium forming the morphological wall of the ventricle, and produced by a fissure, the great transverse fissure, which is occupied by a specialised and highly vascular part of the pia mater. In comparing the great transverse fissure with the complete fissures of the cerebral hemispheres, however, we must not lose sight of the fact that it is not limited to the hemisphere wall (except at its extremities in the temporal lobes), but is produced, for the greater part of its extent, by the folding of the prosencephalon over the thalamencephalon (page 670). According to Merkel and Mierzejewsky, small slit-like apertures are found in the region of the transverse fissure near the termination of the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. These place the cavity of the lateral ventricle in communication with the subarachnoid space. The velum interpositum, or tela choroidea superior, is a large triangular fold of pia mater which overlies the third ventricle. The body and posterior pillars of the fornix and the splenium of the corpiijj callosum rest on its upper surface. It is continuous laterally with the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles, which are simply the convoluted and highly vascular margins of the fold. Traced backwards, the layers are seen to divaricate and to become continuous with the pia mater covering the tentorial surface of the occipital lobes and the upper surface of the cerebellum. Two large veins, the veins of Galen, commence at the anterior extremity of the velum interpositum. The veins of Galen are chiefly formed by the veins of the corpora striata, and are continued backwards in the middle line to end in the straight sinus. In this course they lie in a prolongation of the subarachnoid space between the two layers of pia mater which form the velum interpositum, and usually unite into one vein before entering the straight sinus.