BICEPS FEMORIS 363 THE HAMSTRING MUSCLES The hamstring muscles form a group at the hack of the thigh, separated by intermuscular septa from the vastus externus on the outer, and the adductor magnus on the inner side. They consist of the biceps, semi-tendinosus and semi- membranosus, and are supplied by the great sciatic nerve. Like the gluteus maximus their action is to extend the hip. 1. BICEPS FEMORIS The flexor biceps femoris (figs. 288 and 290)—named from its two heads— consists of two parts: the longer head being somewhat fusiform, and the shorter a triangular sheet. Origin.—The long head from (1) the lower and inner facet at the back of the tuber ischii by a tendon common to it and the semi-tendinosus; (2) the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The short head from (1) the outer lip of the linea aspera from a point just above the middle of the bone down to the bifurcation; (2) the upper two-thirds of the outer condylar ridge; (3) the external intermuscular septum. Insertion.—(1) A fossa below and in front of the styloid process of the head of the fibula; (2) the deep fascia covering the peronei muscles; (3) the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Structure.—The origin of the long head is by a short tendon which is con- tinued down to the middle of the thigh by a septum which divides this muscle from the semi-tendinosus. From this tendon and the outer surface of the septum the muscular fibres arise in penniform fashion and form a fusiform belly, which receives at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh the thick sheet of muscular fibres derived from the short outer head. The tendon commences upon the posterior surface of the muscle near its outer border about the middle of the thigh. At the back of the external condyle the fleshy fibres cease. The rounded tendon here widens into a thick aponeurosis, which embraces the anterior portion of the external lateral ligament at the point of its insertion into the outer and anterior facet of the head of the fibula. Between this tendon and the external lateral ligament is a bursa. From the borders of the tendon at this point a thinner aponeurosis is given off to the outer tuberosity of the tibia in front and the deep fascia of the leg behind. Nerve-supply.—From the first, second and third nerves of the sacral plexus by the great sciatic nerve which sends branches to the anterior and inner surfaces of the muscle about the middle of the thigh. The short head of the biceps receives its supply from the external popliteal nerve. Action.—To extend the hip and flex the knee. Its shorter head acts upon the knee only- When the knee is flexed, both heads will unite in rotating the leg out- wards. When the knee is extended, the long head will have a slight influence in rotating the hip outwards. Acting from below, the long head will assist in raising the body from the stooping position. Relations.—Behind, the gluteus maximus, the plantaris, the outer head of the gastrocnemius, gluteus maximus, fascia lata, and the small sciatic nerve. In front, the tendon of the semi-membranosus, the adductor magnus, and the great sciatic nerve. Upon its inner border lie the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and the external popliteal nerve. Beneath the lower tendon is a bursa which sep- arates it from the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Variations.—The short head of the biceps may be absent. Accessory heads may be derived from the tuber ischii, the upper part of the linea aspera, the fascia lata, or the inner surface of the tendon of insertion of the gluteus maximus. It may send a slip to the gastrocnemius.