1131 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA contact with the lower surface of the hymen. "When the fourchette is pulled down by the finger, a shallow depression is seen, the fossa navicularis, with the four- chette for its posterior, and the hymen for its anterior boundary. Examination per vaginam.—The finger, introduced past the gluteal cleft, perinaBum, and fourchette, comes upon the elliptical orifice of the vagina, and notes how far it is patulous or narrow; the presence or otherwise of any spasm from the adjacent muscles; then, passing into the canal itself, the presence or absence of rugae, a naturally moist, or a dry condition are observed. In the anterior wall the cord-like track of the urethra can be detected; and further up than this, if a sound be passed, the posterior wall of the bladder. The anterior wall of the vagina is two to two and a half inches long. The posterior wall, three inches long, forms the recto-vaginal septum, and through it any faeces present in the bowel are easily felt. The cervix uteri is next felt for in the roof of the vagina, projecting downwards and backwards in a line drawn from the umbilicus to the coccyx. Besides its direction, its size, shape, mobility, and consistence should be noted. The os uteri should form a dimple or fissure in the centre of the cervix. Of its two lips the posterior is the thicker and more fleshy feeling of the two. The vaginal ads-de-sac or fornices are next explored. These should be soft and elastic, giving an impression to the finger similar to that when it is introduced into the angles of the mouth. Any resistance felt here may be due to scars, swellings connected with the uterus (displacements, or myomata), effusions of blood or inflammatory material, and, in the case of the lateral ads-de-sac, a displaced or enlarged ovary, or dilatations of the Fallopian tubes. HERNIA PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA In inguinal hernia, as in femoral and umbilical, there is a weak spot in the abdominal wall—one weakened for the needful passage of the testicle from within to outside the abdomen. The parts immediately concerned are the two abdominal rings, external and internal, and the canal. Now, it must be remembered at the outset that the rings and canal are only potential—they do not exist as rings or canal save when opened up by a hernia, or when so made by the scalpel. The canal is merely an oblique slit or flat-sided passage. The external and internal rings are so intimately blended with the structures that pass through them, and so filled by them, that they are potential rings only. EXTERNAL RING.—This is usually described as a ring: it is really only a separation or gap in the aponeurosis of the external oblique, by which in the male the testicle and cord, and in the female the round ligament by which the uterus is kept tilted a little forwards, pass out from the abdomen. The size of this opening, the development and strength of its sides or pillars, the fascia closing the ring—all vary extremely. Formation : by divergence of two fasciculi of the external oblique aponeurosis. Boundaries : two pillars—(1) Internal, the smaller, attached to the symphysis and blending with the suspensory ligament of the penis; (2) external, stronger, attached to the pubic spine and blending with Poupart's ligament, and so with the fascia lata. On this outer, stronger pillar rests the cord (and so the weight of the testicle), or round ligament. Shape : triangular or elliptical, with the base downwards and inwards towards the pubic crest. Intercolumnar fascia. External spermatic fascia.—This, derived from the lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, ties the two pillars together, and, being continued over the cord, prevents there being any ring here, unless made with a scalpel. This is the rule in the body: when any structure passes through an opening in a fibrous or muscular layer, it carries with it a coating of tissue from that layer; e.g. the inferior cava passing through the foramen