1127 ANUS—RECTUM ment; (7) levator ani; (8) capsule of prostate. Further, these fasciae of the urethral triangle (p. 1123) are so arranged as to form a superficial deep compartment, and within one or other of these all the structures of this most important division of the perinaeum are found. Thus the superficial compartment is bounded, in front, by the fascia of Colles; behind, by the triangular ligament; laterally, by the attachment of these to the margins of the pubic arch; and, behind, by the blending of the fascia of Colles with the base of the triangular ligament. The con- tents of this compartment are given elsewhere. The deeper compartment is the interval between the two layers of the triangular ligament. Ischio-rectal fossa.—Most of the boundaries of this space (p. 1063) can be made out with the ringer in a thin subject. The loose, poorly vitalised fat which occupies it, the dependent position of the part, its terminal blood-supply, its expo- sure to cold and damp, and the close vicinity of decomposing faeces, all account for the frequency of abscess here. The position of the pudic vessels and nerve in their sheath of obturator fascia, on the outer wall, about an inch and a half above the lower margin of the tuber ischii, must be remembered. Anus.—The tightly closed condition of this orifice in health and the puckering of the skin around, due to the sphincter and corrugator cutis ani, are characteristic. Dilated veins, external piles, or tags of skin resulting from the shrinking of these, are also common. A Avhite line, varying in distinctness in different subjects, marks the junction of the skin and mucous membrane, and the interval between the external and internal sphincters (Hilton). Amongst the numerous folds about the anal orifice, a fissure or ulcer may be hidden, especially on the coccygeal aspect; the abundant nerve-supply to this region and the large distribution of the pudic nerve to the genitals, and the junction of this nerve with other branches of the sacral plexus, explain the acuteness of the suffering, and its wide distribution in these affections (Hilton). Rectum.—The following points can be made out by the finger introduced here: (1) The thickened, roll-like feel of a contracted external sphincter; (2) the narrower, more expanded, internal sphincter extending upwards for an inch from this; (3) the condition of the ischio-rectal fossae on either side; (4) the membranous urethra in front, especially if a staff has been introduced; (5) just beyond the sphincters, or an inch and a half within the anus, lies the prostate; (6) converging towards the base of the prostate, and forming the sides of the triangular space, are the vesi-