LUMBAR AND SACRAL PORTIONS OF GANGLIA TED CORD 833 LUMBAR PORTION OF THE GANGLIATED CORD The lumbar part of the gangliated cord consists of a chain of ganglia, usually four in number, which are placed in front of the bodies of the vertebrae, close to the anterior border of the psoas muscle. On the right side the cord is covered by the vena cava, and on the left side it is behind and external to the aorta. Above, it is continuous with the thoracic part of the cord. Below, it is continued into the sacral part of the cord by passing behind the common iliac vessels. The rami communicantes are longer in this part of the gangliated cord than in any other region of the body. Usually two rami pass from each ganglion backwards through the fibrous arches from which the psoas takes origin, and join the lumbar nerves in a somewhat variable manner. Frequently there is only one ramus communieans and sometimes the number of rami is increased. The rami communicantes are accompanied by the lumbar arteries. Branches.—Some of the branches join the aortic plexus; others pass in front of the common iliac arteries to form the hypogastric plexus, and some terminate in the vertebra? and ligaments. The lumbar portion of the sympathetic cord contains a number of fibres already described (p. 831) which have descended to it from the dorsal region, but it also obtains others by the white rami from the lumbar nerves; amongst the latter are additional vaso-constrictor fibres for the renal blood-vessels, secretory fibres for the glands of the hind limb, constrictor fibres for the blood-vessels of the lower extremity, pilo-motor fibres, motor fibres for the circular, and inhibitory fibres for the longitudinal muscle of the rectum, motor fibres for the uterus, vas deferens and round ligament, motor fibres for the circular and inhibitory fibres for the longi- tudinal fibres of the bladder, and vaso-motor fibres for the penis. The motor fibres for the bladder and uterus leave the lumbar sympathetic cord by the rami efferentes and pass by the aortic plexus to the inferior mesenteric ganglion. The motor fibres to the vas deferens and spermatic cord enter the genito- crural nerve. Of the vaso-motor fibres of the penis some of the constrictor fibres pass down to the sacral portion of the sympathetic cord where they ramify round the cells of the sacral ganglia, the impulses they carry being transmitted by the grey rami of the sacral ganglia to the pudic nerve. Others travel by the inferior mesenteric ganglion, and the latter are accompanied by the vaso-dilator fibres of the penis. SACRAL PORTION OF THE GANGLIATED CORD The sacral part of the gangliated cord consists of a chain of four small ganglia, which is placed in front of the sacrum internal to the anterior sacral fora- mina. From the lowest of these ganglia, branches proceed on each side and converge to a median ganglion (ganglion impar) which is situated in front of the last piece of the sacrum or the first piece of the cocc}Tx. The sacral ganglia are connected in a somewhat irregular maimer to the sacral nerves by short grey rami communicantes. Branches.—From the upper sacral ganglia branches are given off which join the pelvic plexuses. Others pass across the sacrum to join corresponding branches from the cord of the opposite side. From the ganglion impar twigs pass down- wards to enter the coccygeal body. There are no white rami from the sacral nerves to the sacral sympathetic ganglia, therefore all the medullated fibres contained in the sacral sympathetic cord have descended to it from the dorsal and lumbar regions. They include some vaso- constrictor and secretory fibres for the hind limb, pilo-motor fibres for the posterior part of the body, including, in the cat, the tail, and some vaso-constrictor fibres of the penis. The white rami of the sacral nerves are represented by their visceral branches, the so-called pelvic splanchnics. These contain motor fibres to the longitudinal muscle of the bladder, motor fibres for the longitudinal and inhibitory fibres for the circular muscle of the rectum, motor fibres for the uterus, secretory fibres for the prostate gland, and vaso-dilator fibres for the penis. 53