SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1090 To find the fissure of Rolando the following methods have been employed. In a given ease it is well to employ them all, so that any error in one may be checked by another measurement: I. The upper and lower Rolandic points are found as above directed, and the Rolandic line is drawn between them. II. 'The upper Rolandic point is taken two inches behind the bregma, or junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures. The position of the lower end of the fissure is thus determined: From the very end of the external orbital process, where this rises up to join the temporal crest, draw a horizontal line two and a quarter inches long, and from the extreme end of this draw a vertical line of a little over one inch. Between these upper and lower Rolandic points, passing rather obliquely forwards, lies the fissure of Rolando (Lucas, Championniere). III. Here (1) the sagittal line is taken; (2) and (3) at a right angle to this two lines are drawn vertically over the side of the skull,—the one starting from the pre-auricular point (fig. 666), the other at the level of the posterior border of the mastoid process,—and meeting the sagittal line about two inches behind the second; (4) from the junction of the lines 1 and 3, one is drawn diagonally down- Fig. 666.—Craniocerebral Topographv. (Anderson and Makins.) SQUAMOSAL POINT Course of posterior division POINT OF BIFURCATION OF PREAURICULAR POINT of middle meningeal artery SYLVIAN FISSURE wards, reaching 2 about two inches above and a little in front of the external auditory meatus (Reid and Godlee). IV. The fissure of Rolando may be found by the measurements given by Makins and Anderson (fig. 666). The external parieto-occipital fissures.—The upper end of this will appear just in front of the lambda. Before leaving this subject, the attention of the student and surgeon is drawn to fig. 666 and the method which it illustrates—that of Anderson and Makins. As claimed by these surgeons and anatomists, their method fulfils the requirements of any practical scheme of cranio-cerebral topography, viz.: (1) The cranial landmarks employed shall be distinct, and subject as little as possible to variations in rela- tion to the general proportions of the skull-cap; (2) that the guiding lines, drawn by the aid of these landmarks, shall adapt themselves to skulls of varying size and conformation; and (3.) that no special apparatus shall be required for the localisa- tion. The method recommended by Anderson and Makins is the following: The