1010 THE URINARY ORGANS The outer border of the kidney reaches a point about three and a half or four inches external to the lumbar spinous processes. On the right side, it is in contact with the liver in its upper half or two-thirds; on the left, its upper third or half rests against the renal groove in the posterior portion of the visceral surface of the spleen. The inner border of the right kidney approaches very close to the vena cava, especially above; that of the left is divided from the aorta by an interval of an inch or more. The position of the kidneys at the back of the abdominal cavity involves a cer- tain amount of pressure upon the organs and their vessels and nerves by the weight of the viscera in front when the body is supine, and there is reason to believe that their secretory functions are consequently influenced by changes of posture to an extent that may be utilised in therapeutics. The structures lying within the sinus are the renal artery and vein, the renal lymphatics (vessels and glands), a plexus of nerves, the duct, and more or less con- nective and adipose tissue continuous with the fatty capsule. The renal artery is a branch of the aorta given off opposite the first lumbar vertebra and behind the pancreas. On reaching the hilum it usually breaks up into four branches, three of which pass in front of the pelvis to supply the superior, middle, and inferior zones of the organ, while a fourth runs behind the pelvis close to the posterior lip of the hilum and is distributed over the lower half or two-thirds. This may be wounded in an attempt to remove a calculus by incision of the posterior wall of the pelvis. Besides these, irregular vessels may pierce the gland above or below the hilum (fig. 607). The left renal vein receives the spermatic or utero-ovarian vein, and is usually somewhat lower than the right. The shortness of the right renal vein should be remembered in the operation of nephrectomy. Structure.—The kidney when removed from its fatty investment is seen as a yellowish-red organ covered by a thin but strong fibrous capsule (tunica propria), which is prolonged through the hilum into the sinus, where it becomes continuous with the sheaths of the renal vessels, and extends as far as the attachments of the subdivisions of the duct around the renal papilla?. The whole capsule may be easily peeled off from the healthy kidney, except at the bottom of the sinus, where it is fixed by the vessels and duct; and as the capsular vessels are of small size, the process of stripping is attended with little haemorrhage when practised in the course of operations upon the living subject. On section through the kidney, its substance is found to comprise an external or cortical and an inner or medullary segment. The medulla consists of a variable number (eight to eighteen) of conical segments called pyramids of Malpighi, the apices of which project into the bottom of the sinus (fig. G09) and are surrounded by the primary segments (calices) of the duct, while their bases are turned towards the surface, but are separated from it and from each other by the cortex. The pyramids average in their axial diameter about three-quarters of an inch, and have a width at the base of about two-thirds of an inch (16 mm.). They are smooth and somewhat glistening in section, and marked with delicate striae which converge from base to apex, and indicate the course of the uriniferous tubules. The blunted apex, or papilla, single or blended with one or even two of its fellows, is embraced by a calyx, and if examined with a hand lens will be seen to present a variable number (twelve to eighty) of minute apertures, the foramina papillaria, through which the secretion escapes into the duct. The cortex may be divided into two portions: a peripheral layer, the cortex proper, which is a little less than half an inch (12 mm.) in thickness, and extends from the capsule to the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi; and processes called columns of Bertin, which dip inwards between the Malpighian pyramids to reach the bottom of the sinus, where they are covered by the fibrous capsule and more or less adipose tissue (fig. 613). In section the cortex is somewhat granular in aspect, and in an injected kidney is seen to be dotted with minute points corresponding to vascular glomeruli lying within the csecal origin of the uriniferous tubules (capsules of Bowman). Examined more closely, it displays a number of small pyramidal groups of tubules, some belonging to the cortex proper, with their bases resting upon the bases of the Malpighian pyramids, the apices directed towards, but not reaching,