CERVICALIS ASCENDENS—LONGISSIMUS DORSI All Origin.—The upper ^borders of the angles of the seventh to the eleventh ribs and the back of the last rib. Insertion.—The back of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, the first rib just external to its tubercle, and the angles of the second to the fifth ribs. 4. CERVICALIS ASCENDENS The cervicalis ascendens—named from its position in the neck and its direction—is a still thinner musculotendinous band with serrated margins. Origin.—The back of the four or five upper ribs just internal to the insertion of the preceding muscle. Insertion.—The back of the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. Structure.—These three sections form a compound muscle, composed for the most part of fusiform bellies with tendinous origins and insertions, placed in series so that the origins of the higher slips are on a level with the insertions of those that arise six or seven vertebrae or ribs lower down. The lowest of the series arise directly from the muscular mass of the erector spinas; and the insertions of these lower slips, especially those into the lumbar fascia and last rib, are fleshy. A part of the tendinous origin of the slips of muscle is so closely blended that a complete separation of the muscle into its component parts is impossible. There is a gradual diminution of the size of each component muscle and its tendons as we trace the compound mass upwards. Nerve-supply.—The external branches of the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves from the lower cervical nerves to the last thoracic. Action.—(1) To extend the vertebral column, in the lower cervical, thoracic, and upper lumbar regions; (2) to flex it laterally in these regions; (3) to depress the ribs, and so help in expiration. Relations.—Superficially, the trapezius, rhomboidei, latissimus dorsi, the ser- ratus posticus superior and inferior, and the two splenii; deeply, the intercostal muscles and the levatores costarum; internally, the muscles of the middle division, and the external divisions of the posterior spinal nerves. Middle Division The middle division extends along the back of the transverse processes of the lumbar and thoracic vertebrae, the articular processes, and adjacent part of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebras, and ends at the mastoid pro- cess of the temporal bone. It consists of the longissimus dorsi, transver- salis colli, and trachelo-mastoid. 5. LONGISSIMUS DORSI The longissimus dorsi—named from its great length and its position in the dorsal region—is a compound muscle forming a long band, with its surfaces directed outwards and inwards, and an anterior margin provided with an outer and inner row of teeth by which it is inserted. Origin.—(1) The middle part of the erector spinas; and (2) the transverse processes of some of the lower thoracic vertebras. Insertion.—Externally: (1) the lower border of the back of the transverse processes of the upper lumbar vertebras; (2) the lower border of the ribs just exter- nal to their tubercles. Internally: (1) The accessory tubercles of the upper lumbar and lower thoracic vertebras; and (2) the back of the transverse processes of the rest of the thoracic vertebras. 27