THE MANDIBLE 63 the genial tubercles there is a shallow smooth depression, the sublingual fossa ; below this is the digastric fossa for the insertion of the anterior belly of the digas- tric muscle. Posterior to the genial tubercles, the internal oblique line (mylo- hyoid ridge) commences and extends backwards, becoming more and more promi- nent as it approaches the alveolar border. The mylo-hyoid muscle arises along the whole length of this ridge. At the posterior part the superior constrictor takes origin, and the pterygo-maxillary ligament is attached to its posterior extremity. Below the internal oblique line is the submaxillary fossa, which is in relation with the submaxillary gland. The inferior border of the body of the mandible is smooth and rounded; in the anterior part of its extent it gives attachment to the platysma; near its junction with the ramus there is a groove for the facial artery. The superior border is composed of spongy bone, and is named the alveolar process; it presents sockets or alveoli for eight teeth. From the external surface of the alveolar process, as far forwards as the first molar tooth, the buccinator muscle takes origin. Fig. 73.—The Mandible. (Outer view.) Temporal CORONOiD PROCESS SIGMOID NOTCH External pterygoid Platysma Depressor anguli oris GROOVE FOR FACIAL ARTERY EXTERNAL OBLIQUE LINE The ramus is quadrilateral in shape. It has two surfaces, four borders, and two processes. The external surface is for the insertion of the masseter muscle. The internal surface presents near its middle the mandibular (inferior dental) foramen which leads into the mandibular (inferior dental) canal which traverses the body of the bone and emerges at the mental foramen. This canal presents a series of fine apertures above, through which filaments of the mandibular nerve and artery pass to the teeth. In its posterior two-thirds, the canal ismearer the internal, in its anterior third, it is nearer the external surface of the mandible. The posterior orifice of the canal is surmounted by the mandibular spine to which the spheno-mandibular ligament is attached. Running obliquely downwards behind this spine is the mylo-hyoid groove, which lodges the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery. In the embryo, Meckel's cartilage also occupies the groove. The triangular rovfoh space behind this groove is for the insertion of the internal pterygoid muscle. The inferior border of the ramus is thick, rounded, and continuous with the lower border of the body of the bone. The posterior border is rounded; to its lower part the stylo-mandibular ligament is attached. This border is surmounted