SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF UPPER EXTREMITY 641 blood from the fingers are superficial and dorsally placed, the arteries are deep and situated towards the palmar surface. Minute vena? comites, however, lie on each side of the digital arteries. The anterior median plexus is situated on the fore part of the wrist. It is very irregular in its arrangement, and receives a few small branches from the palm and from the outer and front part of the thumb. The superficial radial vein begins at the radial end of the dorsal venous plexus or arch, and, after receiving veins from the thumb and communicating with the deep veins accompanying the radial artery, courses up the radial side of the forearm along with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. It receives numerous branches from the front and outer surface of the forearm, and a little above the bend of the elbow, in the slight sulcus at the outer side of the bicipital prominence, unites with the median cephalic vein to form the cephalic vein (figs. 395, 396). It contains from four to six valves. The anterior superficial ulnar vein begins on the inner and front surface of the wrist, runs up the inner side of the forearm, and joins the posterior ulnar vein just below the bend of the elbow; or it may unite directly with the median basilic to form the basilic vein. In the latter case the posterior superficial ulnar vein joins the basilic (fig. 395). The anterior ulnar vein is accompanied by the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. It contains about four valves. The posterior superficial ulnar vein, larger than the anterior, begins at the ulnar side of the dorsal plexus. It receives the vena salvatella, or vein of the little finger, and communicates with the deep ulnar veins by means of an inter- muscular branch which passes beneath the abductor minimi digiti. As it courses upwards on the posterior aspect of the forearm it receives numerous cutaneous branches, and near the bend of the elbow joins the anterior superficial ulnar vein. Just below the internal condyle the united trunk turns forwards to unite with the median basilic to form the basilic vein. When the basilic is formed by the union of the anterior ulnar and median basilic (fig. 395), the posterior ulnar vein may end in the ba'silic vein direct. It contains about four valves. The superficial median vein begins in the anterior plexus in front of the wrist, and passes up the centre of the front of the forearm, receiving numerous cutaneous branches, and communicating on each side with the superficial ulnar and radial veins. At the bend of the elbow it receives the deep median vein, which is formed by the union of the outer vena comes of the ulnar artery with the mus- cular and radial recurrent veins. The short trunk pierces the deep fascia to join the median vein, which immediately afterwards bifurcates into the median basilic and median cephalic. The median cephalic vein, the smaller branch of the median, runs upwards and outwards in the sulcus between the biceps and supinatus longus, and, joining the superficial radial vein immediately above the bend of the elbow, forms the cephalic vein. The musculo-cutaneous nerve passes beneath it, a few fibres of the nerve lying superficial to it. The median basilic vein, the larger of the two divisions of the median vein, runs upwards and inwards across the semilunar fascia of the biceps, by which it is separated from the brachial artery, to the internal bicipital sulcus, where it joins one of the superficial ulnar veins or their united trunk to form the basilic. Fibres of the internal cutaneous nerve pass both in front and behind it. This vein is especially prominent at the bend of the elbow; and, on account of its larger size and superficial position, was usually chosen in venesection when this operation was in vogue. The lancet, if care was not taken, was liable to pass through the bicipital fascia and injure the artery, when varicose aneurysm or aneurysmal varix was a common result. The cephalic vein, formed by the union of the median cephalic with the super- ficial radial vein, courses upwards first in the external bicipital sulcus, and then in the interval between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, perforates the costo- coracoid membrane, and, crossing the first part of the axillary artery, opens into the axillary vein. It contains a pair of valves where it joins the axillary vein. The basilic vein—formed by the union of the median basilic and one of the superficial ulnar veins or their united trunk—passes up the inner side of the arm 41