619 VENOUS SINUSES OF THE CRANIUM and, coursing downwards to the posterior inferior angle of that bone, passes either through a foramen in its inner table, or through the mastoid foramen into the lateral sinus. The occipital, or parieto-occipital, ramifies chiefly in the occipital bone, and opens into the occipital vein or into the lateral sinus. The diploic veins freely anastomose with one another in the adult; but in the foetus, before the bones have united, each system of veins is distinct. 2. THE VENOUS SINUSES OF THE CRANIUM The venous sinuses of the cranium are endothelially lined blood-spaces, situ- ated between the periosteal and meningeal layers of the dura mater. They are the channels by which the blood is conveyed from the cerebral veins, and from some of the veins of the meninges and diploe, into the veins of the neck. The sinuses of the base of the skull also carry the chief part of the blood from the orbit and eyeball to the jugular veins. At certain spots the sinuses communicate with the superficial veins by small vessels known as the emissary veins, which run through foramina in the cranial bones. The venous sinuses are eighteen in number: six being disposed medianly and singly; six laterally and in pairs. The median and single sinuses are:—(1) the superior longitudinal; (2) the inferior longitudinal; (3) the straight; (4) the occipital; (5) the circular; and (6) the transverse or basilar. The lateral and paired sinuses are:—(7) the two lateral; (8) the two superior petrosal; (9) the two inferior petrosal; (10) the two cavernous; (11) the two spheno-parietal (sinus alae parvae), and (12) the two sigmoid—which latter, however, are usually described as part of the lateral. Occasionally there are two additional sinuses (the two petro- squamous), due to the persistence in the adult of what in the foetus was the con- tinuation of the lateral sinus. (1) The superior longitudinal sinus, or superior sagittal sinus (fig. 388), lies in the median groove on the inner surface of the calvarium along the attached margin of the falx cerebri. It extends from the foramen caecum to the internal occipital protuberance. It grooves from before backwards the frontal bone, the contiguous sagittal margin of the parietal bones, and the squamous portion of the occipital bone. In the foetus it communicates, through the foramen caecum, with the nasal veins, and generally throughout life with the superficial temporal vein through the parietal foramen. It is triangular on section, the base of the triangle corresponding to the bone. Crossing it are a number of fibrous bands known as the chordae Willisii, and projecting into it in places are the Pacchionian bodies. In front the sinus is quite small, but it increases greatly in calibre as it runs back- wards. It receives at intervals the superior cortical cerebral veins and the veins from the falx. The former, for the most part, open into it in the direction opposite to that in which the blood is flowing in the sinus. They pass for some distance in the walls of the sinus before opening into it. Posteriorly, at the internal occipital protuberance, the superior longitudinal sinus usually turns sharply to the right, and ends in the right lateral sinus; the straight sinus then usually terminates in the left lateral sinus, and the right and left lateral sinuses communicate with each other across the occipital protuberance. Occasionally, however, the superior longitudinal sinus ends in the left lateral sinus, the straight then passing into the right. At other times the posterior end of the superior longitudinal sinus at the internal occipital protuberance becomes slightly dilated, forming what is called the torcular Herophili, or confluence of the sinuses. When this dilatation exists, the straight sinus usually opens into it in front, the two lateral sinuses on either side, the superior longitudinal above, the occipital sinus or sinuses, when two are present, below. The torcular may communicate with the occipital vein through the occipital emissary vein, which, when present, passes through a minute foramen in the occipital protuberance. (2) The inferior longitudinal or inferior sagittal sinus (fig. 388) is situated at the free margin of the falx cerebri. Beginning about the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the falx, it is continued backwards along the concave or