1182 SURGICAL AXD TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY THE KNEE Bony landmarks.—The patella, the condyles, the tuberosities of the tibia, the tubercle of the tibia, the head of the fibula. The patella.—The limb being supported in the straight position, and the extensor muscles relaxed, the numerous longitudinal strise or sulci on the anterior surface of this bone can be detected. In these are embedded tendinous bundles of the rectus, so as to give firmer leverage. The fact that these fibres, thus tied down, Fig. 748.—The Gluteal Eegiox, with the Gluteal, Sciatic, and Pudic Arteries. (From a dissection by W. J. Walsham iu St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.) The inferior gluteal branch of the sciatic artery has been drawn inwards over the tuber ischii with the reflected origin of the gluteus maxiuius muscle. Gluteus medius, turned up INFERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE Gluteus minimus Gluteus masimus, cut Internal circumflex artery Obturator esternus Muscular branches of sciatic artery Deep branch of gluteal artery SUPERIOR GLUTEAL SERVE Insertion of gluteus medius External circumflex artery Pyriformis perforated by peroneal portion of sciatic nerve Cut edge of gluteus maximua Pudic artery and nerve Sciatic artery Insertion gluteus maximus 1 Eirst perforating artery Quadratus femoris Semi-tendinosus Semi-membranosus Branch of internal circumflex artery Obturator internus with the two gemelli LESSER SCIATIC NERVE Arteria comes neruiischiatici POPLITEA I. POR TION OF GREA T SCI A TIC NEB I E LONG PUDENDAL NERVE PERONEAL PORTION OF GREAT SCIATIC NERVE are liable to fold in between the ends of the bone after fracture, is a ready explana- tion of tbe difficulty of ensuring bony union here (Macewen). The patella is separated from the tibia by a pad of fat and a deep bursa, save at its insertion. It has the following relation to the femur in different positions:—(1) In extension, the patella rises over the condyles, and in full extension only the lower third of its articular surface rests upon that of the condyles; its upper two-thirds lies upon the bed of fat which covers the lower and front part of the femur. (2) In extreme flexion, as the prominent anterior surface of the condyles affords leverage to tbe