172 THE SKELETON Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery of the shaft enters on the inner (tibial) side and runs towards the base. The FIFTH METATARSAL has on the fibular side of its base a large nipple- shaped tuberosity, to which the tendon of the peroneus brevis is inserted. Its oblique terminal facet articulates with the cuboid, and on the tibial side it has a large facet for the fourth metatarsal. The plantar aspect of the base has a shallow groove which lodges the abductor minimi digiti. Muscles:— Third plantar interosseous. Peroneus tertius. Fourth dorsal interosseous. Abductor ossis metatarsi quinti. Peroneus brevis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Fig. 187.—The Fifth (Left) Metatarsal. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery enters on the tibial side of the shaft and runs towards the base. Ossification.—Each metatarsal ossifies from two centres. The primary nucleus for the diaphysis appears in the eighth week of embryonic life in the middle of the cartilaginous metatarsal. At birth, each extremity is represented by cartilage, and that at the proximal end is ossified by extension from the primary nucleus, except in the case of the first metatarsal. For this, a nucleus appears in the third year. The distal ends of the four outer metatarsals are ossified by secondary nuclei which make their appearance about the third year. Very frequently an epiphysis is found at the distal end of the first metatarsal as well as at its base. The shafts and epiphyses consolidate at the twentieth year. The sesamoids belonging to the flexor brevis hallucis begin to ossify about the fifth year. THE PHALANGES There are fourteen phalanges to each foot. The hallux has two, and the remaining toes three each. They are usually distinguished as first, second, and third. The last are sometimes called the ungual phalanges, because they support the nail. The phalanges of the first row have narrow laterally compressed shafts, rounded on the dorsal and concave on the plantar aspects. The base of each has a deep