208 THE ARTICULATIONS in part, from the internal pudic and in part from the ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal. The movements amount only to a slight yielding of the cartilage; neither muscular force nor extrinsic forces produce any appreciable movement in the ordinary condition. Occasionally, as the result of child-bearing, the joint becomes unnaturally loose, and then walking and standing are painfully unsteady. It is known that, during pregnancy and parturition, the symphysial cartilage becomes softer and more vascular, so as to permit the temporary enlargement of the pelvis; but it must be remembered that the fibres of the oblique muscles decussate, and thus, during labour, while they force the head of the foetus down, they strengthen the joint by bracing the bones more tightly together. 4. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS WITH THE VERTEBRAE These consist of two sets, viz.:— (a) The costo-central: i.e. the articulation of the head of the rib with the vertebras. (b) The costo-transverse, or the articulation of the tubercle (of each of the first ten ribs) with the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebras, with wbich the head of the rib articulates: i.e. the one bearing its own number, as the first rib with the first thoracic vertebra, the second rib with the second thoracic vertebra, and so on. («) The Costo-central Articulation Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Gondylarthrosis. It is a very perfect joint, into the formation of which the head of the rib and two vertebrae, with the intervertebral disc between them, enter. In the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, it is formed by the head of the rib articulating with a single vertebra. The ligaments arc:— Capsular. Interarticular. Stellate or anterior costo-central. The capsular ligament (fig. 214) consists of short, strong, woolly fibres, com- pletely surrounding the joint, which are attached to the bones and intervertebral substances, a little beyond their articular margins. At its upper part .it reaches through the intervertebral foramen towards the back of the bodies of the vertebras, being strengthened here by fibres which at intervals connect the anterior with the posterior common ligaments. The lower fibres extend downwards nearly to the demi-facet of the rib below; behind, it is continuous with the middle costo- transverse ligament, and in front is overlaid by the stellate. The interarticular ligament (fig. 215) consists of short, strong fibres, closely interwoven with the outermost ring of the intervertebral disc, and attached to the transverse ridge separating the articular facets on the head of the rib. It completely divides the articulations into two parts, but does not brace the rib tightly to the spine, being loose enough to allow a moderate amount of rotation on its own axis. There is no interarticular ligament in the costo-vertebral joints of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs. The anterior costo-central or stellate ligament (figs. 215 and 216) is the most striking of all, and consists of bright, pearly-white fibres attached to the anterior surface, and upper and lower borders of the neck of the rib, a little way beyond the articular facet; from this they radiate upwards, forwards, and down- wards, so as to form a continuous layer of distinct and sharply defined fibres. The middle fibres run straight forward to be attached to the intevertebral disc; the upper ascend to the lower half of the lateral surface of the vertebra above, and the lower descend to the upper half of the vertebra below.