vii PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. In preparing this Edition the work has been carefully, and it is hoped thor- oughly, revised, both in regard to the descriptive text and the illustrations. Some new cuts have been added, and in a few instances new ones have been substituted for those in the First Edition. A description of the Skin has been added by Mr. Anderson ; and an additional section at the end of the volume, on " Vestigial and Abnormal Structures," has been supplied by the pen of Dr. Robinson. The Editor has been fortunate in obtaining the assistance of the original authors of the various sections in all cases but two. Dr. Arthur Robinson has revised the section on the Nervous System instead of Dr. H. St. John Brooks ; and also those which were written by the late Mr. Arthur Hensman. The Editor has to thank many kind friends, and others personally unknown to him, both in the United Kingdom and in America, for numerous and valuable suggestions, and for corrections of typographical errors, which regrettably but almost unavoidably had crept into the first edition. Great attention has been given to all of these suggestions. Many of them have been adopted, and, if all have not been, it is because they were not in accord with the object and intention of the work. For instance, one friendly critic thinks that in order to make it complete as a text-book the Minute Anatomy of the Viscera must be added ; this would be entirely inconsistent with our aim, which is to make the book complete as " a systematic description of every part and organ of the human body as it is studied in the dissecting room." Minute anatomy must be studied, of course ; but in the histological laboratory, not in the dissecting room, or at the demon- strator's classes on Topographical Anatomy. It is hoped that this revised edition will receive the confidence of the Teachers, and find favour with the Students whose labours the book is intended to facilitate. Cavendish Square, London : Sejrtember 7, 1898.