4G9 THE ARCH OF THE AORTA Behind are the left auricle of the heart, the right pulmonary artery, the right bronchus, and the anterior right deep cardiac nerves. On the right side it is in contact, below with the right auricle, and above with the superior vena cava. On the left side are the pulmonary artery and the branches of the right super- ficial cardiac nerves. The Transverse Portion of the Arch of the Aorta The transverse portion of the arch of the aorta extends in a gentle curve upwards, backwards, and to the left, from the level of the upper border of the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the body of the fourth thoracic vertebra. Passing under the arch are the left bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. It measures about one inch and four-fifths (4-5 cm.). Relations.—In front (fig. 323), it is slightly overlapped by the right pleura Fig. 323.—Scheme of the Relations of the Transverse Portion of the Arch of the Aorta. (Walsham.) and lung, and to a greater extent by the left pleura and lung. It is crossed in the following order from right to left, by the phrenic nerve, by the cardiac branches of the pneumogastric nerve, the cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, by the pneumogastric nerve, and by the left superior intercostal vein as it passes up to the left innominate vein. Behind it (fig. 323) are the trachea, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, the deep cardiac plexus which is situated on the trachea just above its bifurcation, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Above it (fig. 321) are the three chief branches for the head, neck, and upper extremities, namely, the innominate, the left carotid and the left subclavian arte- ries, and the left innominate vein. Below it—that is, in its concavity—are the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the left bronchus, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, the superficial cardiac plexus, two or more bronchial lymphatic glands (fig. 321), and the reflexion of the pericardium.