THE ARTICULATIONS 178 examples of this form of joint are the elbow and ankle. The knee is a much less perfect instance. 4. Trochoides, or wheel-like joints, where one bone rotates upon another. This name is given to an articulation in which either a pivot revolves in a ring, as in the superior radio-ulnar; or the ring revolves about a pivot, as in the atlanto-odontoid, and in a much less perfect form in the inferior radio-ulnar joint, Rotation is the only movement, 5. Arthrodia, a more or less simple gliding joint formed by the apposition of two plane, or nearly plane, or concavo-convex surfaces. The amount of movement is very variable in the different joints. Whilst in some, as the intermetacarpal, it is so slight that the joints have, by some writers, been described as amphiarthrosis, others are capable of all the movements of a ball-and-socket joint except rotation. The articular processes of the vertebra? and the carpal and tarsal joints are good examples of the ordinary arthrodia, but under this head are also included the '' saddle-shaped'' articulations, such as the sterno-costo-clavicular and the carpo- metacarpal of the thumb, which permit the four angular movements and circum- duction, but not rotation. Table of the Various Classes of Joints Class. Examples. I. Synarthrosis (a) True sutures Lambdoid, sagittal, coronal. (b) False sutures Internasal. Intermaxillary. Costo-chon- dral. (c) Grooved sutures Vomer and rostrum of sphenoid. II. Amphiarthrosis III. Diarthrosis (a) Enarthrosis (6) Condylarthrosis (c) Ginglymus or Trocblearthrosis . (rf) Trochoides or Lateral Gingly- mus (e) Arthrodia: (1) Simple (2) Saddle-shaped . . . Bodies of vertebra?. Symphysis pubis, sacro-iliac, sacro-coccygeal. Shoulder. Hip. Astragalo-scaphoid. Temporo-mandibular. Occipito-atlantal. Radio-carpal. Metacarpophalangeal. Metatarso-phalangeal. Elbow. Ankle. Knee. Interphalangeal of fingers and toes. Atlanto-odontoid. Superior Radio-ulnar. Inferior Radio-ulnar. Lateral atlanto-axoidean. The joints be- tween the articular processes of the vertebra?, costo-transverse and inter- chondral. Acromio-clavicular. Carpal. Carpo-metacarpal of four fingers. Inter- metacarpal. Tarsal. Tarso-metatarsal. Intermetatarsal. Calcaneo-astragaloid. Superior and inferior tibio-fibular. Sterno-costo-clavicular. Carpo-metacar- pal of thumb. Calcaneo-cuboid.