787 BRANCHES OF BRACHIAL PLEXUSES the component nerves are separate from each other. In the second stage the nerves unite with one another to form three trunks. In the third stage the trunks divide into anterior and posterior divisions. In the fourth stage the six divisions become collected into three rounded bundles, which are termed cords. The hfth and sixth, and usually a communicating twig from the fourth, cervical nerves unite to form the upper trunk ; the seventh remains independent and forms the middle trunk ; the eighth cervical and first thoracic, with occasionally a com- municating twig from the second thoracic, unite to form the lower trunk. Each of these trunks divides into an anterior and a posterior division. The anterior and posterior divisions of the upper and middle trunks are about equal in size. The anterior division of the lower trunk is very much larger than the posterior division. The three posterior divisions unite to form the posterior cord. The anterior divisions of the upper and middle trunks join to form the outer cord. The anterior division of the lower trunk is continued into the inner cord. The first stage of the plexus is situated upon the middle scalene in the posterior triangle of the neck. The second stage is placed in the posterior inferior triangle of the neck, the lower trunk of the plexus being behind the third stage of the subclavian artery and the upper and middle trunks above and on a plane posterior to that vessel. When a posterior scapular artery arises from the third stage of the subclavian, it passes backwards between the trunks of the plexus. In its third stage the plexus lies under cover of the clavicle and subclavius muscle, and is placed above, external, and on a plane posterior to the axillary artery. In its fourth stage the plexus is situated under cover of the pectoral muscles, and the cords surround the second stage of the axillary artery, occupying the positions indicated by their names, the external cord being in contact with the outer side of the artery, the internal cord on the inner side, and the posterior cord behind the vessel. A little external to the outer border of the pectoralis minor, the plexus terminates by dividing into large nerves, which surround the third stage of the axillary artery. The branches of the brachial plexus are classified into branches which arise above the clavicle, and branches which are given off below that bone. The branches which arise below the clavicle may be conveniently subdivided into short branches which end in the axilla, and long branches which arise from the terminations of the three cords and are destined to supply the shoulder, arm, forearm, and hand. Beanches given off above the Clavicle These are all muscular branches, and comprise the following nerves:—(1) Supra- scapular; (2) rhomboid; (3) posterior thoracic; (4) communicating to the phrenic; nerves to (5) the subclavius, (6) scaleni, and (7) longus colli. (1) The suprascapular nerve arises from the upper trunk of the plexus, and therefore contains fibres derived from the fifth and sixth, and in some cases from the fourth, cervical nerves. It runs downwards and outwards, crosses internal to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and passes under cover of the trapezius to reach the suprascapular notch; here it crosses the suprascapular artery, and takes a lower position than that vessel. It then passes through the suprascapular notch beneath the transverse ligament, and, after furnishing a twig to the shoulder joint, divides into a supraspinous and an infraspinous branch. The supraspinous branch inclines inwards and ends in the supraspinatus muscle. The infraspinous branch passes through the great scapular notch under cover of the spino-glenoid ligament, and terminates in the infraspinatus muscle. (2) The nerve to the rhomboids arises from the fifth cervical nerve shortly after its exit from the intervertebral foramen. It arises in common with the upper root of the posterior thoracic nerve, and passes backwards and outwards through the fibres of the scalenus medius. It then usually divides in a plexiform manner into several branches, the strongest of which passes below the levator anguli scapulae, while the others traverse the lowest division of that muscle and supply it with one or more twigs. In the cellular interval between the levator and the rhom- boideus minor, the twigs reunite to form one nerve, which passes to the deep surface of the two rhomboid muscles and supplies them.