17 THE SPINAL COLUMN The apex is directed downwards and forwards, and is formed by the inferior aspect of the body of the fifth sacra] vertebra; it articulates by means of an inter- vertebral disc with the coccyx. In advanced life the coccyx and sacrum ankylose at this spot. The lateral surface presents in the upper two-thirds a broad irregular tract called the auricular process, which is rough and, in the recent state, covered with fibro-cartilage for union with the ilium. The margins are rough for liga- ments. Below the auricular surface each lateral border forms a tuberosity and gives attachment to the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments. Near the extremity it presents a notch which is converted into a foramen by articulation with the coccyx. Through the space thus enclosed, the anterior branch of the fifth sacral nerve issues. Sometimes the foramen is represented by a notch even when the sacrum and coccyx are articulated. The middle of the sacrum is occupied by a continuation of the spinal canal. It is triangular in form at the base, and flat- tened towards the apex. It lodges the terminal branches of the Cauda equina, the filum terminale, and the lower extremity of the dura mater. The sacrum exhibits sexual and racial differences. In the female it is usually wider, much less curved, and is directed more obliquely backwards, than in the male, and in the lower races the sacrum is relatively longer than in the higher. Muscles.—-The following muscles are attached to the sacrum:—Pyriformis, coccygeus, iliacus, latissimus dorsi, multifidus spina?, erector spina?, gluteus maxi- mus; and the occasional muscles, namely, curvator coccygis, extensor coccygis, and the agitator caudse. Ligaments.—Anterior and posterior common ligaments of the spine; anterior and posterior sacro-coccygeal; greater and lesser sacro-sciatic, anterior and posterior sacro-iliac, two capsular, ligamenta subflava, and the supraspinous. THE COCCYX The coccyx in the adult is made up of four and occasionally five vestigial ver- tebras ankylosed to one another. Rarely the number of segments is reduced to three. The first two segments contain, in addition to the body of a vertebra, traces of articular and transverse processes : the rest are mere nodules of bone, repre- senting centra. The anterior surface gives attachment to the anterior sacro-coccy- geal ligament; and near its tip to the levator ani; it is in relation with the posterior surface of the second part of the rectum. The posterior surface is convex, and presents above a laterally projecting process, the rudimentary transverse process of the first segment, and along its margin affords attachment to the gluteus maximus muscle. The lateral borders are thin: they receive parts of the greater sacro-sciatic liga- ments and of the coccygeus muscle. The base has an oval facet for the fifth sacral vertebra, and presents the two long coccygeal cornua, formed by the remains of the pedicles and superior articular processes of the first segment, for the posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament. The junction of the coccyx and sacrum completes the foramen of exit for the fifth sacral nerve. In many skeletons the foramen is incom- plete externally. The apex is rounded and gives attachment to the sphincter ani, and in front to the levator ani muscles on each side of the median line. THE SPINAL COLUMN IN GENERAL "When the various vertebrae are in their relative positions, the whole is termed the spinal column. It occupies the median line of the posterior aspect of the trunk. Superiorly, it supports the head; laterally, it gives attachment to the ribs; these in their turn receive the weight of the upper limbs. Inferiorly, the sacrum affords attachment to the innominate bones, by which the weight of the trunk is trans- mitted to the lower limbs. The spinal column is the axis of the skeleton. It varies in length in different persons, but on an average it measures, from the atlas to the tip of the coccyx, following the curve, 70 cm. (28"). Of this, the 2