OF THE PELVIS 203 foramen, and from the coccyx nearly as far as its tip. By its apex it is attached to the front surface and the borders of the ischial spine as far outwards as its base. Its fibres decussate so that the lower ones at the coccyx become the highest at the ischial spine; muscular fibres are often seen intermingled with the ligamentous. It is situated in front of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, with which it is closely connected at the sacrum, and separates the greater from the lesser sacro- sciatic foramen. Its front surface gives attachment to the cocqjgeus muscle, which overlies it. Behind, it is connected with, and hidden by, the great sacro-sciatic ligament, so that only the outer inch or less (2 cm.) and a small part of its attach- ment to the coccyx, can be seen; the internal pudic nerve also passes over the posterior surface. The arterial supply comes from the gluteal, ilio-lumbar, and lateral sacral. The nerve-supply is from the superior gluteal, sacral plexus, and external twigs of the posterior divisions of the first and second sacral nerves. The movements.—It is quite clear, from the nature of the osseous surfaces,' Fig. 208.—Saceo-sciatic Ligaments. (Posterior view.) from the wedge-shape of the sacrum, and the manner in which it is locked in between the hip-bones, as well as from the amphiarthrodial character of the articu- lation, that there can be no movement at the sacro-iliac joint. While the joint serves the useful purpose of breaking shocks, the cartilage is too thin and too firmly fixed to the bones to allow even of appreciable yielding, such as occurs upon the intervertebral discs. The double wedge-shape of the sacrum, with its broader surface at the base and in front, prevents dislocation from forces acting from above downwards, and from before backwards. The sinuous character of the opposed surfaces of the sacrum and ilium, the for- ward and inward direction of the fibres of the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament which pass from ilium to sacrum, as well as the ilio-lumbar and sacro-lumbar ligaments, prevent forward displacement of the base of the sacrum; while the sacro-sciatic ligaments prevent the tilting backwards of its apex. Thus rotation forwards is entirely prevented. The shape of the sacrum prevents its downward displacement, while the weight