551 ABDOMINAL AORTA aortic plexus of the sympathetic nerve, the spermatic or ovarian arteries, the infe- rior mesenteric artery, the median lumbar lymphatic glands and lymphatic vessels, and the small intestines. Of these structures the solar plexus, the aortic plexus, the splenic vein or the commencement of the vena porta, the pancreas, the left renal vein, the duodenum, the lymphatics, the spermatic or ovarian arteries, and the peritoneal reflexions are in contact with the aorta. Behind, the aorta lies upon the bodies of the lumbar vertebra? and intervening Fig. 363.—The Abdominal Aorta and its Branches, with the Inferior Vena Cava and its Tributaries. Cystic artery HEPATIC DUCT CYSTIC DUCT COMMON DUCT Portal vein Gaslro-duodenal br. Superior pyloric br. Hepatic artery Right suprarenal vein Inferior suprarenal artery Renal artery Renal vein Inferior vena Right spermatic vein Right spermatic artery Quadratus lumborum muscle Right lumbar artery and left lumbar vein Ureteric branch of spermatic artery Middle sacral vessels LEFT LOBE OF LIVER OESOPHAGUS Left phrenic artery Right phrenic artery Superior suprarenal Gastric artery Inferior suprarenal Splenic artery Left phrenic vein left suprarenal vein Superior mesenteric artery KIDNEY Ureteric branch of renal Left spermatic vein URETER Left spermatic artery Inferior mesenteric artery Ureteric branch of spermatic Ureteric branch of common iliac Common iliac artery External iliac artery Internal iliac artery intervertebral cartilages, the anterior common ligament, the origin of the left crus of the diaphragm, and the left lumbar veins. On the right side from above downwards are the right crus of the diaphragm, the great splanchnic nerve, the Spigelian lobe of the liver, the receptaculum chyli and beginning of the thoracic duct (the two latter structures are on a posterior plane), the right semilunar ganglion, and the vena cava inferior. On the left side are the left crus of the diaphragm, the left splanchnic nerve, and the left semilunar ganglion. The pancreas is also in contact with the aorta on the left side, as are, too, the small intestines, but separated from it by peritoneum.