328 THE MUSCLES brevis, the interosseous recurrent artery which runs through the deeper fibres of the muscle, the elbow and upper radio-ulnar joints; on its outer border, the extensor carpi ulnaris. Deep Layee The deep layer consists of five muscles: the supinator radii brevis; extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; extensor brevis pollicis; extensor longus pollicis; and the extensor indicis. Four of these arise from the bones of the forearm, and one only from the humerus also. 1. SUPINATOR RADII BREVIS The supinator radii brevis—named from its action and size in comparison with the brachio-radialis (= supinator longus)—is a rhomboidal sheet of muscular til ire curved upon itself into a somewhat cylindrical shape to wrap round the upper third of the radius. Origin.—(1) Lower and back part of external condyle; (2) the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint; (3) the orbicular ligament; (4) the triangular depression below the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, especially along its posterior margin, which forms the upper part of the external border of the ulna. Insertion.—(1) The back of the neck of the radius; (2) the anterior and outer surfaces of the radius above and at the upper border of the oblique line. Structure.—Its origin is partly fleshy and partly by a strong aponeurosis which covers the upper half of the muscle and gives attachment to some of the muscles in the superficial layer. The line of origin runs downwards and somewhat inwards from the external condyle to the outer border of the ulna, while that of insertion runs downwards and outwards from the tubercle of the radius to the impression for the pronator radii teres. Between these lines the fleshy fibres run in parallel curves wrapping round the upper third of the radius. The muscle is divided into a small superficial and more extensive deep plane by the posterior interosseous nerve which perforates it on its way to supply the muscles at the back of the forearm. The line of insertion is 1 n i iken at the tubercle of the radius by a notch in which lies the bursa in front of the attachment of the biceps tendon. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the sixth cervical nerve) by branches derived from the posterior interosseous division of the musculo-spiral nerve, which are given off from this nerve as it perforates the muscle. Action.—To supinate the radius upon the ulna. By its contraction the muscle unwraps itself from the radius; the tubercle of the radius is drawn for- wards, and the outer border of the bone backwards; and if the radius at the commencement of action be in the position of complete pronation, it will be caused by this muscle to revolve about the axis which passes through the centre of its head and the middle of the lower extremity of the ulna through nearly 180°. The action of this muscle will, unlike that of the biceps, be unaffected by the position of the elbow. This completes the list of muscles by which the rotation of the radius upon the ulna is effected. The biceps and supinator brevis are the supinators; the pronator teres and quadratus, the pronators. It should be remembered, however, that ordinary pronation and supination are effected by a more complicated movement than simple rotation of the radius, which would cause the hand to revolve around the axis of the little finger. The usual rotation, the axis of which movement passes through the line of the middle finger, involves a slight flexion and extension of the elbow with some movement of the shoulder-joint. Relations.—Superficially, the biceps, brachio-radialis, pronator radii teres, extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi