98 THE SKELETON THE RIBS AND STERNUM The ribs.—These form a series of narrow flattened bones, twenty-four in number, arranged in twelve pairs, extending from the sides of the thoracic vertebra? towards the median line on the anterior aspect of the trunk. The first seven pairs are termed true ribs, because their anterior ends are directly connected by means of cartilage with the sides of the sternum. The lower five—false ribs—are classed into two sets: the eighth, ninth, and tenth are connected together by their costal cartilages; the eleventh and twelfth have their anterior extremities free, and are called in consequence floating ribs. Thus the first seven are, vertebro-sternal; the eighth, ninth, and tenth, vertebro-chon- dral; the eleventh and twelfth, vertebral ribs. The ribs increase in length from the first to the seventh, and then decrease from this rib to the twelfth. In breadth they increase from behind forwards; the greatest breadth of a rib is at its junction with the costal cartilage. The two or three upper ribs form nearly a right angle with the spine, but the succeeding set curve obliquely downwards. The obliquity is greatest at the ninth, and then decreases in the ribs below. Typical characters of a rib.—The seventh is regarded as the most typical rib. It presents a vertebral extremity or head; a narrow portion or neck; a sternal end; and an intermediate portion, the shaft. The head has two facets divided by a horizontal crest. The crest is connected by an interosseous ligament with an intervertebral disc; the facets articulate with the demi-facets on the sides of the bodies of two vertebrae. As a rule, the lower facet is the larger, and articulates with the thoracic vertebra, to which the rib corresponds in number. This is the primary facet, and is the one represented in those ribs which possess only a single facet on the rib-head. The anterior margin is lipped for the costo-vertebral (stellate) ligament. The neck is that portion of the rib extending from the head to the tubercle. The posterior surface of the neck is in relation with the transverse process of the lower vertebra with which the head articulates; it forms the anterior boundary of the costo-transverse foramen, and is rough where it gives attachment to the middle costo-vertebral ligament. The superior border of the neck is continuous with the corresponding border of the shaft, and at the point where the neck ends this border is produced so as to form a crest {crista colli superior) for the anterior costo-transverse ligament. The inferior border of the neck is continuous with the ridge of the subcostal groove. This difference in the relation of the neck to the upper and lower borders of the rib shaft is useful in determining to which side a rib belongs. The tubercle consists of an upper part, rough for the posterior costo-transverse (rhomboid) ligament, and a lower faceted portion for articulation with the tip of the transverse process. The tubercle projects below the lower edge of the rib to form a crest (crista colli infcrio?'), marking the beginning of the subcostal groove. The shaft has two surfaces and two borders. It is strongly curved. At first the curve is in the same plane as the neck, but it quickly turns forwards at a spot on the posterior surface of the shaft known as the angle, where it gives attachment to the sacro-lumbalis muscle and some of its subdivisions. The rib has also a second or upward curve beginning at the angle. These curves are expressed by describing the main curve as disposed around a vertical, and the second or upward curve around a transverse axis. When a rib, except the first and twelfth, is laid with its lower edge upon the table, the rib-head rises and the rib touches the table at two places, viz. at the sternal end, and in the neighbourhood of the angle. The external surface of the rib is convex, and gives attachment to muscles. Near its anterior extremity it forms a somewhat abrupt curve, indicated by a ridge on the bone, which gives attachment to the serratus magnus muscle, and is some- times called the anterior angle.