1044 THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS gress, it may remain unbroken until parturition. An imperforate condition of the membrane is occasionally present, and may necessitate a surgical operation at the commencement of the menstrual period. Structure.—The vaginal wall is composed of three coats, fibrous, muscular, and mucous, and has a thickness of one-eighth to one-sixth of an inch. The outer fibrous coat is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and holds in its meshes a plexus of veins. The muscular coat comprises two layers of strong unstriped fibres, the outer longitudinal, continuous above with the uterine muscle and with the utero- sacral ligaments; and the inner circular and more largely developed near the vulvar aperture. The mucous membrane is highly elastic, beset with papillae and covered with a squamous laminated epithelium continuous with that of the os uteri and vulva. It has no glands, and hence the fluid which moistens it is rather of the nature of a transudation than of a secretion. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries are derived from an inferior branch of the uterine and from the internal iliac, communicating below with branches of the external pudic; they run along the lateral aspect of the passage and give twigs to the anterior and posterior surfaces. The veins, similarly disposed, form a rich network in the muscular and mucous coats, and terminate in the vaginal and uterine trunks. The lymphatics, arranged in two intercommunicating networks, mucous and muscular, from numerous trunks which accompany the veins and ter- minate in the pelvic glands, a few from the neighbourhood of the vestibule, however, reaching the inguinal glands. A small gland is occasionally found between the rectum and vagina. The Nerves come from the hypogastric plexus, the fourth sacral, and the pudic. THE UTERUS The uterus, or womb (figs. 635-638), is a hollow muscular organ lined with mucous membrane. It communicates above with the two Fallopian tubes, and below with the vagina, and lies within the pelvic cavity between the bladder and rectum, fixed in its place by folds of peritoneum and certain bands of unstriped muscle. It varies greatly in size and form at different periods of life and under different physiological conditions. The adult uterus is flattened from before backwards, pyriform in its outlines when seen from the front, and is divided into two main portions, body and cervix, by a transverse constriction, the isthmus. The isthmus may be regarded as the weak point in the organ, and it is here that the various pathological flexions take place. Its position in the virgin uterus is about midway between the two extremi- ties, but it lies near the junction of the middle and lower thirds in women who have borne children. The upper portion, or body, presents two surfaces, three borders, and two angles. The anterior surface is almost flat, and is covered by a layer of peri- toneum which is reflected at the level of the isthmus upon the bladder, forming a shallow utero-vesical pouch which is occupied by coils of small intestine. The posterior surface is distinctly convex, and covered in its whole extent by a layer of peritoneum which is prolonged downwards over the neck and for a short distance upon the posterior wall of the vagina before undergoing reflexion upon the rectum to form the recto-vaginal pouch, or pouch of Douglas. The superior border, or base, is thick and rounded, and is covered by the peritoneum, which passes from the anterior to the posterior surface. The lateral borders, slightly convex and running downwards and inwards, correspond to the line of attachment of the peri- toneal folds called the broad ligaments. The superior angles, at the junction of the superior with the lateral borders, give attachment to the oviducts or Fallo- pian tubes. The term fundus is loosely applied to the upper part of the body. The cervix is cylindrical in section, wider in the middle than above or below, and may be divided into three portions,—an upper supravaginal zone, a middle zone of vaginal attachment, and a lower intravaginal zone, the os uteri. The supravaginal zone, representing about one-half of the neck behind and two-thirds