831 SPLANCHNIC NERVES upper ten ganglia lie upon the heads of the corresponding ribs, immediately under cover of the pleura. The lower two are placed further forwards, and lie on the sides of the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth thoracic vertebra? between the bones and the diaphragm. The cord is continuous above with the cervical part of the cord, the first thoracic ganglion being sometimes united across the neck of the first rib with the inferior cervical ganglion. Below, the cord enters the abdominal cavity by passing behind the ligamentum arcuatum internum to become continuous with the lumbar part of the cord. The first thoracic ganglion (ganglion stella- tum) is larger than the others, and is of an irregular form. The remainder of the series are triangular in outline, two of the angles being continued into the inter- ganglionic part of the cord, and the other into the rami communicantes. On some of the lower ganglia a fourth angle makes its appearance, and is continued into one of the roots of the splanchnic nerves. Branches.—The branches are classified into external and internal. The external branches are the rami communicantes. A grey and a white ramus communicans connects each ganglion with the corresponding thoracic nerve. The internal branches are the rami efferentes, those of the upper four ganglia are distributed chiefly to the aorta and lungs. The internal branches of the lower eight ganglia form three splanchnic nerves which are distributed to the abdominal viscera. Internal branches.—Upper series.—From the upper four or five ganglia fine twigs arise which are distributed to the thoracic aorta, mediastinum, lungs, verte- bra?, and ligaments. Internal branches.—Lower series.—These branches, although arising in the thorax, are destined for the abdominal viscera. The branches from the fifth to the ninth ganglia unite to form the great splanchnic nerve; the lesser splanchnic nerve arises by two roots from the tenth and eleventh ganglia, while the internal branch of the twelfth ganglion forms the smallest splanchnic nerve. GREAT splanchnic nerve.—The five roots of this nerve run downwards and inwards, between the pleura and the bodies of the thoracic Arertebra?, and unite within the posterior mediastinum to form a trunk of considerable size. The nerve thus formed pierces the cms of the diaphragm, and enters the semilunar ganglion of its own side. The great splanchnic nerve is whitish in colour, owing to a number of medullated fibres entering into its composition. Occasionally a small ganglion (splanchnic ganglion) is developed upon it in the mediastinum. This ganglion is constant on the right side. (Cunningham.) The LESSER SPLANCHNIC NERVE runs a similar course to the great sjflanch- nic, but at a lower level. It pierces the crus of the diaphragm, or passes through the internal arcuate ligament, and enters the solar and renal plexuses. The SMALLEST SPLANCHNIC NERVE passes behind the internal arcuate liga- ment or through the crus of the diaphragm and enters the renal plexus. The majority of the sympathetic fibres which pass from the central nervous system enter the dorsal part of the sympathetic chain; some end there, in ramifi- cations around the cells of the ganglia, and others merely pass through on their way to more distant terminations. With regard to those which terminate in the ganglia it has been shown that in the dog and cat many end in the ganglion stel- latum, which corresponds with the last cervical and the upper three or four dorsal ganglia in man: amongst these are the secretory fibres to the sweat glands of the upper limb which emerge from the spinal cord by the dorsal nerves from the sixth to the ninth, and, in the dog, vaso-constrictor fibres of the pulmonary blood-vessels which leave the spinal cord by the second to the seventh dorsal nerves. Other fibres which terminate around the thoracic ganglion cells in the dog and the cat are the vaso-constrictor fibres of the upper limbs and some of the vaso-constrictor fibres of the lower limb. Of the fibres which traverse the dorsal part of the sympathetic cord, to gain more distant terminations, some ascend to the cervical region (p. 830), others descend to the lumbar region, and many pass by the rami efferentes to the splanch- nic nerves. Amongst those which descend to the lumbar region are pilo-motor fibres, vaso-