495 INTERNAL MAXILLARY with, and a little behind and external to, the mandibular nerve. It then passes along the canal in the interior of the bone, giving off branches to the molar, bicuspid, and canine teeth. On reaching the mental foramen it divides into two branches, the incisive and the mental. The incisive continues its course in the bone, and supplies branches to the incisor teeth, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. The mental passes through the mental foramen in company with the mental branch of the mandibular (inferior dental) nerve, and emerges on the chin under cover of the depressor labii irrferioris. It anastomoses above with the inferior coronary, and below with the submental, and also with the inferior labial. Near its origin the artery gives off (a) a lingual or gustatory branch, which accompanies and supplies the lingual nerve, and ends in the mucous membrane of the mouth; and, just before it enters the dental foramen in the lower jaw, (b ) a mylo-hyoidean branch, which accompanies the nerve of that name along the groove in the lower jaw, and, after supplying the mylo-hyoid muscle, anastomoses with the sublingual and submental arteries. (5) The small meningeal arises either from the internal maxillary a little in front of the large middle meningeal, or as a branch of that vessel. It passes upwards along the course of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, and, enter- ing the skull through the foramen ovale, is distributed to the Gasserian ganglion, and to the walls of the cavernous sinus and the dura mater in the neighbourhood. Branches oj the Second Part of the Internal Maxillary Artery.—The branches of the second portion of the internal maxillary all svrpply muscles. They are:—(1) The masseteric; (2) the posterior deep temporal; (3) the internal pterygoid; (4) the external pterygoid; (5) the buccal; and (6) the anterior deep temporal. (1) The masseteric branch comes off from the internal maxillary as the latter is passing from between the neck of the jaw and the spheno-mandibular ligament. It is directed outwards along with the masseteric nerve, and, passing through the sigmoid notch in the lower jaw, supplies the masseter muscle. Some filaments perforate the muscle and anastomose with the transverse facial and with the mas- seteric branches of the facial itself. (2) The posterior deep temporal arises, as a rule, from the internal maxillary in common with the masseteric or a little beyond that branch. It passes upwards beneath the temporal muscle in a slight groove on the anterior margin of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, supplying the temporal muscle, the peri- cranium, and the external layer of the bone. It anastomoses with the anterior deep temporal and the other temporal arteries. (3) The internal pterygoid branches are short trunks which pass into and supply the internal pterygoid muscle. (4) The external pterygoid branches supply the external pterygoid muscle, and, like the internal pterygoid branches, are short trunks, and very irregular in their number, origin, and distribution. (5) The buccal branch (fig. 336) courses forwards and downwards with the buccal nerve to the buccinator muscle, lying in close contact with the inner side and anterior margin of the tendon of the temporal muscle and coronoid process of the lower jaw. It supplies the buccinator muscle and mucous membrane of the mouth, and anastomoses with the facial, transverse facial, and infraorbital arteries. (6) The anterior deep temporal branch ascends beneath the temporal muscle in a slight groove on the greater wing of the sphenoid bone. It supplies the muscle, pericranium, and subjacent bone, and gives off small branches which pass through minute foramina in the malar bone. Some of these last branches enter the orbit and anastomose with the lachrymal artery; others emerge on the face and anastomose with the transverse facial artery. Branches of the Third Part of the Internal Maxillary Artery.—The branches of the third part of the internal maxillary artery, like those of the first part, all pass through bony canals. They are the following:—(1) The posterior dental, or alveolar ; (2) the infraorbital; (3) the posterior, or descending palatine; (4) the Vidian; (5) the pterygo-palatine; and (6) the naso-palatine, or spheno-palatine. (1) The posterior dental or alveolar branch arises from the internal maxillary as the latter is passing into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and descends in a tortuous manner in a groove on the back of the body of the maxilla. It gives off the fol-