THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 706 covered by epithelium for the anterior two-thirds or three-fourths of its extent, and bounds in part the cavity of the third ventricle. Its inferior surface rests in the mesial groove between the superior quadrigeminal bodies, separated from the latter by a fold of pia mater. The stalk of the pineal body is continuous by its lower lamina with the posterior commissure. Its upper lamina passes into the peduncle or stria pinealis, which passes at first outwards, and then forwards, along the margin of the optip thalamus which separates the upper and mesial surfaces of that body; it then crosses the floor of the foramen of Monro and joins the anterior pillars of the fornix. The recessus pinealis is a diverticulum from the cavity of the third ventricle, which extends into the stalk and a short distance into the body of the conarium. Within the pineal body, and in the adjacent part of the velum interpositum, a number of gritty particles (acervulus cerebri, brain sand) are found. These particles consist chiefly of phosphate and carbonate of calcium. The pineal body was formerly described as a gland (pineal gland) but is now known to be a rudimentary unpaired eye. This pineal eye lies close to the surface in some of the lower verte- Fig. 422. -Coronal Section through the Middle Commissure of the Third Ventricle. (Schwalbe.) CA UDA TE NUCLEUS CORPUS /tev CALL'IS CM fyfA,, FORN OPTIC THALAMUS THIRD VENTRICLE INNER CAPSULE CORPUS ALBICANS OPTIC TRACT LATERAL VENTRICLE TMNIA SEMI- CIRCULARIS LENTICULAR NUCLEUS 5- OUTER CAPSULE jj« MIDDLE COMMISSURE ISLAND OF REIL CLAUSTRUM AMYGDALOID NUCLEUS brates, and was probably functional at a former period. A great parietal foramen in the extinct reptile Ichthyosaurus is strongly suggestive of a functional pineal eye. The posterior commissure is a transverse band of fibres which projects into the posterior part of the cavity of the third ventricle (page 708). The subthalamic tegmental region and the corpora geniculata will be more conveniently described with the mesencephalon. The basal grey commissure is a continuous plate of grey matter which is formed from behind forwards by the posterior perforated space, the tuber cinereum, and the lamina cinerea. The posterior perforated space is a stratum of grey matter which is perforated by a number of small vessels derived from the commencements of the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries. It occupies the back part of the inter- peduncular space and extends for a short distance under cover of the pons, where it bounds a recess, the foramen caecum anterius. It is continuous laterally with the