772 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM (a) The meningeal or recurrent branch is a slender filament which is given off from the ganglion of the root. It takes a recurrent course through the jugular foramen, and is distributed to the dura mater around the lateral sinus. ( 6) The auricular branch, or nerve of Arnold, arises from the ganglion of the root in the jugular foramen. It traverses the bone, passing to the inner side of the aqueduct of Fallopius; forming a communication with the facial nerve, and emerges behind the pinna, where, it divides into two branches, one of which joins the pos- terior auricular branch of the facial while the other supplies the posterior and inferior part of the external auditory meatus and the back of the pinna. It also supplies twigs to the osseous part of the external auditory meatus and to the lower part of the outer surface of the membrana tympani. (c) The pharyngeal branches may be two or three in number. The principal of these joins the pharyngeal branch of the glosso-pharyngeal in front of the internal carotid artery, and passes with the latter behind the external carotid artery down- wards and inwards to reach the posterior aspect of the pharynx. Here the two nerves are joined by branches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic, and form, with the latter, the pharyngeal plexus. (d) The superior laryngeal nerve arises from the lower part of the ganglion of the trunk, and passes obliquely downwards and inwards behind and internal to both internal and external carotid arteries towards the larynx. In this course it describes a curve with the convexity downwards and outwards, and divides into (i) a larger internal and (ii) a smaller external branch. Before its division it is joined by communications from the sympathetic and from the pharyngeal plexus. (i) The internal branch accompanies the superior laryngeal artery to the interval between the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It passes under cover of the thyro-hyoid muscle and pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane to gain the interior of the larynx; here it divides into a number of diverging branches. The ascending branches supply the mucous membrane on both surfaces of the epiglottis. The descending branches ramify in the mucous membrane lining the larynx, communicate with the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and supply the mucous membrane which covers the back of the cricoid cartilage. (ii) The external laryngeal branch runs downwards towards the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. It pierces the lower fibres of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and ends for the most part in the crico-thyroid muscle. A few fila- ments pierce the crico-thyroid membrane, and are distributed to the lining mem- brane of the larynx. It gives off a cardiac branch which joins one of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic; it also furnishes twigs to the inferior constrictor and communicating twigs to the pharyngeal plexus, and it receives a communication from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. (e ) The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve of the right side arises at the root of the neck in front of the first stage of the right subclavian artery. It hooks } round the artery, passing below and then behind that vessel, and runs upwards and slightly inwards, crossing obliquely behind the common carotid artery. Having gained the side of the trachea, it runs upwards in the groove between that canal and the oesophagus, accompanied by the inferior thyroid artery, and enters the larynx by passing under cover of the lower border of the inferior constrictor of 1 the pharynx. It then breaks up into branches, which are distributed to all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx with the exception of the crico-thyroid, and it communicates, as above mentioned, with the superior laryngeal nerve. Near its i commencement it usually gives off a cardiac branch. In its course between the oesophagus and trachea it gives numerous twigs to these structures, and near the termination it furnishes one or two twigs to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. On the left side the nerve arises in front of the so-called transverse portion of the aortic arch, and winds round the concavity of the arch just behind the obliterated ductus arteriosus. It crosses obliquely behind the root of the left common carotid artery, gains the angular interval between the oesophagus and trachea, and corresponds to the nerve of the right side for the remainder of its course and distribution. (/) Cardiac branches.—These are named (from the different levels at which j