THE MUSCLES 310 The internal head arises (1) from the whole of the posterior surface of the humerus between the musculo-spiral groove and the olecranon fossa; (2) on the inner side, from the back of the whole of the internal intermuscular septum; (3) on the outer side, from the back of that portion of the external intermuscular septum which lies below the point where it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve. Insertion.—(1) The posterior part of the.upper surface of the olecranon pro- cess ; and (2) on either side by aponeuroses which are continuous with the deep fascia on the back of the forearm. Structure.—The long head forms a strong fusiform muscular band, arising by tendinous fibres which blend with the lower part of the capsule of the shoulder- joint. The surfaces of the band at first look inwards and outwards. The tendon of origin extends for some distance further on the inner than on the outer surface. As the muscular band passes downwards, it twists upon itself so that what was the internal surface now becomes posterior, and the external surface becoming the anterior is applied to the back of the rest of the muscle. Upon this anterior surface the common tendon of insertion begins as a broad aponeurosis about three inches (8 cm.) from the scapula, and receives the fleshy fibres of the long head in penniform fashion chiefly upon its upper border and posterior surface. These fleshy fibres are continued as a thick band along the inner border of this common tendon, and terminate in a blunt point a little below the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the arm. The external head arises by fleshy fibres which are inserted in penniform fashion into the outer border of the common aponeurosis. The lowest of these fibres arise from a tendinous arch which bridges over the musculo-spiral nerve. The internal head, which is much stronger than the outer, forms a thick triangular sheet, wrapping round the back of the bone, and arising also from the back of the intermuscular septa on either side. The apex of this triangle extends upwards along the lower border of the musculo-spiral groove to a point just below the insertion of the teres major. Its fleshy fibres pass downwards and somewhat backwards to the broad aponeurosis, which, after receiving the fleshy fibres from the outer and long heads, completely covers the whole of the posterior surface of the muscle in the lower third of the arm. A few fleshy fibres of this head are in- serted directly into the bone and the adjacent posterior ligament; the slip attached to the ligament is sometimes called the subanconeus. The insertion of the tendon into the back part of the upper surface of the ole- cranon is usually separated from the adjacent part of the olecranon and the posterior ligament of the elbow-joint by a small bursa. That part of the aponeurotic contin- uation of the tendon which lies between the olecranon process and the back of the external condyle is by far the stronger. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh and eighth cervical nerves) by means of the musculo-spiral, which supplies branches to the long and inner heads in the first part of its course; and numerous other branches to the inner and outer heads while passing through the musculo- spiral groove. Action.—To extend* the elbow-joint, the muscle acting as a lever of the first order, at a very great mechanical disadvantage on account of the short distance which intervenes between the olecranon process and the axis of the elbow-joint; but at the same time with a great gain in speed and range of movement. Hence this muscle is the chief agent in movements of the arm in which great speed is attained, such as in throwing a stone or striking a blow. The long head has some influence as an adductor of the shoulder-joint ; it has also a supplementary liga- mentous action upon that joint similar to that of the coraco-brachialis by holding the head of the humerus in close contact with the glenoid cavity. As it passes over both the shoulder- and the elbow-joints, the long head enables the powerful abduc- tors of the shoulder to exert a peculiar influence upon the extension of the elbow joint. If it were merely a passive ligament, the long head would extend the elbow whenever the humerus was abducted by the deltoid muscle. As, however, the long head contracts at the same time with the deltoid, we have an apparatus by which, so to speak, a double rapidity of extension is secured for the elbow-joint. This attachment, therefore, of the long head of the triceps to the scapula is the chief