THE ARTERIES 576 of the incision is not made higher than the superficial, the artery will not be endan- gered. At times, however, the artery is given off from the pudic lower than normal. Its division may then be unavoidable. When the artery is given off, as it occasionally is, from the accessory pudic, it pierces the anterior layer of the triangular ligament higher up, and is out of danger in the ordinary low operation of lateral lithotomy. Further, the artery of the bulb may be absent on one side, smaller than usual, or double. In the female, the artery of the bulb, smaller than in the male, ends in the bulb of the vestibule. (6) The artery of the crus is usually given off from the pudic a little higher than the artery of the bulb. It makes at once for the ramus of the pubes, per- forates the anterior layer of the triangular ligament close to the bone, and enters the crus penis (figs. 370a, 371). This artery has to be divided in the operation for the removal of the whole of the penis by dissecting off the crura from the rami of the pubis and ischium. Its situation close to the bone at times gives rise to some little trouble in securing it. A small additional artery to the corpus spongiosum is occasionally given off from this branch and then contributes to the supply of that structure and inosculates with branches from the artery to the bulb. In the female, the artery ends in the crus clitoridis. (c) The dorsal artery of the penis (fig. 371), the termination of the pudic, passes upwards between the two layers of the triangular ligament in the substance of the compressor urethrse muscle; then, turning forwards, perforates the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, near its apex, a little to one side of the central apical opening for the dorsal vein. It then passes between the two layers of the suspensory ligament of the penis, and descends along the dorsum of that organ, the single centrally placed dorsal vein separating it from the artery of the opposite side. The dorsal nerve lies to the outer side of the artery, and, still more external, the deep external pudic branch of the common femoral artery. At the glans the dorsal artery forms an anastomotic chain around the corona with the vessel of the opposite side. The superficial external pudic branch of the femoral at times may take the place of the dorsal artery. Occasionally the dorsal artery is found to arise from the inferior vaginal; that is, from an enlarged branch of the vessel known as the accessory pudic (see page 570). In the female, the termination of the pudic is called the dorsal artery of the clitoris. The dorsal artery gives branches to—(a) The corpus cavernosum; (b) the skin of the penis; (c) the glans penis; and in the female, (d) the glans and prepuce of the clitoris. THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY The external iliac artery—the larger in the adult of the two vessels into which the common iliac divides opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation—extends from this spot along the brim of the pelvis, lying upon the inner border of the psoas muscle, to the lower margin of Poupart's ligament, where, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, it passes into the thigh, and takes the name of the femoral. It measures three and a half to four inches (10 cm.) in length. The course of the vessel is indicated by a line drawn from half an inch below and a little to the left of the umbilicus, to a point a little internal to the centre of Poupart's liga- ment, that is, to a spot midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. If this line is divided into thirds, the lower two thirds indicate the situation of the external iliac, the upper third the common iliac. The external iliac vein, the continuation upwards of the femoral vein from the thigh, lies to the inner side of the artery, but on a slightly lower plane, and just before its termination gets a little behind the artery on the right side. Relations.—In front, the artery together with the vein is covered by the parietal peritoneum descending from the abdomen into the pelvis, and by a layer of condensed subperitoneal tissue, known as Abernethy's fascia. It is crossed by the termination of the ileum on the right side, and by the sigmoid flexure on the