335 THE LUMBRICALES Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin and the subcutaneous fat, along the ulnar border of the upper part of the palm. Structure.—Arising by fleshy and short tendinous fibres, this muscle passes in transverse fasciculi to its insertion, which is of a similar character to its origin. It belongs to that type of muscle of which the panniculus carnosus in the lower animals is the best example, and lies in the subcutaneous tissue superficial to the deep fascia like the platysma myoides and the superficial muscles of the face. Nerve-supply.—From the inner cord of the brachial plexus (through the first thoracic nerve), by filaments from the superficial division of the ulnar nerve which enter the muscle upon its deep aspect near its upper border. Action.—It draws the skin and the superficial fascia of the ulnar border of the hand towards the middle line of the palm, forming a deep dimple or groove upon the upper part of the ulnar border of the hand, and at the same time raising the soft parts into a prominent vertical ridge, the object of which appears to be to pre- vent the ulnar nerve and artery from being pressed upon when a hard substance is grasped by the hand. It also helps to deepen the cup-shaped hollow when the palm is used to convey fluid to the mouth. Relations.—Superficially, the skin; deeply, the hypothenar fascia, which separates it from the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, and from the ulnar vessels and nerve. Variations.—This muscle may be entirely absent. Deep Muscles of the Palm of the Hand Central Group Consisting of two sets of muscles—the lumbricales and the interossei. 1. THE LUMBRICALES The lumbricales—named from their resemblance to earth-worms ( = lumbrici) —are four small muscles of a fusiform shape. Origin.—The two outer ones from the outer side of the first and second tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum; the two inner from the adjacent sides of the second and third, and third and fourth tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum respectively. All four are attached to the palmar aspect of the deep flexor, and the origin begins at the lower border of the anterior annular ligament. Insertion.—The aponeurosis of the extensor communis digitorum tendon on the radial side of the first phalanx of each of the four fingers. Structure.—Arising fleshy from the tendons of the deep flexor, the fibres con- verge upon a small tendon which becomes free a short distance above the metacarpo- phalangeal joint. The tendon passes in front of the deep transverse metacarpal ligament, below which it expands, and is attached to the border of the extensor tendon. Nerve-supply.—From the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus; the first and second receiving small filaments from the digital branches of the median nerve, which enter the muscle near the radial border in the middle third of their palmar aspect. The third and fourth lumbricales are supplied by filaments of the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which enter their respective muscles in the middle third of their deep surfaces. Action.—Their chief action will be (1) to flex the first phalanges upon the meta- carpal bones; and at the same time (2) to extend the second and third phalanges by their traction upon the sides of the extensor aponeurosis which covers the back of each of the first phalanges. In this action they assist the interosseous muscles; but the lumbricales have this advantage over them, that when the second and third phalanges are flexed by the flexor sublimis and profundus, the lumbricales will flex the first phalanges with increased force, inasmuch as the tendons from which they