862 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE On reaching the eyeball, the dural sheath is joined by the arachnoid, and turns away from the nerve to be continued into the outer two-thirds of the sclerotic. Similarly the pial sheath also here leaves the nerve, its greater part running into the inner third of the sclerotic, while a few of its fibres join the choroid; the inter- vaginal space consequently ends abruptly in the sclerotic around the nerve-entrance. In this locality the connective-tissue framework of the nerve becomes thicker and closer in its meshwork, and has been already alluded to as the lamina cribrosa. It is formed by processes passing out from the central fibrous cord at its termination, and by processes passing inwards from the pial sheath, sclerotic, and choroid. It does not pass straight across the nerve, but follows the curve of the surrounding sclerotic, being therefore slightly convex backwards. The nerve-trunk here quickly becomes reduced to one-half its former diameter, the fibres losing their medullary sheath, and being continued henceforward as mere axis cylinders. Apart from the conse- quent loss of bulk, this histological change may be readily recognised macroscopi- cally in a longitudinal section of the nerve, its aspect here changing from opaque white to semi-translucent grey. The part of the nerve within the lamina cribrosa has already been seen in our ophthalmoscopic examination of the living eye. The optic nerve is mainly nourished by fine vessels derived from those of the pial sheath, which run into the substance of the nerve in the processes above men- tioned. In front of the entrance of the central retinal artery this vessel aids to some extent in the blood-supply of the axial part of the nerve. Fig. 489.—The Blood-vessels of the Left Orbit, viewed from above. Commencement of superior ophthalmic vein Reflected tendon of superior oblique Ophthalmic artery Anterior ethmoidal artery Posterior ethmoidal artery Ciliary arteries Levator palpebra?, cut Ligament of Zinn Ophthalmic artery OPTIC COMMISSURE Internal carotid artery The Blood-vessels and Nerves of the Orbit As these structures will be more particularly described in other sections of this work, a very short general account will suffice here. Arteries.—The main blood-supply is afforded by the ophthalmic artery, a branch of the internal carotid, which gains the orbit through the optic canal, wfrere it lies beneath and to the temporal side of the nerve. On entering the orbit it ascends, and passes obliquely over the optic nerve to the inner wall of the orbit; in this early part of its course it gives off most of its branches, which vary much in their manner of origin and also in their course. The arteries of the orbit are