THE PHARYNX 951 fibrous raphe of the pharynx. Some of the lowest fibres are continuous with the muscular fibres of the oesophagus, and the upper overlap the middle constrictor (fig. 559a). Near the upper border the superior laryngeal nerve and artery pierce the thyro- hyoid membrane to reach the larynx. The recurrent laryngeal nerve ascends beneath the lower border immediately behind the crico-thyroid articulation. The middle constrictor is a fan-shaped muscle which arises from the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, the whole length of the greater cornu, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. The diverging fibres are inserted into the median raphe, and blend with those of the opposite side. The lower fibres of the muscle descend beneath the inferior constrictor to the lower part of the pharynx; the upper overlap the superior constrictor, and reach the basilar process of the occipital bone; whilst the middle fibres run transversely (fig. 559a). The glosso-pharyngeal nerve passes downwards above its upper border, the stylo- Fig. 560.—Section showing the Posterior Wall of the Pharynx, with the Pharyn- geal Bursa, Fauces, etc. Bl pharyngeus is inserted between it and the superior constrictor, and near its origin it is overlapped by the hyo-glossus and crossed by the lingual artery. The superior constrictor is quadrilateral in shape, pale, and thin (fig. 559a). It arises from the lower third of the hinder edge of the internal pterygoid plate and its hamular process, from the pterygo-mandibular ligament, from the posterior fifth of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the mandible, and from the side of the tongue. The fibres pass backwards to be inserted into the median raphe, the highest reaching the pharyngeal spine. The Eustachian tube and the levator palati muscle are placed above the superior arched border, and the space between this and the basilar process, devoid of muscular fibres, is strengthened by the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It is semilunar in shape, and named the sinus of Morgagni. The stylo-pharyngeus arises from the base of the styloid process internally. It passes downwards and inwards to reach the pharynx between the superior and middle constrictors. Its fibres spread out as it descends beneath the mucous mem- brane. At the lower border of the superior constrictor some of its fibres join fibres