724 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM _ Dissection.—If the student has followed out the dissection previously recommended, the brain will now be reduced to the medulla, the pons, the mesencephalon, and small portions of the hemispheres (chiefly thalamencephalon). He should now tear off the transverse fibres of the pons on one side of the middle line, so as to bring into view the flattened bundles which form the continuation of the pyramidal body through the pons. By tearing these pyramidal fibres in a sagittal direction, the dissector will be able to follow them through the crusta into the inner cap- sule. Lastly the dissector should make a series of transverse sections through the remaining por- tion of brain-substance. An inspection of figs. 423, 424, 429, 430, and 431 will materially aid him in comprehending the somewhat faint indications which he will observe in his sections. The following are the principal points which can be made out by the unaided eye in an ordinary brain, hardened in spirit, and treated in the above-mentioned manner. (In a brain hardened in Miiller's fluid many additional details can be made out.) In the uppermost sections the tegmental or red nucleus is readily recognised by its rounded outline ; it lies below the optic thalamus, and extends backwards for a considerable distance (fig. 423). If the section pass through the external geniculate body, curved bands of white matter intersecting the grey matter can be seen. Sections through the upper part of the mesencephalon show the red nucleus in the teg- mentum, the substantia nigra, the crusta, and the aqueduct of Sylvius. Lower down, the decus- sation of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum forms a conspicuous white centre in the teg- mentum ; the grey matter surrounding the aqueduct is distinct in colour from the rest of the section, and on the ventral side of this grey matter the posterior longitudinal bundle can be faintly made out. Sections through the iuferior corpora quadrigemina show the posterior longitudinal Fig. 430.—Transverse Section of the Pons near the Centre of the Fourth Ventricle. (Schwalbe.) SEVENTH NERVE NUCLEUS OF SIXTH NUCLEUS OF EIGHTH bundle more distinctly ; the superior peduncles of the cerebellum lie on the ventral side of the bundle, touching one another at the raphe, but commencing to rise up around the sides of the aqueduct; ventral to these the tract of the fillet may be seen as a white band ; and ventrally to the fillet the longitudinal fibres of the pons are well seen intersecting the transverse fibres. Sections through the valve of Vieussens (fig. 429) show the superior peduncles of the cerebellum in the form of distinct white crescents placed laterally to the floor of the fourth ventricle. The posterior longitudinal bundle is now very distinct. It appears pear-shaped in cross-section with the narrow end pointing outwards and abutting against the substantia ferruginea ; the latter stands out as a conspicuous dark spot. The tract of the fillet is easily recognised as a white flattened oval bundle. The area mapped out between the posterior longitudinal bundle, the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and the tract of the fillet, is occupied by the formatio reticularis. In sections distal to this, the posterior longitudinal bundle and the tract of the fillet rapidly lose their distinctness, and in the medulla little can be made out as a rule except the olivary nucleus. The latter appears as a thin wavy grey line occupying the interior of the olivary body. Internal structure of the medulla.—Transverse sections of the medulla show that it is composed of symmetrical halves separated by a central raphe. The raphe is entirely formed by decussating fibres. Each lateral half is composed of both grey and white matter. The white matter will be dealt with in common with the tracts of the spinal cord and with the cranial nerves. The arrangement of the grey matter in the medulla is, for the most part,