39 THE TYMPANUM To the zygoma Intrinsic muscles To the petrosal To the styloid process r Stylo-glossus. ■I Stylo-hyoid. Stylo-pharyngeus. Masseter. f Stapedius. \ Tensor tympani. Levator palati. Ligaments : Capsular Interarticular Internal lateral External lateral ^ of temporo-mandi- bular joint. Stylo-hyoid. Stylo-maxillary. Petro-sphenoidal. Ligaments connected with the ear-bones :—■ Anterior ligament of malleus. External ligament of malleus. Superior ligament of malleus. Ligament of incus. The blood-supply.—Arteries supplying the temporal bone are derived from various sources. The chief are:— Stylo-mastoid from posterior auricular: it enters the stylo-mastoid foramen. Tympanic from internal maxillary: it passes through the Glaserian fissure. Petrosal from middle meningeal: transmitted by the hiatus Fallopii. Tympanic from internal carotid whilst in the carotid canal. Auditory from the basilar: it enters the internal auditory meatus, and is distri- buted to the cochlea and vestibule. Other less important twigs are furnished by the middle meningeal, the men- ingeal branches of the occipital, and by the ascending pharyngeal artery. The squamosal is supplied on its internal surface by the middle meningeal, and ex- ternally by the branches of the deep temporal from the internal maxillary. Note.—The description of the Styloid Process and of the Ear-bones is given on pages 66-68. The tympanum is an irregular cavity in the temporal bone. At birth it is a recess in the outer wall of the petrosal, partially closed externally by the squamosal. When the various elements of the temporal bone coalesce, and the tympanic plate becomes fully developed, then the cavity is completely surrounded by bony walls, except where it communicates with the external auditory meatus. The roof, or tegmen tympani, is a translucent plate of bone belonging to the petrosal; it separates the tympanum from the middle fossa of the skull. The floor is the plate of bone which forms the roof of the jugular fossa. The inner wall is formed by the external surface of the petrosal bone, and pre- sents the following points for study:—In the angle between it and the roof is a horizontal ridge which extends backwards as far as the posterior wall, and then turns downwards in the angle between the inner and posterior walls. This is the Fallopian canal; it is occupied by the facial nerve (seventh). Near the roof, but below the Fallopian canal, is the fenestra ovalis, which leads into the vestibule: this fenestra receives the base of the stapes. Below and in front of the fenestra ovalis is the promontory, which contains the commencement of the first turn of the cochlea. In the lower and posterior part of the promontory is the fenestra rotunda; this, in the recent state, is closed by the secondary membrane of the tympanum. In the macerated bone it leads into the spiral canal of the cochlea. The promontory is also furrowed by some delicate channels (sometimes canals) for THE TYMPANUM