531 ULNAR THE ULNAR ARTERY The ulnar artery, the larger of the two terminal branches of the brachial, begins opposite the lower border of the head of the radius in the middle line of the forearm. Thence through the upper half of the forearm it runs in a slight curve, with its convexity inwards, deeply beneath the pronator teres and superficial flexor muscles, and, having reached the ulnar side of the limb about midway between the elbow and the wrist, it passes directly downwards, being merely over- lapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris. Crossing the annular ligament immediately to the radial side of the pisiform bone, it enters the palm, where it divides into two branches, which enter respectively into the formation of the superficial and deep palmar arches. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which anastomose with each other by frequent cross branches, and usually terminate in the brachial venae comites; or sometimes the inner vena comes ends in the inner brachial vein, the outer vena comes in the median profunda vein. The ulnar nerve is at first some distance from the artery, but approaches the vessel at the junction of its upper and middle thirds, and then lies close to its inner or ulnar side. The course of the artery in the lower two-thirds of the forearm is indicated by a line drawn from the front of the internal condyle to the radial side of the pisiform bone; and in the upper third of the forearm by a line drawn in a gentle curve with its convexity inwards from an inch below the centre of the bend of the elbow to a point in the former line at the junction of its upper with its middle third. The artery through- out its course is best reached through the innermost intermuscular septum, i.e. the interval between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitorum. The relations of the artery will be given in detail—as it lies in the forearm, at the wrist, and in the palm of the hand. I. Relations of the Ulnar Artery in the Forearm In front.—In the upper half of the forearm the ulnar artery is deeply placed beneath the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor sublimis digitorum. In the lower half it is comparatively superficial, being merely overlapped above by the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, whilst the last inch or so of the vessel is only covered as a rule by the skin and superficial and deep fasciae. As the artery lies beneath the pronator teres, it is crossed from within outwards by the median nerve, the deep head of origin of the muscle usually separating the nerve from the artery. The lower part of the artery is crossed by the palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. Behind.—For about an inch of its course the artery lies upon the brachialis anticus; but thence, as far as the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, upon the flexor profundus digitorum, which separates it above from the interosseous mem- brane and bone, and at the wrist from the pronator quadratus. The artery is bound down to the flexor profundus digitorum by bands of fascia?. To the outer side in the lower two-thirds of its course is the flexor sublimis digitorum. To the inner side in the lower two-thirds is the flexor carpi ulnaris, the guide to the vessel. The ulnar nerve, as it enters the forearm from behind the inner condyle, is at first some distance from the artery, being separated from it in its upper third by the flexor sublimis digitorum, but in its lower two-thirds is in close contact with the vessel and on its ulnar side. Variations of the Ulnar Artery in the Forearm, The principal variations of the ulnar artery in the forearm are : (A) It may arise from the brachial above the usual point of division or from the axillary, in which case it usually runs over the flexor muscles, but beneath the fascia, to reach its usual situation in the forearm. 'The recur- rent arteries and the common interosseous are then usually derived from the trunk vessel from