575 INTERNAL PUDIC space between Colles's fascia and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, bounded by the erector penis externally, the accelerator urinae internally, and the transverse perinaeal muscle below. On nearing the apex of this triangle it divides into long slender branches, which are continued along the back of the scrotum, anastomosing with the superficial external pudic branch of the common femoral. In this course it is accompanied by the superficial perinaeal nerve. It supplies the contiguous muscles and the integuments of the scrotum. As a rule it gives off the following branch:— The transverse perinaeal artery usually arises from the before-mentioned artery. Occasionally it is a direct branch from the pudic trunk. It courses trans- versely inwards, on the transverse perinaeal muscle, towards the central tendon of the perinseum, supplying the muscles and integuments of the perinaeum, and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. (4) In the fourth part of its course the pudic artery lies between the two layers of the triangular ligament, close to the ramus of the pubes, in the substance of the compressor urethra? muscle, having the anterior layer of the triangular liga- ment in front and the posterior layer behind. In this situation it gives off the artery of the bulb and the artery of the crus penis, and then continues its course Fig. 371.—Scheme of the Pudic Artery and its Branches. Subpubic ligament with aperture for dorsal vem of the penis Apertures for dorsal artery and f ~ nerve of the penis \ Crus penis Aperture for artery of corpus cavernositm Superficial triangular ligament Ischio-eavernosus, or erector penis Aperture for artery to bulb Urethral aperture Aperture for Cow- . per's duct Position of bulb Apertures for super- ficial perinceal vessels and nerve Fascia of Colles, turned backwards DORSAL NERVE Anterior layer of triangular , ligament up Dorsal artery of penis Deep triangu- lar ligament Artery of corpus /^ caeernosum Artery to bulb Pudic veins DORSAL NERVE POSITION OF COWPER'S GLAND Internal pudic artery Posterior border of perinaeal ledge (junction of trian- gular ligaments with fascia of Colles) forwards through the anterior layer of the triangular ligament under the name of the dorsal artery of the penis. The branches of the pudic artery in the fourth part of its course are:—(a) The artery of the bulb; (6) the artery of the crus; and (c) the dorsal artery of the penis. (a) The artery of the bulb, often of large size, comes off from the pudic soon after that vessel has passed between the two layers of the triangular ligament. It runs inwards and slightly upwards behind the anterior layer of the triangular liga- ment, embedded more or less in the substance of the compressor urethras muscle. On nearing the urethra, it passes forwards through a hole in the anterior layer of the triangular ligament (fig. 371), by the side of the opening for the urethra, and, entering the bulb, supplies the erectile tissue of the bulb and corpus spongiosum in the way described under the anatomy of the urethra. It gives off a branch, just before piercing the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, to Cowper's glands (fig. 370a). The situation of the artery of the bulb should be remembered in performing the operation of lateral lithotomy. As a rule, the artery is well above the central tendon of the perinaeum. If the point of the knife is entered below this spot, and care is taken not to direct its point subsequently too much upwards so that the deeper part