ZYGOMATICUS MINOR—DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS 439 Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, which sends filaments to the outer part of the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—(1) To raise and dilate the nostril; (2) to raise the inner half of the upper lip. Relations.—Superficially, the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum; deeply, the compressor narium and levator anguli oris. 2. LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS The levator labii superioris—named from its action—is a nearly square sheet, and it belongs to the superficial layer of muscles. Origin.—The front of the maxilla just below the margin of the orbit. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin and the subjacent muscular tissue near the upper edge of the inner half of the upper prolabium. Structure.—Its fibres, arising fleshy, descend parallel to one another and almost vertically to their insertion, where they interlace with the fibres of the orbicularis oris. It frequently receives at its outer border some bundles of fibres from the orbicularis palpebrarum. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, which sends filaments to the outer part of its deep surface. Action.—To raise the inner half of the upper lip. This muscle, with its two fellows, the preceding and following, is especially used in the expression of grief, and to some extent of anger also, as when the lip is raised and somewhat everted so as to show the canine tooth. In crying, the action of these muscles is strongly displayed, for when the eyes are closed by the orbiculares palpebrarum, at the same time the mouth is made square by the elevation of the inner half of the lip, while the outer half is drawn down by the depressor anguli oris. Relations.—Superficially, the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum; deeply, the levator anguli oris, the infraorbital vessels and nerve. 3. ZYGOMATICUS MINOR The zygomaticus minor—named from its association with the zygomaticus major and its smaller size—is a small ribbon-shaped band, often absent, and belonging to the superficial layer of facial muscles. Origin.—The lower part of the front of the malar bone close to its junction with the maxilla. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin and the subjacent muscular tissue at a point upon the upper border of the prolabium of the upper lip about midway between the middle line and the outer corner of the mouth. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the small band of parallel fibres which is upon its inner margin closely connected with the preceding muscle, passes downwards and inwards to its insertion, which interlaces with the fibres of the orbicularis oris. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, which sends filaments to the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—To raise and somewhat evert the part of the ujjper lip to which it is attached. Relations.—Superficially, the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum; deeply, the levator anguli oris, facial portion of the orbicularis oris, and the infraorbital branch of the facial nerve. 4. DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS The depressor labii inferioris, or quadratus menti—named from its action, or shape, and its connection with the lower lip and chin (mentum)—is a nearly square sheet, and belongs to the second layer of the facial muscles. Origin.—The outer aspect of the lower border of the body of the mandible below the canine and bicuspid teeth.