THE ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL 1. Ascending pharyngeal Ascending set. 2. Superior thyroid ~\ 3. Lingual >■ Anterior set. 4. Facial ) 5. Occipital ) T, , . o t> ■ ■ -\ r -Posterior set. o. Posterior auricular ) 7. Temporal . . > Terminal t 8. Internal maxillary j 481 1. THE ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY The ascending pharyngeal artery is usually the first or second branch of the external carotid. Occasionally it comes off at the bifurcation of the common Fig. 331.—Scheme of Right Ascending Pharyngeal Artery. (Walsham.] The internal carotid artery is hooked aside. Meningeal branch-passing through middle lacerated foramen Tympanic branch Meningeal branch passing through jugular foramen Meningeal branch passing through anterior condyloid foramen Stylo-pharyngeus GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE Occipital artery Rectus capitis anticus major Ascending pharyngeal artery Middle constrictor of pharynx SYMPA THE TIC NER VE Interned carotid artery External carotid artery Levator palati Palatine branch Intracranial part of internal carotid Intraosseous part of in ternal carotid Buccinator muscle Superior constrictor of pharynx Ptery go-maxillary ligament Stylo-glossus Ascending palatine branch of facial artery Tonsillar branch of facial artery 1 ! It Lingual artery Superior thyroid artery Common carotid artery carotid from the common carotid itself. It is a long slender vessel, the smallest named branch of the external carotid, and runs deeply seated up the neck to the base of the skull, having the walls of the pharynx and the tonsil internally, the internal carotid artery externally, and the vertebral column, the rectus capitis anticus major, and the sympathetic nerve posteriorly. In front it is crossed by, the stylo-glossus (see fig. 331) and stylo-pharyngeus muscles and the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve. Branches op the Ascending Pharyngeal Artery The ascending pharyngeal artery gives off the following branches:—a) Pre- vertebral; (2) pharyngeal; (3) palatine; (4) tympanic; (5) meningeal. (1) The prevertebral are distributed to the recti muscles, the fascia in front of 31 '