SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1192 saphenous opening (page 1138 and fig. 769), where it joins the femoral. The internal saphenous nerve joins it below the knee, having been under the sar- torius above this point (page 1178 and fig. 752). The external saphenous vein passes behind the external malleolus, runs upwards over the middle of the calf, and joins the popliteal by perforating the deep fascia in the lower part of the popliteal space. This vein is also accompanied by a nerve of the same name throughout its course. The popliteal artery bifurcates at the lower border of the popliteus, about on a level with the tubercle of the tibia. About two inches lower down the peroneal artery comes off from the posterior tibial (fig. 756). The course of the posterior tibial corresponds with a line drawn from the centre of the lower part of the popliteal space to a point midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the inner edge of the calcaneum. In the lower third, the artery becomes somewhat superficial, passing from beneath the calf muscles, together with the tendons of the tibialis posticus and the flexor longus digitorum; and in a thin person it can be felt beating in the hollow on the inner side of the tendo Achillis (fig. 756). Fig. 757.—Section of the Right Leg in the Upper Third. (Heath.) Tibialis anticus - Extensor longus digitorum Anterior tibial vessels and NER VE Peroneuslongus Flexor longus hallueis - Soleus with fibrous intersection Gastrocnemius Tibialis poBtieus LA— Flexor longus digitorum M Wrj— Internal saphenous vein COMMUNICANS PERONEI NERVE Tendon of plantaris Peroneal vessels Posterior tibial vessels and NERVE External saphenous vein and NER VE The course of the anterior tibial artery corresponds with a line drawn from a point midway between the outer tuberosity of the head of the tibia and the head of the fibula to one on the centre of the ankle-joint. This line corresponds to the outer border of the tibialis anticus and the interval between it and the extensor longus digitorum (figs. 755 and 758). This is shown when the first of these mus- cles is thrown into action. The peroneal artery, given off from the posterior tibial about an inch below the popliteus, or three inches below the head of the fibula, runs deeply along the inner border of this bone, covered by the flexor longus hallueis. It gives off the anterior peroneal to the front of the limb about an inch above the level of the ankle- joint. The nutrient artery of the tibia arises from the posterior tibial near its com- mencement. It is the largest of all the nutrient arteries to the shafts of long bones. As a general rule, in amputation one inch below the head of the fibula, only one main artery—the popliteal—is divided. In amputations two inches below the head of the fibula, two main arteries—the anterior and posterior tibials—are