MORPHOLOGY OF LIGAMENTS 281 At the interphalangeal joint of the great toe there is very frequently a small sesamoid bone which plays on the plantar surface of the first phalanx, in the same way as the sesamoid bones of the metatarso-phalangeal joint play upon the plantar surface of the head of the metatarsal bone. Morphology of Ligaments The various ligaments of the human body have, in very many instances, been evolved as the result of secondary changes in muscles adjacent to joints. In a few instances, ligaments repre- sent the degenerate remnants of cartilaginous and bony elements. Capsular ligaments arc in most joints derived from the periosteum, but they may be strengthened by the incorporation of tendons detached from adjacent muscles. Muscles arising from, or inserted into bones in the immediate vicinity of a joint tend to become metamorphosed into tendon near their attachments, and a comprehensive study of myology in low vertebrate forms indicates that there is associated with this tissue-change a tendency for the muscle to alter its point of attachment; hence a muscle originally inserted below a joint may eventually come to have its insertion above the joint. In the same way, a muscle arising above a joint may, as a result of altered environment, shift its origin to some point below the joint. To this change of position the term migration of muscles has been applied. In many instances a portion of the muscle equivalent to the distance between the original and the acquired attachment persists as a fibrous band and fulfils the function of a ligament. This is well seen in the knee-joint, where the internal lateral ligament is derived from the adductor magnus, this muscle having shifted its insertion from the tibia to the femur. In the same way the external lateral ligament represents the tendon of the peroneus longus, which has migrated from the femur to the head of the fibula. One of the most remarkable examples of a tendon divorced in this way is the ligamentum teres in the hip-joint. This curious structure was in all probability the tendon of the pectineus, which has been detached from the muscle in consequence of the profound alterations which have taken place in the limb during its evolution. Among other ligaments derived in a similar way from muscles may be mentioned the greater sacro-sciatic ligament. This was originally the tendon of origin of the biceps femoris. (H. Morris, "A Note on Three Points in Anatomy," Med. Times and Gazette, April 7, 1877, p. 361.) The lesser sacro-sciatic is derived from the fibrous retrogression of portions of the coccygeus. The sacro-coccygeal ligaments represent the muscles which lift, depress, and wag the tail in those mammals furnished with such an appendage ; indeed, these ligaments are occasionally replaced by muscle-tissue. The coraco-humeral ligament is derived from the original tendon of insertion of the pectoralis minor, and not unfrequently the muscle is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, the ligament being then replaced by the tendon of the muscle. The coraco-clavicular, rhomboid, and gleno-humeral ligaments are probably derived from modifications of the subclavius muscle. The vertebral column contains several ligamentous structures of great morphological interest. The pulpy substance in the centre of each intervertebral disc is derived from the notochord ; the suspensory ligament passing from the tip of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum is a remnant of the sheath of the notochord, and indicates its position as it passed from the vertebral column into the base of the cranium. The transverse ligament of the atlas (as pointed out by Professor Cleland in 1859 and 1861), is a persistent and functional form of the posterior conjugal ligament uniting the rib-heads in seals and many other mammals, whilst the interosseous ligament of the head of a rib in man is the feeble representative of this structure in the thoracic region of the spine. The ligamentum conjugale costarum was described by Mayer in 1834 (Archives d'Anatomie de Muller). According to Luschka's account of this ligament it would seem as though the posterior superior fibres of the capsule of the costo-central joint repre- sented it in man, rather than the interosseous ligament. Many of the subcutaneous tracts of fascia and many aponeuroses in the human body are derived from the metamorphosis and retrogression of muscle-tissue.