SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1156 ing septum. The external condyle is more rounded, and thus less prominent; below, and a little behind it, the head of the radius can be felt moving under the capi- tellum when the forearm is supinated and flexed. A depression marks this spot and corresponds to the interval between the anconeus and brachio-radialis and exterior carpi radialis longior; at the back, the upper part of the olecranon is covered by the triceps. The lower is subcutaneous, and separated from the skin by a bursa. If the thumb and second finger be placed on the condyles and the index on the tip of the olecranon, and the forearm completely extended, the tip of the olecranon rises so as to be on the line joining the two condyles. In Fig. 720.—The Bend of the Elbow with the Superficial Veins. (From a dissection by Dr. Alder Smith in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) MEDIAN NER VE Posterior branch of anastomotica magna BRANCHES OF INTERNAL CUT A NEOUS NERVE Posterior ulnar vein BraehialiB antieus Anterior branch of anastomotica magna Anterior ulnar vein Median basilic vein MUSCULAR BRANCH OF MEDIAN NER VE Tendon of biceps Bicipital fascia Brachialis antieus Deep median vein, Ulnar artery Pronator teres Radial artery HI mm \ mm 11 Biceps Internal vena comes of brachial artery Basilic vein Brachialis amicus CepItalic vein Brachial artery EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE Musculosp iral n. and ascending branch of radial recurrent artery Radial vein Median cephalic vein Ascending br. of radial recurrent RADIAL NER VE Radial recurrent artery Supinator longua ■ Descending br. of radial recurrent ■ Median vein RADIAL NERVE flexion at a right angle, the olecranon is below the line of the condyles, and in complete flexion quite in front of them. Between the inner condyle and olecranon is a pit, in which lie the ulnar nerve and the anastomosis between the inferior profunda and the posterior ulnar recurrent arteries. The coronoid process is so well covered by muscles, vessels, and nerves, that its position cannot be distinctly made out. Swelling, due to effusion into the joint, appears on either side of the triceps tendon, and soon obliterates the depression below the external condyle. A super- ficial swelling over the tip of the olecranon is due to effusion into the bursa between the soft parts and that bone. A deeper, less easily defined, swelling in the same