1129 FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS on the border of the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic ligament passing between the above-mentioned bones. The pelvic fascia and its chief layers are shown in fig. 697. These are described at page 1060. The following main points will readily be seen: That the fascia has one important aspect towards the pelvic, and another towards the ischio-rectal fossa and perinseum, and thus may be interfered with during opera- tions, or affected by inflammation arising in either region. That its numerous processes and sheaths, while they serve to isolate different structures, are continu- ous, and that thus septic mischief may, as in the neck, spread most widely. With this fact go two other points: one, that with the planes of this fascia run layers of connective tissue; the other, that in the spaces tightly girt b}' this fascia lie large venous plexuses, e.g. vesical, hsemorrhoidal, prostatic, and, if septic mischief reach these plexuses, it is out of reach of surgical treatment. The closeness of the fascia to the hip-joint will also be seen. In children with a thin acetabulum and hip disease this fascia becomes much thickened, thus shutting off the pelvic cavity from suppuration in the joint. FEMALE EXTERNAL GENITALS Under the above heading are included, for convenience sake, the labia majora and minora at the sides; and, in the middle line, from above downwards:—(1) The glans clitoridis with its prepuce; (2) the vestibule; (3) the urethral orifice; (4) the vaginal orifice with the hymen or its remains; (5) the fossa navicularis; (6) the fourchette; (7) the skin over the base of the perineeal body. These parts have been described elsewhere, and only those points which are of importance in a clinical examination will be alluded to here. The labia majora are two thick folds of skin, covered with hair on their outer surface, especially above where they unite (anterior commissure') in the mons Veneris. They contain fat, vessels, and dartos, but become rapidly thinner below, where they are continuous with the fourchette in front of the perina?um (their posterior commissure). When the above folds are drawn aside, the labia minora, or nymphae, appear,