353 GLUTEUS MEDIUS part of the notch between the anterior superior and the anterior inferior spines of the ilium; (3) the inner surface of the fascia lata, by which it is closely invested. Insertion.—The fascia lata about one-fourth of the way down the outer side of the thigh. Structure.—The muscle consists of parallel fleshy fibres which arise by a short tendinous sheet, pass obliquely downwards, outwards, and backwards, and are inserted between two layers of the upper part of the strong aponeurosis of the fascia lata on the outside of the thigh called the ilio-tibial band, which also gives attachment to the majority of the fibres of the gluteus maximus. The two muscles meet by their adjacent borders a little below the upper part of the greater trochanter at an angle of about 60°. As they pass upwards, the two divisions of the fascia lata form a strong sheath for the muscle. Nerve-supply.—Through the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, and the first sacral, by the terminal branch of the superior gluteal nerve which enters the muscle about the middle of its deep surface near its posterior border. Action.—To abduct and rotate inwards the thigh, and, taking its fixed point from below, to support the pelvis and to rotate the other side of it forwards. Acting with the gluteus maximus, it will draw upwards the ilio-tibial band, the obliquity of its fibres enabling it to counteract the tendency of that muscle to draw the band backwards. The chief consequence of this traction upon the ilio-tibial band will be to assist in the latter part of the extension of the leg, by the drawing upwards of the external tuberosity of the tibia. Relations.—Superficially, the fascia lata and the origin of the sartorius; deeply, the deeper layer of the fascia lata, the gluteus medius, the upper part of the rectus femoris and the vastus externus, with some of the branches of the external circumflex artery. Second Layer The second layer consists of one muscle— GLUTEUS MEDIUS The gluteus medius (fig. 288)—named from its size and position, which are intermediate between those of the great and small gluteal muscles—is a strong triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The anterior four-fifths of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium; (2) the outer surface of the ilium, bordered above by the middle portion of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and in the posterior fifth by the superior gluteal line, below by the middle gluteal line; (3) the strong process of the fascia lata which invests the outer surface of the muscle and separates it behind from the gluteus maximus; (4) the intermuscular septum which intervenes betiveen it and the gluteus minimus just below the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Insertion.—The well-marked oblique impression extending from the posterior superior to the anterior inferior angle on the outer surface of the greater trochanter. Structure.—Arising by fleshy and tendinous fibres intermingled, the muscle converges fanwise upon both surfaces of a strong flat tendon which is visible rather higher upon the deep than the outer surface of the muscle. The front part of the muscle is stronger, and it gradually decreases in thickness towards its posterior edge. A bursa is contained between the deep portion of the tendon and the triangular space that lies in front of the impression upon the outer surface of the greater trochanter. Nerve-supply.—From the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, and the first sacral nerve by branches of the superior gluteal nerve which enter the deep surface of the muscle near the middle of its posterior border. Action.—To abduct the hip-joint. It will also by its thicker and stronger anterior fibres rotate the thigh inwards. Its posterior fibres, on the other hand, which are not so strong will tend slightly to rotate the thigh outwards. Acting from below, it tends to support the pelvis upon the femur and to approximate the 23