TERES MINOR—SUBSCAPULARS 303 Structure.—Its origin is by fleshy fibres which converge outwards in bipenni- form fashion upon the tendon. Frequently that part which arises from the lower surface of the spine of the scapula overlies and is somewhat separate from the rest. Its insertion into the capsule and tuberosity is by a tendon which is almost entirely concealed by fleshy fibres. Nerve-supply.—From the brachial plexus (through the fifth cervical nerve), by the suprascapular branch which enters the deep surface of the muscle at its outer part and near its upper border. Action.—It is the chief external rotator of the humerus. This movement of external rotation is through about 90°, and is of great importance. When the elbow is bent, it produces the lateral movement of the hand by which, in writing, the pen is carried from left to right across the page. When the elbow is extended, the rotation of the humerus adds considerably to the range of rotatory movement enjoyed by the hand. The infra-spinatus also adducts the elevated arm, at the same time drawing it slightly backwards, or extending it. It helps to hold the head of the humerus in contact with the glenoid cavity. Relations.—Superficially, the infraspinous fascia which separates it from the deltoid, trapezius, and latissimus dorsi; deeply, the suprascapular and dorsalis scapulas vessels, and sometimes a small bursa which intervenes between its tendon and the capsule of the shoulder-joint; externally, the teres major and minor. Variations.—The slip from the under surface of the spine is frequently almost as separate from the mfra-spinatus as the teres minor, and sometimes there is no separation between the infra-spinatus and teres minor. 4. TERES MINOR The teres minor—named from its being the lesser of two somewhat cylindrical muscles {teres = round or cylindrical)—is a thick but narrow triangular or fan- shaped sheet. Origin.—(1) The impression which occupies the upper two-thirds of the axillary border of the infraspinous fossa; (2) septa which separate it from the infra-spinatus behind, and the teres major in front. Insertion.—(1) The lowest of the three facets on the greater tuberosity of the humerus and the posterior surface of that bone for one inch (2'5 cm.) below the facet; (2) the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Structure.—From a fleshy origin which terminates in a point below, its fibres pass upwards and outwards to their insertion, which is by a short strong tendon into the lowest facet on the tuberosity, and the capsule of the shoulder-joint; below the facet it is inserted by fleshy or very short tendinous fibres. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the fifth cervical nerve) by the lower division of the circumflex nerve which enters the muscle upon its anterior surface near its insertion. The nerve is remarkable on account of the ganglion upon its trunk shortly before it passes into the muscle. Action.—The same as that of the preceding muscle, of which it may be con- sidered to form a part. It will therefore rotate the arm outwards and at the same time adduct. Relations.—Behind, the deltoid; in front, the long head of the triceps, the teres major, and subscapularis. Above and internally, the dorsalis scapula? vessels run between it and the axillary border of the scapula. 5. SUBSCAPULARIS The subscapularis muscle—named from its position beneath the scapula—is a thick triangular and somewhat multipenniform sheet. Origin.—(1) The whole of the ventral surface of the scapula with the exception of the part near the neck, and the spaces at the upper and lower angles occupied by the serratus magnus; (2) the lower two-thirds of the grooved outer border of the scapula; and (3) the intermuscular septum between it and the teres major.