758 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM from between the heads of the external pterygoid, it gives off a slender twig to the temporal muscle. The POSTERIOR PORTION of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve divides into three large branches; two of these, the auriculo-temporal and the lingual, are exclusively sensory; the remaining branch, mandibular (inferior dental), contains a strand of motor fibres—the mylo-hyoid nerve. (1) The auriculo-temporal nerve arises by two roots, which usually embrace the middle meningeal artery, and passes backwards and outwards between the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-mandibular articulation and the condyle of the mandible, closely embracing the capsular ligaments of the joint. It then ascends under cover of the parotid gland and traverses the glandular substance as it crosses the root of the zygoma. It accompanies the temporal artery, being placed under cover of and slightly behind that vessel, and terminates at the level of the tragus of the ear by dividing into auricular and temporal branches. As it passes through the parotid gland it communicates with the temporo-facial division of the facial nerve by two stout twigs, which may surround the temporal artery. The auriculo-temporal nerve receives communicating twigs from the otic ganglion, and gives off the articular branch, the nerves to the meatus, and the parotid branches. It terminates in the anterior auricular and superficial temporal branches. (a) The communicating twigs from the otic ganglion join the nerve close to its commencement in the form of several fine filaments. These filaments have been shown by physiological experiments to be derived from the glosso- pharyngeal nerve through the lesser superficial petrosal. They run for a short distance in the trunk of the auriculo-temporal, and leave it under the name of parotid branches. They are the secreto-motor fibres of the parotid gland. (b) The articular branch is supplied to the temporo-mandibular articulation as the auriculo-temporal nerve is passing between the capsular ligament and the parotid gland. (c) The nerves to the meatus, two in number, pass between the bony and cartilaginous parts of the external auditory meatus and supply the skin lining the meatus. The upper of the two nerves furnishes a filament to the upper and anterior part of the membrana tympani. The lower nerve gives twigs to the lobule of the ear. Occasionally only the upper nerve is present, the lower being replaced by a twig from the great auricular. ( Henle. ) (d ) The parotid branches are a variable number of fine twigs which arise either directly from the auriculo-temporal nerve or from the loops of communication between it and the facial. As above mentioned, they supply the glandular substance. (e) The anterior auricular branches, two in number, are supplied to the upper part of the pinna, and are chiefly distributed to the integument which covers the anterior aspect of the tragus and helix. (/) The superficial temporal branches divide at acute angles and ramify over the integument which covers the temporal fascia. The largest twig accom- panies the posterior branch of the temporal artery. The anterior twigs communi- cate with the temporal branches of the facial nerve. (2) The mandibular (inferior dental) nerve is the largest branch of the mandibular division. It passes downwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle to reach the interval between the ramus of the lower jaw and the spheno- mandibular ligament. In this situation it is placed on the outer side of and some- what behind the lingual nerve, and is connected to the latter by a transverse com- municating branch. It then enters the mandibular canal accompanied by the mandibular artery, and lies at first behind and then below that vessel as it follows the course of the canal. Opposite the mental foramen it terminates by dividing into an incisive and a mental branch. The branches of the inferior dental nerve are the mylo-hyoid, the alveolar, the incisive, and the mental. (a) The mylo-hyoid is given off from the mandibular nerve immediately before the latter enters the dental canal. It runs downwards and forwards in the mylo-hyoid groove of the mandible between the bone and the internal pterygoid muscle. In this course it is accompanied by the mylo-hyoid artery. It then runs forwards on the inferior surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, under cover of the sub-