CERVICAL NERVES 785 process, and are distributed to the skin which invests the upper two-thirds of the deltoid muscle. They supply the acromio-clavicular joint. Deep Branches External branches.—These consist of communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves to the spinal accessory, and of muscular branches which supply the sterno-mastoid, scalenus medius, levator anguli scapula;, and trapezius. 1. The nerve to the sterno-mastoid arises from the second cervical nerve. It pierces the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid, and communicates within the muscle with the spinal accessory nerve. 2. The nerves to the scalenus medius are derived from the third and fourth [ cervical nerves close to their exit from the intervertebral foramina. 3. The nerves to the levator anguli scapulae are derived from the third and fourth nerves, and occasionally from the second. They pierce the superficial surface of the levator anguli, and supply the upper three divisions of that muscle. 4. The branches to the trapezius are usually in the form of two stout twigs I which are given off by the third and fourth cervical nerves. They emerge at the i posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and cross the posterior superior triangle of the neck at a lower level than the spinal accessory nerve. They pass under cover of the trapezius in company with the last-named nerve, and communicate with it to form the subtrapezial plexus, from which the trapezius is supplied. Internal branches.—The internal set of deep branches comprise communicat- ing branches and muscular branches. 1. The communicating branches pass to ! the vagus and hypoglossal nerves, from the loop formed by the first and second ' nerves, and to the sympathetic from all of the four nerves which enter into the cervical plexus. The muscular branches are distributed to the rectus capitis lateralis, to the recti capitis antici major and minor, to the longus colli, to the depressors of the hyoid bone (communicantes hypoglossi), and to the diaphragm (phrenic nerve). • 2. The branch to the rectus capitis lateralis is furnished to that muscle by the first nerve as it crosses the deep surface of the muscle. 3. The nerve to the rectus capitis anticus minor is given off by the first nerve at the upper part of the loop in front of the transverse process of the atlas. 4. The rectus capitis anticus major receives twigs from the upper four cervi- cal nerves. 5. The longus colli receives branches from the second, third, and fourth cervi- ; cal nerves, and additional branches also from the fifth and sixth nerves. 6. The communicantes hypoglossi are given off by the second and third I cervical nerves, and run obliquely downwards and inwards in front of the great | vessels of the neck to form a loop, the ansa hypoglossi, with the so-called descen- i dens hypoglossi. They supply the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. (See Hypoglossal Nerve. ) 7. The phrenic nerve may arise by one, two, or three roots, the strongest, j and occasionally the only, root being derived from the fourth cervical nerve. A I root from the fifth is commonly present, and is usually associated either with the j nerve to the subclavius or with the communicating branch which passes from the I cervical to the brachial plexus. A slender root from the third nerve is occasionally present. The cervical sympathetic also furnishes a communicating twig. The phrenic nerve passes downwards and inwards under cover of the sterno-mastoid, crossing obliquely in front of the scalenus anticus muscle. It is crossed by the trans- verse cervical and suprascapular arteries, and also by the omo-hyoid muscle. It passes behind the subclavian vein, and enters the thorax. In this situation it crosses in front of or behind the commencement of the internal mammary artery, and is commonly joined at this point by a communicating twig from the nerve to the sub- clavius muscle. On the left side it is crossed, in addition, by the terminal part of the thoracic duct. The further course of the phrenic differs on the two sides. On the right side the nerve passes downwards, running on the outer side of the right innominate vein, the superior vena cava, and the pericardium, between these structures and 50