315 FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITOR UM Variations.—The palmaris longus is very variable. It may be double, and it is often absent. The fleshy belly is sometimes below, and the tendon in part or entirely above. It may take an additional head from the radius or the coronoid process. Its insertion may be into the fascia of the forearm, the flexor carpi ulnaris, the short muscles of the little finger, or one of the carpal bones. * 4. FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS The flexor carpi ulnaris—named from its influence upon the wrist and its position—is a thick sheet of muscular fibre, somewhat fusiform in shape, which wraps round the convex ulnar border of the forearm. Origin.—First head: (1) by the common tendon from the lower part of the front of the internal condyle; (2) the deep fascia of the forearm; and (3) the septa which intervene between the muscle and the palmaris longus and flexor sublimis digitorum. The second head: from the inner surface of the olecranon process, and the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna. Insertion.—The upper surface of the pisiform bone, beyond which fibres are continued to the unciform process, and the front of the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Structure.—The origin of the upper head is tendinous, and that of the lower is partly fleshy, partly aponeurotic; the aponeurosis from the posterior ridge of the ulna being common to it with the flexor profundus digitorum and the extensor carpi ulnaris, and being closely blended with the deep fascia of the back of the forearm. The two heads are united by a fibrous arch under which passes the ulnar nerve. From this tendinous and bony origin the fleshy fibres pass downwards and forwards in a penniform manner to be inserted into the posterior aspect of a tendon which appears on the front of the muscle a little above the middle of the forearm, and becomes free just above the wrist-joint, where it lies superficial and internal to the anterior annular ligament. Nerve-supply.—From the inner cord of the brachial plexus (through the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves) by filaments from the ulnar nerve which enter the deep surface of the muscle above the middle of the forearm. Action.—(1) To flex the wrist. The pisiform bone assists this action by lifting the line of the tendon a little from the metacarpal bone, much as the patella assists the quadriceps fern oris. (2) It assists somewhat feebly in adduction of the wrist. (3) It helps in the flexion of the elbow. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia and superficial veins; deeply, the flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum, the ulnar vessels and nerve. At the elbow the posterior ulnar recurrent artery with the ulnar nerve passes between the two heads of this muscle. Near the wrist the ulnar artery lies along the outer border of the tendon. Variations.—Its insertion sometimes extends to the anterior annular ligament, and occasionally it sends a slip to the base of the fourth metacarpal bone. Second Layer The second layer consists of one muscle—the flexor sublimis digitorum. FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITORUM The flexor sublimis digitorum—named from its action as a flexor of the fin- gers, and from its position in relation to the deep flexor (sublimis = superficial)— is a fusiform sheet, with two heads above, and dividing into four tendons below. Origin.—The first head arises from (1) the front of the internal condyle by the common tendon; (2) the intermuscular septum which separates it from the muscles of the first sheet; (3) the internal lateral ligament; and (4) a tubercle at the upper part of the inner border of the coronoid process of the ulna.