MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL 89 blended, and the roots coalesce and taper to a cone. The apex is often bent. The characters of this tooth are very variable The third lower molar has a larger crown than the corresponding tooth in the upper set; it resembles the adjacent molars and has usually rive cusps. It has two roots which may be confluent. The Relations of the Crowns of the Upper and Lower Teeth to one another.—Tn a normal condition the upper teeth form a larger arch than the lower. The upper incisors and canines close in front of the lower; occasionally they fall upon, but rarely fall behind them. The labial tubercles of the bicuspids and molars of the lower jaw are received in the depressions between the labial and lingual tubercles of the upper set of teeth; hence the labial tubercles of the upper overlap the corresponding tubercles in the lower teeth. In consequence of the difference in width of the crowns of the upper and lower incisors, it happens that in closure of the mouth each tooth impinges upon two teeth. The milk teeth.—These are smaller in number and size than the teeth of the permanent set. The formula is:— .2 1 2 di — dc — dm _ = 20. 2 12 The temporary teeth are smaller than their successors; the enamel of the crown terminates in a thick edge; and the tubercles on the crowns of the molars are less regular and pronounced. The incisors are similar to those of the permanent set, but the canines have shorter and broader crowns than their successors. THE MORPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL In Man the skull during development passes through three stages. At first the brain vesicles are enclosed in a sac of indifferent tissue which ultimately becomes tough and fibrous. This is the membranous cranium ; a portion of it is represented in the adult by the dura mater, the remainder is converted into the membrane-bones. Gradually the sides and base of the membranous cranium become cartilaginous : in due course osseous tissue appears in the mem- branous tracts, and later in the cartilage. Eventually an osseous box is formed, consisting of membrane-bones and cartilage bones intricately interwoven. A study of the skull in the chondral stage is very instinctive. It consists of two parts : (1) The skull proper ; and (2) the appendicular elements. The skull proper consists of three regions :— The basi-cranial or notochordal region, which ultimately gives rise to the chief parts of the occipital bone and a part of the sphenoid. Anterior to this is the trabecular region, from which the remainder of the sphenoid is subse- quently developed. The most anterior portion is the ethmo-vomerine region, from which the nasal septum and its associated cartilages arise. Wedged in on each side between the basi-cranial and trabecular regions is the complicated periotic capsule. The appendicular elements of the cranium are a number of cartilaginous rods, which undergo a remarkable metamorphosis, and, in the adult, are represented by the ear-bones, the styloid process, and the hyoid. The chondro-cranium at the third month presents the following parts. Seen from above, the cartilage extends from the cranial base to a spot midway between the base and the vertex, shading off indefinitely on the membranous wall. The conspicuous oval masses on each side are the periotic cartilages, in which the floccular fossae are conspicuous objects. Each periotic cartilage is joined to the sphenoid by a strip, termed the sphenotic cartilage, which usually persists in the adult skull. At this date the cartilage for the orbito-sphenoid (the so-called lesser wing) is co-extensive with the ali-sphenoid, and forms part of the lateral wall of the skull. The snout-like appearance of the anterior part of the skull is caused by the fronto-nasal plate. On each side of the ethmo-vomerine plate near its anterior termination there are two small concave pieces of cartilage for Jaeobson's organ. They are sometimes referred to as the ploughshare cartilages owing to their shape.