425 MCSCLKS OF THE IIHAD AXD MJK Nerve-supply.—The suboccipital, which send* branches to its upper border. Action.—Chiefly to rotate the atlas, and with it the head, to the same side. It will also help in extension and lateral flexion of the atlas upon the axis. Relations.—Behind, the complexus and the great occipital nerve, which winds round its lower border; in front, the posterior atlanto-axial ligament and vertebral artery. 4. OBLIQUUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR The obliquus capitis superior (fig. 308)—named from its direction and position —is flat and triangular. Origin.—The back of the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas. Insertion.—The impression immediately behind the outer half of the inferior nuchal line of the occipital bone. Structure.—Of fleshy fibres which diverge fanwise upwards and inwards. Nerve-supply.—The suboccipital, which supplies it at the inner part of its deep surface. Action.—To extend and slightly to flex laterally the head. Relations.—Behind, the complexus and splenius capitis; in front, the rectus capitis posticus major, vertebral artery, and posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. 5. RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS The rectus capitis lateralis (fig. 316)—named from its direction and position —is a quadrilateral sheet, and corresponds to the intertransversales posteriores of the vertebra? below. Origin.—The front of the upper surface of the lateral mass of the atlas. Insertion.—The under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. Structure.—Fleshy, with parallel vertical fibres. Nerve-supply.—The anterior branch of the first cervical nerve which passes out internal to it, and supplies it from the front. Action.—To flex the head laterally. Relations.—In front, the anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve, and the internal jugular vein; behind, the obliquus superior and the trachelo- mastoid. Variations.—Occasionally the short muscles of this group are double. Small slips of muscle have been observed, running from the spines of the lower cervical vertebrae, or the ligamentum nuchas to the occipital bone. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK The superficial layer in this region is peculiar in that it consists of numerous muscles contained in the connective tissue outside the deep fascia. This connective tissue, the superficial fascia, is moderately provided with fat, and extends without any deep connection to the adjacent regions of the thorax, arm, and back. In the scalp it is firm and difficult to dissect on' account of numerous septa which pass through it to unite the skin to the subjacent muscular aponeurosis. In this situa- tion the superficial fascia is richly provided with blood by vessels which run within it instead of beneath the deep fascia, which is their usual position in other parts of the body. Besides the peculiarity of their position outside the deep fascia, these muscles are all associated in their function, viz. to produce the various movements of the features by which the expression of the emotions is effected. They are also