FACIAL NERVE 761 SEVENTH OR FACIAL NERVE The seventh or facial nerve is formed by two distinct parts—the main trunk, or facial nerve proper, and an accessory portion, the pars intermedia of Wrisberg. The facial nerve proper arises from an elongated nucleus which is deeply placed in the reticular formation of the pons below the floor of the fourth ventricle. This nucleus commences at the level of the striae acusticse, and extends brainwards for about four millimetres. The fibres which arise from it pursue a remarkably tortuous course within the substance of the pons. At first they pass backwards and inwards so as to approach the ependyma of the floor of the fourth ventricle close to the sulcus longitudinalis medianus (crus of origin). They then run upwards and for- wards in a compact bundle ( fasciculus teres, or ascending crus), which produces an elevation (eminentia teres) on the floor of the fourth ventricle immediately external to the median fissure. The bundle of fibres then bends, and is directed at right angles to its former course; it arches outwards over the nucleus of the sixth nerve, and passes forwards, outwards, and downwards (issuing crus). In this part of its course it passes to the outer side of its own nucleus, between the latter and the ascending root of the fifth nerve. Finally it emerges at the lower border of the pons in the interval between the olivary and restiform bodies (super- ficial origin). From the above description, it will be seen that the facial nerve embraces the Fig. 448.—Diagrammatic Lateral View of the Origin of the Facial Nerve. (Krause.) SUPERIOR OLIVE ASCENDING CRUS NUCLEUS OFABDUCENS CR US OF ORIGIN NUCLEUS OF FACIAL MEDULLA PONS OLIVARY NUCLEUS nucleus of the abducens; the term genu nervi facialis internus is applied to the nerve in this part of its course. Within the substance of the pons the issuing root of the facial nerve is joined by fibres from the oculo-motor and hypoglossal nuclei which pass to it by means of the posterior longitudinal bundle. The fibres from the oculo-motor nucleus are distributed by the temporal branches of the facial nerve to the corrugator supercilii, the upper part of the orbicularis palpebrarum and to the frontalis muscles, whilst the fibres received from the hypoglossal are said to supply the orbicularis oris. The pars intermedia of Wrisberg arises from the extreme upper (proximal) end of the sensory nucleus of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (Duval). Its fibres pass obliquely through the substance of the pons, and emerge at the lower border of the last-named structure immediately external to the facial nerve, between the latter and the auditory nerve (superficial origin). Thence the nerve passes, in the form of a small compact bundle, and enters the internal auditory meatus. In this situation it lies on the upper surface of the auditory nerve, while the facial is placed above it. It joins the facial nerve at the commencement of the geniculate ganglion. This nerve is regarded as an aberrant fasciculus of the glossopharyngeal nerve, and addi- tional support is given to this view by the fact that it also receives fibres from the funiculus solitarius (Testut). The chorda tympani is usually regarded as the continuation of it, and thus the anterior part of the tongue receives fibres from the glosso-pharyngeal through the chorda