THE ARTICULATIONS 268 to a tubercle on the middle of the outer surface of the calcaneum. The posterior fasciculus is almost horizontal; it is a strong, thick band attached at one end to the posterior border of the malleolus, and slightly to the fossa on the internal surface; and at the other end to the astragalus, behind the articular facet for the fibula, as well as to a tubercle on the outer side of the groove for the flexor longus hallucis. The middle fasciculus is covered by the tendons of the peronei longus and brevis; and in extension, the posterior fasciculus is received into the pit on the inner surface of the external malleolus. The synovial membrane is very extensive. Besides lining the ligaments of the ankle, it extends upwards between the tibia and fibula, forming a short cul-de- sac as far as the interosseous ligament. Upon the anterior and posterior ligaments it is very loose, and extends beyond the limits of the articulation. It is said to contain more synovia than any other joint. Fig. 254.—Ligaments seen from the Back of the Ankle-joint. Posterior ligament of ankle- joint Posterior part of the internal lateral ligament The lower part of the inter- osseous membrane Transverse ligament of inferior tibio-fibular joint Posterior fasciculus of external lateral ligament Middle fasciculus of external lateral ligament The nerve-supply is from the internal saphenous, posterior tibial, and the external division of the anterior tibial. The arterial supply comes from the anterior tibial, the anterior peroneal, the external malleolar, the posterior tibial, and posterior peroneal. Movements.—This being a true hinge joint, flexion and extension are the only movements of which it is capable, there being no lateral motion, except in extreme extension, when the narrowest part of the astragalus is thrust forwards into the widest part of the tibio-fibular arch. In flexion the astragalus is tightly embraced by the malleoli, and lateral movement is impossible. Flexion is limited by: (i) nearly the whole of the fibres of the internal lateral ligament, none but the most anterior being relaxed; (ii) the posterior and middle portions of the external lateral ligament, especially the posterior; (iii) the posterior ligament of the ankle. It is also limited by the neck of the astragalus abutting on the edge of the tibia. Extension is limited by: (i) the anterior fibres of the internal lateral ligament; (ii) the anterior and middle portions of the external lateral ligament; (iii) the