613 VEINS OF THE SCALP AND FACE and communicates freely with the vein of the opposite side, across the glabella or root of the nose, by a transverse branch sometimes called the transverse nasal vein. Just before its termination it receives the supraorbital vein. The transverse nasal vein usually receives the dorsal veins of the nose. The supraorbital vein begins over the frontal eminences by intercommunica- tions with the anterior branch of the superficial temporal vein. It receives tribu- taries from the forehead and eyebrow, and, running obliquely downwards and inwards, opens into the termination of the frontal vein. It communicates with the ophthalmic vein, and receives the frontal vein of the diploe as the latter vein issues from the bone at the bottom of the supraorbital notch. (2) The angular vein, the continuation of the frontal vein downwards, extends from the junction of the frontal and supraorbital veins a little below the level of the eyebrow, to the level of the lower margin of the orbit, where it becomes the facial vein. In this short course it skirts round the inner margin of the orbit, lying with the angular artery on the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone a little internal to the lachrymal sac. Branches pass from the posterior part of the angular vein into the orbit to join the ophthalmic. The angular, the facial, and the ophthalmic veins contain no valves. The blood, therefore, can pass either forward from the ophthalmic into the angular, or backwards through the facial and angular into the ophthalmic, and so on to the cavernous and other venous sinuses of the cranium. Hence in certain tumours in the orbit and cranium, the congestion of the angular and facial veins; and the danger in facial carbuncle and anthrax of sejitic thrombi spreading backwards through the angular and ophthalmic veins to the cranial sinuses. Tributaries.—(a) The superior lateral nasal; and (6) the palpebral veins. (a) The superior lateral nasal veins ascend from the ala and the side of the nose to join the inner side of the angular vein (fig. 385). (b) The palpebral veins proceed from the upper and lower eyelids, and open into the outer side of the angular vein, either separately or by a common trunk. Several branches of the inferior palj5ebral vein open into the facial vein (fig. 385). (3) The facial vein, the continuation of the angular, begins at the lower margin of the orbit, and, crossing the face obliquely downwards and outwards, passes at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle over the body of the lower jaw, and thence downwards and backwards across the digastric and superior carotid triangles to join the internal jugular vein about the level of the hyoid bone. It runs in a more or less direct line behind its corresponding artery, the facial, which itself pursues a tortuous course. It usually passes beneath the zygomatic muscles and beneath the platysma, but above the other muscles. At the anterior edge of the masseter it meets the facial artery, lying immediately posterior to it. In the neck it lies beneath the platysma and cervical fascia, and is usually separated from the facial artery by the submaxillary gland and the stylo-hyoid, and the posterior belly of the digastricus muscles, below which it frequently receives a communicating branch from the external jugular vein. That portion of the vein from the spot where it receives the communicating branch to its termination in the internal jugular is sometimes called the common facial vein ; and the communicating branch, the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein. (See Temporo-maxillary Vein, page 616.) Tributaries.—It receives on its inner side, from above downwards:—(a) The inferior lateral nasal veins; (b) the superior labial vein; (c) the inferior labial veins;. (d) the submental vein; (e) the submaxillary veins. On its outer side :—(a) the inferior palpebral veins; (6) the anterior internal maxillary vein; (c) the buccal vein; (d) the anterior parotid vein; (e) the masseteric vein; and (/) the inferior palatine vein. Communications.—It communicates with the infraorbital vein, the pterygoid plexus of veins, the anterior jugular vein, and the external jugular vein. Tributaries on the, Inner Side.'—(a) The inferior lateral nasal vein is a small branch which corresponds with the lateralis nasi artery. It joins the facial on a level with the ala of the nose. (6) The superior labial or coronary vein begins as a plexus in the orbicularis