1018 THE URINARY ORGANS vesical pouch, a lower in direct contact with the anterior wall of the rectum, and the lower part of the vasa deferentia and vesiculse seminales. The distance of the recto-vesical cul-de-sac of peritoneum from the prostate is very variable, but usually ranges between half an inch and one inch (12 to 25 mm. ), and may be increased to two inches (5 cm.) by distension of the bladder. It is, however, very small in the child. The ureters where they lie at the outer limits of this surface are near to though not in contact with the rectum, and a calculus in the lower end of the urinary tube might be felt by an exploration from within the bowel. In the lower portion of the posterior wall in the male is a triangular space, the sides of which are formed by the diverging vasa deferentia, the base by the line of reflexion of the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum, and the apex by the meeting of the ejaculatory ducts at the summit of the prostate. It was formerly selected as the position for the introduction of a trocar through the rectum into the bladder in cases of reten- tion of urine. In the female the posterior surface is adherent below to the cervix uteri and upper part of the anterior wall of the vagina, but is separated above from the body of the uterus by a shallow utero-vesical pouch of peritoneum. The superior surface is entirely covered with peritoneum. It looks almost directly upwards into the abdominal cavity, and lies in contact with the small intestines, and sometimes with a portion of the sigmoid colon behind these. Effects of distension.—When the bladder becomes excessively full it rises above the level of the symphysis, and in certain chronic conditions of retention may even mount as high as the umbilicus. During the process of distension the anterior wall carries upwards the peritoneal fold reflected on to its upper surface. This elevation is, however, variable and limited in extent; at its maximum it seldom exceeds two inches (5 cm.), and in some instances fails even to pass the upper border of the symphysis, hence there is some danger in tapping the bladder above the pubes, unless the part is exposed by a careful dissection. In recent years Garson and Pietersen have demonstrated that the introduction into the rectum of a bag of suitable dimensions filled with air or water pushes forward the expanded viscus and may still further increase the available space for surgical operation, but it does not ensure the elevation of the peritoneal fold above the symphysis. The relation of the internal urinary meatus to the pelvic wall has become a subject of interest since the revival of suprapubic operations upon the bladder. As a rule it lies at some point opposite the upper half of the symphysis, but in great distension of the viscus (see Riidinger, plate 3) it may descend to a lower level. On the other hand, in young children it usually reaches the level of the upper border of the symphysis, and in old persons with prostatic disease it may rise even above this point. In the male adult it lies from three-quarters of an inch to an inch (2 cm. to 2.5 cm.) behind the symphysis, and about two or two and a half inches (5 cm.) above the perinseum. Structure.—The bladder wall is composed mainly of unstriped muscular fibre, invested externally by a layer of recto-vesical fascia and a partial covering of peritoneum, and lined with mucous membrane and submucous tissue. Its thick- ness varies greatly in different subjects and in the same subject under different conditions of distension. It is estimated at about an eighth of an inch when moderately stretched, but may reach half an inch or even more when completely contracted. It is somewhat thicker at the trigone. The arrangement of the peritoneum over the superior, lateral, and posterior walls has been described, and it only remains to mention that its reflexions over the urachus above, and from the sides and back of the bladder below, form the superior, lateral, and posterior false ligaments. The recto-vesical fascia is a well-developed layer of tissue over the lower part of the viscus, but is greatly attenuated above. It is continuous below with the capsule of the prostate, and passes on to the pubic bones in front of the latter organ in the form of a double fold called the pubo-prostatic or anterior true ligaments, and upon the levator ani at the sides, where its reflexions are termed the lateral true ligaments, while the urachus above represents a superior ligament. These traditional names, however, are misleading and have no practical value. The muscular coat is composed of unstriped fibres, which may be divided roughly into three layers, an