THE SKELETON 78 wards and downwards in the anterior wall of the antrum; it conducts nerves to the incisor and canine teeth. The outer wall is very oblique; it is formed by the orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid, and the malar. Between it and the roof, near the apex, is the sphenoidal fissure, by means of which the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth, and sixth nerves enter the orbit from the cranial cavity. The lower margin of the fissure presents near the middle a small tubercle, from which one head of the external rectus muscle arises. Between the outer wall and the floor, near the apex, is the spheno-maxillary fissure, which allows the second division of the fifth nerve to enter the infraorbital groove from the spheno-maxillary fossa. At the anterior margin of the fissure, the sphenoidal wing occasionally articulates with the maxilla, but frequently it is excluded by the malar. In front of the anterior extremity of this fissure is the orbital orifice of the malar canal. Near the outer extremity of the sphenoidal fissure a few small foramina may be seen, especially in old skulls, which allow branches of the middle meningeal artery to creep into the orbit. A vertical fissure, the spheno-malar, traverses the outer wall. It con- tains the very small spheno-malar foramen, which allows the temporal branch of Fig. 86.—The Inner Wall of the Orbit. FRONTAL SINUS NASAL PROCESS OF MAXILLA LACHRYMAL LACHRYMAL CANAL ORIFICE OF ANTRUM INFERIOR TURBINAL PALATE BONE ANTERIOR NASAL SPINE ANTERIOR ETHMOID CANAL POSTERIOR ETHMOID CANAL OPTIC FORAMEN OS PLANUM OF ETHMOID SPHENO-PALATINE FORAMEN — VIDIAN CANAL, LEADING INTO THE SPHENO-MAXILLARY FOSSA SPHENOID EXTERNAL PTERYGOID PLATE the orbital nerve to escape from the orbit. This foramen is sometimes confined to the malar bone. The inner wall, narrow and straight, is formed by the lachrymal, os planum of the ethmoid, and a part of the body of the sphenoid. The ethmoid section of the transverse suture contains the orifices of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals: the former transmits the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal artery; the latter the posterior ethmoidal artery, and a branch of the nasal nerve. Anteriorly is the lachrymal groove, and behind this the crest which gives origin to the tensor tarsi. This wall has three vertical sutures: one between the nasal process of the maxilla and the lachrymal, the ethmo-lachrymal, and one between the os planum and body of the sphenoid. Occasionally the sphenoidal turbinal bone appears in the orbit between the os planum of the ethmoid and the body of the sphenoid (fig. 64). The orbit communicates with the cranial cavity by the optic foramen and sphe- noidal fissure; with the nasal fossa by means of the lachrymal duct; with the zygo- matic and spheno-maxillary fossae by way of the spheno-maxillary _ fissure. _ In addition to these large openings, the orbit has five other foramina—the infra-orbital, malar, spheno-malar, and the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals—opening into it or leading from it.