THE ANKLE-JOINT 267 tibial vessels and nerve, the extensor tendons of the toes, and the peroneus tertius ; and behind with a mass of fat and synovial membrane. The posterior ligament (fig. 254) is a very thin and disconnected membranous structure, connected above with the external malleolus, internal to the peroneal groove; to the posterior margin of the lower end of the tibia external to the groove for the tibialis posticus; and to the posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament. Below, it is attached to the posterior surface of the astragalus from the internal to the external lateral ligaments. The passage of the flexor longus hallucis tendon over the back of the joint serves the purpose of a much stronger posterior ligament. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament (fig. 253) is attached superiorly to the internal malleolus along its lower border, and to its anterior surface superficial to the anterior ligament; some very strong fibres are fixed to the notch in the lower border of the malleolus, and, getting attachment below to the rough depression on the inner side of the astragalus, form a deep portion to the ligament. The ligament radiates; the posterior fibres are short, and incline a little backwards to be fixed Fig. 253.—Inner View of the Ankle and the Tarsus, showing the Groove for the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus. Internal lateral ligament Inferior cal- caneo-scaphoid ligament Short plantar ligament Long plantar ligament to the rough inner surface of the astragalus, close to the superior articular facet, and into the tubercle to the inner side of the flexor longus hallucis groove. The fibres next in front are numerous and form a thick and strong mass, filling up the rough depression on the inner surface of the astragalus, whilst some pass over the calcaneo-astragaloid joint to the upper and inner border of the sustentaculum tali. The fibres, which are connected above with the anterior surface of the malleolus, pass downwards and somewhat forwards to be attached to the scaphoid and to the margin of the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The external lateral ligament (figs. 254 and 255) consists of three distinct slips. The anterior fasciculus is ribbondike and passes from the anterior border of the external malleolus near the tip to the rough surface of the astragalus in front of the •external lateral facet, and overhanging the sinus pedis. The middle fasciculus is a strong roundish bundle, which extends downwards and somewhat backwards from the anterior border of the external malleolus close to the attachment of the anterior fasciculus, and from the outer surface of the malleolus, just in front of the apex,