826 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM The skin of the region of the heel is supplied by the first and second sacral nerves, on the inner surface and inner part of the under surface by means of the calcaneo-plantar branch of the posterior tibial nerve, and on its posterior, external, and lower aspects by the external saphenous nerve (fig. 469b). The sole of the foot in front of the heel receives cutaneous filaments from the last two lumbar and the first two sacral nerves, the inner area, which includes the inner three and a half digits, being supplied by the internal plantar nerve which conveys filaments of the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first sacral nerve, and the outer area by the first and second sacral nerves through the external plantar nerve. The inner side of the foot is supplied by the third and fourth lumbar nerves through the long saphenous nerve, and the outer side by the first and second sacral nerves through the external saphenous nerve (fig. 469b). The skin of the scrotum and penis is supplied by the first lumbar nerve through the ilio-inguinal nerves, and the second and third sacral nerves through the per- ineal and dorsal penile branches of the pudic nerves (fig. 469b). SYMPATHETIC NERVES The sympathetic nerves were formerly supposed to be a separate system, linked, it is true, to the cerebro-spinal system by numerous communications, yet possessing, in their ganglia, a certain governing power independent of the cerebro- spinal axis. It is now very generally admitted that the sympathetic nerves are merely the visceral branches of the spinal nerves, but they differ from the somatic nerves in the following respects: (a) in the individual fibres being of smaller calibre than the somatic nerve-fibres; (6) in the great preponderance of non-medullated fibres; (c) in the fibres being interrupted in the nerve-cells, which are contained in a chain of ganglia which is called the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, and often also interrupted in secondary and tertiary ganglia, of which the semilunar ganglia and the nerve-cells in the plexuses of Auerbach and Meissner are examples; and (d) in the tendency that these nerves show to form extensive and closely-meshed plexuses. The somatic nerves are the nerves which supply the body-wall as distinguished from the viscera. They have been described above as the cranial and spinal nerves. Certain visceral nerves—for example, the visceral branches of the third and fourth sacral nerves—do not join the gangliated cord. While the sympathetic nerves, taken as a whole, can no longer be regarded as a separate system, certain ganglia connected with the sympathetic are capable of automatic action ; for example, the ganglia in the heart and in the intestinal walls. The sympathetic system, as usually described, consists of (o) a pair of gangliated cords which are placed on the front and sides of the vertebral column; and (b) three great prevertebral plexuses containing many ganglia; and (c) numerous terminal ganglion cells situated close to or within the various organs and vessels. One of the plexuses, the cardiac plexus, is contained in the thoracic cavity. The other two, which are termed the solar and hypogastric plexuses, are placed in the abdominal cavity. The gangliated cords will be first described. GANGLIATED CORDS OF THE SYMPATHETIC The gangliated cords of the sympathetic consist of a series of ganglia united together by intervening cords. These ganglia are of a reddish-grey colour, soft in consistence, but enclosed in tolerably firm investments of connective tissue. The nerve-cords uniting them are pearly grey in colour. Morphologically speaking, there should be thirty-one pairs of ganglia, that is to say, a pair corresponding to