777 SPINAL NERVES sacrum, the nerve-roots passing within the vertebral canal beyond the cord form a great sheaf of fibres, the cauda equina (fig. 437). The distance of the points of emergence (superficial origins) of certain of the nerves from the corresponding intervertebral foramina is given in the following table. This table gives the measurements made by Testut in a subject of eighteen years. The length of the spinal cord was in this case forty-one centimetres. Bight side Left side Third pair of cervical nerves 18 17 Fifth „ „ ,, 25 25 First „ thoracic „ 33 32 Fifth „ ,, 47 47 Tenth ,, „ 68 68 Twelfth „ ,, , Ill 110 First „ lumbar , 114 114 Second ,, „ , 138 134 Third „ „ „ 151 151 Fourth ,, ,, ,, 163 164 Fifth „ „ ,, 181 180 First sacral , 188 188 Fifth ,, „ „ 280 280 Each spinal nerve, as it enters the intervertebral foramen, is enclosed in a strong tubular sheath formed by the dura mater. This sheath is at first divided by a par- tition into two compartments, one for the anterior and the other for the posterior root. The septum soon disappears and allows the posterior and anterior roots to j intermingle their fibres. Immediately beyond the ganglion on the posterior root the sheath thins away into the epineurium and perineurium of the nerve. The arachnoid and pia mater also send tubular processes around the nerves; these become continuous with the perineurium, and a connection is thus established between the lymph spaces around the nerves and the subdural and subarachnoid spaces. Topography.—The relation of the superficial origins of the spinal nerves to the spinous processes of the vertebras has been investigated by Nuhn, and more recently : by Reid. In the following table, which is given by the latter anatomist, A signi- fies the highest point of origin; B the lowest point of origin; it gives the extreme limits of origin as observed in six subjects. For example, the origin of the sixth thoracic nerve may extend as high as the lower border of the spine of the second thoracic vertebra, or as low as the upper border of the spine of the fifth, but it does j not necessarily extend either as high or as low as the points indicated. Nerves j Second cervical (A) A little above the posterior arch of atlas. (B) Midway between posterior arch of atlas and spine of axis. Third ,, (A) A little below posterior arch of atlas. (B) Junction of upper two-thirds and lower third of spine of axis. Fourth ,, (A) Just below upper border of spine of axis. (B) Middle of spine of third cervical vertebra, j Fifth ,, (A) Just below lower border of spine of axis. (B) Just below lower border of spine of fourth cervical vertebra. ; Sixth (A) Lower border of spine of third cervical vertebra. (B) Lower border of spine of fifth cervical vertebra. Seventh ,, (A) Just below upper border of spine of fourth cervical vertebra. (B) Just above lower border of spine of sixth cervical vertebra. Eighth ,, (A) Upper border of spine of fifth cervical vertebra. (B) Upper border of spine of seventh cervical vertebra. First thoracic (A) Midway between spines of fifth cervical and sixth cervical vertebrae. (B) Junction of upper two-thirds and lower third of interval between seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebra. Second ,, (A) Lower border of spine of sixth cervical vertebra. (B) Just above lower border of spine of first thoracic vertebra. Third ,, (A) Just above middle of spine of seventh cervical vertebra. (B) Lower border of spine of second thoracic vertebra.