VENOUS SINUSES OF THE CRANIUM 621 Herophili when this is present. It receives in its course veins from the ten- torium cerebelli, and from the inferior surface of the cerebellum. It communi- cates through the plexus of veins which surrounds the hypoglossal nerve in the anterior condyloid foramen with the vertebral vein and veins of the anterior spinal plexus. (5) The circular sinus, so called (fig. 387), is a venous plexus encircling the hypophysis cerebri, and connecting the right and left cavernous sinuses. The more distinct channels are found, one in front of the sella turcica, one behind, and one on its floor, and are sometimes called the anterior, posterior, and inferior inter- cavernous sinus, the last being also known as the inferior circular sinus of Winslow. (6) The transverse or basilar sinus (fig. 387) is a venous plexus in the sub- stance of the dura mater over the basilar process of the occipital bone. It extends from the cavernous sinus to the margin of the foramen magnum below. It Fig. 388.—The Venous Sinuses. (Longitudinal section.) FO UR TH NER VE THIRD NER YE Ligamentuta denticulatum NERVE Inferior petrosal sinus communicates laterally with the inferior petrosal sinus, and inferiorly with the anterior spinal veins. Through this sinus passes the sixth nerve. One of the larger of the irregular venous channels forming the sinus passes transversely from one inferior petrosal sinus to the other. It is this portion to which the description of the transverse sinus given by some authors appears to apply. This venous plexus on the basilar process is serially homologous with the anterior spinal plexus of veins on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebra?. (7) The lateral sinus (fig. 387) extends from the internal occipital protuber- ance to the jugular foramen. In this course it lies in the groove (which has been named after it) along the squamous portion of the occipital bone, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and the jugular process of the occipital bone. It at first runs horizontally outwards and forwards between the two layers of the tentorium cerebelli. following the curve of the groove on the occipital and the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bones. In this part of its course it is sometimes known as the transverse sinus, or lateral sinus proper, but on reaching the groove in the mastoid portion of the tem-