572 THE ARTERIES Within the pelvis the artery gives off:—(1) An iliac or nutrient branch; (2) a vesical branch; and (3) a pubic branch. Without the pelvis, it divides into:— (1) An external branch; and (2) an internal branch. A. Litra-pelvie branches.—(1) The iliac or nutrient branch ascends to the iliac fossa, passing between the iliacus muscle and the bone. It supplies a nutrient vessel to the ilium, and anastomoses with the internal branch of the iliac division of the ilio-lumbar artery. (2) The vesical branch or branches are small vessels which run in the lateral false ligament of the bladder to that organ, where they anastomose with the other vesical arteries. (3) The pubic branch comes off from the obturator as that vessel is leaving the pelvis by the obturator canal. It rims upwards and inwards behind the pubes, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side of the body, and with the pubic branch of the deep epigastric artery. One of the anastomosing channels between the pubic branch of the obturator and pubic branch of the deep epigastric arteries is sometimes of large size, a fact of surgical interest in that the enlarged vessel may then run round the inner side of the femoral ring (page 579). B. Extra-pelvic branches.—(1) The external branch skirts the external margin of the thyroid foramen, lying between the obturator externus and the obturator membrane. At the lower margin of the foramen it divides into two branches. One branch continues its course round the lower margin of the foramen, and anasto- moses with the internal branch of the obturator and with the internal circumflex. The other branch turns outwards beloAv the acetabulum, and ends in the muscles arising from the tuberosity of the ischium. It anastomoses with the sciatic artery. This branch gives off a small twig which passes under the transverse ligament into the hip-joint, where it supplies the synovial membrane, the ligamentum teres, and the fat in the fossa at the bottom of the acetabulum. (2) The internal branch runs round the inner margin of the thyroid foramen, and anastomoses with the inner division of the external branch and with the internal circumflex artery. It supplies branches to the obturator and adductor muscles. 7. THE SCIATIC ARTEEY The sciatic artery—the larger of the terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac—passes over the sacral plexus and pyriformis muscle to the lower part of the great sciatic foramen, where it leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, behind and external to which it lies, by passing between the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles. On emerging from the great sciatic foramen in the gluteal region under cover of the gluteus maximus, it descends to the inner side of the great sciatic nerve, lying midway between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter on the gemellus superior, obturator interims, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and upper part of the adductor magnus muscles. It anastomoses with the internal circumflex artery, and superior perforating branch of the profunda. The branches of the sciatic artery are divided into the intra- and extra-pelvic. The intra-pelvic branches are small and unimportant, and irregular in their origin and distribution. They are given off to the levator ani, coccygeus, and pyriformis muscles, the rectum, bladder, prostate gland, and vesiculse seminales. The extra-pelvic branches are: (1) The coccygeal; (2) inferior gluteal; (3) muscular; (4) anastomotic; (5) articular; ((3) cutaneous; and (7) comes nervi ischiatici. (1) The coccygeal is a small branch which passes inwards, and, piercing the great sacro-seiatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, is lost in the integument over the lower part of the sacrum and coccyx. It gives several branches to the lower and internal part of the gluteus maximus as it passes through it. (2) The inferior gluteal is a fairly large branch which arises from the sciatic just below the coccygeal, and, turning upwards and inwards into the deep surface of the gluteus maximus along with the inferior gluteal nerve, supplies that muscle, and anastomoses with the gluteal artery. (3) The muscular branches, variable in their number and origin, pass to the