858 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE connected with the dural sheath of the optic nerve. As it covers the spheno- maxillary fissure its fibres are interwoven with smooth muscle, forming the orbital muscle of Miiller. From its inner surface processes run into the orbital cavity, separating the fat lobules. One important process comes from the periorbita about midway along the roof of the orbit, runs forward to the back of the upper division of the lachrymal gland, and there splits, helping to form the gland-capsule: this capsule is joined at its inner border by other periorbital bands coming oil' near the upper orbital rim, and forming the suspensory ligament of the gland. On the inner side of the orbit the periorbita sends fibrous processes to the trochlea of the superior oblique, which keep it in position. On arriving at the lachrymal groove the periorbita divides into two layers, a thin posterior one continuing to line the bone forming the floor of the groove, whilst the thicker anterior layer bridges over Fig. 485.—Vertical Section through the Eyeball and Oebit in the direction of the Orbital Axis, with Closed Eyelids. (Senii-diagraminatic. After Schwalbe, modified to show fascia?.) Periorbita green ; muscle-fascia red; Tenon's capsule yellow. SKIN OF LOWER LID LOWER TARSOS Palpebral fascia and ant. lamina of muscle- fascia Orbicularis palpe- brarum Extension of Bheath of inferior rectus to lower eyelid FORNIX CONJUNCTIVE Inferior obliqne muscle, cut across Posterior lamina of muscle-fascia SUPRAVAGINAL SPACE CONTINUOUS WITH TENON'S SPACE SPACE OCCUPIED BY ORBITAL FAT, PRO- CESSES OF FASCIA SEPARATING THE LOBULES AND ENCLOSING BLOOD- VESSELS Inferior rectus SKIN OF UPPER LID UPPER TARSUS CORNEA Orbicularis palpe- brarum UPPER RIM OF ORBIT, WITH Splitting of periorbita Upper or anterior insertion of levator palpebrae Superior palpebral muscle of FORNIX CONJUNCTIVAE [Miiller Connection between levator palpebrae and sup. rectus, and fibres to conjunctiva PROCESS FROM PERIORBITA TO CAPSULE OF LACHRYMAL GLAND Superior rectus Levator palpebrae superioris Posterior lamina of muscle- fascia lined by prolongation of Tenon's capsule OPTIC NERVE the groove and the sac which lies in it, forming the limbs of the inner palpebral ligament (page 867). Quite anteriorly, at the rim of the orbit, the periorbita sends off a membranous process which aids in forming the fibrous tissue of the eyelids (orbito-tarsal liga- ment, i>r palpebral fascia), and is itself continuous with the periosteum of the bones outside the orbital margin. 2. The orbital muscles are connected by a common fascia, which splits at their borders and furnishes a sheath to each. Processes of this fascia give membranous investments for the vessels and nerves (including the optic nerve), splitting similarly to enclose them; these membranous processes also assist in separating the fat lobules. Posteriorly, this fascia is thin and loose, and blends with the periorbita at the origin of the muscles. Anteriorly, it becomes thicker and firmer, accompanies the muscles to near the equator of the eyeball, and there divides into two lamina?,