146 THE SKELETON diameter, is measured from the sacro-vertebral angle to the symphysis. The transverse diameter represents the greatest width of the pelvic cavity. The oblique is measured from the sacro-iliac synchondrosis to the ilio-pubal ridge. The cavity of the true pelvis is bounded in front by the symphysis pubis, behind by the sacrum and coccyx, and laterally by a smooth wall of bone formed in part by the ilium, in part by the ischium; it corresjDonds to the acetabulum. The cavity is shallow in front, where it is formed by the pubes, and is deepest posteriorly. The lower circumference, or outlet, of the pelvis is very irregular, and encroached upon by three bony processes: the posterior process is the coccyx, and the two lateral processes the ischial tuberosities. They separate three notches. The anterior is the pubic arch, and is bounded on each side by the conjoined rami of the pubes and ischium. The two remaining gaps correspond to the greater and lesser sciatic notches; they are bounded by the ischium anteriorly, the sacrum and coccyx posteriorly, and the ilium above. These are converted into foramina by the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments. The position of the pelvis.—In the erect position of the skeleton, the plane of the pelvic inlet forms an angle with the horizontal, which varies in individuals from 50° to 60°. The base of the sacrum in an average pelvis lies nearly 10 cm. (4") above the upper margin of the symphysis pubis. The axis of the pelvis.—This is an imaginary line drawn at right angles to the planes of the brim, cavity, and outlet, through their centres. The average measurements of the diameters of the pelvis in the three planes are given below (after Lusk):— Diameters At the brim At the outlet Conjugate 4} inches 3f inches Transverse 5| " 4| " Oblique 5 " 4| " Sexual differences :— * Male Bones heavier and rougher. Ilia less vertical. Iliac fossse deeper. False pelvis relatively wider. True pelvis deeper. '' " narrower. Inlet more heart-shaped. Symphysis deeper. Tuberosities of ischia inflexed. Pubic arch narrower and more pointed. Margins of ischio-pubic rami more everted. Obturator foramen oval. Sacrum narrower and more curved. Capacity of true pelvis less. Female Bones more slender. Ilia more vertical. Iliac fossse shallower. False pelvis relatively narrower. True pelvis shallower. " wdder. Inlet more oval. Symphysis shallower. Tuberosities of ischia everted. Pubic arch wider and more rounded. Margins of ischio-pubic rami less everted. Obturator foramen triangular. Sacrum wdder and less curved. Capacity of true pelvis greater.