680 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM finally disappearing under cover of the temporal lobes. A thin grey lamina, the lamina cinerea, passes from the anterior border of the optic commissure to the commencement of the great longitudinal fissure, where it gains an attachment to the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The crura cerebri appear as two strong flattened bundles of white fibres, which emerge from the superior border of the pons, and, diverging from one another, pass under cover of the temporal lobes, and are soon lost to view. On each side the third nerve is seen passing between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries, it springs by a row of filaments from a groove at the inner margin of the crus. The fourth nerve, a slender rounded fasciculus, winds round the outer side of the crus. The pons Varolii appears immediately behind the crura as a broad band of white fibres directed transversely, and passing from one cerebellar hemisphere to the other. It narrows on each side as it passes into the cerebellum. It is marked by a shallow groove in the middle line in which the basilar artery rests. The fifth nerve is seen piercing the side of the pons near its upper border in the form of two bundles, a large posterior or sensory root, and a small anterior or motor root, separated from the former by some of the transverse Fig. 408.—View of the Base of the Bkain. (After Beaunis.) OPERCULUM 3rd or OCULO MOTOR 5th or TRI- GEMINAL 6th or ABDUCENT. 7th or FACIAL 8th or AUDITORY 9th, G LOS SO- PHARYNG. 10th. PNEUMO GAST. Itth. SPINAL' ACCESS. 12th. HYPO- GLOSSAL ASTERIOR PERFORATED SPACE PITUITARY BODY TUBER C1NEREUM CORPUS ALBICANS POST. PERF. SPACE CRUS CEREBRI PONS VAROLII PYRAMIDAL BODY OLIVARY BODY AMYGDALA INFERIOR VERMIFORM PROCESS fibres of the pons. The sixth nerves are seen at the lower border of the pons in the groove between it and the medulla, emerging from the latter close to the outer side of the pyramidal bodies or between the fibres of these bodies. The pyramidal and olivary bodies can readily be made out on the medulla, and a portion of the restiform body can also be seen without disturbing the parts. The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve emerges by a row of filaments from the groove between the olivary and pyramidal bodies. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves, which appear in numerical order from above downwards, arise from the groove between the olivary and resti- form bodies ; the origin of the eleventh or spinal accessory nerve being continued down the lateral column of the cord. The seventh and eighth nerves are close to the edge of the pons in the angle betweeu the latter and the cerebellum. The cerebellar hemispheres are placed one on each side of the medulla and conceal the occipital lobes of the cerebrum when viewed from the base. The cerebellum stands out conspicuously from the cerebrum on account of its darker grey colour and the smaller size and narrowness of its convolutions, which are termed folia. Two of its lobes are more prominent than the rest, viz. the amygdala? or tonsils, which are placed close to the medulla, one on each side ; and the flocculi, which lie close to the pons above the tenth or pneumosjastric nerves. J