1055 DEVELOPMENT OF GENITO- URINARY ORGANS DEVELOPMENT OF THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS There is at first a period in the growth of the embryo during which there is no indication of any provision either for the generative or for the urinary function. A little later the rudiments of a genito-urinary apparatus are laid down, but there is as yet no appearance of sexual differen- tiation. Finally, a third stage in the formative process is occupied by the evolution of the organs characteristic of the masculine or feminine type, and the completion of the glandular and other structures, which provide for the secretion, storage, and ultimate expulsion of the urine from the body. It will be seen that in the course of these developmental changes certain of the structures concerned appear and assume their permanent characters gradually and without alteration of plan ; others, originally employed for purposes unconnected with the genito-urinary system, become adapted to take their place in this section of the economy ; others belonging to the system from the first are brought into a special condition of functional activity only to undergo conversion to a different use later on ; while others again may, according to the sex assumed by the foetus, either dwindle into useless relics without ever taking any share in the work of the body, or may become elaborated into important and efficient parts of the reproductive organism. Fig. 644.—Diagram of the Primitive Genito-urinary Organs before Differentiation of Sex. (After Heule.) (tui OF BLADDER > OF URETERS OF MULLERIAN DUCT The earliest appearance is that of a tube called the Wolffian duct, which opens by its hinder extremity into a cloaca or common outlet for the intestinal and urinary passages. From the fore part of this duct is developed a temporary organ, the pronephros, or head-kidney, in the form of vascular glomeruli. Behind this soon appear a number of tubes, which open at right angles into the mid portion of the duct, and constitute the mesonephros, mid-kidney, or Wolffian body. Still farther back, from the posterior end of the duct, springs the metanephros, or hind- kidney, a mesoblastic growth around a hollow branching protrusion from the duct, with which tubules and glomeruli subsequently become connected. The pronephros quickly disappears ih the higher vertebrates; the mesonephros, which reaches its maximum development by the sixth week, soon ceases to discharge its renal function, and either becomes a useless relic in the broad ligament of the female pelvis, or undergoes transformation into an essential part of the male generative apparatus; while the metanephros becomes developed into the permanent kidney. The ureter and uvilliferous tubules probably originate as special outgrowths from the posterior part of the Wolffian duct. The morphology of the supvavenal body is somewhat doubtful, but it is probable that the medulla is a derivative of the sympathetic system, and hence of epiblastic origin ; while the cortex is a mesoblastic development in connection with the fore end of the Wolffian duct. It is at first larger than the kidney, but the latter attains an equal bulk by the