THE ARTERIES 520 THE AXILLARY ARTERY The term axillary is applied to that portion of the main arterial stem of the upper limb that passes through the axilla. The axillary artery therefore is con- tinuous with the subclavian above and with the brachial below. It extends from the outer border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle, and has the shoulder-joint and the neck of the humerus to its outer side. When the arm is placed close to the side of the body, the artery forms a gentle curve with its convexity upwards; but when the arm is carried out from the side at right angles to the trunk in the ordinary dissecting position, the vessel takes a nearly straight course, which will then be indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the clavicle to a spot midway between the condyles of the humerus. The axillary artery is at first deeply placed beneath the pectoral muscles, but in its lower third is superficial, being covered only by the skin and the superficial fascia and deep fascia. It is divided into three parts—first, second, and third, according as it lies respectively above, beneath, or below the pectoralis minor. The First Part of the Axillary Artery The first part of the axillary artery extends from the outer border of the first rib to the upper border of the pectoralis minor. It measures about an inch in length (2-5 cm.). Relations.—In front it is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, the origin of the platysma, the deep fascia, the pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane, the subclavius muscle and the clavicle when the arm hangs down by the side. The cephalic and acromio-thoracic veins, the external anterior thoracic nerve, and the axillary lymphatic trunk, cross over it. A layer of the deep cervical fascia which has passed under the clavicle also descends in front of it. Behind, it rests upon the first intercostal space and first intercostal mus- cle, the first digitation and sometimes a portion of the second digitation of the serratus magnus muscle, and a part of the second rib. The posterior or external respiratory nerve of Bell, on its way to the serratus magnus muscle, passes behind it. To its outer side, and somewhat on a higher plane, are the cords of the brachial plexus. To its inner side, and on a slightly anterior plane, is the axillary vein. The anterior internal thoracic nerve courses between the vein and the artery. The Second Part of the Axillary Artery The second part of the axillary artery (fig. 346) lies beneath the pectoralis minor deep in the axilla. It measures a little more than an inch in length (3 cm.). Relations.—In front, in addition to the pectoralis minor, it is covered by the pectoralis major and the integuments. Behind, it is separated by a considerable interval containing loose connective tissue and fat from the subscapularis muscle; whilst behind, and in contact with it, is the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. To the inner side, but separated from the artery by the inner cord of the brachial plexus, is the axillary vein. To the outer side is the outer cord of the brachial plexus, and at some little distance the coracoid process. It is thus seen that the second portion of the axillary artery is surrounded on three sides by the cords of the brachial plexus—one behind, one internal, and one external.