644 THE VEINS even above the artery. (2) It may pass with the artery behind the scalenus anticus. (3) It may run behind the scalenus anticus and the artery in trout of that muscle. (4) It may split and enclose the scalenus anticus. (5) It may pass between the clavicle and the subclavius. (6) It may receive directly the transverse cervical, the suprascapular, the anterior jugular, or the cephalic vein, or the veuae comites of the brachial artery. 6. THE VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The veins of the lower extremity are divided into the superficial and the deep. The superficial veins lie in the subcutaneous tissue superficial to the deep fascia, through which they receive numerous communicating branches from the deep veins. They are collected chiefly into two main trunks, which, beginning on the foot, extend upwards, one lying antero-internally, and the other postero- externally. The former finally joins the femoral vein by passing through the deep fascia at the groin; the latter the popliteal by perforating the fascia at the ham. The deep veins, on the other hand, accompany their corresponding arteries. Below the knee there are two veins to each artery; above it, excepting at the back of the thigh, there is only one vein to each artery. All the veins of the lower limb have valves which are more numerous than in the veins of the upper extremity, and in the deep than in the superficial veins. I. THE SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The superficial veins of the lower limb are collected into two main trunks. One, the long or internal saphenous, which is placed antero-internally; the other, the short or external saphenous, which is placed postero-externally. These veins commence on the dorsum of the foot in an irregular arch, which stretches across the instep with its convexity towards the toes. The arch receives branches from the four outer toes and dorsum of the foot, and one branch of somewhat larger size than the rest from the inner side of the great toe. It also communicates with the vena^ comites accompanying the dorsal artery of the foot (fig. 397). The long or internal saphenous vein commences on the inner side of the foot at the inner end of the above described venous arch, antl, after receiving branches from the sole which join it by turning over the inner border of the foot, passes upwards in front of the inner ankle, and then obliquely upwards and backwards about a finger's breadth from the posterior border of the tibia in company with the internal saphenous nerve, which becomes superficial just below the knee. Con- tinuing its course upwards, it passes behind the internal condyle, and then runs upwards and somewhat outwards on the inner side of the front of the thigh to about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament, where, after receiving the superfi- cial circumflex iliac, superficial epigastric, and superficial external pudic veins, it dips through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, and ends in the femoral vein. In its course up the leg and thigh it receives numerous unnamed cutaneous branches, and at variable intervals communicates with the deep veins. Just before it passes through the saphenous opening, it often receives a large vein ( external femoral cutaneous) formed by the union of several of the cutaneous veins on the upper and outer part of the thigh, and a second vein (the internal femoral cutaneous) formed by the union of the cutaneous veins from the inner and back part of the thigh. The long saphenous vein contains from ten to twenty valves. The short or external saphenous vein begins at the outer end of the venous arch, or plexus, on the dorsum of the foot. After receiving branches from the sole, which turn over the outer border of the foot, it passes behind the outer ankle, and then upwards and inwards, lying at first along the outer side of the tendo Achillis,