774 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM posterior nerve roots and the attachment of the ligamentum denticulatum. The superficial origin of the nerve is thus constituted by a row of filaments which extend from the fifth or sixth (rarely the seventh) to the first cervical nerve. The lowest of this series of roots is close to the ligamentum denticulatum; the highest is near to the point of emergence of the posterior roots of the first cervical nerve. The roots unite to form a rounded cord which courses upwards, increasing in size as it ascends, and enters the cranial cavity by passing through the foramen magnum. Here it is joined, for the time being, by the accessory portion, and passes with the latter, in the form of a single trunk, through the middle compartment of the jugular foramen. At the base of the skull it runs downwards, outwards, and backwards between the occipital artery and the internal jugular vein, to pass under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle; it pierces the clavicular fibres of the muscle and com- municates with a branch derived from the second cervical nerve. From the plexus so formed the sterno-mastoid is supplied. The nerve then emerges at the posterior border of the muscle, crosses the floor of the posterior triangle of the neck obliquely, and passes under cover of the trapezius; on the deep surface of that muscle the spinal accessory is joined by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and forms with them the subtrapezial plexus, from which the trapezius is supplied. TWELFTH OR HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE The hypoglossal nerve arises from an elongated column of nerve-cells which extends from the striae medullares in the floor of the fourth ventricle downwards to the level of the lower end of the olivary body. This column contains nerve-cells of large size. It represents the neck of the anterior horn of the grey crescent in the spinal cord, and is continued into that structure below. In its lower part the column is placed ventro-laterally to the central canal, but, as the central canal expands into the floor of the fourth ventricle, the grey column is displaced laterally, and thus apparently occupies a more dorsal position. It corresponds to the area described as the trigonum hypoglossi, and is separated from the ependyma of the ventricle only by a thin layer of medullated fibres. From the cells embedded in this grey column the nerve-fibres arise. These fibres pass in bundles which are directed ventrally and outwards, internal to the olivary nucleus, between the latter and the internal accessory olive. Finally they emerge in a row of from ten to twelve filaments in the furrow between the olivary and pyramidal bodies, consti- tuting the superficial origin of the hypoglossal nerve. An accessory nucleus is also described which is placed ventro-latendly to the above described (or chief) nucleus. This accessory nucleus represents a portion of the head of the anterior horn. Fibres pass from the inner side of the hypoglossal nucleus, and cross in the raphe from where they ascend brainwards to establish the cortical origin of the nerve. The filaments unite to form two fasciculi, each of which pierces the dura mater separately at a point opposite to the anterior condyloid foramen. As these fasciculi traverse the foramen, they unite to form a single trunk, which is placed at first on the inner side of the pneumogastric, but then winds spirally round the ganglion of the trunk of the latter nerve, passing behind, external to, and finally in front of the ganglion. In this situation the hypoglossal receives two or three communicating branches from the first and second cervical nerves, and some minute twigs from the vagus and sympathetic. The hypoglossal then runs forwards and inwards, describing a curve, the convexity of which looks downwards and outwards. At the commencement of this part of its course it crosses the internal carotid artery and hooks round the occipital artery, passing immediately below that vessel. It then crosses external to the external carotid artery, the lingual artery, the middle con- strictor of the pharynx, and the hyo-glossus muscle, and, passing under cover of the mylo-hyoid, breaks up into its terminal branches. As it lies on the middle constrictor the great comu of the hyoid bone is below it and the tendon of the digastric muscle is above it. As it passes on to the hyo-glossus it is crossed on its superficial surface by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. It is also overlapped in this situation by the submaxillary gland.