THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 688 and a superior, which is situated within the Sylvian fissure and can be displayed by pulling up the operculum. The boundaries of the temporal lobe have been already indicated in the description of the other lobes, but may be recapitulated as follows. It is bounded behind by the lower part of the line drawn from the external parieto-occipital fissure to the preoccipital notch. Above, it is limited by the horizontal part of the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure and by a line continuing the horizontal direction backwards to meet the posterior boundary. Its tentorial surface may be marked off from the occipital lobe by a line drawn from the preoccipital notch to the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus. Three fissures traverse the temporal lobe in a direction parallel to its long axis. The first of these, the superior temporal or parallel fissure, is one of the most con- stant of the incomplete fissures of the cerebrum. The other two, termed middle and inferior temporal, seldom appear as well-marked sulci, being as a rule broken up by fissures and gyri crossing at right angles to their direction. The collateral fissure is approximately parallel to the three temporal sulci; it marks off the temporal from the falciform lobe. The parallel fissure commences a short distance behind the apex of the lobe, and takes a course parallel to the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius. Its upturned extremity ends in the parietal lobe, where it is embraced by the angular gyrus. The middle temporal fissure runs in the same general direction as the parallel fissure but is placed at a lower level. It may communicate behind with the sulcus occipitalis anterior. The inferior temporal fissure is placed on the under surface near the lateral margin of the hemisphere. It is in a line with the inferior occipital fissure. Three convolutions are present on the outer surface, running in an antero- posterior direction. They are termed the superior, middle, and inferior temporal convolutions. They become confluent with one another at the apex of the lobe. The superior temporal or inframarginal convolution lies between the Sylvian and parallel fissures. It is continuous above with the supramarginal and angular gyri. The middle temporal convolution, placed between the parallel and the middle temporal fissures, is continuous behind with the angular gyrus and the post-parietal convolution. It is usually joined to the inferior occipital by the fourth annectant gyrus. The inferior temporal convolution is situated on the lateral margin of the hemisphere. It may be connected to the inferior occipital convolution by a fifth annectant gyrus. The superior surface of the temporal lobe is in contact with the operculum. It is crossed by two or three (sometimes four) transverse temporal convolutions. (Hesehl.) Dissection.—The student should now raise the operculum and at the same time draw the temporal lobe downwards in order to bring the island of Reil into view. The large branches of the middle cerebral artery which lie among the convolutions of the island should be removed, together with the adherent pia mater. The CENTRAL LOBE or ISLAND OF REIL corresponds to the floor of the embryonic fossa Sylvii, and is placed external to the claustrum. Its form is tri- angular; the base of the triangle is placed upwards and inwards, the apex forms a prominence, the limen insula?, which separates the vallecula Sylvii from the fissure of the same name. It is hidden by the opercula and is surrounded, except at the limen, by a curved furrow, the sulcus circularis Reilii (Schwalbe). From five to seven convolutions, the gyri operti, radiate from the limen insula?. The island is divided into a larger anterior part (pars frontalis ), and a smaller posterior part ( pars parieto-falciformis) by a constant fissure, the sulcus centralis insulae (Hefftler and Eberstaller), which has the same direction, and is in the same plane, as the fissure of Rolando.