•218 THE ARTICULATIONS the sternal extremity of each clavicle, and with the fibres which weld the inter- articular cartilage with the clavicle; and then passes across from clavicle to clavicle along the posterior aspect of the upper border of the manubrium sterni. The lowest fibres are attached to the sternum, and join the posterior fibres of tile capsule of each joint. In the middle line between the ligament and the sternum there is an aperture for the passage of a small artery and vein. The rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament (figs. 219 and 220) is a strong dense band, composed of fine fibres massed together into a membranous structure. It extends from the anterior edge of the upper border of the first costal cartilage, upwards, backwards, and distinctly outwards to the rhomboid impression on the under surface of the inner extremity of the clavicle, to which it is attached just external to the lower part of the capsule. Frequently some of the outer fibres pass upwards and inwards behind the rest, and give the appearance of decussating. It is from half to three-quarters of an inch (l-5-2 cm.) broad. The interarticular fibro-cartilage (figs. 220 and 221) is a flattened disc of nearly the same size and outline as the inner articular end of the clavicle, which it fairly accurately fits. It is attached, above to the upper border of the posterior edge of the clavicle; and below to the cartilage of the first rib at its union with the Fig. 221.—Section through Sternoclavicular Joint. sternum, where it assists in forming the socket for the clavicle. At its circum- ference it is connected with the capsular ligament, and this connection is very strong behind, and still stronger above where it is blended with the interclavicular ligament. It is usually thinnest below, where it is connected with the costal cartilage. It varies in thickness in different parts, sometimes being thinner in the centre than at the circumference, sometimes the reverse, and is occasionally per- forated in the centre. It divides the joint into two compartments. There are two synovial membranes (figs. 220 and 221): an outer one, which is reflected from the clavicle and capsule over the outer side of the fibro-cartilage, and is looser than the inner; the inner is reflected from the sternum over the inner side of the fibro-cartilage, costal cartilage, and capsule. Occasionally a communi- cation takes place between them. The arterial supply is derived from branches (1) from the internal mammary; (2) from the superior thoracic branch of the axillary; (3) twigs of a muscular branch often arising from the subclavian artery pass over the interclavicular notch; (4) twigs of the suprascapular artery. The nerve-supply is derived from the nerve to the subclaims. The movements permitted at this joint are various, though limited owing to the capsular ligament being moderately tense in every position of the clavicle.