EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL INTERCOSTALS 395 THE MUSCLES OF THE THORAX .These consist of six muscles, or sets of muscles, which are attached chiefly to the ribs, their cartilages, and the sternum: viz. the external and internal inter- costals, thelevatores costarum, the triangularis sterni, infracostales (or subcostal es), and diaphragm. Intercostal Muscles The intercostal muscles—named from their position—are long narrow sheets of short oblique muscular fibres which occupy the intercostal spaces. The fibres of the outer sheet run downwards and forwards, and those of the inner downwards and backwards; and the two sheets are the upper continuations of the obliquus externus and interims of the abdominal wall. 1. THE EXTERNAL INTERCOSTALS The external intercostals, which are stronger than the internal, are eleven in number, and fill the spaces between the ribs from the tubercle to the tip. In the higher spaces, however, they do not come quite so far forwards as below. Above, the lower attachment barely reaches the tip of the rib; while below^ the upper attachment reaches the tip, and the lower is upon the cartilage. Origin.—The lower or outer border of all the ribs except the last, from tubercle to anterior extremity. Insertion.—The outer aspect of the upper border of all the ribs but the first from a little in front of the tubercle to the tip, or in the lower ribs for a short distance upon the cartilage. Structure.—Composed of obliquely directed parallel bundles of fleshy fibre, with a short tendinous origin, and with a slight admixture of fibrous tissue. The posterior are more oblique than the anterior fibres. The sheet formed by their fibres is thickest behind, and becomes gradually thinner forwards. Between the cartilages it is succeeded by a thin membrane, the external intercostal fascia, which is composed of fibres running with the same slope as those of the muscle. Nerve-supply.—The intercostal nerves as they run forwards give numerous filaments to the inner surfaces of the muscles. Action.—See later. Relations.—Superficially, the pectoralis major and minor, the serratus magnus, the external oblique, the latissimus dorsi, the trapezius, rhomboidei, the serrati postici, the continuation upwards of the erector spinas, and the levatores costarum; deeply, the internal intercostals and infracostales, the intercostal vessels and nerves. 2. THE INTERNAL INTERCOSTALS The internal intercostals are eleven in number, and fill the spaces from the angles of the ribs to the anterior extremities of the cartilages. The fibres, which are shorter and not quite so oblique as those of the outer sheet, are directed down- wards and backwards. Origin.—The upper border of the subcostal groove of the eleven upper ribs from the angle forwards, and the continuation of this border upon the cartilages. Insertion.—The inner aspect of the upper border of the eleven lower ribs and cartilages. Structure.—The sheets are thicker in front. There is less fibrous tissue mixed with the fleshy fibres than in the outer sheet. In the upper and lower sj)aces the fleshy fibres are continued a little further back than the angles. The rest of the