62 THE SKELETON the outer and a large portion of the lower wall and inferior circumference of the orbit. The inferior is continuous with the zygoma, and gives origin to the anterior fibres of the masseter. The anterior border is in relation with the maxilla, and near the margin of the orbit gives origin to a portion of the levator labii superi- oris. The posterior border extends from the frontal to the zygomatic process, and presents a double curve; it gives attachment to the temporal fascia. This border is directly continuous below with the upper border of the zygoma, and above with the temporal ridge. Articulations.—The malar articulates with the maxilla, frontal, sphenoid, and temporal bones. Blood-supply.—The arteries of the malar are derived from the infraorbital, lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic, transverse facial, and deep temporal arteries. The muscles connected with it-are:— Zygomaticus major. Zygomaticus minor. Levator labii superioris. Masseter. Ossification.—The malar is a membrane-bone, and arises from two and occa- sionally three centres, which appear in the eighth week of embryonic life, and grow with astonishing rapidity: the bone quickly attains a relatively large size. Occasionally the two primary nuclei fail to coalesce, and the bone is represented in the adult by two portions separated by a horizontal suture. Such bipartite malars have been observed in skulls obtained from at least a dozen different races of men. Bipartite malars have been seen with the suture vertical. That the bone may arise from three centres is shown by the fact that tripartite malars have been observed. At birth the maxillary process reaches as far forwards as the outer border of the infraorbital canal; subsequently it may send a process over the canal. THE APPENDICULAR ELEMENTS OF THE SKULL The bones which form this group are the mandible (lower jaw), malleus, incus, stapes, hyoid, the styloid process of the temporal bone, and the internal pterygoid process of the sphenoid. THE MANDIBLE OR LOWER JAW The mandible (lower jaw ox inferior maxilla) is in shape like a horseshoe; it con- sists of a horizontal portion or body, and two vertical portions or rami. The body consists of a right and a left half, meeting in the middle line to form the symphysis. Each half presents two surfaces and two borders. The external surface is smooth and generally convex, and presents the following points of interest:—The symphysis ends inferiorly in a triangular surface which forms the chin. Near the symphysis is the incisive fossa, from which the levator menti arises; external to this is the mental foramen through which the mental nerve and artery issue. This foramen is in a line with the second bicuspid tooth. Ex- tending backwards and upwards from the mental protuberance, so as to become continuous with the anterior border of the coronoid process, is the external oblique line ; along its upper border the depressor labii inferioris and depressor anguli oris arise. The internal surface presents, at a point corresponding to the symphysis, two pairs of genial tubercles. The upper pair give origin to the genio-hyo-glossi, and the lower pair afford insertion to the genio-hyoid muscles. The tubercles occa- sionally form a single, median, irregularly shaped eminence. By the side of