1102 SURGICAL AXD TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY The superior carotid triangle is bounded above by the digastric, below by the omo-hyoid, and behind by the sterno-mastoid. It contains the upper part of the common carotid and its branches, the external being somewhat anterior to the internal. All the branches of the external carotid, save the three just given, are found in this space, together with their veins, the internal jugular vein, the vagus and sympathetic nerves, and, for a short distance, the spinal accessory, together with those nerves which lie in front of and behind the carotids. The inferior carotid or tracheal triangle is bounded above by the omo-hyoid, behind by the sterno-mastoid, and in front by the middle line of the neck. It contains the lower part of the carotid sheath and its contents, with, behind it, the inferior laryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid vessels, and to the inner side the trachea and thyroid gland. The position of the branches of the external carotid should be remembered. The superior thyroid, arising just below the level of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, passes downwards and forwards to the back part of the thyroid cartilage and upper part of the thyroid body. Many of its branches are important in surgery. The superior laryngeal perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane. The sterno- mastoid passes outwards into the middle of the muscle, across the carotid sheath. The crico-thyroid crosses the space of the same name just below the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. The little hyoid branch runs to the lower border of the hyoid bone. The lingual artery arises from the parent trunk, opposite the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid, and passes forwards just above the great cornu. and thence to the side of the tongue. In the first part of its course, before it reaches the hyo-glossus, it is curved, at first ascending, and then, having ascended slightly, before it reaches the hyo-glossus, and while it lies under it. its curve is gentle, with the concavity upwards; beyond the hyo-glossus, as it lies on the muscles of the tongue beneath the mucous membrane, it is tortuous. The lingual vein, it will lie remembered, does not run with its artery, but lies superficial to the hyo-glossus. It receives the two small venae comites, which run with the lingual itself just before it crosses the common carotid. The line of the facial artery (fig. 667), which often arises with the lingual, has been given on page 1091. The occipital artery (fig. 667), starting on the same level as the facial (i.e. a point a little above and outside the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone), follows a line drawn upwards and outwards, first to the interval between the transverse process of the atlas and the mastoid process, the former bone being felt just below and in front of the tip of the latter; thence, lying in the occipital groove of the mastoid, the artery ascends gradually, enters the scalp, together with the great occipital nerve, at a point about midway between the external occipital prominence and the mastoid process, to follow, tortuously and superficial to the aponeurosis, the line of the lambdoid suture (p. 1088). The surface-marking of the digastric and omo-hyoid, which subdivide the anterior triangle into the three smaller subtriangles above described, should be noted. The line of the posterior belly of the digastric corresponds to one drawn from the apex of the mastoid process to a point just above the junction of the great cornu and body of the hyoid bone; and from this spot, which gives the point of meeting of the two tendons, one slightly curving upwards to a point just behind the symphysis menti. would give that of the anterior belly. To trace the omo-hyoid, a line should be drawn from the lower margin of the side of the hyoid bone obliquely downwards, so as to cross the common carotid opposite the cricoid cartilage, and thence curving outwards under the sterno-mastoid at the junction of its middle and lower thirds, and then on- wards and still outwards, parallel with and a little above the clavicle, as far as its centre. Posterior triangle.—This shows in its lower part a wide depression, the supra- clavicular fossa. Here the brachial plexus may be felt, and, by pressure down- wards and backwards, just outside the outer margin of the sterno-mastoid, the pulsation of the subclavian artery can be stopped against the first rib. This vessel curves upwards and outwards from behind the sterno-clavicular joint to disappear behind the centre of the clavicle, the highest point of the curve being half an inch to an inch above the bone. The artery on the left side lies more deeply than the