SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1124 wards into the scrotum and penis, it loses its fat, and contains dartos fibres. The deeper layer, found only over the urethral triangle, is called the fascia of Codes (fig. 693). Attached at the sides to the rami of the pubes, behind to the base of the triangular ligament, and open in front, it forms a somewhat triangular pouch, containing the superficial vessels, nerves, and muscles, the bulb, and adjacent part of the urethra. Owing to this space being closed behind and open in front, and to its containing the above structures, fluids extravasated within this space will obviously tend to make their way forwards into the scrotum, penis, and lower part of the abdominal wall. The urethra.—This can be examined in part with the finger, but much better with the aid of a sound. The anterior, or penile, part is movable; the posterior, or deeper, more fixed. It is narrowest at the meatus and where the membranous urethra passes through the triangular ligament. It is widest in the prostatic part Fig. 692.—Deep Dissection of Male Perineum. (Roser.) The bulb is slightly raised and the rectum drawn backwards, in order to make clear the membranous urethra and prostate, which are shown incised as in the lateral operation of lithotomy. die and the fossa navicularis. One of the most important landmarks is the triangular ligament, the base of which can just be felt in a thin perinseum. The membranous urethra passes through this, about three-quarters of an inch above the central point of the perinseum, about the same distance below the subpubic ligament, or an inch below the symphysis. Above the urethra run the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. The fixation, undilatability, surrounding muscular fibres, and close neigh- bourhood of a large amount of erectile tissue (the bulb), all account for difficulties in introducing instruments past this point. It is here also that the urethra is most liable to be damaged by a fall or blow. The attachment of the deep layer of superficial fascia to the base of the triangular ligament accounts for the fact that urine extravasated from a ruptured urethra, or through an opening behind a stricture, passes usually not backwards into the anal triangle, but forwards into; the scrotum and abdominal wall. The other structures in relation with the trian- gular ligament are shown in fig. 693.