THE SKELETON 42 which gives attachment to the structures which form collectively the membranous cochlea. The lamina makes two and a half turns in all. The first turn is the largest, and forms a bulging, the promontory, on the inner wall of the tympanum. The lamina terminates at the apex of the cochlea in a hooklike process—the hamulus. The modiolus is traversed by a central canal, and presents many canaliculi for the transmission of the twigs of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve. There is also a canal which winds round the modiolus at the base of the spiral lamina, known as the spiral canal of the modiolus. The portion of the cochlea above the lamina is the scala vestibuli; the part below, that is, on the basal aspect of the lamina, is the scala tympani; it opens into the tympanum by way of the fenestra rotunda. Near the commencement of the scala tympani, and close to the fenestra rotunda, is the cochlear orifice of the aqueductus cochleae (ductus perilymphaticus). In the adult this opens on the Fig. 50.—The Cochlea in Saggital Section. (Alter Henle.) INTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS THE SPIRAL CANAL inferior surface of the petrosal near the apex, and transmits a small vein from the cochlea to the jugular fossa. Measurements of the principal parts connected with the auditory organs:— Internal auditory meatus .... Length of anterior wall, 13-14 mm. " posterior wall, 6'7 mm. External auditory meatus . . . 14-16 mm. (Gruber.) Tympanum Length, 13 mm. Height in centre of cavity, 15 mm. Width opposite the membrana tympani, 2 mm. " " tubal orifice, 3-4 mm. (Von Troltsch.) The capsule of the osseous labyrinth is in length 22 mm. (Schwalbe.) Superior semicircular canal measures along its convexity 20 mm. The posterior " " " " " 22 mm. The external " " " " " 15 mm. The canal is in diameter 1*5 mm. (Huschke.) The ampulla of the canal, 2 -5 mm. The Ossification of The Temporal Bone At birth the temporal bone consists of three parts easily separable in the macerated skull : they are the petrosal, squamosa/, and the tympanic. (The styloid process is cartilaginous with the exception of its basal element, the tympano-hyal, which, with the ear-bones, will be described with the appendicular elements of the cranium.) The squamosal and tympanic bones develop in membrane. The squamosal is formed from one centre, which appears as early as the eighth week. Ossification^ extends into the zygoma, which grows concurrently with the squamosal. At first the tympanic border is nearly straight, but soon assumes its characteristic hoi'seshoe shape. At birth the post-glenoid tubercle is conspicuous, and at the hinder end of the squamosal there is a recess where it comes into relation with the mastoid antrum. The centre appears for the tympanic bone about the twelfth week. At birth it is a horseshoe-shaped ossicle slightly ankylosed to the lower border of the squamosal, the open arms being directed upwards. The tip of the anterior arm terminates in a small