ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 848 thickening of the uveal tract in this region, muscle and folds and processes together, is named the ciliary body. The iris projects into the interior of the front half of the eye in the form of a circular disc perforated in the middle. The appearance of its anterior surface has already been described. Its posterior surface exhibits numerous radial folds run- ning from the ciliary processes to near the pupillary border; a thick layer of black pigment covers it and curls round its inner edge, so as to come into view all round the pupil as seen from in front. The peripheral or ciliary border of the iris is continuous with the front of the ciliary body, where it also receives fibres from the ligamentum pectinatum iridis; in other respects the iris is quite free, merely resting on the front of the lens-capsule near the pupil. Its stroma is spongy in character, being made up of vessels covered by a thick adventitia, running from the periphery to the pupillary border, with interspaces filled by branching pigment cells, which are particularly abundant near the front surface. Deep in the stroma, running round near the pupillary border, we find a broad flat band of smooth muscle fibres, constituting the sphincter iridis. Immediately behind the vascular tissue lies a thin membrane, consisting of fine, straight fibres running radially from the ciliary border to just behind the sphincter. The nature of these fibres has long been in dispute, but they are now accepted as being undoubtedly smooth muscular, a dila- tor iridis. The sphincter iridis and the ciliary muscle are supplied by the third nerve, and the dilator iridis by the sympathetic, all by way of the ciliary ganglion. Quite posteriorly is the pigment already mentioned, really consisting of two layers of pigmented cells, each layer representing the extension forwards of one subdivision of the retina. The front of the iris is covered by a delicate epithelial layer, a continuation of that lining Descemet's membrane. The colour of the iris in different individuals depends upon the amount of stromal pigment. 3. The innermost or nervous coat.—The inner surface of the uveal tract is everywhere lined by a layer of pigment of corresponding extent, which usually adheres to it closely on dissection. Developmentally, however, this general pigment lining is quite distinct from the uveal coat, and represents the outer wall of the secondary optic vesicle or embryonic retina: it consists of a single layer of pig- mented epithelial cells. The amount of pigment is greatest anteriorly, over the ciliary region and iris, and there is again a small local increase posteriorly, corre- sponding to the macula lutea and to the edge of the optic foramen. In the ciliary region these cells have recently been described as lining numerous narrow tubular depressions in the inner part of the uveal tract, and they seem here to have a special function, viz. that of secreting the intraocular fluids. From the manner in which the secondary optic vesicle, or optic cup, is formed, its two walls are necessarily continuous in front, at what may be termed the lip of the cup; we have just observed that the outer wall lines the uveal coat everywhere and corresponds in extent; consequently, the lip must be looked for at the edge of the pupil, i.e. at the termination of this coat anteriorly. The inner wall of the cup, consequently, reaches from the lip, or pupillary edge, in front, to the optic stalk or nerve behind, and is in close apposition to the pigment-epithelium; unlike the outer, however, this wall is represented in the developed eye by tissues very dissimilar in structure in different parts of its extent. Tracing it backwards from the pupillary edge, we find that over the whole posterior surface of the iris it exists as a single layer of pigmented epithelium, the developmental changes having here produced a result similar to what Ave have found throughout in the outer wall: here, accord- ingly, we have a double layer of pigment cells. At the root of the iris the single inner layer of cells still exists; but now they become destitute of pigment, and this condition obtains over the entire ciliary region, constituting what is known as the pars ciliaris retinae. At the line of the ora serrata the tissue derived from the inner wall abruptly increases in thickness, and rapidly acquires that complexity of structure characteristic of the retina proper, which extends from here to the optic nerve. It consists of several layers—nerve-fibres, nerve-cells, and nerve-epithelium— held together by a supporting framework of delicate connective tissue. The nerve- epithelium is on the outer surface, immediately applied to the pigment-epithelium; at the posterior pole of the eye a small spot (fovea centralis) exists, where this is