1139 FEMORAL HERNIA Uses of the 'saphenous opening.'—Though a weak spot, it is so on purpose to transmit the saphena to the femoral vein, and the superficial to the deep lymphatics. The depression is present in order to allow the saphena vein to be protected from pressure in flexion of the thigh. Site.—At the inner and Tipper part of the thigh, with its centre an inch and a half below and outside the spine of the pubes. Diameters.—One inch (25 mm.) vertically, by a half or three-quarters of an inch. Shape: oval, with its long axis downwards and outwards. Two extremities or cornua : upper blending with Gimbernat's ligament; lower, where the two parts of the fascia lata meet. Two borders: outer also known as the ligament of Hey, or femoral ligament, or falciform process of Burns. Semilunar in shape, arching downwards and out- wards from Gimbernat's ligament to the inferior cornu. This lies over the femoral vessels, and is adherent to them; to it is fixed superficially the cribriform fascia (vide infra). The inner border is much less prominent, owing to the weakness of the pubic part of the fascia lata which forms it. (6) Femoral sheath.—This is a funnel-shaped sheath, carried out by the femoral vessels under Poupart's ligament, and continuous above (in front) with the transversalis fascia as it descends to the ligament, lining the inner surface of the abdominal wall, and (behind) with the iliac fascia, and below continuous with the proper sheath of the femoral vessels. It is not only funnel-shaped, but large and loose, for two reasons: (a) That there be plenty of room for the femoral vein, and the slowly moving venous current in it to ascend without compression; (b) to allow of all the movements of the thigh taking place—flexion and extension—without undue stretching of the vessels. By two connective tissue septa the sheath is divided into three compartments—the outer for the artery, the middle for the vein, and the internal one for the femoral canal (vide infra). Thus one septum lies between the artery and vein, and another between the vein and the femoral canal. (7) Femoral canal.—Definition: the innermost division of the femoral sheath. The fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca meet directly on the outer side of the femoral artery, but not so closely on the inner side of the femoral vein. Hence a space exists here, perhaps to prevent the thin-walled vein, with its sluggish current, being pressed upon. Thus, a slight gap exists here—not a canal, unless so made by a knife or by the dilating influence of a hernia. Length : about three-quarters of an inch (19 mm.). Limits: below, saphenous opening; above, femoral ring (vide infra). Boundaries.—Externally, a septum between it and the vein; internally, base of Gimbernat's ligament and meeting of fascia iliaca and transversalis; behind, fascia iliaca; in front, fascia transversalis. Contents.— Cellular tissue and fat, continuous with extra-peritoneal fatty layer. A lymphatic gland, which is inconstant. Lymphatics passing from superficial (groin) glands to those deep in the iliac fossa. (8) Femoral ring.—This is mainly an artificial product. It is the upper or abdominal opening of the femoral canal. Shape: oval, with its long axis trans- verse. It is larger in women. Boundaries: internally, Gimbernat's ligament; externally, the femoral vein; in front, Poupart's ligament and the thickening of the transversalis fascia attached to it, and called ' the deep crural arch '; behind, the pectineus and the ilio-pectineal line. It is closed by the septum crurale, which is a barrier of fatty connective tissue, continuous with the extra-peritoneal fatty layer, perforated by lymphatics passing from the superficial to the deep group. Position of vessels around the ring.—Outside, the femoral vein; above, the epigastric vessels; towards the inner side there may be an unimportant branch between the epigastric artery above and the obturator below. If, instead of the above unimportant branch, the obturator artery comes off abnormally from the deep epigastric, it will descend, and usually does so, close to the junction of the external iliac and common femoral vein, and thus to the outer, and so the safe, side of the ring (fig. 704, A). In a very few cases it curves more inwards, close to Gimbernat's ligament, and thus to the inner side of the ring, and is then in great danger (fig. 704, B). Sir William Lawrence calculated that this took place once in a hundred cases. Course of femoral hernia.—At first this is downwards in the femoral canal.