479 THE COMMON CAROTID border of the sterno-mastoid there is a communicating vein between the facial and anterior jugular veins, which, as it crosses the line of the carotid artery, is in danger of being wounded in the operation of tying the carotid. The descendens hypoglossi nerve generally descends in front of the carotid sheath, being there joined by the communicantes hypoglossi, one or two small branches of the second and third cervical nerves. At times this nerve runs within the sheath. There are usually two lymphatic glands about the bifurcation of the artery. These are often found enlarged and infiltrated in cancer of the lip and tongue. Behind, the common carotid lies on the longus colli and scalenus anticus below, and rectus capitis anticus major above. Posterior to the artery, but in the same sheath, is the pneumogastric nerve; and posterior to the sheath, the chain of the sympathetic and the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic and pneumo- gastric nerves. At the lower part of the neck the inferior thyroid artery courses obliquely behind the carotid, as does likewise the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Internally, from below upwards, are the trachea and oesophagus, with the recurrent laryngeal nerve in the groove between them, and the terminal branches of the inferior thyroid artery, the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, the cricoid car- tilage, the thyroid cartilage, and the lower part of the pharynx. At the angle of bifurcation is a vascular structure known as the ganglion intercaroticum or the carotid gland. Externally are the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve. On the right side, at the root of the neck, the vein diverges somewhat from the artery, leaving a space in which the pneumogastric nerve and vertebral artery are exposed. On the left side the vein approaches and somewhat overlaps the artery, thus leaving no interval corresponding to that on the right side. The cricoid cartilage is as a rule taken as the centre of the incision in the opera- tion for ligature of the common carotid artery. The incision is made in the line of the vessel parallel to the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The omo- hyoid forms one of the chief rallying points in the course of the operation for ligature of the artery above that muscle, the usual situation. The artery is found beating at the angle formed by the omo-hyoid with the sterno-mastoid. Branches.—(1) External and (2) internal carotid arteries. The common carotid gives off no lateral branch, and consequently does not diminish in size as it runs up the neck. It is often a little swollen just below its bifurcation, a condition that should not be mistaken for an aneurismal dilatation. Variations of the Common Carotid Arteries The variations in the origin of the common carotid have been already mentioned under Variations of the Chief Branches of the Aortic Arch (page 472). The following variations are of surgical interest:— (A) The artery may cross obliquely the lower part of the trachea above the level of the sternum. This may occur on the right side : (a) when the innominate is situated abnormally to the left of the middle line ; (b) when the right common carotid arises as the second branch of the aortic arch ; and (c) when the right and left common carotids arise as a common stem from the aorta. On the left side : when the left common carotid arises from the innominate. (B) The right common carotid may, when arising from the aorta, run behind the trachea and oesophagus to the right side of the neck. (C) The commencement of the right common carotid may be above or below the usual spot, according as the innominate bifurcates higher or lower than usual. A low bifurcation of the innominate is somewhat the more common abnormality. (D) The common carotid may run in a very tortuous manner, forming one or more distinct loops in its course up the neck. (E) The artery may bifurcate higher or lower than normal. A high bifurcation is the more common. The bifurcation may occur as high as the hyoid bone, or even styloid process ; or as low as the cricoid cartilage, or within an inch and a half of its origin. (F) The artery may not bifurcate, but give off the branches usually derived from the external division as it ascends in the neck. (G) The common carotid may be absent, the external and internal carotids arising directly from the aorta. (H) It may give off one or more of the branches usually derived from the external carotid. (I) It may give off a thyroidea ima. (J) The pneumogastric nerve may run in front of the artery instead of behind it. The collateral circulation (fig. 330), after ligature of the common carotid, is carried on chiefly