THE SPHENOIDAL TURBINAL 51 At birth this hone is represented by two scroll-like bones, very delicate, and covered with irregular depressions, which give it a worm-eaten appearance. Six months after birth a nucleus appears in the ethmo-vomerine plate for the mesethmoid. This gradually extends into the crista galli. During the third year the lateral masses and tlie mesethmoid (perpendicular plate) ankylose. The cribriform plate is derived from the lateral masses. The ethmoidal cells do not make their appearance before the third year, and they gradually produce attenuation of the lateral masses. In many places there is so Fig. 61.—Section through the Nasal Fossa to show the Lateral Mass of the Ethmoid. It shows also the Outer Wall of the Left Nasal Fossa. SPHENO-I INE FORAMEN much absorption of bone that the cells perforate the ethmoid in situations where it is overlapped by other bones. Along the lower border of the bone, near its articu- lation with the maxilla, the absorption leads to the partial detachment of a narrow strip known as the uncinate or unciform process. Sometimes a second but smaller hook-like process is formed, above and anterior to the large one. This process is so very fragile that it is difficult to preserve it in disarticulated bones. The relations of the uncinate process are best studied by removing the outer wall of the antrum. THE SPHENOIDAL TURBINAL These bones (often referred to as the bones of Bertin) are two hollow cones, flattened externally in three planes. They may be obtained as distinct ossicles about the fifth year. At this date they are wedged in between the under surface Fig. 62.—The Sphenoidal Turbinal at the Sixth Year. of the pre-sphenoid and the orbital and sphenoidal processes of the palate bone. The apex of the cone is directed backwards, and appears near the vaginal process of the sphenoid. Of its three surfaces, the outer one is in relation with the spheno-maxillary fossa, and occasionally extends upwards between the sphenoid and the os planum of the ethmoid to appear on the inner wall of the orbit (fig. 64).