590 THE ARTERIES vastus internus, where it anastomoses (fig. 376) with the deep hranch of the anas- tomotica magna and termination of the profunda above, with the inferior internal articular below, and with the superior external articular across the front of the femur. It supplies small branches to the contiguous muscles, to the femur, to the patella, and to the joint. (c) The inferior internal articular, the larger of the two inferior articular arteries, passes obliquely downwards and inwards across the popliteus, below the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and beneath the internal lateral ligament to the front and inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses (fig. 376), above with the superior internal articular and the superficial branch of the anastomotic^ magna, and across the front of the tibia with the inferior external articular. It supplies branches to the lower and inner part of the joint. (d) The inferior external articular (fig. 376) passes outwards above the head of the fibula, along the tendon of the popliteus muscle, beneath the external head of the gastrocnemius, and then under the tendon of the biceps, and between the long and short external lateral ligaments. Then winding to the front of the joint, it anastomoses above with the superior external articular, below with the anterior tibial recurrent, and across the front of the tibia with the internal inferior articular. It also supplies branches to the outer and lower part of the joint. (e) The azygos articular arises from the deep surface of the popliteal artery, and passes, with the articular branch of the obturator nerve, through the posterior ligament, directly into the knee-joint, where it supplies the crucial ligaments, and the ligamenta mucosa and alaria. It anastomoses with the intrinsic branches of the other articular arteries. (4) The terminal branches of the popliteal are the posterior and anterior tibial arteries. The former appears to be a direct continuation of the vessel, and passes down the back of the leg to the inner ankle, where, on entering the sole of the foot, it divides into the internal and external plantar. The anterior tibial turns forwards, and, passing through the interosseous membrane, descends along the front of the leg, and ends, under the name of the dorsal artery of the foot, by anastomosing, through the first interosseous space, with the external plantar artery in the sole. THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY The posterior tibial artery (fig. 377), the larger of the two branches into which the popliteal divides at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, runs doAvnwards on the flexor aspect of the leg between the superficial and deep muscles to the back of the inner ankle, where, midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and os calcis, and under cover of the origin of the abductor hallucis as it arises from the internal annular ligament, it divides into the internal and external plantar arteries. The artery is first situated midway between the tibia and fibula, and is deeply placed beneath the muscles of the calf. As it passes downwards it inclines inwards, and at the lower third of the leg is superficial, being only covered by the skin and fasciae. At the ankle it lies beneath the internal annular ligament, and at its bifur- cation also beneath the abductor hallucis. A line drawn from the centre of the popliteal space to a spot midway between the internal malleolus and point of the heel will indicate its course. Relations.—Anteriorly, from above downwards, it lies successively on the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, the posterior surface of the tibia, and the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. Posteriorly, it is covered by the skin and fascia, the gastrocnemius and soleus, and the deep or intermuscular fascia of the leg, by which it is tightly bound down to the underlying muscles. It is crossed by the posterior tibial nerve about an inch and a half below its origin and after it has given off its peroneal branch, the nerve first being on the inner, and for the rest of its course on the outer side of the vessel (fig. 374). It is accompanied by two veins, which send numerous anastomosing branches across it. In the lower third of the leg the artery is superficial, being only covered by the skin and by the superficial and deep fascise.