133 THE METACARPUS The Unciform The unciform is the most readily recognised of all the carpals, as its palmar surface presents a prominent hook-like process; this, the unciform process, has its concavity directed towards the radial side, and forms part of the inner boundary of the passage for the flexor tendons; to the apex of the process the anterior annular ligament gains an attachment. It also affords origin to the flexor brevis minimi and opponens minimi digiti muscles. The dorsal surface is rough for ligaments. The Fig. 143.—The Left Unciform. UNCIFORM PROCESS FIFTH METACARPAL FOURTH METACARPAL inferior surface has two facets for the bases of fourth and fifth metacarpals. The superior surface forms the apex of a wedge, and is smooth and rounded for articulating with a narrow facet on the ulnar side of the semilunar. The ulnar surface is mainly articular for the cuneiform, whilst the radial surface is faceted for the magnum. Articulations.—With the cuneiform, semilunar, magnum, and the fourth and fifth metacarpals. The central is an occasional element of the carpus. It is situated on the dorsal aspect of the carpus, between the scaphoid, magnum, and trapezoid. This bone is a normal element of the carpus in many mammals, even in the orang and gibbon. It is represented in the carpus of the human embryo, but in most indi- viduals it undergoes suppression or coalesces with the scaphoid. Blood-supply.—The arterial twigs to the carpal bones are derived from the anterior and posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. A large branch from the anterior interosseous is also distributed to the carpus, and twigs are furnished to it from the posterior interosseous artery. Ossification.—At birth the carpal elements are cartilaginous, and the nucleus for each bone appears in the following order:— Magnum, first year. Unciform, second year. Cuneiform, third year. Semilunar, fourth year. Trapezium, fifth year. Scaphoid, sixth year. Trapezoid, eighth year. Pisiform, twelfth year. THE METACARPUS The metacarpus consists of five bones. Each metacarpal bone has a shaft, a rounded distal end termed the head, and a square-shaped proximal extremity named the base. The shaft is prismatic; two surfaces of the prism are lateral, and the third dorsal. The lateral surfaces afford attachment to the interosseous muscles: on the palmar aspect of the shaft these surfaces approach each other, and for some distance are only separated by a prominent ridge. The dorsal surface is smooth and covered in the recent state by the tendons of the extensor muscles of the fingers. Near the base, this surface is divided by a median ridge; as this ridge passes to the distal end of the shaft, it divides and forms two ridges which termi- nate in a prominent tubercle on each side of the head of the bone. The smooth surface on each side of the median ridge on the dorsal aspect, near the base, is for a dorsal interosseous muscle. The base is quadrilateral; its palmar and dorsal sur- faces are rough for ligaments; the upper end articulates with the carpus, and its lateral aspects have facets for adjacent metacarpals. The head has a semilunar