775 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE Branches.—The meningeal branch (Luschka) is given off by the hypoglossal as it is traversing the anterior condyloid foramen, and takes a recurrent course into the cranial cavity, where it is distributed to the dura mater. It is probably derived from the communicating branches of the pneumogastric or from the first cervical nerve. The remaining branches of the hypoglossal may be classified into branches of the cervical plexus which are simply adherent for the time being to the cranial nerve, and true hypoglossal branches; the latter are exclusively distributed to the muscles of the tongue. The branches derived from THE cervical plexus are the descendens • hypoglossi, and the muscular twig to the thjTo-hyoid muscle. The descendens hypoglossi parts company with the hypoglossal at the point where the latter hooks round the occipital artery. It runs downwards and slightly inwards on the sheath of the great vessels (occasionally within the sheath), and is joined at a variable level by the communicantes hypoglossi from the second and third cervical nerves, forming a loop, the ansa hypoglossi. The ansa hypoglossi may be placed at any level from a point immediately below the occipital artery to about an inch and a half above the sternum. A twig to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid arises from the descendens hypoglossi in the upper part of its course. The nerves which supply the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and posterior belly of the omo-hyoid are given off by the ansa hypoglossi. Twigs from the first two nerves pass in the muscles behind the manubrium sterni and in rare cases com- municate with the phrenic within the thorax. The nerve to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid runs in a loop of the cervical fascia below the central tendon of the muscle. The nerve to the thyro-hyoid is given off near the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and runs obliquely downwards and inwards to reach the muscle. The TRUE hypoglossal branches supply the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus, the genio-hyoid, and the intrinsic muscular fibres of the tongue. The nerve to the stylo-glossus is given off near the outer border of the hyo-glossus. It pierces the stylo-glossus, and its fibres pursue a more or less recurrent course within the muscle. The nerves to the hyo-glossus are several twigs which are supplied to the muscle as the hypoglossal nerve crosses it. The nerves to the genio-hyo-glossus and genio-hyoid arise under cover of the mylo-hyoid in common with the terminal branches to the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. They communicate freely with branches of the lingual, forming long loops which lie on the hyo-glossus muscle. From these loops twigs pass into the genio-hyo-glossus and into the muscular substance of the tongue.