THE SKELETON 88 The mandibular canines have not such pronounced features as the maxillary; the point is blunter, and the median ridge is absent from the lingual surface. The maxillary premolars or bicuspids.—The crown of the first premolar has a grinding surface which is somewhat quadrilateral in outline; the labial is, however, longer than the lingual border. It has two cusps, of which the labial is much the larger. The cusps or tubercles are separated by a pit, but are connected by a narrow ridge along the median and distal borders. The median border is nearly straight, the distal is convex. The root may be single or it may be bifur- cated near the apex or marked by a longitudinal depression, or be double through- out the greater part of its length; it may in some specimens have three distinct roots like a molar. The second bicuspid differs from the first in having its cusps nearly equal in size. Its root is more deeply grooved. The mandibular bicuspids are smaller than the upper and differ from them in shape. The labial cusp is larger than the lingual; the cusps are connected by a low ridge, the grinding surface presents two small pits. The root is single, rounded, and tapering. The second lower bicuspid is larger than the first. The labial cusp is higher and stouter, and the distal border is much more pronounced. Its root is also single and tapering. The maxillary molars.—The first and second resemble each other so closely Fig. 95.—The Temporary Teeth. INCISORS CANINE MILK MOLARS T that one description will serve for the two. The grinding surface is quadrilateral but with rounded angles. It has four cusps, two buccal and two lingual. Of these, the anterior lingual is the largest, and is connected with the posterior buccal by an oblique ridge of enamel. The groove separating the buccal and lingual cusps extends on to the sides of the crown and is lost near the neck. The median and distal borders usually present a slight ridge. The roots are three in number, two* on the labial, and one on the palatine aspect; this last is usually referred to as the palatine root, and often diverges from the crown at a considerable angle. The mandibular molars.—The first is the most constant in form. It has five cusps on the grinding surface. Four occupy the angles and are separated by a crucial fissure. The fifth cusp is situated at the posterior extremity of the longi- tudinal fissure. It has two roots, placed one in front of the other; they are inclined somewhat backwards, and present a vertical groove which is sometimes so deep as to divide each root, producing four roots. One root only may divide in this way. The second molar differs from the first in the frequent absence of the fifth cusp; when present it is feebly developed. The roots have a tendency to become confluent. The third molars (wisdom teeth).—The upper third molar resembles in its grinding surface the adjacent molars. The two palatine tubercles are usually