877 THE MIDDLE EAR The ossicles of the ear are described on pages 66-68. Articulation of the Ossicles.—The malleus with the incus. The oblong articular surface which descends as far as the neck, on the posterior surface of the head of the malleus, is divided into two portions 'by a nearly vertical edge. The incus presents a corresponding surface similarly divided into two por- tions, and both of these surfaces are coated by a delicate layer of hyaline cartilage. A thin capsule, from the inner surface of which a delicate wedge-shaped meniscus projects from above into the cavity of the joint, is attached to the grooves, which limit the articular surfaces. The mechanism has been compared by Helmholtz to the check movement inside the key of a Geneva watch, and permits considerable gliding between the two bones. The incus with the stapes.—This joint is formed by the convex surface of the lenticular process (orbicular bone) which terminates the long crus of the incus and the corresponding concave surface of the head of the stapes. Both surfaces are covered with a layer of hyaline cartilage. The elastic capsular ligament permits but very slight separation between the Fig. 499.—Section of the Tympanum, etc. (Enlarged.) bones, but allows a somewhat freer lateral movement. This articulation has been regarded by some writers as a synchondrosis, but it is now usually described as a true joint. The stapes with the margin of the fenestra ovalis.—The so-called annular ligament is not equally broad throughout, and consists of elastic fibres which radiate as they pass outwards from the edge of the footpiece of the stapes to the margin of the fenestra. According to Toynbee, these edges are covered by a thin layer of cartilage. The Ligaments of the Ossicles.—In addition to the capsular ligaments al- ready described, certain Avell-marked bands limit the movements of the ossicles. The superior ligament of the malleus descends as a firm rounded band from the upper and outer wall of the tympanic cavity to the head of the malleus. It limits the outward movement of the handle of the malleus. The anterior ligament of the malleus is broad and strong. According to Helmholtz it encircles the long process of the malleus, and is inserted into the fore part of its neck and head.