713 EPENCEPHAL OX— THE CEREBELL UM matter which is placed below the optic thalamus, and extends backwards into the mesencephalon below the aqueduct. It appears round in coronal sections (rig. 423). The best marked of the white strands are the superior peduncles of the cere- bellum, the fillet, and the posterior longitudinal bundle (rig. 444). The filaments of origin of the third nerve, passing from its nucleus through the tegmentum and inner part of the substantia nigra, are also conspicuous in sections (fig. 443). The superior cerebellar peduncle is readily distinguishable in sections through the lowest part of the mesencephalon as a white, crescent-shaped bundle with its inner or concave side bounded by the grey-coloured formatio reticularis which separates it from the grey matter of the aqueduct. Higher up it takes a deeper course below the floor of the aqueduct, and decussates with its fellow of the opposite side. It then passes into the subthalamic region, and separates into an inner and an outer division. The inner division passes internal to the red nucleus and enters the under surface of the optic thalamus. The outer division passes external to the red nucleus and probably enters the globus pallidus of the lenticular nucleus. Fibres have been described as passing from the red nucleus to the cerebral cortex. The fillet appears at the level of the lower quadrigeminate bodies as a flat band of longitudinal fibres in the ventral part of the tegmentum, into which it has passed from the pons (fig. 429) and dorsal to the substantia nigra. It consists of three parts, an outer or lateral, internal or mesial, and an intermediate or middle part. The lateral part passes outwards to the surface and curving round the outer side of the superior cerebellar peduncle it terminates at the lower quadrigeminate body (fig. 425). It is also known as the lower fillet, and in addition to fibres derived from the ascending antero-lateral tract by the superior medullary velum it contains fibres from the opposite auditory nucleus, and other fibres which have passed from the nuclei of the fasciculus gracilis and fasciculus cuneatus of the opposite side by the superior pyramidal decussation. The internal or mesial fillet turns downwards into the inner part of the crusta and is continued to the sub- thalamic tegmental region, where it enters the ansa lenticularis, by which it is conveyed to the medullary lamina? of the lenticular nucleus. The middle or inter- mediate fillet is separable into two parts: an outer part, called the upper fillet, which terminates in the white matter of the superior quadrigeminate body, and a remaining portion which passes upwards into the subthalamic tegmental region, and possibly reaches the brain cortex. The fibres of the middle fillet are derived from the antero-lateral column of the cord of the same side, from the nuclei of the funiculus gracilis and the funiculus cuneatus of the opposite side by the superior pyramidal decussation, and from the cerebellum. The posterior longitudinal bundle is a strand of large white fibres which lies directly beneath the ventral part of the central grey matter of the aqueduct in the lower part of the mid-brain, whilst in the upper part it gains a more lateral position (fig. 424); it can be traced downwards to the pons (fig. 429) and medulla, and upwards to the posterior commissure, the pineal body, and the subthalamic region. It is a commissural strand which connects the cerebellum with the nuclei of the cranial nerves, and it also associates the various cranial nuclei together. It is par- ticularly connected with the third and sixth cranial nuclei of opposite sides, some of the fibres decussating through the raphe, and it possibly contains fibres which have passed upwards from the antero-lateral columns of the spinal cord. The Epencephalon Dissection.—The pia mater should be removed from the superior and inferior surfaces of the cerebellum ; care should be taken, however, in removing it from the inferior vermiform process. In dissecting the latter region, the membranes should be clipped close with scissors rather than pulled out, as by the latter method the choroid plexuses of t he fourth ventricle would be removed and the fragile posterior medullary velum would be torn. The student should examine first the upper and then the lower surface of the cerebellum, but he should defer the study of the anterior parts of the inferior vermiform process (pyramid and nodule) until the fourth ventricle is opeued. The cerebellum consists of two lateral masses, the hemispheres, which are united by a narrower median portion, the vermiform process. This is seen in sagittal section in fig. 427. This median portion is but slightly raised above the