449 TH1 'R O-II1 ~OID—DIGASTRIC Insertion.—The lower border of (1) the outer third of the body of the hyoid bone; and of (2) the inner half of the greater cornu. Structure.—This muscle is a continuation upwards of the preceding muscle, many of its fibres being derived from those of the sterno-thyroid without any attachment to the cartilage. It consists of parallel fleshy fibres which run nearly vertically upwards to their insertion into the hyoid bone. Nerve-supply.—A special branch of the hypoglossal nerve which enters the deep surface of the muscle near its posterior border. Action.—(1) To draw up the thyroid cartilage, as in swallowing, or in the pro- duction of a high note in singing; (2) in association with the sterno-thyroid to draw down the hyoid bone. Relations.—Superficially, the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid; deeply, the thyro-hyoid membrane, the thyro-hyoid bursa, the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. Variations.—Slips are occasionally seen passing from the cricoid cartilage to the hyoid bone, or between the upper border of the thyroid cartilage in front and the body of the hyoid bone. THE SUPRA-HYOID MUSCLES These consist of four muscles arranged in three layers: the first containing the digastric and stylo-hyoid, the second the mylo-hyoid, and the third the genio-hyoid. 1. DIGASTRIC The digastric—named from its two bellies (yaarrjf), the belly)—is composed of tw© flattened and somewhat spindle-shaped bellies united by a tendon. Origin.—(1) Of posterior belly, the digastric fossa of the temporal bone; (2) of anterior belly, the lower border of the body of the mandible just external to the symphysis. Insertion.—By its central tendon, which is attached to the outer part of the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone and the adjacent part of the great cornu. Structure.—The posterior belly at its origin consists of short tendinous fibres, which soon form a laterally compressed muscle. This passes downwards, forwards and inwards, and converges upon a laterally flattened rounded tendon about half an inch (1*2 cm.) above the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. The anterior belly arises by short tendinous fibres, and forms a muscle flattened from before backwards and from above downwards, which is shorter and smaller than the posterior belly. Its fibres converge as they pass backwards and slightly downwards and outwards, to end in the flattened tendon a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) above the junction of the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone. The central tendon is bound down to its insertion upon the hyoid bone, chiefly by a fibrous expansion given off from its lower border, and to a very small degree also by the oblique arch over it formed by the division of the stylo-hyoid muscle. Often, a part of this aponeurosis passes inwards across the middle line and, uniting with its fellow, forms a membranous covering to the deeper structures, and unites the inner borders of the two anterior bellies. Nerve-supply.—The posterior belly, which is really a distinct muscle, be- longing to a deeper stratum of the muscular planes, receives a special branch from the facial nerve which enters the upper part of its deep surface. Perhaps this may be due to the fact that this part of the muscle assists in swallowing; for the facial nerve, by means of the Vidian and the relations which through the lesser super- ficial petrosal nerve it has with the otic ganglion, may be considered to take part in this function, as well as in the expression of emotions. The anterior belly receives at the outer part of its deep surface the terminal filaments of the mylo-hyoid twig from the inferior dental (or mandibular) branch of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve. 29