237 THE CARPAL JOINTS ligaments prevents any rotation at the radio-carpal joint, while it permits consider- able freedom of abduction and adduction. 7. THE CARPAL JOINTS The joints of the carpus may be subdivided into— (a) The joints of the first row. (6) The joints of the second row. (c) The medio-carpal, or junction of the two rows with each other. (a) The Union op the First Row of Carpal Bones Class.—Diarthrosis, Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The bones of the first row, the pisiform excepted, are united by two sets of ligaments and two interosseous fibro-cartilages. Dorsal. Palmar. Interosseous fibro-cartilages. The two dorsal ligaments extend transversely between the bones, and connect the scaphoid with the semilunar, and the semilunar with the cuneiform. Their posterior surfaces are in contact with the posterior ligament of the wrist. The two palmar ligaments extend nearly transversely between the bones connecting the scaphoid with the semilunar, and the semilunar with the cuneiform. They are stronger than the dorsal ligaments, and are placed beneath the anterior ligament of the wrist. The two interosseous fibro-cartilages (fig. 235) are interposed between the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform bones, reaching from the dorsal to the palmar surfaces, and being connected with the dorsal and palmar ligaments. They are narrow fibro-cartilages which extend between small portions only of the osseous surfaces. They help to form the convex carpal surface of the radio-carpal joint, and are somewhat wedge-shaped, their bases being towards the wrist, and their thin edges between the adjacent articular surfaces of the bones. The synovial membrane is a prolongation from that of the medio-carpal joint. The arterial and nerve-supplies are the same as for the medio-carpal joint. The Union of the Pisiform Bone with the Cuneiform This is an arthrodial joint which has a loose fibrous capsule attached to both the pisiform and cuneiform bones just beyond the margins of their articular surfaces. It is lined by a separate synovial membrane. Two strong rounded or flattened bands pass downwards from the pisiform, one to the process of the unciform, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone; these may be regarded as prolongations of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the pisiform bone may be looked upon in the light of a sesamoid bone developed in that tendon. (b) The Union of the Second Row of Carpal Bones Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The four bones of this row are united by three dorsal, three palmar, and two interosseous ligaments. The three dorsal ligaments (fig. 234) extend transversely and connect the trapezium with the trapezoid, the trapezoid with the magnum, and the magnum with the unciform. »