38 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. the herbs and other seasoning to the meat in the pail, or inner saucepan. Cover and set to stew gently. To the butter left in the frying-pan, add three spoonfuls of browned flour ones) and stir to a smooth unctuous paste, with- out setting it on the range. Add the lemon-juice to this, and set aside until the turtle has simmered half an hour in the broth. Take up the meat, and arrange upon a covered hot-water dish ; transfer the gravy to a saucepan, and boil hard five minutes uncovered. Put in the brown flour paste ; stir up until it thickens well; add the wine and yolks of eggs, each cut in three pieces, and pour over the turtle. Panned Oysters. 0 I quart of oysters. Rounds of thin toast delicately browned. Butter, salt and pepper. Have ready several small pans of block tin, with upright sides. The ordinary “patty-pan” will do, if you can get nothing better, but it is well, if you are fond of oysters cooked in this way, to have the neat little tins made, at a moderate price, at a tinsmith’s. Cut stale bread in thin slices, then round—removing all the crust—of a size that will just fit in the bottoms of your pans. Toast these quickly to a light-bro^vn, butter and lay within your tins. Wet with a great spoonful of oyster liquid, then, with a silver fork, arrange upon the toast as many oysters as the pans will hold without heaping them up. Dust with pepper and salt, put a bit of butter on top, and set the pans, when all are full, upon the floor of a quick oven. Cover with an inverted baking-pan to keep in steam and flavor, and cook until the oysters “ ruffle.” Eight minutes in a brisk oven, should be enough. Send very hot to the table in the tins in which they were roasted. Next to roasting in the shell, this mode of cooking oysters best preserves the native flavor of the bivalves. Fricasseed I pint good broth—veal or chicken—well strained. I slice of ham—corned is better than smoked. 3 pints oysters. 1 small onion. 2 tablespoonfuls of but- Oysters. © i cup of milk. I tablespoonful of corn- starch. I egg beaten light. A Tittle chopped parsley and sweet marjoram. Pepper to taste and juice of a lemon.