94 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. “ I maic it, if I can get it in no other way,” was the rejoinder, N ever throw away so much as a teaspoonful of gravy of any kind. Season it rather highly, and set it away in a cool place until it is wanted. For a while you will have some difficulty in impressing the importance of this rule upon your cook, especially if she is allowed to have all the “ soap-fat ” she can save as one of her “ perquisites.” This is a ruinous leak in any household, whether the oleaginous “ savings ” be exchanged for soap (hard or soft), or for money. It is so easy to “ let it go into the fat-crock,” and when the cook is to gain anything for herself by the laisser-aller the temp- tation is cruelly strong—even if she have a conscience. I have known the pile of unclean fat collected for the soap- man to be swelled not only by the bits of butter left upon the plates after meals, but by quarter and half-pounds abstracted bodily from butter-tub or pot, and the abstraction never, in the phraseology of the “ conveyer,” to be “ scrupled." “ The wse convey it call! ” said honest Pistol, and to no other ethical motto has heartier response been made by the comp- trollers of culinary treasuries. In a family of ordinary size nothing should find its way into the buckets of the unsavory caUer at basement-door or back-gate. The drippings from most kinds of roast meat, if settled, strained, and skimmed, and kept in a clean vessel, answer for many purposes quite as well as butter, and better than lard. Even that from mutton should be “tried out,” strained through muslin, slightly salted, and, if you choose, perfumed with rose-water, in which shape it is better than cold cream, or glycerine for chapped hands, and is a useful cerate for cuts, scratches, etc. The oil-cake should be re- moved from the top of all gravies before they are used upon the table ; for, be it understood, is not gravy. How often I have \vished, from the depths of a loathing stomach, that certain well-meaning housekeepers—at whose boards I have sat as guest or boarder—who fry beefsteak in'lard, and send ham to table swimming in fat; upon the surface of whose soups float spheroids of oil that encase the spoon with blubber, and coat the lips and tongue of the eater with flaky scales—that these dear souls who believe in “ old-fashioned cookery,” understood this simple law of digestive gravity ! A “ rich gravy,” or “ a strong broth,” is not of necessity, then, one surchraged with fat. Beef-tea—which is the ve^ essence of the meat, and contains more nourishment in small bulk than any other liquid used in the sick-room—