62 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. sauce. When the sweetbreads are done to a fine brown lay them in this, turning them over several times, and set, covered, in a warm oven. Lay rounds of fried bread or toast within a chafing-dish, and a piece of sweetbread on each. Pour the rest of the hot butter, in which they have been lying, over them, and send to table. Roasted Sweetbreads. 3 sweetbreads. 1 cup brown gravy—veal, if you can get it. 2 eggs beaten light. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, melted. Large handful of bread- crumbs. I tablespoonful mush- room or tomato catsup. I small glass of brown sherry. A very little onion, minced fine, and stewed in the gravy. Soak the sweetbreads in tepid water for half an hour ; tl'.en boil in hot water ten minutes, plunging into very cold at the end of this time. Wipe perfectly dry, coat with the beaten egg, then with the bread-crumbs. Repeat tliis until they are thickly and closely covered. Lay upon a baking- pan, put the butter, a little at a time, over them, that it may soak into the crumbs ; set in a moderate oven, turn another pan over them, and bake, covered, three-quarters of an hour, if of fair size, basting from time to time with the veal gravy. Dish them upon toast or fried bread, give the gravy a boil- up when you have added the catsup and wine, and strain it over the sweetbreads. Sweetbreads Sautes au Vin. 0 3 sweetbreads. 1 tablespoonful of butter. I tablespoonful chopped onion and parsley, mi.xed. I cup brown gravy—veal or fowl. I glass brown sherry or fresh champagne. Salt and pepper to taste. 1 tablcspoonful mush- room, or tomato catsup. Parboil and blanch the sweetbreads, as usual; let them get perfectly cold ; cut lengthwise into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Have die butter hot in a fr)'ing-pan, and lay them in. Cook ten minutes, shaking, tossing and turn- ing them all the while ; then add the gravy, catsup, onion, parsley and other seasoning previously heated together. Shake all until they have stewed and bubbled at boiling- heat for five minutes, put in the wine, boil up once, and pour into a hot dish.