Breakfast. 47 deemed it well to specify, in all cases, which are exclusively breakfast dishes. Very many of those I have described might appear with equal propriety at breakfast, at luncheon, at what is spoken of in provincial circles as “a hearty supper,” or as an entree or side-dish at dinner. PATES. No form of meat, entrie, or made dish is more popular, and, if rightly prepared, more elegant than the pati. It is susceptible of variations, many and pleasant, chiefly in the form of the crust and the nature of its contents. The celebrated path de foie ep^as, imported from Strasbourg, are usually without the paste enclosure, and come to us in hermetically sealed jars. Pate of Sweetbreads. 0 Make a good puff paste, basting two or three times with butter, and set in a cold place for at least half an hour. The best pati covers I have ever made were from paste kept over night in a cool dry safe, before it was rolled into a sheet for cutting. When the paste is crisp and firm, roll quickly, and cut into rounds about a quarter of an inch thick. Reserving one of these whole for the bottom crust of each pat^, lay it in a floured baking-pan, cut the centre from two or three others, as you desire yo\ir pai^ to be shallow or deep, and lay these carefully, one after another, upon the whole one, leaving a neat round well, a little over an inch in diameter, in the middle. Bake in a quick oven, and when lightly browned, glaze by brushing each over with white of egg, and returning to the oven for a minute. Make ready as many sweetbreads as you need (two of fair size will make a good dish), previously prepared by boiling fifteen minutes in hot water, then made tirm by plunging into very cold. Cut them into slices, season with pepper and salt, put into a covered saucepan with a great spoonful of butter and a very little water, and simmer gently until tender all through. Cut these in turn into very small squares, and mix with less than a cupful of white sauce. Return to the saucepan and heat almost to boiling, stirring carefully all the time. Fill the path, arrange upon a hot dish, and send up at once.