17 Eggs. diately in front of, and on a level with a glowing fire. Toast over this as many slices of fat corned pork or ham as there are eggs in the dish, holding the meat so that it will fry very quickly, and all the dripping fall upon the eggs. When these are well “ set,” and a crust begins to form upon the top of each, they are done. Turn the dish several times while toasting the meat, that the eggs may be equally cooked. Do not send the fried pork to table, but pepper the eggs lightly and remove with the toast, to the dish in which they arc to go the table, with a cake-turner or flat ladle, taking care not to break them. Baked Eggs. (No. i.) ® 6 eggs. I handful bread crumbs. 4 tablespoonfuls good 6 rounds buttered toast or gravy—veal, beef, or poultry. fried bread. The latter is particularly nice. Put the gravy into a shallow baking-dish. Break the eggs into this, pepper and salt them, and strew the bread-crumbs over them. Bake for five minutes in a quick oven. Take up the eggs carefully, one by one, and lay upon the toast which must be arranged on a hot, flat dish. Add a little cream, and, if you like, some very finely-chopped parsley and onion to the gravy left in the baking-dish, and turn it into a saucepan. Boil up once quickly, and pour over the eggs. Baked Eggs. (No. 2.) ® 6 eggs. 1 handful very fine bread- I cup of chicken, game, or crumbs, veal gravy. Pepper and salt to taste. I teaspoonful mixed pars- ley and onion chopped fine. Pour enough gravy into a neat baking-dish to cover the bottom well, and mix with the rest the parsley and onion. Set the dish in the oven until the gravy begins to hiss and bubble, when break the eggs into it so that they do not crowd one another. Strew bread-crumbs thickly over them, pepper and salt, and return to the oven for three minutes longer. Then pour the rest of the gravy, which should be hot, over the whole. More bread-crumbs, as fine as dust, and bake until the eggs are “ set.” Send to table in the baking-dish. This dish will be found very savory.