158 Breakfast, Liincheon and Tea. Scald the milk ; wet the com-starch to smooth paste with a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling. Cook until it begins to thicken well. Take from the fire and stir in the butter. Let it cool while you make the almond paste and the custard. The almonds should be blanched long enough beforehand to get perfectly cold before you pound them to a paste, a few at a time, in a bowl or Wedgewood mortar. Drop in rose-water now and then, to prevent them from oiling. Make a custard of the yolks, the whites of two eggs, and the sugar. Beat this gradually and thoroughly into the corn- starch paste; flavor with bitter almond ; finally stir in the almond paste. Bake in a buttered dish about half an hour.. When almost done cover with a meringue made of the whites reserved, and a very little powdered sugar. Eat warm—not hot, with cream and sugar. It is also good when it has been set on the ice until very cold. In winter it is easy to freeze it. It is then delicious, eaten with rich cream or custard. Corn-Meal Fruit Pudding. 3 pints of milk. I heapingIndian meal. I cup flour. 4 eggs, well beaten. 1 cup white sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls butter, melted. ^ pound raisins, seeded, and cut in two. I teaspoonful, heaping, of salt. I teaspoonful mixed cin- namon and mace. 1 teaspoonful soda, wet up with boiling water. 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, sifted in the flour. Scald a pint of the milk, and with it wet the meal. Stir it up well, and let it get almost, or quite cold. While cool- ing, beat in the flour wet with cold milk. Beat all up hard and long. Make a custard of the remaining milk, the eggs and sugar. Beat gradually into the cooled paste. When all are mixed into a light batter, put in the butter, spice, the fiuit, dredged well with flour ; last of all, the dissolved soda. Beat up hard and quickly, bringing your spoon up from the bottom of the dish, and f^ull of batter at every stroke. Pour into a buttered dish, and bake in a tolerably quick, steady oven. It should be done in from half to three-quarters of an hour, if the heat be just right. If it should brown too rapidly cover with paper. This is a very good pudding.