192 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. family breakfast as may seem right to yourself, but, by all means, have it whenever you can procure it comfortably and without much expense. In warm weather, you had better banish meat from the morning bill of fare, three days in the week, than have the children go without berries and other fresh fruits. Make a pretty glass dish, or silver or wicker basket of peaches, pears or plums, an institution of the summer breakfast. In autumn, you can hav'e grapes until after frost; then, oranges and bananas if you desire. These, being expensive luxuries, are not absolutely emoined by nature or common sense. Let the “ basket of summer fruit,” however, be a comely and agreeable reality while solstitial suns beget bile, and miasma walks, a living, almost visible presence, through the land. Fruits, each in its season, are the cheapest, most elegant and wholesome dessert you can offer your family or friends, at luncheon or tea. Pastry and plum-pudding should be prohibited by law, from the beginning of June until the end of September. And in winter, a dish of apples and oranges flanked by one of boiled chestnuts, and another of picked walnut or hickory-nut kernels, will often please John and the bairns better than the rich dessert that cost you a hot hour over the kitchen-range, when Bridget was plied away to a cousin’s funeral, or Daphne was laid up with a misery in her head.” , „, „ . Am6ng the creams, jellies and “ forms of a state-dinner dessert, fruit is indispensable, and the arrangement and pre- paration of the choicer varieties is a matter for the taste and skill of the mistress, or her refined daughters, as are the floral decorations of the feast. rich Frosted pe.aches— Peaches. 2 tablespoonfuls water. I cup powdered sugar. 12 large freestones. Whites of three eggs, whisked to a standing froth. Put water and beaten whites togethp ; dip in each peach when you have rubbed off the fur with a clean cloth, and then roll in powdered sugar. Set up carefully, on the stem end, upon a sheet of white paper, laid on a waiter in a sunny window. When half dry, roll again in the sugar. Expose to the sun and breeze until perfectly dry, then, put m a cool, dry place until you are ready to arrange them m the glass dish for table. Garnish with green leaves.