Breakfast, Luiicheon and Tea. 20 ladle in one direction until it whirls rapidly. Break the eggs, one at a time, into a cup, and drop egch carefully into the centre, or vortex of the boiling whirlpool, which must be kept in rapid motion until the egg is a soft, round ball. Take it out carefully with a perforated spoon, and put it on a slice of buttered toast laid upon a hot dish. Put a bit of butter on the top. Set the dishin the oven to keep it warm, and proceed in the same way with each egg, having but one at a time in the saucepan. When all are done, dust lightly with salt and pepper, and send up hot. Poached Eggs d la Bonne Femme. © i cup butter or dripping. Rounds of stale bread, and the beaten yolks of two raw eggs. 6 eggs. I teaspoonful of vinegar. i cup nice veal or chicken broth. Salt and pepper to taste. Prepare the bread first by cutting it into rather large rounds, and, with a smaller cutter, marking an inner round on each, leaving a narrow rim or wall on the outside. Ex- cavate this cautiously, not to break the bottom of the cup thus indicated, which should be three-quarters of an inch' deep. Dip each round thus prepared in the beaten egg, and fry quickly to a yellow-brown in hot butter or dripping. Put in order upon a flat dish, and set in the open oven while you poach the eggs. Pour about a quart of boiling water into a deep saucepan. Salt slightly, and add the vinegar. Break the eggs into a saucer, one at a time, and, when the water is at a hard boil, slide them singly into the saucepan. If the yolk be broken in putting it in, the effect of the dish is spoiled. When the whites begin to curdle around the edges, lessen the heat, and cook slowly until they are firm enough to bear removal. Take them out with a perforated skimmer, trim each dex- terously into a neat round, and lay within the bread-cup described above. When all are in their places, pour over them the gravy, which should be well seasoned and boiling hot. Eggs Poached with Mushrooms. © 6 eggs. 1 teacupful of cold chicken or other fowl, minced fine. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. About a cupful of good gravy,—veal or poultry. 2 dozen mushrooms of fair size, sliced. Some rounds of fried bread. I raw egg beaten light.