Whipped Cream. 133 t ting so tired of the inevitable pie! He read aloud to me tthe other day, with great gusto, a clever editorial from the . Tribune^ showing with much ingenuity and force, that the 'weakness for pie was a national vice. I wish I had room there to reprint it. Whenever I have been compelled since tto eat a triangle of “family pie-crust,” my usually excellent ^digestion has played me false. “ Pie and soda-water ! That is a woman’s idea of a ccomfortable luncheon on a hot day in the city,” said a ^gentleman to me. “ At a bit of rare, tender steak, and a rmealy potato they would turn up their fastidious noses. ^Such gross food is only fit for a man.” The school-girl, rising from a barely tasted breakfast during which she has been saying over to herself the chro- mological table, or French verb, learned the night before, —“doesn’t care to take any luncheon with her to-day. tCertainly, no bread and butter—and sandwiches are hate- ful / If you insist, mamma, just give me a piece of pie— •mince-pie, if you have it, with a slice of fruit-cake and a dittle cheese. I may feel hungry enough at noon to nibble jat them.” Papa, running in at eleven o’clock, to announce that he hhas had a business telegram which obliges him to take the irnext train to Boston or Chicago, “has not time to think of iTood, unless you can give me a bit of pie to eat while you ;are packing my valise.” He jumps from the cars at five iP..M. to snatch another “bit of pie” from a station restau- rrant, and swallows still a third, at midnight, bought from an ! itinerant vender of such comestibles, who swings himself on Iboard when the “ through Express ” halts for wood and Mwater. If his sick headache is not overpowering, he is adequate to the consumption of still a fourth leathery ■triangle when another stop is made at six A.M. Pie is the plice de resistance in rural desserts, at luncheon and at tea, and the mighty army mustered to meet the attacks of pic-nics and water-parties in the course of the year is enough to drive a dyspeptic to suicide, when he reads the sum total of the rough computation. “ I always calculate to bake a dozen of a Saturday,” says the farmer’s helpmate, resigned to cheerfulness in the narra- tive. “In haying and harvesting I make as many as thirty and forty every week. Nothing pleases our folks so much <when they come in hot and tired, as a bit of pie—it don’t make much difference what kind—apple, berry, squash, or xlamson—so long as it is pie !” K