21 Mince the cold meat very fine and work into it the butter, with the beaten egg. Season with pepper and salt, and stir it over the fire in a saucepan until it is smoking-hot. Poach the eggs as in preceding receipt, and trim off the ragged edges. The fried bread must be arranged upon a hot, flat dish, the mince of chicken on this, and the eggs upon the chicken. Have ready in another saucepan the sliced mush- rooms and gravy. If you use the French champignons— canned—they should have simmered in the gravy fifteen minutes. If fresh ones, you should have parboiled them in clean water as long, before they are sliced into the gravy, and stewed ten minutes in it. The gravy must be savory, rich and rather highly seasoned. Pour it very hot upon the eggs. If you will try this receipt, and that for “ Eggs d. la bonne fennne ” for yourself, your family and your guests will be grateful to you, and you to the writer. Anchovy Toast with Eggs. 6 eggs. I cupful drawn butter— drawn in milk. Some rounds of stale bread, toasted and but- tered. A little anchovy paste. Pepper and salt to taste. Spread the buttered toast thinly with anchovy paste, and with this cover the bottom of a flat dish. Heat the drawn butter to boiling in a tin vessel set in another of hot water, and stir into this the eggs beaten very light. Season to taste, and heat—stirring all the time—until they form a thick sauce, but do not let them boil. Pour over the toast, and send to table very hot. Forcemeat Eggs. 0 6 eggs boiled hard. I cupful minced chicken, veal, ham or tongue. 1 cupful of rich gravy. ^ cupful bread-crumbs. 2 teaspoonfuls mixed pars- ley, onion, summer savory or sweet marjoram, chopped fine. Juice of half a lemon. I raw egg beaten light. While the eggs are boiling, make the forcemeat by mixing the minced meat, bread-crumbs, herbs, pepper and salt together, and working well into this the beaten raw egg. When the eggs are boiled hard, drop for a minute into cold water to loosen the shells. Break these away carefully. With a sharp knife divide each egg into halves ; cut a piece c