Cheese. 105 i it will save you trouble. The cream should have been set 1 aside until it thickens or “ loppers," in a solid curd. Inside tof your mould lay a piece of clean white tarletane, fitted ! neatly to the sides and bottom, and projecting all around . above the press. Pour in the cream, opening the flakes gently with a spoon to allow the whey to reach the bottom of the press, but do not stir it. Set the mould upon two slender sticks laid on a bowl, and let it drip two days. If the mould will not held all the cream, add it during the first day, as the curd sinks. By the third day it will be a rich, smooth mass. If not quite firm, trim down the round board you took out of the top, cover the cheese with a thin cloth, and press the board firmly upon it. Lay a weight on this—not heavy enough to break the net—and leave for some hours longer. A saucer or small plate will do almost as well as the board. When the cheese is ready to eat, which will be when it is firm, remove the oil from the top by laying a piece of blotting or tissue paper upon it, and lift from the mould by taking hold of the projecting edges of cloth. It will be found very nice. This is the famous English cream cheese. Cream Cheese. (No. 2.) 0 Make cottage cheese as directed in “ Common Sense in the Household,” page 268, or, what is easier, buy two or three “ pats ” of the same from some honest countrywoman in the market. To each little cheese allow a tablespoonful of melted butter, and three or four of good sweet cream, with a little salt and pepper. Work in the butter first with a silver spoon, and very thoroughly, then the cream, until all is light and smooth. Make into neat rolls, or shape into miniature cheeses upon a plate ; print as you would butter, and set in a cold place half an hour. They should be eaten fresh. Cheese Pates. 0 Rounds of bread, cut and fried as for Swiss pat^s. 5 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. i cup hot water. 2 eggs, yolks only. Pepper and salt. Handful bread-crumbs. I tablespoonful of butter Put the water on the fire, and, when it boils, stir in the butter and seasoning, the cheese, and, when this is melted, the eggs. Heat together one minute ; put in the bread- crumbs and pour a good spoonful of the mixture into each