Bread. 123 Flour to make soft dough. Knead briskly, and set to rise for four hours. Then make into rolls, and let these stand an hour longer, or until light and “ puffy,” before baking. Glaze, just before drawing them from the oven, with a httle cream and sugar. Rusk are best fresh. Soda Biscuit without Milk. 0 1 quart of flour. 2 heaping tablespoonfuls butter, chopped up in the flour. 2 cups cold water. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tar- tar, sifted thoroughly with the flour. I teaspoonful soda, solved in boiling water. A little salt. dis- When flour, cream of tartar, salt and butter are well in- corporated, stir the soda into the cold water, and mix the dough very quickly, handling as little as may be. It should be just stiff enough to roll out. Stiff soda biscuits are always failures. Roll half an inch thick with a few rapid strokes, cut out, and bake at once in a quick oven. Cream Toast. Slices of stale- baker’s bread, from which the crust has been pared. I quart of milk. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. (Very nice.) 0 Whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff. Salt, and 2 tablespoonfuls best flour or corn-starch. Boiling water. Toast the bread to a golden brown. Burnt toast is detest- able. Have on the range, or hearth, a shallow bowl or pudding-dish, more than half full of boiling water, in which a tablespoonful of butter has been melted. As each slice is toasted dip in this for a second, sprinkle lightly with salt, and lay in the deep heated dish in which it is to be served. Have ready, by the time all the bread is toasted, the milk scalding hot—but not boiled. Thicken this with the flour ; let it simmer until cooked ; put in the remaining butter, and when this is melted, the beaten whites of the eggs. Boil up once, and pour over the toast, lifting the lower slices one by one, that the creamy mixture may run in between them. Cover closely, and set in the oven two or three minutes before sending to table. If you can get real cream, add only a teaspoonful of flour and the whites of two eggs, but the same quantity of butter used in this receipt