Breakfast. 45 fully to launch John upon the day’s voyage with a smile and word of cheer. Think twice before you tell him of the cook’s indolence and stupidity, and the housemaid’s petu- lance. In the hope that the nauseating pain in your head may yield to a “ good cup of tea”—(bless it, with me, O my sisters, one and all!) it is as well to withhold the fact of its existence from him. If he will read the morning paper over his coffee, his cakes growing cold meanwhile, and thereby obliges the cook to bake twice as many as would be neces- sary for the meal were all to partake of it at the same time, restrain the censure that trembles on your tongue, and chat merrily with the children. A silent, hasty breakfast is one of the worst things imaginable for their digestion and tempers. You would often rather have “ a comfortable cry ” in a comer than act thus, but persuade yourself bravely that nine-tenths of your miserable sensations are hysterical, and, therefore, ephemeral. If we women do not know what the “morning cloud” is, nobody does. Still, remember it “ passeth away.” If possible, let your eating-room be light and pleasant,— warm in winter, breezy in summer. Not only should the table be neat, orderly, and, so far as you can make it so, pretty, but guard against what I have mentally character- ized, in some very grand salles-d-manger, as the “ workshop look ”—the look that says to all who enter—“ This is the place where you must eat.” There are tall beaufets with loads of plate and glass, side-tables with reserves of imple- ments for the labours of the hour and place ; pictures of game, fish and fruit;—more eating ;—and if the walls are frescoed, more game, sheep, and oxen, or, at the best, hunt- ing, seem to reassure the consumers of to-day that there will be more creatures killed in season for to-morrow’s dinner. Therefore, eat, drink and be solemn while doing it, as befits the season and surroundings. There is nothing like having a single eye to business. Do not fret yourself if )'Our dining-room boasts neither paintings nor frescoes. Throw open all the shutters in the morning, and coax in every available ray of sunlight. Press the weather into service to adorn the repast. If fine, remark upon the blueness of the sky and the enjoyment of the outer world in the glory of the day. If stormy, make the best of home-cheer, and promise something attractive as an evening entertainment, should the weather continue wet or snowy. A canary-bird in the sunniest window is a good thing to “>i.