238 Breakfast^ Luncheon and Tea. Candied Cherries. 2 quarts large, ripe, red 2 lbs. loaf sugar, cherries, stoned carefully. i cup water. Make a syrup of the sugar and water and boil until it is thick enough to “ pull,” as for candy. Remove to the side of the range, and stir until it shows signs of granulation. It is well to stir frequently while it is cooking, to secure this end. When there are grains, or crystals on the spoon, drop in the cherries, a few at a time. Let each supply lie in the boiling syrup two minutes, when remove to a sieve set over a dish. Shake gently but long, then turn the cherries out upon a cool, broad dish, and dry in a sunny window. Glace Cherries. Make as above, but do not let the syrup granulate. It should not be stirred at all, but when it “ ropes,” pour it over the cherries, which should be spread out upon a large, flat dish. When the syrup is almost cold, take these out, one by one, with a teaspoon, and spread upon a dish to dry in the open air. If nicely managed, these are nearly as good as those put up by professional confectioners. Keep in a dry, cool place. Candied Lemon-Peel. 12 fresh, thick-skinned lemons. 4 lbs. loaf sugar. A little powdered alum. 3 cups clear water. Cut the peel from the lemons in long, thin strips, and lay in strong salt and water all night. Wash them in three waters next morning, and boil them until tender in soft water. They should be almost translucent, but not so soft as to break. Dissolve a little alum—about half a teaspoonful, when powdered—in enough cold water to cover the peel, and let it lie in it for two hours. By this time the syrup should be ready. Stir the sugar into three cups of water, add the strained juice of three lemons and boil it until it “ ropes ” from the end of the spoon. Put the lemon-peels into this, simmer gently half an hour ; take them out and spread upon a sieve. Shake, not hard, but often, tossing up the peels now and then, until they are almost dry. Sift granulated sugar over them, and lay out upon a table spread with a clean cloth. Admit the air freely, and, when perfectly dr)’, pack in a glass jar.