8 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea, can use to her own and her friends’ advantage, in order to have a perfectly appointed house ? to wear herself out chas- ing around after servants and children that things may be always done well, and at the stated time ? 1 have seen so many women of brains wear out and die in harness, trying to do their self-imposed duty ; to see that the large establish- ments their husbands’ wealth, position and wishes place in their care shall be perfect in detail. And these women could have been so happy and enjoyed the life they threw away, if. they had only known how not to keep house. While, on the other hand, with a small income and one servant the matter is so much worse. I should not mind if one could ever say ‘ It is a well-finished thing ! ’ But you only finish one thing to begin over again, and so on, until you die and have nothing to show for your life’s work. It looks hopeless to me, I confess. I wish you would show me the wisdom—or the folly of it all.” Now, I do not propose to show the folly of anything such as a girl that writes. She is a sincere inquirer after truth. When her letter came I tucked it under my inkstand, and said,“ There is a text ready-written, and in clerkly hand, for my next ‘ Familiar Talk !’ ” She is altogether too sensible and has too true a sense of humor to be offended when I tell her, as I shall, that her lament over unfinished work reminded me comically of the story of the poor fellow who cut his throat, because, as he stated in his letter of explana- tion and farewell—“ He was tired of buttoning and un- buttoning ! ” There is a deal that is specious in the thread- bare adage set forth in dolesome rhyme :— ** Man’s work is from sun to sun, But woman’s work is never done.” Nothing in this world, or in all tiine, is finished. Or, if finished, it is not well with it. We hear this truth reiterated in every stroke of the artisan’s hammer, employed—from the day he enters upon his apprenticeship to that on which the withered hand can no longer, by reason of age, lift the ponderous emblem of his craft—in beating upon what looks to the observer of to-day like that which engaged him yes- terday ; which to the spectator of twenty to-morrows will seem the same as that which calls out the full strength of the brawny arm this hour. When he dies, who will care to chronicle the circumstance that he made, in the course of a long and busy life, forty thousand horseshoes, or assisted in the manufacture of one thousand engine-boilers ? We learn the same Hsson from the patient eyes of the teacher while