88 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. Fried Chicken. 0 I tender young chicken, cut into joints. 2 eggs, beaten light. i cup of cracker-crumbs. Sweet lard, dripping, or the best salad-oil for frying. Lay the chicken in salt-and-water fifteen minutes; wipe diy^, pepper and salt, dip in the egg, then in the cracker- crumbs, and fry slowly in hot lard or dripping. Drain dry, pile on a hot dish, and lay sprigs of parsley over it. Chicken Fried Whole. Butter or very nice drip- ping for frying. I young, tender chicken, trussed as for roasting, but not stuffed. Clean the chicken, wash out well, and dry, inside and out. Put it in your steamer, or cover in a cullender over a pot of boiling water, keeping it at a fast boil for fifteen or twenty minutes. Have ready the boiling hot fat in a deep frj'ing- pan, or cruller-kettle. It should half cover the chicken, when having floured it all over, you put it in. When one side is a light brown, turn it. When both are cooked, take up, put into a covered kettle or tin pail, and set in a pot of hot water, which keep at a slow boil, half an hour. If you like a delicate flavor of onion, put a few slices in the bottom of kettle before the chicken goes in. Anoint the chicken plen- tifully, after laying it on a hot dish, with melted butter, in which you have stirred pepper and chopped parsley. This is a new and attractive manner of preparing chickens for the table. None but tender ones should be fried in any way. “ Smothered ” Chicken. 0 2 tender chickens, roast- ing size, but not very large. Pepper, salt, and browmed flour for gravy. Clean and w'ash the chickens, and split down the back as for broiling. Lay flat in a baking-pan, dash a cupful of boiling water upon them; set in the oven, and invert another pan over them so as to cover tightly. Roast at a steady, but moderate heat, about half an hour, then lift the cover and baste freely with butter and a little of the water in which the fowls are cooking. In ten minutes more, baste again with gravy from the baking-pan. In five more, with melted butter, and abundantly, going all over the fowls, which should now begin to brown. Increase the heat, still keeping the chickens covered. A few' minutes before dish-