Fish. 27 Baked Cod or Halibut. © thyme, with a mere suspicion of minced onion. teaspoonful anchovy sauce, or Harvey’s, if you prefer it. i cupful drawn butter. Juice of half a lemon. I beaten egg. A piece of fish from the middle of the back, weigh- ing four, five or six pounds. A cupful of bread-crumbs, peppered and salted. 2 tablespoonfuls boiled salt pork, finely chopped. A tablespoonful chopped parsley, sweet marjoram and Lay the fish in very cold salt-and-water for two hours ; wipe dry; make deep gashes in both sides at right angles with the back-bone and rub into these, as well as coat it all over with a force-meat made of the crumbs, pork, herbs, onion and seasoning, bound with raw egg. Lay in the baking-pan and pour over it the drawn butter (which should be quite thin), seasoned with the anchovy sauce, lemon-juice, pepper and a pinch of parsley. Bake in a moderate oven nearly an hour,—quite as long if the piece be large, basting frequently lest it should brown too fast. Add a little butter- and-water when the sauce thickens too much. When the fish is done, remove to a hot dish, and strain the gravy over it. A few capers or chopped green pickles are a pleasant addition to the gravy. Baked Salmon with Cream Sauce. © A middle cut of salmoa 4 tablespoonfuls of butter melted in hot water. Butter a sheet of foolscap paper on both sides, and wrap the fish up in it, pinning the ends securely together. Lay in the baking-pan, and pour six or seven spoonfuls of butter- and-water over it. Turn another pan over all, and steam in a moderate oven from three-quarters of an hour to an hour, lifting the cover, from time to time, to baste and assure your- self that the paper is not burning. Meanwhile, have ready in a saucepan a cup of cream, in which you would do well to dissolve a bit of soda a little larger than a pea. This is a wise precaution whenever cream is to be boiled. Heat this in a vessel placed within another of hot water ; thicken with a heaping teaspoonful of corn starch, add a table- spoonful of butter, pepper and salt to taste, a liberal pinch of minced parsley, and when the fish is unwrapped and dished, pour half slowly over it, sending the rest to table