154 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. Soak the rice over-night, or for five hours, in a little warm water. Boil until tender in one pint of the milk. Simmer gently and do not stir it. Set the saucepan in hot water, and cook in that way to avoid burning, shaking up the rice now and then. When done, beat in the butter. Butter a mould well, and cover the bottom with the bread-crumbs. Cover this with rice ; wet with a raw custard made of the other pint of milk, the yolks of the eggs and the sugar. On this sprinkle suet ; then a layer of the mixed fruit. More bread-crumbs, rice, custard, suet and fruit, until the dish is nearly full. The top layer should be crumbs. Bake for an hour in a moderate oven. When nearly done, draw to the door of the oven and cover with a mCringue made of the whites of the eggs whisked stiff with a very little powdered sugar. Eat warm, with sweetened cream as sauce. But it is also ‘ very good cold, eaten with cream. This, in my opinion, deserves the highest rank among rice puddings, which are, by the way, far more resf>ectable as desserts than is usually believed. There are so many in- different, and worse than indifferent ones made and eaten, that discredit has fallen upon the whole class. If properly made and cooked, they are not only wholesome, but palat- able dainties. Almond Rice Pudding. 1 quart of milk. I cup raw rice. 5 eggs. I cup sugar, A little salt. A little grated lemon-peel —about one teaspoonful. i pound sweet almonds, blanched. Soak the rice in a very little water for four hours ; put it into a farina-kettle ; fill the outer kettle with hot water; pour a pint of milk over the rice, and simmer gently until it is tender, and each grain almost translucent. Beat the eggs and sugar together, add the other pint of- milk, then the rice. Mix all well together, flavor with the lemon-peel (or two or three peach-leaves may be boiled with the rice, if you do not like the lemon). Boil in a buttered mould. An oval fluted one is prettiest if you have it—what is known as the musk-melon pattern. It should be cooked steadily about an hour—certainly not less. Dip the mould in cold water ; let it stand uncovered an instant ; turn out upon a flat dish and stick it all over with the alinonds blanched, and cut into long shreds.