6o Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. and stew gently at the side of the range for twenty minutes —half an hour, should the sweetbreads be large. Arrange the slices symmetrically upon a hot platter, pour the gravy over them, when you have added a thickening of browned flour, and serve. There is no more palatable preparation of sweetbreads than this, especially if you add to the gravy a glass of brown sherry. Garnish with triangles of fried bread. White Fricassee of Sweetbreads. 0 3 fine sweetbreads. 3 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls of cream. I great spoonful of butter. I teaspoonful chopped parsley. A good pinch of nutmeg. I cup strong veal or lamb broth—never mutton. Wash the sweetbreads well. Soak them in very cold or ice-water, slightly salted, for half an hour. Blanch by plunging them for an instant into boiling water, after which lay for five minutes in ice-water. This process makes them white and firm. Put them into a covered saucepan with the broth, which must be well seasoned with pepper and salt, and, if you like, a very slight touch of onion. Sprinkle with nutmeg, cover closely, and stew steadily for an hour, if the sweetbreads are of a fair size, and you mean to serve them whole. If they have been sliced, three-quarters of an hour is sufficient. Heat the cream in another saucepan until scalding hot, but not boiling. Take it from the fire, and stir carefully, a little at a time, into the beaten eggs. Just before the sweet- breads are tJiken from the fire, add this mixture slowly, stirring all the time. Leave it in the saucepan just long enough to cook the eggs, but do not let it boil. Stir in the parsley at the same time. Turn out in a hot covered dish. Larded Sweetbreads Stewed. 3 fine sweetbreads. i pound fat salt pork, cut into long narrow strips. I cup good veal gravy. I small pinch of cayenne pepper. I tablespoonful of mush- room catsup. Juice of half a lemon. Parboil the sweetbreads for five minutes. The water should be boiling when they are put in. Plunge immediately into very cold salt water. Let them lie in this for five minutes, wipe them dry with a soft, clean cloth, and lay upon