44 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. attire. When the work of wearing the robe of flesh becomes a rnatter of pain and difficulty, he must be indeed hyper- critical who notes the ill-fitting \vrapper, or roughened hair. “ But the queens of the breakfast-table ! ” he says, with lifted eyebrows. “The grimy chrysalids of the afternoon butterflies ! It is not a casual glimpse of Cinderella on sweeping-day, or during house-cleaning week, that I com- plain of; but my heart swells with sincerest pity for the husbands before whose eyes the play is enacted three hundred and sixty-five times every year ; to whom the elf- locks and collarless neck, the greasy, lank, tom dressing- gown of dark calico appear as surely and regularly as the light of each new day.” I do not say that you should bring to the breakfast- table a face like a May morning. I hate stereotyped phrases and stereotyped smiles. But try to look as gracious as though a visitor sat between you and the gentleman at the foot of the board. It is not always easy to appear even moderately cheerful at breakfast-time. An eminent phy- sician told me once, as the result of many years’ study and observation, that no woman should be up in the morning more than an hour before breaking her fost. My own ex- perience has so far corroborated the wisdom of the advice that I always strive to impress upon my domestics, especially the not strong ones, the expediency of eating a slice of bread and drinking a cup of tea during the interval that must elapse between their rising hour and the kitchen breakfast. I practise the like precaution against faintness and head- ache, in my own case, when I have to give my personal superintendence to the morning meal, or when it is later than usual. But \vith all precautionary measures, I believe “before breakfast” to be the most doleful hour of the twenty-four to a majority of our sex. In winter, the house is at a low temperature ; dressing, a hurried and disagree- able business; the children are drowsy, lazy, and cross ; John “doesn’t want to seem impatient, but would like to have breakfast on time, to-day, my dear, as I have an im- portant engagement." While the mother, who has slept with one ear quite open all night, and one eye half shut, because she fancied, at bed-time, that baby’s breathing was not quite natural, fights twenty battles with bodily discomfort and spiritual irritability before she takes her seat behind the cofifee-um, and draws her first long breath at the beginning of the “blessing,” that reminds her of the mercies, new every morning, which are still hers. For all this, try woman-