132 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. The churn is held about a quarter of an inch from the bottom, that the cream may pass freely below it. As the stiffened froth rises to the top of the cream, it should be removed to a wire sieve set over a dish. If you have no sieve, lay a piece of coarse lace or tarletane within a cullender, and put the “ whip,” a few spoonfuls at a time, upon it. The cream that drips into the dish below should be returned to the pail and churned over. I regret that the name of the patentee appears nowhere upon the modest but excellent little machine that has supplied me with so many trifles and Charlotte Russes. The grand desideratum in making a “ whip,” is to have real cream. It should also be perfectly sweet. The con- fectioner from whom I always procure mine advised me once to put the merest pinch of soda in the cream in warm weather, before beating it, a hint that has proved very useful to me. With this precaution, unless the cream be really on the verge of souring, you will never chum your “whip” to butter, of which lame and lamentable conclusion I had experience several times before I received the friendly suggestion. Get good cream, then. It is better worth your while to pay half a dollar a quart for it than half the sum for the thinner, poorer liquid sold under the same name at the milk-stores. In the country, of course, the true article should be abundant, and in town, you can generally pur- chase small quantities at the confectioners’. A pint well worked will yield enough “ whip ” for the dessert of a small family. It should be kept in a cold place until needed, and not kept long anywhere. Whipped cream is a delightful addition to coffee. John will relish his after-dinner cup much better if you will mantle it with this snowy richness. Remember this when preparing your syllabub or trifle, and set aside a few spoon- fuls before seasoning it. Don’t be afraid of undertaking “fancy dishes.” Sally forth bravely into the region of delicate and difficult dainties, when you are considering family bills of fare, and you will not be dismayed when called to get up a handsome “com- pany ” entertainment. “ Grandmother’s way ” may suit Mesdames Dull and Bigott, but you, being accustomed to use your reasoning powers, should remember that our estimable maternal progenitors knew as little of locomotives and magnetic telegraphs as of canned fruits and gelatine. And, entre nous, I for one, and my John for two, are get-