231 Beverages. Strawberry Shrub. 4 quarts of ripe strawber- ries. The juice of ‘4 lemons. 4 lbs. of loaf sugar. I pint best brandy, or color- less whisky. Mash the berries and squeeze them through a bag. Add the strained lemon-juice ; bring quickly to a fast boil, and after it has boiled five minutes, put in the sugar and cook five minutes more. Skim as it cools, and, when quite cold, add the brandy. Be sure that your bottles are perfectly clean. Rinse them out with soda-and-water; then, with boiling water. The corks must be new. Soak them in cold water; drive into the bottles; cut off even with the top; seal with beeswax and rosin, melted in equal quantities, and lay the bottles on their sides in dry sawdust. Strawberries, preserved in any way, do not keep so w'ell as some other fruits. Hence, more care must be taken in putting them up. Lemon Shrub. Juice of six lemons, and grated peel of two. Grated peel of i orange. 3 lbs. loaf sugar. Steep the grated peel in the brandy for two days. Boil the sugar-and-water to a thick syrup, and when it is cool, strain into it the lemon-juice and the liquor. Shake up well for five minutes, and bottle. Seal the bottles and lay them on their sides. CURA90A. 3 pints of cold water. 3 pints of brandy or white whisky. Grated peel and the juice of 4 fine oranges. I lb. of rock candy. I cup of cold water. I teaspoonful cinnamon. 5 teaspoonful nutmeg. A pinch of cloves. I pint very fine brandy. Break the candy to pieces in a mortar, or, by pounding it in a cloth, cover with cold water and heat to a boil, by which time the candy should be entirely dissolved. Add the orange-juice, boil up once and take from the fire. When cold, skim, put in the spices, peel, and brandy ; put it into a stone jug, and let it stand for a fortnight in a cool place. Shake every day, and at the end of that time strain through flannel, and bottle. This' is an excellent flavoring for pudding sauces, custards, trifles, etc. For tipsy Charlottes and like desserts, it is far superior to brandy or wine. Q 2