139 Fancy Dishes for Dessert. slices of cake, cut of a shape and size that will fit your mould, upon a flat dish, and wet them with the sherry. Rinse out a pudding or jelly mould with cold water, put a thick layer of the “ sponge ” in the bottom, pressing and smoothing it down, then one of cake, fitted in neatly; another of the sponge, proceeding in this order until all is used. The upper layer—the base when the sponge is turned out should be of cake. Serve in a glass dish with some of the custard poured about the base, and send around more in a sauce-tureen or silver cream-pitcher. Season the custard with vanilla. An Almond Charlotte. 0 I quart milk. I pintrichcream—whipped stiff. Whites of 3 eggs. I great cup white sugar— ! powdered. j I pound sweet almonds, | blanched and cold. i Rose-water and essence of bitter almond for flavor- ing. I stale sponge-cake sliced. Icing for top of cake. I package gelatine soaked in a cupful of the milk. Heat the rest of the milk to boiling ; put in the sugar and soaked gelatine. Heat again before adding the almond paste. This ^should be ready before you begin the Charlotte. Blanch the almonds by putting them into boiling water, skinning them, and letting them get cold and crisp. Pound in a mortar, dropping in rose-water, now and then, to pre- vent oiling. Stir this paste well into the hot milk; let it simmer with it two or three minutes ; then strain through coarse muslin, squeezing hard to get out the strength. Flavor and set by until cold and a little stiff around the edges. Beat the whites of the eggs stiff and add the gelatine gradually—beating steadily—alternately with the whipped cream. Butter your mould, and line with slices of sponge-cake fitted closely together. Fill with the mixture, pressing it in firmly and evenly. In eight or ten hours, turn It out upon a dish, and ice as you would a cake, but on the top only. While the frosting is soft, ornament with fancy candies, laid on in any shape you may fancy. (9r, You may simplify matters by reserving one large piece of cake—a slice cut the full width of the loaf; trimming it to