68 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. habit of repeating without much thought of what they mean, With a majority (I wish I were not obliged to say it!) it is rather a boast than a lament. The notable housekeeper who would be ashamed to admit that she does not look narrowly after paper and twine, bits of cold meat and scraps of butter, does not calculate wisely concerning coal, candle- ends and crusts—confesses, without a blush, that she takes no thought of the gold-dust, known among us as minutes and seconds, sifting through her lax fingers. By-and-by, she is as truly impoverished as if she had thrown away the trea- sure in nuggets, and then comes the lament, not repentance. She is “ run to death with work, but she doesn’t see how it is to be helped. All other housekeepers are the same. She never could economize time ; has no genius for arranging her labors to advantage.” The building of such an one is the heaping together of boulders with crevices between, through which the winds of disappointment whistle sharply. System—by which we me.an a sagacious and economical apportionment of the duty to the hour and the minute ; an avoidance of needless waste of time ; a courageous putting forth of the hand to the plough, instead of talking over the work to be done while the cool morning moments are flying—“ System,” then, is not a talent! I wish I could write this in terms so strong and striking as to command the attention, enforce the belief of those whom I would reach. It is not a talent. Still less is it genius. It is a duty! and she who shirks it does herself and others wrong. If you cannot order your household according to this rule the fault is yours, and the misfortune theirs. “ We are living too fast! ” is the useless note of alarn; sounded from press, and pulpit, and lecture-room ; echoed in a thousand homes, in various accents of regret and dismay ; most fearfully by the rattling clods upon the coffin- lid, that hides for ever the careworn face of wife and mother, who has been trampled to death by the press of iron-footed cares. Is not this haste begotten by waste ? Is there any good reason why, in our homes—yours and mine, my toiling sister—and in those of our neighbors to the right and left of us, should not reign such method as prevails in our husbands’ places of business ? Why, instead of meeting the morning with uplifted hands and the already desponding cry, “ 1 have so much to do I cannot decide what to lay hold of first! ” we should not behold our path already mapped out by our provident study over-night—its