IIS Bread. Melt, but do not heat the butter ; add to the milk and beaten yolks ; next, the soda ; then, the meal, alternately with the whites ; then, the sugar, lastly the flour, through which the cream tartar has been sifted, stirring it lightly and swiftly. Bake in a broad, shallow pan, in a tolerably brisk oven,—or, if you prefer, in muffin-rings. Loaf Corn-Bread. (Exeellent.) 0 2 heaping cups white In- dian meal. I heaping cup flour. 3 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately. 2^ cups of milk. I large tablespoonful of butter—melted, but not hot. I large tablespoonful white sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda, dis- solved in hot water. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tar- tar, sifted with the flour, and added the last thing. I teaspoonful of salt. Bake steadily, but not too fast, in a well-greased mould. Turn out, when done, upon a plate, and eat at once, cutting it into slices as you would cake. After twelve years’ trial of this receipt, I have come to the conclusion that there is no better or more reliable rule for the manufacture of corn-bread. In all that time, there has hardly been a Sunday morning, winter or summer, when the family was at home, on which a loaf of this bread has not graced my breakfast-table, and unless when, through negligence, it has been slightly scorched or underdone, I have never known it to come short of excellence. In cutting corn-bread, do not forget to hold the knife perpendicularly, that the spongy interior of the loaf may not be crushed into heaviness. Very good corn-bread is often ruined by neglect of this precaution. Corn-Meal Muffins. (Eaised.) 0 3 cups white Indian meal. 3 tablespoonfuls yeast. I cup flour. I quart scalding milk. 3 eggs, beaten to a froth, yolks and whites apart. I tablespoonful of white sugar. I tablespoonful lard. I tablespoonful butter. I teaspoonful salt. Pour the milk boiling hot upon the meal ; stir well and leave until nearly cold. Then beat in gradually the yeast, sugar and flour, and set in a moderately warm place. It should be light enough in five or six hours. Melt, without