130 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. fast at the windlass-handle, and in eight minutes the meringue was ready. ‘‘ Well done! ” cried housewives, one and all. “ Great is the grand duplex back (and forward) action invention, for the amelioration of weary-wristed womankind .' To be sure, it takes two people to work it, unless one can hold the bowl firmly between the knees in just the right place, but it is undeniably a wonderful improvement.” I, with the rest, cried, “wonderful!” even when the bowl ripped over on the kitchen-floor, with the yolks of ten eggs in it; when I broke the screw by giving it one turn too- many, and was blandly assured by the artificer in metals, to whom I took it for repairs, that “ them cast-iron articles can’t never be mended, ma’am, without it is by buying of a new one;” even when the cogs of the wheels became rheumatic, and hitched groaningly at every round. But when one day, in full flight through a seething heap of icing, the steel strips of the triple whirling that did the whipping, suddenly caught, the one upon the other, and came to a dead lock ; when, as I would have released them by an energetic revolution of the wheel, they tore one another out by the roots,—I arose in deadly calm ; undid the screw, set the bowl on the table, straightened my cramped spine, and sent to the nearest tin-shop for a shilling whisk. Four years ago, without prevision that one of the blessings of my life was coming upon me, I paid a visit to tny “ house- furnisher.” He had a new egg-beater for sale. “ Vanitas vanitatum ! ” said I, theatrically waving it from me, “ I am cured! ” “It comes well recommended,” remarked he, quietly. “ But, as you say, so many of these things are humbugs ! Will you oblige me by accepting this, giving it a fair trial, and letting me know just what it is ? I will send it up with the rest of your articles.” For three weeks—I blush to -write it—THE DOVER hung untouched in my kitchen-closet, and I did daily penance for my sin of omission with the shilling whisk. At last I broke the latter, and with a slighting observation to the effect that “it might be better than none,” I took down my gift. I beg you to believe that I ant not in league with the patentee of my favorite. I do not know whether “ Dover” stands for his name, that of the manufacturing company, or the place in which it was made. “ Dover Egg-beater,