Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. 152 I pint boiling water, In each of these receipts, should the fruit yield less than a large coffee-cup of juice, add more water, that the jelly may not be tough. TUTTI Frutti Jelly. (Verygood.) 0 I package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in 2 cups water. Juice and grated peel of i lemon. I fine orange, all the juice and half the peel. I glass best brandy. I glass white wine. 3 cups boiling water, J lb. crystallized cherries. i lb. crystallized apricots, peaches, &c., cut into shreds. 1 lb. sweet almonds, blanched by being thrown into boiling water and skinned. Throw into cold water so soon as blanched, until you are ready to use them. 2 cups white sugar. Mix soaked gelatine, sugar, lemon and orange juice, and peel. Let them stand together one hour, then pour on boil- ing water. When the gelatine is melted, strain ; add the liquor ; strain again through double flannel, not touching the bag while it drips. When the jelly begins to congeal, pour some in the bottom of a wet, fluted mould. A rather tall one is best. Let this get tolerably firm, keeping the rest of the jelly, meanwhile, in a pan of warm—not boiling water—lest it should harden before you are ready for the next layer. Lay a row of bright-red glac/ cherries on the jelly, close to the outside of the mould ; within this ring a stratum of the other fruits neatly shred. More jelly, and, when it is firm enough to bear them, another ring of cherries, and, within fhis, a layer of the almonds cut into thin shavings. Jelly again, more fruit, and so on until the mould is full or your materials used up. If possible, have the outer ring of each fruit and almond layer of cherries. Set in ice to form. If frozen, the jelly and fruits will be all the better. I have sometimes left mine purposely where I knew it must freeze. This is a beautiful centre-piece for a dessert or supper- table. Wine Jelly. 0 1 package sparkling gela- tine, soaked in i large cup of cold water. 2 cups white wine or pale sherry. 1 lemon—all the juice and half the peel. ^ teaspoonful bitter al- mond, or two peach-leaves. 2 cups white sugar.