26 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea, Flour the eels and ivj in the dripping, or butter, until brown. Take them out and set aside to cool while you fry the sliced onion in the same fat. Drain this, also the eels, from every drop of grease. When the eels are almost cold, lay them in the bottom of a tin pail or farina-kettle, sprinkle the onion, parsley, and other seasoning over them. Add to your gravy a little anchovy sauce, or flavorous catsup ; the juice of half a lemon, and a glass of brown sherry. Pour over the eels, cover closely, and set in a pot of warm water. Bring to a gentle boil and simmer, after the contents of the inner vessel are heated through, about twenty minutes. Too much, or hard cooking, will spoil them. Serve upon a chafing-dish. Cutlets of Halibut, Cod or Salmon. 0 3 pounds fish, cut in slices three-quarters of an inch thick, from the body of the fish. A handful of fine bread- crumbs, with which should be mixed pepper and salt with a little minced parsley. I egg beaten light Enough butter, lard or dripping to fry the cutlets. Cut each slice of fish into strips as wide as your two fingers. Dry them with a clean cloth ; rub lightly with salt and pepper ; dip in the egg, then the bread-crumbs, and fry in enough fat to cover them well. Drain away every drop of fat, and lay upon hot white paper, lining a heated dish. Cutlets of Cod, Halibut or Salmon d la reine. Prepare the fish as in the last receipt until after frying it, when have ready the following sauce; I cup strong brown gravy —beef or veal. I teaspoonful anchovy sauce or mushroom catsup. Pepper, salt, a pinch of parsley and a very little minced onion. I glass bro^vn sherry and juice of half a lemon. Thicken with browned flour. Lay the fried cutlets evenly in a broad saucepan with a top, cover with the gravy and heat slowly all through, but do not let them boil. Take up the cutlets with care, and arrange upon a chafing-dish. Pour the gravy over them. These are very nice, and well worth the additional trouble it TTiay cost to prepare the sauce.