Haste or Waste f 67 himself anew in the advertising columns of the Herald, and I lapsed into a brown study which had for its germ the query, “Is it then more respectable, even among men, to kill time than to save it ? ” I knew the reader of Froude well. He was, as I have intimated, a successful and a busy merchant ; and I had often marv'elled at his familiarity with English belles-lettres, and graver literature, the study of which is usually given up to so-called professional men. That hour a day e.xplained it all. The crowded street-car was his sedan-chair. I also knew his critic ; had seen him placed at such a woful disad- vantage in the society of educated men and women, that my heart ached and my cheeks bunted in sympathy with his mortification ; had heard him deplore the deficiencies of his early training, and that the exigencies of his business-cares now made self-improvement impracticable. He would have protested it to be an impossibility that he could find a spare hour a day to devote to the neglected task ; six hours a week—a whole day in a month, two weeks in a year. Yet a fortnight of newspaper-reading and idle gossip would be a sorry entry in his year-book. For this lazy murder of time cannot, by any stretch of conscience, be classed as healthful ; recreation, any more than can the one, two, three, ten hours i a week during which Mrs. Neverthink sits with folded hands, I discussing fashions and her neighbors’ frailties, the while her work is steadily doubling itself up, snowball-like, before the lever of each idle minute. All work and no play would make Mrs. Neverthink a dull and a diseased woman ; but the fact is, she is not playing any more than she is working, as she sits or stands to parley about trifles. She is only wasting time, making inevitable the haste. Oh ! these “ few words more,” with which the Neverthink tribe prolong the agony of their would-be-if-they-could industrious sisters, and heap-up the burden of their own coming cares ! The words which mean nothing, the driblets of a shallow, sluggish stream that meanders into anybody’s meadow, and spreads itself harmfully over the nearest pastures, instead of being directed into a straight, beneficent channel! “ I haven’t a bit of system about me! ” wails the worried creature, when the ponderous snow-ball has finally to be heaved out of the way by her own hands. it would be a matter of curious interest could I recount how often I have heard this plaint from those of my own sex who are thus straining and suffering. From some it comes carelessly—a form of words they have fallen into the