lo8 Breakfastf Luncheon and Tea. Lay these in cold—ice-water if you have it—for at least half an hour ; then upon a dry cloth, covering with another and patting the upper gently to dr>' each piece. The butter or dripping should be boiling hot. Fry the potatoes briskly, turning as the lower side is done to a yellow-brown. As you take them out of the fat—which should be done the instant they are of the right color—put into a hot cullender set over a plate in the open oven, and sprinkle with salt. Serve in a napkin laid within a hot dish anjl folded lightly over them. A dish-cover would make them “ soggy,” whereas they should be crisp. Scalloped Potatoes. 3 cups mashed potatoes. 3 tablespoonfuls cream. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt and pepper. Yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. I raw egg, beaten well. Handful dry, fine bread- crumbs. Beat up the potatoes while hot, with the cream, butter and raw egg, seasoning well. Put a layer in the bottom of a buttered baking-dish ; cover this with thin slices of yolk, salt and pepper; then another layer of potato, and so on, until all the materials are used up. The top layer should be potato. Strew bread-crumbs thickly over this. Bake covered until hot through, then brown quickly. Serve in the baking-dish. Potatoes \ l’Italienne. {Extremely nice.) 0 Enough mealy potatoes to make a good dish, boiled dry. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 1 tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper. 2 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. Whip up the potatoes, while hot, with a silver fork, instead of using the potato-beetle. This is, by the way, a much better method of mashing potato than that usually adopted. The potato is dried of all superfluous moisture, made whiter and lighter than by pounding. When it is fine and mealy, beat in the cream, the butter, salt, pepper, and whip up to a creamy heap before mi-xing in, with few dexterous strokes, the whites, which should be first whipped stiff. Pile irregu- larly upon a buttered pie-dish ; brown quickly in the oven ; slip carefully, with the help of a cakc-tumer, to a heated flat dish, and send up.