49 PaUs. beating the mixture down. Do this quickly and lightly, fill the shells, set in the oven to heat through, and when smoking- hot draw to the oven-door, and cover with the paste of egg and butter. A little cream may be added to this paste if it be not soft enough to spread easily. Shut the oven-door for two minutes, to heat the paste. Serve the dish very" hot, and send around sliced lemon W'ith it, as some persons like to squeeze a few drops over the pati before eating. Canned lobster and salmon are very good, thus prepared. Smoked salmon can be made palatable for this purpose by soaking over night, and boiling in two waters. Swiss Pates. Some slices of stale bread. A little good dripping, or very sweet lard, mixed with the same quantity of butter. Two or three eggs beaten light. Very fine cracker-crumbs. Minced fowl or veal mixed with white sauce, and well seasoned. Cut thick slices of stale bread—baker’s bread is best—into rounds with a cake-cutter. With a smaller cutter extract a piece from the middle of each round, taking care not to let the sharp tin go quite through the bread, but leaving enough in the cavity to serve as a bottom to the paid. Dip the hollowed piece of bread in the beaten egg, sift the pul- verized cracker over it, and fry in the dripping, or lard and butter, to a delicate brown. Drain every drop of fat from it. Arrange upon a hot dish when all are done, heap up with the “ mince ” and eat without delay. Devilled crab or lobster is nice served in this style. Bread path are a convenience when the housekeeper has not time to spare for pastry-making. You can, if you like, fry them without the egg or cracker ; but most persons would esteem them too rich. Stella Pate. 3 cups minced veal or lamb —either roast or boiled. If underdone, it is an advantage, and if lamb be used, every particle of fat must be left out. I can French mushrooms, or a pint of fresh ones. 4 hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and a sliced onion. 4 tablespoonfuls melted butter, or a cupful strong veal, lamb, or fowl gravy. 3 cups fine bread-crumbs soaked in a cup of milk. 2 raw eggs beaten light, and mixed with the milk.