182 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. pour the wine over them, and cover while you make the custard. Heat the milk and pour over the yolks of the eggs, beaten and strained, and half the sugar. Return to the fire, and stir until quite thick. Pour this upon the soaked cakes, slowly, that they may not rise to the top ; put in the oven, and when it is again very hot, spread above it the whites whisked stiff with the rest of the sugar. Bake ten minutes, or until the meringue is lightly browned and firm. Serve in the baking-dish. Eat cold. It will be found very nice. Apple Souffle Pudding. 0 6 or 7 fine juicy apples. 1 cup fine bread-crumbs. 4 eggs. 1 cup of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Nutmeg and a little grated lemon-peel. Pare, core and slice the apples, and stew in a covered farina-kettle, without a drop of water, until they are tender. Mash to a smooth pulp, and, while hot, stir in butter and sugar. Let it get quite cold, and whip in, first the yolks of the eggs, then the whites—beaten very stiff—alternately with the bread-crumbs. Flavor, beat hard three minutes, until all the ingredients are reduced to a creamy batter, and bake in a buttered dish, in a moderate oven. It will take about an hour to cook it properly. Keep it covered until ten minutes before you take it out. This will retain the juices and prevent the formation of a crust on the top. Eat wann with “ bee-hive sauce.” Rice Souffle Pudding. 0 ^ cup raw rice. 1 pint of milk. 6 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. I tablespoonful butter. Soak the rice in warm water enough to cover it well for two hours. Put it over the fire in the same water, and sim- . mer in a farina-kettle until the rice is dry. Add the milk, shaking up the rice—not stirring it—and cook slowly, covered, until tender throughout Stir in the butter, then the yolks of the eggs, beaten and strained, whatever flavoring you may desire, and when these have cooled somewhat, the whipped whites. Bake in a handsome pudding-dish, well buttered, half an hour. Eat warm—not hot—or very cold.