103 Cheese. ccheese, season with pepper and salt, double the paste upon i it lengthwise, pinch the edges, and when all are ready, bake iin a quick oven. Wash over with beaten egg just before : taking them up, and sift a little powdered cheese upon the top. .'Shut the oven door an instant to glaze them well; pile log- 1 cabin-wise upon a hot napkin in a warm dish, and eat at I once, as they are not good cold. This will make a savory side-relish for John’s luncheon on ra hurried baking-day. Pastry is none the worse for standing .a day or longer in a cold, dry place, and this uses up the ‘ “ odds and ends ” satisfactorily and economically. Cheese Biscuits. Some pie-paste. Pepper and salt. Cayenne Grated cheese. pepper, if you like. I beaten egg. Roll out the pastry thin ; strew grated cheese, seasoned, I over the whole sheet and roll it up tightly. Roll out again, I even thinner than before; strew the rest of the cheese ; roll up and set in a cold place, half an hour, until crisp. Roll again into a sheet, cut into squares or triangles with a cake- cutter, or your jagging-iron ; prick with a fork, and bake very quickly in a hot oven. Brush with beaten egg before taking up, and sift raspings of cheese over the top, shutting up in the oven for an instant to glaze the biscuits. Serve at once, on a hot napkin. These are, it will be seen, a modification of the “ fingers,” and will be preferred by some. Of course, to those who object to cooked cheese as indigestible, none of the com- binations that smell so appetizing and taste so savory, will be a temptation. Cayenne is said to make these more wholesome. Cheese Fondu. (Delicious) 0 1 cup bread-crumbs—very dry and fine. 2 scant cups of milk—rich and fresh, or it will curdle. ^ pound dry old cheese, grated. 3 eggs—whipped very light. Soak the crumbs in the milk; beat into these the eggs, the butter, seasoning, lastly the cheese. Butter a neat baking-dish; pour the fondu into it, strew dry bread-crumbs on the top, and bake in a rather quick oven until delicately H a I small tablespoonfui melted butter. Pepper and salt. A pinch of soda, dissolved in hot water and stirred into the milk.