104 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea, browned. Serve immediately in the baking-dish, as it soojt falls. ; The day on which this cheese-pudding first appeared on my table is marked with a “ very good.” It is a pretty, cheap and palatable entree, such as you need never be ashamed to set before any guest, however fastidious. Let me say, in this connection, in explanation not apology, for my running commentary upon receipts like the above, that it is made—the commentary, I mean, “ with a purpose.” The unexpected guest is sometimes an embarrassment, some- times a horror to the inexperienced housewife. “ I remembered the cold duck in the pantry with exceed- ^ ing joy; summed up the contents of bread and cake box to \ a crumb, between the foot of the stairs and the front-door,” -j confessed one to me. “ By the time I had said ‘ How do you do ? ’ all around, and kissed the babies, I remembered ' with a sick thrill, that the butter was low and the coffee out (we don’t drink it ourselves), and that the whole party of ■ new-comers must, at that hour of the evening, be ravenously hungry.” It is wise and provident to arm oneself against such occasions by practice in the manufacture of what may be called “ surprise-dishes.” With a crust of cheese in the larder, half a loaf of dry bread, an egg, a few spoonfuls of milk and a bit of butter, one is tolerably armed against an unlooked-for and unseasonable arrival. Give the guest my fojidti, with a good cup of coffee, or tea, or glass of ale ; bread-and-butter, cut thin, and your brightest smile, and he will not complain, even inwardly, should the cold duck be wanting. Cream Cheese. (No. i.) 3 pints of cream, with a teaspoonful of salt put in after it sours. An empty salt-box, and J yard of very stout, coarse lace. Knock top and bottom out of one of the small bo.\es used for holding table-salt, and cleanse the broad and the nanow rims remaining, thoroughly. When dry, fit over the bottom of the box itself a piece of new strong net lace, or mosquito- netting. Fasten it in place by pressing down over it the rim of the top. The net should be drawn tightly and smoothly. Tack both rim and net to the outside of the box with small tacks driven through the former, leaving the heads protrud- ing that they may be easily withdrawn. This is your cheese- press. If you can get a small wire sieve with coarse meshes,