33 Fish. Cut the lobster-meat in pieces half an inch square ; put with the gravy, pepper and salt, into a saucepan. Cover and stew gently for five minutes. Add the cream, and just as it is on the point of boiling, stir in the butter. When this is melted, take the saucepan from the fire, and stir in, very quickly, the lemon-juice. Serve in a covered dish. Boston crackers, split, delicately toasted, and buttered while hot, are a nice accompaniment to this fricassee. Canned lobster may be used if you cannot procure fresh. Lobster Rissoles. 0 1 large lobster—boiled. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Yolks of 3 eggs. Handful of bread-crumbs. I tablespoonful of anchovy sauce. Cayenne, salt, and chopped parsley to liking. Pick the meat from the boiled lobster, and pound it in a Wedgewood mortar with half the coral, seasoning with salt and cayenne pepper. When you have rubbed it to a smooth paste with the butter, add a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce and the yolk of an egg, well beaten. Flour your hands well and make the mixture into egg-shaped balls. Roll these in beaten egg, then in bread-crumbs, and fry to a light brown in sw’eet lard, dripping or butter. For the Sauce. The coral of the lobster rubbed smooth. I teaspoonful anchovy sauce. 4 tablespoonfuls melted butter. r tablespoonful of cream. Have ready in a saucepan 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter ; the remainder of the coral of the lobster pounded fine, and stirred in carefully, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Let this heat almost to boiling ; add the cream, and pour hot over the rissoles when you have arranged these upon a heated dish. Garnish with parsley or cresses. Lobster Cutlets © Are made precisely as is the paste for rissoles, except that enough flour is added to it to enable you to roll it out into a sheet about as thick as your finger. Cut this into strips about three inches in length and one in width. Fry these quickly and drain dry before arranging them in the dish. Pour the sauce over them. If properly made and fried, they are light and palatable.