226 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. “ cheering ” (if hot) “ beverage ” lowers in temperature and quality so grievously that it must be remanded to the kit- chen, and an order for fresh issued—will at once appreciate the importance of this simple contrivance for keeping up the heat of our “ mild intoxicant ” and keeping the temper of the priestess at the tea-tray down. Coffee with Whipped Cream. For six cups of coffee, of fair size, you will need about one cup of sweet cream, whipped light with a little sugar. Put into each cup the desired amount of sugar, and about a tablespoonful of boiling milk. Pour the coffee over these, and lay upon the surface of the hot liquid a large spoonful of the frothed cream. Give a gentle stir to each cup before sending them around. This is known to some as m&tngued coffee, and is an elegant French preparation of the popular drink. Frothed Cafe au Lait. I quart strong, clear coffee, strained through muslin. I scant quart boiling milk. Whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff. I tablespoonful powdered sugar, whipped with the eggs. Your coffee urn must be scalded clean, and while it is hot, pour in the coffee and milk alternately, stirring gently. Cover ; wrap a thick cloth about the urn for five minutes, before it goes to table. Have ready in a cream-pitcher the whipped and sweetened whites. Put a large spoonful upon each cup of coffee as you pour it out, heaping it slightly in the centre. Frothed Chocolate. (^Verygood.) I cup of boiling water. 3 pints of fresh milk. 3 tablespoonfuls Bakers chocolate, grated. 5 eggs, the whites only, beaten light. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar powdered for froth. Sweeten the chocolate to taste. Heat the milk to scalding. Wet up the chocolate with the boiling water and when the milk is hot, stir this into it. Simmer gently ten minutes, stirring frequently. Boil up briskly once, take from the fire, sweeten to taste, taking care not to make it too sweet, and stir in the whites of two eggs, whipped stiff, 'without sugar. Pour in the chocolate pot or