89 Game. ing them, test with a fork to ascertain if they are tender. When done they should be of a mellow brown hue all over the upper part—a unifonn and pleasing tint. Dish, salt and pepper them; thicken the gravy left in the pan with browned flour, adding a little water, if necessary, season with pepper, salt and parsley, and send up in a gravy boat. The flavor of “smothered” chicken—so named by the ^'irginia housewife of the olden time—is peculiar, and to most palates delightful. S.MOTHF.RED CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS. 0 I fine, fat chicken. I pint of oysters, or enough to fill the chicken. Dressing of chopped oys- ters, parsley and crumbs. I tablespoonful butter. 3 tablespoonfuls cream. I tablespoonful corn- starch. Yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. Pepper and salt to taste, with chopped parsley for sauce. Clean the chicken, washing it out with two or three waters. Fill the “ craw ” with the prepared stuffing, tying up the neck verj' securely. Then, pack the main cavity of the body with oysters and sew up the vent. Have ready a clean tin pail with a closely-fitting top. Put the fowl, neatly trussed, into it, cover and set in a pot of cold water. Bring to a boil, and cook slowly for more than an hour after the water in the outer vessel begins to boil. If the fowl be not young, it may be needful to keep it in two hours. Do not opat the inner vessel in less than an hour. Having ascertained that the chicken is tender throughout, take it out and lay on a hot dish, covering immediately. Turn the gravy into a sauce- pan, thicken with the corn-starch, add the cream, parsley, seasoning, and the boiled yolks chopped fine. Boil up once; pour a little over the chicken, and serve the rest in a sauce- boat. Fondu of Chicken or other White Meat. Some cold chicken, veal, or turkey minced fine. I cupful bread-crumbs— baker’s bread is best. I cupful boiling milk. I tablespoonful butter. 1 slice cold boiled ham— minced. ^ onion boiled in, and then strained out of the milk. 2 eggs, beaten very light. A pinch of soda, dissolved in the milk. Pepper and salt to taste.