Pish. 25 A pretty way of serving them is to line the dish with clean white paper, and edge this with a frill of colored tissue paper—green or pink. This makes ornamental tliat which is usually considered a homely dish. Stewed Eels d VAllemande. I cup of boiling water. I cup rather weak vinegar. I small onion chopped fine. A pinch of cayenne pepper. ^ saltspoonful mace. I saltspoonful salt. About 2 pounds of eels. 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. Chopped parsley to taste. Make a liquor in which to boil the eels, of the vinegar, water, onion, pepper, salt and mace. Boil—closely covered —fifteen minutes, when strain and put in the eels, which should be cleaned carefully and cut into pieces less than a finger long. Boil gently nearly an hour. Take them up, drain dry, and put into a sauce made of melted butter and chopped parsley. Set the vessel containing them in another of hot water, and bring eels and sauce to the boiling point, then serve in a deep dislo. Eels Stewed d PAmericain. 0 4 tablespoonfuls of butter. Pepper and salt to taste, with chopped parsley. 3 pounds eels, skinned and cleaned, and all the fat re- moved from the inside. I young onion, chopped fine. Cut the eels in pieces about two inches in length ; season, and lay in a saucepan containing the melted butter. Strew the onion and parsley over all, cover the saucepan (or tin pail, if more convenient) closely, and set in a pot of cold water. Bring this gradually to a boil, then cook very gently for an hour and a half, or until the eels are tender. Turn out into a deep dish. There is no more palatable preparation of eels than this, in the opinion of most of those who have eaten it Fricasseed Eels. 3 pounds fresh eels, skin- ned, cleaned, and cut into pieces about two inches long. I small onion, sliced. Enough butter, or good dripping, to fry the eels. I cup good beef or veal gravy, from which the fat has been skimmed. Season with wine, catsup and lemon- juice. Pepper and salt with minced parsley for seasoning. A little flour.