86 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. Minced Chicken and Eggs. 0 Remains of roast or boiled chicken. Stuffing of the same. I onion cut fine. ^ cup of cream. I tablespoonful flour or com-starch. Parsley, salt, and pepper. 6 or 8 eggs. i cup gravy, and handful of bread-crumbs. Cut the meat of the fowls into small, neat squares. Put the bones, fat, and skin into a saucepan, with the onion and enough cold water to cover them, and stew gently for an hour or more. Strain, let it stand for a little while that the fat may rise, skim, and return to the saucepan. When hot to boiling, add the cream and thickening, with the seasoning. When it thickens, put in the chicken, after which it must not boil. Butter a deep dish ; cover the bottom with the stuffing of the fowls, crumbled or mashed up ; wet with gravy; pour in the mince ; strew fine, dry bread-crumbs over this, and break the eggs carefully upon the surface. More, and if possible, finer crumbs should cover these; put a bit of butter on each egg, pepper and salt, and bake in a quick oven until the top begins to bubble and smoke. The whites of the eggs should be well “ set,” the yolks soft. I can safely recommend this receipt. Few “pick-up” dishes are more popular with those for whom it is my duty and delight to cater. A mince of veal can be made in the same way, in which case a little ham is an improvement, also two or three hard- boiled eggs, cut into dice, and mixed with the meat. Quenelles. 0 Some cold, white meat of fowls or veal. 1 cup fine bread-crumbs. 3 tablespoonfuls cream or milk. 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. I egg, well beaten. I cup well-flavoured gravy. Pepper and salt. Chop the meat very fine. Wet the crumbs with milk, and drain as drj' as you can. Work into this paste the meat and egg, seasoning well. Flour your hands, and make the mixture into round balls, rolling these in flour when formed. Have ready the gravy hot in a saucepan ; drop in the quenelles, and boil fast five minutes. Take them up and pile upon a hot dish ; thicken the gravy with browned flour ; boil up once and pour over them.