so Breakfast^ Luncheon and Tea. Fry the mushrooms brown in dripping, or butter, with the onion, then chop rather coarsely. Work the crumbs, milk and raw eggs into a thick, smooth batter, with which line the bottom and sides of a well-greased mould or baking dish. Within this put a layer of the minced meat, seasoned to taste, wet with gravy or a liltle melted butter, and lay sliced egg over it. Next should come a layer of mushrooms, then another of meat, and so on, repeating the order given above until all your materials are used up or the mould is full. The upper layer should be of the soaked crumbs. Cover closely, and bake in a moderate oven half an hour, or until the outer crust is well “ set.” Then set the mould, still covered, in a baking-pan half full of boiling water. Keep in the oven, which should be hotter than at first, fifteen minutes longer. Pass a thin, sharp knife around the inside of the mould, to loosen the paid from the sides, and turn out with care upon a hot flat dish. You should have a little brown gravy ready to pour over it. If veal be the only meat used in preparing this dish, a layer of minced ham will improve the flavor. If these directtons be strictly followed, the entrde will be pleasing to both eye and palate. Pate of Beef and Potato. This is made according to the foregoing receipt, but sub- stituting for the bread-crumb crust one of mashed potato beaten soft and smooth with a few spoonfuls of cream and raw egg. In place of mushrooms, put a layer of chopped potatoes (previously boiled), mixed with a boiled onion also chopped. Season with beef gravy, from which the fat has been skimmed. Imitation Pate de Foie Gras. © Livers of four or five fowls, and as many gizzards. 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. A chopped onion. 1 tablespoonful Worces- ter shire, or other pungent sauce. Salt and white pepper to taste. A few truffles, if you can get them. Boil the livers until quite done, drain and wipe dr>', and when cold, rub them to a paste in a Wedgewood mortar. Let the butter and chopped onion simmer together very slowly at the side of the range for ten minutesi Strain them through thin muslin, pressing the bag hard to extract the