6 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. with a complacent smirk that would be amusing were it not so pitiable an exhibition of his real beggary—“that he would like to know what it feels like to be grateful,—^just for the sake of the novel sensation ! ” Poor wretch! I am sorry I introduced him here and now. There is a savage gp'owl in the wind ; our snuggery is a trifle less pleasant since I began to talk of him. Although I only used him as a means of “ leading up ” to the expres- sion of my owTi exceeding and abundant wealth of gratitude to you, dear Reader and Friend. If I had only time and strength enough to bear me through the full relation of the riches and happiness you have conferred upon me ! There are letters in that desk over there between the windows that have caused me to look down with a sense of compassionate superiority upon Nathan Rothschild and the Duke of Bruns- wick. I am too modest (or miserly) to show them ; but now and then, when threatened with a fit of self-depreciation, I come in here, lock the door, stop the keyhole, get them out and read them anew. For three days thereafter I walk on air. For the refrain of all is the same. “ You have been a help to me! ” And only He who knows the depths, sad and silent, or rich and glad, of the human heart can understand how much I wanted to help you. Verily, I have in this matter had my reward. Again, I say, I am grateful. Had I “ helped ” you a hundred times as well as I have, I should still be your debtor. May I read you somewhat copious extracts from a letter I received, the other day, from a wide-awake New England girl ? Not only wide-awake, but refined, original and sprightly; a girl whom though I hare never seen her face, 1 know to be a worker in life as well as a thinker. She says some things much better than I could have put them, and others as noteworthy, which I wish to answer,—or, try to answer—since I recognize in her a representative of a class, not very large, perhaps, but certainly one of the most re- 'spectable and honored of all those for whom I write the “ Common-Sense Series.” I should like to give the letter in full, from the graphic touches with which she sketches herself) “ sitting upon the kitchen-table, reading ‘ Common- Sense in the Household,’” one bright morning, when herself and sisters had taken possession of the kitchen to make preparation for “ an old New England tea-party,” at which their only assistant was to be “ a small maiden we keep to have the privilege of waiting upon, and doing our own work into the bargain ; who, in waiting at table, was never known