237 Preserved Fruit, Candies, etc. Pare and core the fruit, and throw it into cold water while you stew parings and cores in a little water to make the syrup. When they have boiled to pieces strain off the liquid; when cold, put in the sliced fruit and bring to a fast boil. It should be thick and smooth before the sugar and lemon- juice go in. Cook steadily an hour longer, working with a wooden spoon to a rich jelly. When done, put into small jars while warm, but do not cover until cold. Orange Marmalade. 0 18 sweet ripe oranges. | 6 pounds best white sugar. Grate the peel from 4 oranges, and reserve it for the mar- malade. The rinds of the rest will not be needed. Pare the fruit carefully, removing the inner white skin as well as the yellow. Slice the orange ; remove the seeds ; put the fruit and grated peel in a porcelain or enamel saucepan (if the latter, those made by Lalange and Grosjean are the best), and boil steadily until the pulp is reduced to a smooth mass. Take from the fire and rub quickly through a clean, bright cullender, as the color is easily injured. Stir in the sugar, return to the fire, and boil fast, stirring constantly half an hour, or until thick. Put while warm into small jars, but do not cover until cold. This is a handsome and delicious sweetmeat. Dundee Orange Marmalade. 12 fine, ripe oranges. 3 lemons—all the juice, and 4 pounds white sugar—the the rind of one lemon, best. Cut the peel of four oranges into small dice, and the rind of one lemon. Stew them in clear water until tender. Slice and seed the oranges ; put them into a preserving-kettle with the juice of the lemons and cook until all are boiled down to a smooth pulp. Rub this through a cullender ; return to the saucepan with tli6 sugar, and keep at a fast boil until quite thick. Stir in the “dice” from which the water has been drained; boil two minutes longer and pour into small jars. Cover with brandied tissue-paper when quite cold, pfessed close to the surface of the marmalade, then, with metal or stout paper tops. All marmalade should be stirred constantly after the sugar goes in. Use loaf, or granulated sugar for making marmalade—not powdered. The crystals are said to make it more sparkling.