138 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. the remainder of the milk, add the sugar; when this is dis- solved, the soaked gelatine. Stir over the fire until almost boiling hot; strain, and divide into two equal portions. Return one to the fire, and heat quickly. When it nears the boiling-point, stir in the beaten yolks. Let all cook together two minutes, and turn out into a bowl to cool. While it cools, churn the cream very stiff, and beat the whites of the eggs until they will stand alone. Divide the latter into two heaps. As the yellow gelatine begins to form,” whip one- half of the whites into it, a little at a time. To the white gelatine add the rest of the whites in the same manner, alternately w'ith the whipped cream. Season the yellow with vanilla, the white with the lemon-juice beaten in at the last. Wet the inside of a tall, fluted mould with water, and arrange in the bottom, close to the outside of the mould, a row of crystallized cherries. Then put in a layer of the white mixture; on this the apricots or peaches, cut into strips; a layer of the yellow, another border of cherries, and so on, until your materials arc used up. When firm, which* will be in a few hours, even in summer, if set on the ice, wrap a cloth, wrung out in hot water, about the mould, and invert upon a flat dish. Eat with sweet cream, or, if you like, with brandied fruit. This is a beautiful dessert, and a handsome centre-piece for a supper-table. It is also a safe one, even in the hands of a novice, if these directions be followed exactly. Bitter almond may be substituted for the lemon. Naples Sponge. 0 6 eggs. Use the yolks for custard. 1 quart of milk. 2 large cups sugar, and same quantity boiling water. I package gelatine soaked in 2 cups cold water. Juice of a lemon and half the grated rind. 1 stale sponge-cake cut into smooth slices of uni- form size. 2 glasses sherry. Dissolve the soaked gelatine in the hot water. Add a cup of sugar and the lemon, and stir until the mixture is clear. Set aside in a shallow pan to cool. Meanwhile, make a custard of the milk, the yolks, and the other cup of sugar. Stir until it begins to thicken, when turn into a pitcher or pail, and put away until the “sponge" is ready for table. Whip the w’hites very stiff, and beat into them, a few spoonfuls at a time, the cooled gelatine. Spread the