Haste or Waste? n I F 2 Let me probe a little more deeply yet. Have not the ’ prejudices and gallantries of generations had their effect ! upon tile formation of feminine opinions on this head ? be- ; gotten in many minds the impression that we are unjustly , dealt with in being obliged to take up and carry forward as ;a life-long duty any business whatsoever ? Is not the un- : spoken thought of such persons one of impatient disappoint- iment at finding that earth is not a vast pleasure-^ound and {existence one long, bright holiday? If men will speak of . and treat women as pretty playthings, they at least should :not complain when the dainty toy proves to be an unservice- able domestic machine. A man who acknowledges that he (dislikes the business by which he earns his living is looked .upon with instant distrust, as silly, indolent, or, at the best, vunphilosophicaL If his auditor has occasion to avail him- ;self of the services of one of the craft to which the unwilling \workman belongs, he will assuredly seek a man who would Ibe likely to do himself and his employer more credit than ccan be given by his half-hearted labor. But housewives (confess freely that they loathe housekeeping and all pertain- ling thereto. I speak that which I do know when I say that -where you find one who works con amore in her profession, •.there are two who drudge on grumblingly, ana consider •.themselves aggrieved because the morning brings labor and '.the evening care. The fault begins very far back. “ If girls knew when they were well off they would never lnnarry.” “ A butterfly before marriage—a grub afterward. “ Let well enough alone.” “She who weds may do well. She who remains single (certainly does better.” These are specimens of the choice maxims shouted from the reefs of matrimony to the pleasure-shallops gliding over the summer sea beyond the breakers. By the time the boy begins to walk and talk, the sagacious father studies his tastes and capacity in selecting a trade for him ; puts him •fairly in training for the same so soon as he is well embarked i in his teens ; sees for himself that his drill is thorough and j: ais progress satisfactory. Of the lad’s sisters their motlier will tell you, with tears in her eyes, that she “ cannot bear ; ito tie the dear girls down to regular duties. Let them take : :heir pleasure now, for when they marry trouble and respon- ■sibility must come.” Not seeing that to the unskilled apprentice the practice of Kiis art must be cruelly hard ; that her own loving hands are