64 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. in front of, and on a level with a clear brisk fire. Toast the pork upon a fork, slice by slice, holding it so that the gravy will drip upon the kidneys beneath. When the pork is done, lay it upon another hot plate, and set this in the place just occupied by the kidneys. Toast these in their turn, so tliat the gravy which falls from them shall drop upon the pork. Turn them frequently, and be careful not to lose a drop of the gravy from kidneys or pork. When the gravy ceases to flow the kidneys are done. Serve upon the toast on a hot dish ; cut the pork into strips, and lay along the sides of the dish. Pour the gravy over kidneys and toast. This latter should either be fried previously in butter, or be well buttered if toasted in the usual way. Pepper and salt just before sending to table, as salt hardens and toughens the kidneys. Kidneys Stewed with Wine. 3 kidneys. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1 onion, minced. I tablespoonful mush- room, or walnut catsup. 3 tablespoonfuls rich brown gravy. I glass of claret Pepper and salt to taste. Cut the kidneys into round slices. Heat the butter to a boil in a frjin^-pan, stir in the chopped onion, then lay in the slices of kidney, and fry two minutes. Have in another vessel the gravy, catsup and wine, ready heated. Take up the kidneys, draining from them every drop of fat, and transfer to this gravy. Cover closely, stew gently for five minutes, or until tender, and serve directly. Broiled Kidneys. 2 kidneys. Pepper and salt, and a 2 tablespoonfuls of melted little chopped parsley, butter. Skin the kidneys carefully, but do not slice or split them. Lay for ten minutes in warm (not hot) melted butter, rolling them over and over, that every part may be well basted. Broil on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning them every minute. They should be done in about twelve minutes, vrlcss very large. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and lay on a hot dish, with a bit of butter upon each. Coyer and send up immediately.