46 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. have in a breakfast-room if you like his shrill warbling. A pot of English ivy, brave and green, twisting over the face of the old clock, and festooning the windows, is a choice bit of brightness in the winter time. In summer, when flowers are cheap and plentiful, never set the table without them if you can get nothing more than a button-hole bouquet to lay on John’s napkin. Insist that the children shall make them- selves tidy before coming to the table, whatever may be the meal, even if they will meet nobody except yourself there. Teach them early that it is a disgrace to themselves and to you to eat with unclean hands and faces. Inculcate, further, the propriety of introducing, while at table, topics that wall interest and please all. Let w’rangling, fault-finding and recrimination be never so much as named among them. These are little things, but whatever detracts from the idea that the family repast is a tri-daily festival, and should be honored and enjoyed as such, is a wrong to those whose happiness it is your mission to guard and maintain. A wrong to health as to heart. Food swallowed in bitterness of spirit engenders dyspepsia and bile as surely as do acrid fruit and heavy bread. A sharp reprimand will take away sensitive Mamie’s appetite, and a frown between the eyes that, when serene, seem to John to mirror heaven itself, will beget in his bosom that indescribable sinking of heart we know as “ goneness,” which is yet not physical faintness. I have jotted down these hints under the heading of “Breakfast,” although most of them are applicable to all meals, because, as a rule, people bring less keenness of hunger to this than to any other. It is as if the longest fast that separates our stated time of eating from another were the hardest to break ; as if we had- got out of the habit of desiring and receiving food. It behooves us, then, as wise housewives, to make provision against mortifying rejection of our viands by various and artful devices to tempt the dull or coy appetite. Especially should we study to avoid same- ness in our breakfast bills of fare ; an easy thing to compass by a moderate exercise of foresight and ingenuity on the part of the housewife. The American breakfast should be a pleasing medium between the heavy cold beef and game pie of the English and the—for our climate and “fast” habits of life—too light morning refreshment of the French. That in order to accomplish these ends it is not necessary greatly to increase the market bills of the household, or the cares of the mis- tress, I have tried to prove in these pages, while I have not