Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. 240 Lemon Cream Candy. 0 6 pounds best white sugar. i teaspoonful of soda. Strained juice of 2 lemons. , Grated peel of i lemon. ^ ^ Steep the grated peel of the lemon in the juice for an hour; strain, squeezing the cloth hard to get out all the strength. Pour the water over the sugar, and, when nearly dissolved, set it over the fire and bring to a boil. Stew steadily until it hardens in cold water ; stir in the lemon ; boil one minute; add the dry soda, stirring in well ; and, instantly, turn out upon broad, shallow dishes. Pull, as soon as you can handle it, into long white ropes, and cut into lengths when brittle. Vanilla cream candy is made in the same way, with the substitution of vanilla flavoring for the lemon-juice and peel. These home-made candies furnish pleasant diversions for the children on winter evenings and rainy days, and are far more wholesome than those sold in the shops. Chocolate Caramels. I cup rich, sweet cream. I cup brown sugar. I cup white sugar. 7 tablespoonfuls vanilla chocolate. I tablespoonful corn- starch, stirred into the cream. I tablespoonful of butter. Vanilla flavoring. Soda, the size of a pea, stirred into cream. Boil all the ingredients except the chocolate and vanilla extract, half an hour, stirring to prevent burning. Re- serve half of the cream and wet up the chocolate in it, adding a very little water if necessary'. Draw the saucepan to the side of the range, and stir this in well; put back on the fire and boil ten minutes longer, quite fast, stirring con- stantly. When it makes a hard glossy coat on the spoon, it is done. Add the Vanilla after taking it from the range. Turn into shallqw dishes well buttered. When cold enough to retain the impression of the knife, cut into squares. Marbled Creaj 4 cups white sugar. I cup rich sweet cream. I cup water. I tablespoonful of butter. I tablespoonful vinegar. Boil all the ingredients exc Candy. {Good.) Bit of soda the size of a pea, stirred in cream. Vanilla extract. 3 tablespoonfuls of choco- late-grated. 4 half the cream, the choco-