Familiar Talk with the Reader. ?5 Receipts, No. i of the Common-Sense Series.” Still less is it intended as a substitute for it. 1 have carefully avoided the repetition, in this volume, of a single receipt which appeared in that. This is designed to be the second story in the edifice of domestic economy, the materials of which I have accumulated since the first was completed. As money makes money, and a snow-ball gathers snow, so receipts, new, valu- able, and curious, flowed in upon me after “No. i” was given to the world. Some of the earliest to reach me were so good that 1 began a fresh compilation by the time that book was fairly off the press. Let me say here what you may find useful in your own researches and collections. My best ally in the classification and preservation of the materials for this undertaking has been “The Household Treasury,” published by Claxton, Remsen & Haffelfinger, Philadelphia, and arranged by a lady of that city. It is a pretty volume of blank pages, a certain number of which are devoted to each department of cookery, beginning with soups, and running through the various kinds of sweets, pickles, etc. Each is introduced by a handsome vignette and appropriate motto, with a title at the top of every page. The paper is excellent and distinctly ruled. I wish I could put a copy into the hands of every housekeeper who believes in system of details, and develop- ment of her individual capabilities. It has so far simplified and lightened the task of preparing “ Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea” for my public, that I cannot withhold this recom- mendation of it to others. Yet if “ General Receipts” was written con amore, its suc- cessor has been, in a still higher degree, a work of love and delight. There were times during the preparation of the trial volume when 1 could not feel quite sure of my audience. There has not been a moment, since I began that which I now offer for your acceptance, in the which I have not been conscious of your full sympathy ; have not tasted, in antici- pation, your enjoyment of that which I have taken such pleasure in making ready. Do not think me sentimental when I ask that the cross and circle 0, marking, in a similar manner to the former work, such receipts as I have tested and proved for myself to be reliable, may be to you, dear friend and sister, like the footprint of a fellow-traveler along the humble but honorable pathway of every-day and practical life, bringing comfort and encouragement, even in the “ heated term."