146 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. I glass of best sherr>'. Rose water. I pint of cream, whipped. I pint of rich milk for custard. 4 eggs, whites and yolks separated. I tablespoonful corn- starch. I small cup sugar for cus- tard. A little powdered sugar for whipped cream. Vanilla flavoring for cus- tard. Put sponge-cakes at the bottom of a large glass dish ; wet with brandy, and cover thinly with jelly. Strew the minced fruits thickly upon this. Next come the macaroons. Wat with the wine and cover thickly with Jelly. Set the dish in a cool place while you prepare the custard. This will give the cakes time to soak up the liquor. Scald the milk; beat the yolks and sugar together, and make a paste of the blanched almonds by pounding them in a Wedgewood mortar (or, in a stout bowl with a potato beetle), adding rose-water as you go on to prevent oiling. Stir this paste into the hot milk, and, a minute later, the yolks and sugar. Cook, stirring constantly, for three minutes more, when put in the corn-starch, wet up with cold milk. Let all thicken well and smoothly; take from the fire, beat up to break possible lumps, and turn out to cool. Whip the cream, and sweeten to taste. Whisk the whites of the eggs stiff and mix thoroughly with the whipped cream. When the custard is perfectly cold, cover the cakes in the glass dish with it, and heap the cream on top. There is no better trifle than this. Apple Snow. {No. i.) 0 6 fine pippins. i pint of milk for cus- 2 cups powdered sugar. tard. I lemon—^juice and half 4 eggs, the grated peek Make a good custard of the milk, one cup of sugar and the yolks. Bake the apples, cores, skins, and all, in a covered dish with a little water in the bottom to prevent burning. The apples should be so tender that a straw will pierce them. Take off the skins and scrape out the pulp. Mix in the sugar and lemon. Whip the whites of the eggs light, and beat in the pulp by degrees until very white and firm. Put the custard, when cold, into the bottom of a glass bowl and pile the snow upon it.