i8 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. Fricasseed Eggs. 0 6 hard-boiled eggs. When cold, slice with a sharp knife, taking care not to break the yolk. I cup good broth, well sea- soned with pepper, salt, pars- ley and a suspicion of onion. .Some rounds stale bread, fried to a liglit-brown in but- ter or nice dripping. Put the broth on the fire in a saucepan with the seasoning and let it come to a boil. Rub the slices of egg with melted butter, then roll them in flour. Lay them gently in the' gp'avy, and let this become smoking hot upon the side of the range, but do not let it actually boil, lest the eggs should break. They should lie thus in the gravy for at least five minutes. Have ready, upon a platter, the fried bread. Lay the sliced egg evenly upon this, pour the gravy over all, and serve hot. Egg Cutlets. 3 tablespoonfuls butter or dripping. I cup broth or drawn but- ter, in which a raw egg has been beaten. 6 hard-boiled eggs. I raw egg well beaten. I handful very fine, dry bread-crumbs. Pepper and salt, and a little parsley minced fine. Cut the boiled eggs, when perfectly cold, into rather thick slices with a sharp, thin knife ; dip each slice into the beaten egg ; roll in the bread-crumbs which should be seasoned with pepper, salt and minced parsley. Fry them to a light brown in the butter or dripping, turning each piece as it is done on the under side. Do not let them lie in the frying-pan an instant after they are cooked. Drain free from fat before laying them on a hot dish. Pour the gravy, boiling hot, over the eggs, and send to table. Stirred Eggs. 0 6 eggs. which the cnist has been 3 tablespoonfuls of gravy pared, to cover the bottom —that made from poultry is of a flat dish, best. A very little anchovy paste. Enough fried toast, from i tablespoonful of butter. Melt the butter in a fr>ing-pan, and when hot, break into this the eggs. Stir in the gravy, pepper and saJt to taste, and continue to stir very quickly, and well up from the bottom, for about two minutes, or until the whole is a soft, yellow mass. Have ready in a flat dish the fried toast, spread thinly with anchovy paste.