Preserved Fruity Candies, etc. 241 late and vanilla, together very fast, until it is a thick, ropy syrup. Heat in a separate saucepan the reserved cream, into which you must have rubbed the grated chocolate. Let it stew until quite thick, and when the candy is done, add a cupful of it to this, stirring in well. Turn the uncolored syrup out upon broad dishes, and pour upon it, here and there, great spoonfuls of the choco- late mixture. Pull as soon as you can handle with comfort, and with the tips of your fingers only. If deftly manipulated, it will be streaked with white and brown. Chocolate Cream Drops. 1 cake vanilla chocolate. 3 cups of powdered sugar. I cup soft water. 2 tablespoonfuls corn- starch or arrowroot. 1 tablespoonful butter. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. Wash from the butter every grain of salt. Stir the sugar and water together ; mix in the corn-starch, and bring to a boil, stirring constantly to induce granulation. Boil about ten minutes, when add the butter. Take from the fire and beat as you would eggs, until it begins to look like granulated cream. Put in the vanilla ; butter your hands well, make the cream into balls about the size of a large marble, and lay upon a greased dish. Meanwhile, the chocolate should have been melted by putting it (grated fine) into a tin pail or saucepan and plunging it into another of boiling water. When it is a black syrup, add about two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar to it, beat smooth, turn out upon a hot dish, and roll the cream-balls in it until sufficiently coated. Lay upon a cold dish to dry, taking care that they do not touch one anothr. Sugar Candy. 0 6 cups of white sugar. 1 cup of butter. [gar. 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- ^ teaspoonful of soda. I cup cold water. Vanilla flavoring. Pour water and vinegar upon the sugar, and let them stand, without stirring, until the sugar is melted. Set over the fire and boil fast until it “ ropes.” Put in the butter ; boil hard two minutes longer, add the dry soda, stir it in and take at once from the fire. Flavor when it ceases to effervesce. Turn out upon greased dishes, and pull with the tips of your fingers until white.