Familiar Talk with the Reader. 7 to pass anything on the right side, and has an invincible objection to learning how ”—to the conclusion, over against which she has, like the frank woman she is, set her name and address in full. But the modesty (or miserliness) aforesaid rises in sudden arms to forbid the reproduction at my hand of certain por- tions of the epistle, and it would be neither kind or honorable to set down in prospective print her pictures of home life and dramatis persona. Steering clear, when possible, of these visible rocks and sunken reefs, I will indulge you and myself with a part of that which has added sensibly to my treasures—not debt—mind you ! of gratitude. “ I want to tell you how much your compilation does for those poor mortals whom it rescues from the usual class of cook-books.” A reef, you see, before we are out of harbor ! We will skip two pages to get at one of the well-said things I spoke of just now. “You speak of ‘companychina' and ‘company manners.’ I detest company anything! This longing for show and display is the curse and failing of Americans. I abhor the phrase ‘ Anything will do for us.’ I do not believe that a person can be true clear through and without affectations who can put on her politeness with her company china any more than a real lady can deliberately put on stockings with holes in them. I seriously think that, so far from its being self-sacrifice to put up with the meanest every day, and hospitality to use the best for company, it is a positive damage to one’s sense of moral fitness. I knew a woman once who used to surprise me with the deceptions in which she unconsciously and needlessly indulged. This ceased to be a surprise when I saw her wear a twenty-dollar hat and a pair of unmended hose, and not seem to know that it was not quite the proper thing.” Orthodox, you perceive, thus far, is our New England correspondent. Honest and outspoken in her hatred of shams and “ dodges ” of all kinds ; quick to see analogies and deduce conclusions. N ow comes the pith of the com- munication :— “ I wish you could set me right on one point that often perplexes me. Is housekeeping worth while t I do not despise the necessary work. On the contrary, I hold that anything well done is worth doing. But with the materials this country affords, can housekeeping be well done ? Is it worth while for a woman to neglect the talents she has, and B 2