79 Meats. Heat the butter to a boil in the frying-pan. Mix the eggs, milk, flour, parsley, pepper, and salt into a batter, and pour it into the frying-pan. Lay in the middle, as soon as it begins to “form,” the minced meat. Fry rather slowly, taking care that the batter does not burn. When done on one side fold the edges of the pancake over to the middle, enclosing the meat, and turn with a cake spatula. When both sides are of a delicate brown, put the cake “ turner ” under it, and slip over to a hot dish. Send around a little gravy in a boat Meat and Potato Puffs. 0 Enough potatoes and flour to make a good paste. Pepper, salt, and mustard, or catsup. Slices of cold roast beef or mutton, and as many of corned ham. 2 eggs. I cup milk. Mash the potatoes, mix them with the eggs, well beaten, and whip up to a cream, adding the milk gradually. Add flour enough to enable you to roll it out into a sheet. Cut into squares, and in the centre of each lay a slice of beef or mutton, well seasoned with pepper and salt, and spread with made mustard or catsup. Lay on this a slice of ham of the same shape and size ; fold the paste into a triangular “ turn- over,” printing the edges deeply with a jagging-iron, and fry in butter or beef-dripping to a nice brown. Take up so soon as they are done ; lay on white paper for a moment to absorb the grease, and serve hot. Scalloped Chicken. 0 Cold roast or boiled chicken—chiefly the white meat. I cup gravy. I tablespoonful butter, and I egg, well beaten. I cup of fine bread-crumbs. Pepper and salt. Rid the chicken of gristle and skin, and cut—not chop— into pieces less than half-an inch long. Have ready the gravy, or some rich drawn butter, in a saucepan on the fire. Thicken it well, and stir in the chicken, boil up once, take it off, and add the beaten egg. Cover the bottom of a buttered dish with fine bread-crumbs, pour in the mixture, and put another thick layer of crumbs on top, sticking bits of butter all over it. Bake to a delicate brown in a quick oven.