14 Breakfast, Ltnuheon and Tea. I quote it, partly that I may thank the author, principally that I may borrow the illustration. The heavenly airs that really temper the torrid heats of the kitchen are loving thoughts of those for whom the house-mother makes the home. There is a wealth of meaning in the homely old saying about “putting one’s name in the pot.” It is one thing, I submit to the advocates of co-operative housekeep- ing, whether big John’s and little John’s and Mamie’s and Susie’s and Tommy’s meals are prepared according to the prescriptions of a salaried chef, in the mammoth boilers, steamers and bakers of an “ establishment ” along with the sustenance of fifty other families, or whether the tender mother, in her “ order of the day,” remembers that while Papa likes smart, tingling dashes of cayenne, garlic, and curry, the baby-tongues of her brood would cry out at the same ; that Mamie has an aversion to a dish much liked by her brothers and sisters ; that Susie is delicate, and cannot digest the strong meat that is the gift of flesh and brains to the rest. So Papa gets his spiced ragout under a tiny cover —hot-and-hot—and the plainer “ stew,” which was its base, nourishes the bairns. Mamie is not forced to fast while the rest feast, and by pale Susie’s plate is set the savory “ sur- prise,” which is the visible expression of loving kindness, always wise and unforgetting. You remember the legend that tells how Elizabeth of Hungary, having'been forbidden by her lord to carry food to the poor, was met one day by him outside the castle walls, as she was bearing a lapful of meat and bread to her pen- sioners. Louis demanding sternly what she carried in her robe, she was obliged to show him the forbidden burden. “ Whereupon,” says the chronicler, “ the food was miracu- lously changed, for his eyes, to a lapful of roses, red-and- white, and, his mind disabused of suspicion, he graciously bade her pass on whithersoever she would.” I have bethought me many times of the legend when I have seen upon very modest tables such proofs of thought- ful recollection of the peculiar tastes and needs of the flock to which the home caterer ministered as made my heart warm and eyes fill, and threw, to my imagination, chaplets lovelier than Elizabeth’s roses around the platter and bowl. This is the true poetry of serving, and the loving appreciation of it is the reward, rich and all-sufficient, of thought, care, and toil. A few words more before we proceed, in due order, to business. This volume is not an amendment to “ General