136 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. with ice and rock salt for six hours; draining off the water and replenishing with ice and salt twice during the time. These are very refreshing in hot weather. Ribbon Jelly and Cream. 0 1 package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in 2 cups of cold water. 2 cups white sugar. I pint boiling water. Juice and half the grated rind of i lemon. I cup pale w’ine. \ teaspoonful cinnamon. Enough prepared cochi- neal or bright cranberry, or other fruit syrup to color half the jelly. I pint rich, sweet cream, whipped stiff w ith two table- spoonfuls powdered sugar, and a little vanilla. Soak the jelly four hours. Add to it the sugar and season- ing, including the lemon; pour in the boiling water, and stir until entirely dissolved. Strain through a flannel bag, after adding the wine. Do not touch it while it is dripping. Di- vide the jelly, and color half of it pink, as above directed. Wet a mould, with a cylinder through the centre, in cold w'ater, and put in the jelly, yellow and pink, in alternate layers, letting each get pretty firm before putting in the next, until all is used up. When you are ready to use it, wrap a hot wet cloth about the mould for a moment, and invert upon a dish. Have the cream whipped before you do this, and fill the open place in the middle with it, heaping it up well. You can vary the coloring by making white and yellow blanc-mange out of one-quarter of the gelatine after it is soaked. Instead of water, pour a large cup of boiling milk over this. When dissolved, sweeten and beat into half of it the yolk of an egg. Heat over the fire in a vessel of boiling water for five minutes to cook the egg, stirring all the time. A stripe of the white or yellow blanc-mange sets off the wider “ ribbons ” of pink and amber very tastefully. Or you may make the base of chocolate blanc-mange, by stirring a great spoonful of grated sweet chocolate into the gelatine and boiling milk. Easter Eggs. 1 package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked four hours in one pint cold water. 2 heaping cups sugar. {Verypretty.) 0 3 large cups boiling milk. 2 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate — sweet, vanilla- flavored, if you can get it.