Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. 24 Stir the corn-starch smoothly into the boiling water, and set it over the fire, stirring constantly until it thickens up well. Add pepper, salt, butter, and parsley; mix well together, put in the lemon-juice and catsup, lastly the roes, which should have been frequently turned in the melted butter. Set within a vessel of boiling water for about eight minutes, but do not let the roes and sauce boil fast Take them up, lay on a flat, hot dish ; add to the sauce the beaten yolks, stir fast and well over the fire for two minutes, pour over the roes, and serve. Should the receipt for so simple a dish seem needlessly prolix, I beg the reader to remember that I have made it minute to save her time and trouble. 3 large roes. I cup of drawn butter and yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. I teaspoonful anchovy paste or essence. Scalloped Roes. 0 I teaspoonful of parsley. Juice of half a lemon. I cup of bread-crumbs. Salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Boil the roes in water and vineear, as directed in former receipts ; lay in cold water five minutes, then wipe perfectly dry. Break them up with the back of a silver spoon, or in a Wedgewood mortar, but not so fine as to crush the eggs. When ready, they should be a granulated heap. Set aside while you pound the hard boiled eggs to a powder. Beat this into the drawn butter, then the pars’ev and other season- ing ; lastly, mix in, more lighly, the roes. Strew the bottom of a buttered dish with bread-crumbs, put in the mixture, spread evenh', and cover with very fine crumbs. Stick bits of butter thickly over the top, cover and bake in a quick oven, until bubbling hot. Brown, uncovered, on the upper grating of the oven. Fish-Balls. 0 2 cupfuls cold boiled cod —fresh or salted. I cupful mashed potato, i cup drawn butter, with an egg beaten in. Season to taste. Chop the fish when you have freed it of bones and skin. Work in the potato, and moisten with the drawn butter until it is soft enough to mould, and w’ill yet keep in shape. Roll the balls in flour, and fry quickly to a golden bro%vn in lard, or clean dripping. Take from the fat so soon as they are done ; lay in a cullender or sieve and shake gently, to free them from every drop of grease. Turn out for a moment on white paper to absorb .any lingering drops, and send up on a hot dish.