Sweetbreads. 59 customer, there is seldom much difficulty in procuring enough to make a dish for a family of ordinary size. Keep sweetbreads in a cold, dry place, and cook as soon as possible after getting them, as they soon spoil. Be careful^ moreover, in cooking them, to see that they arc thoroughly done. Brown Fricassee of Sweetbreads. (No. i.) 0 4 sweetbreads. 2 cups brown veal gravy, strong and well seasoned. 4 tablespoonfuls of butter. Pinch of mace, and twice as much cloves. Browned flour for thick- ening. I teaspoonful chopped onion, stewed in, and then strained out of the grav)^ Wash the sweetbreads carefully in warm water, removing every bit of skin and gristle. Lay them in a saucepan, and cover with boiling water. Boil them ten minntes hard, turn off the hot water, and plunge them instantly into very cold, in which you have dissolved a little salt. Leave them in this about fifteen minutes, or until they are cool, white and firm. Cut each crosswise into slices nearly half an inch thick. Have ready the butter in the frying-pan, and fry the slices, turning frequently, until they are a good brown, but no not dry them up Drain off the fat through a cullender, lay the sliced sweetbreads within a saucepan, pour the hot brown gravy, already seasoned, over them, cover closely, and simmer, not boil, fifteen minutes longer. Brown Fricassee. (No. 2.) 0 4 sweetbreads. 2 cups good brown gravy —veal is best. Spice with mace and cloves. I onion, i cup butter. I pint mushrooms. Prepare the sweetbreads by boiling and blanching as in previous receipt. Slice the onion and mushrooms, and fry quickly to a fine brown in half the butter. Strain the fat from these, and return it to the frying-pan, adding the rest of the butter. When hissing hot, put in the sliced sweet- breads. Turn over and over in the fat for three minutes. Meanwhile, let the fried onions and mushrooms be stewing in the gravy. Pour this gravy, when the sweetbreads are ready, into a jar or tin pail with a closely-fitting top ; set it in a pot of boiling water, taking care there is not enough to bubble over the top, put in the sliced sweetbreads, cover,