39 Shell-Fish. If the ham be raw, soak in boiling water for half an hour 1 before cutting it into very small slices, and putting it into ithe saucepan with the broth, the oyster liquor, the onion I minced very fine, the herbs and pepper. Let these simmer I for fifteen minutes, and boil fast for five, then skim and put 1 in the oysters. Boil up once briskly, keeping the contents ^ of the saucepan well stirred. Have ready the com-starch, ; rubbed smoothly into the milk. Stir this in and heat care- ! fully, using the spoon constantly until it boils and begins to ! thicken, when the butter should go in. So soon as this is : melted take out the oysters with a skimmer ; put into a hot covered dish, heat the broth again to a boil, remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in cautiously the beaten egg. A better way is to cook the latter gradually by beating in with it a few tablespoonfuls of the scalding liquor, before putting the egg into the saucepan. Turn the gravy over the oysters, and serve at once. Squeeze in the lemon-juice after the tureen is on the table, as it is apt to curdle the mixture if left to stand. Send around cream crackers, and green pickles or olives with this savory dish. Oysters Boiled in the Shell. Large shell-oysters,washed very clean and scraped, but not opened. Pot of boiling water over a hot fire. Sauce of melted butter with chopped or powdered parsley. A lemon, cut in half. Put the oysters, one by one, quickly and carefully into the water, which must be kept at a hard boil all the time. In five minutes, turn off every drop of the water by inverting the pot over a cullender, dry the shells rapidly with a soft i cloth and send to table upon a hot dish. Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice upon each oyster, and put a little hot melted butter with pepper over it before eating it from the shell. The epicurean oyster-lover may consider boiled oysters insipid, but they are liked by many. Scalloped Oysters (No. i). 0 Minced parsley, and salt. Lemon-juice. Large, fine shell-oysters. Butter. Fine bread-crumbs, or rolled cracker. pepper D a