97 Salads. them aside in separate vessels, in a cold place while you prepare the dressing. Beat the eggs light (with a “ Dover” egg-beater, if you have one), mix in the sugar; then whip in gradually the oil until it is a light cream. Have ready, rubbed to a powder, the boiled yolks ; add to them the salt, pepper, and lastly the mustard. Beat these into the oil and yolk, and then, two or three drops at a time, the vinegar, whipping the dressing' briskly, but lightly for two or three minutes. It should, if properly managed, be like rich yellow cream—or custard. With a silver fork toss up the oysters and celery together in a glass dish ; pour half of the dressing over them ; toss up —not stir it down—for a minute, and pour the rest on the top. Lay a border of light-green celery tufts close within the edge of the bowl, with a cluster in the middle of the salad. Serve as soon as may be, after it is mixed. Meanwhile, keep on the ice. white i^Very Good!) 0 2 eggs, well beaten. I tablespoonful sugar. I teaspoonful essence of celery. Pepper and salt to taste. Cabbage Salad. I small firm head of cab- bage—chopped or sliced fine. I cup of sweet milk, boil- ing hot. A little less than a cup of vinegar. I tablespoonful butter. Heat the milk and vinegar in separate vessels. When the vinegar boils, put in the butter, sugar and seasoning. Boil up once and stir in the chopped cabbage. Heat to scalding, but do not let it actually boil. To the hot milk add the eggs ; cook one minute after they begin to thicken. Turn the scalding cabbage into a deep bowl; pour the custard over it, stir in quickly, tossing up the mixture with a silver fork, until the ingredients are thoroughly incorpo- rated ; cover to keep in the strength of the vinegar, and set where it will cool suddenly. Serve perfectly cold, and garnish with some slices of cold boiled eggs and cresses. This will be found a vast improvement upon the old- fashioned “ coldslaw,” however prepared, and is more whole- some. Lobster Salad—without Oil. 0 I fine lobster—boiled thoroughly, and carefully picked out. Cut into small pieces; put in a broad dish, and