Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. 66 HASTE OR WASTE? “ Ah ! you forget my sedan-chair,” said Madame de Stael, when, at the height of her social and literary fame, some one wondered how she found time for writing amid her many and engrossing engagements. The sedan-chair was the fashionable conveyance for ladies at that day, in their round of daily calls or evening festivi- ties; and the brilliant Frenchwoman secured within its closed curtains the solitude and silence she needed for composition. An American authoress who wrote much and with great care—never sending her brain-bantlings into the world en dishabille —replied to a similar question, “ My happiest thoughts come to me while I am mixing cake. My most serious study-hours are those devoted apparently to darning the family stockings.” I entered a street-car, not many days ago, and sat do\vn beside a gentleman who did not lift his eyes from a book he was reading, or show, by any token, his consciousness of others’ presence. A side-glance at the volume told me it was Fronde’s “ History of England,” and I cheerfully for- gave his inattention to myself. The conductor notified him when he reached his stopping-place, and, with a readiness that betrayed admirable mental training, he came out of the w'orld through which the fascinating historian was leading him, pocketed his book, recognized me with a pleasant word, and stepped to the pavement in front of his store, the thorough business man. “ That is an affected prig,” said a fellow-passenger, by the time the other had left the car. “ He and I take this ride in company every morning and afternoon. It takes him half an hour to go from his house to his store ; and, instead of amusing himself with his newspaper, as the rest of us do, he always has some heavy-looking book along—biography, or history, or a scientific treatise. He begins to read by the time he is seated, and never leaves off until he gets out. It is in wretched taste, such a show of pedantic industry.” After this growl of disapprobation the speaker buried