Cakes. 209 Cream butter and sugar; add the yolks, the whites and flour by turns, the orange, and lastly, the citron, dredged with flour. Beat all up hard, and bake in two loaves. Rich Almond Cake. 0 4 cups prepared flour. 2 cups powdered sugar. 1 cup of butter. 10 eggs whipped light, the yolks strained. ^ pound sweet almonds, blanched and pounded. I tablespoonful orange- flower water. Nutmeg. Beat butter and sugar ten minutes until they are like whipped cream; add the strained yolks, the whites and flour alternately with one another, then the almond paste in which the orange-flower water has been mixed as it was pounded, and the nutmeg. Beat well and bake as “ snow balls,” in small round, rather deep pans, with straight sides. They will require some time to bake. Cover with almond icing. A Charlotte a la Parisienne. 0 I large stale sponge-cake. I cup rich sweet custard. 1 cup sweet cream, whip- ped. 2 tablespoonfuls rose- water. i grated cocoanut. i pound sweet almonds, blanched and pounded. Whites of 4 eggs, whipped stiff. 3 tablespoonfuls pow’dered sugar. Cut the cake in horizontal slices the whole breadth of the loaf. They should be about half an inch thick. Divide the whipped eggs into two portions ; into one stir the cocoanut with half the sugar ; into the other the almond paste with the rest of the sugar. Spread the slices with these mixtures, —half w'ith the cocoanut, half with almond, and replace them in their original form, laying aside the top-crust for a lid. Press all the sliced cake firmly together, that the slices may not slip, and with a sharp knife cut a deep cut out of the centre down to the bottom slice, which must be left entire. Take out the rounds you have cut, leaving walls an inch thick, and soak the part removed in a bowl with the custard. Rub it to a smooth batter, and whip it into the frothed cream. The rose-water in the almond paste will flavor it sufficiently. When it is a stiff rich cream, fill the cavity of the cake with it, put on the lid, and ice with the following :