Fancy Dishes for Dessert. 137 2 eggs, the yolks only. A little prepared cochineal, or bright-red syrup. Empty shells of 12 eggs, from which the contents have been drained through a hole in the small end. Essence bitter - almond, grated lemon-peel, and rose- water for flavoring. Put sugar and soaked gelatine into a bowl, and pour the boiling milk over them. ■ Set over the fire in a farina-kettle, and stir until dissolved. Strain and divide into four parts. Leave one white; stir into another the beaten yolks; into a third the chocolate; into the fourth the pink or scarlet coloring. Season the chocolate with vanilla; the yellow with lemon; the white with rose-water; the red with bitter- almond. Heat the yellow over the fire long enough to cook the egg. Rinse out your egg-shells with cold water, and fill with the various mixtures, three shells of each. Set upright in a pan of meal or flour to keep them steady, and leave until next day. Then fill a glass bowl more than three- quarters full, with nice wine-jelly, broken into sparkling fragments. Break away the egg-shells, bit by bit, from the blanc-mange. If the insides of the shells have been pro- perly rinsed and left wet, there will be no trouble about this. Pile the vari-colored eggs ” upon the bed of jelly, lay shred preserved orange-peel, or very finely shred candied citron about them, and surprise the children with them as an Easter-day dessert. It is well to make this the day on which you bake cake, as the contents of the egg-shells will not then be wasted. By emptying them carefully, you can keep the whites and yolks separate. This dish, which I invented to please my own little ones on the blessed Easter-day, is always welcomed by them with such delight, that I cannot refrain from recommending its manufacture to other mothers. It is by no means diffi- cult or expensive. If you can get green spinach, you can have yet another color by using the juice. Turret I pint sweet, rich cream. I quart milk. I package Co.xe’s gelatine. 1 heaping cup white sugar. 3 eggs, beaten light — whites and yolks separately. Soak the gelatine in a cup Cream. 0 i pound crystallized fruit —cherries and peaches, or apricots. Vanilla flavoring. Juice of one lemon, of the milk four hours. Scald