222 Breakfast, Lximheon and Tea. TEA. The evening meal, call it by whatever name we may, is apt to be the most social one of the three which are the rule in this land. The pressure of the business allotted to the hours of daylight is over. The memory and the conversation of each one who comes to the feast, are richer by the history of another day. It is sometimes hard to “make talk" for the breakfast table. The talk of the 6 o’clock P.M. dinner, or supper, or tea, makes itself. I frankly own that, however much may be said in favor, on hygienic grounds, of early meals for the nursery, the mid-day dinner for adults has always worn for me a grim, and certainly an unpoetical aspect. The “nooning” should, for the worker with muscles, nerves, or brains, be a light repast and easily digested, followed by real physical rest. He is weary when he comes to it; he eats in haste, his mind intent upon the afternoon’s work, and he may not tarry when it is dispatched, having already “lost” an hour in discussing (or boltii^) soup, salad, fish, meat and dessert. The weight of undi- gested food seems, during the succeeding hours of business or study, to shift its position and clog and heat the brain. “ I will not preach to roast beef and plum-pudding ! ” said America’s greatest preacher, in refusing to hold a Sabbath afternoon service. People quoted the bon mot approvingly. Few had com- mon sense enough to apply it to week-day occupations. If men and women would rest, after an early dinner on Mon- day, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, as long and absolutely as they do on Sabbath afternoons, there would be less money made, perhaps, but fewer stomachs destroyed, and fewer intellects overstrained. This, however, as Paul candidly remarks touching certain of his deliverances—' I say of mine own judgment.” And, after all, I should be the sorriest of the sorry to see the tp- table swept out of American households. While I vTite, there come stealing back to me recollections that tempt me to draw my pen through some lines I have just set down. Late dinners and late suppers used to be the fashion, seldom