199 Cakes. adding three tablespocnfuls of sugar. Stir into the second portion of custard ; heat to a slow boil; take it off and set by to cool. Chop the crystallized fruit very small, and put with the third cupful of custard. Heat to a boil ; pour out and let it cool. Season the chocolate custard with vanilla; the almond and citron with bitter almond. The fruit will require no other flavoring. When quite cold, lay out four cakes made according to receipt given here, or bake at the same time a white cake in jelly-cake tins, and alternate with that. This will give you two good loaves. Put the chocolate filling between the first and second cakes ; next, the almond and citron ; the fruit custard next to the top. There will be enough for both loaves. Ice the tops with lemon icing, made of the whites of the eggs whisked very stiff with powdered sugar, and flavored with lemon-juice. Lest the reader should, at a casual glance through this receipt, be appalled at the length and the number of in- gredients, let me say that I have made the “ polonaise ” frequently at the cost of little more time and trouble than is required for an ordinary cream or chocolate cake. I would rather make three such, than one loaf of rich fruit-cake. A Charlotte Cachee Cake. 1 thick loaf of sponge, or other plain cake. 2 kinds of jelly—tart and sweet. W'hisked whites of 5 eggs. I heaping cup powdered sugar—or enough to make stiff icing. Juice of I lemon whipped into the icing. Cut the cake horizontally into five or six slices of uniform width. .Spread each slice with jelly—first the tart, then the sweet, and fit them into their former places. Ice thickly all over, so as to leave no sign of the slices ; set in a slow oven for a few minutes to harden ; then, in a sunny window. This is an easy way of making a showy cake out of a plain one. Fanny's Cake. 0 pound powdered su- HeckePs I gar. I pound flour- “ prepared.” i pound butter rubbed to a cream with the sugar. 8 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. I coffee - cupful sweet almonds—blanched. Extract of bitter almond and rose-water. O 2