43 BREAKFAST. He was a shrewd Coelebs who restrained his loverly im- patience to throw himself, in unconditional surrender, at the feet of his beloved, by the resolution to see her first at the breakfast-table. It is to be regretted that his admiring biographer has not recorded the result of the experiment. Let us hope, for the sake of preserving the “ unities of the drama,” that Cecilia was “ in good form ” on the momentous occasion ; not a thread ironed awry in bib or tucker ; not a rebellious hair in her sleek locks. Coelebs—Hannah More’s Coelebs—and every other that I ever read or heard of, was a pragmatical prig; the complacent proprietor of a patent refrigerator, very commodious and in excellent repair, but which ought never, even by his conceited self, to have been mistaken for a heart. Knowing you, my reader, as I do, I would not insult your good sense by intimating that the husband of your choice resembles him in any leading trait. Being a sensible (and avowedly a fallible) man, therefore, John does not expect you to appear at the breakfast-table in the flowing robes and elaborate laces that belong to the leisure hours of the day. If he does, he should don dress-coat and white cravat to keep you in countenance. He will not find fault with a neat peignoir (if it be neat), or a plainly-trimmed dress, or a white apron before the same. He ought to look for, and to see a clean collar put on straight and fastened snugly at the throat, or a white ruffle and cuffs, or wrist-ruffles, to corre- spond, and hair in irreproachable order. I have seen women who called themselves ladies, who could never find time to give their hair what they called “a good combing,” until afternoon. And time and patience would fail me, and I fear the equanimity of your diaphragm as well, were I to at- tempt even a partial recapitulation of the many and disgustful varieties of morning toilettes, of which I have been the unwilling spectator. You should hear my John,— whose profession takes him into what the renowned Ann Gale styles the “ buzzom of families,” at all sorts of uncon- ventional hours,—dilate upon this theme. Not invalid