75 Meats. the sliced onion, butter, sweet herbs and spice. Put in the liver and fry to a good brown. Turn all into a saucepan, add the vinegar and just enough water to cover the liver. Cover closely, and simmer slowly an hour and a half. Take out the liver and lay on a hot dish, add the wine and sauce to the gravy, thicken with browned flour ; let it boil up once, pour about the liver, and send up the surplus in a boat. This is good cold as well as hot, cut in thin slices. Ragout of Calf’s Head, or Imitation Turtle. 0 Half of a cold boiled calf’s head. I cup good gravy. 4 hard-boiled eggs. About a dozen force-meat balls made of minced veal with bread-crumbs and bound with beaten egg, then rolled in flour. I teaspoonful sweet herbs, chopped fine. A very little minced onion. Browned flour for thicken- ing ; pepper and salt for seasoning. I glass brown sherry. Cut the meat of the calfs head evenly into slices of uniform size. Heat the gravy almost to a boil, with the seasoning, herbs and onion. Put in the meat, simmer, closely covered, for fifteen minutes ; add the force-meat balls, wine and the eggs sliced. Let all become smoking hot; take up the meat; pile neatly on a hot dish, lay the eggs on it; the force-meat balls at the base of the heap, and pour a cupful of gravy over all, sending up the rest in a boat. This ragout is very nice, and easily provided for by set- ting aside enough meat for it, on the day you have calfs head soup, if the head be large. It is also a cheap dish, as even a large head seldom costs more than a dollar, and half will make a good ragout. Ragout of Calf’s Head and Mushrooms. 0 Half a cold boiled calf’s head, sliced and free from bones, also the tongue cut in round slices. I can French mushrooms {fhampignons). I onion sliced. I cup strong gravy—beef, veal, game or fowl. Season with pepper, salt and sweet herbs. Browned flour for thicken- ing. ji teaspoonful mixed all- spice and mace. Juice of a lemon. I glass wine—claret or sherry. 3 tablespoonfiils butter for frying, unless you have very nice dripping.