76 Breakfasty Luncheon and Tea. Drain the liquor from the mushrooms and slice them. Fry the slices of meat five minutes in the hot butter or diipping. Take them out and put into a tin pail or inner compartment of a farina kettle. Pour warm, not boiling, water into the outer vessel, cover the inner and set over the fire while you fry the mushrooms, then the onion, in the fat left in the frying-pan. Drain them and lay upon the meat in the inner saucepan. Have ready in another the broth, spiced and seasoned, and now pour this hot upon the meat and mushrooms. Cover closely and simmer for fifteen minutes. Strain off the grav'y into a saucepan, thicken ; let it boil up once ; add wine and lemon-juice, and when it is again smoking hot, pour over the meat and mushrooms in a deep dish. Some strips of fried toast are an acceptable addition to this ragout. These should be laid on the heap of meat. I have also varied it satisfactorily, by putting in sliced hard-boiled eggs. It is a good entrde at dinner, and a capital luncheon or breakfast-dish. A cold boiled calf’s head freed from bones a: ;ut into tliin slices—or so much of it as you need for your mould. 6 hard-boiled eggs—also sliced. Five or six slices of cold boiled ham—corned is better than smoked. I large cupful of the liquor in which the head was boiled, stewed down to a rich gravy and well seasoned with pepper, salt, mace and minced onion. Strain before using. Line the bottom of a buttered mould with the slices of egg also buttered on the outer side, that they may easily leave the mould. Salt and pepper them, then fill the mould with alternate layers of sliced calPs head, ham, sliced eggs, seasoning, etc., pouring in the gravy last. If you have no top for the mould, make a stiff paste of flour and water to close it in and preserve flavor and juices. When done, set it, still covered, in a cool place. When cold and firm, slice for luncheon or tea. You can chop both kinds of meat fine, also the eggs, and pack in successive layers within your mould. A little lemon-juice and minced parsley, with a touch of catsup, will improve the gravy. A Mould of Calf’s Head. 0