Fish. 23 ithe boiled eggs. Cut the white into thin rings. Put a layer oof mashed potato at the bottom of a buttered deep dish— :ithen, alternate layers of fish, drawn butter (with the rings of white embedded in this), roe,—more potato at top. Cover ;Jhe dish and set in a moderate oven until it smokes and cbubbles. Brown by removing the cover for a few minutes. oScnd to table in the baking-dish, and pass pickles with it. Fried Roes of Cod or Shad. 0 2 or three roes. If large, :cut them in two. I pint of boiling water. I tablespoonful of vinegar. Salt and pepper. I raw egg, well beaten. ^ cup fine bread-crumbs. 3 tablespoonfuls sweet lard, or dripping. Wash the roes and dry with a soft, clean cloth. Have ready the boiling water in which should be put the vinegar, »alt, and pepper. Boil the roes in this for ten minutes, then blunge at once into very cold water, slightly salted. Wipe idry again ; when they have lain about two minutes in this, oil in the beaten egg, then the bread-crumbs, and fry to a one brown in the fat Sauce for the above, I cup drawn butter, into which beat a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, juice of half a lemon, and a pinch of cayenne epper, with a little minced parsley. Boil up once, and send •jound in a gravy-boat. Roes of Cod or Shad Stewed. Wash the roes, and parboil in water with a little vinegar, »»epper, and salt added. It should be at a hard boil when ‘ he roes go in. Boil five minutes, lay in very cold water for wo, wipe, and transfer to a clean saucepan, with enough I lelted butter to half cover them. Set it in a vessel of oiling water, cover closely, and let it stew gently ten minutes, should it boil too fast the roes will shrink and toughen. While they are stewing prepare the— Sauce. I teaspoonful anchoN’y sauce, or good catsup. 1 cup of boiling water. 2 teaspoonfuls corn-starch, r rice flour, mixed in cold '3 ter. I tablespoonful of butter, j I teaspoonful chopped jatsley. Juice of half a lemon. Beaten yolks of two eggs. Salt and cayenne pepper. C 2 !