37 Fish. I moisten these with cream, and pour in the lobster mixture while still very hot. Put another layer of bread-crumbs, well moistened w'ith the remainder of the cream, on the top. Stick bits of butter all over it, and brown on the upper ; grating of a hot oven. In either of these preparations of scalloped lobster, should the canned lobster be used, or should you chance to break the shell in getting out the meat, you may bake the mixture prepared, as directed, in a pudding-dish or small pdt£ pans. Crabs Are so near of kin to the lobster family that the same receipts may easily be used for both. Only, bear in mind that the lesser and tougher shell-fish needs more boiling than does the aristocratic lobster. If underdone, crabs are very unwholesome. Also, in consideration of the crab’s deficiency in the matter of the coral which lends lusciousness and color to lobster salads and stews, use more butter and cream in “ getting him up ” for the table. Cayenne pepper is regarded by many as necessary in dishes of lobster or crab, because of its supposed efficacy in preventing the evil effects which might otherwise follow indulgence in these delicacies. Soft Crabs. For a receipt for preparing these, please see “ Common Sense in the Household, No. i,” page 71. Turtle 3 pounds turtle steak I large cup strong ^avy. 4 hard-boiled eggs—the yolks only. 1 teaspoonful sauce. I teaspoonful sauce. Cut the steak Fricassee. 0 Juice of half a lemon. 2 dozen mushrooms. I small onion, minced fine. I bunch sweet herbs, minced. I glass wine, and butter for frying. Browned flour for thicken- ing, with cayenne and salt. strips as wide and as long as three of your fingers ; fry brown (when you have floured them) in butter. Take up ; drain off the grease ; put with the gravy which should be ready heated, into a tin vessel with a close cover and set in a pot of hot water. It must not boil until you have put in the rest of the ingredients. Slice the onion and mushrooms, and fry in the same butter ; add with D veal anchovy Harvey’s m