40 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. Open the shells, setting aside for use the deepest ones. Have ready some melted butter, not hot, seasoned with minced parsley and pepper. Roll each oyster in this, letting it drip as little as may be, and lay in the shells, which should be arranged in a baking-pan. Add to each a little lemon-juice, sift bread crumbs over it, and bake in a quick oven until done. Serve in the shells. Scalloped Oysters (No. 2), 0 I quart of oysters. 1 teacupful very dry bread- crumbs, or pounded cracker. 2 great spoonfuls butter. ■J- cup of milk, or cream, if you can get it. Pepper to taste. A little salt. Cover the bottom of a baking-dish (well buttered) with a layer of crumbs, and wet these with the cream, put on spoonful by spoonful. Pepper and salt, and strew with minute bits of butter. Next, put in the oysters, with a little of their liquor. Pepper them, stick bits of butter in among them, and cover with dry crumbs until the oysters are entirely hidden. More pieces of butter, very small, and arranged thickly on top. Set in the oven, invert a plate over it to keep in the flavor, and bake until the juice bubbles up to the top. Remove the cover, and brown on the upper grating for two or three minutes—certainly not longer. Send to table in the bake-dish. This is a good intermediate course between fish and meat, and is always popular. Broiled Oysters. 0 1 quart of the finest, fimest oysters you can procure. i cup very dry bread-crumbs, or pounded crackers, sifted almost as fine as flour. Pepper to taste. ^ cup melted butter. Dry the oysters by laying them on a clean cloth and covering them with another. Dip each in the melted butter, which should be peppered, roll over and over in the cracker- crumbs, and broil upon one of the w’ire gridirons, made for this purpose, over a clear fire. These wire “ broilers ” hold the oysters firmly, and can be safely turned when one side is done. Five or six minutes should cook them. Butter and pepper a hot dish, lay in oysters, and serve imme- diately,