53 Croquettes. ‘Spirit and vigor which we call Life—spontaneous vitality, iIndifferent fuel—green or sodden wood, or slaty coal—may Ixeep a fire from going out. There is not begotten from ti:hese the leaping flame that gladdens, while it warms. And ccold meat and bread, dried into sawdusty innutrition, should p.'io more form the staple of John’s meals, even three times a week, than his grate be filled on December nights, with cokc- iiust and mica. Chicken Croquettes. 0 Minced chicken. About one-quarter as much ’line bread-crumbs as you hnave meat. I egg, beaten light, to teach cupful of minced-meat. Gravy enough to moisten :che crumbs and chicken. Or, if you have no gravy, a little drawn butter. Pepper and salt, and chopped parsley to taste. Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed fine with the back of a silver spoon, added to the meat. Mix up into a paste, with as little handling as may be. >Nor must the paste be too wet to mould readily. Make, with floured hands, into rolls, or ovate balls, roll in flour until well coated, and fry, a few at a time, lest crowding should innjure the shape, in nice dripping, or a mixture, half lard and hhalf butter. As you take them out, lay in a hot cullender, dhat every drop of fat may be drained off. Serve in a heated ddish, and garnish with cresses or parsley. Turkey, duck, and veal croquettes may be made in the ssame manner. They are even nicer if dipped in egg and rcracker-crumbs before frying. Beef Croquettes. 0 M inced cold roast or boiled flbeef. One-quarter as much po- ttato. Gravy enough to moisten .meat and potato, in which an onion has been stewed Mash the potatoes, while Season and strained out. also with catsup. Pepper and salt to taste, and a pinch of marjoram. Beaten egg to bind the whole, and one or two more beaten in a separate bowl. Powdered cracker-crumbs, hot, very smooth, or, if cold imashed potato be used, be careful that no lumps remain in it. Mix in the meat, gravy, and one raw egg, season, and :form into the desired shape. Dip each croquette in beaten •-egg, then roll in the cracker-crumbs, and fry quickly to a light brown. Drain carefully, and lay upon a hot dish. £