140 Breakfast, Lumhcon and Tea. fit the bottom of the mould, and only lining the sides of the latter. The Charlotte will turn out as well without the top (or bottom), and you can have it frosted and ornamented by the time you empty the mould. Lay it carefully on the top of the gelatine. Narcissus Blanc-Mange. I quart milk. Less than a pint rich cream, whipped with a little powdered sugar. 1 package Cooper’s gela- tine, soaked in two cups of cold water. Yolks of four eggs, beaten light. 2 cups white sugar. Vanilla and rose-water for flavoring. Heat the milk scalding hot, stir in the gelatine and sugar. When all are dissolved, beat in the yolks, and heat until they are cooked. Two minutes, after the custard becomes scald- ing hot, should suffice. Turn out in a broad dish to cool. When it stiffens around the edges, transfer it, a few spoonfuls at a time, to a bowl, and whip vigorously with your egg- beater. Flavor with rose-water. It should be like a yellow sponge before you put it into the mould. This should be an open one, i.e., with a cylinder in the centre. Rinse with cold water, and fill with the blanc-mange. It is best made the day before it is to be used. After turning it out upon a dish, fill the hollowed centre with whipped cream, flavored with vanilla and heap up as high as it will stand. Pile more whipped cream about the base. This dessert is named for the pretty yellow and white flower which came, with the earliest days of spring, to the old-fashioned gardens. Tipsy Trifle. 0 I quart milk. 5 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. I stale sponge cake, i pound macaroons. I cup sugar. Vanilla, or bitter almond for flavoring. I cup sherr>’ wine, and I cup jelly or jam. Make a custard of the milk, sugar, and yolks, adding the latter when the milk almost boils, and stirring constantly until it begins to thicken. Flavor when cold. Slice your cake and line the bottom of a glass dish with it. Wet with the wine, and cover with jam or jelly. A layer of macaroons over this must also be wet with sherry. Another layer of