144 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. When the milk boils, put in the froth, a tablespoonful at a time, turning each little heap as it is cooked on the lower side. Have only a few spoonfuls in at once, or they will run together. Take out the cooked froth carefully with a skimmer and lay on a sieve. When all are done, set in a cool place, while you make a custard of the yolks beaten up with the sugar and the boiling milk. Stir until it begins to thicken, and pour out to cool. Flavor when cold ; fill a glass bowl with the custard and pile the “rocks” on the surface. A pretty variation of floating island. Serve with sponge- cake. An Ambushed Trifle. 0 A round stale sponge-cake. I pint milk. I teaspoonful corn-starch. I cup sweet jelly or jam. Crab-apple jelly is very nice. 3 eggs beaten light. A pinch of salt. Vanilla, lemon, or bitter almond flavoring. 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Cut the top from the cake in one piece and lay it aside. Scoop out the inside of the cake, leaving side-walls and a bottom about an inch thick. Coat these well with the jelly. Scald the milk ; beat the eggs with the sugar, and stir into this when it is almost boiling. Crumb the cake you have scooped out very finely, and beat into the hot custard. Return to the fire and cook, stirring all the while until thick and smooth, when add the com-starch, previously wet with cold milk. Cook a minute longer and take from the fire. When nearly cold, flavor and fill the cake with it. Cover the inside of the lid you have laid aside with jelly, fit neatly into its place ; brush the whole cake w’ith white of egg, sift powdered sugar thickly over it, and set in a cool, dry place until wanted. A simple, delightful dessert. Orange Trifle. 0 I pint cream, whipped stiff. 3 eggs—yolks only. I cup of powdered sugar. ^ package Coxe’s gela- tine, soaked in a cup of cold water. J nice of 2 sweet oranges. Grated rind of i orange. I cup boiling water. Stir the soaked gelatine in the boiling water. Mix the juice, rind and sugar together, and pour the hot liquid over