Familiar Talk with the Reader. 9 drilling one generation after another in the details that are the tedious forging of the wards of the key of knowledge; —the rudiments of “ the three R’s," which, laugh or groan as we may, must be committed to memories more or less reluctant. They were never, I am sure, “ learned by heart.” 11 is well, so far as they are concerned, that the old phrase has gone out of fashion. We read the like tale of ever- renewed endeavor in the bent brows and whitening locks of brain-toilers, the world over. Nature were a false teacher were this otherwise. Birth, maturity, death; first, the blade then the ear, and, after the full com in the ear, ripening and destruction for the good of man or beast, or decay in the earth that resurrection may come to the buried seed. Seed- time and hardest, summer and winter,—none of these are “finished things.” GOD hold our eyes from seeing many things that are ! A life, the major part of which is spent in sweeping, that the dust may re-settle; in washing, that clothes may be again worn and soiled ; in cooking, that the food prepared may be consumed ; in cleansing plates and dishes, to put back upon the table that they may return, in grease and stickiness, to the hardly-dried pan and towel, does seem to the superficial spectator, ignoble even for the wife of a struggling mechanic or ill-paid clerk. But I insist that the fault is not that Providence has made her a woman, but that Providence has made and kept her poor. Pier husband at his bench, or, rounding his shoulders over his ledger, has as valid cause of complaint of never done work. Is there any reason why he should stand more patiently in his lot, waiting to see what God the Lord will do, than she ? But—“ Is it worth while for a woman to neglect the talents she has, and can use to her own and her friends’ advantage, in order to have a perfectly-appointed house, etc ? ” Certain visions that stir me to reverential admiration, arise before me, at that query. I see Emily Brontd reading German while she kneads the batch of home-made bread ; Charlotte, Paying down the pen upon an unfinished page of Shirley, to steal into the kitchen when poor blind Tabby’s back is turned, and bear off the potatoes the superannuated servant insists upon peeling every day, that the “dainty fingers ” may extract the black “ eyes ” the faithful old crea- ture cannot see. I see the Greek grammar fixed open in the rack above Elihu Burritt’s forge ; and Shennan, reciting to himself by day over his lapstone and last, the lessons he