What I know about Egg-beaters. I2Q incessant “beating,” “whipping,” and “frothing.” There were wire spoons with wooden handles that broke oft, and tin handles that turned the perspiring hand black ; wire whirligigs that ran up and down upon a central shaft and spattered the eggs over the face and bust of the operator; cylindrical tin vessels with whirligigs fastened in the centre, almost as good fun for the children as a monkey on a stick, but which bound the housewife to place and circumstances, since her eggs, many or few, yolks or whites, must all be churned in that vessel—not an easy one to keep clean, on account of the fixture within it. There was altogether too much machinery for the end to be accomplished, and the white of a single egg was so hard to find in the bottom of a quart pail! After a few trials, the cook tossed the “ bother- ing thing” into a dark corner of the closet, and improvised a better beater out of two silver forks, held dexterously together. Then, our enterprising “general furnishing” mer- chant overwhelmed us with a double compound back (and fonvard) action machine that was “ warranted to whip up a stiff mt!ringue in a minute and a half.” “ I will not quite endorse that, ladies,” said the most im- Eortant tradesman in a community of housekeepers and ousekept. “ But I will stake my reputation upon its doing this in two minutes.” We all bought the prize. It looked cumbrous, and it was expensive, but time is money, and we remembered that a large snow-custard must be beaten ninety minutes with an ordinary egg-whip, and cake-frosting, thirty. We paid, each of us, our dollar and a half, and carried home the time-and- muscle-saver in a box of its own, so big that we chose back streets in preference to fashionable promenades, on our return. Trembling with exultation, we rushed into the kitchen to display the treasure. “ Yes, mem ! What might it be, mem ?” “ Why, Katey! an egg-beater! and the greatest con- venience ever manufactured! ” “ Ah ! and what a silly was meself, mem, to be thinking it was coffee-mill, when I saw you a-screwin’ it on to the table! ” We screwed it “ on to the table,” at a corner, for there was not room for it to revolve at sides and ends. Katey held a bowl with eggs in it at just the right elevation below ; and by turning a crank we moved a many-cogged wheel which fitted into another wheel, which turned a whirligig at the bottom. Katey held the bowl steadily; we worked very