Meats. 73 Cut the liver in pieces less than half an inch thick, and 1 rather more than an inch square. String these evenly upon : a slender skewer (an old knitting-needle will do) alternately with bits of fat pork of the same shape and width. When I the skewer is full, lay for ten minutes in the melted butter, : season with pepper (the pork salting it sufficiently), minced I onion, and parsley, then lay in a baking-pan, and cover with . a tin plate or shallow pan. Cook slowly in a moderate oven I until the pork begins to crisp. Remove to a hot dish, draw < out the skewer carefully, so as to leave the liver in the form : in which it was cooked ; add a little hot water and butter to I the gravy, thicken with browned flour, boil up once, and pour I over the dominoes of pork and liver. Ollapodrida of Lamb. (Good.) The sweetbreads, liver, I heart, kidneys, and brains of i a lamb. (Your butcher can I easily procure all with timely 1 notice.) Handful of bread-crumbs. I raw egg, beaten light. One small, young onion, minced. I tablespoonful currant jelly. Season with salt, pepper, and parsley. I cup good broth. I Parboil the sweetbreads for five minutes, then simmer for (ten in the gravy. Take them up, and set aside to cool, • while you boil the brains in the same broth. When both 1 brains and sweetbreads are cold and firm, slice, dip in the t egg, then the crumbs, and fry in good dripping or butter. After the brains are taken from the broth, put in the slices of heart, and stew very gently for at least half an hour. Let them cool, then fry with the minced liver in dripping : seasoned with the onion, minced fine. Slice the kidneys, : and having strained the useful broth from the liver, return it to the saucepan, and stew the kidneys in it for five minutes. Next, fry these for two minutes—no more—in butter. Arrange all in a hot dish ; add to the fat left in the frying- : pan the broth, thicken with browned flour and the jelly, season to taste, and pour over the sweetbreads, etc. You can make a larger stew—or fry—of calf’s sweet- i breads, liver, heart, and brains, and by most people this w'ould be relished more than the lamb ollapodrida. It is a good plan to stew the various articles the day before you mean to cat them, and have them till cold to your hand, 1 ready for frying.