H(tsU' or Waste? 69 i certain duties; its probable stumbling-blocks ; recreation, I devotion and rest—each in its proper place? Why we ■ should not be ready, “ heart within and God o’erhead,” to • make the new day an event in our lives, a stepping-stone to ! higher usefulness to our kind and toward heaven ? Wliy we should not bring to hindrance, as to duty, tlie resolute, hope- :ful purpose with which the miner bends over his pickaxe, the ; gardener over his spade, the book-keeper over his ledger ? Why, in short, we should not magnify our office—make of ! housewifery, and child-tending, and sewing a profession— :to be studied as diligently and pursued as steadily as are ; the avocations of the other sex ? I should not dare ask these questions \vere I not already (convinced, by years of patient examination of the subject, :that it is feasible for a clear-headed, conscientious woman to ; do all this, and more. Would not “ dare,” because 1 know 1 by what a storm of indignant protest the queries will be imet, not only from those who pride themselves upon the amiable foible of “having no system,” but on the part of . deep-hearted women who are really anxious to do their share , of this world’s great work. The pale-faced mother over the way will tell me of the 'dutch of baby-fingers upon her garments whenever she (essays to move steadily onward, and how the pressure of the same holds her eyes waking through the night-watches ; 1 how the weight of baby-lips upon the breast saps strength : and vitality together. Dear and precious cares she esteems I these ; but they leave little time or energy for anything else. ' The matron, whose younglings have outgrown childhood, is ; ready with her story of the toils and distractions of a family . of merry girls who are “ in society,” and inconsiderate, un- ;punctual “boys,” who look to “mother” to supply, for the .present, the place of the coming wife to each of them. Martha, wed<ied and middle-aged, but childless, is over- ■. powered by cares, “ put upon her by everybody she relates, ■ with an ever-renewed sense of injury wearing into her soul, “ because it is believed that women without children have •nothing to do.” One and all, they are eloquent upon the subject of unfore- seen vexations, the ever-hindering “ happenings ” that, like the knots tied in wire-grass across the path by mischievous •fairies, are continually tripping them up. “Moreover,” says Mrs. Practical, “ there is little use in attempting to be methodical and to save the scraps of time unless other people do. We are liable to have our precious F