8i LIcais. White Fricassee of Rabbit. 0 I young rabbit. I pint weak broth. i pound fat salt pork. I onion, sliced. Chopped parsley, pepper and salt. A very little mace. I cup of milk or cream. I tablespoonfulcorn-starch or rice flour. I tablespoonful butter. Joint the rabbit neatly and cut the pork into strips. Put on the rabbit to boil (when it has lain in salt-and-water half an hour) in the broth, which should be cold. Put in the pork with it, and stew, closely covered, and very gently, an hour, or until tender, before adding the onion, seasoning, and parsley. When you do this, take out the pieces of rabbit, put in a covered dish to keep w’arm, and boil down the gravy very fast for fifteen minutes. Takeout the pork, then strain the gravy through your soup-strainer. Let it stand five or six minutes in a cold place that the fat may rise. Skim this off; return the gravy to the saucepan, and when it is almost on the boil stir in the cream or milk in which the corn-starch has been dissolved. Stir until it thickens, put in the butter, then the pieces of rabbit and the pork. All must simmer together five minutes, but not boil. When it is smoking hot, lay the rabbit neatly on a dish, pour over the gravy, garnish with parsley and sliced lemons and serve. Brown Fricassee of Rabbit, or“]VGCED Rabbit.” 0 I young but full - grown rabbit, or hare. ^ pound fat salt pork, or ham. I cup good gravy. “ Dripping or butter for fry- ing. I onion, sliced. Parsley, pepper, salt and browned flour. I glass of wine. I tablespoonful currant jelly. Let the rabbit lie, after it is jointed, for half an hour in cold salt-and-water. Wipe dry, and fry to a fine brown with the onion. Have ready a tin pail, or the inner vessel of a farina-kettle ; put in the bottom a layer of fat salt pork, cut into thin strips ; then, one of rabbit, seasoning well with pepper, but scantily with salt. Sprinkle the fried onion over the rabbit, and proceed in this order until your meat is used up. Cover the vessel, and set in another of warm water. Bring slowly to a boil, and let it stand where it will cook steadily, but not fast, for three-quarters of an hour, if the rabbit be large. Take out the meat, arrange it on a dish,