70 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. hoard stolen at any nunnent. If my next-door neighbor persists in ‘ dropping in ’ .i henever she feels lonely, or wants a receipt, or has a morsel of news she cannot keep, and can- not withdraw her unseasonable foot from my house under an hour at each visit, of what avail are my watchfulness and diligence ?” With her accustomed shrewdness, Mrs. Practical has put her finger upon the hardest knot of the tangle. Says that other model of sterling, every-day sense. Miss Betsy Trotwood, touching Mr. MicawbePs difficulties : “ If he is going to be continually arrested, his friends have got to be continually bailing him out—that is all !” The family of Neverthinks (“may their tribe aVerease !”) act upon the reverse principle. If their acquaintances will be continually working themselves into line with the flying hours they—the Neverthinks—must be zealous in pulling them to the rear. They are like an army of mice scamper- ing through the tidy cupboards of Mesdarnes Practical and Notable. They claim, like Death, all seasons for their own. Against such there is no recognized law, and no redress except in the determined will and wise co-operation of their victims. Dropping the fictitious personages, let us talk of this matter plainly, as face-to-face, dear reader ! Why have women, as a class, such an imperfect conception of the value of time to themselves and to others? To Mrs. Trollope belongs, I believe, the credit of bringing into general use a word which, if not elegant, is so expressive that I cannot do without it in this connection. Why do women dawdle away seconds and minutes and hours in playing at work, or affect- ing to play ? A clever young girl was once showing me a set of chairs embroidered by herself. Knowing that she was her mother’s efficient aid in the cares entailed by a large family, I asked her how she had made the time for the achievement. “Oil did it in the betweenities I” she returned gayly. “ Between prayers and breakfast ; between the children’s lessons ; between the spring and fall sewing ; beUveen morn- ing and evening calls, and in a dozen other gaps. I had a piece of it always within reach, and every stitch taken was a gain of one.” We all need play—recreation, wholesome and hearty diversion. I would guard this point carefully. God-willing, we will talk of it more at length some time ; but to make the day’s work even and close, our life’s work rich and ample, we must look well after the “ betweenities."