Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. 48 White Sauce for the above. 1 small cupful of milk, heated to boiling in a custard- kettle, or tin pail set in hot water. I heaping teaspoonful com-starch, wet with cold milk. Salt and pepper to taste. I tablespoonful butter. A little chopped parsley. Stir the corn-starch into the boiling milk until it thickens well, then the butter and seasoning. This mixture is useful in all similar preparations, but should be a little thicker for oysters than for meats. Chicken Pates. 0 Line small /<7//-pans with good puff paste, let this get crisp in a cool place, and bake in a brisk oven. Stir minced chicken, well seasoned, into a good white sauce, heat through, fill the shells, set in the oven to brown very slightly, and serve. Or, Thicken the gravy left from the roast chicken with browned flour, add to the minced meat the yolk of one or two hard- boiled eggs, mashed fine; stir all together in a saucepan until hot, and fill the paste-shells. This is a brown mixture, and if not over-cooked, is very savory. The remains of cold fowls, of any kind of game, and of veal, can be served up acceptably in this way. The patis should be small, that each person at table may take a whole one. If preferred, the paste can be cut round, as before directed, and baked without the tins. Pates of Fish. The cold remains of baked or boiled salmon, fresh cod, or halibut. Some good white sauce, richer than if intended for meat. About one-fourth as much mashed potato as you have fish. ^'olks of two or three hard-boiled eggs rubbed to a paste, with a spoonful, or so, of butter. This paste should be smooth and light. Pepper and salt to taste, and a little chopped parsley. Shells of good puff paste, baked quickly to a delicate brown, and glazed with beaten egg. Rub the sauce gradually into the mashed potato until both are free from lumps. When mixed, beat together to a cream. Season and stir m the fish (which should be “ picked ” very fine) with a silver fork, heaping it as you stir, instead of