36 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. with the broth and seasoning, into a saucepan and heat gently, stiring frequently until it is near boiling. Then add the coral and butter (which should previously be well rubbed together) and the chopped parsley. When the mixture again nears the boiling point, add the wine and lemon-juice and turn into a deepdish. Scalloped Lobster (No. i). 1 boiled lobster. 4 tablespoonfuls of cream. 2 eggs well beaten. 1 cup bread-crumbs. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. I teaspoonful anchovy sauce. Season to taste with cay- enne, salt and nutmeg. Juice of half a lemon. Rub the meat of the lobster, including the coral, a little at a time, in a Wedgewood mortar with the butter, until it is a soft paste. Put this into a saucepan with the seasoning, and heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire, and add the cream and lemon-juice, stirring in well. Fill the lobster shell with this mixture. Strew bread-crumbs over the top, and set on the upper grate of a quick oven until the crumbs begin to brown. Send to table in the shell, laid upon a hot dish. You can scallop crab in the same manner. Scalloped Lobster (No 2). I lobster, well boiled. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. I teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. i cup bread-crumbs. 1 cup of cream. 2 eggs well beaten. Season with cayenne pep- per and salt. Cut the lobster carefully into halves with a sharp knife. Pick out the meat carefully, and set aside while you prepare the sauce. This is done by rubbing the coral and the soft green substance, known as the “ pith,” together in a mortar or bowl, adding, a little at a time, a tablespoonful of butter. Put this on the fire in a covered saucepan, and stir until it is smoking hot. Then, beat in the anchovy sauce, pepper and salt before adding the cream. Heat quickly to a boil, lest the cream should curdle, put in the picked meat, and again stir up well from the sides and bottom until very hot. The eggs, whipped to a froth, should now go in. Remove the saucepan from the fire so soon as this is done. Have the upper and lower halves of the shell ready buttered, strew bread-crumbs thickly in the bottom of each,