Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea, 204 Filling. li cocoanuts, pared and grated. Whites of 4 eggs, whisked stiff. cups powdered sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls best rose- water. Instead of cochineal, you can use strawberry or currant juice in their season, making allowance for the thinning of your batter, by adding a little more flour. Cochineal is much better, however, since it takes but a few drops to color the whole cake. Any druggist will prepare it for you as he does for the confectioners, as a liquid. Or, he will powder it, and you can add to a pinch of the grayish crimson-dust a very little water; strain it, and stir in, drop by drop, until you get the right tint. It is without taste or odor, and is perfectly harmless. Heap the cake after it is filled, with the white mixture, beating more sugar into that portion intended for the frosting. Sultana Cake. 4 cups flour. I cup of butter. 3 cups powdered sugar. 8 eggs beaten light. Strain the yolks. I cup cream, or rich milk. I pound sultana (seedless) raisins, dredged thickly. 1 teaspoonful soda, dis- solved in hot water. 2 smaller teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. ^ grated nutmeg, and ^ teaspoonful of cinnamon. Cream the butter and sugar. Sift the cream of tartar with the flour. Dredge the raisins with flour when you have picked them over with great care, washed and dried them. Mix the beaten yolks with the creamed butter and sugar ; then the spice and brandy. Beat three minutes, and stir in the cream or milk lightly with the soda-water. Put in, first a handful of one, then a spoonful of th6 other, the flour and whipped whites. At last, beat in the fruit. Bake in two large loaves or four smaller ones. My own preference is for small loaves of cake. They are safer in baking, and can be cut more economically, especially where the family is not large. It is better to cut up the whole of a small cake for one meal, than to halve or quarter a large one, since the outer slices must be dry at the next cutting, and are wasted, to say nothing of the effect of the air upon the whole of the exposed interior. The Sultana must be baked slowly and carefully, and like