Tea. 223 altered—in Southern homes. In summer, the latter were always eaten by artificial light. In winter, lamps were brought in with the dessert, at dinner-time. I was almost grown before I was introduced to what the valued corre- spondent who gave us the text for the first “ Familiar Talk” in this volume calls, “ a real old New England tea-table.” During one delicious vacation I learned, and reveled in knowing what this meant. Black tea with cream (I have never relished it without, since that idyllic summer), rounds of brown bread, light, sweet, and fresh ; hot short-cake in piles that were very high when we sat down, and very low when we arose ; a big glass bowl of raspberries and currants that were growing in the garden under the back windows an hour before ; a basket of frosted cake ; a plate of pink ham, balanced by one of shaved, fiot chipped beef—and sage cheese! I had never eaten it before. I have never tasted it anywhere else than in that wide, cool tea-room, the level sun-rays flickering through the grape-vines shading the west side of the house, and through the open casements oppo- site, a view of Boston bay—all purple and rose and gold, dotted with hundreds of white sails. This was what we had, when, in that old New England farm-house, Polly, the faith- ful—who had startled me, for a time, by saying, “ proper glad,” and “ sweet pretty who “hadn’t ought” to do this, and “should admire” to do that—Polly, whom nobody thought of calling a servant, but was a “ help ” in every con- ceivable sense of the word—had “ put the kettle on and we all had tea ! ” I do not like to think it possible that in that beloved homestead they may have kept up with the times so far as to have dinner at six o’clock, and tea—never ! It is a pleasant practice, in many families, where the late dinner is convenient, and, for many reasons, preferred during the rest of the week, to have a “ comfortable tea ” on Sab- bath evening. The senants are thus released the earlier for their evening’s devotions or recreations ; the housewife has an opportunity of indulging the father, who is seldom at home at luncheon time, with dainty wonders of her skill that are not en rigle at dinner, and the children have a taste of old-fashioned home-life, the memory of which will be carried by them as long and fondly into their after-lives as I have borne the taste and fragrance of Cousin Melissa’s sage cheese. We do not say “ Cousin,” nowadays in polite so- ciety, nor christen our children Melissa. You will find else- where in this book that I have directed you, as preliminary