142 Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea. Creme du Chocolat. 0 I quart of milk. I 2 eggs, yolks and whites I pint of cream, whipped j beaten separately, light. I I cup of sugar—powdered. ^ package of gelatine, I 4 tablespoonfuls grated soaked in i cup of the j chocolate, milk. ' Vanilla to taste. Scald the milk, and stir into it while still in the saucepan, the soaked gelatine and sugar. Heat up once, and when the gelatine is quite dissolved, strain. The chocolate should be wet up with cold water before it is put into the hot milk. Stir up thoroughly, return to the saucepan, and when smoking hot, add it gradually to the beaten yolks. Set back on the fire and boil very gently five minutes—not more, or the eggs may curdle. Turn into a broad pan to cool. Whip, when it begins to coagulate, gradually and thoroughly w’ith the beaten whites, flavoring with vanilla. Lastly, beat in the whipped cream. You can add this to your coffee and tea-creams, and complete the assortment. Mould as you do them, but serve with brandied fruit, instead of cream. Most people are very fond of it. Chocolate Blanc-Mange. 0 I quart of milk. I package gelatine, dis- solved in I cup cold water. I cup sugar. 3 great spoonfuls grated chocolate. Vanilla to taste. Heat the milk; stir in sugar and soaked gelatine. Strain; add chocolate ; boil ten minutes, stirring all the time. When nearly cold, beat for five minutes—hard with your “ Dover ” egg-beater, or until it begins to stiffen. Flavor ; whip up once, and put into a w'et mould. It will be firm in six or eight hours. Chocolate Blanc-Mange and Cream. Make the blanc-mange as directed in last receipt. Set it to form in a mould with a cylinder in centre. You can im- provise one by stitching together a roll of stiff paper just the heightof the pail or bowl in which you propose to mould your blanc-mange, and holding it firmly m the middle of this while you pour the mixture around it. The paper should be well buttered. Lay a book or other light weight on the cylinder to keep it erect. When the blanc-mange is turned