95 Gravf. should be made of lean, but tender beef, and every particle of suet removed from the cooled surface before it is re- heated for the patient’s use. If you have no gravy ready when you wish to prepare ragout, or other dish requiring this ingredient, “make it.” Crack up the bones from which you have cut the flesh, and put them into a saucepan with the refuse of bits of meat, gristle, skin, etc. ; cover with cold water, and stew very gently until you have extracted all the nourishment, and from two cups of liquid in the pot when the boiling com- menced, you have one cup of tolerable gravy. A few minutes of thought and preparation in your kitchen after breakfast will enable you to have anything of this kind in season for a luncheon dish, or an entree at the early dinner, h'oresight in these matters is to be forearmed. Teach your cook, furthermore, never to toss “ that carcass” of fowl, or the ham, or mutton-bone, “ with next to nothing upon it,” to the dogs, or into the scavenger’s barrel. It will not, by itself, make good soup, unless it be very much underdone, and even then the broth will not be equal to that made from raw meat or marrow bones. But, seasoned and thickened —adding sweet herbs and a dash of catsup to the flavor- ing—it will be useful as gravy in many ways ; always re- membering that it must be skimmed before it is used. It is also well worth your while to see for yourself, when the meat comes home from market, that it has been properly trimmed for the table. Much goes into the oven or upon the spit to be roasted, or upon the gridiron to be broiled, that is unfit to be eaten after it has been baked or grilled. All bits of tough skin—all gristly portions, soft bones, and the cartilage known as “ whitleather” should be removed before cooking from roasts, chops, and steaks, when this can be done without injuring the shape of the meat. The place for these is the stew-pot. Cover them with cold water; put in no seasoning until they have simmered slowly for a long time in a close vessel, and the liquid is reduced to at most one-half of the original quantity ; then season, boil up once hard, strain, and set aside until you want to try a receipt in which “ a little good gravy ” is a desideratum. If you buy meat for gravy—which you need not do very often, if you (and your cook) are reasonably careful about “ scraps,” cooked and raw—get the coarser pieces and marrow-bones pounded to bits. Cut up the meat fine, also. You cannot, by never so long boiling, extract the strength