184 Breakfast, Lmtcheon and Tea. Apple and Batter Pudding. (Very good.) 0 rubbed in the flour. \ teaspoonful of soda, dis- solved in hot water. 1 pint of milk. 2 eggs, beaten light. I dessertspoonful butter, tartar, sifted in the flour. A pinch of salt. Flour enough for thin bat- ^ teaspoonful of cream of ter. 6 apples—well flavored and slightly tart. Pare and core the apples and put them in a buttered pud- ding-dish. Pour the batter over them and bake three-quar- ters of an hour. Eat hot with hard sauce. The baking-dish of “ ye olden time ” was never comely ; often positively unsightly. Dainty housewives pinned nap- kins around them and wreathed them with flowers to make them less of an eyesore. The pudding-dishes made now are pretty in themselves, easily kept clean ; do not crack or blacken under heat, and are set on the table in handsome stands of plated silver that completely conceal the baking- dish. A silver rim runs around the top and hides even the edge of the bowl. They can be had, with or without covers, and are invaluable for macaroni, scallops, and many other “ baked meats.” Saucepans and kettles of ever)' kind are made in the same ware. Not even so-called pastry is more ruthlessly murdered in the mixing and baking than that class of desserts the generic name of which stands at the head of this bake. Heavy, sour, sticky and oleaginous beyond civilized comparison, it is no marvel that the compound popularly known and eaten as “ fritter ” has become a doubtful dainty in the esteem of many, the object of positive loathing to some. I do not recommend my fritters to dyspeptics and babies, nor as a standing dish to anybody. But that they can be made toothsome, spongy and harmless, as well as plea- sant to those blessed with healthy appetites and unimpaired digestions, I hold firmly and intelligently. Two or three conditions are requisite to this end. The fritters must be quickly made, thoroughly beaten, of right consistency,—atid they must not lie in the fat the fraction of Pudding-dishes. Fritters.