181 EASPBERET OE CUEEANT AVI^'E. brewing, keep it by dipping large handfuls of birch tied together; and when dry, repeat the dipping once. You may thus do as many as you please; but take care that no dust comes to them or the vessel in which it has been prepared as before. When the wort is set to work, throw into it one of these bunches, and it will do as well as fresh yeast; but if mixed with a small quantity first, and then added to the whole, it will work sooner. Remarks on English Wines.—English wines would be found particularly useful, now foreign are so high priced; and though sugar is dear, they may he made at a quarter of the ex- pense. If carefully made, and kept three or four years, a pro- portionable strength being given, they would answer the purpose of foreign wines for health, and cause a very considerable reduc- tion in the expenditure. A Rich and Pleasant Wine.—Take new cider from the press, mix it with as much honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim it well; when cool let it be tunned, but do not quite fill. In March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six weeks ; but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. This will serve for any culinary purposes which sack, or sweet wine, is di- rected for. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render palatable new crabbed austere cyder. Raspberry Wine.—To every quart of well-picked raspberries put a quart of water; bruise, and let them stand two days ; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds of lump sugar; when dissolved, put the liquor into a barrel, and when fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. Raspberry or Currant Wine.—To every three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water ; bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart a pound of Lisbon sugar, of good middling quality. If for white currants, use lump-sugar. It is best to put the fruit, &c., in a large pan, and when in three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel: those who make from their own gardens may not have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once; the wine will not hurt if made in the pan, in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. Another way.—Put five quarts of currants, and a pint of ra-spberries, to every two gallons of water; let them soak a night; then squeeze and break them well. Next day rub them well on a fine wire sieve, till all the juice is obtained, washing the skins again with some of the water; then, to every gallon, put four pounds of very good Lisbon sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated; tun it immediately, and lay the bung lightly on. Do not u.se anything to work it. In two or three days put a