G6 riLLET OE MtTTTON BllAISED—IiASillED MWTON. Fillet of Miitton Braised.—Take off the chump end of the loin, blitter some paper, and put over it, and then a paste as for venison; roast it two hours. Do not let it be the least brown. Have ready some Drench beans boiled and drained on a sieve ; and -while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-up in gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. Harrico.—Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best end of the neck into rather thin steaks ; flour and fry them in their own fat of a fine light brown, but not enough for eating. Then put them into a dish while you fry the carrots, turnips, and onions; the carrots and turnips in dice, the onions sliced: but they must only be warmed, not browned, or you need not fry them. Then lay the steaks at the bottom of the stew-pan, the vegetables over them, and pour as much boiling water as will just cover them ; give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hours skim them; and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. To Hash Mutton.—Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean ; flour them ; have ready a little onion boiled in two or tliree spoonfuls of water; add to it some gravy and meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of currant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be fine. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for change. To Boil Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters.—-Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days, bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded: lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat uj) tight and tie it. Stew it m a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stew-pan should be kept close covered. Breast of Mutton.—Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers; or to eat cold, covered with chopped parsle3^ Or half boil and then grill it before the fire ; in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper sauce. Or, if boned, take off some of the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs, and seasoning; then roll and boil: and serve with chop])ed walnuts, or capers and butter. Loin of Mutton roasted; if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it eats better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. To Boll Loin of Mutton.—Hang the mutton till tender; bone it; and lay a seasoning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing as for hare ; beat the meat, and cover it with the stuffing; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half-bake it in a slow oven; let it grow cold ; take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stew-pan ; flour the meat, and put it in likewise; stew it till almost ready: and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, an anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving: serve it in the gravy,