TO FILL PEESEBVFD OKAXQES—OKANGE CHIPS. 157 To Fill Preserved Oranges (a Corner Dish).—For five, take a pound of iS’aples biscuits, some blanched almonds, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, sugar to your taste, and four ounces of butter warmed, grate the biscuits, and mix well with the above some orange-flower water. Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you like them frosted, sift sugar over them as soon as filled, otherwise wipe them. Custard to fill will do as well; if so, you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when become cold. Whole Oranges Carved,—Cut on the rinds any shapes you please with a penknife, cut a bit off near and round the stalk, and with an apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out; put them into • salt and water two days, changing it daily ; boil them an hour or :more in fresh water and salt, drain them quite dry; let them stand a night more in plain water, and then another night in a thin •syrup, in which boil them the next day a few minutes. Do this : four days successively. Let them stand six or seven weeks, ob- • serving often whether they keep well, otherwise boil the syrup ;aga n. Then make a rich syrup. Buttered Orange Juice (a Cold Dish).—Mix the juice of =seven Seville oranges with four spoonfuls of rosewater, and add the whole to the yolks of eight and whites of four eggs, well beaten ; then strain the liquor to half a pound of sugar pounded, stir it over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken, put about the size of a small walnut of butter: keep it over the fire a few minutes longer, then pour it into a flat dish, and serve it to eat cold. If you have no silver saucepan, do it in a china basin in a saucepan of boiling water, the top of which will just receive the basin. Orange Chips.—Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve; soak the peel in water ; next day boil it in the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together into a broad earthen dish, and place over the fire at a moderate distance, often stirring till the chips candy ; then set them in a cool room to dry. .They will not be so under three weeks. Orange Biscuits, or Little Cakes.—Boil whole Seville oranges in two or three waters, till most of the bitterness is gone; (mt them, and take out the pulp and juice; then beat the outside Yciy fine in a mortw, and put to it an equal weight of cioublc- •refined sugar beaten and sifted. When extremely well mixed to a pa.ste, spread it thin on china dishes, and set them in the sun or before the tire; when half dry, cut it into what form you please, tom the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box, with layers of paper. They arc for desserts; and arc also u.seful as a stomachic, to carry in the pocket on jourucy.s, or for gentlemen when shooting, and for gouty Btomaehs. Orange-flower Cakes.—Put four ounces of tl.c leaves of tho flowers into cold water for an hour; drain, and put between nap-