TO KEEP CUEBANTS—TO KEEP CODIJNS. 165 .boiling, •n’hich prevents sweetmeats from keeping; and quick boiling and long, which brings them to a candy. Attention, without much practice, will enable a person to do .any of the following sort of sweetmeats, &c., and the}'’ are as much ;as is wanted in a private family ; the higher articles of preserved fruit.s may be bought at less expense than made. Jellies of fruit made v ith an equal quantity of sugar, that is, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving, of double block tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight one, for safety, will do very well; and if put by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or brass are improper, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of :the sweetmeat ladle. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong -tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should be kept for sweet things. Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not connected with a wall. If there be the least damp, cover them only with paper . dipped in brandy, laid quite close ; putting a little fresh over in •spring, to prevent insect mould. When any sw^eetmeats are directed to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in ; private families, where there is not a regular stove for the pur- ;pose, to put them in the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the : heat, and place a garden glass over them to keep insects off; or if ;put in an oven, to take care not to let it be too warm, and watch ’ that they do properly and slowly. To Keep Currants.—The bottles being perfectly clean and dry, let the cun’ants be cut from the large stalks with the smallest bit of stalk to each, that the fruit not being w’ounded no moisture :may be among them. It is necessary to gather them when the weather is quite dry, and if the servant can be trusted, it is best ■ to cut them under the trees, and let them drop gently into the I bottles. Stop up the bottles with cork and resin, and put them into the ■ trench in the garden with the neck downwards ; stocks should be ; placed opposite to where each sort of fruit begins. Cherries and Damsons keep in the same way. Currants may be scalded, as directed for gooseberries, the first method. To Keep Codlins for several months.—Gather codlins at Midsummer of a middling size, put them into an earthen pan, f)Our boiling ■water over them, and cover the pan with cabbage- eaves, Keen them by the fire till they would peel, but do not peel them ; then x>our the water off till they are both quite cold. Place the codlins then in a stone jar with a smallish mouth, and pour on them the water that scalded them. Cover the i)Ot with bladder wetted, and tied very close, and then over it coarse paper tied again. It i.s best to keep them in small jars, such as will be used at once when opened. To Keep Gooseberries.—Before they become too large, let