OKOUSE—WILD rOWL—WOODCOCKS. 81 •small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake in a very slow oven. "When cold, take off the butter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot, which should just ;tit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in basin set in a bowl of hot water. Grouse.—Roast them like fowls, but the head is to be twisted •-Under the wing. They must not be overdone. Serve with a rich --gravy in the dish, and bread sauce. , The sauce for wild fowl, as •4viU be described hereafter under the head of Sauces, may be used unstead of common gravy. To Roast Wild Fowl.—The flavour is best preserved without stutfing. Put pepper, sah, and a piece of butter into reach. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame; they should reserved of a line brown colour, and weU frothed up. A rich :Drown gravy should be sent in the dish; and when the breast •3 cut into shces, before taking otf the bone, a squeeze of emon, with pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the iJavour. To take off the flshy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, put •in onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping-pan, and baste them :br the first ten minutes with this : then take away the pan, and •jaste constantly with butter. Wild Ducks, Teale, Widgeon, Dun-Birds, &c., should oe taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and ■:prinkle a little salt before they are taken up ; put a good gravy -inder them, and serve with shalot sauce in a boat. Woodcocks, Snipes, and Quails keep good several days, -^oast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only hould be eaten with them, as gravy takes off from the flue flavour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most. Ruffs and Reeves are skewered as quails ; put bars of bacon : >ver them, and roast them about ten minutes. Serve with a good gravy in the dish. To Dress Plovers.—Roast the green ones in the same way ii3 woodcocks and quails (see above), without drawing; and serve >n a toast. Grey plovers may be either roasted or stewed with itravy, herb.s, and spice. Plovers’ Eggs are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten ■ ninutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. I To Roast Ortolans.—Pick and singe, but do not draw them, i Tie on a bird-spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon in lices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the flavour of he ortolan. Cover them with crumbs of bread. Guinea and Pea Fowl eat. much like pheasants. Dress hem in the same way (see page 80). Hares, if properly taken care of, will keep a great time ; and ven w hen the cook fancies them past eating, may be in higdi por- DCtion, which if eaten when fresli killed they are not. As they aro 'Suaily paunched in the held, the cook cannot prevent this; but