ALMOND PTTDDINGS—BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 109 season when egrgs are dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled malt liquors, likewise serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken up from any clean spot before it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. Sote.—The yolks and whites beaten separately, make the articles they are put into much lighter. Almond Puddings.—Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds with a spoonful of water; then mix four ounces of butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some cups, half fill, and bake the puddings. Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. Baked Almond Pudding. — Beat fine four ounces of ■ almonds, four or five bitter ditto, with a little wine, the yolks of : six eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a quart of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake lit half an hour, w ith paste round the dish. Small Almond Pudding.—Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water ; mixed with four ounces of butter warmed, four yolks and two whites of eggs; ; sugar to taste ; two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy; mix well, and bake in httlecups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. Sago Pudding.—Boil a pint and a half of new milk with four • spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon peel, cinnamon, . and nutmeg; sweeten to taste, then mix four eggs, put a paste 1 round the dish and bake slowly. Bread and Butter Pudding.—Slice bread spread with butter, and lay it in a dish with currants between each layer, and • sliced citron, orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over an unboiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimentos, and a rery little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked, and lade it over to soak the bread. A paste round the edge makes aU puddings look better, but it is not necessary. Orange Pudding.—Grate the rind of a Seville orange, put to it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pounded ; beat them all in a marble mortar, and add as you do it the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained; scrape a raw apple and mix with the rest; put a paste at the bottom and sides of the dish, and over the orange nuxture put cross bars of paste. Half an hour w ill bake it. Another.—Mix two spoonfuls of orange paste with four of sugar, six eggs, foiir ounces of butter warm, and put into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. An excellent Lemon Pudding.—Beat the yolks of four eggs ; add four ounces of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lurnps of it to take the essence ; then peel, and beat it in a mortar with the iuice of a large hmion, ami mix all with four or five ounces of butter warmed. Put n crust into a ishallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. \Vhen 'Served, turn the pudding out of the dish.