GK.\TT SOUP—TEGETABLE SOUP—CABEOT SOUP. 87 hearts and tender stalks of the lettuces, the young peas, a handful of spinach cut small, and salt and pepper to relish properly, and stew till quite soft. If the soup is thin, or not rich enough, either of these faults may be removed by adding an ounce or two of butter, mL\ed with a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled with it half an hour. Before serving, boil some green mint shred line in the soup. ^Yhen there is plenty of vegetables, no meat is necessary; but if meat be preferred, a pig’s foot, or ham-bone, &c., may be boiled with the old peas, which is called the stock. More butter than is mentioned above may be used with advantage, if the soup is re- quired to be very rich. TVTien peas first come in or are very young, the stock may be made of the shells, washed and boiled till they will pulp with the above ; more thickening will then be wanted. Gravy Soup.—"Wash and soak a leg of beef; break the bone, and set it on the fire with a gallon of water a large bunch of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced and fried a fine brown (but not burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty black peppers. Stew till the sonp is as rich as you choose; then take out the meat, which wiU be fit for the servant’s table with a little of the gravy. Next day take off the cake of fat; which will serve for basting, or for common piecrust. Have ready such vegetables as you choose to serve. Cut carrots, turnips, and celery small, and simmer till tender: some people do not like them to be sent to table, only the flavour of them. Boil ver- micelli a quarter of an hour ; and add to it a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom ketchup. A French roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. Vegetable Soup.—Pare and slice five or six cucumbers ; and add to these the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a half of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with half a pound of fresh butter, into a saucep.an, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour; then pour two quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew them two hours ; rub down a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, boil it with the rest fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve it. Another way.—Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, six carrots, and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not burn it: put that, some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper and salt to the above; stew it all gently for four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth : have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little turnip, and add to your liking, and stew them tender in the soup. If approved you may add an anchovy, and a spoonful of ketchup. Carrot Soup.—Put some beef-bones, with lour quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt into a saucepan, and stew for three hours. Have ready six large carrots scraped and cut thin.