134 TO DRESS CUARDOONS—SEA KALE—LAVER, mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper, and salt. To dress Chardoons.—Cut them into pieces o." six inches long, and put on a string; boil till tender, and have ready apiece ot butter in a pan ; flour, fry them brown, and serve. Or, tie them up in bundles, and serve as asparagus boiled, on toast, and pour butter over them. Or boil in salt and water, dry, then dip them into butter, and fiy them. Serve with melted butter. Or stew them : boil as directed in last page ; toss them up with a brown or white gravy, add Cayenne, ketchup, and salt. Thicken with a bit of butter and flour. Beet-roots.—Make a very pleasant addition to winter-salad, of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being only used to ornament it. This root is cooling and very wholesome. It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a small quan- tity of onion; or stewed with whole onions, large or small, as follo\ys Eoil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a stew-pan with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar; simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour, then put it into a small dish, and make a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender; take off the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot and clear. Or, roast three large onions, and peel oflT the outer skins till they look clear, and serve the beet-root stewed round them. If beet-root is in the least broken before dressed, it parts with its colour, and looks ill. Frying Herbs, as dressed in Staffordshire.—Clean and drain a good quantity of spinach leaves, two large handfuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all on to stew with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, shake the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a slow stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calves’ liver, small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried: the latter on the herbs, the other in a separate dish. Sea Kale must be boiled very white, and served on toast like asparagus. Laver.—This is a plant that grows on the rocks near the sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared for eating. Set some of it on a dish over a lamp, with a bit of butter, and the squeeze of a Seville orange. Stir it till hot. It is eaten with roast meat, and is a great sweetener of the blood. _ It is seldom liked at first, but people become extremely fond of it by habit. . . To Preserve several Vegetables to ^at in Winter.—For