TO DKT CHERRIES WITHOUT SUGAR—CHEERY JAM. 159 ■Kentish; put them into a preserving-pan, -n-ith two pounds of ! loaf-sugar pounded and strewed among them ; simmer till they '.begin to shrivel; then strain them from the juice; lay them on ii hot hearth, or in an oven, when either is cool enough to dry •'without baking them. The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit. To Dry Cherries without Sugar.—Stone, and set them over the tire in the preserving-pan; let tliem simmer in their own '.jquor, and shake them in the pan. Put them by in common ■•china dishes; next day give them another scald, and put them, '■when cold, on sieves to dry, in an oven of a temperate heat as iabove. Twice heating, an hour each time, will do them. Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer. To Dry Cherries the best way.—To every five pounds of ■ cherries stoned, weigh one of sugar double-refined. Put the fruit xnto the preserving-pan with very little water; make both scald- ;mg hot; take the fruit immediately out and dry them ; put them lento the pan again, strewing the sugar between each layer of ccherries; let it stand to melt; then set the pan on the fire, and make it scalding hot, as before ; take it off, and repeat this thrice stwith the sugar. Drain them from the syrup, and lay them singly IX) dry on dishes, in the sun or on a stove. When dry, put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and draw it instantly icut again, and pour them on a fine soft cloth ; dry them, and set ihem once more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a •joi, with layers of white paper, in a dry place. This way is ihe best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. Cherries in Brandy.—Weigh the finest morellas, having cut eff half the stalk prick them with a new needle, and drop them into a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three quarters the weight of sugar or white candy; strew over; fill up with brandy, and tie 11 bladder over. Cherry Jam.—To twelve pounds of Kentish or duke cherries, rvhen ripe, weigh one pound of sugar; break the stones of part, Lind blanch the kernels ; then put them to the fruit and sugar, and wil all gently till the jam comes clear from the pan. Pour it into china plates to come up dry to table. Keep in boxes with white iiaper between. Currant Jam, Black, Red, or White.—Let the fruit be "•ery ripe, pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every )Ound put tfiree quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar; stir it well, Lind boil half an hour. Currant Jelly, Red or Black.—Strip the fruit, and strew hem in a stone jar in a saucepan of water, or boil them on the lOt hearth ; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound ►f loaf-sugar; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or hina vessel, till nearly dissolved ; tlieu put it in a preserving-pan; I immer and skim as necessary. When it will jelly on a plate, put t in small jars or glasses. Apple Marmalade.—Scald apples till they will pulp from L