211 TO TAKE STAINS OF ANT KIND OUT OF LINEN. time. Then pour it into an earthen pan ; and set it by for a day or two, till the colour is settled. Pour off the water, and mix the colotu* with whitewasher’s size. Wash the walls three or four times, according as is necessar)^ Yellow.—Dissolve in soft water, over the fire, equal quantities separately of umber, bright ochre, and blue black. Then put it into as much whitewash as you think sufficient for the work, some of each, and stir it all together. If either cast predominates, add more of the others tdl you have the proper tint. The most beautiful whitewash is made b.y mixing the lime and size with skim mQk, instead of water. Roman Cement, or Mortar for outside Plastering, or Brick-work.—This will resist all weather ; and may be used to sreat advantage to line reservoirs, as no water can penetrate it. Take eighty-four pounds of drift-sand, twelve pounds of uu- slacked hme and four pounds of the poorest cheese grated through an iron grater. "When well mixed, add enough hot (but not boil- ing) water to make into a proper consistence for plastering, such a quantity of the above as is wanted. It must have good an.' quick working. One hod of this mortar wfil go a great way, as i i is to be laid on in a thin smooth coat, without the least space being left uncovered. The wall or lath-work should be covered first with hair and lime-mortar, and well dried. This was used by the ancients, and is now adopted among us. The Suffolk cheese does better than anv other of this countrv. TO TAKE STAINS OF ANY KIND OUT OP EINEN.—Stains caused by Acids.—"^V'et the part aud lay on it some salt of wormwood. Then i-ub it without diluting it with more water. Another.—Let the cloth imbibe a little water without dipping, and hold the part over a lighted match at a due distance. The spots will be removed by the sulphureous gas. Another way.—Tie up in the stained part some pearlash; then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, and boil the linen till the stain disappears. Stains of "Wine, Fruit, &c,, after they have been long in the Linen.—Eub the part on each side with yellow soap. Thf-n lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick ; rub it util in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the stain comes out. If not removed^ in three or four days, rub that off, and re- new the process. "When dry it may be sprinkled with a little water. Many other Stains may be taken out by dipping tlic linen in sour butter-milk, and drying in a hot sun.—Then wash it in cold w'.‘' r, and dry it, two or three times a day. Ironmoulds should be wetted ; then laid on a hot water- plate, and a little es.sential salt of lemons put on the part. If tho linen becomes dry, wet it and renew the i)roccRS ; oi;.scrving that the i>late i.s kept boiling hot. Mueli of the powder sold under tho name of salt of lemons is a spuriou.a ijreparation ; and therefore it is nei c- ^ry to dip the linen in a good tleal of water, and wash it