120 POTATO PASTE—SnOPT CETTSTS. disli, and cover it with the rice ; by the addition of an egg the rice will adhere better. Kabbits fricasseed, and covered thus, are very good. Potato Paste.—Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while warm, a sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold to- gether, or you may mix with it an egg ; then, before it gets cold, flour the board pretty well to prevent it from sticking, and roll it to the thickness wanted. If it has become quite cold before it be put on the dish, it will be apt to ci’ack. Raised Crusts for Custards or Fruit.—Put four ounces of butter into a saucepan with water, and when it boils pour it into as much flour as you choose ; knead and beat it till smooth ; cover it, as at page 108. Raise it; and if for custard, put a paper within to keep out the sides till half done, then fill with a cold mixture of milk, egg, sugar, and add a little peach v'ater, lemon peel, or nutmeg. By cold is meant that the egg is not to be warmed, but the milk should bo warmed by itself—not to spoil the crust. The above butter will make a great deal of raised crust, which must not be rich, or it will be difficult to prevent the sides from falling. Excellent Short Crusts.—Take two ounces of fine white sugar, pounded and sifted, quite dry, then mix it with a pound of Hour well dried; rub into it three ounces of butter so fine as not to be seen—into some cream put the yolks of two eggs, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paste; roll it thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. Another.—Mix with a pound of fine flour dried, an ouqce of sugar pounded and sifted; then crumble three ounces of butter in it till it looks all like flour, and with a gill of boiling cream work it up to a fine paste. Another, not sweet but rich.—Rub six ounces of butter in eight ounces of fine flour ; mix into a stiffish paste, with as little water as possible ; beat it well, and roll it thin. This, as well as the former, is fit for tarts of fresh or preserved fridts. Bake in a • moderate oven. A very fine Crust for Orange Cheesecakes, or Sweet- meats, when to be particularly nice.—Dry a pound of fine flour, mix with it three ounces of refined sugar; then work half a pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three, and whites of two eggs. _ If too limber, put some flour aud sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your patty-pans, and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg as thick as you can; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for nuEce. pies, or gny sweet things, should be washed,