1-50 LONDON SYLLABUB—LEMON nONEYCOMB. slowly, half an hour; add in boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea^ Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop of water; or use cream. For yelloto, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron, steeped in the liquor and squeezed. For green, pounded spinach leaves or beet leaves, express the juice, and boil in a tea-cupful in a saucepan of water to take oft tlie rawness. London Syllabub.—Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk.— In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, and pounded cin- namon and sugar. Staffordshire Syllabub.—Put a pint of cider, and a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, into a bowl and milk into it; or pour warm milk from a large teapot some height into it. A very fine Somersetshire Syllabub.—In a large china bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or other white wine; sugar to taste. Milk the bowl full. In twenty minutes’ time cover it pretty high with clouted cream; grate over it nutmeg, put pounded cinnamon and nonpareil comfits. Devonshire Junket.—Put warm milk into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then nut some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon on the top, without Ijreaking the curd. Everlasting, or Solid Syllabubs.—Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of refined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine in a deep pan; put to it the grated peel and the juice of three lemons. Beat or whisk it one way half an hour : then put it on a sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in the shal- low end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in a cool place, ten days. Lemon Honeycomb.—Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sv^ar; Avhisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon juice. Do it the day before it is to be used. Rice and Sago Milks are made by washing the seeds nicely, and simmering with milk over a slow fire till sufficiently done. The former sort requires lemon, spice, and sugar; the latter is good without anything to fiavour it. A very Pretty Supper Dish.—Boil a tea-cupful of rice, having first washed it, in milk, till tender; strain off the milk, lay the rice in little heaps on a dish, strew over them some finely non dered sugar and cinnamon, and put M’arm wine and a little butter into the dish. Savory Rice.—Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small quantity of veal or rich mutton broth, Avith an onion, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boiled to mash, dry it on the shallow end of a sieve before the fire, and