142 BLANC-3IANGE—GOOSEBEEET OE APPLE TEIFLE. sugar, or a little cirmamon, rose-water, orange-flower water, or white wine, to your taste; and put it into a star form, or any other. Let it stand some hours before you turn it into a dish; then put round it thick cream or custard. Blanc-mange or Blamange.—Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water half an hour ; strain it to a pint and a half of cream; sweeten it, and add some peach-water, or a few bitter almonds; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you please. If not to be very stiff, a little less isinglass will do. Observe to let the blamange settle before you turn it into the forms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top of the blamange when taken out of the moulds. Jaune-mange.—Pour a pint of boiling water over three ounces of isinglass, and when it is dissolved, add a pint of white wine, the juice of three oranges, and two lemons, the peel of a lemon shred fine; sweeten this to your taste, and add the yolks of eight eggs ; let it simmer gently, strain, and pour into moulds. Turn out next day. An excellent Trifle.—Lay macaroons and ratafia-drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will suck up, which, when they have done, pour on them cold rich custard made with more eggs than directed in the foregoing pages, and some rice flour. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of raspberry jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip, made the day before, of rich cream, the whites of two well-beaten eggs, sugar, lemon peel, and raisin wine, well beat up with a whisk kept only to whip syllabubs and creams. If made the day before iised it has quite a different taste, and is sohd and far better. Gooseberry or Apple Trifle.—Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine, and to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the .yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time ; do not let it boil; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a spoon, and then put on it a whip made the day before, as for other Trifle. Chantilly Cake, or Cake Trifle.—Bake a rice cake in a mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put in a thick custard and some tea-spoonfuls of raspberry jam, and then put on a high whip. Gooseberry Pool.—Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lisbon sugar; set the jar on a stove or in a saucepan of water over the fire ; if the former, a large spoonful of u ater should be added to the fruit. When it is done enough to pulp, press it through a colander ; have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk and a tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together; or an egg instead of the latter, and left to be cold; then sweeten it pretty