TO ilAKK WASU-BiLLS—TASTE FOB CnAPl’ED LIPS. 209 of musk, a quarter of a poimtl of au"elica-root sliced, a quart of the red parts of clove-gillyflovrers, two handfuls of lavender- tl ^wcrs, half a handfid of rosemary-flowers, bay aud laui’el leaves, half a handful of each ; tlu-ee Seville oranges, stuck as full of cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, and pounded; half a hand- ful of knotted marjoram, aud two handfuls of balm of Gilead dried. Cover all quite close. When the pot is uncovered the perfume is very fine. A quicker Sort of Sweet Pet.— Take three handfuls of orange-flowers, three of clove-gillyflowers, three of damask roses, one of knotted marjoram, one of lemon-thyme, six bay-leaves, a handful of rosemary, one of mjTL’tle, half a one of mint, one of lavender, the rind of a lemon, aud a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Chop all, and put them in la3'ers, with pounded baj^ salt between up to the top of the jar. If all the ingredients c.annot be got at once, put them in as j'ou ge: them, alwa.vs throwing in salt with every new article. To Make Wask-Balls.—Shave thin two pounds of new white soap into about a tea-cupful of rose-water; then pour as much boiling water on it as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint of sweet oil, four pennj'-worth of oil of almonds, half a pound of spermaceti, and set aU over the fire till dissolved; then add the soap, and half an ounce of camphor that has first been reduced to powder by rubbing it in a mortar with a few drops of spirits of wine or lavender-water, or an.y other scent. Boil ten minutes, then pour it into a basin, and stir it till it is quite thick enough to roll up into hard balls, which must then be done as soon as pos- sible. If essence is used, stir it in quick after it is taken off the fire that the flavour maj"- not flj’’ off. Paste for Chapped Hands, and which will preserve them smooth by constant use.—Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted heg’s lard, which has been washed in common and then rose- water, with the yolks of two new-laid eggs and a large spoonful of hont-j'. Add as much fine oatmeal, or almond-paste, as will work into a paste. For Chapped Lips.—Put a quarter of an ounce of gum ben- iarnm, “torax, and spermaceti, twopenny-worth of alkanet-root, a large juirw apple chopped, a bunch of black grapes bruised, a quarter of a pound of unsalted butter, and two ounces of bees-wax irgo a new tin .saucepan. Simmer geutlj' till the wax. &c., are di .-so.vf'd, and then strain it through a linen cloth. AVhen cold m«It it acain, and pour it into small pots or bo.xes, or if to make cake», u-"' the bottoms of tea-cups. Hungary Water.—To one pint of liighly rccti.flcd spirit of wir.c put an ounce of oil of roaemar^' and two drams of c.saeuco of ar.ob 'rgri.^ ; slinkc tlic bottle well .“cvcral times, tlicn let the cork r-oi lui out t vent3'-four hours. After a monlli, during which tijii" -.i kc duilv, p ;‘^ lli' water into small bottles. Honey Water. -IV.V a pint of .«pirit as above, and three d."u.,.s of r - of amb'.rgrio ; shake them well dail3'