KOASX LKO OF FOllK—LOIX AND NECK OF FOllK. 57 rich, but it is not so tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter has the spring or fore-leg, the fore-loin or ueeh, the •spare-rib and griskin. The hind has the leg and the loin. The feet of pork make various good dishes, and should be cut ofl' before the legs are cured. Observe the same of the ears. The bacon hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair, and •sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. To Eoast a Leg of Pork.—Choose a small leg of fine young ; pork; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife: and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. ' "VVhen half-done, score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. To Boil a Leg of Pork.—Salt it eight or ten days: when it is to be dressed, weigh it, let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up : skim it as soon as it bods, and frequentlj' after. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make peas soup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth, floured ; which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a fine grain. Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. Loin and Neck of Pork.—Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at distances of half an inch, with a sharp pen- knife. Shoulders and Breasts of Pork.—Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulder as a leg : when very nice, they may be roasted. Rolled Neck of Pork.—Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. Spring, or Forehand of Pork.—Cut out the bone; sprinkle salt, pepper, and sage dried, over the inside ; but first warm a little butter to baste it, and then flour it: roll the pork tight, and tie it; then roast by a hanging jack. About two hours will do it. Spare-rib should be basted with a very little butter and a little flour, and then sprinkled with dried sage crumbled, Apple sauce and potatoes, as for roasted pork. Pork Griskin is usually very hard ; the best way to prevent this is, to put it into as much cold water ad will cover it, and let it boil up ; then instantly take it off, and put it into a Dutch oven; a very few minutes will do it. Remember to rub butter over it, and then flour it, before you put it to the fire. Blade-bone of Pork is taken from the bacon hog: the less meat left on it in moderation, the better. It is to be broiled; and when just done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of butter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard : and serve it covered, quickly. Tliis is a Somersetshire dish. To Dress Pork as Lamb.—Kill a young pig of four or five months old ; cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as you dj