58 PORK STEAKS—SAUSAGES—SUCKING PIG. lamb, and truss the shank close. The other parts u ill make deli- cate pickled pork ; or steaks, i^ies, &c. Pork Steaks.—Cut them from a loin or neck, and of mid- dling thickness ; pepper and broil them, tui’niug them often ; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time. To Pickle Pork.—The quantities proportioned to the mid- dlings of a pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt; sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it twenty-four hours : then rub with the above; pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the pork to prevent it from swimming in the ijickle which the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue very fine for two years. Sausages.—Chop fat and lean of pork together; season it with sage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries of allspice; half fill hogs’ guts that have been soaked and made ex- tremely clean : or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered : and so rolled and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage, or mashed potatoes put in a form, brown with salamander, and garnish with the above: they must be pricked with a fork before they are dressed, or they will burst. An excellent Sausage to eat Cold.—Season fat and lean pork, with some salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat: the sixth day cut it small and mix with it some shred shalot or garlic, as fine as possible. Have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and soaked well, and till it with the above stuffing; tic up the ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must bo high-dried. Some eat it without boiling, but others like it boiled first. The skin should be tied in different places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. Spadbury’s Oxford Sausages.—Chop a pound <and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews ; add three quarters of a pound of beef-suet; mince and mix them; steep the crumb of a penny loaf in water, and mix it with the meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper and salt. To Scald a Sucking Pig.—The moment the pig is killed, put it into cold water for a few minutes, then rub it oyer with a little resin beaten extremely small, and put it into a pail of scald- ing water half a minute; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off the hair as quickly as possible; if any part does not come off, put it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water, and then in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails ; put the liver, heart and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughl3q and fold it in a M^ct cloth to keep it from the air.