102 DIRECTION’S FOR SA’VODRY PIES. Balls made tliis way are remarkably light; but being greasy, some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. Little Eggs for Turtle.—Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes to harden. Browning, to Colour and Flavour Made Dishes.— Beat to powdor four ounces of double-refined sugar, put it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce of fine fresh butter, mix it well over a clear fire, and when it begins to froth, hold it up higher; when of a very fine dark brown, pour in a small quan- tity of a pint of port, and the whole by very slow degrees, stirring all the time. Put to the above half an ounce of Jamaica, and the some of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades of mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mushroom, and the same of wal- nut ketchup, some salt, and the finely pared rind of a lemon ; boil gently fifteen minutes, pour it into a basin till cold, take off the scum, and bottle for use. Casserol, or Rice, Edging for aUCurrie, or Fricassee. —After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in water, _ nd a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash; drain, and put it round the inner edge of the dish, to the height of two inches ; smooth it with the back of a spoon, and wash it over with yolk of egg, and put it into the oveji for three or four minutes, then serve the meat in the middle. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. SAVOURY PIES. (fruit pies will be placed under the head pastry.) Observations on Savoury Pies. There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than relishing pies, if properly made; and they may be made so of a great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and, in that case, there should be no suet put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie is either made of meat that will take more dressing, to make it extremely tender, than the baking of the crust will allow ; or if it is to be served in an earthen pie-form; observe the following preparation :— Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for instance) that has fat and lean ; wash it, and season it with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well in. Set it by the side of a slow fire, in a stew-pot that will just hold it; put to it a piece of butter, about two ounces, and cover it quite close; let it just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink. When it is cold add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs: and if it is in a dish, put some gravy to it before baking ; but if it is only in crust, do not put the gravy till after it is cold and in jelly, as has been