180 TO DEFINE ALE, WINE, Oli CYOED. were brewed; masb, and let stand, and then boil, &c. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that were boiled for the strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a tea- spoonful, or more if required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug, will rectify it. Let it be drawn just before it is drunk, or it M ill taste flat. Excellent Table Beer.—On three bu.sliels of malt pour of hot M’ater the third of the quantity you are to use, M'hich is to be thirty-nine gallons. Cover it warm half an hour, then mash, and let it stand tv-o hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When dry, add half the I’emaining water, mash, and let it stand half an hour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of the M^ater on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Hun that off, and mix all together, A pound and a half of hops should be infused in water, as in the former receipt, and be I>ut into the tub for the first running. Boil the hops m ith the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or tM O of wort may be prepared, and a quart of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the M ort should be added together, and thoroughly mixed M’ith the lade-pail. When the M'ort ceases to M ork, put a bit of paper on the bunghole for three days, Mhen it may be safely fastened close. In three or four weeks the beer M'ill be fit for drinking. Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel as soon as the cock is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, the air causing casks to become musty. To Eefine Beer, Ale, Wine, or Cyder.—Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you m ant to clear, beat it with a uhisk every day till dissolved. DraM' off a third part of the cask, and mix the above M’ith it: likewise a quarter of an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar cal- cined, and one ounce of burnt alum poM'dered. Stir it M*ell, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it M’ith a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it M ill be fine. Extract of Malt for Coughs.—Over half a bushel of pale ground malt, pour as much hot, not boiling water, as M’ill just cover it. In forty-eight hours drain off the liquor entirely, but M'ithout squeezing the grains; put the former into a large sweetmeat-pan, or saucepan, that there may be room to boil as quick as possible, M ithout boiling over: M’hen it begins to thicken, stir constantly. It must be as thick as treacle. A dessert-spoonful thrice a day. To Preserve Yeast.—When you have plenty of yeast, begin to save it in the folloM’ing manner:—Whisk it until it becomes thin, then take a new large M ooden dish, wash it very nicely, and M’hen quite dry, lay a layer of yeast over the inside M’itli a soft brush ; let it dry, then put another layer in the same manner and so do until you have a sufficient quantity, observing that each coat dry thoroughly before another be added. It may be put on tM O or three inches thick, and M’ill keep several months; M’hen to bo used, cut a piece out and sth it in M arm M’ater. If to bo used for