104 BEEP STEAK PIE—CALp’s HEAD PIE. into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pilchards, which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor ; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. Beef Steak Pie.—Prepare the steaks as in page 44, and when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puff paste round the edges ; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. Veal Pie.—Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck; season it; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt aud pepper ; and also forcemeat and eggs : and if you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut into small bits, and cock’s-combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy ready to pour in after baking. It will be very good with- out any of the latter additions. A Rich Veal Pie.—Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal; season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in powder. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in tlie same manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish ; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters, up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill the dish with water; cover, and when it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoon- fuls of good veal gravy, and some cream to fill up ; but first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, &c. if approved. Veal (or Chicken) and Parsley Pie.—Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal; if the leg, from about the knuckle. Season them with salt: scald some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze it dry ; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish; then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Cover it, and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and put in a pint of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the same way. Veal Olive Pie.—Make the olives as directed in page 53 ; put them round and round in the dish, making the middle highest. Fill it up almost with water, and cover it. Add gravy, cream, and flour. Calf’s Head Pie.— Stew a knuckle of veal tiU fit for eating with two onions, a few isinglass shavings, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns, in three pints of water. Keep the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in the broth till it is very good. Half boil the head, and cut it in square bits ; put a layer of ham at the bottom ; then some head, first fat then lean, with balls aud hard eggs cut in half, and so on till the dish be full; but be particularly careful not to place the pieces close, or the pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The meat must be ffl’st pretty well seasoned with