TO TAKE INK OUT OF MAHOGANY—FLOOK CLOTHS. 215 a linen rag; 'when it has lain some lime, rub it bright with linen dnths. Eating-tables should be covered with mat, oil-cloth, or baize, to prevent "staining, and be instantly rubbed when the dishes arc taken off, while still warm. To Take Ink out of Mahogany.—Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather; watch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. It is, therefore, better to rub it quick, and repeat if not quite removed. Floor Cloths should be chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, that is well covered with the coloui’, and the flowers on which do not rise much above the gi’ound, as they wear out first. The durabihty of the cloth will depend much on these two parti- culars, but more especially on the time it has been painted, and the goodness of the colours. It they have not deen allowed suffi- cient space for becoming hardened, a very little use will injure them; and as the}' are very expensive articles, care in preserving them is necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, either hungup in a dry barn where they will have air, or laid down in a spare room. "When taken up for the u inter, they should be rolled round a carpet roller, and observe not to crack the paint by turning the edges in too suddenly. Old carpets answer extremely well, painted and seasoned some months before laid down. If for passages, the width must be directed when they are sent to the manufactory, as they are cut before painting. To Clean Floor-cloths.—Sweep, then wipe them with a flannel; and when all dust and spots are removed, rub witli a waxed flannel, and then with a dry plain one ; use but little wax, and rub only enough with the latter to give a little smoothness, or i: may endanger your falling. AYashing now and then with milk afrer the above sweeping, and diy-rubbiug them, give as beautiful a lock, and they are less slippery. To Dust Carpets and Floors.—Sprinkle tea-leaves on them, then sweep carefully. The former should not be swept fre- quently with a whisk brush, as it wears them fast; only once a week, and the other times with leaves and a hair brush. Fine carpets should be gently done with a hair hand-brush, such as for c!o'.!i.=i, on the knees. To Clean Old Carpets.—Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hancl- br;?h ; tnm it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox-gall, an I s'zap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Tlicn •ay it on the gra.».=<. or hang it up to dry. To Give to Boards a Beautiful Appearance.—After washing them ver}' nicely clean with soap and warm vater and a br;-’n, wa.sh them with a very large sponge and clean water. Both tirm .s ob.scrvc to leave no spot untouched ; and clean straight u]) ami down, not cro.s.dng from board to board ; then dry with clean cl /hs. rubbing hard up and down in the same way. iliC f!m>r.s .sti'juld not be often netted, but very thoroughly