srprERS. 227 Things for Second Cotu'se.—Birds : and Game of all sorts. Shell Fish, cold and potted. Collared and Potted Fish. Pickled ditto. Potted Birds. Bibs of Lamb roasted. Brawn. Vege- tables. stewed or in sauce. French Beans. Peas. Asparagus. Cauliflower. Fricassee. Pickled Oysters. Spinach, and Arti- choke bottoms. Stewed Celery. Sea Kale. Fruit Tarts. Pre- served-Fruit Tourtes. Pippins stewed. Clieese-cakes, various sorts. All the list of Sweet Dishes, of which abundance are given from page 139 to 164-, with directions for preparing them, such as Creams, Jellies, and all the finer sorts of Puddings, Mince pies, &c. Omelet. Macaroni. Oysters in Scallops, stewed or pickled. Having thus named the sort of things used for the two courses, the reader will think of many others. For removes of Soup and Fish one or two joints of Meat or Fowl are seiwed; and for one small course, the articles suited to the second must make a part. Where Vegetables and Fowls, &c., are twice dressed, they add to the appearance of the table the first time; three sweet things may form the second appearance without greater expense. The Bills of Fare which have been given from page 21S to 219, mav be modified at discretion. tn some houses, one dish at a time is sent up with the vege- tables or sauces proper to it, and this in succession hot and hot. In others, a course of Soups and Fish; then Meats and boiled Fowls, Turkey, Ac. Made Dishes and Game follow; and, lastly, Sweet Dishes; but these are not the common modes. It is worthy observation here, that common cooks do not think of sending up such articles as are in the house, unless ordered ; though by so doing, the addition of a collared or pickled thing, some Fritters, fried Patties, or quick-made Dumplings, would be useful when there happened to be accidental visitors ; and at all times it is right to better the appearance of the table rather than let things spoil below, by which the expense of a family is more increased than can be easily imagined. Vegetables are put on the side-table at large dinners, as likewise sauces, and servants bring them rormd : but some inconveniences attend this plan ; and when there are not manv to wait, delay is occasioned ; besides that, by awkardness, the clothes of the company may be spoiled. If the table Ls of a due size, the articles alluded to will not fill it too much. SUri’EBS. Hot suppers are not much in use where people dine verv late When required, the ton and bottom, or either, may be Game. Fowls. Babbit. Boiled Fi.sh, such as Soles. Mackerel. Oysters, stewed or scalloped. French Beans. Cauliflower, or .Jerusalem Artichokes, in white Saiice. Brocoli with Egg.s. Stewed Spinacli and ditto. Swcetbread.s. Small Birds. Mu^irooms. Potatoes. Scallop, See. Cutlet.s. Boast t)nions. Salmagundy. Buttered Eggs, on foa.st. Cold Neal's Tongue. Ham. CoUurcd things. HunUr’s Beef sliced Buak.s buttered with Anchovies on. Grated Hung beef with Butter, with or without Besks. Grated Cheeso