119 PASTKY—KICU PUFP PASTE. one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. It win be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them : and serve as a sauce a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert-spoonful of peach leaf or almond water, and some white sugar warmed together, not to be served in the dish. Another way.—Shce potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry them. Serve with white sugar sifted over them. Lemon peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water should be added to the butter. Bockings.—Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour with a tea- cupful of wann milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire about an hour; then mix four eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pan- cakes, and fry them the same. PASTRY.—Rich Puflf Paste.—Puffs may be made of any sort of fruit, but it should be prepared first with sugar. Weigh any quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you judge necessarj'; mix a httle of the former witli the latter, and w et with as little water as will make it into a stiff paste. Poll it out, and put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends, and roll it thin; do this twice, and touch it no more than can be avoided. The butter may be added at twice; and to those who are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to do so. A quicker oven than for a short crust. A less rich Paste.—Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, and an egg well beaten—of the former as little as ■ will .sufiice, or the paste will be tough. Poll, and fold it three or ; four times. Pub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, six ounces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar ; work up the whole into a istiff paste with as little hot water as possible. Crust for Venison Pasty.—To a quarter of a peck of fine Pour u.se two pounds and a half of butter, and four eggs; mix into paste with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good con- •sistence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long con- tinuance in the oven. Rice Paste for Sweets.—Boil a quarter of a pound of ground .'rice in the smallest quantity of water ; strain from it all the mois- *Cure as well as you can ; beat it in a mortar with half an ounce of outter. and one egg well beaten, and it will make an excellent t ?aste for tarts, <fee. ' Rich Paste for relishing things.—Clean, and put some race, with an onion and a little water and milk, or milk only, into i k , saucepan, and simmer till it swell. J’ut seasoned chops into a