OUAXGEADK—I’GG COOKEHT FOP. THE POOP.. 205 I ninutes begin cburniiig, and continue so to do till tlio flakes of butter swim about jireUy thick, and the milk has discharged all ' he ffreasy particles,and appears thin and blue. Strain it tlirough II sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible. It should form the whole of the patient’s drink, and the food ‘•hould be biscuits and rusks, in every way and sort; ripe and idried fniits, of various kinds, when a decline is apprehended. Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make excellent tsuppers for invalids, with biscuits or common cake. Orgeat.—Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful of cDrange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two ; then pour a ejuart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar, or I eapillaire. This is a fine drink for those who have a tender chest; iind in the gout it is highly useful, and, with the addition of half iin ounce of gum arabic, has been found to allay the painfulness of •.'he attendant heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added if •.ihought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat may be put into a basin of warm water. Another orgeat, for company, is in page 168. Orangeade, or Lemonade.—Squeeze the juice from a dozen of the fruit; pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover ■ dose. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When iall are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as nnuch more water as will make a rich sherbet; strain through a ; jelly-bag. Or squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capillaire. Egg "Wine.—Beat an egg, mix it with a spoonful of cold water; •set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, .and nutmeg. When it boils pour a little of it to the egg by degrees till the whole be in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not nnorc than a minute: for if it boil, or the egg be stale, it wUl •curdle. Serve with toast. Egg wine may be made as above, -without warming the egg, and it i.s then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to the taste. COOKEE-Y FOR THE POOR.—General Remarks '.and Hints.—I promised a few hints, to enable every family to assist the poor of their neighbourhood at a very trivial ex- pen.se : and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of the mistress. "NV here cows are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is a valuable pre- *8ent^ and a very common one. hen the oven is hot, a large pudding may be baked, and given to a sick or young family ; and thus made, tlie trouble is little:— Into a deep coarse 7; m put half a pound of rice, four ounces of coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two oimccs of dripping ; .set it cold into the oven. It w ill take a good w hile, but be an excellent solid forxl. A TCTj good meal may be bestowed in a thing called brewis, '■which is thus madeCut a very tliick upper crust of broad, and