213 DIUECXIOXS TO SEETANTS. orer them, and when dry repea': it. Twice is sufficient, unless the colour is to be very dark. When dry. rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth. Beat up the white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. The dye will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar will take it off, before they are washed. A Liquor to Wash Old Deeds, &c. on Paper or Parch- ment, when the Writing is Obliterated, or when Eunh, TO make it Legible.—Take five or six galls, bruise them, and put them into a pint of strong white wine : let it stand in the sun two days. Then dip a brash into the wine, and wash the part of the writing which is sunk ; and by the colour you will see whether it is strong enough of the galls. To Prevent the Rot in Sheep.—Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the grass. To Prevent Green Hay from Firing.—Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible ; tie the mouth with a cord; and make the rick round the sack, drawing it tip as the rick advances in height, and quite out 'svhen finished. The funnel thus left in the centre preserves it. To Preserve a Granary from Insects and Weasels.— niake the floor of Lombardj^ poplars. To Destroy Crickets.—Put Scotch snuff upon the holes where rhev come. DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS.—To Clean Calico Ihirniture when taken down for the Summer.—Shake off the loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furni- ture brash ; after which v ipe it closely with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. If jiroperly done, the curtains wOl look nearly as well as at first, and if the colour be not light, the}' will not require washing for years. Bold in large parcels, and put carefidly by. While the furniture remains up, it should be preserved from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours ; and the dust may be blown off with bellows. By the above mode curtains may be kept clean, even to use wich the linings newly dmped. To Clean Plate,—Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn- powder /n a quart of water; while on the fire, put into it as much plate as the vessel will hold ; let it boil a little, then take it out, drain it over the saucepan, and dry it before the fire. Put in more, and serve the same, till you have done. Then put into the water some clean linen rags till all be soaked up. When dry, they will sc-rve to clean the plate, and ore the very best things to clean Bie brass locks and finger-jjlates of doors. When the plate is quite dry, it must be rubbed bright with leather. This is a very nice mode. In many plate-powders there is a mixture of quicksUver, which is wry injurious ; and, among othcT di.sadvantages, it makes silver so brittle that from a fall it will break.