30 SOLES—PLAICE—EELS. Soles in the Portuguese way.—Take one large or two small: if large, cut the fish in two; if small, they ueed only be split. The bones being taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon juice, give it a fry, then lay tlie fish on a dish, and spread a, forcemeat over each piece, and roll it round, fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over; and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat-gravy, a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine and some parsley chopped, into the bottom of the pan; cover it close, and bake till the fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed; if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to it. Portuguese Stuffing for Soles Baked.—Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garhc or shalot, some parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound all fine with a few crumbs, and bind it with two or tliree yolks of eggs. The heads of the fish are to be left on one side of the split part, and kept on the outer side of the roll; and when served the heads are to be turned towards each other in the dish. Garnish with fried or dried parsley. An excellent way of Dressing a Large Plaice, espe- cially if there be a Roe.—Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty- four hours; then wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, and cover with crumbs of bread; make some lard or fine dripping, and two large spoonfuls of vinegar, boding hot; lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. You may dip the fish in vinegar, and not put it into the pan. To Fry Smelts.—They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth; then lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread-crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of 6ot/- ing lard; let them continue gently boihng, and a few minutes^ will make them a bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty wdl be lost. EELS.—Spitchcock Eels.—Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut them into pieces of three inches long, open them on the belly side, and clean them nicely: wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. Rub the gridiron wuth a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. , , . Fried Eels.—If small, should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. Boiled Eels.—The small rues are best: do them in a smal