DK. KATOLIFF’s EESTORATIYB FORK JELLY. 199 ) pepper-corns; let them simmer till the eels are broken, and the broth good. Add salt, and strain it ofF. The above should make three half-pints of broth. Tench Broth.—Make as eel broth above. They are both 'very nutritious, and light of digestion. Beef Tea.—Cut a pound of fleshy beef into thin slices ; sim- :mer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once ' boiled, and been skunmed. Season, if approved; but it has . generally only salt. Dr. EatclifTs Eestorative Pork-jelly.—Take a leg of weU-fed pork, just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. Set it . over a gentle fire, with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. Let half an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmegs, stew in it. . Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Give a ■ chocolate cup the first and last thing, and at noon, putting salt to ■ taste. Shank Jelly.—Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a saucepan u ith three blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica, and thirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread : made very brown by toasting. Pour three quarts of water to them, and set them on a hot hearth close-covered; let them sim- mer as gently as possible for five hours, then strain it 02^", and put it in a cold place. This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if approved, for flavour. It is a remarkablj^ good thing for people who are weak. Arrow-root Jelly.— Of this beware of having the wrong sort, for it has been counterfeited with bad effect. If genuine, it is very nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put into a saucepan half a pint of water, a glass of sherry, or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar; boil once up, then mix by degrees into a dessert-spoonful of aiTOw-root, previously rubbed smooth, with two spoonfuls of cold water; then retium the whole into the saucepan ; stir and boil it three minutes. Tapioca Jelly.—Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wa.sh it two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or six hours, and simmer it in the same until it become quite clear ; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. Gloucester Jelly.—Take rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn shavings, and eringo-root, each an ounce ; simmer with three pints of water to one, and strain it. When cold it will be a jelly ; of which give, dis.solvcd in wine, milk, or broth, in change with other nourishment. Panada,made in five minutes. -Seta little water on the fire with a glas.s of white wine, some sugar, aiid a scrape of nutmeg and lernon-pcel; meanwhile grate .some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils uj), keeping it still on (he fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil a.s fa.st as it can. AVhen of a proper thickrjess just to drink, take it off.