VEAL OLIVES—VEAL CAX2S—SCOTCH COLLOPS, 63 then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Eeep the fricandeau quite hot, aud then glaze it; aud serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel •sauce in a sauce tureen. A Cheaper, hut equally good Fricandeau of Veal.— ''With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a lar^c neck from tlie best end, scooping it from the bones the length of your hand, and pre- -pare it tne same way as in the last receipt: three or four bones .only will be necessary, and they will make the gravy; but if the ; prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. Fricandeau another way.—Take two large round sweet- breads, and prepare them as you would veal; make a rich gravy with truffles, morels, mushrooms, and artichoke-bottoms, and .•serve it round. Veal Olives.—Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them ! thin shces of fat bacon, and over these a lajTr of forcemeat sea- : Boned high, with some shred shalot and Cayenne. Eoll them tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches long; fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg over them, and fry of a fight brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some muslmooms, pickled or fresh. Garnish wfith balls fried. Veal Cake.—BoU six or eight eggs hard; cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot; shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, and then eggs again; shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is fuU. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould: and then it will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. Veal Sausages.—Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few ancho- vies. Beat all in a mortar: and when used roll and fry it, and serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or on white collops. Scotch Collops.—Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, and rather round ; beat with a rolling pin, and grate a little nutmeg over them ; dip into the yolk of an egg; and fry them in a little butter of a fine brown ; pour the butter off, and have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gi’avy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, two large spoonfuls of ci’cnm, and a bit of salt- Do not boil the sauce, but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with the collops. To Boil Calf’.s Head.—Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white ; take out the tongue to salt, anfl the brain.s to make a little dish. Boil the hcarl c.xlremely tender ; then strew it over with crumbs and cho|)pcil parsley, and brown them ; or, if liked better, leave one side plain. Hervo bacon and greens to cat with it.