EAMAKINS—rOTTED CHEESE—WELSH BABBIT. 152 latter is best), or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepper, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Make some butter boil in a small frying-pan, and pour the above batter into it; when one side is of a fine yellow-brown, turn it and do the other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, is a very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a prett.y sized omelet; but many cooks will use eight or ten. A small proportion of flour should be used. If the taste be approved, a little tarragon gives a fine flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. Famakius and omelet, though usually served in the course, would be much better if they were sent up after, that they might be eaten as hot as possible. But'ter to serve as a little dish.—Foil butter in different forms ; either like a pine and make the marks with a tea-spoon, or rolling it in crimping rollers, work it through a colander, or scoop with a tea-spoon, and mix with grated beef, tongue, or an- chovies. Make a wreath of curled parsley to garnish. Eamakins.—Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and ditto of Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh butter; then beat all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of a small French roll boiled in cream till soft; mix the paste with the whites of the eggs previously beaten, and put into small paper pans made rather long than square, and bake in a Dutch oven till of a fine brown. They should be eaten quite hot. Some like the addition of a glass of white wine.—The batter for ramakius is equally good over macaroni when boiled tender; or on stewed brocoli, celery, or cauliflower, a little of the gravy they have been stewed in being put in the dish with them, but not enough to make the vegetable sw im. Potted Cheese.—Cut and pound four ounces of Cheshire cheese, one ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of white pounded sugar, a little bit of mace, and a glass of white wine. Press it down in a deep pot. Roast Cheese to come up after Dinner.—Grate three ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter; beat the whole w'ell in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them into a Dutch oven covered with a dish, till hot through, remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. Melted Cheese.—Take two ounces of good Cheshire, and two ditto ot Parmesan cheese, grate them, and add about double the weight of each in beaten yolks of eggs and melted butter, mix them well together, add pepper and salt to your taste, and then put to it the white of the eggs, w hich have been beaten separately; stir them lightly in, and bake it in a deep dish, filled but half full, as it will rise very much. Serve when quite hot. , ., Welsh Rabbit.—Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay