HADDOCK—PIEE—SOIES. 29 :gla53 of sherry. Give it a boil; and serve in a boat, and the fish * in the paper cases. To Dress Pipers.—Boil, or bake them with a pudding well •seasoned. If baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish; iand when done, take that, some essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them up together for sauce. To Bake Pike.—Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff’it with the following: grated bread, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; mis aU over the fire till it thickens, then put it in the •fish, and sew it up; butter should be put over it in little bits ; bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. yoie.—If in helping a pike, the back and belly are slit, and each slice gently drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given. HADDOCK.—Bod; or broil with stuffing, as under, having i salted them a day. To Dry Haddock.—Choose them of two or three pounds weight: take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blo^ from the backbone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night; then hang ■ them up in a dry place, and after three or four days, they will be fit to eat; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with egg-sauce. Whitings, if large, are excellent this way ; and it will prove an accommodation in the country where there is no regular supply of fish. Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and Small Cod.—Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury ; a little onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram shred fine; an anchovy or two; a little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be an improvement with or with- out anchovies ; add crumbs, and an egg to bind. SOLES.—If boiled, they must be served with great care to look perfectly white, and should be much covered with parsley. If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine crumbs of bread ; set on a frying-pan that is just largo enough, and put into it a large quantity of fresh lard or dripping, boil it, and immediately slip the fish into it; do them of a fine brown. Sec to fry, page 28. Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vinegar, salt, and mu.stard. Stewed Soles.—Do as Carp, page 27. Soles another way.—'Dikc two or three soles, divide them from the backbone, and take off the henfl, fins, and tail. S])rinklc the inside with salt, roll them up tight from tlie fail end upwards, and fa.sten with small skewers. If large or middling, put lialf a fish in each roll -. small flo not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more cnimbs ; and fry them a beatitiful colour in lard, or for fsst-day in elanficfl butt<T.