A. CARMEL COVER FOR SWEETMEATS. 146 into tlie yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the whole into a quart of very good cream, and set it over the fire : stir it till hot, but not boiling hot; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruits. Many people prefer it without any flavour but that of the cream; in which case use a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it as the Devonshire scalded cream. "When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they caU the ring; and Avhen that is seen, remove the pan from the lire. A Froth to set on Cream, Custard, or Trifle, which looks and eats well.—Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp up with them until it wiU stand as high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c., with a spoon, it will take any form; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. A Carmel Cover for Sweetmeats.—Dissolve eight ounces of double-refined sugar in three or four spoonfuls of v atcr, and three or four drops of lemon-juice; then put it into a copper untinned skillet; M hen it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that in a pint basin of wmter, squ .^zc the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when cold, it is done enough; but only let it be three parts cold; then pour the water from the sugar, and haviug a copper form well oiled, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may Eut it on the dish it is to cover; but if, on trial, the sugar is not rittle, pour olT the water, and return it into the skillet and boil it again. It should look thick, like treacle, but of a bright light gold colour. It is a most elegant cover. Calf’s Feet Jelly.—Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted; strain it; when cold take ofl’the fat, and remove the jelly from the sedi- ment ; then put it into a saucepan, with sugar, raisin wine, lemon- juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. When the flavour is rich, put it to the whites of five eggs well beaten and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to v arm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head ; then pour it through a flannel jelly bag, first dipping the bag into hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Rub the jelly through and through till clear; then put it into glasses or forms. The following mode will greatly facilitate the clearing 9f jelly : When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea- cupful of cold water : let it boil five minutes longer ; then take the saucepan off the fire eovered close, and keep it half an hour; after which it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much w*aste will be saved. Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the people who