207 AX F.XCKLLKXT SOUP FOP Tnu V/EAKLY. enter into it, she would never wash away, as useless, the peas or prits of wbioli soup or pruel had been made; broken potatoes, the preen heads of celery, the necks and feet of fowls, and particularly the shanks of mutton, and various other articles which in preparing dinner for the family are thrown aside. Fish aflbrds great nourishment, and that not by the part eaten only, but the bones, heads, and fins, which contain isinglass. AVhen the fish is served, let the cook put b}' some of the water, and ftew in it the above; as likewise add the gravj- that is in the dish, until she obtain all the goodness. If to be eaten by itself, when it makes a delightful broth, she should add a very small bit of onion, some pepper, and a little rice flour rubbed down smooth with it. But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the meat soup, particularly for the sick ; and when such are to be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones and meat should be used for them, with little, if any, of the liq^uor of the salt meats. The fat should not be taken ofl the broth or soup, as the poor like it, and are noiirished by it. An excellent Soup for ttie Weakly.—Put two cow-heels, and a breast of mutton, into a large pan, with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Jamaica peppers, and twenty black, a turnip, a carrot, and four gallons of water; cover with brown paper, and bake six hours. Sago.—Put a tea-cupful of sago into a quart of water, and a bit of lemon peel; when thickened, grate some ginger, and add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar and two spoonfuls of Geneva; boil all up together. It is a most supporting thing for those whom disease has left very feeble. Caudle for the Sick and. Lying-in.—Set three quarts of water on the fire ; mix smooth as much oatmeal as will thicken the whole, with a pint of cold water; when boiling pour the latter in, and twenty Jamaica peppers in fine powder; boil to a good middling thickness ; then aacl sugar, half a pint of well-fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be of incalcu- lable service. There is not a better occasion for charitable commiseration than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding sent unexpet'tedly has often been the means of recalling long-lost appetite. A or arc the indigent alone the grateful receivers; for in the highest houses a real good sick cook is rarely met witli; and many who possess all the goods of fortune have attributed the first return of health to ar appetite excited by good kitchen physic, as it is called. 0