8 MISCELLANEOUS OBSEETATIONS. even to their future disquiet. Some thintrs are better for beeping:, and, being: in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly; such as paper, soap, and caudles. Of these more hereafter. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted; for people ought to form their conduct on their circumstances, but it is jmesumed that a judicious arrangement according to them will be found equally advantageous to all. The minutiae of management must be regulated by every one’s fortune and rank; and some ladies, not deficient in either, charge themselves with giving out, once in a month, to a sui)erintemling servant, such quantities of household articles, as by observation and calculation they know to be suffi- cient, re.serving for their own key the large stock of things usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, and vice versa. iSuch a degree of judgment will be respectable evim in the eye of domestics, if they are not interested in the ignorance of their employers ; and if they are, their services will not com])ensate for want of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own niaids in the cajiacity of house-keepers ; who, as they may be more attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable ser- vants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be as useful as the cookery ; and it is recommended to be strictly ob- seiwant of both, wdiich in the course of time will make them familiar in the ])ractice. It is much to bo feared, that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mis- tress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strict account. Some part of every person’s fortune should be devoted to charity; by which “ a ])ious woman will build up her house before God, while she that is foolish (f.e. lends nothing to the Lord), pulls it down with her hands.” No one can complain of the want of gifts to the poor in this land : but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from super- fluity, and such mateiials as are often thrown awaj', tlie e.xpense M’ouid not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for preparing the above are given. By good hours, especially early breakfast, a familj’ is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to e.xecute them ; and servants by doing their work with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be necessary. It is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduced, and much time saved, if everything be kept m its proper jdace, ap- plied to its proper use, and mended, ■when the nature of the acci- dent will allow, as soon as broken. If the economy of time was duly considered, the useful afl'airs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of em])loynient was daily laid dowm, a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue; and it would be a most pleasant retro- Bpect at the end of the year, were it possible to enumerate ell the