MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR THE USE OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. ♦ lx every rank, those deserve the Greatest praise, who best acquit themselves of the duties which their station requires. Indeed, this line of conduct is not a matter of choice hut of necessity, if we would maintain the dignity of our character as rational beings. In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic occupa- tions stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, yet, when neglected, they produce much human misery. Therewas a time when ladies knew nothing heyond their own family concerns ; but, in the present day, there are many who know nothing them. Each of those extremes should be avoided : but is there no way to unite in the female character cultivation of talents and habits of usefulness ? Happily there are still great numbers in every situation whose e.xample proves that this is possible. Instances may be found of ladies in the hiuher walks of life, who condescend to examine the accounts of their house-steward; and, by overlooking and wisely dir< ctin? the exfiC-nditure of that part of their husband’s income, which falls under their own immediate inspection, avoid the incon- venienc'.-s of embarrassed circumstances. How much more neces- sary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on their attention considerations of the strictest economy ! There ought to be a material difference in the degree of carewhich a person of a large and independent estate bestows on money con- cerns, and that of a person in confined circumstances: yet both may very cornrnendably employ some portion of their time and thought.s on this subject. I'he custom of the times tends in some rneasure to aly^lish the distinetions of rank ; and the education given to young people is nearly the same in all : but thougli the leisure of the highr-r may be well devoted to elegant accomiilish- ments, the pursuits of those- in a middle- lino, if less ornann-ntiil,' w-vild b-:tter seeure tlo-ir own lia[»piness and that of others eon- neetcd with them. We sometimes bring up children in a nianm-r c 1-ulaPyl r if her to tit tli'-m i'or the station wo wish, than tliat v. !;-.' h it is likely th'-y will actually possi-ss : and it is in ,Tll cases w-uth the while of parents to consider wln-llier tie- e.\pei-t,ition or hope of rai.ing their otl'.spring above their own situaliou he well founded.