PEA FOWL —GUINEA HENS—PIOKON8. 196 put three pepper-coras down their throat. Great care is neces- sary to their well-being, because the hen is so careless that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Turkeys are violent eaters, and must therefore be left to take charge of themselves in general, except one good feed a day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirty days ; and the young ones must be kept warm, as the least cold or damp kills them. They must be fed often, and at a distance from the hen, who will eat everything from them. They should have curds, green-cheese parings cut small, and bread and milk with chopped wormwood in it; and their drink milk and water, but not left to be sour. All young fowls are a prey for vermin, there- fore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come; weasels, stoats, ferrets, &c., creep in at very small crevices. Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed to the sun, for the first three or four weeks; and the young should not be suflered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enough to put under a turkey, and when she is about to lay, lock her up till she has laid every morning. They usually begin to lay in March, and sit in April. Feed them near the hen- house; and give them a little meat in the evening, to accustom them to roosting there. Fatten them with sodden oats or barley for the first fortnight; and the last fortnight give them as above, and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire, twice a day. The flesh will be beautifully white and fine flavoured. The common way is to cram them ; but they are so ravenous that it seems unne- cessary, if they are not suflered to go far from home, which makes them poor. Pea Fowl.—Feed them as you do turkeys. They are so shy that they are seldom found for some days after hatching; and it is very wrong to pursue them, as many ignorant people do, in the idea of bringing them home; for it only causes the hen to carry the young ones through dangerous places, and by hurrying she treads upon them. The cock kills all the young chickens he can get at, by one blow on the centre of the head with his bill; and he does the same by his own brood before the feathers of the crown come out. Nature therefore impels the hen to keep them out of his way till the feathei’s rise. Guinea Hens lay a great number of eggs ; and if you can discover the nest it is best to put them under common hens, which are better nurses. They require great warmth, quiet, and careful feeding with rice swelled with milk, or bread soaked in it. Put two peppercorns down their throat when first hatched. Pigeons bring two young ones at a time, and breed every month, if well looked after and plentifully fed. They should be kept very clean, and the bottom of the dovecote be strewed with sand, once a month at least. Tares, beans, and peas, are their proper food. They should have plenty of fresh water in their house. Starlings and other birds are apt to come among them, and suck the eggs. Vermin likewise are their great enemies, and