TO 1‘HESEKVE EllUITS EOE WINTEIl USE. pint a pound and a lialf of sugar, the finest double-refined, pounded and sifted tbrougb a lawn sieve, wbicb must be covered with a fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugar and juice together three hours and a half if a large quantitj^ but two and a half for less ; then drop it on sheets of thick white paper, the size of the drops sold in the shops. Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is necessary. To know if there be enough, mix till well incorporated, and then drop; if it run, there is not enough sugar, and if there is too much it will be rough. A dry room will sulBce to dry them. No metal must touch the juice but the point of a knife, just to take the drop ofi" the erd of a wooden spoon, and then as little as possible. Ginger Drops; a good Stomachic.—Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar, to a paste; then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger with one pound of loaf-sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil altogether to a candy, and drop it on paper the size of mint drops. Peppermint Drops.—Pound and sift four ounces of double- refined sugar, beat it with the whites of two eggs till perfectly smooth ; then add sixty drops of oil of peppermint, beat it well, and drop on white pawr, and dry at a distance from the fire. Ratafia Drops.—Blanch and beat in a mortar four ounces of bitter, and two of sweet almonds, with a little of a pound of sugar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar, and the whites of two eggs, malting a paste ; of which put little balls, the size of a nut- n)eg, on wafer-paper, and bake gently on tin-plates. Raspberry Cakes.—Pick out any bad raspberries that are among the fruit, weigh and boil w hat quantity you please, and when mashed, and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit you first put into the pan, mix it well oj^the fire until perfectly dissolved, then put it on china-plates, and dry it in the sun. As soon as the top part dries, cut, with the cover of a canister, into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates, and, when drv, put them in boxes with layers of paper. TO PRESERVE FRUITS FOR WINTER USE.— Observations on Sweetmeats.—Sweetmeats should be kept carefully from the air, and in a very dry place. Unless they have a very small proportion of sugar, a wa»m one does not hurt; but when not properly boiled, that is, long enough, but not quick, heat makes them ferment; and damp causes them to grow mouldy. They should be looked at two or three times in the first two months, that they may be gently boiled again, if not likely to keep. It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar, more or less, constitutes the principal art of the confectioner, and those ■R ho are not practised in this knowledge, and only preserve in a plain way for family use, are not aware that, in two or three minutes, a syrup over the fire vill pass from one gradation to another, called by the coufeclioners degrees of boiling, of which there are six, and those subdivided. But I am not versed in the miuutia;, and only make the observation to guard against under-