172 X POUND CAKE—SEED CAKE—BEEAD CAKE. return it to tlie oven for fifteen minutes ; but if tbe oven be very TTarm, keep it near the mouth, and the door open, lest the colour be spoiled. Another.—Flour dried, and currants washed and picked, four pounds; sugar pounded and sifted, one pound and a half; six orange, lemon, and citron-peels, cut in slices : mix tliese. Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately; then melt a pound and a half of butter in a pint of cream ; when lukewarm, put it to half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a pint of sweet wine, and the eggs; then strain the liquid to the dry ingredients, beat them well, and add of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an ounce each. Butter the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three hours will bake it. Very good common Plum Cakes.—Mix five ounces of butter in three pounds of dry flour, and five ounces of fine Lisbon sugar; then add six ounces of currants, washed and dried, and some pimento finely powdered. Put three spoonfuls of yeast into a Winchester pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light dough with the above. Make it into twelve cakes, and bake on a floured tin half an hour. Little Plum Cakes, to keep long.—Dry one pound of flour, and mix six ounces of finely-pounded sugar; beat six ounces of butter to a cream, and add to three eggs, well beaten, half a pound of currants, washed and nicely dried, and the flour and sugar; beat all for some time, then dredge flour on tin-plates, and drop the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed, it will be a stiflT paste. Bake in a brisk oven. A good Pound Cake.—Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. Have ready warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same of sifted sugar, mix them and a few’^ cloves, a little nutmeg and cinna- mon in fine powder together; then by degrees work up all the dry ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well beaten, add a glass of wine and some caraways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the butter, and the -same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to most tastes a more pleasant one. A cheap Seed Cake.—Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little ginger ; melt three quarters of a pound of butter, with half a pint of milk; when just warm, put to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minutes before it goes to the oven; add seeds, or currants, and bake an hour and a half. Another.— Mix a pound and a half of flour, and a pound of common lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten separately, an ounce of seeds, two spoonfuls of yeast, and the same of milk and water. Note.—Milk alone causes cake and bread soon to dry. Common Bread Cake.—Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well