PICKLED LEMONS—PICKLED CUCUMBEES. 137 j -wasting, with pepper, salt, ginger, and pour boiling hot over the I mangoes four successive days ; the last, put flour of mustard and : scraped hoi-se-radish into the vinegar just as it boils up. Stop ! close. Observe that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are : -spoiled if not well covered. Mangoes shoidd be done soon after ' tthey are gathered. Large cucumbers, called Green Turley, pre- i -.pared as mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating. I Mark, the greater number of times boiling vinegar is poured ! over either sort, the sooner it will be ready, i Pickled Lemons.—They should be small and with thick i nrinds; rub them with a piece of flannel, then slit them half down .in four quarters, but not through to the pulp: fill the slits with : -salt hard pressed in, set them upright in a pan for four or five I jdays until the salt melts, turn them thrice a day in their own I iliquid until tender, make enough pickle to cover them of rape I -vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger; !: ;boil and skim it; when cold put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. When * -.the lemons are used, the pickle will be useful in fish or other i -sauces. Olives are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and Trench, of dif- i iferent sizes and flavour; each sort should be fii’m, though some sare most fleshy. Preserve them from the air. ! Pickled Onions.—In the month of September, choose the : 'Small while round onions, take off the brown skin, have a very . mice tin stew-pan of boiling water ready, throw in as many onions as will cover the top ; as soon as they look clear on the outside, i ‘take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and lay them on a clean cloth; cover them close with another, and scald more, and ■80 on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in ajar, or glass, or wide-mouth bottles, and pour over them the best white wine I 'vinegar, just hot but not boiling. When cold cover them ; I -ahould the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite I clear. 1 To Pickle Cucumbers and Onions Sliced.—Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them; next day drain them for ' five or six hours ; then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling [ vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. The slices should be thick. Kepeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them I up again instantly; and so on till green ; the last time put pepper and ginger. Keep in small stone jars. To Pickle young Cucumbers.—Choose young gherkins, spread them ori dishes, salt them, and let tiiem lie a week ; drain them, and putting them in ajar, pour boiling vinegar over them. < Set them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine leaves; if » they do not become a UJerable good green, i)oiir the vinegar into t another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and wlicn it boils j)f)ur it y over them again, covering with fresii leaves ; and tliu.s do till thej are of a.s good a colour as you wish : but a.s it is now known that I* the very fine green pickles are made so by using brass or bell- L