S4 HASHED calf’s HEAD—CALF’s HEAD FRICASSEED, The brains must be boiled; and then mixed with melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper, and salt. If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a few slices of bacon, just wai-med and put round. Cold calf’s head eats well if grilled. To Hash Calf’s Head.—When half-boiled, cut off the meat in slices, half an inch thick, and two or three inches long: brown some butter, flour, and sliced onions, and throw in the slices witli some good gravy, truffles, and morels; give it one boil, skim it well, and set it in a moderate heat to simmer till very tender. Season with pepper, salt, and Ca3mnne, at first; and ten minutes before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possible; just before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat-balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. Another way.—Boil the head till done, and take the meat of the best side neatly off the bone w ith a sharp knife; lay this into a small dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nutmeg, all mixed together first. Set the dish before the lire, and keep turning it now' and then, that all parts of the head may be equally browm. In the meantime slice the remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue : put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of herbs (consisting of parsley, basil, savoury, tarragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thymfe), a little salt and Cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor. Boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged with some flour. Add some mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup ; then beat up half the brains, and put this to the rest with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Then fry it in little cakes of a beautiful yellow brown. Dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and do the same; and also some relishing force- meat-balls made as for mock turtle. Garnish with these, and small bits of bacon just made hot before the lire. Calf’s Head Fricasseed.—Clean and half-boil a head ; cut the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of sw'eet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If jmu have any .young cockrels in the house, use the cockscombs ; but first boil them tender and blanch them; or a sweetbread will do as w'ell. Season the gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down some flour and butter, and give all a boil together; then take out the herbs iind onion, and add a little cup of cream, but do not boil it in. Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. To Collar a Calf’s Head.—Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove tlie bones; then have pcady a good quantity of chopped