170 ICEIXG FOK CAKES—AN EXCELLENT CAKE. cularly careful tliat no mistake occur from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. Iceing for Cakes.—For a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar; put into a mortar with four spoonfuls of rose-water and tlie whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, wliisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the ice- ing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden, but do not let it stay to discolour. Put the cake into a dry place. To Ice a very large Cake. — Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs ; then, by degrees, beat a pound of double-refined sugar sifted through a lawn sieve; mix these well in a deep earthen pan, add orange-fiower water and a piece of fresh lemon peel of the former, enough to flavour, and no more. Wliisk it for three hours, till the mixture is thick and white; then with a thin broad bit of board spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. A Common Cake.—Mix three quarters of a pound of flour with half a pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half an ounce of caraways, and a glass of raisin wine. Beat it well, and bake in a quick oven. Use fine Lisbon sugar. Avery good Common Cake.—Eub eight ounces of butter into two pounds of dried flour; mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast that is not bitter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a half, then mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart, one pound of sugar, some milk to make it a proper thickness (about a pint will be sufficient), a glass of sweet wine, the rind of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of ginger. Add either a pound of currants, or some caraways, and beat well. An exceilent Cake.—Eub two pounds of dry fine flour with one of butter, washed in plain I’ose-water, and mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast in a little warm milk and water. Set it to rise an hour and a half before the Are, then beat into it two pounds of currants, one pound of sugar sifted, four ounces of almonds, six ounces of stoned raisins chopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as possible, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A quick oven. A very fine Cake.—Wash two pounds and a half of fresh butter in wafer first, and then in rose-water; beat the butter to a cream; beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the finest flour, well dried and kept hot, likewise a pound and a half of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice in finest powder, three pounds of currants nicely cleaned and dried, half a pound of almonds blanched, and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats- cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire ; mix all the dry ingredients; pour the eggs strained to the butter ; mix half a pint , of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the butter ^ and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees, ' beat them very thoroughly, you can hardly do it too much,.