23 TO CHOOSE FISH. towns wash it beyond what is necessary for cleaning, and by per- p>etual watering tliminish the flavour. When quite clean, if to bo boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water to give flrmness, but Cod, Whiting, and Haddock are far better if a httle salted, and kept a day; and if not very hot weather, they ffill be good two days. Those who know how to purchase fish, may, by taking more at a time than they want for one day, often get it cheap ; and such i kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried will serve for stewing the next day, : may then be bought with advantage. Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste, to take off which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same ; then diy and dress it. The fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to do verj’ gentlj', or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimp fish should be put into boiling water; and when it boils up, pour a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer it a few minutes. The fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn up to see if it be ready; it will leave the bone when it is. It should then be im- mediately taken out of the water, or it will soon be wool^^ The fish-plate should be set crosswise over the kettle, to keep hot for sen'ing; and a clean cloth to cover the fish to prevent it losing its colour. •Small fish nicely fried, covered with eggs and crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain. Great attention should be paid to garnishing fish; use plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. The liver and roc should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them, and help a part to every one. If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt in a nice soft cloth after it is well cleaned and washed. When perfectly dry, wet with an etrg if for flying, and sprinkle tlie finest crumbs of bread over it; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the fish will look much better ; then, having a thick-bottomed frying- pan on tlic fire, with a large finaritity of lard or dripping boiling not, plunge the fish into it, and let it fr^ niiddlingly (iiiick, till tho colour is a fine brown vellow, and it is judged ready. 1 f it is done eiiough before it has ontairicfl a projier deitrei! of colour, tho cook should firaw the pan to the side of the (in- ; carefully lake it u|), anfl either place it on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that purpose only, or on the under side id'a tlisli to drain ; and if wantecl very nice, a sluret fd'cap paper must be put to receive the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and all the crumbs appear rlistinct; the fish being free frmii all grease. 'I'he same dripping, with a little fresh, w ill serve a second time. JJuttergives