SOrP A-LA-S.VP—PORTABLE SOUP—SOEP MAIGRE. 89 Simmer them wntlioiit the meat till the vegetables are done enough to pulp witli the peas through a sieve, and the soup u ill then be about the thickness of cream. Season it with pepper, salt, mace, allspice, a clove or two, and a little Cayenne, all in line powder. If the peas are bad, the soup may not be thick enough; then boil in it a slice of roU, and pnt it through the colander, or add a little rice-flour, mixing it by degrees. For the Ragout cut the nicest part of the head, the kernels, and part of the fat of the root of the tongue into small thick pieces. Hub these with some of the above seasoning as jmu pnt them into a quart of the liquor, kept out for that purpose before the vege- tables were added, flour well, and simmer them nicely till tender. Then put a little mushroom and walnut ketchup, a little soy, a glass of port wine, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and boil all up together before served. If for company, small eggs and forcemeat balls. This way furnishes an excellent soup and a ragout at a small expense, and they are not common. The other part will warm for the family. Soup a-la-Sap.—Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and three ounces of rice in six pints of water to five, strain it through a co- lander, then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a saucepan again with two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and add pej)per and salt, and when you serve add also fried bread. Portable Soup.—Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins of beef, and three pounds of beef in as much water only as will cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones, put any sort of spice you like, and three large onions. When the meat is done to rags strain it off, and put it into a very cold place. When cold, take off the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants’ pies), put the soup into a double-bottomed tin saucepan, and set it on a pretty quick fire, but do not let it burn. It must boil fost and uncovered, and be stirred constantly, for eight hours. Put it into a pan and let it stand in a cold place a day; then pour it into a round china soup-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boil- ing water on a stove and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy, then it is done enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basins turned upside down to form cakes, and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they arc to be used, melt them in boiling water, and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or an^'thing else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt the soup in it. This IS verj' convenient in the country, or at sea, where fresh meat is not always at hand, as by this means a basin of soup may be rna^lc in five minutes. Soup MaiCTO.—Melt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shako the pan well for two or three minutes, then put to it live heads of oelciy, two handfuls of spinach, two cabbage-lettuces cut small,