MISCELLANEOUS OBSERYATIONS. 6 who placed her on earth to fulfil such sacred obligations, not to waste the talents committed to her charge. When it is thus evident that the highest intellectual attainments may rind exercise in the multifarious occupations of the daughter, the’wife, the mother, and the mistress of the house, can any one urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic employ ? It is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life are within the reach of humbler abilities, and that she wdiose chief aim is to fulfil them, will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United with, and perhaps crowning all the virtuesof the female character, is that well-directed ductility of mind, which occasionally bends its attention to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater. Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure, respectabi- lity of appearance, and the comfort of her husband and those w'ho partake their hospitalitJ^ The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not the multiplicity of things, but the choice, the dressing, and the neat pleasing look of the whole, which gives respectability to her who prc?;ides. Too much, or too little dinners are extremes not uncom- mon : the latter i- in appearance and reality the effort of poverty or penuriousn> ss to be genteel; and the former, if constantly given, may endanger the circumstances of those who are not afllueiit. Generally speaking, dinners are far less sumptuous than for- merly, when half a dozen dishes were supplied for what one now costs ; consequently those whose fortunes are not great, and who wi.ffi to make a genteel appearance, without extravagance, regulate their table aeeordinaly. Perhaps there arc f< w incidents in which the respectability of a man is more immediately felt, than the style of dinner to which he accidf n^aily may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as he can atiord, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the entertiinments of the higher classes; but, if two or throe di>lies are mil s rved, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, tlie small sideU;ard neatly 1 lid, and all that is necessary he at liand, the ex- pectation of trie husband and iriend will be gratilied, because no irr* ruiaiPy of domestic arrane’em'Tit will disturb the sodal intcr- cour-'c. 1 he same observation holds good on a larger scale. In all situations ot lite, tho 'Titr-rfainment sliouhl lie no less suiled to the station, than to the f<irturie of \.\n: entertainer [xiiA to the number ai.rl rat.k f»f those invit< rl. J ho mann»T ot carving is now not only a very necessary branch of inform ition. to (•nahh- a lady tr> do the honours of her table, but makes a consirT rilde difh.rener; in Ihi; con-um()t ion of a family; ftral th'nzli in large [larties sin; is so rnnrdi assisted as to render this knowl'fl/(; aigiarently of hss consequi nee, yet sin' must at times t-el tin: <1< tifhnney ; and shonhl not tail to aerpiaint In t'-ell with an attainrrn-nf, the afivantage of which is evident eveiy (lay. Inde-e'!, as I iihioris are so th.-eling, it is more than [irrdiahle, that bet'.re toe end of this century, gn at alt«ntion to guests may ho again the mode, as it was in the commenc' ineut of the lust. Eomo