12 MISCELLA.?rEOtrs 0BSEEVATI0N8. Put it on a shelf, leaving: a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption. Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice sliould be pared first to preserve the peel dry; some should be halved, and when squeezed, the pulp cutout, and the outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best. When these fruits are cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and prepared as above directed, especially by those who live in the country, where they cannot always be had ; and they are perpetually wanted in cookery. When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other purposes, con- trive to have pudding, custard, &c. to employ the yolks also. Should you not want them for several hours, beat them up with a little water, and put them in a cool place, or they will be hardened and useless. It was a mistake of old, to think that the whites made cakes and puddings lieavy; on the contrary, if beaten long and separately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advan- tage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in cream, &e. If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off; and to have them fresh done when the least defect appears, and never to put by any soup, gravy, &c. in them, or any metal utensil; stone and earthen vessels should be provided for those purposes, as like- wise plenty of common dishes, that the table set may be used to put by cold meat. Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which causes holes Fen- ders, and tin linings of ffower-pots, &c., should be painted every year or two. Vegetables soon sour and corrode metals, and glazed red ware, by which a strong poison is produced. Some years ago, the death of several gentlemen was occasioned by the cook sending a ragout to table, which she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel badly tinned. Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead or arsenic. To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in the sun; renew the process once or twice. The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a stone jar on a hot iron hearth ; or by putting the vessel into a saucepan of water, called a water-bath. If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, &c., be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost. The cook should be encouraged to be carefiilof coals and cinders ; for the latter there is a new contrivance to sift, without dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin bucket. Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire for the back, but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly wet, give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and ovens.