178 EOLLS—MUFFINS—YORKSHIKH CAKES. out, and in tlie sediment will be seen the ingredients which have been mixed. The alum will be dissolved in the water, and may be extracted from it. If jalap has been used, it will form a thick film at top, and the heavy ingredients will sink to the bottom. Excellont Rolls.—Warm one ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, put to it a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour, knead it well, make into seven rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and buttered, they resemble Sally Lunns, as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupfhl of milk, makes them remarkably good. rrench Rolls.—Bub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour; mix one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk as will make the dough of a middling stiffness. Beat it well, but do not knead; let it rise and bake on tins. Brentford Rolls.—Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pint of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire to rise, till they become of a proper size; then bake half an hour. Potato Rolls.—Boil three pounds of potatoes, bruise and work them with two ounces of butter, and as much milk as will make them pass through a colander. Take half or three quarters of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of warm water to mix with the potatoes; then pour the whole upon five pounds of flour, and add some salt. Knead it well: if not of a proper consistence, put a little more milk and water warm ; let it stand before the fire an hour to rise ; work it well, and make it into rolls. Bake about half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. They eat well toasted and buttered. Muffins.—Mix two pounds of flour with two eggs, two*ounces of butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonfuls of yeast; beat it thoroughly, and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake on a hot hearth in flat cakes. When done on one side turn them. Note.—Muffins, rolls, or bread, if stale, may be made to taste new, by dip- ping in cold water, and toasting, or heating in an oven, or Dutch oven, till the outside be crisp. Yorkshire Cakes.—Take two pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs ; beat all well together and let it rise; then knead it, and make into cakes; let them rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is a shorter sort; the last lighter. Hard Biscuits.—Warm two ounces of butter in as much