195 TEATUERS—DUCKS—GEESE. Etrgs may be bought cheapest when tlie heus first begin to lay m the spring, before the}' sit; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may be preserved fresh by dipping them in boiling water and' instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shell, either of which ways is to prevent the air passing through it; or kept on shelves with small holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other day ; or close packed in a keg, and covered with strong lime-water. Feathers.—In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, the feathers, which may occasionally come in small quantities, arc neglected; but orders should be given to put them into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper bags, a few in each; they should hang in a dry kitchen to season; fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or they wdl occasion a musty smell, but they should go through the same process. In a few months they wlU be fit to add to beds, or to make pillows, without the usual mode of drying them in a cool oven, which may be pursued if they are wanted before five or six months. Ducks generally begin to lay in the month of February. Their eges should be daily taken away except one, till they seem mclined to sit; then leave them, and see that there are enough. They require no attention while sitting, except to give them food at the time they come out to seek it; and there should be water Elaced at a moderate distance from them, that their eggs may not e spoiled by their long absence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen eggs are enough. In an early season it is best to put them under a hen ; and then they can be kept from water till they have a little strength to bear it. which in very cold weather they cannot do so well. They should be kept under cover, especially in a wet season; for thonah water is the natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be killed by the cramp before they are covered with feathers to defend them. Duck.s should be accustomed to feed and rest at one place, which would prevent their straggling too far to lay. Places near the water to lay in are advantageous, and these might be small wooden houses, with a partition in the middle, and door at each end. They eat anything, and when to be fattened must have plenty, however coarse, and in three weeks they will be fat. Geese require little expense, as they chiefly support them- selve-s, on commons or in lanes, where they can get water. The largest are esteemed best, as also are the white and grey. The pied and dark-coloured are not so good. Thirty days is generally the time the goose sits, but in warm weather she will sometimes hatch sooner. Give them plenty of food, such as scalded bran and light oats ; and as soon as the gosliiigs arc hatched, keep them housed for eieht or ten days, and feed them with barley- meal, bran, curds, &c. For green geese, begin to fatten them at six or seven weeks old, and feed them as above. Stubble geoso reqitire no fattening if they have the run of good fields. Turkeys are very tender M hen young. As soon as liatched.