I OBSEfiTATIOXS ON MAKING AND BAKING CAKKS. IG'j , ‘broken into largo lumps; stir it when melted, then put the jar ; .nto a saucenan of water, or on a hot hearth, let it simmer, and I bkim it. When cold, bottle it. I This is one of the most useful preparations that ran be kept in t I house, not only as atfording the most refreshing beverage, but j 'eing of singular efficacy in complaints of the chest. A large 1 poouful or two in a tumbler of water. Be carefid to use no I ; lazed nor metal vessel for it. The fruit, with an equal quantity of sugar, makes excellent I llaspberry Cakes, without boiling. C A IT £j S, BBiTjAD, &c# 1 Observations on Making and Baking Cakes. -CBfiANTs should be very nicely washed, dried in a cloth, and len set before the fire. If damp they will make cakes or pud- ^gs heavy. Before they are added,'a dust of dry flour should thrown among them, and a shake given to them, which causes ae thmg that they are put to to be lighter. Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks apart, and ■ways strained. 'Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted .trough a very fine hair or lawn sieve. lEemon peel should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar -•aten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little me, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingre- -ents. all the articles are put into the pan, they should be tho- .nghly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends nch on their being well incorporated. hether black or white plum-cakes, they require less butter cl egip for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the ;iv^ be only of flour, milk, water, and yeast, it beeoraes more ugh and is less easily divided than if the butter be first put with oae ingredients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the -e. IThe heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially oae that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter wdll not rise. . ould >ou tear its catching, by being too quick, put some paper er the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough fated to nave a body of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will heavy, lo know when it is soaked, take a broacl-bladed knife it IS very bright, and plunge into the very centre; draw it in- I nt y out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake imme- i .tely in, and shut up the oven. df the heat was sufficient Uj raise hut not to soak, I have with fr^h fuel quickly put in, and kojit tlie cakes hot til the oven was fit to finish the soaking, and tliey tiiriieil out t'rernely well. But those who are cmiiloycd ought to bo parti-