NEW COLLEGE PUDDINGS—BOILED BEEAD PUDDING. Ill cups buttered. If currants are chosen, a quarter of a pound is -sufficient, if not, they are good without; or you may put orange or lemon candy. Serve with pudding sauce. 'biddings in haste.—Shred suet, and put with grated bread, la few currants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, ssome grated lemon peel, and ginger. Mix, and make into /little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little diour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. Twenty minutes will boH them, but they will rise to the top when clone. Pudding sauce. New College Puddings.—Grate the crumb of a twopenny oaf, shred suet eight ounces, and mix with eight ounces of cur- rants, one of citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, Lialf a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separately. MLx, r.nd make into the size and shape of a goose-egg. Put half a pound if butter into a frying-pan, and when melted and quite hot, stew chem gently in it over a stove; turn them two or three times ill of a fine fight brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the butter. Serve with pudding-sauce. Boiled Bread Pudding.—Grate white bread, pour boiling :iilk over it, and cover close. When soaked an hour or two, beat :; fine, and mix it with two or three eggs well beaten. Put it into a basin that will just hold it; tie a floured cloth over r;, and put it into boding water. Send it up with melted butter oured over. It may be eaten with salt or sugar. Prunes, or French plums, make a fine pudding instead of laisins, either with suet or bread pudding. Another and Richer.—On half a pint of crumbs of bread Iour half a pint of scalding milk ; cover for an hour. Beat up our eggs, and when strained add to the bread, with a tea-spoonful T flour, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of irrants, an ounce of almonds beaten, with orange-flower water, •alf an ounce of orange-peel, and the same of lemon and citron, ■utter a ba.sin that will exactly hold it, flour the cloth, tie tight /er, and boil one hour. Brown Bread Pudding.—Half apound of stale brown bread rated, ditto of currants, ditto of shred suet, sugar, and nutmeg; ix with four eggs, a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonfuls of •earn ; boil in a cloth or basin that e.xactly holds it three or four mrs. Nelson Puddings.-—Put into a Dutch oven six small cakes died Nelson balls, or rice cakes made in small tea-c\ips. When litf: hot, pour over them boiling melted butter, white wine and ..gar; and .serve. ( Eye’s Pudding.—Grate three quarters of a pound of bread ; ix it with the same quantity of shred suet, the same of apples, d also of currant.s ; mix with these the whole of four eggs, and e rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it intoa shaiie ; boil three