187 OBSKUVATIOXS liKSPKCTlXG CITKKSK. pasture will tend to iucreaso it. People u lio attend properly to the dairy will feed the cows particularly well two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In geutlemen’s dairies more attention is paid to the size and beauty of the cows than to their produce, which dairymen look most to. For making cheese the cows should calve from Lady-Day to May, that the large quantit}- of milk may come into use about the same time; but in gentlemen’s families one or two should calve in August or September Jor a supply in winter. In good pastures, the average produce of a dairj* is about three gallons a day each cow from Lady-Day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christ- mas one gallon a day. Cows will be profitable milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. "When a calf is to be reared, it should be taken from the cow in a week at farthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the morning, and keep it without food till the next morning: and then, being hungiy, it will drink without dif- ficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice a day in such quantity as may be required. If milk runs short, smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At first, let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night, and morning. TThen the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportunity to provide for a good winter store: she should have a book to keep an account, or get some one to write down for her the produce of every week, and set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot will hold should be marked on each in making at the potterj". In another part of the book should be stated the poultry reared, in one leaf, and the weekly consumption in another part. Observations respecting Cheese.—This well-known ar- ticle differs according to the pasture in which the cows feed. Various modes of preparing may effect a great deal; and it will be bad or good of its kind, by being in unskilful hands or the contrarj'; but much will still depend on the former circumstance. The same land rarely makes very fine butter, and remarkably fine cheese ; but yet due care may give one pretty good, when the other excels in quality. When one is not as fine as the other, attention and change of method may amend tlie inferior. There is usually, however, too much prejudice in the minds of dairy people, to make them give up an old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for tlio eye of the superior. A gentleman has lieen at the expense of procuring cattle from every county noted for good cheese, and it IS affirmed that the Cheshire, double Gloucester, North Wilt- shire, Chedder, and many other sorts, arc so excellent as not to discredit their names. As the comh arc all on one estate, it should seem that the mode of making must be a principal cause of the difference in flavour : besides, there is much in the size and manner of keeping.