24 TO CHOOSE FISH. a bad colour; oil tries of the finest colour for those who will allow the expense, Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, which must be thus done : When washed and picked, throw h again into clean water ; wlien the lard or dripping boils, throw tho parsley into it immediately from the water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice; this may be done after the fish is fried. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and put on a gridiron that is very clean ; which, when hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very clear fire, that it may not taste smoky; and not too near, that it may not be scorched. TURBOT.—To Keep Turbot.—If necessary, turbot will keep for two or three days, and be in as high perfection as at first, if lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold place. To Boil Turbot.—The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size. and in the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil: bo very careful that there fall no blacks ; but skim it well, aud pi’eserve the beauty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy butter, and plain butter, served plentifully in sepai’ate tureens. SALMON.—To Boil Salmon.—Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out of the water as soon as done. Let the water be warm if the fish be split. If underdone, it is ver^^ un- wholesome. Serve with shrimp or anchovy sauce. To Broil Salmon.—Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered; twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. To Pot Salmon.—Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it; salt very well, let it lie tiU the salt is melted and drained from it, then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper ; lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with liutter, aud bake it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. To Dry Salmon.—Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Hub the whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang twenty-four hours to di’ain. Pound three or four ounces of salt- petre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two da3"s, then inib it well with common salt, and in twentj-four hours more it will be