L0B3XEE SALAD—TO DOIl, ETC., POTATOES. 133 .put in a few at a time, uot exceeding two or tliree inches long. iShake (hem in the seasoning, and then put more ; but cover the bowl close, and let the salad be prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley, and a few slices of •.the fat. Lobster Salad. —ilake a salad, and put some of the red part of the lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast to •the white and green of the vegetables. Do not put much oil, as •shell-fish absorb the sharpness of the vinegar. Serve in a dish, :not a bo'.vl. To Boil Potatoes.—Set them on a fire, without paring them, ' in cold water; let them half boil, then throw some salt in and a ipint of cold water, and let them boil again till almost done. Pom.’ off the water, and put a clean cloth over them, and then the sauce- 1 pan cover, and set them by the fire to steam till ready. Many [persons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin is : peeled, not cut. Do new potatoes the same; but be careful they are taken off in time, or they will be watery. Before dressing, rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, and then wash. To Broil Potatoes, — Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboU, and then set them whole on the gridiron over a very slow fire, and when thoroughly done send them up with their skins on. This last way is practised in many Irish families. To Roast Potatoes.—Half-boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them of a beautiful brown. To Pry Potatoes.—Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and fiy them, either in butter or thin batter. To Mash Potatoes. — BoU the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste ; then to two pounds of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it all well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner, or place them on the dish in a form, and then brown the top with a sala- mander, or in scallops. Carrots require a good deal of boiling. When young, wipe off the skin after they are boiled; when old, boil them with the salt meat, and sewape them first. To Ste'W Carrots.—Half-boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak broth, some pepper and salt, and half a cupful of cream ; simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving, rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm u[) with them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added, ten minutes before served. To Mash Parsnips.—Boil them tender, scrape, then ma.sh them into a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper and salt. Pricassoo of Parsnips.—Boil in milk till they are soft, then cut them lengthways into bits two or three inches long, and sim- mer in a white sauce made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of