TO PHESERTE FRUITS FOR TARTS OR FAMILY DESSERTS. 1.07 I -Keep it in small jars in a dry place. If toosM'eet, mix witliit some I of tlie fruit that is done without sugar. I Another way.—Choose stean pots, if 3'ou can get them, which I Aire of equal size top and bottom (the.y should hold eight or nine r pounds); put the fruit in about a quarter up, then strew in a 1 quarter of the sugar ; then another ipantity of fruit, and so till I of both are in. Tlie proportion of sugar is to be three pounds i to nine pounds of fruit. Set the jars in the oven, and bake the fruit quite through. When cold, put a piece of clean scraped stick ; into the middle of the jar, and let the upper part stand above the : 'top ; then put melted mutton suet over the top full half an inch I '.thick, having previousl.y covered the fruit with white paper. I -Keep the jars in a cool dyy place, and use the suet as a cover, "which you will draw up by the stick, minding to leave a httle iforked branch to it to prevent its slipping out. To Preserve Fruit for Tarts, or Family Desserts.— iCherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, gather when rripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound; strew over each jar sis ounces of good loaf-sugar pounded : cover with ’TWO bladders each, separatelj' tied do'.vn ; then set the jars in a barge stew-pan of water up to the neck, and let it boil three Llours gently. Keep these and aU other sorts of fruit free from clamp. To Keep Lemon Juice.—Buy the fruit when cheap, keep i't in a cool place two or three days, if too unripe to squeeze at once; cut the peel off some, and roll them under your hand to make them part with the juice more readily; others you may -eave unpared for grating, when the pulp shall be taken out and -iried. Squeeze the juice into a china basin ; then strain it hrough some muslin, which will not permit the least pulp to oass. Have readj’half and quarter-ounce phials perfectly dry ; ill them with the juice so near the top as only to admit half i. tea-.spoonful of sweet oil into each ; or a little more, If for arger bottles. Cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool )lace. hen you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bottle as you hall use in two or three days ; wind some clean cotton round a .kewer, and dipjiing it in, the oil -will be attracted; and when all hall be removed, the juice will be as fine as when first bottled. Hang the peels up till dry; then keep them from the dust. China Orange Juice. (A very useful thing to mix with Aatcrin Fevers, when the fresh .Juice cannot be procured).— ■Squeeze from the finest fruit a pint of juice strained through ine mu.slin, and gently simmer with three quarters of a pound of ; :ouble-refined sugar for twenty minutes ; when cold put it in small ■ottles. Different -ways of Dressing Cranberries.—For pics and uddings, with a good deal of sugar. Stew in a jar with the same; which way they eat well with Tread, and are very wholesome.