98 Axcnovr sauce—vingaeet—sualot vikegaii. butter melted as will be hereafter directed; then put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add a squeeze of lemon. Anotlier way.—Leave out the anchovies and gravy; and do it as above, either with or without a little salt and ketchup, as you like. Many prefer the flavour of the lobster and salt only. Shrimp Sauce.—If the shrimiDs are not picked at home, pour a little water over them to wash them ; put them to butter melted thick and smooth, give them one boil and add the juice of a lemon. Anchovy Sauce.—Chop two anchovies without washing, put them to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water; stir it over the fire till it boils once or twice. When the anchovies are good, they will be dissolved; and the colour wiU be better than by the \isual way. ' To Melt Butter, which is rarely well done, though, a very essential article.—Mix in the proportion of a tea- spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small saucepan, and two or three table-spoonfuls of hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water, requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. Vingaret, for Cold Fowl or Meat.—Chop mint, parsley, and slialot, and mix with salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve in a boat. Shalot Vinegar.—Split six or eight shalots ; put them into a quart bottle, and fill it up with vinegar, stop it, and in a month it will be fit for use. Camp Vinegar.—Slice a large head of garlic; and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle with half an ounce of Cayenne, two tea- spoonfuls of real soy, two of walnut ketchup, four anchovies chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough cochineal to give it the colour of lavender drops. Let it stand six weeks : then strain off quite clear, and keep in small bottles sealed up. Sugar Vinegar.— To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar, boil and skim thoroughly, then put one quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, put into it a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days ; then barrel, and set in a place v here the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the bung-hole. Make it in March, it will be ready in six months. When sufficiently sour, it may be bottled, or may be used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. Gooseberry Vinegar.—Boil spring water; and when cold, put to every three quarts, a quart of bruised gooseberries in a farge tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring' often, then strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor, add a pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it mto a barrel, and a toast and yeast: cover the bung-hole with a'bit of slate, &c., as above. The greater quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the vinegar. Cucumber Vinegar.—Pare and slice fifteen large cucumbers and put them in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, tour onions sliced, two or tluee shalots, a little garlic, two large spoon-