TO KEEP GOOSEBEEEIES—TO KEEP DAMSONS. 166 them be gathered ; and take care not to cut them in taking off the stalks and buds. Fill wide-mouthed bottles; put the corks loosely in, and set the bottles up to the neck in a boiler of water. When the fruit looks scalded, take them out; and when perfectly cold, cork close and resin the top. Dig a trench in a part of the garden less used, sufficiently deep for all the bottles to stand, and let the earth be thrown over to cover them a foot and a half. When a frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will prevent the ground from hardening so that the fruit cannot be dug up. Or, scald as above ; when cold, fill the bottles with cold water, cork them, and keep them in a damp or dry place ; they will not be spoiled. Another way.—In the size and preparations as above ; when done, have boiling water ready, either in a boiler or large kettle ; and put into it as much roach-alum as will, when dissolved, harden the water, which you will taste by a little roughness; if there be too much it will spoil the fruit. Put as many gooseberries into a large sieve as will lie at the bottom without covering one another. Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit begins to look scalded on the outside; then turn them gently out of the sieve on a cloth on the dresser, cover them with another cloth, and put some more to be scalded, and so on till all be finished. Observe not to put one quantity on another, or they will become too soft. The next day Eick out any bad or broken ones, bottle the rest, and fill up the ottles with alum water in which they were scalded ; which must be kept in the bottles, for if left in the kettle, or in a glazed pan, it will spoil. Stop them close. The water must boil all the time the process is carrying on. Gooseberries done this way make as fine tarts as those gathered fresh off the bushes. Another way.—In dry weather pick the gooseberries that are full grown, but not ripe; top and tail, and put them into open- mouthed bottles; gently cork them with new velvet corks ; put them in the oven when the bread is drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quarter part; take them out of the oven, and immediately beat the corks in tight, cut off the tops, and resin down close; set them in a dry place, and if well secured from the air, they will keep the year round. If gathered in the damp, or the gooseberries’ skins are the le^t cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they will mould. The hairy sort only must be used for keeping, and do them before the seeds become large. Currants and damsons may be done the same way. To Keep Damsons for Winter Pies.—Put them in small stone jars, or wide-mouthed bottles; set them up to their ueck.s in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when perfectly cold, fill up with spring water; cover them. . . , . Another way.—Eoil one-third as much sugar as fruit witn it, over a slow fire, till the juice adheres to the fruit, and forms a jam.