OBSEEVATIONS OX DRESSING YEGETARLES. 129 undergo a greater effect in tlie oven. Brusli them over as usual with the dorure or egg-wash, to which has been added a little milk. Put them into an oven moderately hot, but do not open the oven till they are quite baked, otherwise they would flatten, and all attempts to make them rise again would be found to be useless: next dry them. Sometimes you may glaze them; at other times j'ou may send them up without being glazed. To detach them from the baking sheet, apply the sharp edge of your knife, and take them oft' gently. Then make a small open- ing on the side, into which put with a tea-spoon such sweetmeats as you think proper, and send them up dished en hidsson. N.B.—Be cautious to smell every egg before you use it, for a bad one would spoil the whole. *«• This elegant receipt is extracted from “ The French Cook,” by Mr. Ude. VEGETABLES. Observations on Dressing Vegetables. Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects and nicely ■ washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment they are done enough. If overboiled, they will lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat, which 1 is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. To Boil Vegetables Green.—Be sure the water boils when you put the vegetables in. ^lake them boil very fast. Do not cover, but watch them ; and if the water has not slackened, you I may be sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take t them out immediately, or the colour will change. Hard water, •especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as • should be green. To boil them green in hard water, put a tea-spoonful of salt of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables are : put in. Vegetable Marrow, to Boil or Stew.—This excellent vegetable may be boiled as asparagus. When boiled, divide it lengthways into two, and serve it up on toast accompanied by melted butter ; or when nearly boiled divide it as above, and stow .gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches in length. To Keep Green Peas.—Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils ; give them two or three warms only, and pour them into a colander. When tlie water drains off, turn tliem out on a dresser covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly. Then bottle them in wide-mouthed bottles, leaving only room to pour clarified rnutton-suct upon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Ilosiu it down, and keep it in the cellar or in the earth, as will be directed for gooseberries under the head of “ Keeping for Winter.” When they are to bo used, boil them