46 HASHED BEEF—BEEF I-EA-VINGEETTE. To Dress the same, called Sanders—Mince beef or mutton small, with onion, pepper, and salt; add a little gravy put it into scallop-shells or saucers, making them three parts full, and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream; put a bit of butter on the top, and browm them in au oven or before the fire, or with a salamander. To Dress the same, called Cecils.—Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, pepper, and a bit of butter warm, and mix these over a fire for a few minutes; when cool enough, make them up into balls the size and shape of a turkey’s egg, with an egg ; sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and then fry them of a yellow broum, and serve with gravy as before directed for Beef Olives. To Mince Beef.—Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft; then put some or the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Do not let it boil. Have a.small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it: if shalot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the I’aw shalot. To Hash Beef.—Do it the same as in the last receipt, only the meat is to be in shoes, and you may add a spoonful of walnut- liquor or ketchup. Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered; and this last only hot through. Beef a-la-Vingrette,—Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick and a little fat; stew it in lialf a pint of water, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay leaf: season it with three cloves pounded and pepper, till the liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain off the gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar for sauce. Round of Beef should be carefully salted, and wet with the Eickle I'or eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, the eef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be stuffed '»?ith parsley, if approved ; in which case the holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp pointed knife, and the parsley coai'sely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. Rolled Beef that equals Hare.—Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of idnegar mixed, for forty-eight hours ; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. Roast it on a hanging spit, and baste it with a glass of port wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour: serve with a rich gravy in the dish; currant-jelly and melted- butter, in tureens. To Roast Tongue and Udder.—After cleaning th« tongue