71 TO CHOOSE I'OCLTEY, GAME, ETC. often practised. If frcsli, tkc vent will be close and dark. Pul- lets are best just before the}' begin to lay, and yet are full of egg; if old bens, their combs and legs will be rough; if young, they will be smooth. A good capon has a thick belly and large rump, there is a particular fat at his breast, and the comb is very pale. Plack-legged fowls are most moist, if for : roasting. Geese.—The bill and feet of a young one will be yellow, and t there will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, they will be red : : if fresh, the feet wiU be pliable ; if stale, dry and stiff. Geese ; are called green till three or four months old. Green geese should be scalded : a stubble-goose should be picked dry. Ducks.—Choose them by the same rules, of having supple feet, and by their being hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to dusky yellow ; a wild one has the feet reddish, and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dry. Ducklings must be scalded. Pigeons should be very fresh; when they look flabby about the vent, and this part is discoloured, they are stale. The feet should be supple ; if old, the feet are harsh. The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought best by some persons ; they should be fat and tender; but many are deceived in their size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. The wood pigeon is large, and the flesh dark-coloured ; if pro- perly kept and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. Serve with a good gravj'. Plovers.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowl. When stale, the feet are dry. They will ke«p sweet a long time. There are three sorts:—The grey, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. Hare or Rabbit.—If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old; but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lip is not much spread, it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in hares the flesh i^ale. But they keep a good while by proper care : and are best when rather beginning to turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know a real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone near the foot on its fore leg ; if there is none it is a hare. Partridges.—They are in high season in autumn. If young the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellowish ; if fresh, the vent will be firm ; but this part will look greenish if stale. Pheasants.—The cock-bird is accounted best, c.vcept when the hen is with egg. If young, he has short blunt or round spurs; but if old. they arc hue and sharp. Directions for Dressing Poultry and Game. - All poultry should be very carefully ])icked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with white paper. The cock must be caref>>i in drawing pa-’’ —» pf pU gorls, not