52 VEAL COLLOPS—FEICANDEAir OF VEAL. grated; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them; and have in a boat melted butter with a little mushroom-ketchup. Cutlets another way.—Prepare as above, and fry them; lay them into a dish, and keep them hot; dredge a httle flour, and put a bit of butter into the pan ; brown it, then pour a little boiling water into it, and boil quick : season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. Other ways.—Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets in a Dutch-oven; pour over them melted butter and muslirooms. Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck-steaks. They are excellent with herbs. Veal CoUops.-y Cut long thin collops ; beat them well; and lay on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a little garlic and Cayenne. Poll them up tight, about the size of two fingers, but uot more than two three inches long; put a very small skewer to fasten each firmly; rub egg over; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. To Dress Collops Quick.—Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt; set them on the fire while you beat the collops; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put some butter into a frying-pan, and give the collops a very quick fry; for as they are so thin, two minutes will do them ou both sides : put them into a hot dish before the fire ; then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the frying-pan, and pour it over the coUops. A little ketchup is an improvement. Another way.—Fry them in butter, only seasoned with salt and pepper; simmer them in gravy, cither white or brown, with bits of bacon served with them. If white, add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. Scallops of Cold Veal or Chicken.—Mince the meat extremely small; and set it over the fire with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and a little cream, for a few minutes: then put it into the scallop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Either veal or chicken looks and eats well prepared in this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried 5 or these may be put ou in little heaps. Fricandeau of Veal.—Cut a large piece from the fat side of fhe leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad; beat it with the rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides ; and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it in the stew-pan with pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay leaves, a pint of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham or gam- mon, Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three hours;