106 CniCKEN PIE—GREEN GOOSE PIE—DUCK PIE. pepper and salt; put two spoonfuls of water before baking, and as much gravy when it comes from the oven. I^ote.—Meat pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy on one side, and put in again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. Chicken Pie.—Cut up two young fowls; season with white pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder; likewise a little Cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of ham, or fresh gammon of bacon, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs, by turns in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water; but none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag with some shank-bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add truffles, morels, mushrooms, &c., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it; but, in a raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may give it a bod with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve. Rabbits, if young and in flesh, do as well: their legs should be cut short, and the breast bones must not go in, but will help to make the gravy. Green Goose Pie.—Bone two young green geese, of a good size ; but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or v’ithout crust; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. Duck Pie.—Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl; wash them and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl within the duck, and in the former a calf’s tongue pickled red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the whole close; the skins of the legs should be draum inwards, that the body of the fowls may be quite smooth. If approved, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat made according to the second receipt given for making forcemeat in page 100. Bake it in a slow oven, either in a raised crust, or pie-dish with a thick crust, ornamented. The large pies in Staffordshire are made as above : but with a goose outwards, then a turkey, a duck next, t)mn a fowl; and either tongue, small birds, or forcemeat in the middle. Giblet Pie.—After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold; and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above ; and when the pie is baked pour into it a large tea- cupful of cream, Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well,