34 TO CHOOSE MEATS. nit; then strain it through a sieve, and put a Httle of it into a tosser with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg,and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice; put them into rolls sold for the purpose. Oyster Patties.—See Patties. To Pickle Oysters.—Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to it a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white wine, and four of vinegar. Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small jars, and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters: cover close. Another way to Pickle Oysters.—Open the number you intend to pickle, put them into a saucepan v'ith their own liquor for ten minutes, simmer them very gently; then put them into a jar, one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them when cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hun- dred put two spoonfuls of the beat undistilled vinegar. They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, for the air will spoil them. Note.—Directions for making Fisli Pies will be found under the head Pies . MEATS. I'o Choose Meats. VENISON.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft part smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haut- gout. Beef.—If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look tender. The fat should look white rather than yellow, for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter than that of ox-beef, but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinnjq the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in small fami- lies, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef: the harder this is, the older; and the flesh is not finely flavoured. Veal.—The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so white The flUet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, having ^en made so by frequent bleeding and having had whiting to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with thick white fat. If the