SPHATS—LOBSTERS—MACKEREL. 32 moist, cut them open, and pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half an hour; drain them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and serve. Egg sauce, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes should be sent up with them. Baked Herrings and Sprats.—Wash and drain without wiping them; season with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves; lay them in a pan with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay-leaves. Add half vinegar and half small beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. If you like, throw saltpetre over them the night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. Sprats.—When cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a skewer run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot and hot. LOBSTERS AND SHRIMPS,—To Pot Lobsters.- Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg and salt, press close into a pot and cover with butter, bake half an hour; put the spawn in. When cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some of the spawn: then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if approved. Another way to Pot Lobsters, as at Wood’s Hotel.— Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail and remove the gut; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two, in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay-leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-pots, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day; or highly seasoned, and thickly covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster maybe used cold, or as a fricassee, with a crearn-, sauce: it then looks very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. Mackerel, Herrings, and Trout, are good potted as above. Stewed Lobster, a very high Relish.—Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut-ketchup, a little salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port • strew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. Buttered Lobsters.-Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. To Roast Lobsters.-When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of the shell, and, while hot, rub it with butter, and lay