BEEF PALATES—BEEF CAKES—BEEF OLIVES. An "Beef Palates.—Simmer them for several hours, till they wiU ■peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose, and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. -Before j'ou serve, season them with Cayenne, salt, and ketchup. '.If the gravy was drawn clear, add idso some butter and flour. If to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew them in a ■fricassee sauce ; adding cream, butter, flour, mushroom powder, mnd a little pounded mace. Beef Cakes for a Side Dish of Dressed Meat.—Pound •some beef that is underdone with a little fat bacon or ham; season ■with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, or garlic; mix them weU, and rmake into small cakes three inches long, and half as wide and thick; fry them a hght brown, and serve them in a good thick .gravy. To Pot Beef.—Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with salt- ;petre, and let it be one night; then salt with common salt, and cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth, . and season with black pepper; lay it in as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. THien cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat very :fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste; put it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. Another way.—Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter just warm. This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. To Dress the Inside of a Cold Sirloin of Beef.—Cut out all the meat, and a little fat, in pieces as thick as your finger, and two inches long ; dredge it with flour, and fry in butter, of a nice brown; drain the butter from the meat, and to.ss it up in a :rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do not let it boil on any account. Before you serve, add two spoon- fuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped par.sley. Fricassee of Cold Roast Beef.—Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of parsley very small, cut a;i onion into quarters, and put all together into a stew-pan, with a piece of butter and some strong broth: sea.son with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour; then mi.v into it the yolks of two egg.s, a glas.s of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; stir it quick, rulj the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee into it. To Dress Cold Beef that has not been dono enough, called Beef Olives.—Cut slices half an inch tliick, and four inche.s .square : lay on them a forcemeatof crumbs of I)read, shalot, a little suet or fat, pepper and salt. Jtoll them, and fasten w ith a small skewer ; put them into a stew-pan -w ith some gravy made of the beef Imncs, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of water, and stew them till tender. Fresh meat wiU do.