214 TO rnESERVE GILDING, AND CLEAN IT. To Clean Looking-glasses.—Eemove the fly-stains, and oth'cr soil, by a damp rag; then polish with woollen cloth and powder blue. To Preserve Gilding, and Clean it.—It is not possible to prevent flies from staining the gilding without covering it; before which, blow off the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it; then, with strips of paper cover the frames of 3mur glasses, and do not remove it till the flies are gone. Linen takes olF the gilding, and deadens its brightness: it should therefore never be used for wiping it. Some means should bo used to destroy the flics, as they injure furniture of everj^ kind, and the paper likewise. Bottles hung about with sugar and vinegar, or beer, will attract them; or fly-water put into little shells i>laccd about the room, but out of the reach of children. To Clean Paint.—Never use a cloth, but take ofi*the dust with a little long-haired brush, after blowing oft' the loose part with the bellows. With care, paint will look well for a length of time. Wlien soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wash it off quickb’’, and dry immediatel}^ or the strength of the soda will cat oft’the colour. "When wainscot rc(iuircs scouring, it should be done from the top downwards, and the soda be prevented from running on the unclean part as much as possible, or marks will be made which will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry n ith old linen as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed the soda off. To Clean Papei’ Hangings.—Pirst blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a white loaf of eight da3's oldinto eight parts. Take the crust into 3’our hand, and, beginning at the top of the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner with the crumb. Do not cross nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe, you must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke and after doing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a little above where 3’ou left oft. If 3 0U do not do it extremely lightly, 3'ou will make the dirt adhere to the paper. It will look like new if properly done. To Give a Fine Gloss to Oak Wainscot.—If greasy, it must be washed with warm beer ; then boil two quarts of strong beer, a bit of bees’-wax as large as a walnut, and a lal^e spoonful of sugar; wet it all over with a large brush, and when diy rub it till bright. ,, , To Give a Fine Colour to Mahogany.—Let the tables be washed perfectly clean with vinegar, having first taken out anv ink stains there may be with spirit of salt; but it must be used with the greatest care, and only touch the part affected, and be instantly washecl ofi'. Use the tollowing liquid : Into a pint 01 cold-drawn linseed oil, put four pcnn3'worth of alkanet-root, and two pennyworth of rose-pink, in an earthen vessel; let it remain all night, then stirring well, rub some of it all over the tables v itii