126 POTATO PASTY—ElCn CITSTAEDS—XEMOK CUSTAEDS. that you may have a little rich gravy tq add to the paste when drawn. Note.—Sugar gives a greater shortness, and better flavour to meats than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens, and it is quite as great a pre- servative. Potato Pasty. — Boil, peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible, mix them with salt, pepper, and a good hit of butter. Make a paste; roll it out thin like a large puflf, and put in the potato : fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake in a mode- rate oven. Cheap and Excellent Custards.—Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon peel, a bit of cinnamon, two or three bay leaves, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub down smooth a large spoonful of rice fiour into a cup of cold milk, and mix with it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boiling milk, and mix with the cold, and then pour that to the boiling; stirring it one way till it begins to thicken, and is just going to boil up ; then pour it into a pan, and stir it some time; add a large spoonful of peach water, two tea-spoonfuls of brandy, or a little ratafia. Marbles boiled in custard or anything likely to burn, will, by shaking them in the sauce-pan, prevent it from catching. Rich Custards.—Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinnamon; mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs well beaten ; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way; season as above. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. Baked Custard.—Boil one pint of cream and half a pint of milk, with mace, cinnamon, and lemon peel, a little of each. When cold, mi.x the yolks of three eggs; sweeten and make your cups or paste nearly full. Bake them ten minutes. Lemon Custards.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white as milk : then ijut to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to your taste. Stir it on the fire till thick enough; then add a large glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy ; give the whole one scald, and put it in cups, to be eaten cold. Almond Custard.—Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with a spoonful of water; then beat a pint of cream with two spoonf^uls of rose water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thick- ness ; but do not boil. Pour it into cups. Cheesecakes.—Strain the w^hey from the curd of two quarts of milk ; w'hen rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and mix with six ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded blanched almonds, a little orange-flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, four ounces of currants, some nutmeg, and ciuna-