185 EASPUEllRY BIUNDY—illLK I’UNCn. and add to tlie brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they are strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. I he leaves of peach and nectarines, v\ hen tlie trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. Raspberry Brandy.—Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will ruu; strain, and to every pint add half a pound of sugar, give one boil, and skim itwhen cold put equal quantities of juice and brandy, shake well and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy. An excellent Method of making Punch.—Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe, and some large lumps of double-refined sugar. Eub the sugar over the lemons till it has absorbed all the 3^ellow part of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the lemons may be supposed to require ; for no certain weight can be mentioned, as the acidit.y of a lemon cannot be known till tried, and therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then squeeze the lemon juice upon the sugar, and with a bruiser press the sugar and the juice particularly well together, for a great deal of the richness and fine flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process being thoroughly ijerformed. Then mix this up very well with boiling water (soft water is best) till the whole is rather cool. When this mixture (which is now called the sher- bet) is to 3'our taste, take brandy and rum in equal quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole well together again. The quantity of liquor must be according to your taste; two good lemons are generally enough to make four quarts of punch, includ- ing a quart of liquor, with half a pound of sugar ; but this de- pends much on taste and on the strength of the spirit. As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sherbet maj^ be strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the lemon bfefore they put it to the sugar, which is improper ; as, when the pulp and sugar are well mixed together, it adds much to the rich- ness of the punch. When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will soften the punch; and even when both rum and brandy are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant flavour. This receipt ha.s never been in pnnt before, but is grcatl.y ad- mired among the writer’s friends. It is impossible to take too much pains in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do them extremely well, that all the different articles may be most thoroughly incorporated together. Vendor, or Milk Punch.—Pare six oranges and six lemons a.s thin a.s you can, grate tliern after with siurar to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy, stopped close, twenty-four hours. Squeeze the fruit on t«o [)ountls of sugar, and add to it four quart.s of water and one of new inillc boiling hot; stir the mm into the above, and mn it through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close immediately.