OBSEKVATIONS OX DltESSIXG VEGETABLES. 130 till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. Another way (as practised in the Emperor of Eussia’s kitchen). Shell, scald, and dry them as above; put them on tins or earthen dishes in a cool oven, once or twice to harden. Keep them in paper bags hung up in the kitchen. When they are to be used, let them lie an hour in water ; then set them on with cold W'ater and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. Boiled Peas should not bo overdone, nor in much water. Chop some scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in with them. To Stew Green Peas.—Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion, both sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce fi’om washing. Stew them two hours very gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them, or a bit of flour and butter. Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered sugar is an im- provement. Gravy may be added, but then there will be less of the flavour of the peas. Chop a bit of mint and stew in them. To Stew Old Peas.—Steep them in water all night, if not fine boilers, otherwise half an hour will do ; put them into water just enough to cover them, with a good bit of butter or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently till the peas are soft, and the meat is tender; if it is not salt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serve them round the meat. To Dress Artichokes.—Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil them. They arc better for being gathered two or three days first. Serve them with melted butter, in as many small cups as there are arti- chokes. to help with each. Artichoke Bottoms.—If dried they must be soaked, then stewed in weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each; or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream sauce, or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. Jerusalem Artichokes must be taken up the moment they are done, or they u ill be too soft. They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricassee sauce. To Stew Cucumbers.—Slice them thick, or halve and di- vide them into two lengths; strew some salt and pepper and sliced onions ; add a little broth or a bit of butter. Simmer very slowly, and before serving, if no butter u as in before, ]iut some and a little flour, or if there was butter in, only a little flour, un- less it wants richness. Another way.—Slice the onions, and cut the cucumbers large; flour them, and fry them in some butter; then pour on some good broth or gravy, and stew them till done enough. Skim off the fat. To Stew Onions.—Peel six large onions; fry gently of a fine brown, but do not blacken them; then put them into a small stew-pan with a Uttlo weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover