116 SKEIFORD PTODING—BRANDY PDDDING. A Green Bean Pudding.—Boil and blanch old beans, beat them in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach juice will give a finer colour, but it is as good without. Boil it in a basin that will just hold it, an hour, and pour parsley and butter over. Serve bacon to eat with it. Shelford Pudding.—Mix three quarters of a pound of cur- rants or raisins, one pound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little good milk, some lemon peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon- shape six hours. Brandy Ppidding.—Line a mould with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, then with thin slices of French roll, next to which put ratafias or macaroons ; then the fruit, rolls, and cakes in suc- cession, until the mould be full; sprinkling in at times two glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites ; put to a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweetened, half a nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon finely grated. Let the liquor sink into the solid part; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil one hour; keep the mould the right side up. Serve with pudding-sauce. Buttermilk Pudding.—Warm three quarts of new milk; turn it with a quart of buttermilk ; drain the curd through a sieve; when dry pound it in a marble mortar, with near half a pound of sugar, a lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a roll grated, a nutmeg grated, six bitter almonds, four ounces of warm hutter, a tea-cupful of good cream, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, a glass of sweet wine, and ditto of brandy. When well incorporated, bake it in small cups or bowls well buttered; if the butter be not brown, use a salamander; but serve as quick as possible, and with pudding sauce. Curd Puddings or Puffs.—Turn two quarts of milk to curd, press the whey from it, rub through a sieve, and mix four ounces of butter, the crumb of a penny loaf, two spoonfuls of cream, and half a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, and two spoon fids of white wine. Butter little cups, or small patty-pans, and fill them three parts. Orange flower water is an ini- provement. Bake them with care. Serve with sweet sauce in a boat. Boiled Curd Pudding.—Bub the curd of two gallons of milk, when drained, through a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little ci’eam, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, half a nut- meg, flour and crumbs of bread, each three spoonfuls, currants and raisins half a pound of each. Bod an hour in a thick well floured cloth. Pippin Pudding.—Coddle six pippins in vine leaves covered with water, very gently, that the inside be done without breaking the skins. Wlien soft, skin, and with a tea-spoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through a colander; add two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, three eggs beaten, a glass of raisin wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nutmeg to taste. Lay a thin puli’paste at the bottom and sides of the dish: shred very thin lemon peel as line as possible, and put it into the dish; likewise