44 BEEF STEAICS AND OTSTEE-SADCE—BEEF COLLOP. To Collar Beef.—Choose the tliin end of the flank of fine mellowbeef, but not too fat; lay it in a dish with salt and salt- petre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cool. Take out every bone and gristle, remove tlie skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following seasoning cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt and allspice. Eoll the meat up as tight as possible and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put roimd before the tape. Put the beef under a good weiglit while hot, without undoing it; the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very well. Beef Steaks should be cut from the rump that has hung a few days. Broil them over a very clear or charcoal fii’e: put into the dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side. This dish requires to be eaten hot and fresh-done, and is not in perfection if served with anything else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking it off'the fire. Beef Steaks and Oyster Sauce.—Strain off the liquor from the 03"sters, and throw them into cold water to take off the grit, Wilde you simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon- peel ; then put the oysters in, stew them a few minutes, add a little cream if you have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of flour: let them boil up once, and have rump steaks, well seasoned and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster sauce over the moment you are to serve. Staffordshire Beef Steaks.—Beat them m ith a rolling-pin, flour and season, then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown ; lay the steaks in a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will serve for sauce; stew them very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup or walnut-liquor, before you serve. Italian Beef Steaks.—Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well hung, or it will do from any tender part; beat it, and season with pepper, salt, and onion ; lay it in an iron stew- pan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the fire without water. Take care it does not burn, but it must Ixave a strong heat: in two or three hom-s it wiU be quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy. Beef CoUop.—Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces three inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two minutes ; lay them into a small stew- p..n, and cover them with a pint of gravy; add a bit of butter rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as line as possible, half a walnut, foim small pickled cucumbers, and a tea- spoonfid of capers cut small. Take care that it does not boil, and serve the stew in a very hot covered dish.