70 TO CHOOSE POULTRY, GAME,' ETC. ladleful of brotli, some pepper and salt, a small bunch of small onions, and a blade of mace; stir in a bit of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. .Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Do not let it boil after the cream is in, but make it hot, and stir it well all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or j)eas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. Fricasseed Lambstones.—Skin and wash, tlien dry and flour them ; fry of a beautiful brown in hog’s lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till you have made the following sauce; Thicken almost half a pint of veal gravy with a bit of flour and butter, and then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a grate of nut- meg, and the yolk of an egg beaten well in two large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir it well till it is hot, and looks white; but do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in it the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. Serve in a very hot dish and cover. Fricassee of Larabstones and Sweetbreads, another way.—Have ready some lambstones blanched, parboiled and sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads, if very thick, cut them in two. Fry altogether, with a few large oysters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter olF; and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus tops about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten minutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boil- ing. Garnish with lemon. A very nice Dish.—Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost round. Egg, then strew with crumbs, herbs, and season- ing ; fry them of the finest brown; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on an other with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. Pies of the different meats are directed under the general head of Savoury Pies. POULTRY, GAME, &c. To Choose Poultry, Game, <&c. A Turkey-cock if young, it has a smooth, black leg, with a short spur. The eyes M and bright, if fresh, and the feet supple and moist. If stale, the eyes will be sunk, and the feet dry. Hen-turkey is known by the same rules ; but if old, her legs will be red and tough. Fowls.— If a cock is young, his spurs will be short: but take care to see that they have not Ijeen cut or pared, Avhich is a trick