EOYAL rASTJE, CALLED “ AD CnOUX." 128 acid four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs weU beaten ; mix all as quick as possible : put into very small patty-pans, and bake in a pretty warm oven under twenty minutes. Another way.—Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, ■with a little orange-flower, or rose water; then stir in the yolks of six and whites of three eggs, well beaten, five ounces of butter warmed, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice: sweeten -with fine Lisbon sugar. When well mixed, bake in a delicate paste, in small pans. Another way.—Press the whey from as much curd as wiU make two dozen small ones : then put it on the back of a sieve, and with half an ounce of butter rub it through with the back of a spoon ; put to it six yolks, and three whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds pounded with as much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet: mix with it the rind of a lemon grated, and a glass of brandy. Put a pulF paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake them. Dough Nuts.—Bub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, then add six ounces of sugar, thi’ee eggs, about a dessert ^oonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make it into a stiff paste. Let it stand to rise, then roll it out, and cut it into shapes ■with a paste cutter, and boil them in lard, till they are of a nice brown colour. A Tippling Cake.—Put a sponge cake into a deep china or glass dish, pour round it some wliite wine (raisin is very suitable), and a wine glass of brandy. Let the cake soak up the wine, and then strew sifted sugar over it, and pour in the dish a rich thick custard, according to your fancy. Royal Paste, called “Au Choux.”—This paste is the basis of many sorts of pastry: it is used to mix an infinite number of second-com’se dishes of various forms, and of different denomi- nations. Take a stew-pan large enough to contain four quarts of water, pour half a pint of water into it, ith a quarter of a pound or a little more of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, a little salt; and the peel of a lemon ; let the whole boil till the butter is entirely melted. Then take some very fine dry flour and shake through a sieve. Take the lemon peel out with a ladle, and throw a hand- ' ful of flour into the preparation while boiling; take cai'e, how- ever, not to put more flour than the liquor can soak up. Stir with a wooden spoon till the paste can easily be detached from the stew-pan, and then take it off the fire. Next break an egg into this paste, and mix it well: then break a second, which also mix; do not put more eggs than the paste can absorb, but you must be careful not to make this preparation too liquid. It is almost cer- tain, that about five or six eggs will be wanted for the above quan- tity ; then form them e?t choux, by whicli is meant in the shape of a ball an inch in circumference. As this paste swells very much, you must dress it accordingly, putting the choux on a baking sheet, at an inch distant from each other, in order that they may