22 TO CHOOSE risir. eyes briglit, and tlie body stid. The tench lias a slimy matter about it, tlie clearness and brightness of w hieh show Ireshness. The season is July, August and September. Perch.—Take the general rules given to distinguish the fresh- ness of other fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. Smelts, if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have a refreshing smell like cucumbers newly cut. They are caught in - the Thames and some other large rivers. Mullets.—The sea are preferred to the river mullets, and the red to the grej'. They should be very firm. Their season is August. ^ Gudgeons.—They are chosen by the same rules as other fish. They are taken in running streams ; come in about midsummer, and are to be had for five or si.x months. Eels.—d'liere is a greater difTerence in the goodness of eels than of an.y other fish. The true silver-eel (so-called from the bright colour of the belly) is eauglit iu the Thames. The Dutch eels sold at Billingsgate arc very bad ; those taken in great floods are gene- rally good, but in ponds they have usually a strong rank flavour. E.vcept the middle of summer, they are always iu season. Lobsters.—If they have not been long taken, the claws will have a strong motion when you j)ut your finger on the eyes and press them. The heaviest are the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. When you buy them ready boiled, try whether, (heir tails are stiff, and pull up with a spring ; otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail, and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and hard ; but those of the heu are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deeper red. Crabs.—The heaviest are best, and those of a middling size are sweetest. If light they are watery; when in perfection the joints f of the legs are stiff and the body has a very agi’eeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale. ' Prawns and. Shrimps.—When fresh they have a sweet fla- vour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. Oysters.—There are several kinds ; the Pyfleet, Colchester, and Milford, are much the best. The native Milton are fine, being white and fat; but others may be made to possess both these qualities in some degree by proper feeding. When alive and strong the shell closes on the knife. They shoidd be eaten as soon as opened, the flavour becoming ])Oor otherwise. The rock oyster is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour if eateu raw. Flounders.—They should be (hick, firm, and have (heir eyes bright. They very soon become fijibby and bad. They are both sea and river fish. The I'liames produces (he besh They are in season from January to March, and from July to beptember. Sprats.—Choose by the same rules as herrings. Observations on Dressing Fish.—If the fishmonger docs not clean it, fish is seldom veiy nicely done ; but those in great