LEO OF MUTTOX—UAUN'Cll OF MUXXOX. Cj fashion may authorize, putrid juices ought not to be tahon into the stomach. Mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung long. Great care should be taken to preserve by paper the fat of what is roasted. Leg of Mutton.—If roasted, serve with onion or currant- j jell}' sauce : if boiled, with caper sauce and vegetables. Neck of Mutton is particularly useful, as so many dishes I may be made of it; but it is not advantageous for the family. The bones should be cut short, which the butchers will not do I unless particularly desired. The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served with tur- : nips ; or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in pies, or hai'rico. The scrags may be stewed in broth; or with a small quantity . of water, some small onions, a few peppercorns and a little rice, . and served together. When a neck is to be boded to look particularly nice, saw down • the chine bone, strip the ribs half-way down, and chop off the ends I of the bones about four inches. The skin should not be taken off • tdl boded, and then the fat wdl look the whiter. MTien there is more fat to a neck or loin of mutton than it is agreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an uncommonly good suet pudding, or crust for a meat-pie if cut very fine. Shoulder of Mutton Roasted.—Serve with onion sauce. The blade-bone may be broiled. To Dress Haunch of Mutton.—Keep it as long as it can be preseiwed sweet by the different modes; let it be washed with warm mdk and water, or vinegar, if necessary; but when to be dressed, observe to wash it wed, lest the outside should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong paper, and fold the haunch in : set it at a great distance from the fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste; do not take it off till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving, and then baste it continually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire before you take off the paste, and froth it up as j'ou would venison. A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt: brown it with a little burnt sugar, and send it up in the dish; but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat; for though long at the fire, the distance and covering will prevent its roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. To Roast a Saddle of Mutton.—Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again ; take it off a ([uartcr of anhourbeforeserving.sprinkle it with some salt, bnsteit, and dredge it well with flour. The rump should be split, and skewered back on each side. The joint may be large or small according to the company ; it is the moat elegant if the latter. Being broad it re- quires a high and strong fire.