121 OBSERVATIONS ON PASTRY. Observations on Pastry.—An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it adhering to the board or dish used in malting. It is best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot weather the butter should be put into cold water to keep it as firm as possible, and if made early in the morning, and preserved from the air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much better. . A good hand at pastry will use much less butter, and produce lighter crust than others. Salt butter, if very good and well ■ washed, makes a fine flaky crust. Remarks on Using Preserved Fruits in Pastry.—Pre- •served fruits should not be baked long; those that have been done with their full proportion of sugar, need no baking; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards .added; or it may be put into a small dish, or tart-pans, and the .covers be baked on a tin cut out according to your taste. Apple Pie.—Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the out- •side, which, with the cores, boil with a little water till it tastes H'well; strain, and put a httle sugar and a bit of bruised cinnamon, ^nd simmer again. In the meantime place the apples in a dish, a Tpaste being put round the edge; when one layer is in, sprinkle .half the sugar, and shred lemon peel, and squeeze some juice, or a .glass of cyder if the apples have lost their spirit; put in the rest of the apples, sugar, and the liquor that j'ou have boiled. Cover ■with paste. You may add some butter when cut, if eaten hot, or ■put quince-marmalade, orange-paste, or cloves, to flavour. Hot Apple Pie.—Make with the fruit, sugar, and a clove, •and put a bit of butter in when cut open. Cher^ Pie should have a mixture of other fruit,—cui’rants or .-raspberries, or both. Currant Pie, with or without raspberries. Mince Pie.—Of scraped beef free from skin and strings, weigh two pounds, four pounds of suet picked and chopped, then add / -six pounds of currants nicely cleaned and perfectly dry, three Toound.s of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lemons, a oint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves, I ditto mace, ditto pimento, in finest powder; press the whole into i deep pan when well mixed, and keep it covered in a dry cool place. ; Half the quantity is enough, unless for a very large family. , Have citron, orange, and lemon peel ready, and put some of ■ fiach in the pies when made. Mince Pies without Meat. — Of best apples six pounds, oared, cored, and minced; of fresh suet and raisins stoned, each .hree pound.s, both likewise minced: to these adil of mace and i-rinnamon a quarter of an ounce each, and eight cloves, in finest rxjwder, three pound.s of the finest powdered sugar, tlirce quarters ' jfan ounce of .salt, the rinds of fourand juice of two lemons, half a ■lint of port, the same of brandy. Mix well and put into a deep >an. Have ready washed and dried four pounds of currants, and add X.3 you make the xiies, with candied fruit.