•26 COD—STURGEOX. Tie it up and put it ou tlie fire in cold u’ater ■which will coni- pljetely cover it. Throw a handful of salt into it. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse- radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved. If ■wfith smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the fish; or the beauty of the smelts will be taken off, as well as their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp sauce, and anchovy and butter. Crimp Cod.—Boil, broil, or fry. Cod Sounds boiled.—Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape and clean; and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and water; when tender serve them in a napkin, with egg sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, miless for fricassee. Cod Sounds to look like small Chickens.—A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too tender; when cold, put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs ; spread it over the sounds, and roll up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it; then lard them as you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine oyster sauce. Serve for side or corner dish. To Broil Cod Sounds.—Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pidl off the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; take them out, flour, and broil. While this is being done, season a little brown gravy with i^epper, salt, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a little mustard; give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the sounds. Cod Sound Ragout.—Prepare as above; then stew them in white gi’avy seasoned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon-peel, nut- meg, and the least pinch of pounded mace should give the flavour. Currie of Cod should be made of sliced cod, that has either been crimped or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of a fine brown with onion; and stew it with a good white gravy, a little currie-powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or four spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and Cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough. To Dress Salt Cod,—Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay it all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish; pour over it parsnips boiled, beaten into a mortar, and then boiled up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour. It may be served as above with egg sauce instead of the parsnip, and the root sent up whole, or the fish may be boiled and scut up witliout flaking, and sauces as above. STURGEON.—To Dress Fresh Sturgeon.—Cut slices, ndi egg over them, then sprinkle with crumbs of bread, i>arsley, pe])per, salt; fold them in paper, and broil gently. ►Sauce; butter, anchovx^. and soy.