60 NECK OF VEAL a-LA-LKAISE—BREAST OF VEAL. Or, boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. _ The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies. Neck of Veal a-la-braise.—Lard the best end vith bacon roUed in parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; put it into a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a httle lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain on the liquor : mix a little flour and butter in a stew-pan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured: then lay it into the disli, stir some of the liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze orange and lemon-juice into it. Breast of Veal.—Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken ofl* and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. Butter should be poured over it. If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into a stew-ioan, and nour some broth over it, or if you have no broth, a little water will do: add a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an anchovy; stew till the meat is tender, thicken w ith butter and flour, and add a little ketchup; or the w’hole breast may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends. Serve the sweetbread whole upon it, either stewed or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch oven. If you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, stew them with it, and serve. Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion sauce, is an excel- lent dish, if not cold nor too fat. To Roll a Breast of Veal.—Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs choi)ped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace. Lay some thick slices of fine ham; or roll into it two or three calves’ tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour or two and skimmed. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fire to simmer in a small quantity of water till it is quite tender; this will take some hours. Lay it on the dz’esser, with a board and weight on it till quite cold. Pigs’ or calves’ feet, boiled and taken from the bones, may be imt in or round it. The different colours laid in layers look zvcll when cut; and you may put in yolks of egg boiled, beet-root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in different parts. Another way.—When it is cold, take ofl the tape, and pour over it the liquor; which must be boiled up twice a zveek, or it w ill not keep. Chump of Veal a-la-daube.—Cut off the chump end of the loin ; take out the aitch-bone ; stuff the hollow with good force- meat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you took out, a little faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a ^zint of good veal-broth. Cover the veal