ORANGE JELLY—HARTSHORN JELLY—APPLE JELLY. 147 sell them that they are loss nutritious: tlioy should be only scalded to take ofl' the hair. The liquor u ill require greater care in removing the fat; but the jelly will be far stronger, and, of course, allow more water. Sole.—Jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nieely cleaned ; and as they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this ob- servation may be useful. Another way.—Boil four quarts of water with three calf’s feet, or two cow-heels that have been only scalded, till half wasted; take the jelly from the fat and sediment: mix with it the juice of a Seville orange, and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of coriander seeds, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cinnamon and six cloves, all bruised, after haWng previously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring ; then clear it through a flannel bag. "NVhde running, take a little jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of water, in which a bit of beet-root has been boiled, and run it through the bag when all the rest is run out; and this is to garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate ; but this is matter of choice. The jelly has a very fine high colour and flavour. Orange Jelly.—Grate the rind of two Seville and two China oranges, and two lemons ; squeeze the juice of three of each, and strain, and add the juice of a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass-jelly made with two ounces ; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up ; strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. Hartshorn Jelly.—Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shav- ings with two quarts of water to only one; strain it, and boil it with the rinds of four China oranges and two lemons pared thin; when cold, add the juice of both, half a pound of sugar, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth; let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly bag. Cranberry Jelly.—Alake a verj" strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed, sweeten and boil it up; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be clear. Cranberry and Rice Jelly.—Bod and press the fruit, strain the jnice and by degrees mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat as the alure-directed jelly, with milk or cream. Apple Jolly to serve at Table.— Prepare twenty golden pippins ; boil them in a pint and a half of water from the spring, till quite tender ; then strain the liquor through a colander, and to every pint put a pound of fine sugar; add grated orange or lemon ; then boil to a jelly. Another.—Prepare apples as before by boiling and straining; have really half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water