139 STVEET DISHES, PKESEKVES, SIVEETMEATS, EIC. .'Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ffingcr, a clove or two, and -some mustard-seed. "\\ hen cold, bottle it, and tie a bladder oyer •the cork; in three months boil it again with some fresh spice, ■and it will then keep a twelvemonth. Mushroom Ketchup another way.—Take a stew-pan full •of large-flap mushrooms that are not worm-eaten, the skins and r'fringe of those you have pickled, throw a handful of salt among •them, and set them by a slow fire; they will produce a great deal j of liquor, which you must strain; and put to it four ounces of j -shalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, I •■cloves, and a few bay leaves—boil and skim very well. When i ■•cold, cork close. In two months boil it up again with a little fresh j .-spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep the year, "•vhich mushroom ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second •.rime. ■Walnut Ketchup of the finest sort.—Boil or simmer a ggallon of the e.'^pressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, land skim it well; then put in two pounds of anchovies, bones and i Liquor, ditto of shalots, one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of j Toepper and one clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots I ‘sink ; then put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle and share I :;he spice with each. Cork closel3'', and tie a bladder over. It will 1 Lreep twenty years, and is not good the first. Be very careful to I fcxpress the juice at home; for it is rarely unadulterated, if I ■''oought. Some people make liquor of the outside shell when I ’che nut is ripe; but neither the flavour nor the colour is then I HO fine. Cockle Ketchup.—Open the cockles, scald them in their own iiquor ; add a little water when the liquor settles, if j'ou have not ^enough; strain through a cloth, then season with every savoury pspice: and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlic; if p 'or white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon-juice and peel, mace, nutmeg, and white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of susar for colouring. It is better to have cockles enough than • ;o add water ; and they are cheap. To Keep Capers.—Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, nnd become cold, and tie them close, to keep out the air, which makes them soft. II S'WEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEETMEATS, 1 ETC. SWEET DISHES.—Buttered Rico.-W^ash and pick Mome rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, enough just lo •■5well it, over the fire -.when tender, pour off the milk, and add a oit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, that t do not burn, and .sen^e. Souffle of Rice and Apple.—Blanch C.'rclinariec, strain it, ■md ' f to boil in milk, with lemon iieel and a bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till the rice is dry ; then cool it. and raise a rnn tlirce