76 TO BllAISE CHICKENS—TO llOAST GOOSE. veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of garlic. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful or two of currie-powder, a spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter: and add this, with four large spoonfuls of cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. When serving, squeeze in a little lemon. Slices of underdone veal, or rabbit, turkey, &c., make excellent cun’ie. A dish of rice boiled dry must be served. For directions to do this, see the’article Eice in the Index. Another, more easily made.—Cut up a chicken or young rabbit: if chicken, take off the skin. EoU each piece in a mixture of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of currie powder. Slice two or three onions, and fry them in butter, of a light brown: then add the meat, and fr3'’ all together till the meat begins to brown. Put it all into a stew-pan, and pour boihng water enough just to cover it. Simmer very gently two or three hours. If too thick, put more water half an hour before serving. If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth will be better than v'ater: but the currie is richer when made of fresh meat. To Braise Chickens.—Bone them, and fill them with force- meat. Lay the bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew-pan, and the chickens on them. Put to them a few onions, a faggot of hei’bs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or two of sheny. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and then w hite paper; cover the whole close, and put them on a slow stove for two hours. Then take them up, strain the braise, and skim off the fat carefully ; set it on to boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over with it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Befoi’e glazing, put the chicken kito an oven for a few minutes, to give a little colour.' Ducks Roasted.—Serve with a fine gravy; and stufif one with sage and onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of butter, and pepper and salt; let the other be unseasoned. To Boil Ducks.—Choose a fine fat duck, salt it two days, then boil it slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion sauce, but melt the butter with milk instead of water. To Stew Ducks.—Half-roast a duck; put it into a stew-pan with a pint of beef gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, pepper and salt, and a small bit of onion shred as tine as possible. Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean; then add near a quart of green peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an hour longer. Put in a piece of butter and a little flour, and give it one boil; then serve in one dish. To Hash. Diicks.—Cut a cold duck into joints, and warm it, without boiling, in gra^y, and a glass of port wine. To Roast Goose.—After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed