lUSCELli.NEOTJS OBSEETATIONS. 11 and that of soap, which rise and fall together, is likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay in the stock of both. This information the chandler can always give ; they are better for keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed in the cool; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buy- ing, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the family. Paper improves by keeping, and if bought by half or whole reams will be much cheaper than if purchased by the quire. It is priuci- Eally made from rags, of which there is some scarcity, which might e obviated if an order were given to a servant in every family to keep a bag to receive all the waste bits from cuttings out, &c. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregularity ; and many families, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as econo- mical :— Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided, viz.— Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be excluded.— ileat in a cold dry place.—Sugar and sweetmeats require a dry place ; so does salt.—^'andles cold, but not damp.—Dried meats, nams, &c. the same.—liice and all sorts of seeds for puddings, &c. should be closely covered to preserve from insects. Bread is so heavy an article of expense that all waste should he guarded against; and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent it. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers keep it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry to prevent a musty taste. Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Ba.sil, savoury, or knotted marjoram, or London thyme, to be used when herbs are ordered ; but with discretion, as they are very pungent. Ihe be-t means to ymeserve blankets from moths is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use; and they shouhl be shaken occasionally. When sfhled, they should bo waslied, not scoured. .SrKia, by softening the water, savesa great deal of .soap. It shouhl be melted in a large Jug of water, some of which jioiir into tlie tubs and boiler; and when tbe lather becomes weak, add more. 'J’ho new improvement on s^dt .soap is, if jiropf-rly u.sed, a saving of near half in quantity ; and Uiough .something dearer tliaii tlio hard, ro- dnees the prie<; of washing eonsiderahly. Many g'»</d laundresses advise soa[)ing linen in warm water (he night previous to washing, as facilitating the operation with less ’ friction. Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in jiieees Unit will tnako a long square when tirst IcouglLt in, and kept out <d' tbe air two or Three weeks ; for if it dry quick, it will crack, and when wet, break.