TO CuXtE HAMS—TO MAKE A TICKLE. 65 fed ; han" it as above; if large, put to it a pound of bay salt, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful of common salt, all in tine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind downwards, and cover the fleshy parts with the salts. Baste it as often as 3'ou can with the pickle, the more the better. Keep it four weeks, turning it everj^ da.y. Drain it, and throw bran over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is bmmed, and turn it sometimes for ten daj’s. Another way.—Hang the ham, and sprinlde it with salt as above : then rub it every day with the following in flne powder: half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, lor three weeks. Lay it into a pad of water for one night, wipe it quite drv, and smoke it two or three weeks. Another way that gives it a high flavour.—When the weather wfll permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter of a pound of bay salt, the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer ; boil them together, and pour them immediately^ upon the ham; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine powder, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped, and smoke it from three to four weeks, as j'ou approve : the latter will make it harder and give it more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse wrappers), if to be smoked where there is a strong fire. A method of giving a still higher flavour.—Sprinkle the ham with salt, after it has hung two or three days ; let it drain; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander seeds, two ounces of juniper berries, an ounce of pepper, the same quantity of allspice, an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of sal-prunel, a handful of common salt, and a head of shalot, all pounded or cut fine. Boil these all together a few minute.s, and pour them over the ham : this quantity is for one of ten pound.s. Bub and turn it every day, for a fortnight; then sew it lyj in a thin linen bag, and smoke it three weeks. Take care to drain it from the pickle, and rub it in bran before drying. To make a Pickle that will keep for years, tor hams, tongues, or beef, if boiled and skimmed between each parcel of them. To two gallons of spring water put two pounds of coarse sugar, two pounds of bay and two pounds and a half of common salt, and half a pound of saltpetre, in a deep earthen glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover that will fit close. Keep the beef or hams as long as they will bear, before you put them into the pickle ; and sprinkle them with coarse sugar in a nan, from whii;h they must drain. Hub the hams, &c., well with the pickle, and pack them in close ; putting as much as the pan will hold, so that the pickle may cover them. The ])icklo is not to he boiled at first. A small ham may lie fourteen days, a la^-ge one three weeks ; a tongue twelve days, and beef in proper- E