210 LATENDEH AVATl’E—BLACK INK. Lavsndei’ Water.—Take a pint of spirit as above, essential oil of lavender one ounce, essence of ambergris two drams; put all into a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. An excellent Water to prevent Hair from Falling-oflf and to Thicken it.—Put four pounds of unadulterated honey into a stiU, with twelve handfuls of the tendi’ils of vines, and the same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to taste sour. Black Paper for Drawing Patterns. — Mix and smooth lamp-black and sweet-oil: with a bit of flannel cover a sheet or two of large writing-paper with this mixture ; then dab the paper with a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the follow- ing mariner. Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten the corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back of the black paper the pattern to be drawm, and go over it with the point of a steel pencil; the black paper will then leave the impression of the pattern on the under sheet, on which you must now draw it with ink. If you draw patterns on cloth or muslin, do it with a pen dipped in a bit of stone blue, a bit of sugar, and a little water, mixed smooth in a tea-cup, in which it will be always ready for use; if fresh, wet to a due consistence as wanted. Black Ink.—Take a gallon of rain or soft water, and three quarters of a pound of Iflue galls, bruised; infuse them three weeks, stirring daily. Then add four ounces of green copperas, four ounces of logwood chips, six ounces of gum arable, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Another way.—The ink-powder sold in Shoe-lane is one of the best preparations for this useful article. Directions are giveu with it how to mix it; in addition to which, a large cup of sweet wort to two papers of the powder, gives it the brightness of the japan ink. If a packet of six papers is bought together, it costs only eighteen-pence, and that quantity will last a long time. To Cement Broken China.—Beat lime into the most im- palpable powder, sift it through line muslin ; then tie some into a thin muslin, ].ut ou the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then dust some lime quickly ou the same, and unite them exactly. An' excellent Stucco, which will adhere to Wood- work.—Take a bushel of the best stone-lime, a pound of yellow ochre, and a quarter of a pound of brown umber, all in fine powder. Mix tliem with a sufficient quantity of hot (but not boiling) water, to a proper thickness; and lay it on with a w(jitewashcr’s brush, which should be new. If the wall be quite smooth, one or two coats will do; but each must be dry before the next is put on The month of March is the best season for doing this. Mason’s Washes for Stucco—Blue.—-To four pounds of blue vitriol, and a pound of the best whiting^ put a gallon of water, in an iron or brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the