203 AKTIFICIAl asses’ MILK—WATER ORXIEE. stomach. At first a tea-spoouful of rum may be tahen with it, but should only be put in the moment it is to be swallowed. Artificial Asses’ Milk.—Boil together a quart of water, a quart of new milk, an ounce of white sugar-candy, half an ounce of eringo-root, and half an ounce of conserve of roses, till half be wasted. This is astringent, therefore proportion the doses to the effect and the quantity to what will be used while sweet. Ajiother.—Mix two spoonfuls of boiling water, two of milk, and an egg well beaten; sweeten with pounded white sugar- candy. This may be taken twice or thrice a day. Another.—Bod two ounces of hartshorn-shavings, two ounces of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo-root, and one dozen of snails that have been bruised, in two quarts of water, to one. Mix with it an equal quantity of new milk, when taken twice a day. Water Gruel.—Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smootli boil it. Another way.—Eub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal, with two of water, and pour it into a pint of water boiling on the fire ; stir it well, and boil it quick, but take care it does not boil ever. In a quarter of an hour strain it off, and add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be incorporated. Earley Gruel.—"Wash 4 oz. of pearl-barley, boil it in two quarts of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart; strain and return it into the saucepan with sugar, and three- quarters of a pint of port wine. Heap up, and use as wanted. A very agreeable Drink.—Into a tumbler of fresh cold water, pour a table-spoonful of capillaire, and the same of good vinegar. Tamarinds, currants, fresh or in jelly, or scalded currants or cranberries, make excellent drinks ; with a little sugar, or not, as may be agreeable. A Refreshing Drink in a Fever.—Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little wood-sorrel into a stone jug, having first washed and dried them; peel thin a small lemon, and clear from the white ; slice it, and put a bit of the peel in, then pour in three pints of boiling water, sweeten, and cover it close. Another Drink.—Wash extremely u ell an ounce of pearl barley ; shift it twice, then put to it three pints of water, an ounce of sweet almonds beaten fine, and a bit of lemon peel; boil till you have a smooth liquor, then put in a little syrup’of lemons and capillaire. Another.—Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned rai.sins, till near a third be consume d. Strain it on a bit of lemon peel, which remove in an hour, as it gives a bitter taste if left long. A most pleasant Drink.—Put a tea-cupfid of cranberries into a cup of water, grid masli them. Jii the meantime boil two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal aud a bit of