CHEESE TOAST—AXCHOTY TOAST—BETTERED EGGS, lo3 m I that next the bread, and toast the ctlier with a salamander; rub mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. Cheese Toast.—Mix some flue butter, made mustard, and •salt, into a mass ; spread it ou fresh-made thin toasts, and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. Anchovy Toast.—Bone and skin six- or eight anchovies; .pound them to a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal, and then spread it on toasts or rusks. Another way.—Cut tltin slices of bread into any form, and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies, split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub them through a hair sieve, and spread it on the toast when cold. Then quarter iand wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish Tvith parsley or pickles. To Poach Eggs.—Set a stew-pan of water on the fire; when .boiling, slip an egg. previously broken in a cup, into the water ; ^hen the white looks done enough, slide an egg-slice under the egg, and lay it on toast and butter, or spinach. As soon as enough ^are done, serve hot. If not fresh laid, the.y will not poach well, .and without breaking. Trim the ragged parts of the whites, and nnake them look round. Battered Eggs.—Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white together, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then imt that in boiling water, stir it till melted; then xiour that but- ter and the eggs into a saucepan : keep a basin in your hand, just hold the saucepan in the other, over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to warm; pour it into a basin and back ; then hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in the sauce- qpan, and pouring it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg land butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread: or in a basin, to eat with salt fish, or •red herrings. Scotch Eggs.—Boil hard five pullets’ eggs, and without re- unoving the white, cover completely with a fine relishing force- meat, in which let scraped ham, or chopped anchovy, bear a due .proportion. Fry of a beautiful yellow brown, and serve with a :good gravy in the dish. A Pepper-pot.—To three quarts of water, put such vege- tables as you choose ; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two or three onions; in winter, carrot, turnip, onions, and celery. Cut them very small, and stew them with two pounds of neck of mutton, and a pound of pickled pork, till quite tender. Half an hour b‘;fore serving, clear a lobster or crab from the shell, and put it into the stew. Some people choose very small suet-dumplings boiled in the above. Season it with salt and Cayenne. In.stearl of mutton .you may put a fowl. Pepper-pot may bo made of variou.s things, and i.s understood to be a pro])cr mixturo of fish, fl-sli, fowl, vegetable.s, and pulse. A small quantity of rice .should be boiled witli the w hole. The Staffordshire Dish of Frying Herbs and Liver. —Prepare the frying herbs as has been directed among the vege-