YENISON—BEEF. 40 boil it with port wine, water, and a large stick of cinnamon; and when quite smooth take out the cinnamon and add sugar. Claret may be used for it. Make the jelly sauce thus. Beat some currant jelly and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it^»ver the fire till melted. Where jelly runs short, put more wine, and a few lumps of sugar, to the jelly, and melt as above. Serve with French beans. Haunch, Heck, and Shoulder of Venison.—lloast with paste as directed above, and the same sauce. To Stew a Shoulder of Venison.—Let the meat hang till you think fit to dress it; then take out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton fat that have lain a few hoiu’s in a little port wine, sprinkle a little pepper and allspice over it in fine powder, roll it up tight, and tie it. Set it in a stew- pan that Avill only just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy not strong, half a ijint of port wine, and some pepper and allspice. Simmer it close-covered, as slow as you can, for three or four hours. When quite tender take oflT the tape, set the meat in a dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve with currant jelly sauce. This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very fat, and then it should be roasted. The bone should be stewed with it. Breast of Venison.—Do it as the shoulder, or make it into a small pasty. Hashed Venison should be w'armed with its own gravy, or some without seasoning, as before; and only warmed through, not boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the venison. For Venison Pasty look under the head Pastry ; as likewise an excellent imitation. BEEF.—To Keep Beef.—The butcher should take out the kernels in the neck-pieces where the shoulder-clod is taken off, two from each rouncf of beef, and one in the middle, which is called the pope’s eye ; the other from the flap : there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the rump and the aitchbone. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should take out the kernels ; and then rub the salt well into such beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roasting. , n The flesh of cattle that are killed when not perfectly cleared of food, soon spoils. They should fast tweuty-four hours in winter, and double that time in summer before being killed. To Salt Beef or Pork for eating immediately—The piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into the iJOt, take a coarse cloth, flour it w'ell, put the meat in, and fold it up close. Put it into a