216 TO TAKE STAIXS OUT OF MAEBLE. when done; and once a week dry rubbed with bot sand, and a heavy brush the right way of the boards. The sides of stairs or passages on which are carpets, or floor- cloth, should be washed.with sponge instead of linen or flannel and the edges will not be soiled. Different sponges should be ke])t for the two above uses; and those and the brushes should be well washed when done with, and kept in dry places. To Extract Oil from Boards or Stono.—hlake a strong lye of pearl-ashes and soft water; and add as much unslackeS lime as it will take up; stir it together, and let it settle a few minutes; bottle it, and stop close ; have ready some water to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the hoards, it will draw out the colour of them; there- fore do it with care and e.xpeditiou. To Clean Stone Stairs and Halls.—Boil a pound of pipe- makers’ clay, with a quart of water, a quart of small beer, and put in a pit of stone blue. Wash with this mixture, and, when dry, rub the stones witli flannel and a brush. To Blacken the Fronts of Stone Chimney-pieces.— Mix oil-varnish with lamp black, and a little spirit of turpentine to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone with soap and water very clean ; then sponge it n ith clear water; and when perfectly dry, brush it over tv^ ice with this colour, letting it dry betu'een the times. It looks extremely well. The lamp black must be sifted first. To Take Stains out of Marble.—Mix unslacked lime, in finest powder, with the strongest soap lye, pretty thick; and in- stantly- with a painter’s brush, lay it oji the whole of the marble. In two mouths’ time wash it off perfectly clean; then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water ; dip a brush in it, and scour the marble with powder, not as common cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be eflected. To Take Iron Stains out of Marble.—An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till the,y disappear. To Preserve Irons from Bust.—Melt fresh mutton suet, smear over the iron with il while hot; then dust well with uu- slacked lime pounded, and tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared will keep many months. Use no oil for them at any time, except salad oil, there being water in all other. Fire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place, when not used. Another way.—Beat into three pounds of unsalted hogs’ lard, two drains of camphor sliced thin, till it is dissolved ; tben take as much black lead as u ill make it of the colour of broken steel. Dip a rag into it, and rub it thick on the stove, &c., and the steel will never rust, even if wet. When it is to be used, the grease