19 DIRECTIOXS FOR CARVING. between the leg and body, and cut to the bone; then with the fork turn the leg back, and the joint will give way if tlie bird is not old. SVhen the four quarters are thus removed, take off the merry- thought from a and the neck-bones; these last by putting in the knife at c, and pressing it under the long broad part of the bone in the line c, b, then lift it up, and break it off from the part that sticks to the breast. The next thing is, to divide the breast from the carcase, by cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast right down to the tail. Then lay the back upwards, put your knife into the bone half-way from the neck to the rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you, and very neatly take off the two sides- men, and the whole will be done. As each part is taken off, it should be turned neatly on the dish; and care should be taken that what is left goes pro- perly from table. The breast and wdngs are looked upon as the oest parts, but the legs are most juicy in young fowls. After aU, more advantage will be gained by observing those w'ho carve well, and a little practice, than by any written directions whatever. A Pheasant.—The bird in the annexed engraving is as trussed for the spit, with its head under one of its wdngs. "When the skewers arc taken out, and the bird served, the following is the way to carve it:— Fix your fork in the centre of the breast; .slice it down in the lines a, 6; take off the leg on one side in the dotted line b, d ; then cut off the wing on the same side, in the line c, d. Separate the leg and wing on the other side, and then cutoff the slices of breast you divided before. 15e careful how you take off the wings, for if you .should cut too near the neck, a.s at 7, you will hit on the neck- br>ne, from which the wing must he sepa- rated. Cut off the rnerrythmight in the line /> f/i by passing the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts ns in a fowl. I he hrciist, wings, and merry- thought are the ru'.st esteemed; hut th<' leg lias a higher flavour. Partridge.—'Ihe partridge is lu re rciiresentcd as just taken