86 TUENlP-SOtrP—GEEEN PEAS SOtTP. Maccaroni Soup.—Boil a pound of the beat maccaroni in a quart of good stock till quite tender; then take out half, and put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the maccaroni through a fine sieve ; then add together the two liquors, a pint or more of cream, boil- ing hot, the maccaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shilling. A Pepper-pot, to be served in a Tureen.— To three quarts of water put vegetables according to the season; in summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach; in winter, carrots, turnips, celery, and onions in both. Cut small, and stew with two pounds of neck of mutton, or a fowl and a pound of pickled pork, in three quarts of water, till quite tender. On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, add a lobster or crab, cleared from the shells. Season with salt and Cayenne. A small quantity of rice should be put in with the meat. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled with it. Shoidd any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour. Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a due proportion, of fish, fiesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. Turnip Soup.—Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be made into cutlets, &c., and set the remainder on to stew with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water; cover it close, and let it do on a slow fire four or five hours. Strain, and set it by till next day; then take the fat and sediment from it, and simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till tender, seasoning it with salt and pepper. Before serving, rub down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream and the size of a walnut of butter. Let a small roll simmer in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. Old Peas Soup.—Save the water of boiled pork or beef, and if too salt, put as much fresh water to it, or use fresh water en- tirely with roast beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anchovy or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas; the smaller the quantity of water at first the better. Simmer till the peas will pulp through a colander; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that boiled the peas, with two carrots, a. turnip, a leek, and a stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite tender. The last requires less time, an hour will do for it. When ready, put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint rubbed fine, pepper, 'and (if wanted) salt into the tureen, and pour the soup in. Green Peas Soup.—In shelling the peas, divide the old from the .young; put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of water, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepper and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas ; and when you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed them some more water, the