190 OBSKRVATIONS RBSRECTIXG BUT1'?;R. and place between two pewter plates to ripen. If the weather be warm, it will be read}’’ in three weeks. Another.—Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put five quarts of new milk into a pan, and five pints of cold water, and five of hot; when of a proper heat, put in as much rennet as will bring it in twenty minutes, likewise a bit of sugar. When come, strike the skimmer three or four times down, and leave it on the curd. In an hour or two lade it into the vat without touching it; put a two-pound weight on it when the whey has run from it, and the vat is full. Another Sort.—Put as much salt to three pints of raw cream as shall season it; stir it well, and pour it into a sieve in which you have folded a cheese-cloth three or four times, and laid at the bottom. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter plate. Rush Cream Cheese.—To a quart of fresh cream put a pint of new milk, warm enough to make the cream a proper warmth, a bit of sugar, and a little rennet. Set near the fire till the curd comes; fill a vat made in the form of a brick, of wheat straw or rushes sewed together. Have ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed fiat, to rest the vat on, and another to cover it; the vat being open at top and bottom. Next day take it out, and change it as above, to ripen. A half pound weight will be sufllcient to put on it. Another way.—Take a pint of very thick sour cream from the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a napkin on two plates, and pour half into each; let them stand twelve hours, then put them on a fresh wet napkin in one plate, and cover with the same; this do every twelve hours until you find the cheese be- gins to look dry, then ripen it with nut leaves; it will be ready in ten daj’^s. Fresh nettles, or two pewter plates will ripen cream cheese very well. Observations respecting Butter.—There is no one article of family consumption more in use, of great variety in goodness, or that is of more consequence to have of a superior quality, than this, and the economising of which is more necessary. The sweet- ness of butter is not affected by the cream being turned, of which it is made. When cows are in turnips, or eat cabbages, the taste is very disagreeal>le; and the following ways have been tried with advantage to obviate it:— When the milk is strained into the pans, put to every six gal- lons one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one ounce of nitre in a pint of spring water, and put a quarter of a pint to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or, when you churn, keep back a quarter of a pint of the sour cream, and put it into a well-scalded pot, into which you are to gather the next cream ; stir that well, and do so with every fresh addition. To Make Butter.—During summer, skim the milk when the sun has not heated the dairy; at that season it should stand for butter twenty-four hoars without skimming, and forty-eight ia