60 COLLAEED PIG’s HEAB—DRIEB IIOg’s CHEEKS. witli peas; and it must be washed first, and then simmered till all is tender. To Collar Pig’s Head.—Scour the head and cars nicely; take off the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and tlie brain; lay it into water, one night; then drain, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days. Boil it enough to take out the bones, tlien lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other to make the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears ; and, if you approve, put the pig’s feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow-heels. Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil till q^uite tender, then put a good weight upon it, and do not take off the covering till cold. If you choose it to be more like brawn salt it longer, and let the f)roportion of saltpetre be greater, and put in also some pieces of ean pork; and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and water boiled with vinegar, and is a very convenient thing to have in the house. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it, either with or without butter. To Dry Hog’s Cheeks.—Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split the head, taking off the upper bone, to make the chawl a good shape: rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the following day: cover the head with half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay salt, a little common salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head be often turned ; after ten days, smoke it for a week like bacon. To Force Hog’s jEars.—Parboil Lvo pair of ears, or take some that have been soused; make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread- crumbs, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks of two eggs; raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine colour ; then pour away the fat, and drain them: make ready half a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonfuls of made mustard, a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion whole, and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the ears into a stew-pan, and cover it close; stew it gently for half an hour, shaking the pan often. When done enough, take out the onion, place the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be added to the above. Different ways of Dressing Pig’s Feet and Ears.— Clean carefully and soak some hours, and boil them tender; then lake them out; boil some vinegar and a little salt with some of the water, and when cold put it over them. When they are to be dressed, dry them, cut the feet in two, and slice the ears; fry, and servo with butter, mustard, and vinegar. They may be either done in batter or only floured. Pig’s Feet and Ears Fricasseed.—Put no vinegar into