112 QUAKING PUDDING—XEANSPAKENT PUDDING. hours ; and serve with pudding sauce, the juice of half a iemon, and a little nutmeg. Quaking Pudding.—Scald a quart of cream ; when almost cold put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmegs and sugar; tie it close in a buttered cloth ; boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, lest it should crack Serve with melted butter, a little wine, and sugar. Duke of Cumberland’s Pudding.—Mix six ounces of grated bread, the same quantity of currants well cleaned and picked, the same of beet suet finely shred, the same of chopped apples and also of lump sugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a pinch of salt, the rind of a lemon minced as fine as possible; and citron, orange and lemon, a large spoonful of each cut thin. Mix thoroughly, and put into a basin, cover very close with floured cloths, and boil three hours. Serve it with pudding sauce, and the juice of half a lemon, boiled together. Transparent Pudding.—Beat eight eggs very well; put them into a stew-pan, with half a pound of sugar pounded tine, the same quantity of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on the lire, and keep stirring it till it thickens. Then set it into a basin to cool; put a rich putT paste round the edge of the dish ; pour in your pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light and clear. You may add candied orange and citron, if you like. Batter Pudding.—Bub three spoonfuls of fine flour ex- ti'omely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk; simmer till it thickens; stir in two ounces of butter ; set it to cool; then add the yolks of three eggs: flour a cloth that has been wet, or butter a basin, and put the batter into it; tie it tight, and plunge it into boiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a half, and serve it with plain butter. If approved, a little ginger, nut- meg, and lemon peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. Batter Pudding with Meat.—Make a batter with flour, milk, and eggs ; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding dish; then put seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shi-ed onion; pour the remainder of the batter over, and bake in a slow oven. Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being first cleared of most of the fat. Rice Small Pudding.—Wash two large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of batter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one bod. When cold mix four yolks and two whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg, to taste; and add grated lemon, and a little cinnamon. Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment befoi’e to be eaten, with sweet sauce in the dish, or a boat. Plain Rice Pudding.—Wash and pick some rice; throw among it some pimento finely pounded, but not much; tie the rice