55 5I0CK TCKTLK. ■parslej*, mace, nutmeg, salt, and wliite pepper, mixed well; season it high with these; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of tine ham, or a beautifully-coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Koll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the •.tape, as for other collars. Mock Turtle.—Bespeak a calf’s head with the skin on, cut it ;in half, and clean it well; then half boil it, take all the meat off' -in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beef broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in ffour enough to thicken the gravj'^: stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils ; skin it carefull}-, . and then put in the head; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and • simmer it till the meat is qiute tender. About ten minutes before ’you serve, put in some basil, taiTagon, chives, parsle.y, Cayenne, Eepper, and salt to your taste ; also two spoonfuls of mushroom etchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the : tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat balls, and small eggs. A Cheaper way.—Prepare half a calf’s head, without the •skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the bones, and put ■them into a saucepan with some gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. 5ave read}' two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, .and cut into small pieces ; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into : pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it; then add the meats as above, and •stew. Half a pint of sherry, an anchovy, two spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, the same of mushroom ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before. Balls, Ac. Another.—Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine cow- heels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of allspice, mace, and sweet herbs ; cover them with water, then tie a paper over the ;pan, and set it in an oven for three hours. When cold, take off" the fat very nicely; cut the meat and feet into bits an inch and a half square, remove the bones and coarse parts, and then put the rest on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and oneof mush- room ketchup, lialf a pint of sherry or Madeira wine, a little mushroom powder, and the jelly of tlic meat. AVhen hot, if it wants any more seasoning, add some ; and serve with hard eggs, forcemeat balls, a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of so}'. This is a very ea.sy way, and the dish is excellent. Another.—StC'A' a pound and a half of serair of mutton, with from three pints of water to a quart: then set the broth on, with a calfs-foot and a cow-heel, cover the stew-pan tight, and simmer till you can get off the meat from the bones in juxii’cr bits. Set it on a;;ain with the broth, a quarter of’ a pint of Madeira v ine, or ‘sherry, a large onion, half a tea-HiKionfid of Cayenne paj)cr, a bit of lemon-peeI, two anchovies, sonu; sweet herbs, eighteen oysters fnt into pieces, and fhen chop{)cd fine, a tea-spoonful of salt, a little