78 TO STEW GIBLETS—riGEOXS lUid dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pepper and asten it tight at the neck and rumi), and then roast. Put A ^ distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should he skewered on the breast-bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by ^ming flatted to table. Let a good gravj" be sent in the dish. Gravy and apple sauce ; gooseberry sauce for a green goose. _ To Stew Giblets.—Do them as avOI be directed for giblet pie (under the head Pies); season them with salt and pepper and a very small piece of mace. Before serAung, give them one bod with a cup of cream, and a jiiece of butter rubbed in a tea-spoon- ful of flour. Pigeons may be dressed in so many ways, that they are very useful. The good flavour of them depends very much on their being cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird re- quires so much Avashing. Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be stewed or made into a i>ie ; in either case, care must be taken not to overdo them, which Avill make them stringy. They need only be heated up in graA\y made ready, and forcemeat balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a stuffing into them. If for a pie, let beef steaks be stewed in a little water, and put cold under them, and cover each pigeon Avith a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist. Season as usual, and put eggs. To Stew Pigeons.—Take care that they are quite fresh, .and carefully cropped, draAvu, and Avashed ; then soak tliem half an hour. In tlie meantime cut a hard vA'liite cabbage in slices (as if for pickling) into water; drain it, and then boil it in milk and Avater; di’ain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stcAv- pau. Put the pigeons upon it, but fli’st season them Avell with pepper and salt, and cover them Avith the remainder of the cab- bage. Add a little broth, and stcAv gently till the pigeons are tender; then put among them tAvo or three spoonfuls of cream, and a piece of butter and flour for thickening. After a boil or two, serve the bii-ds in the middle, and the cabbage placed round them. Another way.—Stew the birds in a good brown gravy, either stuffed or not; and seasoned high with spice and mushrooms fresh and a little ketchup. To Broil Pigeons.—After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt them and broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. Roast Pigeons should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or AA'hole, and seasoned within. Serve Avith parsley and butter. Peas or asparagus shoAild be dressed to cat with them. To Pickle Pigeons.—Bone them; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in fine poAvder ; then turn them again, and tie the neck and rump Avith thread. Put them into boiling water, let them boil a minute or tAvo to iflump