74 XO BOIL FOWLS Wmi lUCE—DAVENPORT FOWLS them, and put them into boiling water.—See time of dressing, page 72. Serve with parsley and butter ; oyster, lemon, hver, or celery sauce. If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usuall3'^ served to eat with them ; as likewise greens. To Boil Fowl with Bice.—Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton broth well skimmed ; and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, laj' it in the middle of a dish, and the rice round it without the broth. The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less liquor the fowl is done with the better. Gravy, or parsley and butter for sauce. Fowls Roasted.—Serve with egg sauce, bread sauce, or gar- nished with sausages and scalded parsley. A large barn-door fowl well hung, should be stuffed in the crop with sausage meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with bread sauce. The head should be turned under the wing, as a turkcj". Fowls Broiled.— Split them down the back; pepper, salt, and broil. Serve with mushroom sauce. Another way.—Cut a large fowl into four quarters, put them on a bird spit, and tie that on another spit, and half- roast ; or half-roast the whole fowl, and finish either on the gridiron, which will make it less dry than if wholly broiled. The fowl that is not cut before roasted, must be split down the back after. Davenport Fowls.—Hang .young fowls a night: take the livers, hearts, and tendcrest parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that the water may not get in. Boil them in salt and water till almost done ; then drain them, and put them into a stew-pan, with butter enough to brown them. Serve them with fine melted butter, and a spoonful of ketchup, of either sort, in the dish. A Nice Way to Dress a Fowl for a Small Dish.—Bone, singe, and wash a young fowl: make a forcemeat of four ounces of veal, two ounces of scraped lean of ham, two ounces of fat bacon, two hard yolks of eggs, a few sweet herbs chopped, two ounces of beef suet, a tea-spoonful of lemon peel minced quite line, an anchovy, salt, pepper, and a very little Cayenne. Beat all in a mortar, with a tea-cupful of crumbs, and the yolks and whites of three eggs. Stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the legs and wings inwards; tie the neck and rump close. Stew the fowl in a white gravy: when it is done through and tender, add a large cupful of cream, and a bit of butter and flour ;