SALT BEEF—BEEF A-LA-MODE. 41 ■*ot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would auy other iilt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or uve days. Great attention is requisite in salting meat; and in the country, > .here large quantities are cm-ed, this is of particidar importance, deef and pork should be well sprinkled, and a few hours after- • . ards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with salt; which method >y cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from -asting strong. It should be turned every da}^; and if wanted oon, shonld be rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt -neat, will find it answer well to bou up the pickle, skim it, and ‘rhen cold, pour it over meat that has been sprinkled and drained’ To Salt Beef Red, which is extremely good to eat rresh from the Pickle, or to hang to Dry.—Choose a piece :>f beef with as httle bone as you can (the flank is most proper), i:prinkle it and let it drain a day; then rub it with common salt, ;ialtpefre, and bay salt, but only a small proportion of the saltpetre, .md you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder, blub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn 11. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from ; he pickle ; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth when heated ^th wood, or send it to the bake-house. A few days will smoke i t. A httle of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. Itt eats well boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be ^grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely kender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold fold rt in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two L jr three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. The Dutch Way to Salt Beef.—Take a lean piece of beef; mb it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. Tn three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre oeaten fine : rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fort- :.aight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large •weight; hang it to drj- in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down rwery day. Boil it in pump water, and press it: it will grate or mt into shivers, like Dutch beef. Beef a-la-mode.—Choose a piece of thick flank of a fi nc , aeifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free Urom yellow ; let each bit be near an inch thick ; dip tlicm into 'vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black :pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in fine powder, with panslcy, . 'jhivcs, thyme, savoury, and knotted marjoram, shred as small as ^possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife make holes deep • jnough to let in the larding ; then rub the beef over with the sea- ssoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned ])ot jver a fire or rather stove ; three or four onion.s must bo fried brown md put to the beef, with two or three carrots, one turnip, a head jr two of celery, and a small quantity of water; let it simmer .gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the meat twice.