194 TO MAKE HEKS LAY—TO PATTEN FOWLS 071 CHICKENS, it may be necessary to beep them in a basket of wool till the others come forth. The day after tliey are hatched give them some crumbs of white bread, and small (or rather cra(^ed) grits soaked in milk. As soon as they have gained a little strength, feed them with curd, cheese-parings, cut small, or any soft food, but nothing sour, and give them clean water twice a day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow her about, which will bo in two or three weeks ; and be sure to feed her well. The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which softens it, and then passes into the gizzard, which by constant friction mace- rates it; and this is facilitated by small stones, which are gene- rally found there, and which help to digest the food. If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her be well washed with a decoction of white lupins. The ))ip in fowls is occasioned by their drinking dirty water, or taking filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue is the symptom. Pull the scale off with your nail, and nib the tongue with some salt; and the complaint will be removed. It answers well to pay some boy employed in the farm or stable, so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his interest then to save them from being purloined, which nobody but one in his situation can prevent; and sixpence or eightpence a score will be buyinc eggs cheap. To Make Hens Lay.—Dissolve an ounce of Glauber’s salts in a quart of water; mix the meal of potatoes with a little of the liquor, and feed the hens two days, giving them plenty of clean water to drink. The above quantity is sufficient for six or eight hens. They should have plenty of clean water in reach. In a few days they will produce eggs. To Fatten Fowls or Chickens in Four or Five Days.— Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is quite swelled out; you may add a tea-spoonful or two of sugar, but it will do well with- out. Feed them three times a day, in common pans, giving them only as much as will quite fill them at once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set in water, that no sourness may be conveyed to the fowls, as that prevents them from fattening. Give them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to drink; but the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked the better. Py this method the flesh will have a clear whiteness which no other food gives ; and when it is considered how far a pound of rice will go, and how much time is saved by this mode, it will be found to be as cheap as barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen houi’s before iionltry be killed. To Choose Eggs at Market, and Preserve them.—Put the large end of the eggtoj'our tongue ; if it feels w arm it is new. In new-laid eggs there is a small division of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and isrperceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will be pretty clear. If they sha'*" they are not IresK