177 THE BEV. MR. HAGGET's ECONOMICAL BREAD. The Reverend Mr. Hagget’s Economical Bread.— Only the coarse flake bran is to be removed from the flour; of this take five pounds, and boil it in rather more than four gallon? of water, so that when perfectly smooth, you may have three gal- lons and three quarts of bran-water clear. With this knead fifty-six pounds of the flour, adding salt and yeast in the same way and proportion as for other bread. When ready to bake, divide it into loaves, and bake them two hours and a half. Thus made, flour will imbibe three quarts more of bran-water than of plain, so that it not only produces a more nutritious and substantial food, but makes an increase of one-fifth the usua. quantity of bread, which is a saving of one day’s consumption out of six ; and if this was adopted throughout the kingdom, it would effect a saving of ten millions sterling a year, when wheat was at the price it stood in the scarcity, reckoning the consumption to be two hundred thousand bushels a day. The same quantity of flour, which, kneaded with water, produces sixty-nine pounds eight ounces of bread, will, in the above way, make eighty-three pounds eight ounces, and gain fourteen pounds. At the ordinary price of flour four millions would be saved. When ten days old, if put into the oven for twenty minutes, this bread will appear quite new again. Rice and Wheat Bread.—Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till it becomes perfectly soft; and when it is of a proper warmth, mix it extremely well with four pounds of flour, and yeast and salt as for other bread; of yeast about four large Spoonfuls ; knead it extremely well; then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the flour shoidd be reserved to make up the loaves. The whole expense, including baking, will not exceed three •shillings, for which eight pounds and a half of exceeding .good bread wiU be produced. If the rice should require :more water it must be added, as some rice swells more than other. French Bread.—With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of three, and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, ’a little salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as ■much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light :dough. Stir it about, but do not knead it. Have ready three .quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them. Set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp ■when done. To Discover -whether Bread has been Adulterated •with Waiting or Chalk.—Mix it with lemon-juice, or strong vinegar, and if this puts it into a state of fermentation, you may be certain it has a mixture of alkaline particles, and tliesc are sometimes in large quantities in bakers’ bread. To Detect hones, Jalap, Ashes, &c., in Bread.—Slice 1 larg-e loaf very thin, the crumb only ; set it over the lire with water, and let it boil gently a long time ; take it off, and pour the water into a vessel; let it stand till nearly cold, then ijour it gently