TVHITE OOOSEBEERT JAM—RASPBERRY JAM. 161 Another.—Gather your goosebemes (the clear white or green sort) when ripe ; top and tail, and weigh them, a pound to three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water ; boil and skim the sugar and water, then put the fruit, and boil gently till clear; then break, and put into small pots. White Gooseberry Jam.—Gather the finest white goose- berries, or green if you choose, when just ripe; top and tail them. To each pound put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the water, as directed in page 154, then add the fruit; simmer gently till clear, then break it, and in a few minutes put the jam into small pots. Gooseberry Hops.—Of the largest green walnut kind, take and cut the bud end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole ; pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten five or six together, by running the thread through the bottoms, till they are of the size of a hop. Lay vine leaves at the bottom of a tin preserving pan, cover them with the hops, then a layer of leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close down that no steam can get out; set it by a slow fire till scalding hot; then take it off till cold, and so do till on opening while cold the gooseberries are of a good green. Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skim it well; when half cold, put in the fruit; next day give it one boil, and do this tlirice. If the hops are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week ; but if to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of ginger in boiling; when skimmed and clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and when cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup be found too sour, a httle sugar may be added and boiled in it, before the hops that are for drying have their last boil. The extra-syrup will serve for pies, or go towards other sweet- meats. Raspberry Jam.—Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar; put the former into a preserving pan, boil and break it; stir con- stantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is wa.sted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. Thus way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in at first. Another way,—Put the fruit into a jar in a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from it, then take away a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit; boil and bruise It half an hour, then put in the weight ot the fruit in sugar, and adding the same qTiantityof currant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. The raspberry-juice will serve to put into brandy, or may be boiled with it-s weight in sugar for making the jelly for raspl)crry- ice or cream. To Preservo Greengages.-Choose the largest, when they begin to soften ; split them without paring, and slrcw a part ot the sugar, of which you have previously weiglicd an ecpial quantity. Blanca the kemels with a small sharp knife. Next flay, pour (,h(>