PIGEONS IX JELLV—TO POT PIGEONS. 79 •take them out. and dry them well: then put them boiliug hot into '.the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white n ine -and white-wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, sliced :ginger and nutmeg, and two or three bay leaves. Wlien it boils .up. put the pigeons in. If they are small, a quarter of an hour •wdl do them; but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then Take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is ccold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar. tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. Instead of larding, put into some a stuffing made of hard yolks I. of eggs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, jsalt, and mace. Pigeons in Jelly.—Save some of the liquor in which a kinuckle of veal has been boiled; or boil a calf’s or neat’s foot; put The broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, Mome white pepper, lemon peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the ipigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to get cold. Season as like, before baking. AYhen done take them out of the liquor, I’cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by tooihng it with the whites of two eggs ; strain it through a thick icloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must :oe peifectl}' removed, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and rround them rough. The same, a beautiful Dish.—Pick two very nice pigeons, land make them look well as possible by singeing, washing, and rcleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but cchp the nails close to the clau's. Boast them of a very nice brown, land when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. IHave ready a savourj-jeUy, as before, and with it half-hll a bowl ■ of a size that is proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be •served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no ^■gravj' hangs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the ;jeUy. Before the rest of it begins to set, pom* it over the birds, so las to be three inches above the feet. This should be done full :twenty-four hours before serving. This dish has a very hand.some appearance in the middle range of a second course, or when served ivith the jelly roughed large, it rmakes a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head •should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, land the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. To Pot Pigeons.—Let them be quite fresh, clean them carc- rfolly, and season them with salt and pepper: lay them close in a ■small deep pan, for the smaller the surface and the closer they arc packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, then with verj' thick paper tied down, and bake them. AVhen cold, put them dry into pots that will hold two or three in each ; •and pour butter over them, using that w hicli was baked a.s part. 'Observe that the butter should be pretty thick if they arc to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made w ilh veal, bacon, &c., and y