124 VEAL PATTIES—SWEET PATTIES—APPLE PUEES. Lobster Patties.—INrakc with the same seasoning, a little cream, and the smallest bit of butter. Podovies, or Beef Patties.—Shred underdone dressed beef with a little fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or onion. Make a plain ])aste, roll it thin, and cut it in shape like an apple pufl', till it ndth the mince, pinch the edges, and fry them of a nice brown. The paste should be made with a small quantity of butter, egg, and milk. Veal Patties.—Mince some veal that is not quite done with a little parsley, lemon peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt; add a little cream, and gravy just to moisten the meat; and if you have any ham scrape a little, and add to it. Do not warm it till the patties are baked. Turkey Patties.—Mince some of the white part, and with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, ci’cam, and a very little bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. Sweet Patties.—Clioj) the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, of which you use tlie liquor for jelly, with two apples, one ounce of orange and lemon peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice ; mis with t hem half a nutmeg grated, the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of brandy, and four ounces of currants washed and dried. Bake in small patty-pans. Patties resembling Mince Pies.—Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon peel candied, and fresh cur- rants, a little n ine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. Bake as before. Apple Puffs.—Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon peel shred fine, taking as little of the apple juice as you can. Bake them in thin paste, in a quick oven : a quarter of an hour will do them, v hen small. Orange, or quince marmalade, is a great improvement. Cinnamon pounded, or orange-liower water, in change. Lemon Puffs.—Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double refined sugar ; grate the rind of two large lemons, and mix it well with the sugar; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs a great while, add them to the sugar and peel, and beat it for an hour ; make it up in any shape you please, and bake it on paper put on tin plates, in a moderate oven. Do not remove the paper till cold. Oiling the paper will make it come off with case. Cheese Puffs.—Cream cheese-curd from the whey, and beat half a pint basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a half of flour, three eggs, but only one white, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in small very round cakes, on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding sauce. Excellent Light Puffs.—Mix two spoonfuls of flour, a little gi’ated lemon peel, some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a little loaf sugar, and one egg; then fry it enough, but not brown; beat it in a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks : put a