125 VENISON PASTT. Quantitj' of lard in a frving-pan, and when quite hot drop a uessert-spoouful of batter at a time: turn as thej" brown. Servo them immediately with sweet sauce. To prepare Venison for Pasty.—Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain drawn-beef gmvy, but not a strong one; lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is, a saucepan of water over the fire, simmer three or four hours— then leave it in a cold place till next day. Eemovethe cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, or pimento, as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the ri^iainder for the time of serving. If the venison be thus prepared, it will not require so much time to bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the imder part is seldom done through. Venison Pasty.—A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but it must be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that of a fine well-hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty-four hours in equal parts of rape, vinegar and port. The shoulder being sinen-y, it will be of advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days, and when to be used, wipe it perfectly clean from it, and the wine. A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be baked too much; but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven will be quite sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will be preserved. Either in a shoulder or side, the meat must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be proportioned to each person without breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay some pepper and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter; then the meat nicely packed, that it may be sufficiently done, but not lie hollow to harden at the edges. The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton —of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish, then lay butter on the venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick crust, but do not put one under the meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven ; put it into the middle by a funnel, quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should be seasoned with pepper and salt. To make a Pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as well as Venison.—Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef, or a fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. Beat it very well with a rolling-pin ; then rub ten pounds of meat with four ounces of sugar, and pour over it a glass of port, and the same of vinegar, ly.t it lie five days and nights; wash and wij>e the meat very dry, and sf-a-son it very high with the best Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and .salt. I.,ay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put about a pound of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edges, and cover with a thick one, or it will be overdone be- fore the meat be soaked. It n.u.st be done in a slow ov<m. He-, the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water than will cover them, and one glass of port, a little pepper and salt,