38 VENISOIi. water into the dripping-pan, and baste for a little while with this, before using its own fat or dripping. When diy, dust it with flour, and baste as usual. Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy; it should only be sprinkled when almost done. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for what is required, are the first articles of a good cook’s atten- tion in roasting. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young; not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy more in. A piece of paper should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served. When you wish fried things to look as well as possible, do them tioice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine, will not look well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling hot the moment the fish, meat, &c., are put in, and kept so tiU finished ; a small quantity never fries well. To Keep Meat Hot.—It is to take it up when done, though the company may not be come; set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it so as not to touch the meat, and then throw a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. VENISON.—To Keep Venison.—Keep the venison dry, wash it with milk and water very clean, and dry it with clean cloths till not the least damp remains ; then dust pounded ginger over every part, which is a very good preventive against the fly. By thus managing and watching, it will hang a fortnight. When to be used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, and dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. To Dress Venison.—A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half or three quarters roasting; doe, only three hours and a quarter. Venison should be rather under than over done. Spread a sheet of white paper with butter and put it over the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt; then lay a coarse paste on strong paper and cover the haunch, tie if with fine packthread, and set it at a distance from the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often; ten minutes before serving take off the paste, draw the meat nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good deal of flour to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish (unless the venison has none), and made thus:—Cut oflT the fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set it iij steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes, just to brown one side; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, cover close for an hour, and simmer it gently; then uncover it, and stew tdl the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. Currant jelly sauce must be served in a boat. Formerly pap sauce was eaten with venison; -which, as some still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate white bread and