138 TICKLED WALNUTS—PICKLED MUSHROOMS. metal vessels, wliicli, when vinegar is imt into them, become highly poisonous, few people like to eat them. To Pickle Walnuts.—When they will hear a pin to go into them, put a brine of salt and water boiled, and stroug enough to bear an egg, on them, being quite cold first. It must be well skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days ; then change the brine, let them stand six more ; then drain them, and pour over them in the jar a pickle of the best white wine vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard- seed, and horse-radish; all boiled together, but cold. To every hundred of walnuts put six spoonfuls of mustard-seed, and two or thi’ee heads of garlic or shalot; but the latter is least strong. Thus done, they will be good for several years, if kept close covered. The air will soften them. They will not be fit to eat under six months. The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when all the walnuts are used. Another way.—Put them into a jar, cover them with the best vinegar cold, let them stand four months; then pour off the pickle, and boil as much fresh vinegar as will cover the walnuts, adding to every three quarts of vinegar one quarter pound of best Durham mustard, a stick of horse-radish sliced, one half ounce of black pepper, one half ounce of cloves, one ounce of ginger, one half ounce of allspice, and a good handful of salt; pour the whole, boiling hot, upon the walnuts, and cover them close; they will be fit for use in three or four months. You may add two ounces of garlic, or shalot, but not boiled in the vinegar. Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the first four months, you may make excellent ketchup. An excellent Way to Pickle Muskrooms, to preserve the Flavour.—Duttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt; and from the larger take out the red inside, for when they are Ijlack they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them in a stew-pan, with some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. To Pickle Eed Cabbage.—Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red cab- bage. Those who like the flavour of spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will look of a beautiful red. Mushroom Ketchup.—Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them now and then for three days. Tlien let tliem stand for twelve, till there is a thick scum over; shain, and boil the liquor with