93 STBOXG FISH GEATT—SAUCES. Strong Fish Gravy.—Skia two or tliree eels, or some flounders; gut and Avash them very clean, cut them into small pieces, and piit into a saucepan. Cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spoonful of horse-raddish. Cover close and simmer; add a bit of butter and flour and boil with the above. Savoury Jelly, to put over Cold Pies.—Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that or mutton ; or, if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcasses, necks, and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sutEcient, observing to give consistence by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly till quite strong, strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water to pi’event waste. Jelly to cover Cold Fish.—Clean a maid, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf’s-foot, or cow-heel, a stick of horse-raddish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of lemon peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Stew until it will jelly, strain it off; when cold remove every bit of fat; take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil with- out stirring, and after a few minutes set it by to stand half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve with a cloth in it. Cover the fish with it when cold. SAUCES, &o. A very good Sauce, especially to hide one bad Colour of Fowls. — Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded parsley and hard eggs ; add salt, and mix them with bur'er. boil them up, and pour over the fowls. This will do for roast rabbit. Wnite Sauce for Fricassee of Fowls, Rabbits, White Meat, Fish, or Vegetables.—It is seldom noces.sary to buy meat for this favourite sauce, as the proportion of that llavour is bTit small. 'I he water that has boilccl fowls, veal, or rabbit; or a little broth, that maybe in the house; or tlie feet and necks of chicken; or raw or dressed veal will suffice. StcAV Avith a little water any of these, with a bit of lemon peel, some sliced onion, some white peppfwcorns, a little pounded mace or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good, then strain it and