DUTCn FirMiCEKT—SOMTBSETSHIKE FIEMIXY. 141 Strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil till it be as thich as hasty pudding ; stirring it veil all the time. When first strained, put m one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water. Put it into shallow dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cyder milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good. ' Dutch Flummery.—Boil two ounces of isinglass in a pint and a half of water very gently half an hour; add a pint of white wine, the juice of tluree, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the essence, and with them add as much more sugar as shall make it sweet enough; '.and having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour it into ; a basin; stir it till half cold; then let it settle, and put it into a imelon shape. Pace Flummery.—Bod with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon •peel, and cinnamon; mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour :as will make the whole of a good consistence ; sweeten, and add a •spoonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond beaten; boil it, observing it do not burn ; pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking :out the spice, TMien cold, turn the flummery into a dish, and ;serve with cream, milk, or custard round; or put a tea-cupiul of cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a .lemon squeezed, and sugar. Somersetshire Firmity.—To a ciuartof ready-boiled wheat, -put by degrees two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and ■.then four ounces of currants picked clean and washed; stir them ■and boil tdl they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonfuls of milk; add this to the wheat; stir them together while over the fire ; then sweeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some persons like it best warm. Curds and Cream.—Put three or four pints of milk into a ;pan a little warm, and then add rennet or gallino. When the curd is come, lade it with a saucer into an earthen shape per- • forated, of any form you please. Fill it up as the whey drains off, -without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before wanted, it is very light; but those who like it harder may have it ^o, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, to be put in the dish, or into a gla.^s bowl, to serve with tlie curd. Another Way.—To four quarts of new milk warmed, put •from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, according to its sour- aes.s; keep the pan covered until the curd be of firmness to cut three or four times across with a saucer ; as the whey leaves it, out it into a .shape, ami fill up until it be solid cnougli to take the orrn. Serve with cream jilain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and emon. A Curd Star.—Set a quart of new millc upon the fire with two or three blades of mace ; and, v, hen ready to boil, put to it he yolk.s and wliitcs of nine eggs well beaten, and us much salt IS w ill lie upon a .small knife’s )>oirit. Let it boil till tlic whey is ?lcar; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair sieve; season it with