108 OBSEEVATIONS ON MAKING PUDDINGS AND PANCAKES. half the quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cress, a few leaves of borage, and white beet leaves ; wash, and boil them a little ; then drain, and press out the water; cut them small: mix, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt. Mix a batter of flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs; cover with a good crust and bake. Raised Crust for Meat Pies or Fowls, &c.—Boil water with a little fine lard, an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the i^aste as stiff as you can to be srnooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating it with the rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : Boll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bot- tom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather farther out, and pinching both together; put egg between the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie, and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but in the latter case the tin should be but- tered, and carefull3’" taken off when done enough; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With a feather, put egg over at first. PUDDINGS, &e.—Observations on making Puddings and Pancakes.—The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes disagreeably, which arises from the cloth not being nicety washed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured when to be used. If bread, it should be tied loose ; if batter, tight over. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients should not mix. Batter pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve, when all is mixed. In others the eggs separately. The pans and basins must be always buttered. A pan of cold water should be ready and the pudding dipt in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not adhere to the cloth. Very good puddings may be made without eggs; but they must have as little milk as will mix, and must bod three or four hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs. Or snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one egg, and the article it is used in will be equally good. Ihis is a useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls at the