GEXERAL DIRECTIONS RESPECTING SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 83 with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in melted butter, popper and salt; or larded. For the manner of trussing a rab- oit tor either roasting or boiling see page 77. Boiled and smothered with onion saucethe butter to be melted with milk instead of water. Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same liver sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed (page 75) for chickens. In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &c. In tlus way they are excellent when young. Potted. To make a Rabbit Taste much like Hare.—Choose one that is young, but full grown ; hang it in the skin three or four days; then skin it, and lay it without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice in verj" fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for forty hours, then stuff it and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in. To Pot Rabbits.—Cut up two or three young but full-grown ones, and take the leg-bones off at the thigh ; pack them as close as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcasses, but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan, then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The fivers also should be added, as they eat well. To Blanch Rabbit, Fowl, &c., is to set it on the fire in a small quantity of cold water and let it boil; as soon as it boils it is to be taken out and put into cold water for a few minutes. SOUPS AND GRAVIES. Geraeral Directions respectinrj Soups and Gravies. When there is fear of the gravy-meat being spoilt before it is wanted, season well and fry it lightly, which will preserve it two davs longer ; but the gravy is best when the juices are fresh. When soups or gravies arc to be put bv, let them be changed every day into fresli scalded pans. \Vhatcvcr lias vegetables boiled in it will turn .sour sooner than the juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, &c., in rnetal. When fat remains on any soup a cupful of flour and water, mixed quite smooth, and boiled in, will take it ofl'. If richness or tfreater consistency be wanted, a good lump of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will give either of these qualities. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the in-