JUSCELLANEOtrS OBSEEVATIO:N'3. 9 valuable acquirements made, and the good actions performed by an active woman. If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that the regularity and good management of the heads will be insuffi- cient, if not seconded by those 'who are to execute orders. It be- hoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his service ; to be very minute in investigating the character he re- ceives, ami equally cautious and scrupulously just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, many bad people would be incapaci- tated for doing mischief, by abusing the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a servant, wall be laid to the charge of that master or mistress who knowing, or having well- founded su>picions of any such faults, is prevailed upon by false pity or entreaty, to slide him into another place. There are, how- ever, some who are unfortunately capricious, and often refuse to give a character because they are disjjieased that a servant leaves their service : but this is unpardonable, and an absolute robbery, ser- vants hav ng no inheritance, and depending on their fair name for employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and to encourage the good Servant, are actions due to society at large ; and such as are honest, frugal and attentive to their duties should be liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with zeal to acquit them.selves. It may be but proper to observe that a retributive justice usually marks persons in that station sooner or later even in tliis world. The extravagant and idle in servitude are ill prepared for the in- dustry and sobriety on which their own future welfare so essentially depends. Th< ir faults, and the attendant punishment, come home whent’ney have children of their own ; find sometimes much sooner. They will their own folly and wickedness perpetuated in their offspring, whom they must not expect to be better than the example and instruction given by themselves. It was the ob-ervition of a very sensible and experienced woman, that she coidd always read the fate of her servants who married ; those who had he- n lai^hfiil and industrious in her service, con- tinued their good habits in tln ir own families, and became res[)ect- ahle memhersof the eommunity ; those who were theeoiitrary, never, were succ' , .ml, and not urifrcquerillv were reiliiced to tlu^ i)aridi. A proper quantity of household urtieles should he alwa3's ready, and more bought in before the otfuTs he consumed, to prevent iu- convenience, »speeially in the country. A hill of j)'ir''<ls and roei jpt should he ref|uin'd, oven if tlio money he f>aid at the time of purehase ; and, to avoitl tiii.sf.dces, l(,t the gwf-; compared with tliese when first brought home. Ihou.'h it is very di.sagrc'eahle to siispr et any one’s hoiic..tj’, and perhaps rnistikes fiave been unintentional, yet it is pniibut to weigh meat, Rug.irs, ficc., wdon brought in, and eotiipaie with tlio charge. i he hiiteher should he ordert rl to senil the weight with the meat, and ttie cook to file these cheeks, to ho c.vamiaed when the wecklv bill shall he delivered.