FRICASSEE OF CITICKEXS—TO PULL CHICKENS. 76 cive it one boU, and serve; the last thing, add the squeeze of a lemon. To Force Fowl, &c., is to stuff an}" part with forcemeat, and it is put usually between the skin and the flesh. To Braise, is to put meat into a stew'-pan covered with hit bacon, then add sis or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if to be brown, celery, any bones, or trimmings of meat or fowls, and some stock (which you will find among Soups and Gravies). The bacon must be covered with paper, and the lid of the pan must be put down close. Set it on a slow stove, and according to what it is, it will require two or three hours. The meat is then to be taken out; and the gravy very nicely skimmed, and set on to boil very quick tfil it is thick. The meat is to be kept hot; and if larded, put into the oven for a few minutes ; and then put the jelly over it, which is called glazing, and is used for ham, tongue, and many made dishes. White wine is added to some glazing. The glaze should be of a beautiful clear yellow brown, and it is best to put it on with a nice brush. Fricassee of Chickens.—Boil rather move than half, in a small quantity of water ; let them cool: then cut up; and put to simmer in a little gravy made of tlie liquor they were boiled in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon-peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When quite tender, keep them hot while }'ou thicken the sauce in the following man- ner :—Strain it off, and put it back into the saucepan with a little salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of flour and butter : give it one boil; and when you are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, add half a pint of cream, and stir them over the fire, but do not let it boU. It will be quite as good without the egg. The gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, feet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers ; which are called the trimmings of the fowl. To Pull Chickens.—Take off the skin: and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl in as large pieces as you can: dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it: and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. Another way.—Cut off the legs, and the whole back, of a dres.sed chicken ; if underdone the better. Pull all the white part into little flakes free from skin, toss it up with a little cream thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, half a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck-end of the chicken, and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the liash in the middle, with the back on it ; and the two legs at the end. Chicken Currie.—Cut up the cliicken raw, slice onions, and fry both in butter with great care, of a fine light brown; or, if you u.se chickens that have l>een dressed, I'ry only the onions. Lay the joints, cut into two or three pieces each, into a slew-pan, with