64 OBSERVATIONS ON KEEPING AND DRESSING MUTTON. tion to its size. Tliey will eat well out of tlie pickle without dry- ing. When they are to be dried, let each piece be drained over the pan, and when it will drop no longer, take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. Six or eight hours will smoke them, and there shoidd be only a little sawdust and wet straw burnt to do this ; but if put into a baker’s chimney, sew them in coarse cloth, and hang them a week. _To Dress Hams.—If long hung, put the ham into water a night, and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stones sprinkled with water two or three days, to mellow, cover- ing it with a heavy tub to keep vermin from it. Wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water; let it simmer four, five, or six hours, according to the size. When done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water. Take off the skin, and strew raspings over the ham. Garnish with carrot. Preserve the skin as whole as possible to keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. Excellent Bacon.—Divide the hog, and take the chine out: it is common to remove the spare-ribs, but the bacon will be pre- served better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the bacon six days, then drain it from the first pickle : mix as much salt as you judge proper with eight ounces of bay salt, three ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each hog, but first cut off the hams. Itub the salts well in, and turn it every day for a month. Drain, and smoke it a few days; or dr}'- without, by hanging in the kitchen, not near the fire. The Manner of Curing Wiltshire Bacon. — Sprinkle each Hitch with salt, and let the blood drain ofi' for twenty-foim hours: then mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the same quantity of bay salt, not quite so much as half a pound of saltpetre, and a pound of common salt; and mb this well on the bacon, turning it every day for a month: tlien hang it to dry, and after- wards smoke it ten days. This quantity of salts is sufficient for the whole hog. MUTTON.—Observations on Keeping and Dressing Mutton.—Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of the inside of a chine of mutton ; and if to be kept a great time, rub the part close round the tail with salt, after first cutting out the kernel. The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg should be taken out by the butcher, for it taints first there. The chine and rib- bones should be wiped every day; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; and if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little salt, should the weather be hot. Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat as soou as brought in; then wipe diy. For roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind- quarter especially, but not so long as to taint; for, whatever