MISCELLAIfEOUS OBSEETATIONS. 10 Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is company, if servants are required to prepare the table and sideboard in similar ordei’ daily. All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness : sugars of difl'erent qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and per- fectly dry, spices pounded, and kept in very small bottles close corked ; not more than will be used in four or live weeks should be pounded at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled whole m gravies, &c. Where luncheons or suppers are served (and in every house some 7)rcparalion is necessary for accidental visitors) care should be taken to have such things in readiness as are proper for either, and a list of several will be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and if duly managed will be attended with little expense and much convenience. A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of bread, which when returned will show the number to be paid for; as tallies may bo altered, unless one is kept by each party. Those who arc served with brewi'f’s beer, or any other articles not paid for weekly, or on delivery, should keep a book fur entering the dates; whicli will not only serve to prevent overcharges, but will show the whole year’s consumption at one view. An inventory of furniture, linen, and China, should be kept, and the things examined by it twice a year, or oi'tener, if there be a change of servants; into each of whose care the articles used by him or her, should be entrusted, with a list, as is done with plate. Tickets of parchment, with the family name, numhered, and specifying what bed it belongs to, shonld be sewed on each feather-bed, bolster, pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and liouse- clolhs, are often delicient: these accidents might he obviated, if an article at the head of every list required tlie former sliould be pro- duced whole or broken, and the marked part ot the linen, tliough all tlie others should be worn out. The inducement to take care of glass is in some measure removed, by the increased jirico given for old Hint glass.—Those who wish for triile dishes, butter-stands, &c., at a lower charge than cut glass, may buy them made in moulds, of which there is a great variety that look extremely well, it not placed near the more beautiful articles. The irrice of starch de])ends upon that of flour; the best will keep good in a dry wann room for some j'ears; therefore when bread is cheap it maj^ be bought to advantage, and covered elo.se. SuGAKS being an article of considerable expense in all tamilies, the j)urchase demands jjarticular attention. The eheapest does not go so far as that more relincd ; and there is dilference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, heavy, and shining. The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly look, ami it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India sugars are iiner for the ])rice, but not so strong, consequently uniit for wines and sweetmeats, but do well for common puriwses, if good of tlieir kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it with a liottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. Cuudlcs made in coul weather are best; and when their price.