48 STEWED OX-CUEEK—31AR110W-B0NES—TEIPE. _ Beef-heart.—Wasliitcarefully; stuff as hare; and serve with rich gravy and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. Stewed. Ox-cheek Plain.—Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be eaten ; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with thi-ee quarts of u-ater: simmer it after it has first boiled up and been well skimmed. In two hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it often; when the meat is tender, take it out 5 let the soup get cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown ; which may be done b,y burnt sugar; or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and sim- mering them with it. This last way improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted, or bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should always be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled in and strained off. To Dross an Ox-cheek another way.—Soak half a head three hours, and clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay the bones on the top ; pour on two or three quarts of water and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that udll fit clqje. Let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what vegetables you choose. Marrow-bones.—Cover the top with floured cloth ; boil them and serve with dry toast. Tripe may be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onion till tender. Melted butter for sauce. Or fry it in small bits dipped in butter. Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy; thicken with flour and butter, and add a little ketchup. Or fricassee it with m hite sauce. Soused Tripe.—Boil the tripe, but not quite tender; then put it into salt and water, which must be changed every day till it 18 all used. When you dress the tripe, dip it into a batter of flour and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. Ox-feet or Cow-heels.—May be dressed in various ways, and are very nutritious in all. Boil them ; and serve in a napkin, with melted butter, mustard, and a large spoonful of vinegar. Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a brown fricassee ; the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or relishing, and likewise give richness to soups or gravies. Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and then flour