18<3 NORFOLK PUNCH—DAIRY AND POULTRY YARD. TTorfolk Punch.—In twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels of thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that not the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled, put to it fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar, and v hen well mixed pour it upon the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges and of twenty-four lemons; mix well, then strain through a very fine hair-sieve into a very clean barrel that has held spirits, and put two quarts of new.milk. Stir, and then bung it close ; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar; bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the best quality and well put in. This liquor will keep many years and improves by age. Another way.—Pare six lemons and three Seville oranges very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea-pot, put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white-v'ine, and one of milk, and one pound and a quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed and then covered for twenty-four hours, strain through a jeUy-bag till clear, then bottle it. White Cinrant Shrub.—Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar as for jelly; strain the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of rum and two pounds of lump-sugar; strain through a jelly-bag. DAIRY, AND POULTRY YARD. DAIRY.—The servants of each country are generally ac- quainted with the best mode of managing the butter and cheese of that country; but the following hints may not be unacceptable, to give information to the mistress. On the Management of Cows, &c.—Cows should bo carefully treated; if their teats are sore, they should be soaked in warm water twice a day, and either be dressed with soft oint- ment, or done with spirits and water. If the former, great clean- liness is necessary. The milk, at these times, should be given to the pigs. When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be strained and emptied into clean pans immediately in winter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is preferable, as the red is porous, and cannot be so thoroughly scalded. The greatest possible attention must be paid to great cleanliness in a dairy; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, and the floor, should be kept with the most perfect neatness, and cold water thrown over every part very often. There should be shutters to keep out sun and the hot air" Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. The cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the udders emptied, or the quantity will decrease. The quantity of milk depends on many causes ; as the goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pasture, the length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of