140 SNOW BALLS—'A TANSEY—PT7ITS B’AMOOE. inches higli round the dish; having egged it where it is put to make it stick. Then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half way up with a marmalade of apjiles; have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade; then sift fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which should be warm enough to give it a beautiful colour. Snow Balls.—Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and having pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well. Lent Potatoes.—Swell three or four ounces of almonds, and three or four bitter, when blanched, putting some orange-flower water to prevent oiling; add eight ounces of butter, four eggs well beaten and strained, half a glass of raisin wine, and sugar to your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, and grate in three Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above with a little flour, the size of a chestnut; throw them into a stew-pan of boiling lard, and boil them of a beautiful yellow brown. Drain them on a sieve. Serve sweet sauce in a boat to eat with them. A Tansey.—Beat seven eggs, yolks and whites separately; add a pint of cream, the same of spinach-juice, and a little tansey-juice gained by pounding in a stone mortar, a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuits, sugar to taste, a glass of white wine, and some nutmeg. Set all in a saucepan, just to thicken, over the fire; then put it into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, and bake it. Puits d’Amour.—Cut a fine rich puff-paste rolled thin, with tin shapes made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyra- midical form, and lay them so; then bake in a moderate oven, that the paste may bo done sufficiently, but very pale. Lay dif- ferent coloured sweetmeats on the edges. A very nice Dish of Maccardni dressed Sweet.—Boil two ounces in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size ^thout breaking. Lay them on a custard dish, and pour a cus- tard over them hot. Serve cold. Floating Island.—Mix three half-pints of thin cream with a quarter of a pint of raisin wine, a little lemon-juice, orange-flower water, and sugar : put it into a dish for the middle of the table, and put on the cream a froth, as will be directed in page 146, which may be made of raspberry or currant jelly. Another way.—Scald a codlin before it is ripe, or any sharp apple; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs with sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; mix in by degrees the pulp, and beat all together until you have a large quantity of froth; serve it on a raspberry cream ; or you may colour the froth with beet-root, raspberry, or currant jelly, aud set it on a whit© cream, having given it the flavour of lemon; sugar and wine, as above; or, put the froth on a custai’d. Flummery.—Put three large handfuls of very small white oatmeal to steep a day and night in cold water; then pour it off clear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the same time.