201 YEAST AND WATER—DADLEY WATER—LEMON WATER. lemon peel; tlieu add tb.e cranberries, and as much line Lisbon sugar as shall leave a smart flavour of the fruit; and about a quarter of a pint of sherry, or less, as may be proper; boil the whole for half an hour, and strain off. Soft and Fine Draught for those who are weak and have a Cough.—Beat a fresh-laid egg, and mix it well with a quarter of a pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capil- laire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg, scraped. Do not warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. Toast and Water.—Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. This is of particular use to weak bowels. It should be of a fine brown colour before drinking. Barley Water.—Wash a handful of common barloj^ then simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon peel. This is leas apt to nauseate than pearl-barlcj^; but the other is a very pleasant drink. Another way.—Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few minutes, to cleanse, then put on it a quart of water, simmer an hour; when half done, put into it a bit of fresh lemon peel, and one bit of sugar. If likely to be too thick, you may put another quarter of a pint of water. Lemon juice may be added if chosen. Lemon Water, a Delightful Drink.—Put two slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of cainllaire; pour in a pint of boiling water, and atop it close two hours. Apple Water.—Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of boiling water on them, or on roasted apples ; strain it two or three hours, and sweeten lightly. Raspberry Vinegar Water.—(Sec page 168.) This is one of the most delightful drinks that can be made. Whey.—That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, especially when the cows are in fresh herbage. White Wine V/hey.—Put half a pint of new milk on the fire; the moment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin wine as will completely turn it, and look clear ; let it boil up, then set the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of white sugar. Ilius you will have a whey perfectly cleared of milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it. vinegar and Lemon Wheys.—Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon juice as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeable smart acid, and put a bit or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made of wine; and if only to excite perspiration, answers as well. Buttermilk, with or without Bread.—It is most whole- some when sour, as being less likely to be heavy; but most agree- able when made of sweet cream. Dr. Boerhaave’s Sweet Buttermilk,—Take the milk from the cow into a small chui’n, of about Gs. price; in about ten