BEEF EX HIKOTOX—nUXTEll’S BEEF. 43 ’ w i>ickled nnishrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters if agreeable, .at it is good without; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, nd heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat- .lalls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suet, herbs, spice, bread, and eggs, :) bind, are a great improvement. Beef en Miroton.—Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put [ lem into a frj'ing-pan with some butter, and six onions, turn the :an frequently, then mix a little broth, add pepper and salt, and 'fter a few boils, serve up hot. This dish is excellent and econo- lical. To Stew Brisket of Beef.—Put the part with the hard fat Mto a stew-pot with a small quantity of water ; let it boil up, and ikim it thoroughly; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and 1 few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender, then take out the hat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Serve that and Tie meat in a tureen, or the soup alone and the meat on a dish, "^nished with some vegetables. The following sauce is much -.dmired, served with the beef:—Take half a pint of the soup and mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a tea- rpwnful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt; •K)il aU together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and fflives or parsley, small, and put into separate heaps over it. To Pr^ss Beef.— Salt a bit of brisket, the thin part of the Hank, or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days, -hen boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a gi’eat »veight, or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cold. It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches. To make Hunter’s Beef.—To a round of beef that weighs r.wentj'-five pouinds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces nf the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, and three handfuls of common salt, all in the finest roowder. The beef should hang two or three days ; then rub the above Tvell into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. Tlie bone must be taken out at first. When to be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up tiglit with tape, and pat it into a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan with a brown cnist and paper, and bake it five or six hours. When cold, take off the paste and tape. The gravy is very fine; and a little of it adds greatly to the flavour of any hash, soup, &c. Both the gravy and the beef will keep some time. The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to pre- Tent waste. An excellent Mode of Dressing Beef.—Hang three ribs three or four days ; take out the bones from tlic whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roa.st it. N othing can lof/k nicer. The above done vilh H[iice.s, &c., and baked ns hunter’s beef, is excellent.