113 &ICE PUDDING—POTATO PUDDING. in a clotli, and leave plenty of room for it to swell. 33oil it in a quantity of water for an hour or two. When done, cat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon peel if you please. It is very good •without spice, and eaten with salt and butter. A Rich Rice Pudding.—Boil half a pound of rice iu water, with a little bit of salt, till quite tender ; drain it dry, mix it with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, with two ounces of fresh butter melted in the latter, four ounces of beef-suet or marrow, or veal-suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, thi-ee quarters of a pound of currants, two spoonfuls of brandy, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated lemon peel. When well mixed, pnt a paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron, if ap- proved. Bake in a moderate oven. Rice Pudding with Fruit.—Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, gooseberries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants) ; with one egg in the rice, to bind it; boH it well, and servo with sugar. Bakec- Rice Pudding.—Swell rice as above ; then add some more mUk, an egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon peel. Bake in a deep dish. Another, for the Family.—Put into a very deep pan half a pound of rice washed and picked ; two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. A George Pudding.—Boil very tender a handful of whole rice in a small quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon peel. Let it drain ; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, boiled to pulp as dry as possible : add a glass of white wine, the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of orange and citron cut thin ; make it pretty sweet. Lineamouldor basin with a very good paste : beat the five whites of the eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other ingredients fill the mould, and bake it of a fine bright colour. Serve it with the bottom upward with the following sauce : two glasses of wine, a spoonful of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a bit of butter as large as a walnut; simmer without boding, and pour to and from the saucepan, tdl of a proper thickness; and put m the dish. An excellent Plain Potato Pudding.—Take ciglit ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cx’eam, one spoonful of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; bent all lo frolli ; sucar to taste. A cTust or not, as you like. Bake it. 11' wanted ricner, put three ounces more butter, sweet-meats and almonds, and another egcf. Potato Pudding with Meat.—Boil them till fit to mash ; rub through a colander, and make into a thick bailer v i'li milk and two cgifs. Lav some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter, and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter, . Bake a fine brown.