MISCELLANEOTJS OBSEEYATIONS. 4 The cultivation of the understanding and disposition, however, is not here alhuled to ; for a judicious improvement of both, united to firm and early-taught religious principles, would enable the happy possessor of these advantages to act well on all occasions : nor would young ladies find domestic knowledge a burden, or inconsistent with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it were inculcated at a tender age, when activity is so pleasing. If employment be tire- some to a healthy child, the fault must be traced to habits which, from many causes, are not at present favourable to the future con- duct of women. It frequently happens, that before imi>ressions of duty are made on the mind, ornamental education commences ; and it ever after takes the lead ; thus, what should be only the embel- lishment, becomes the main business of life. There is no opportu- nity of attaining a knowledge of family management atscliool; and during vacation, all subjects that might interfere with amusement are avoided. When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks of life, re- turns to reside at her father’s liouse after comideling lier education, her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of plea- sures, persuade her at once that she was born to be the ornament of fashionable circles, rather than to stoop (as she would conceive it) to undertake the arrangement of a family, though by that means she might in various ways augment the satisfaction and comfort of her parents. On the other hand, persons of an inferior sphere, and especially in the lower order of middling life, are almost always anxious to give their children such advantages of education as themselves did not possess. Whether their indulgence be produc- tive of the happiness so kindly aimed at, must be judged by the effects, which are not very favourable, if what has been taught has not produced humility in herself, and increased gratitude and re- spect to the authors other being. AVere a young woman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occupation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure presented by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soon make a comparison much in favour of the former, especially if re- straint did not give to the latter additional relish. If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall find a love of employment to be tlie source of unnumbered pleasures. To attend to the nursing, and at least early instruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness ; to preside over the family and regulate the income allotted to its maintenance ; to itiake home the sweet refuge of a husband fatigued by intercourse with a jarring world ; to be his enlightened com- panion and the chosen friend of his heart; these, these are woman’s duties! and delightful ones they are, if haply she be luarried to a man whose soul can duly estimate her worth, and wlio will bring his share to the common stock of felicit5\ Of such a woman, one may trply say, “ Ilappy the man wlio can call her his wife. Blessed are the children who call her mother.” When we thus observe her, exercising her activity and best abili- ties in appropriate cares and increasing excellence, are we not ready to say, she is the agent for good of that benevolent Being