TOEKSnillE PT7BDING—GROUND RICE PUDDING. 117 lemon, oranpe, and citron, in small slices, but not so thin as to dis- solve in the baking. Yorkshii’e Pudding.—Mix five spoonfuls of flour, ■with a quart of milk, and three eggs 'well beaten. Butter the pan. When quite brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side up- ■wards, and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing-dish at first, and stir it some minutes, A quick-made Padding.—Flour and suet, half a pound of each, four eggs, a quarter of a pint of new milk, with a little mace and nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of raisins, ditto of currants; mix well, and boil three quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on. or it will require longer. Kussian Seed, or Grormd Rice Pudding.—Boil a large spoonful heaped, of either, in a pint of new milk, with lemon peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the dish. A Welsh. Pudding.—Let half a i)ound of fine butter melt gently, beat with it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, mix in six ounces of loaf sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and nicely bake it. Oxford Dumplings.—Of grated bread two ounces, currants and .«hred suet four ounces each, two large spoonfuls of flour, a great deal ot grated lemon peel, a bit of sugar, and a little pimento in fine powder. Mix with two eggs and a little milk into five dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Made with flour instead of bread, but with half the quantity, they are excellent. Serve with sweet sauce. Suet Dumplings.—Make as pudding (page 114), and drop into boiling water, or into the boiling of beef: or you may boil them in a cloth. Apple, Currant, or Damson Dumplings, or Puddings, —Make as above, and line a basin with the paste tolerably thin ; fill with the fruit, and cover it; tie a cloth over tight, and boil till the fruit shall be done enough. Yeast, or Suffolk Dumplings.—Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread, but with milk instead of water, and put salt. I^et it raise an hour before the fire. Twenty minutes before you are to serve, have ready a large stew-pan of boiling water; make the dough into halls, llie size of a middling apple; throw them in, and boil twenty minutes. If you doubt wlien done enough, stick a clean fork into one, and if it come out clear, it is done. The way to eat them is to tear them apart on the top with two forks, for they become heavy by their ow n steam. Fat imme- diately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. A Charlotte.—Cut as many very thin slices of white bread ns will cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, but first ^b it thick with butter. Put apples, in thin slices, into the disli, in layers, till full, strewing sugar between, and bits of butter. In