114 BEEF STEAK PUDDING—MUTTON PUDDING. Steak or Kidney Pudding.—If kidney, split and soak it, and season that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and milk ; roll it, and line a basin with some; put the kidney or steaks in, cover with paste and pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth, and boil a considerable time. Beaf Steak Pudding.—Prepare some fine steaks as in page 44; roll them with fat between, and if you approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rollers of steaks; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close, and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. Baked Beef Steak Pudding.—Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed through a colander ; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish, then i>ut in the steaks prepared as above, and very well seasoned ; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it. Mutton Pudding.—Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish, and pour a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and mixed with milk and an egg over them ■, then putting the rest of the steaks and batter, bake it. Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, but requires more egg, and is not so good. Another.—Cut slices off a leg that has been underdone, and put them into a basin lined with a flue suet crust Season with pepper, salt, and flnely-shred onion or shalot. Suet Pudding.—Shred a pound of suet, mix with a pound and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will raalce it. Boil four hours. It eats well next day cut in slices and broiled. The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred, makes a more delicate pudding than suet. Veal Suet Pudding.—Cue the crumb of a threepenny loaf into slices; boil and sweeten two quarts of new milk and pour over it. When soaked, pour out a little of the milk, and mix witli six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread into a dish, with layers of currants and veal-suet shred, a pound of each. Butter the dish well, and bake; or jmu may boil it in a basin, if you prefer it. Hunter’s Pudding.—Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto currants, ditto raisins stoned and a little cut, the rind of half a lemon shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers in fine powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence; boil it in a floured cloth, or a melon mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful of peach-water for change of flavour. Tins pudding wiU keep, after it has been boiled, six months, if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up folded in a sheet of