COLD CAUDLK—DICE CAUDLE—10 MULL 'WINE. 201 Caudle.—Make a fine smootli gruel of half-grits; strain it when boiled well, stir it at times till cold. When to be used, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. Another.—Boil up half a pint cf fine gruel, w ith a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a bit of lemon-peel and nutmeg. Another.—Into a pint of fine gruel, not thick, put, when it is boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mi.xed with a large spoonful of cold watei*, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. Mi.x by degrees. It is very agreeable and nourishing. Some like gruel, with a glass of table beer, sugar, &c., wither without a tea- spoonfxil of brandy. Cold Caudle.—Boil a quart of spring water; when cold, add the j'olk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons one ounce. A Flour Caudle.—Into five large spoonfuls of the purest water rub smooth one dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five spoonfuls of new milk, and put two bits of sugar into it; the moment it boils, pour into it the flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astringent food. This is an excellent food for babies who have weak bowels. Rice Caudle. — When the water boils, pour into it some grated rice mixed with a little cold water; when of a proper con- sistence add sugar, lemon peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil aU smooth. Ajiother.—Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put two spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and a quarter of milk ; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve ; then put the pulp and milk into the saucepan with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer ten minutes ; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk, and serve with thin toast. To Mull Wine.—Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar, and nutmeg ; boil together, and serve with toast. Another way.—Boil a bit of cinnamon and some grated nut- meg a few minutes in a large cupful of water ; then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste: heat it up and it will be ready. Or, it may be made of good British wine. To Make Coffee.—Put two ounces of fresh ground coffee, of the best quality, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight coU’ec-cups of boiling water on it; let it boil six minutes, pour out a cupful two or three tirnes, and return it again , then put two or three isin- glas.s-chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boiling water on It; boil it five minutes more, and set the pot by tlic (ire to keep hot for ten ininutc-s, and you will have cofl'cc of a beantil’ul clear- ness. Fine cream should always bo served with coffee, and cither pounded sugar-fp.ndy or fine Lisbon sugar.