ICE WATEKS—CUERAXT OR RASPBERRY ICE. 149 or cream, sujrar, and lemon juice. Just before it be served, sprinkle over it some nonpareil comfits ; or stick a few blanched split almonds into it. Sponge biscuits may be used instead of the roll. To Prepare Fruit for Children, a far more wholesome way than in Pies and Puddings.—Put apples or pears, sliced, plums, currants, gooseberries, &c., into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as is necessary among them; set the jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread, or rice, may be either stewed with the fruit, or added, when eaten : the rice being plain boiled. To Prepare Ice for Icing.—Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, throw a large handful and a half of salt among it. You must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of the warm air comes as you can possibl.v contrive. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so as to touch every possible part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, re- moving the parts that ice found the edges to the centre. If the ice-cream or water be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket, to let off* the ice as it thaws. Sou.—When any fluid tends towards cold, the mere moving it quickly ac- 1 celerates the cold ; and likewise, when any fluid is tending to heat, stirring it will facilitate its boiling. Ice Waters.—Pub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to ■ give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its I respective peel; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and I strain it before it be put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater I proportion should be of the China juice, and only a little of ( Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. Cxurant or Raspberry Water Ice.—The juice of these, or II any other sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened and 11 mi.ved with water, will be ready for icing. I Ice Creams.—Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar ’ as will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a I middling richness. Brown Bread Ice,—Grate as fine as possible stale brown I bread, soak a small proportion in cream two or three houi's, ' sweeten and ice it. Ratafia Cream,—Blanch a quarter ounce of bitter almonds, beat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a marble mortar; then rub with the pa.ste two ounces of lump sugar, and simmer ten ' minutes with a tea-cupful of cream, which add to a quart more of cream, and having strained, ice it. Colourings to stain Jollies, Icos. or Cakes.—For a beau- tiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a dram and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very