72 POTJLTKY—JJOAST TUKKEY—BOILED lUDIvEY. break the gall bag, for no washing will take off the bitter where it has touched. In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a clear brisk fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow brown, but leave the gravy in j the fine-flavour is lost if done too much. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually basted ; that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. A large fowl will take three-quarters of an hour: a middling one half-an-hour; and a very small one, or a chicken, twenty minutes. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. A capon will take from thirty to thirty-five minutes; a goose an hour; wild ducks a quarter of an hour; pheasants, twenty minutes ; a small turkey stuffed, an hour and a quarter; turkey poults, twenty minutes; grouse a quarter of an liour; quails, ten minutes; and partridges, from twenty to twenty- five minutes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part requires most heat. Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick turning. Hares and rabbits must be well attended to : and the extremities brought to the quick part of the fire, to be done equally with the backs. POULTRY.—To Boil Turkey.—Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, a few oysters or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg; put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready a fine oyster sauce made rich •with butter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved, and Eour it over the bird; or liver and lemon sauce. Hen buds are est for boiling, and should be young. To Roast Turkey.—The sinews of the legs should be drawn, whichever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. Put a stuffing of sausage meat; or if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a large addition to file size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little strip of paper sliould be put on the bone, to hinder it from scorch- ing while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Servo with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread sauce in a sauce tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage meat. Pulled Turkey.—Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting: then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a httle flour and butter; do not boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken docs as well. To Boil Fowl.—For boiling choose those that are not black- legged. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour