156 OKANGE MAEMALADE—LEMON MAEMALADE. of apricots, weighing them after; put them in a dish; strew among them three pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the fruit oyer a stove to do very gently ; as each piece becomes tender, talce it out and put it into a china bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the syrup over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in each half. After about a day or two more turn them, and so continue daily till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep in boxes with layers of paper. Apricot Cheese.—Weigh an equal quantity of pared fruit and sugar, wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly or the colour will be spoiled; blanch the kernels, and add to it. Twenty or thirty minutes will boil it. Put it in small pots or cups half filled. Orange Marmalade.—Easp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Poll three pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add a pound of the rind ; boil fast till the syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds having been removed, and a pint of apple-liquor; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. Lemon Marmalade do in the same wa3'’; they are very good and elegant sweetmeats. Transparent Marmalade.—Cut the palest Seville oranges in qiiarters, take the pulp out and put it in a basin, pick out the seeds and skins. Let the outsides soak in water with a little salt all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring-water till tender ; drain and cut them in very thin slices, and put them to the pulp ; and to every pound, a pound and a half of double-re- fined sugar beaten fine; boil them together twenty minutes, but be careful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. To Butter Oranges Hot.—Grate off a little of the outside m rind of four Seville oranges, and cut a round hole at the blunt end, i opposite the stalk, large enough to take out the pulp, seeds, and juice; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp; rub the oranges with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short time. You are to save the bits cut out. Set the fruit on to boil in fresh water till they are tender, shifting the water to take out the bitter- ness. In the meantime make a thin syrui) with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it and boil them up, turning them roimd that ^ each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to cover (hem, and let them remain in it hot till they are to be served. About half an hour before you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set over the fire ; mix it well, and let it boil; then add a spoonful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to tliicken it; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the syrup in the dish. Put the bits on the top.