TO CUOOSK MEATS. bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newlv killed, but any other colour shows it stale. The other part should be dry aud white; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns iirst in the loin, and the suet will not then be drm. Mutton.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age, but this only holds ■with wether-mutton ; the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Eam-mutton is very strong-flavoured, the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. Lamb.—Observe the neck of a fore-quarter; if the vein is bluish, it is fresh; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes into season in April or May and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is in the highest perfection in De- cember and January. Pork,— Pinch the lean, and if young it wiU break. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in aU pork. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measly pork is very unwholesome, and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Pork feed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongv'. Dairy-fed pork is the best. Bacon.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may conclude it good, and not old. If there are yeUow^ streaks in it, it is troing, if not already rusty. Hams.—Stick a sharp knife under the bone ; if it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good; but if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are best, and long-legged pigs are not to be chosen for any prepara- tion of pork. Bra'wn.—The homy part of young brawn will feel moderately’’ tender, and the flavour -vvill be better; the rind of old will be hard. Observations on Purchasing, Keeping, and Dressing Meat.—In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes farthest ; it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most nouri.shment. Hound of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints that bear a higher price ; but as they have more solid meat, they deserve the preference. It is worth notice, liowevcr, tliat those joints which are inferior may be dressed as ])alatably ; and, being cheaper, they ought to be bouglit in turn; for, when they are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes tlie price of these come lower. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it is apt tr» taint; ns also the kernels of beef. Humps