TO DRESS MUTTON RUMPS AND KIDNEYS. 68 and frying. If approved, a little slialot may be added, or garlic, wbicli is a great improvement. To Dress Mutton Rumps and Kidneys.—Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half an hour ; then take them up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it four ounces of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace ; boil them till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten j and strew over them crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley and thyme, and grated lemon-peel. Fry in butter of a fine brown. While the rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the Icidneys between. Garnish with hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on; or with different coloured pickles. An excellent Hotch Potch.—Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water, with a beef or ham-bone. While these are doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown: three quarters of an hour before dinner, put the steaks into a stew- pan, and the vegetables over them; stew them, and serve all together in a tureen. Another.—Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed with vegetables as above ; to both add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Mutton Kebobhed.—Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it at every bone: mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, crumbs, and lierbs ; dip the steaks into the yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie them and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them at a quick fire ; set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter and the liquor that comes from the meat; but throw some more of the above seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish; and put into it two spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub down a tea-spoonful of flour with ik; give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the lat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. China Chile.—Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mut- ton, or leg, and some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, four spoonfuls of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a stew-pan closely covered ; simmer twm hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved, add a little. . , ,, , , i LAMB.—Leg of Lamb should bo boiled m a cloth to look aa w hito ns possible. Tlie loin fried in steaks and served round, gar-