CHOCOLATE CBEAil—CODLIN CKEAM:—OEANGI-: CKEAM. 145 It should jell}', but not be stiff. Observe that }'our coffee be fresh. Chocolate Cream.—Scrape into one quart of thick cream, one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite smooth take it off, and leave it to be cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk; and take up the froth, on sieves, as others are done; and servo the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. Codlin Cream.—Pare and core twenty good codlins; beat them in a mortar, with a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish ; and put sugar, bread crumbs, and a glass of wine, to it. Stir it well. Excellent Orange Cream.—Boil the’rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it fine in a mortar ; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; beat all together for ten minutes ; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling cream; beat till cold; put into custard cups set into a deep dish of boiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put I at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved chips. Haspberry Cream.—Wash the fruit gently, and let them 1 drain ; then sprinkle a little sugar over, imd that will produce I more juice; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it; i after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk it will not ( curdle; which it would, if put to the milk before the cream; but it i.s best made of raspberry jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. Another way.—Boil one ounce of isinglass shavings in three pints of cream and new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until the former be melted, and strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin; when cool put about half a pint of raspberry-juice, or syrup, to the milk and cream : stir it till well incorporated; sweeten and add a glass of brandy, whisk it about till three parts cold; then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh ■ juice ; in winter, syrup of raspberries. Spinach Cream.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon or a whisk ; sweeten them a good deal; and put to them a stick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, three quarters of a pint of new milk ; stir it well; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach- juice ; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it on' way constantly till itj.'* as thick as a hasty pudding. Put into a custard di.sli some Naples biscuits, or preserved orange, in long slices, and pour the rni.xture over them. It is to be eaten cold ; and is a dish either f.r supper, or for a second course. Pistachio Cream.—Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts ; b' at them fine with a little rose water, and add the iiaste to a pint of f-rearn ; sweeten ; let it just boil, and put it into glasses. Clouted Cream.—Htrinir four blades of macu on a thread; put them to a gill of new rnillc, and six spoonfuls of rose water; simmer a few minutes ; then by degrees sth this liquor strained