20S TO HAKE son rOHATTJM—POMADE DIVIDE. VAHIOUS RECEIPTS, AISTD DIRECTIONS FOR SERVANTS. VARIOUS RECEIPTS.—To Make Soft Pomatum.— Beat half a pound of unsalted fresh lard hi common water ; then soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain it, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy; let it drain from this, add to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small pots. Another way.— Soak half a poimd of clear beef-marrow and a pound of unsalted fresh lard, in water two or three days, chaug- iug and beating it every day. Put it into a sieve, and when dry, into a jar, and the jar into a saucepan of water. When melted, pour it into a basin, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy : drain off the brandy, and then add essence of lemon, begamot, or any other scent that is liked. Hard Pomatum.—Prepai’e equal quantities of beef-marrow and mutton-suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it, and adding tlie scent; then pour it into moulds, or, if you have none, into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be of. When cold, break the bottles, clear away the glass carefully, and put paper round the rolls. Pomade Divine.—Clear a pound and a half of beef-marrow from the strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan, or vessel of water fresh from the spi-ing, and change the water night and morning for ten days; then steep it in rose-water twenty-four hours, imd drain it in a cloth till quite dry. Take an ounce of each of the following articles—namely, storax, gum-benjamin, odoriferous cypress-powder, or of Florence: half an ounce of cin- namon, two drams of cloves, and two drams of nutmeg, all finely j)Owdered; mix them with the marrow above i^repared, then put aU the ingredients into a pewter pot that holds three pints ; make a paste of white of egg and floui', and lay it upon a piece of rag. Over that must be another piece of linen to cover the top of the pot very close that none of the steam may evaporate! Put the pot into a large copy>er pot, with watei% observing to keep it steady, that it may not reach to the covering of the pot that holds the marrow. As the water shrinks, add more boiling hot, for it must boil four hours without ceasing a moment. Strain the ointment through a linen cloth into small pots, and, when cold, cover them. I)o not touch it with anything but silver. It will keep many tine pomatum may be made by putting half a pound of fresh marrow, prepared as above, and tw'o ounces of hog s-lard, on the ingredients : and then observing the same process as before. Pot Pourri.—Put into a large china jar the following ingre- dients in layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers ; two pecks of damask roses, part in buds and part biowu, violets, orange-flowers, and jasmine, a handful of each; orris-root sliced, benjamin and storax, two ounces of each; a quarter ot an ounce