176 TO MAKE YEAST—TO MAKE IJKEAD, them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. Aote.—The cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea ; or, with caraways, to eat cold. To make Yeast.— Thicken two quarts of water with fine flour, about three spoonfuls; boil half an hour, sweeten with near half a pound of brown sugar; when near cold, put into it four spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, and let it stand one day to ferment near the fire, without being covered. \ There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of the old to ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succession. A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. Another way.—Boil one pound of potatoes to a mash; when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. It wiU be ready for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. Use double the quantity of this, to what you do of beer yeast. To take oflP the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, and pour it through, having first mixed a little warm water with it. To make Bread.—Let flour be kept four or five weeks before it is begun to bake with. Put half a bushel of good flour into a trough, or kneading-tub ; mix with it between four and five quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast; put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise about an hour and twenty minutes, or less, if it rises fast; then, before it falls, add four more quarts of w^arm water, and half a pound of salt; work it well, and cover it with a cloth. Put the fire into the oven, and by the time it is warm enough, the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five pounds each; sweep out the oven very clean and quick, and put in the bread; shut it up close and two hours and a half w'dl bake it. In summer the water should be milk-warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather as hot as you can bear your hand in, but not scald- ing, or the w'hole w'Ul be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust wiU be very nice. The oven should be round, not long; the roof from twenty to twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, and the door of iron, to shut close. This construction will save firing and time, and bake better than long and high-roofed ovens. Bolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new, when tw'o or three days old, by dipping them, uncut, in water, and baking afresh, or toasting. American Flour requires almost twice as much water to make it into bread as is used for English flour, and therefore it is more profitable; for a stone of the American, which weighs fourteen pounds, will make twenty-one pounds and a half of bread ; but the best sort of English flour produces only eighteen pounds and a half.