95 LIVES SAUCE—ONION SAUCE—DUTCH SAUCE. •trained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mij a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them together: add salt to your taste. Liver Sauce.—Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowls, and do it as directed for lemon-sauce (page 96), with a very little peppec and salt and some parsley. Egg Sauce.— Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small pieces; then put them to melted butter. Onion Sauce.—Peel the onions and boil them tender; squeeze the water from them, then chop them and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, but with a little good milk instead of water; boil it up once, and • serve it with boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal or roa't mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions makes them : milder. Clear Shalot Sauce. — Put a few chopped shalots into a -little gravy boiled clear, and near half as much vinegar, season • with pepper and salt; boU half an hour. To make Parsley Sauce when no Parsley-leaves are :to be had.—Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin, land boil it a few minutes in some water. Use this water to melt •.the butter; and throw into it a little boiled spinach minced, to ■look like parsley. Green Sauce for Green Geese or Ducklings.—Mix a .quarter of a pint of soiTel-juice, a glass of white wiue, and some ^scalded gooseberries. Add sugar and a bit of butter. Boil them •“P- Bread Sauce.—Boil a large onion cut in four, with some black :peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk iitrained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour ■)ut it in a saucepan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a ittle flour: boil the whole up together, and serve. Dutch Sauce for Meat or Pish.—Put six spoonfuls of ivater, and four of vinegar, into a saucepan, warm, and thicken it «vith the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil t; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a I ieve. Sauce Hobart for Rumps or Steaks.—Put a piece of •utter, the size of an egg, into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and I . hen browning throw in a handful of sliced onions cut small; fry hei^j brown, but do not let them burn; add half a spoonful of I onr, shake the onions in it and give it another fry; then put four H p^->nful.s of gravy and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten II ifhutes ; skim off the fat, and add a tea-spoonful of made mustard, tt spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon; boil it all, H nd poor it round the steaks. They should be of a line yellow II rown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. U Bonton Sauco for Hot and Cold Roast Beef.—Grate, j| r scrape very fine, some liorseradi.sh, a little made mustard, some |l ounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar, berve ■ 1 a saucer.