47 riCKLL'D TOXGUi;S—STKAVI:D TOXCUl’S. well, salt it with commou salt and saltpetre three days, then boil it, and likewise a fine youns? udder with some fat to it, till tole- rabh' tender; then tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the other, and roast the tonpnie and udder together. Serve them with good gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. A few cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is au excellent dish. Some people like neat’s tongues cured with the root, in which case they look much larger; but otherwise the root must be cut off close to the gullet, next to the tongue, but without taking away the fat under the tongue. The root must be soaked in salt and water, and extremely well cleaned, before it is dressed; and the tongue should be laid in salt for a day and a night before pickled. To Pickle Tongues for Boiling.—Cut off the root, but leave a httle of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next day: then for each tongue mbc a large spoonful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and about half as much of saltpetre ; rub it well in, and do so every day. In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rubbed every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight; but if only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five weeks without being too salt. hen you drj" tongues, write the date on a parchment and tie it on. Smoke them, or dry them plain, if you like best. hen it is to be dressed, boil it tiU extremely tender; allow five hours, and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The longer kept after drj'ing, the higher it wiU be; if hard, it m.ay recjjaire soaking three or four hours. Another way.—Clean as above: for two tongues allow an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-prunella; rub them weD. In two days, after well rubbing, cover them with common salt, turn them every day for three weeks, then dry them, rub bran over them, and smoke them. In ten days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool drj- place. To Stew Tongue.—Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common ?ak for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel: when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy; season with soy. mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In both this re- ceipt and the next, the roots must bo taken ofi’ the tongues before salting, but .some fat left. An ezcellent way of doing Tongues to eat Cold.— Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little ba}'- salt, pepj»er, cloves, mace, and allspice, in line powder, for a fort- night; then take awa3' the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, nod lay some butter on it; cover it w ith brown crust, and bake slow ly till so tender tliat a straw would go through it. The thin part of tongues, when huru: ni» to dry, grates like hung beef, and also makes a ting addition to tiic llavour of omelets. n