122 LEMOi; MIXCE PIES—ICING FOR TARTS—PRUNE TART. Lemon Mince Pies.—Squeeze a lai’ge lemon, boil tlie out- side \ ill tender enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, four ounces of sugar; put the juice of the lemon, and candied fruit as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the patty-pans as usual. Egg Mince Pies.—Boil six eggs hard, shred them small; shred double the quantity of suet; then put currants washed and f»icked one pound, or more, if the eggs were large; the peel of one emon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonfuls of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt: orange, lemon, and citron, candied. Make a light paste for them. Cui'rant and Raspberry.—For a tart, line the dish, put sugar and fruit, lay bars across, and bake. Light Paste for Tarts and Cheesecakes.—Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; then mix with it as much water as will make three quarters of a pound of fine fiour into a very stiff paste ; roll it very thin, then lay the tlxird part of half a pound of butter upon it in little bits ; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and I’oll it up tight. Boll it out again, and put the same proportion of butter; and so proceed till all be worked up. Icing for Tarts.—Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter well together, \A ash the tarts with a featlier, and sift sugar over as you put them in the oven. Or beat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift wdiite sugar. Pippin Tarts.—Pare in two Seville or China oranges, bod the peel tender, and shred it fine; pare and core twenty apples, put them in a stew-pan, and as little water as possible : when half done, add half a pound of sugar, the orange peel and juice ; boil till pretty thick. When cold, put it in a shallow dish, or patty- ,pans lined with paste, to tuim out, and be eaten cold. Prune Tart.—Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them ^ put the kernels into a little cranberry juice, with the prunes and sugar; simmer; and, when cold, make a tart of the sweetmeat. Orange Tart.—Squeeze, pulp, and boil two Seville oranges tender, weigh them, and double of sugar; beat both together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat together. Choose a very shallow dish, line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it. You may ice it. Codlin Tart.—Scald the fruit as will be directed under that article: when ready take off the thin skin, and lay them whole in a dish, put a little of the water the apples were boiled in at bottom, strew them over with lump sugar or fine Lisbon ; when cold, put a paste round the edges and over the tart. You may wet it with white of egg, and strew sugar over, which looks very well: or cut the lid in quarters, without touching the paste on the edge of the dish: and either put the broad end downwards, and make the point stand up, or remove the lid