i'OKE-UUAIlXEr. Oh' LAMB—HOUSE LAMB STEAKS. 69 nislied with dried or fried parsley; spinach to cat with it; or di-essed separately, or roasted. Fore Quarter of Lamb.—Eoast it either whole, or in sepa- rate parts. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. The neck and breast together are called a scoven. Breast of Lamb and Cucumbers.—Cut off the chine-bone from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones would draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill; and then lay it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. Shoulder of Lamb, Forced, with Sorrel Sauce.—Bone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with forcemeat: braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it; or it may be glazed only, and not braised. The method for both, see page 75. Serve with sorrel sauce under the lamb. Lamb Steaks.—Fry them of a beautiful brown: when served, throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crimped parsley; the receipt for doing which of a fine colour will be given under the head of Vegetables. Mutton or Lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and eat well. Sauce for them, called Sauce Eobart, will be found in the list of Sauces. House Lamb Steaks, White.—Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit of lemon peel, a little salt, some pepper, and mace. Have ready some veal gravy, and put the steaks into it; mi.x some mushroom powder, a cup of cream, and the least bit of flour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and let it get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few white mnshrooms. This is a good substitute when poultry is very dear. House Lamb Steaks, Brown.—Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, and chopped parsley; but dip them first into egg ; fry them quick. Tliicken some good gravy with a bit of flour and butter ; and add to it a spoonful of port wine, and .some 03’sters: boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm: let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eag.y, if you like. Lamb Cutlets with Spinach.—Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them: the spinach is to be slewed and put into the dish first, and then the cutlets round it. Lamb’s Head and Hinge.—This part is best from a house lamb; but anv, if soaked in cold water, will be while. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and liglits three parts boiled and cut small; stew them in a little of the water in which tin r were boiled, season and thicken with flour and batter, and .'trve the mince round the head. Lamb’s Fry,—Serve it fried of a beautiful colour, and with a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. Lainb’s Sweetbreads.— Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold water. Then put them into a stew-pan with a