EOAST HAKE—JUGGED HARE—RABBITS. 82 the hare keeps longer, and eats much better, if not opened for four or five days, or according to the weather. If paunched, as soon as a hare comes iu, it should be wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the liver scalded to keep for the stuffing. Repeat this wiping every day; mix pepper aud ginger, and rub on the inside; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. Apply the spice early to prevent that musty taste which long keep- ing in the damp occasions, aud which also affects the stuffing. An old hare should be kept as long as possible, if to be roasted. It must also be well soaked. To Roast Hare.—After it is skinned, let it be extremely well washed, and then soaked an hour or two in water; and if old, lard it; which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in vinegar. If, however, it is put into vinegai', it should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. Rut a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the fire warm, u ill I’emove it; especially if you also nick the skin here and there with a small knife, to let it out. The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce ; the gravy in the dish. For stuffing use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The cars must be nicely cleaned and singed. They are reckoned a dainty. For the manner of trussing a hare, see page 73. To Jug an Old Hare.—After cleaning and skinning, cut it up, and season it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, aud a little nutmeg. Put it into ajar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the carcase bones over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder and leather or strong Eaper; and put it into a saucepan of water up to the neck, but no igher. Keep the water boiling five hours. When it is to be served, boil the gravy up with a piece of butter and flour ; and if the meat gets cold, warm it in this, but not to bod. Broiled and Hashed Hare.—The flavour of broiled hare is particularly fine: the legs or wings must be seasoned first, rub with cold butter, and served very hot. The other parts, warmed with gravy aud a httle stuffing, may be served separately. To Pot Hare, for which an old one does well, as likewise for soup and pie. After seasoning, bake it with butter. When cold take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If not high enough, add salt, mace, pepper, and a piece of the finest fresh butter melted in a spoonful or two of the gravy that came from the hare. When well mixed put it into small pots, and cover with butter. The legs and back should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to keep them moist, aud the bones be put over them. RABBITS may be eaten various ways, as follows ;— Roasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare : or •svilhout stuffing;