FLOUNDERS—HERRINGS. 31 quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them and the liquor. Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eel Broth, very Noiirishingfor the Sick.—Do as above; but stew two hours, and add a onion and pepper-corns : salt to taste. Collared Eel.—Bone a large eel, but do not skin it: mix pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside; roll it tight, and bind with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and M ater till done, then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either M'hole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and savourv. mixed Muth the spices, greatly improve the taste. To Stew Lamprey as at Worcester.—After cleaning the fish carefull}', remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and season M*ith a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and aU -spice; put it into a small steu'-pot, with very strong beef- gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry. It must be covered close; stev' till tender, then take out the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with two or three anchovies chopped, and some fiour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon-juice and some made mus- tard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse-radish. Eels, done in the same way, are a good deal like the lamprej% When there is spawn, it must be fried and put round. XotP..—Cyder will do in common instead of white wine. FLOUNDERS.—Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie two hours to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg; cover with crumbs, and fry them. Water Souchy.—Stew two or three fiounders, some parslej'- leaves and roots, thirty pepper-corns and a qu ct of M’ater, till the fi.sh are boiled to pieces ; pulp them through a sieve. Set over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boned them, some perch, flounders, and some fresh leaves and roots of parsley; simmer all till done enough, then serve in a deep dish. Slices of bread and butter are to be sent to table, to eat with the souchv. HERRINGS AND SPRATS.—To Smoke Herrings. — Gean, and lay them in salt and a little saltpetre one night; then hang them on a stick, through the e5'es, in a row. Ilavo ready an ohl cask, in which put some sawdust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot; fi.x the stick over the smoke, and let them remain twenty-four hours. Fried Herrings.—Serve them of a light brown, n ith onions sliced and fried. Broiled Herrings.—Flour them first, and do of a good colour: plain butter for sauce. Potted Herrings arc very good done like l^fackcrel, seo page 28. To Dress Rod Herings.—Choose those that arc large and c