CArLIFLOAVEK IX WniTE SATTCE—DROCCOLI—SPIXACn 131 and stew two hours gently. They should be lightly floured at :ifirst. Eoast Onions should be done with all the skins on. They eat well alone with only salt and cold butter, or with roast pota- toes or beetroots. To Stew Celery.—"Wash six heads and strip off their outer leaves, either hidve or leave them whole, according to their size ; cut into lengths of four inches. Put them into a stew-pan with a cup of broth or weak wliite gra\’y, stew till tender; then add two -spoonfuls of cream and a little flour and butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all together. To Boil Cauliflowers.—Choose those that are close and ■white, cut oflT the green leaves, and look carefully that thei’e are no caterpillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold water, then boil them in milk and water, and take care to skim the saucepan that not the least foulness may fall on the flower. It must be •served very white and rather crisp. Cauliflower in White Sauce.—Half boil it, then cut it into diandsome pieces, and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepper; simmer half ■an hour, then put a little cream, butter, and flour j shake and ?simmer a few minutes, and serve. To Dress Cauliflowers and, Parmesan. — Boil a cauli- •flower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalk so that the flower will •stand upright about two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew- "pan with a little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which •will be but a few minutes, then dish it with the sauce round, and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. To Dress Broccoli.—Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough skin off them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and boil them a shorter time than tlie heads. Some salt must be put into the water. Serve with or without toast. Spinach, requires great care in washing and picking it. When that is done, throw it into a saucepan that will just hold it, -sprinkle it with a little salt, and cover close. The pan must be ■set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter: it must come to table pretty dry, and looks well if pressed into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. To Dress Beans.—Boil tender with a bunch of pansley, which must be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must be served to cat with, but not boiled with them. Fricasseed Windsor Beans.—When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a white sauce ready hot; just heat them through in it, and serve. If any arc not of a fine green, do not use them for thi.s dish. French Beans.—String, and cut them into four or eight; the last look.s best. J^ay them in salt and water, and when the sauce- pan boil.s put them in with some salt. As soon n.s they arc done •serve them immediately, to preserve the green colour. Or wlicu