GIBLET S0T7P—PAUTEIDGE SOEP. 85 broth made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to Tasrs. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, as will be directed in the next receipt, and a roll. An excellent White Soup.—Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal after cutting off as much meat as will make col- loi)s. two or three shank-bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a quarter of a povmd of very fine undrest lean gammon of bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon peel, two or three onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white pepper; boil all in three quarts of water till the meat falls quite to pieces. ZS^ext day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sedi- ment, and put it into a saucepan of the nicest tin. If maccaroni is used, it should be added soon enough to get perfectly tender after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thick- ening. which is to be made as follows:—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling ; mince a large slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread ; add all this to a pint of tliick cream, a bit of fresh lemon peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve; this thickening is then fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for half an hour afterwards. A Plainer White Soup.—Two or three pints of soup may be made of a small knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in the last article; and both served together, adding a quarter of a pint of good mdk. Two spoonfuls of cream and a httle ground rice will give it a proper thickness. Giblet Soup.—Scald aud clean three or four sets of goose or duck giblets; set them to stew, with a i^ound or two of gra\^'^-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal; an ox-tail, or some shanks of mutton ; with three onions, a large bunch of sweet herb.s, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of .salt. Put five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards (which mu.st be each in four pieces) are ciuite tender: skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonfuls of mu.sl>room-iiow- der, and an ounce of butter mi.xed with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. Partridge Soup.—Take two old partridges, skin them, and cut them into pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of cehry, and three large onions cut into slices. IVy them all in butter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then put them into a stew-pan with five pints of boiling water, a fowpepiicr- coms, a shank or two of mutton, and a little salt. Slew it gimtlv iwo hours, then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan, with some stewed celery and fried bread: when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen aud serve it up hot.