51 TEAL ROLLS—5XIXCED VEAL—CUTLETS MAINTEXON'. with slices of fat bacon and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, simmer it two hours, then take out the bacon, and "laze the veal. Serve it on mushrooms, or with sorrel sauce, or what ehe you please. Veal Eolis of either Cold Meat or Fresh.—Cut thin slices; and spread on them a fine seasoning of a very few crumbs, a little chopped bacon or scraped ham, and a little suet, parsley, and shalot (or instead of the parslej^ and shalot, some fresh mushrooms stewed and minced), pepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded mace. This stuffing may either fill up the roll like a sausage, or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie it up very tight, and stew it very slowly in a gravy and a glass of sherry. Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely. Harrico of Veal.—Take the best end of a small neck; cut the bones short, but leave it whole: put it into a stew-pan, jvist cover with brown gravj-; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two cabbage- lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth; j)ut them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with forcemeat-balls around it. A Dunelm of Cold Veal or Fowl.—Stew a few small mush- rooms in their own liquor and a bit of butter, a quarter of an hour; mince them very small, and add them (with their liquor) to mince veal, with also a little pepper and salt, some cream and a bit of butter rubbed in less than half a tea-spoonful of fiour. Sim- mer three or four minutes, and serve on thin sippets of bread. Minced Veal.—Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop it. Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little weak broth, milk, or water; simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil, and add a bit of butter rubbed in fiour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape round tne dish. To Pot Veal.—Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you m&y do it as follows:— Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some mar;e, pepper-corns, and two or three cloves; lay it close into a potting-pan that will but just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake It three hours ; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt to taste : put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon; otherwise only a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. To Pot Veal or Chicken with Ham.—Pound some cold veal or white of chicken, season as directed in the last article, and pot layers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred ; iircss each down and cover with butter. Cutlets Maintenon.—Cut slices about three rpiartcrs of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both •sides with egg: dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, pars- ley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg