SAllION—COD. 25 fit to dry ; Mope it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a diy place ; keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried sahnon is eaten broded in paper, and only just warmed through, with egg sauce and mashed potatoes ; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. An excellent Dish of Dried Salmon.—Pull some into flakes ; hare ready some eggs boiled hard, and chopped large; put both into half a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour ; skim it and stir till boiling hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. To Pickle Salmon.—Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boU the liquor with bay leaves, peppercorns, and salt j add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. Another way.—After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and divide into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, twelve bay leaves, six blades of mace, and a quarter of an ounce of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till aU is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add more, and bod quick three quarters of an hour. "WTien all is cold, pack the fish in something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to x>lentifully cover. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drained from the fi.sh. and occasionally boiled and skimmed. Salmon Collared.—Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with bay leaves, salt and botli sorts of f)epper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and )oil quick the lirpior, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It i.s an elegant disli, and extremely good. COD.—Some people boil the cod whole ; but a large head and shouhlcrs contain all the fish that is ))ropcr to help, the thinner part.s being overdone and tasteless, before the thick are reatly. But the whole fish may be purchased at titnes mf»re rensonal)ly, and the lower half, if spririkh-d and hung up, will be in high ])er- fpr-t\f>n in one or twr< flays. Or it may be made salter, and served with egg sauce, potatoes, ami j)arsni|<s. (.'ofl wfien small is usually very clicap. If boiled (|uilo fret'll it is watf-ry ; fait f:ats (•xecllcnl ly if sailed .and bung up for a flay to give it firmness, then stufl'cfl and broiled or boilcfl. Cod’a Head and Shouldora will eat mncli liner by having a little salt rul)b al flo-An the bone, and along I lie thick part, even if to be eaten the same flay.