DIEECTIO .1? FOR CARrlj-G. If some fine shalot vinegar boiliuhot; mince the meat larj^e, and a good deal of fat; sprinkle it with salt, and ponr the shalot vinegar and the gravy on it. Help with a spoon, as quickly as possible on hot plates. Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way as fillet of veal. It should be kept even all over. "When helping the fat, observe not to hack it, but cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut off the beef before you begin to help, as directed for the Edge-bone. FiUet of Veal.—In an ox this part is round of beef. Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help the next slice. The bone is taken out and the meat tied close, before dressing; which makes the fillet very solid. It should be cut thin and very smooth. A stuffing is put into the flap which completely covers it; you must cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappointment of the carver. Breast of Veal.—One part (which is called the brisket) is thickest, and has gristles ; put your knife about four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Calf’s Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if properly managed. Cut slices from a to h, letting the knife go close to the bone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat sweet- bread, which you should help a .slice of from c to d with the other part. !Many like the eye; which you must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide in two. if the jaw-bone be taken off, there wiU be found some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, which is reckoned a nicety ; the lady of the house should be acquainU-d with all things that are thought so, that she may dis- tribute them among her guest.s. Shotilder of Mutton.— This i.H a very good joint, and by many preferred to the leg ; it being very full of gravy, if properly roa.sted, and prvluces many nice bits. The figure represents it as laid in the dish with its back iipfj» rmo,Ht. When it is first cut, it should be in the hollow part of it, in wi.j should be passed deep to ,he bone. The prime part of the fat cut out in thin slices and the hollow part cut in the line direction of n, h, and tho knife lies on the oiit< r < (lge, and it is to bo in the dir< etionofe to f. If many nro at table, «, h, is eaten, some very good u