L'54 TO OnEEN FEEITS FOE PEESEEVING OE FICKEING. tables, page 134 : on -whicL lay slices of liver fried a beautiful brown, and slices of bacon just warmed at the fire, and laid on each. On the outside part of the herbs lay eggs fried verj' nicely, and then trimmed round; or they ma}" be served on the herbs, and the liver garnished with the bacon separately. To Preserve Suet a Twelvemonth.—As soon as it comes in, choose the firmest part, and pick free from skin and veins. In a very nice saucepan, set it at some distance from the fire, that it may melt without frying, or it will taste. When melted, pour into a pan of cold water. When in a hard cake, wipe it very dry, fold it in fine paper, and then in a linen bag, and keep it in a diy but not hot place. When used, scrape it fine, and it will malce a fine crust, either with or without butter. SWEETMEATS.—To Green Fruits for Preserving or Pickling.—Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches while green for the first, or radish-pods, French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both processes ; and put them, with vine-leaves under and over, into a block-tin preserving-pan, with spring- water to cover them, and then the tin cover to exclude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour ofl‘ the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice; they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. To Clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats.—Break as much as I’equired in large lumps, and \)ut a pound to half a pint of water in a bowl, and it will dissolve better than when broken small. Set it over the fire, noth the well-whipt white of an egg; let it boil up, and, when ready to run over, pour a little cold water in to give it a check ; but when it rises a second time, take it off the fire, and set it by in the pan for a quarter of an hour, during which the foulness will sink to the bottom, and leave a black scum on the top, which take ofl’ gently with a skimmer, and pour the syrup into a vessel very quickly from the sediment. To Candy any Sort of Fruit.—When finished in the S3Tup, put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water to take off the s^ rup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin be- fore the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a slightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautifid. To prepare Barberries for Tartlets.—Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, and to every pound weigh three quarters of a pound of lump sugar; put the fruit into a stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a saucepan of water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft; put them and the sugar into a preserving-paii, and boil them gently fifteen minutes. Use no metal but silver. Barberries in Bunches.—Have read}" bits of fiat white