MUTTON' HAM—ilUTTOX ST£AK3 MAINTEN'ON’. G7 ■and witii jelly-sauce. A feu* fresh mushrooms are a great im- provement ; but if to cat like hare do not iu?e these, nor the lemon pickle. Mutton Ham.—Choose a fine fresh leg of wether-mutton, of twelve or fourteen pounds weight; let it be cut ham-shape, and ^hang two days. Then i>ut into a stew-pan half a i)Ound of bay -salt, the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a :pound of coarse sugar, all in powder; mix and make it quite hot; then rub it well into the ham. Let it be turned in the liquor every day; at the end of four days put two ounces more of com- ;mon salt; in twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood-smoke a week. It is to be used in slices with stewed cah- bace, mashed potatoes or eggs. Mutton Collops.—Take a loin of mutton that has been well -hung; and cut from the part next the leg, some collops very thin. Take out the sinews. Season the collops with salt, pepper, and :mace; and strew over them shred pai’sley, thyme, and two or :three shalots: fry them in butter till half done; add half a pint of gravy, a httle juice of lemon, a piece of butter rubbed in flour, land simmer the whole very gently five minutes. They should be ‘served immediately, or they will be hard. Mutton Cutlets in the Portuguese Way.—Cut the chops; :and half-fry them with sliced shalot or onion, chopped parsley, and two bay leaves; season with pepper and salt; then lay a forcemeat on a piece of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist the paper up, leaving a hole for the end of the bones to go through. . Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with sauce Hobart; or, as the sea- •soning makes the cutlets high, a little gravy. Mutton Steaks should be cut from a loin or neck that has hung; if a neck, the bones should not be long. They should be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half done, and often turned: take them up into a verj' hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and •serve hot and hot the moment they are done. Steaks of Mutton, or Lamb, and Cucumbers.—Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, sprinkle them with salt and pour vinegar over them. Fry the chops of a fine brown, and put them into a stew-pan ; drain the cucumbers, and put over the • steaks ; add some sliced onions, pepper, and salt; pour hot water or weak broth on them; stew and skim well. Mutton Steaks Maintenon.—Half-fry, strew them while hot with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper imme- diately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper docs not catch : rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. Mutton Sausages.—Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton that ha.s been either roasted or boiled; chop it ex- tremely small, and season it with pepper, salt, macc, and nutmeg: a/ld to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a (piarter of a poiuid of graterl bread, some of the anchovy liouour, and the yolks and whites of two eirgs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls or sausage-shape