198 BHOTH OP BEEF, MUTTON, ANB TEAL—EEL BROTH. bit of thyme and parsley, and if approved a slice of onion. Let it boil very quick, skim it nicely; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the wliole process. A very Supporting Broth against any kind ofWeak- ness.—Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large hand- ful of chervil, in two quai-ts of water to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herb or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. A very Nourishing Veal Broth.—Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten pepper corns, an onion, and a large bit of bread, and three quarts of w'ater, into a stew-pot that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, and been skimmed : or bake it; strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will require four hours. Broth of Beef, Mutton, and Veal.—Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mut- ton, sweet herbs, and ten peppercorns, into a nice tin saucepan, with five quarts of water; simmer to three quarts; and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. Soup and bi’oth made of different meats arc more supporting, as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as possible ; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. Calves’ Feet Bi’Oth.—Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half; strain and set it by; when to be used, take off the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with half a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and beat it up till it be ready to boil, then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butter, the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but do not let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon-peel into it. Another.—Boil two calves’ feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, two or three blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints ; strain, and take off the fat. Chicken Broth.—Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken panada was made of, as in page 200, after taking off the_ skin and rump, into the water it was boiled in, with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer tin the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not water enough, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds, with a tea- spoonful of water, fine, boil it in the broth, strain, and, when cold, remove the fat. Eel Broth.—Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a lew