184: SACK MEAD—COWSLIP MEAD—IMPEBIAL—EATAFIA. that it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy. If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to keep a cask always for it, and bottle ofi'qne year’s wine just in time to make the next, which, allowing the six months of infusion, would make the wine to be eighteen mouths old. In cyder counties this way is very economical; and even if not thought strong enough, the addition of another quarter of a hundred of raisins M’ould be sufficient, and the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are pressed through a horse-hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit by distillation, and must be sent to a chemist who will do it (but if for that purpose, they must be very little pressed), or they will make excellent vinegar, on which article see page 98. The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making, being very acid. Haisin "Wine with.out Cyder.—On four hundredweight of Malagas pour one hogshead of spring-water, stir well daily for fourteen days, then squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, and tun the liquor ; when it ceases to hiss, stop it close. In six months rack it off into another cask, or into a tub, and after clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, but do not wash it; add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it close, and in six months bottle it. Take care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which refer to the preceding receipt. Sack Mead.—To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To every gallon add an onnce of hops, then boil it half an hour and let it stand till next day; put it into your cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. Cowslip Mead.—Put thirty pounds o^ honey into fifteen gal- lons of water, and boil till one gallon is wasted; skim it, take it off the fire, and have ready a dozen and a half of lemons quartered; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them; put the re- mainder of the liquor into a tub with seven pecks of cowslip-pips ; let them remain there all night, and then put the liquor and the lemons to eight spoonfuls of new yeast and a handful of sweet- brier ; stir all well together and let it work three or four days. Strain it, and put into the cask : let it stand six months, and then bottle it for keeping. Imperial,—Put two ounces of cream of tartar and the juice and paring of two lemons into a stone-jar, pour on them seven quarts of boiling water, stir and cover close. When cold sweeten with loaf-sugar, and straining it, bottle and cork it tight. This is a vei’.v pleasant liquor and very wholesome; but from the latter consideration was at one time drank in such quantities as to be- come injurious. Add, in botthng, half a pint of rum to the whole quantity. Ratafia.—Blanch two onnces of peach and apricot kernels, bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar-candy in a cup of cold water,