pig’s nARStET—-MOCK RRAWK—BLACK PUDDINGS. 61 the pickle, if to be dressed with cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them in a little milk ; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon peel. Before j'ou serve add a little cream, floui’, butter, land salt. Jelly of Pig’s Feet and Ears.—Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a handful of ehopped sage, the same of parslej"-, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, land mace, in fine powder; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then q[>our the whole into a melon-form. Pig’s Harslet.—Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and •'fat and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to maake it tender; season ■with pepper, salt, sage, and a little oniou •shred fine; when mixed, put all into a cawl, and fasten it up tight ■>with a needle and thread. Boast it on a hanging-jack, or by a •string. Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. Serve -with a sauce of port-wine and water, and mustard, just Boiled up and put into the dish. Mock Bra'wn.—Boil a pair of neat’s feet very tender; take the nneat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with com- rmon salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough; take out the bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very •tender, then hang it up in the cloth till cold ; after which keep it in a sousing liquor, as is directed in the next article. Souse for Bra-wn, and for Pig’s Peat and Ears.—Boil la quarter of a peck of %\ heat-bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of •rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt iu it, •for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold. _To make Black Puddings.—The blood must be stirred •with salt till cold. Put a quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, to soak one night; and soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. In the meantime prepare the guts by washing, turning, and scraping with salt and water, and changing the water several times. Chop fine a little winter-savoury and thyme, a good quantity of penny- •royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger, and nutmeg: mix these with three pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs well beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread, grits, &c. all up with the seasoning ; when well mixed, have ready some hog’s fat cut into large bits ; and as you fill the skins, put it in at proper di.stances. Tie in links, only half filled, and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. AVTicn boiled, lay them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes iu water, wipe, and put them into a Dutch oven. If there are not skins enough, ]iut the stufling into ba.sona, and boil it covered with floured cloths ; and slice and fry it when used. Another ■way.—Soak all night a quart of bruised grits iu as