■\VIXE VIXEGAK—XASTEETIUM: CAPERS. 99 fills of salt, three tea-spoonfuls of pepper, and half a tea-spoon- ful of Cayenne. After standing four days, give the whole a boil; when cold, strain and filter the liquor tlirough paper. Keep in : small bottles to add to salad, or eat with meat. Wine Vinegar.—After making raisin wine, when the fruit !has been strained, lay it on a heap to heat, then to every hundred 1 weight put fifteen gallons of water—set the cask, and put yeast, .&c., as before. As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and one on •which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two might always be ikept preparing, according to what suited. If the raisins of wine -were ready, that kind might be made ; if a great plenty of goose- berries made them cheap, that sort; or if neither, then the sugar rvinecar—so that the cask may not be left empty, and grow mmsty. IS asturtiums for Capers.—Keep them a few days after they lire-gathered, then pour boiling vinegar over them, and when cold, fcover. They will not be fit to eat for some months, but are then iSnely flavoured, and by many preferred to capers. To make Mustard.—Mix the best Durham flour of mustard wvith boiling water till of a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly fsmooth; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar, close covered, und put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which should be w iped daily round the edges. Another way, for immediate use. — Mix the mustard Fvith new milk by degrees, to be quite smooth, and add a little raw ;3ream. It is much softer this way, is not bitter, and will keep ^rell. The patent mustard is by many preferred, and it is perhaps as t;heap, oeing always ready; and if the pots are returned, three- l*»ence is allowed for each. I A tea-spoonful of sugar to half a pint of mustard is a great im- Iirovement, and softens it. ■ Kitchen Pepper,—Mix in the finest powder one ounce of gin- ger; of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, •lalf an ounce each ; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it in bottle; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, goes much -irther than when used whole. It must be dried before pounded, rad should be done in quantities that may be wanted in three or >ur months. Nutmeg need not be done, but the others should kept in separate bottles with a little label on each. To Dry Mushrooms.—Wipe them clean, and of the large .-.ke the brown, and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. iThcn used simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near eir former size: to simmer them in their own liquor till it dry ) into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a )od way, with spice or not, as above, before made into i)ow dcr. ‘ Tie down with bladder, arnl keep in a dry place, or in ])apcr. 'Mushroom Powdor.—Wash half a peck of large muslirooma