56 SWEETJJUE.VDS—KI1)^•K\■S—I’OlUC. nutmeg, ami tlie liquor of tlio oysters. Cover it tight, and simmer three quarters of an liour. Servo witli foreemoat balls, and h;ird eggs in the tureen. An excellent and very clieap mock turtle may bo made of two or three cow-heels baked with two nounds and a half of gravy beef, lierbs, ttc., as above with cow-lieels and veal. Calf’s Liver.—Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and boil nicely: rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. Calf’s Liver Roasted.—Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and stuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, herbs, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a oit of butter, and an egg : sew the liver up; then lard it, or wrap it in a vcal- cawl, and roast it. Serve Avith a good brown graA'y, and currant jolly. To Dress the Liver and Lights.—Half-boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them in middling-sized mince, piit to it a spoonful or two of the Avator that boiled it, a bit of butter. Hour, salt, and pepper, simmer ten nAinutes, and servo hot. Sweet-breads.—Half boil them, and stCAV them in a Avhito gravy ; add eream. Hour, butter, lAutmeg, salt, and Avhito pepper. Or do them in broAvn sauce seasoned. Or parboil them, and then cover them Avith crumbs, herbs, and seasoning, and broAvn them in a Dutch OA'^eu. Serve Avith but- ter, and mushroouA kctchuj) or gravy. Sweet-breads Roasted.—I’arboil tAvo largo ones; Avhen edd, lard them Avith bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, plain butter, and mushroom ketchup. Sweet-bread Ragout.—Cut them about the size of a Avalnut, Avash and dry them, and fry tliem of a fine brown; pour io them a good graA'y, seasoned Avith salt, poiAper, allspice, and either mushrooma, or m\ishroom ketchup : strain, and thicken Avith but- ter and a little Hour. You may add truHles, morels, and mush- rooms. Kidneys.—Chop veal kidney, and some of the fat; likewise a little leek or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up Avith an egg into balls, and fry them. Calf’s heart, stufl’ and roast as a beef’s licart, or sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. PORK, &c.—Hacon hogs, and porkers m*e diHercntly cut up. Hogs are kept to a largo size; the chine (or backbone) is out doAvn each side, the Avholo length, and is a prime part cither boiled or roasted. The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut out Avith very little meat to the bone. On each side there is a large spare-rib ; Avhich is Aisually divided into tAvo, one SAveet-bone and a blade-bone. The bacon is the Avhole outside; atul contains a fore leg, and a ham; Avhich last is the liiiul-leg, but if left Avith the bacon, is called a gammon. There are also griskins. Hog’s lard is the inner fat of the bacon hog. Pickled pork is made of the flesh of the hog, ns Avell ns bacon. Porkers are not so old as liogs: tlieir flesh is whiter and less