SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH—VEAL BEOTH. 84 gredients, therefore time should be allowed for soups and gravies j and they are best if made the day before they are wanted. Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put at the bottom of the pan and stewed, and the herbs, roots, &c., with butter, than when water is put to the meat at fi I’st; and the gravy that is drawn from the meat should be almost dried up before the water is put to it. Do not use the sediment of gravies, &c., that have stood to be cold. When onions are strong, bod a turnip with them, if for sauce ; this will make them mdd. If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover them in boiling, that the wateiy particles may evaporate. A clear jelly of Cow-Heels is very useful to keep in the house, being a great improvement to soups and gravies. TruiH.es ana Morels thicken soups and sauces, and give them a fine flavour. Wash half an ounce of each carefully, then simmer them a few minutes in water, and add them with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, &c. till tender. SOUPS, &c.—Scotch Mutton Broth.—Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim it well, and then simmer it an hour and a half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut into pieces (two bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper; skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the same number of turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite tender: add four large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wetted with cold water. The meat should stew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is an excellent winter dish. Veal Broth.—Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, two ounces of rice, a httle salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. Colouring for Soups and Gravies.—Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water, and half an ounce of the finest butter, into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it witli a wooden spoon till of a bright brown. Then add half a pint of water; boil, skim, and when cold bottle a,nd cork it close. Add to SOU]) or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. A Clear Brown Stock for Gravy Soup or Gravy.— Put a knuckle of veal, a i)ound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, into a stew-pan, with two or three scraped carrots, two onions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy; if for broMm gravy put some of the above colouring, and boil a few minutes. An excellent Soup.—Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slices of undressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantil.y of water; simmer till very strong, and lower it with a good beet-