MISCELLAKEOTJS OBSERVATIONS. 6 people haggle meat so much, as not to he able to help half-a-dozen persons decently from a large tongue, or a sirloin of beef; and the dish goes away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If tlie daughters of the family w'ere to take the head of the table under the direction of their mother, they would fiiliil its duties with grace, in the same easy manner as an early practice in other domestic aftairs gradually tits them for their own future houses. Habit alone can make good carvers ; but some prineinal directions are hereafter given, with a reference to the annexed plates. The mistress of a family should always remember that the wel- fare and good management of the house depend on the eye of the superior ; and consequently that nothing is too trifling for her notice, whereby waste may be avoided; and this attention is of more importance now that the price of every necessary of life is so greatly increased. If a lady has never been accustomed, wliile single, to think of family management, let her not upon that account fear that she cannot attain it: she may consult others who are more experienced, and acquaint herself with tlie necessary quantities of the several articles of family ex]ienditure, in ]n’uportion to the number it con- sists of, the i)roper prices to ]iay, &c., &c. A minute account of the annual income, and the times of payment should be taken in writing; likewise an estimate of the supposed amount of each article of expense ; and those who are early accus- tomed to calculations on domestic articles, will acquire so accimate a knowledge of vdiat their establishment rcquiies, as will give them the happy medium between ])rodigality and parsimony, with- out acquiring the character of meanness. _ Perhaps few branches of female education are so useful, as great readiness at figures. Accounts shoukl be regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted to be entered; and if balanced eyery week and month, &c., the iucome and outgoino-s will be ascertained with facility, and their proportions to each other be duly observed. Some people lix on stated sums to be appropriated to each ditierent article, and keep the money in separate imrses; as house, clothes, pocket, education of children, etc. Whichever ^yay accounts be entered, a certain mode should be adopted, and strictly adhered to. Many women are unfortunately ignorant of the state of their hus- band’s income; and others are only made acquainted with it, when some speculative .project, or ])rolitable trausaefion, leads them to make a false estimate of what can be atlbrded; and it too often happens that both parties, far from consulting each other, squander money in ways that they would even udsh to forget: wliereas may riage should be a state of mutual and i)erfect conlidencc, and simi- larity of pursuits, which would secure that happiness it was intended to bestow. 'J'here are so many valuable women who excel as wives, that it is a fair inference there would bo few extravagant ones, were they consulted by their husbands on subjects that conceim tlie mutual interest of both parties. Within the knowledge of the writer of these pages, many i'amilics have been reduced to poverty by the want of openness in the man on the subject of his allairs; and