36 ON KEEPING MEAT and aitchbones of beef are often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, and the part that has been stnick always taints; therefore do not purchase these joints if bruised. The shank-bones of mutton should be saved; and, after soaking and crushing, may be added to give richness to gravies or soups. They are also particularly nourishing for sick persons. When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clai’ifv. Dripping will baste everything as well as butter, exeept fowls and game; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be used. The fat off a neck or loin of mutton makes a far lighter pudding than suet. Meat and vegetables that the frost has touched, should be soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, or more if they are much iced. Putting them into hot water, or to the fire, till thawed, makes it impossible for any heat to ^ess them pro- perly afterwards. In warm weather, meat should be examined when it comes in ; and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and then well washed. In the height of summer, it is a very safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an hour in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to have been fly-blown; then wipe it quite dry, and have salt ready, and rub it thoroughly in every part, throwing a handful over it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle in, which will make it ready for the table in three or four days. If to be Very much corned, wrap it in a well-floured cloth, after rubbing it with salt. This last method will corn fresh beef fit for the table the day it comes in, but it must be put into the pot when the water boils. If the Aveather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. The water in which meat has been boiled makes an excellent soup for the poor, by adding to it vegetables, oatmeal, or peas. Poast beef bones, or shank-bones of ham, make fine peas-soup ; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken oil'. In some families great loss is sustained by the spoiling of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalted, is, as before directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces of charcoal over it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm weather, the butcher should be oraered to coyer it close, and bring it early in the morning; but even then, if it is kept on the road V hile he serves the customers, who live nearest to him, it will very likely bo fly-blown. This happens often in the country. Wash all meat before you dress it; if for boiling, the colour wul bo better for soaking; biit if for roasting, dry it. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the moment if, boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the