101 FOECEITEAT IKGEEDIENT3. Forcemeat Cold fowl or veal. Scraped ham. Fat bacon. Beef-suet. Crumbs of bread. Parsley. WTiite pepper. Salt. Isutmeg. Yolk and white of eggs well beaten, to bind the mixture. yet, if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a marked variety in the taste of the forcemeat, as well as of the gravies. It should be consistent enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy. Ingredients.— Oi'sters, Anchovy. Tarragon. Savoury. Pennyroyal. Knotted Marjoram. Thyme. Basil. Yolks of hard eggs Cayenne. Garlic. Shalot. Chives. Jamaica pepper, in fine pow- der, or tw'o or three cloves. The first column contains the articles of which the forcemeat may be made, without any striking flavour; and to those, may be added some of the difierent ingredients of the second column, to vary the taste. For Cold Savoury Pies. — The same: only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. The livers (if the pie be of rabbit or fowls) mixed with fat and lean pork, instead of bacon, and sea- soned as above, are excellent. For Hare, see to roast, page 82. Ditto, for baked Pike, page 29. Ditto, for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod, page 29. Ditto, for Soles, page 29. Ditto, for Mackerel, page 28. Ditto, forFisn Pie, page 103. Very fine Forcemeat Balls, for Fish Soups, or Fish Stewed, on Maigre Days.— Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, witn two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one ditto of oyster liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and tw'o eggs long beaten ; make into balls, and fry of a fine brown in butter. Forcemeat as for Turtle, at the Bush, Bristol. —A pound of fresh suet, one ounce ot ready dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, bread crumbs, a little shalot or onion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley^ and lemon thyme finely shred ; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste: roll into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just ns it boils up. Vf hen of a light brown, take them out, and drain them before the fire. If the suet be moist or stale, a great many moro eggs will be necessary.