80 TO KEEP GAME. then they will eat excellently. If a high flavour is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne, before baking. Larks, and other Small Birds.—Draw, and spit them on a bird-spit; tie this on another spit, and roast them. Baste gently with butter, and strew bread crumbs upon them till half- done ; brown and serve with fried crumbs round. GAME, &c.—To Keep Game, &c.—Game ought not to be thrown away even when it has been kept a very long time; for when it seems to be spoiled, it may often be made fit for eating by nicely cleaning and washing with vinegar and water. If there is any danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them, then wash in two or three waters,, and rub them with salt. Have ready a large saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one, drawing them up and down by the legs, that the water may pass through them. Let them stay five or six minutes in, then hang them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper and salt the insides well Before roasting, wash them well. Tlie most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved thus. Those that live by suction cannot bo done this way, as the3’- are never drawn ; and pehaps the heat might make them worse, as the water could not pass through them; but they bear being high. Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. Pheasants and Partridges.—Boast them as turkey, and serve with a fine gravy (into which put a small bit of garlic) and bread sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. For the manner of tru.ssing a pheasant or partridge, see page 73. To Pot Partridge.—Clean them nicely; and season with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Bub every part well; then lay the breasts downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them ; then cover the pan with a coarse llour-paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. A very Cheap Way of Potting Birds.—Prepare them as directed in the last receipt; and when baked and grown cold, cut them into proper pieces for helping, pack tliem close in a large - potting-pot, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. • Cover them with butter, and one-third part less will be wanted than when, the birds are done whole. The butter that has ; covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for meat pies. To Clarify Butter for Potted Things.—Put it into a 1 sauce-boat, and set that over the fii’e in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts over the potted things ; they will sink to the bottom. To Pot Moor Game.—Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely: then dry them; and season, inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allsp>ico, and salt. Pack them in as