APPLE POOL—OEAXGE POOL—CKEAMS. 143 well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it. . Apple Fool.—Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and I then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c., and mix as ' before. Orange Fool.—Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three : ' egss well beaten, a pint of cream, a httle nutmeg and cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow fire, and I stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted butter, but it must I not be boiled; then pour it into a dish for eating cold, i A Cream.—Boil half a pint of cream and half a pint of mdk, ' with two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, a few almonds beaten to paste, with a drop of water, a little sugar, orange-flower water, and a tea-spoonful of flour, having been rubbed down with a little I cold milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put a little I lemon-juice to the cream, and serve it in cups or lemonade i glasses. An excellent Cream.—Whip up three-quarters of a pint of I ver>- rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon ( peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar, to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it in a sieve or in a ) form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very 1 light puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the length of a finger, I and about two inches thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or I a fight glaze with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons to line t the edge of the dish. Burnt Cream.—Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnaj^ mon and some lemon peel; take it off the fire, and pour it very slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stiri’ing till half cold ; sweeten, and take out the spice, itc.; pour it into the dish; when cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a sala- mander. Another way.—Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling lemon peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a salamander. Sack Cream.—Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon peel; stir it over a gentle fire till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, with long pieces of dry toast. Brandy Cream.—Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded bitter almonds, in a little milk. When cold, add to it the yolks of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, sweeten, and put to it two glasses of the best brandy; and when well mixed, pour to it a quart of thin cream ; set it over the fire, but do not let it boil; Stir one way till it thickens, then pour it into cups, or low glasse.s. "W hen cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may bo put in each, if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald the cream previou-sly. Ratafia Cream.—Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine leaves, in a full pint of cream; strain it, and when cold add tlio