DAMSON CHEKSE—MDSCLE-PLUM CHEESE. 162 syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar, six or eight minutes, but very gently; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that rises: put the fruit sii.gly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. II you would candy it, do not add the syrup, but observe the direc- tions that will be given for candying fruit; some may be don*- each way. Damson Cheese.—Bake or boil the fruit in a stone-jar in a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, and for every two pounds of fruit weigh half a pound of sugar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil quickly till it begins to look dry ; take out the stones, and add the sugar, stir it well in, and simmer two hours slowly; then boil it quickly half an hour, till the sides of the pan candy : then pour the jam into pot- ting-pans or dishes, about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. It the skins be disliked, then the juice is not to be taken out; but after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones are to be cracked, or some of them, and the kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may be left in, and boiled to evaporate, but do not add the sugar until it has done so. The above looks well in shapes. Muscle-plum Cheese.—Weigh six pounds of the fruit, bake it in a stone jar, remove the stones, and take out the kernels to put in. Pour half the juice on two pounds and a half of good Lis- bon ; when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim it, and add the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juice is much eva- porated, taking care to stir it constantly, lest it burn. Pour it into small moulds, patty-pans, or saucers. The remaining juice may serve to colour cream, or be added to a pie. Biscuits of Fruit.—To the pulp of any scalded fruits, put of sifted sugar an equal weight; beat it two hours, then put it into little white paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn, the next day, and in two or three days box them. Quince Marmalade.—Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quantity of sugar ; to four pounds of the latter, put a quart ot water, boil and skim, and have ready against four pounds of quinces are tolerably tender by the following mode: lay them into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of water at the bottom, aud pack them with a little sugar strewed between: cover the jar close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the colour becomes red; then pour the fruit syrup and a quart of quince- juice into a preserving-pan, and boil all together till the marmalade J oe completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving ladle. This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done as mentioned, it re- quires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces in a jar, and then squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add as above, but dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. To Preserve Whole or Half Quinces.—Into two quarts