MAXAGEMEXT OF FOWLS. 193 differ in their opinion of which i.s best. The black are very juicy, but do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake ot their colour. They should bo fed as nearly as possible at the same hour and place. Potatoes boiled, unskinned, in a little water, and then cut, and either wet with skimmed milk or not, form one of the best foods. Tm-keys and fowls tlirive amazingly on them. The milk must not be sour. The best age for setting a hen is from two to five years ; and you should remark which hens make the best brooders, and keep those to laying who are giddy and careless of their young. In justice to the animal creation, however, it must be observed, there are but few instances of bad parents for the time their nursing is necessary. Hens sit twenty clays. Convenient places should be provided for their laying, as these will be proper for sitting likewise. If the hen-house is not secured from vermin, the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers on their heads ; those that crow are not looked upon as profitable. Some fine young fowls should be reared eveiy year, to keep up a stock of good breeders ; and by this attention and removing bad layers and careless nurses, you will have a chance of a good stock. Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which should be done from the end of February to the beginning of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. Broods of chickens are hatched all through the su7umer, but those that come out very late require much care tiU they have gained some strength. If the eggs of any other sort are put under the hen with some of her own, observe to add her own as many days after the others as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put lier upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If the eggs are large, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will be productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen-house should be large and high, and should be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will increase greatly. But hens must not be disturbed while sitting, for, if frightened, they sometimes forsake their nests. Wormwood and rue should be planted plentifully about their houses; boil some of the former, and sprinkle it about the floor, which should be of smooth earth, not paved. The windows of the house should be open to the ri-sint: sun, arid a hole must be left at the door to let the smaller fowls go in ; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door, 'ihere should be a small sliding board to shut down when tho fowls are gone to roost, which would prevent the smaller bcasls of prey from eornrnittiiig ravages ; and a good strong door and lock may possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of human enemies. When some of tho chickens arc hatched long boforo the others,