18 DlllKCTIOXS roll CARVING. ling the fork into the small end of the bone, pressing it to the body, and having passed the knife at d, turn the leg back, and if a young bird it will easily separate. To take off the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body; then put in the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direction d, c. Nothing but practice will enable people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it is not often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless the company be very large. There are two side bones by the wing, which may be cut off", as likewise the back and lower side-bones ; but the best pieces arc the breast, and the thighs after being divided from the arum- sticks. Haro.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the knife under the shoulder at «, aud so cut all the way^ down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a, h. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which with the legs is the part most esteemed. The. shoul- der must be cut off in a circidar line, as c, d, a ; lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut them, and then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy to every person. This way can only be practised when the hare is young; if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong arm; but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the joint, which you must endeavour to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs are taken off, there is a tine collop on each side the back, then divide the back into as many pieces as you please, and take off the shoulders, which are by many preferred, and are called the sportsman’s pieces. When every one is helped, cut off' the head, put your knife be- tween the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable you to lay the upper flat on your plate: then put the point of the knife into the centre, aud cut the head into two. The cars and brains may be helped then to those who like them. Carve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare ; cutting the back into two pieces, which with the legs are the prime. A Fowl.—A boiled fowl’s legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly; but before it is served, the skewers are to be re- moved. Lay the fowl on your plate, and place the joints, as cut off', on the dish. Take the wing off' in the direction of a to h, only dividing the joint with your knife, and then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the wing towards the legs, and the muscles will separate in a more complete form than if cut. Slip the knife