118 PANCAKES—ntlTTERS. the raeanthne, soah as many thin slices of breafl as •will cover the ■whole, in warm milk, over which lay a plate, and a weight to keep the bread close on the apples. Bake slowly three hours. To a middling-sized dish use half a pound of butter in the whole. Common Pancakes.—Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, or nut- meg, and ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. Or, when eggs are scai-ce, make the batter with flour, and small beer, ginger, &e., or clean snow, with floui*, and a very little milk, will serve as well as egg. Fine Pancakes, fried without Butter or Lard.—Beat six fresh eggs extremely well, and mix, M'hen strained, with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordi- nary pancake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth; then pour in the batter, to make thin pancakes. Pancakes of Rice.—Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly in a small quantity of water ; -n-hen cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg : stir in eight ounces of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. Irish Pancakes.—Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; set three ounces of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put to it: then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin; the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. Serve several, one on another. New England Pancakes.—Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt ; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once. Fritters.—Make them of any of the batters directed for pan- cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan; or make the plainer sort, and put pared apple sliced and cored into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an agreeable change. Fritters for company should be served on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat or ripe fruit may be made into fritters. Spanish Fritters.—Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. AVhen well soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. Potato Fritters.—Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine: beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above