risn SAUCE A.-la-ceasieii—oyster sauce. 97 it into small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal ■ the top. Another.—Chop twenty-foiu’ anchovies not washed, and ten shalots, and scrape three spoonfuls of horse-radish, with about ten blades of mace, twelve cloves, two sliced lemons, half a pint of anchovy liquor, a quart of hock, or Ehenish wine, and a pint of water ; boil to a quart; then strain off; and when cold, add thi-ee i lar^e spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, and put into small bottles well .corked. Fish Sauce without Butter.—Simmer very gently a quar- ter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (which must not ' be hard), with an onion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the : following spices lightly bruised ; four cloves, two blades of mace, I and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite 'tender, chop it small with two anchovies, and set the wliole on the I fire to bod tor a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the 1 meantime, have ready and well beaten the yolks of three fresh : eggs ; strain them, mis the liquor by degrees with them, and when ’weU mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire, keeping a basin ;in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the ! saucepan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Do not boil ’ them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of : melted butter. Fish Sauce a-la-Craster.—Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a pound of the best I anchovies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot of herbs (namely, savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram), and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of very strong gravy. Simmer all gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a ! sieve, and bottle it for use: the way of using it is, to bod some of it in the butter while melting. An excellent Substitute for Caper Sauce.—Boil slowly ■ |wme parsley, to let it become a bad colour, cut, but do not chop it fine; put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up and serve. Oyster Sauce.—Save the liquor in opening the oysters ; and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace and lemon peel. In the meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough; but first rub a little flour with it. Set them over the fire, and stir all the time ; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the saucepan near the fire, but not on it; for if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oysters will tliin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. Lobster Sauce.—I’ound the S|)awn, ami two anchovies; pour on them two spoonfuls of gravy; strain all into somo