ROUT DROP CAKES—3U0RT CAKES—PRUII CAKES. 171 laving half a pound of stoned jar-raisins chopped as line as pos- ibl^, mix them carefully so that there shall be no lumps, and add tea-cupfid of orange-Hower water. Beat the ingredients toge- her a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you nave none, a tin or copper cake-pan; take a white paper doubled :nd buttered, and put in the pan, round the edge, if the cake jatter fill it more than three parts, for space should be allowed or rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. Hout Drop Cakes.—Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto lutter, one ditto sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry; then «ret into a stifl’ paste with two eggs, and a large spoonful of ,'range-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto irandy; drop on a tin plate floured : a very short time bakes them. Flat Cakes, that will keep long in the house good,— I Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of :araways, with four or five eggs, and a few spoonfids of water, o make a stifl" paste; roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. Bake on tins lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of .ugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup ; while both are hot. dip lach cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time, and when the oven is cooler still, return them there ggain, and let them stay four or five hours. Little White Cakes.—Dry half a pound of flour; rub into it very httle pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few •araways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll t; thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake iifteen minutes on tin plates. Little Short Cakes.—Bub into a pound of dried flour four .unces of butter, four ounces of white powder-sugar, one egg, md a spoonful or two of thin cream to make into a paste. When Mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Mut them as before, and bake on tins. Plum Cakes.—Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of flne -Our, well dried, with a pound of dry and sBted loaf sugar, three r ounds of currants washed, and very dry, half a pound of raisins •toned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, ■■wenty Jamaica penpers, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon ut as fine as possible, and half a pound of almonds blanched and fl '-■eaten with orange-flower water. Melt two pounds of butter .1 a pint and quarter of cream, but not hot, put to it a int of sweet wine, a glass of brandy, the whites and yolks of welve eggs beaten apart, and half a pint of good yeast. Strain .ais liquid by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating them to- ether a full hour, then butter the hoop, or pan, and bake it. As ou put the batter in the hoop, or pan, throw in plenty of citron, *!! emon, and orange-candy. If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double-refined sugar ifted, and put a little with the white of an egg, beat it well, and •y degrees pour in the remainder. It must be whisked near an our, with the addition of a little orange-flower water, but mind ot to put much. M hen the cake is done, pour the iceing over, ami