7 inSCEILAXEOTJS OBSEEVATIOXS. thoxiili on these occasions the women were blamed, it has after- wards appeared, that they never were allowed to inquire, or suf- fered to reason upon what sometimes seemed to them imprudent. Many families have owed their prosperity full as much to the propriety of female management, as to the knowledge and activity of the father. The lady of a general officer observed to her man-cook, that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse was ottered ; —to which she replied :—“ Such is the sum I have allotted to house- keepin?; should it be exceeded one week, the next must pay for it. The General will have no public day this week.” Tlie fault was never repeated. March’s “ Family Book-keeper ” is a very useful work, and saves much trouble ; the various articles of expense being printed, wuth a column for every day in the year, so that at one view the amount of expenditure on each, and the total sum may be known. llrrady-money should be paid for all such things as come not into weekly bills, and even fur them a check is necessary. The best places f)r purchasing should be attended to. In some articles a discount of rive per cent, is allowed for ready-money in London and oGi- r large cities, and those who thus pay are usually best served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops ; but it is safest to deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goo'ls by underselling. To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them greatly, besides that a higiier itrice must be paid, and in long bills, articles never bought are often charged. l’erha])s the irregularity and failure of payment may have much evil influence on the price of various articles, and may contribute to tlie destruction of many families from the hiLdi'st to the lowe.st. Thus r'A'ularl}’ conducted, the exact state of money affairs will be known with ease; for it is delay of payment that occasions con- fusion. A nood cornmon-jdacc book should he always at hand, in v.'hieh to enter such hints of useful knowhalge, and other observa- tions, as are viv^ui h}' sen-.iblc cxijcrienced yaople. M'ant of atten- tion h) what ii adviicfl, or sup[)Osing things too minute to he worth h arinc, are the causes wliy ni> much ignorance jirevails on noces- aary suijjects among tho.ie who are not backward in frivolous ones. It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of the pi-iecs ami gf><’; !ric-;-ot all articles in common use, and of tli(; hi st tinii-s, as W’ il a< places, tor purchasing lln rn. She should also he acquainted wit.a the C'/rnjiarative firici.s of [irovisions, in order that she niaj' ho al/i" to suhstifu^e tho-e that are most reasonable, when they will answer as well for others of the same kind, hut whiidi are moro Co-tij'. A filse notion ot ecoriortiy lemls rminy to piirehas" as bar- gains wh 1*' is not wantefh and sometiffies never is n-e,l. Wb re this error iv-.i .'ol, niore moiU’y woold remain for oile r |Mirpo-es. It is n -t on .s’l d arootig hiwep f|e;i|i to pot off a larger i|uantitv of goo l-, by as-urmee th it th y are advatieitii>- in nr iei’; ami many who soyqdy tao'-y articles ;iri- -,o siieee,.,|111 j,, pi f^i| isir,n, that pnr- icna.sers not untrequeiitly go tar heyoml ile ir ori. inal intention,