TO CLEAX TIX COTEKS AVD PATENT PEWTEK POTS. 2\T must be washed ofl' with hot water, and the steel be dried before polishing. To Take Rust out of Steel.—Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on it, and in forty-eifirht horn’s use unslacked lime finely powdered, and rub imtil all the rust disappears. To Clean the Back of the Grate, the Inner Hearth, and the Fronts of Cast-iron Stoves.—Boil about a quarter of a pound of the best black lead, with a pint of small beer and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a beautiful brightness. Another way to Clean Cast Iron, and Black Hearths. —Mix black lead and whites of eggs well beaten together ; dip 1 painter’s brush, and wet all over, then rub it bright with a hard brush. To Take the Black off the Bright Bars of Polished Stoves in a few Minutes.—Eub them well with some of the following mixture on a bit of broadcloth ; when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not sand- paper. The Mixture.—Boil slowly one pound of soft soap in two quarts of water, to one. Of this jeUy take three or four spoonfuls, and mix to a consistence with emery, No. 3. To Clean Tin Covers, and Patent Pewter Porter Pots.— Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large cakes, the small being mixed with sand : mix a little of it powdered, with the least drop of sweet oil, and rub well and wipe clean ; then dust some drj' whiting in a muslin bag over, and rub bright with dry leather. Tlie last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be care- ful to guard against by wiping dry, and putting b3" the fire when they come from the parlour; for if but once hung up without, the steam will rust the inside. To Prevent the Creaking of a Door.—Eub a bit of soap on the hinges. A Strong Paste for Paper.—To two large spoonfuls of fine flour, put as much pounded resin as will lie on a shilling; mix with as much stron" beer as will make it of a due consistence, ancl boil half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. Fine Blacking for Shoes.—Take four ounces of ivory black, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, a table-spoonful of oil, and a pint of small beer; mix them gradually cold.