DIliECTIOJfS FOB CAETIB’G. 13 The cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bags, tapes for the collared things, &c., which if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when next used. Cold water thrown on cast iron, when hot, will crack it. In the following, and indeed all other receipts, though the quan- tities may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The diti'erent tastes of people require more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic, butter, &c., which can never be ordered by general rules ; and if the cook has not a good taste, and attention to that of her employer’s, not all the ingredients which nature and art can furnish, will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper articles should be at hand, and she must proportion them uritil the true zest be obtained, and a variety of flavour be given to the different dishes served at the same time. Those who require maigre dishes will And abundance in this little 'work ; and where they are not strictly so, by suet or bacon being directed in stuffings, the cook must use butter instead; and where :meat gravies (or stock, as they are called), are ordered, those made of fish must be adopted. DIRECTIOXS FOR CARVINO. The camdng knife for a lady should be light, and of a middling •size and rine edge. Strength is less required than address, in the •manner of using it: and to facilitate this, the cook shall give orders •to the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of all carcase joints of mutton, lamb, and veal (such as neck, breast, and loin), which may then he easily cut into thin slices attached to the adjoining bones. If the whole of the meat belonging to each bone should be t'»o thick, a small slice may be taken off between every two br>nes. The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of mutton, and he* f/ are to be helped in thin slices, neatly cut and smooth ; obser\itig to let the knife pass down to the hone in the mutton and beef join:-. The uidi should not be too far off the carver; as it gives an awk- ward iipp-iir.ince, and makes the task more difficult. Attention is to y>f; p.iid to help every one to a part of such articles as arc con- sider* d til*- h«*st. in lo ipin'/ fi.sh, take care not to break the flakes; which in nod and v*: y ':<*sfi salmon are large, and contrilmte much to the beauty of it-s *i|)i.* aiance. A fish-knife, not Ic ing sharp, divides it best on this a< i-ount. Help a part of the roe rnilt, or liver, to each person. The h e,, of carp, parts of those of cod and salrnoti, sounds (d'cod and fi is <)t turbot, are likewise esteemed niceties, and an* to he at- tendeii lecordinsfly. In c i up any wild-fowl, duck, goose, or turkey, for a largo party, it \ou cut the slices down from ,,iiuon to pinion, without making w tiers, there will he more prime |)i'.ec3.