TO BREW VERT FINE WELSH ALE--STRONG BEER OR ALE. 179 skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stifl paste, beat it with a rolling-piu, and work it very smooth. Eoll it thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. Plain and very Crisp Biscuits.—Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk, into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till quite smooth ; roll very thin, and eut into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. HOME BREWERY, WIHES, &c. To Brew very fine Welsh Ale.—Pour forty-two gallons of water hot, but not quite boiling, on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand three hours. In the meantime infuse four pounds of hops in a httle hot water, and put the water and hops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and bod them together three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the small beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or if you cannot get it, of small-beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and often. When the wort has done working the second or third day, the yeast will sink rather than rise in the middle, remove it then, and tun the ale as it works out; pour a quart in at a time, and gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or three days before stopping up. Strong Beer or Ale.—Twelve bushels of malt to the hogs- head for beer (or fourteen if you wish it of a very good body), eight for ale ; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered; mash it in the first half hour, and let it stand the remainder of the ■ time. Run it on the hops previously infused in water; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound. Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it beffins to boil. Cool a pailful—add f>.vo quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day; but if possible put together the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working; and when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. Let it stand twelve months in ca.sks, and twelve in bottles, before it be drunk. It will keep and be very fine eight or ten years. It should be brewed in the beginning of March. Great care must be taken that the bottles are perfectly prepared, ■and that the corks arc of the best sort. The ale will be ready in three or four month? ; and if the vent- peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at first for w aste. AfU:r the beer or ale has run from the grains, pour a hogsliead and half for the twelve bushels, and a hogshead of water if eight