27 SKATE—CARP. To Roast Sturgeon.—Put it on a lark spit, then tie it on a large spit; baste it constantly with butter; and serve with good gra^'y, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherr3'. Another way.—Put a piece of butter rolled in flour into a stew-pan -with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. Stir it over the fire till hot; then let it become lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with sorrel and anchovy sauce. An excellent Imitation of Pickled Sturgeon.—Take a fine large turkej', but not old; pick it very nicely, singe, and make it extremelj' clean: bone and wash it, and tie it across and across with a bit of mat-string washed clean. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a quart of water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of white (but not sweet) wine, and a very large handful of salt; boil and skim it well, then boil the turkej'. When done enough tighten the strings, and lay upon it a dish with a weight of two pounds over it. Bod the hquor half an hour ; and when both are cold, put the turkey into it. This udll keep some months, and eats more deh- cately than sturgeon; vinegar, oil, and sugar are usually eaten with it. If more vinegar or salt should be wanted, add when cold. Send fennel over it to table. Thornback and Skate should be hung one day at least before they are dressed ; and may be served either boded, or fried in crumbs, being first dipped in egg. Crimp Skate.—Boil and send up in a napkin; or fry as above. Maids should likewise be hung one day at least. They may be boiled or fried ; or, if of a tolerable size, the middle may be boiled and the fins fried. They should be dipped in egg, and covered witli crumbs. Boiled Cai^.—.Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which you will find directed for it unrler the article Stewed Carp. Stewed Carp.—Scald and clean, take care of the roc, &c., lay the fi.sh in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a dc.s.sert spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a fourth part of the quantity of gravy or port (cyder may do); sim- mer close covered : when nearly done achl two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert spoonful of made mustard, ami some fine walnut ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour : shake it, and let tlie gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sinpets of fried bread, tlie roe fried, arifl a g^Kid deal of horse-radish and lemon. Baked Carp.—Clean a large carp ; jmt a stufllng as for soles dressed in the Portuguese way. Sew it up ; bru.sh it all over with volk of ecg, ami put plenty of crurnb.s ; then dro|) oihal Imttcr to baste them ; place the carp in a flecj> earthen di.sh, a niut of stock (or, if fast-day, fish-stock), a few sli(;ed onions, some liay-lcavcs, a faggot of herbs (such as basil, lliyme, parsley, and both sorts of