174 TEA CAKES—BENTON CAKES—MACAROONS—WAFEES. fine sugar, and that of sk in flour; beat the yolks with the flour and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. Another, without Butter.—Dry one pound of flour, and one and a quarter of sugar; then beat seven eggs, yolks and whites apart; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonfid of brandy, beat the whole together with your hand for an hour. Bake in a buttered pan in a quick oven. Sweetmeats may be added if approved. Tea Cakes.—Rub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour; mix eight ounces of curi’ants and six of fine Lisbon sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs, and a spoonful of brandy. Roll the paste the thickness of an Oliver biscuit, and cut with a wine glass. You may beat the other white and wash over them, and either dust sugar or not, as you like. Benton Tea Cakes.—Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of butter and milk ; roll as thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over the fire, or on a hot hearth. Another sort, as Biscuits.—Rub into a pound of flour six ounces of butter, and add three large spoonfuls of yeast and make into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of new milk; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. Another sort.—Melt six or seven ounces of butter with a suf- ficiency of new milk warmed to make seven pounds of flour into a stiff paste ; roll thin, and make into biscuits. A Biscxiit Cake.—One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strained, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower water ; beat the whole thorouglily and bake one hour. Macaroons.—Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with four spoonfuls of orange-flower water; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it and a pound of sugar sifted, with the almonds, to a paste; and laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, the shape of macaroons. Wafers.—Dry the flour well which you intend to use, mix a little pounded sugar and finely-pounded mace with it; then make it into a thick batter with cream ; butter the wafer irons, let them be hot: put a tea-spoonful of the batter into them, so bake them carefully, and roll them off the iron with a stick. Crack Nuts.—Mix eight ounces of flour and eight ounces of sugar ; melt fom- ounces of butter in two spoonfuls of raisin wine ; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste ; add caraways, roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. Cracknels.—Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose-water, into a stiff paste, with cold water; then roll in a pound of butter, and make them into cracknel shapes ; put them into a kettle of boiling water and boil them till they swim, then take out and put them into cold water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates.