POEK PIE—MUTTON' PIE—SQUAB PIE. 105 pepper and salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little ■n ater and a little gravy into the dish, and cover it with a tolerable thick crust; bake it in a slow oven, and when done, pour into it as much gravy as it can possibly hold, and do not cut it till per- fectly cold; in doing which, observe to use a very sharp knife, and first cut out a large bit, going down to the bottom of the dish; and when done thus, thinner shces can be cut: the dif- ferent colours, and the clear jelly, have a beautiful marbled appearance. A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with high season- ing, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, morels, &c., has a very good ap- pearance. The cold pie will keep many days. Shces make a pretty side- dish. Instead of isinglass, use a calf’s foot, or a cow-heel, if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. The pickled tongues of former calves’ heads may be put in to vary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. Excellent Pork Pies, to eat Cold.—Eaise common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, as you choose: have ready the trimming and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed; and if these are not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone. Beat it well with a roUing-pin ; season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate. Put in layers quite close up to the top : lay on the lid ; cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it; bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Directions for raising the crust will be given hereafter. The pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain crust, and be quite as good. Observe to put no bone or water into pork pie; the out- side of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed close. Mutton Pie.—Cut steaks from a loin or neck of mutton that has hung ; beat them, and remove some of the fat. Season with salt, pepper, and a little onion; put a little water at the bottom of the dish, and a little paste at the edge ; then cover with a mode- rately thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each bone in two to shorten it, season, and cover it over, pinching the edge. When they come out, pour into each a spoonful of gravy made of a bit of mutton. Squab Pie.—Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows with mutton chops: shred onion, and sprinkle it among them, and al.so some sucar. Lamb Pie.—Make it of the loin, nock, or breast; the breast of hou.se lamb is one of the most delicate tilings that can be eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned with pepper and salt; the bone taken out, but not the gristles; and a small quantity of jelly gravy be put in hot; but the pie should not be cut till cold. Put two spoonfuls of water before baking. Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may cither be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Season with only