PRESERVE BUTTER IX 'WIXTER. 191 winter. Deposit the eream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot churn daily, change it into fresh scalded pots ; but never omit turniug twice a week. If possil>le, put the churn in a thorough air; and if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. AYhen the butter is come, pour ofi’ the buttermilk, and put the butter into a fresh-scalded pan, or tubs, which have after- wards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness before you work it; then change the water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of the buttermUk remain, and that the water, which must be often clianged, shall be quite clear in colour. Then work some salt into il, weigh, and make it into forms ; throw them into cold water in an earthen pan and cover of the queen’s rvare. You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires more working in hot than in cold weather; but neither should be left with the least particle of buttermilk, or a sour taste, as is some- times done. To Preserve Butter.—Take two parts of the best common salt, one part good loaf-sugar, and one part saltpetre ; beat them well together. To sixteen ounces of butter thorouglilj'^ cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of this composition; work it well, and pot down, when it has become firm and cold. The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, and should not be usedtmder a month. This article should be kept from the air, and is best in pots of the best glazed earth, that will hold from ten to fourteen pounds each. To Preserve Butter for Winter, the best Way.—When the butter has been prepared as above directed, take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten and blended well together. Of this composition put one ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool; for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On the top put some salt; and when that is turned to brine, if not enough to cover the butter entirely, add some strong salt and water. It re- quires only then to be covered from the dust. To Manage Cream for Whey Butter.—Set the whey one day and night, skim it, and so till you have enough ; then boil it and pour it into a pan or two of cold water. As tlie cream rises, skim it till no more comes ; then churn it. AVlicre new milk cheese is made daily, whey-butter for common and present use may be made to advantage. To Scald Cream, as in the West of England.—In winter let the milk stand twenty-four hours. In the summer twelve at least; then put the milk-pan on a liot hearth, if you have one; if not, set it in a clean brass kettle of water, largo enough to receive the pan. It must remain on the fire till (luilc hot, but on no account boil, or there will be a skin instead of cream upon tlio milk, i ou will know w hen flone enough, by the undulations on