ENGLISa BAMBOO—MELOX MANGOES. 136 radlslies; cut celery in three-inch lengths; ditto young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, which wdll look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices, or quarters if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter, over which you must pour boiling vinegar’, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt must be used. Put the spice, garlic, a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and one ounce of turmeric, to be ready against the vegetables shall be dried. When they are ready, observe the following directions:—Put some of them into a two-quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boiling vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables, and when drained, put them into a large stock jar, and boiling the vinegar pour it over some more of the vegetables; let them lie a night, and do as before. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing; then, to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of flour of mus- tard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, but set to be cool before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year, but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower one scald in water after salting and drying as above, but without the preparative vinegar; then pour the vinegar that has the spice and garlic, boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled properly, boiling the pickle and pour- ing it over them hot, will plump them. English Bamboo.— Cut the large young shoots of elder, W'hich put out in the middle of May (the middle stalks are most tender); peel OS’ the outward peel or skin, and lay them in salt and water, very strong, one night. Dry them piece by piece in a cloth. Have in readiness a pickle thus made and boiled: to a quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced ginger, a little mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder shoots in a stone jar; stop close, and set by the fire two hours, turning the jar often to keep it scalding hot. If not green when cold, strain ofi" the liquor, and pour it boiling hot again; keep it hot as before. Or, if you intend to make Indian pickle, the above shoots are a great improvement to it, in which case you need only pour boiling vinegar and mustard seed on them, and keep them till your jar of pickles shall be ready to receive them. The cluster of elder-flowers before it opens, makes a delicious pickle to eat with boiled mutton. It is only done by pouring boiling vinegar over. 1 . Melon Mangoes.—There is a particular sort for this purpose which the gardeners all know. Cut a small square piece from one side, and tb.’ough that take out the seeds, and mix with them mus- tard-seeds and shred garlic ; stulF the melon as full as the space will allow, and replace the square small piece. Bind it up uuth a new pack-tlii’ead. Boil a good quantity of vinegar, to allow for