GENERAL DIKECTIOXS RESPECTING GRAVIES. 91 water as will cover them; skim them clean, and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three cloves. Boil to a mash. Pick fifty crawfish, or a hundred prawns ; poxmd the shells, and a little roll; but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs : put this liquor over the shells in a sieve; then pour the other soup, clear from the sediment. Chop a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef gravy : add also the tails of the crawfish or the prawns, and some flour and butter: and season as may be liked, if not high enough. Oyster Soup.—Take two quarts of fish stock, as directed in page 90; beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, and the hard part of two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it aU for half an hour; then strain it off, and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five minutes: have ready the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil. Serve altogether. Oyster Mouth Soup.—Make a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, three blades of mace, and some black pepper. When strained, pour it on a hundred and fifty 03'sters, without the beards, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently a quarter of an hour, and serve. GRAVIES.—General Directions respecting Gravies, —Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, and the kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in the same way. An ox kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, and prepared as other meat; and so will the shank end of mutton that has been dressed, if much be not wanted. The shank bones of mutton are a great improvement to the richness of gravj' ; but first soak them well, and scour them clean. Tarragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and in high gravies is a great improvement; but it should be added only a short time before serving. To Dress Gravy that will keep a week.—Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does not burn ; let it stay till all the gravv that comes out of the meat is dried up into it again : put as much water as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham ; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Do not take off the fat till going to be used. Clear Gravy.—.Slice beef thin; broil a part of it over avery clear quick fire, ju.st enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress it: put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-i)an, with two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, berries ot allspice, and a hunch of sweet herbs ; cover it witli hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three times ; then cover it, and sim- mer till quite .strong.