DIRECTIONS FOE CARTING. 17 those who help must take care to proportion it, as likewise the gravy, according to the number of the company. Haunch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, cut so as to resemble hatinch of venison, and is to be helped at table in the same manner. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut long thin slices from the tail to the end, beginning close to the backbone. If a large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from the sides. Ham may be cut three ways; the common method is, to begin in the middle, by long slices from a to h, from the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the prime at tirst; which is likewise accom- plished by cutting a small round hole on the top of the ham, as at c, and with a sharp knife enlarging that by cut- ting successive thin circles; this preserves the gravy and keeps the meat moist. The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock end, and proceed onwards. Ham that is used for pies, &c. should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. Sucking Pig.—The cook usually divides the body before it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the jaws and ears. The first thing is, to separate a shoulder from the carcase on one side, and then the leg accord- ing to the direction given by the dotted line «, h, c. The ribs aro then to be divided into about two helpings ; and an ear or jaw presented with them, and plenty of sauce. The joints may either be divided into two each, or pieces may be cut from them. I'he ribs are reckoned the finest part; but some people prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Gooso.—Cut off the ayjron in the circular line a, h, c ; and pour into the bo^ly a glass of port wine; and a largo tea-spoonful of mustard, firH mi.Tcd at the side- board. Turn the nf'Ck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another ; but only re- move them as you fudp each p<'rson, iinlf'ss the company is so large as to require the legs lik''wiso. 'fliis way gives more prime bits than by making wings. 'I'ako off the leg, by put-