206 A ■BAKKt) sorri:’. put it into the pot "n’lierc salt beef is boiling and near read}^: it ■\Till attract some of the fat, and when swelled out, will be no un- palatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. A Baked Soup.—Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices ; two onions, two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of rice, a pint of split peas, or whole ones, if previously soaked, pepper and salt, into an earthen jug or pan, and pour one gallon of water. Cover it very close, and bake it with the bread. The cook should be charged to save the boiling of every piece of meat, ham, tongue, &c., however salt: as it is easy to use only a part of that, and the rest of fresh water, and by the addition of more vegetables, the bones of the meat used in the family, the pjeces of meat tliat come from table on the plates, and rice, .Scotch barle5^, or oatmeal, there will be some gallons of nutritious soup two or three times a week. The bits of meat should be only warmed in the soup, and remain whole ; the bones, &c., boiled till they yield their nourishment. If the things are ready to put in the boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and second cooking. Take turnips, carrots, locks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand ; cut them small, and throw in with the thick part of peas, after they have been pulped for soup, and grits, or coarse oatmeal, which have been used for gruel. Should the soup be poor of moat, the long boiling of the bones, and difFei’eut vegetables, will afford better nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain ; especially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they bu3^ But in every family there is some superlluity; and if it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. I found, in the time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons of soup could be dealt out weekly, at an expense not worth mentioning, though the vegetables vrere bought. If in the villages about London, abounding with opulent families, the quantity of ten gal- lons were made in ten gentlemen’s houses, there would be a hundred gallons of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the supply of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and a half each. What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of bread and cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal! To the sick, aged, and infant branches, how important an advantage! nor less to the in- dustrious mother whose forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that others may have a larger share, frequently reduces that strength upon which the welfare of her family essentially depends. It very rarely happens that servants object to seconding the kindness of their superiors to the poor; but should the cook in any famil.y think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gra- tuity at the end of the winter might repay her. if the love of her fellow-creatures failed of doing it a hundredfold. Did she readily