EEL PIE—COD PIE—LOBSTER PIE. 103 described in pji^e 93. Forcemeat may be put both under and over the meat, if preferred to balls. Eel Pie.—Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season with pepper, and salt, and place in a dish, with some bits of but- ter, and a little water; and cover it with paste. Cod Pie.—Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it well one night: next day wash it; season with pepper, salt, and a very httle nutmeg, mixed; place in a dish, and put some butter on it, and a little good broth of any kind into the dish. Cover it with a crust; and when done, add a sauce of a spoon- ful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one bod. Oysters may be added. Mackerel will do well, but do not salt them till used. Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of oysters. Sole Pie.—Split some soles from the bones, and cut the fins close; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middling-sized ones will do, and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes home, pour in a cupful of thick cream. Slirimp Pie, excellent.—Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two Mince two or three anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then r season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and cover the shrimps with a glass of sharp white wine. The 1 paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. Lobster Pie.—Bod two lobsters, or three small, take out the •tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces, iand lay in a small dish, then put in the meat of the claws and that fmn have picked out of the body ; pick off the furry parts from the after, and take out the lady ; the spawn, beat in a mortar ; like- •wise all the shells : set them on to stew with some water, two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some pounded mace: la large piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the .goodness of the shells is obtained ; give a boil or two, and pour into the dish strained ; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over :all; bake .slowly, but only till the paste be done. A remarkably fine Fish Pie.—Boil two pounds of small eels; having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw the bones into the liquor, with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a •slice of onion ; boil till quite rich, and strain it. Alake forcemeat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon peel, salt, pepper, and CTiimb.s, and four ounces of butler warmed, and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper; pour tlie Kravv over and bake. Observe to take off tlie skin and liris, if cod or soles. Pilchard and Look Pio.—Clean and skin tlic white part of ■some large leeks ; scald inmdk and water, and put them in layers