90 EEL SOLE—SKATE SOLE—LOBSTER SOLE. and some parsley. Shake the pan well for ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, three or four blades of mace, and if you have any white beet leaves, add a large handful of them cut small. Boil gently an hour. J ust before serving, beat in two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. Another.—Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four onions sliced, the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, and a parsnip •, then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve, then boil in it the best of the celery cut thin. Stock for Brown or White Pish Soups.—Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into pieces: cover them with water ; and season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley-roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour and a half closely covered, and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. Eel Soup.—Take three pounds of small eels; put to them two quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover them close, aud stew till the fish is quite broken; then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot maybe put in at first. This soup will be as rich as if made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improve- ment. Skate Soup.—Make it of the stock for fish soup (as di- rected above); with an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it, a little before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but not on, the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and then soaked in the soup an liour. Excellent Lobster Soup.—Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails, of six small lobsters : take away the brown fur, and the bag in the head : beat the fins, chine, and small claws, in a mortar. Boil it very gently in two quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, two anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give them a bod up with the cream and soup. Serve with forcemeat-bads made of the remainder of the lob- ster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a bit of floim, and heated in the soup. Crawfish or Prawn Soup.—Boil six whitings, and a large cel (or the eel and half a thoruback, well cleaned), with as much