202 COFFEE MILK—CICOCOLAXE—PATENT COCOA—SALOOP. If for foreigners, or those who like it extremely strong, make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh roasted, lay it before a fire until perfectly hot and dry; or you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a preserving pan of a small size, and when hot, throw the coffee in it and toss it about until it be freshened, letting it be cold before ground. Coffee Milk. — Boil a dessert-spoonful of gi’ound coffee in nearly a pint of milk a quarter of an hour; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass and clear it; let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. This is a very fine breakfast; it should be sweetened with real Lisbon sugar of a good quality. Chocolate.—Those who use much of this article will find the following mode of preparing it both useful and economical. Cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits; put a pint of water into the pot, and when it boils put in the above; mill it off the fire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire till it boils; pour ic into a basin, and it will keep in a cool i)lace eight or ten days, or more. Wlien wanted, put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar, and mill it well. This, if not made thick, is a very good breakfast or supper. Patent Cocoa is a light w holesome breakfast. Saloop.—Boil a little water, wine, lemon peel, and sugar to- gether ; then mix with a small quantity of the powder, previously rubbed smooth, with a little cold water; stir it altogether, and boil it a few' minutes. Milk Porridge.—Make a fine gruel of half-grits, long boiled, strain off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be ap- proved. Serve with toast. French Milk Porridge.—Stir some oatmeal and water to- gether, let it stand to be clear, and pour off the latter ; pour fresh upon it, stir it w'ell, let it stand till next day; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the w'ater, adding milk while doing. The proportion of w'ater must be small. This is much ordered, with toast, for the breakfast of weak persons, abroad. Ground-rice Milk.—Boil one spoonful of ground-rice rubbed down smooth, with three half pints of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemon peel, and nutmeg. Sw'eeten w'hen nearly done. Sago.—To prevent the earthy taste soak it in cold water an hour; pour that off, and w ash it well; then add more, and sinimer gently till the berries are clear, with lemon peel and spice, if ap- proved. Add wine and sugar, and boil aU up together. Sago Milk.—Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly and wholly with new milk. It swells so much that a small quantity will be sufficient fora quart, and w'hen done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavouring. Asses’ Milk far surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. It should be milked into a glass that is kept warm by being in a basin of hot water. The fixed ah' that it contains gives some people a pain m the