96 TOMATA SAtrCE—CUEEANT SAUCE FOE VENISOS-. Sauce for Pish Pies where Cream is not ordered.— Take equal quantities of white wine not sweet, vinegar, oyster liquor and mushroom ketchup: boil them up with an an- chovy ; strain, and pour it through a funnel into the pie after it is baked. Another.—Chop an anchovy small, and boil it up with three spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pint of cream, and a bit of butter and flour. Tomata Sauce for Hot or Cold Meats.—Put tomatas, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar, and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they are quite soft; then separate the skins from the pulp, and mix this with capsicum vinegar and a few cloves of garlic pounded, which must both be proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add powdered ginger and salt to your taste. Some white-wine vinegar and Cayenne may be used in- stead of capsicum vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide- mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dry cool place. Apple Sauce for Goose and Roast Pork.—Pare, core, and slice some apples ; and put them in a stone jar, into a sauce- pan of water, or on a hot hearth. If on a hearth, let a spoonful or two of water be put in to hinder them from burning. When they are done, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, and a httle brown sugar. Serve it in a sauce tureen. The Old Currant Sauce for Venison.—Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of water a few minutes; then add a small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth. Lemon Sauce.—Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them in melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Carrier Sauce for Mutton.—Chop six shalots fine; and boil them up with a gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and salt. Serve in a boat. Ham Sauce.—When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat clean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part; bejit the meat and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin: put it in a saucepan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of beef gravy; cover it up and let it stew over a gentle fire. AVhen it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain off the gravy. A httle of this is an improvement to all gravies. A very Fine Pish Sauce.—Put into a very nice tin sauce- pan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut ketchup, twelve anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some Cayenne to taste, three ounces of scraped horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonfuls of made mustard i boil it all gently, till the rawness goes off; then put