CUSTARD rt'DDIXG—M/ CCARONI PUDDING. 115 cap-paper to preserve it from dust, being fii’st cold. When to be used it must boil a full hour. Common Plum Pudding.—The same proportions of flour and suet, and half the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine or not, and one egg and milk, will make an excellent pudding if long boiled. Custard Pudding.—Wix by degrees a pint of good milk with a large spoonful of flour, yolks of flve eggs, some orange-flower water, and a little pounded cinnamon. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured cloth over. Put in boding water over the Are, and turn it about a few minutes to prevent the egg going to one side. Half an hour wiU boil it. Put currant jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. Maccaroni Pudding.—Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe sort in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon and cinnamon till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs, but only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water, and half a glass of raisin-wine. Bake with a paste round the edge. A laj'er of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam, in a maccaroni pudding, for change, is a great improvement; in which case omit the almond-water, or ratafla, which you would otherwise flavour it with. Millet Pudding.—Wash three spoonfuls of the seed; put it into the dish with a crust round the edges ; pour over it as mucli new milk as will nearly All the dish, two ounces of butter warmed with it, sugar, shred lemon, and a little scrape of ginger and nut- jneg. As you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs beaten, and a spoonful of .shred suet. Carrot Pudding.—Boil a large carrot tender; then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit-powder, or three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolks and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scalded, a little ratafia, a large spoonful of orange or rosewater, a quarter of a nutmetr, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste, and turn it out to serve, with a little sugar dusted over. An excellent Apricot Pudding. — Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they are soft; meantime pour on the cfrated crumbs of a penny loaf, a pint of boiling cream ; when half cold, four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and a gla.s3 of white wine. Bound the apricots in a mortar witli some or all of the kernels; then mix the fruit and other ingredients together; put a paste round a dish, and bake the ])udding half an hour. Baked Gooseber^ Pudding. Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth, or in a saucepan ofuater till they will ))iilp. Take a pint of the juice nressed throimh a coarse sieve, the yolk.s and whites of three eggs beaten and strained, and om* ounce and a half of butter ; sweeten it well, and put a crust ri»nnd the dish. A few cnimbs of rolls shoidd be mixed with the aliove to give a little consistence, or four ounces of A'aples luscuits.