144 LEMOJS’ CEEAM—AEMOK’D C'EEAM—COPEEE CEEAII. yolks of tiiree eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoon- ful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time. Another way.—Mix half a quarter of a pint of ratafia, the same quantity of mountain wine, tlie juice of two or three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasantly flavoured. Beat it with a whisk, and put it into glasses. This cream will keep eight or ten days. Lemon Cream.—Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs well beaten, four ounces of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon; boil it up, then stir it till almost cold ; put the juice of a lemon in a dish or bowl and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. Yellow Lemon Cream without Cream.—Pare four lemons very thin into twelve large spoonfuls of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely-pounded sugar: beat the yolks of nine eggs well; add the peels and juice beaten together for some time ; then strain it through a flannel into a silver or very nice block-tin saucepan ; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way till pretty thick and scalding hot, but not boiling or it wull curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour. White Lemon Cream is made the same as the,above, only put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it ex- tremely well to froth. Imperial Cream.—Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, then stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained with as much sugar as wiU sweeten the cream, which pour into the dish from a large teapot, holding it high and moving it about to mix with the iuice. It should be made at least si.x hours before it be served, ana will be still better if a day, Almond Cream.—Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, in a mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water to prevent oiling, both having been blanched. Put the paste to a quart of cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened ; beat it up with a whisk to a froth, which take olF on the shallow part of a sieve; fiU glasses with some of the liquor and the froth. Snow Cream.—Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and a bit of lemon peel; whip it to a froth, remove the peel, and serve in a dish. Coffee Cream, much admired.—Boil a calf’s foot in water till it w astes to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of very strong coffee ; clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly bright; pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into the dish.