183 ELDKE WINE—CLAKY WINE—EAISIN WINE. five gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let the caslc be closely stopped, and stand only six weeks before you bottle off. Observe to use the best corks. Elder Wine.—To every quart of berries put two quarts of water, boil half an hour, run the liquor, and break tlie fruit tlirough a hair sieve ; then to every quaxtof juice, put three quar- ters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse, but not the very coarsest. Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some Jamaica peppers, ginger, and a Ibw cloves. Pour it into a tub, and when of a proper warmth, into the barrel, with toast and yeast to work, which there is more difficult}' to make it do than most other liquors. When it ceases to hiss, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and stop up. Bottle in the spring or at Christmas. The liquor must be iu a warm place to make it work. White Elder Wine, very much like Prontinae.—Boil eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with six gallons of water, and two whites of eggs well beaten ; then skim it, and put in a quarter of a peck of elder-flowers from the tree that bears white berries; do not keep them on the fire. When near cold, stir it, and put in six spoonfuls of lemon-juice, four or five of yeast, and beat well into the liquor ; stir it every day; put six pounds of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close, and bottle in sis months. When well kept this wine will pass for Frontinac. Clary Wine. — Boil fifteen gallons of water with forty-five pounds of sugar, skim it; when cold put a little to a quarter of a pint of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on clar}'- fiowers, picked in the dry : the quantity for the above is twelve quarts. Those who gather from their own garden may not have sufficient to put in at once, and may add as they can get them, keeping account of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Hack it off, empty the barrel of the dregs, and, adding a gallon of the best brandy, stop it up, and let it stand six or eight weeks, then bottle it. Excellent Raisin Wine.—To every gallon of spring water put eight pounds of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub; stir it tho- roughly every day for a month; then press the raisins in a horse- hair bag as dr}' as possible ; put the liquor into a cask, and, when it ha.-< done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy ; stop it close for twelve months, then rack it off, but without the dregs ; filter them through a bag of flannel of three or four folds ; add the clear to the quantity, and pour one or two quarts of brandy, ac- cording to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and, at the end of three .vears, you may either bottle it, or drink it fresh from the ca,slf. Raisin wine would be extremely good, if made rich of (he fruit and kept long, which improves the flavour grcatlv. Raisin Wino with Cyder.—But two hundredweight of Malaga raisins into a cMk, and pour upofi them a hogshead of good sound cyder that is not rough : stir it wi 11 two or three days ; aUip it,and let it stand six months; then rack it intoa cask