42 FEICANDEAU OK ISHEF—STEWED BtJIP. Put the gravy into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, then X5ut them together, and add a glass of j)ort wine. Take off the tape, and serve with the vegetables; or you maj^ strain them ofl, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted, and then stewed with the gravy, are a great imiirovement. A tea-cupful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef. A jPEicandeau of Beef.—Take a nice piece of lean beef, lard it with bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, macc, and allspice. Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white-wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlick, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close ; skim the sauce well, and strain it: set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel- sauce. To Stew a Rump of Beef.—Wash it well and season high wuth salt, allspice, pepper, Cayenne, three cloves, and a blade of mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef- broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as possible for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat; add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a lai'ge spoonful of ketchup ; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, penny- royal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them; but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the several sorts; let there be a good handful all together. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate; chopped parsley, chives, beetroot, &c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a i)art to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to increase the richness, add a few beef-bones and slianks of mutton in stewing. A spoonful or two of made mustard is a great improvement to the grav}^ Rump roasted is excellent, but in the country it is generally sold whole with the aitchbone, or cut across instead of lengthwise, as in London, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. Stewed Rump another way.—Half-roast it; then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small beer, one of port wine, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ketchup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, parslej^ thyme, basil, pennyroyal, savoury, marjoram, knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, and Cayenne; cover it close, and simmer till quite tender; two or three hours will do it. When done, lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravj^; put in a