200 CniCKEN PAKADA—A GEEAT EESTOEATIVE. Anottier.—Make as above, but instead of a glass of vrine, put in a tea-spoonful of ruin, and a bit of butter; sugar as above. This is a most pleasant mess. 'Another.—Put to the vater a bit of lemon peel, mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, put some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients ; for if any be added after, the panada will break, and notjelly. Chicken Panada.—Boil it till about three parts ready, in a quart of water, take otF the skin, cut the white meat off when cold, and put into a marble-mortar; pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in, season Muth a little salt, a grate of nut- meg, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few minutes to the consistency you like; it should be such as you can drink, though tolerably thick. This conveys great nourishment in small eompass. Sippets, when the Stomach will not receive Meat.— On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets of bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, if there is no butter in the dish. Sprinkle a little salt over. Eggs.—Au egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting than tea solely. An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten separately, then mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small quantity, convey much nourishment: the yolk only, when dressed, should be eaten by invalids. A great Restorative.—Bake two calves’ feet in two pints of water, and the same quantity of new milk, in ajar closely covered, three hours and a half. When cold remove the fat. Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thing. Whatever flavour is approved, give it by baking in it lemon-peel, cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. Another.—Simmer six sheep’s trotters, two blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water to one; when cold, take off the fat, and give near half a pint twice a-day, unarming with it a little new milk. Another.—Boil au ounce of isinglass-shavings, forty Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread in a quart of water to a I)int, and strain it. This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house ; of which a largo spoonful may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, or any way. Another, a most pleasant Draught.—Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass-shavings with a pint of new milk, to halt: add a bit of sugar, and. for change, a bitter almond. Give this at bed-time, not too warm. Dutch flummery, blancmange, and jellies, as directed in pages I'll, 142, and 147, or less rich according to judgment.