ON DBESSING MEAT. 37 meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. The boiler, &c., should be kept debcately clean. Put the meat into cold water, but flour it well first. Meat boiled quick will be hard; but care must be taken that in boding slow it does not stop, or the meat will be underdone. If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much; there- fore, when you wish it to bod away take ofi" the cover of the soup-pot. egetables should not be dressed with the meat, except carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. As to the length of time required for roasting and boiling, the size of the joint must direct; as also the strength of the Are, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the regular though slow progress it makes; for if the cook, when told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, let it stop from boding up at all, the usual time will not be sufiicient, and the meat wdl be imder- done. M'eigh the meat; and allow for all solid joints a quarter of an hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten to twenty) over, according as the family hke it done. A ham of twenty pounds wdl take four hours and a half, and others in proportion, A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boding, after soak- ing ; a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and a half to three hours, or more if very large; it must be judged by feeling whether it is very tender. A leg of pork, or of lamb, takes the allowance of twenty minutes, above a quarter of an hour to a pound. In roasting, beef of ten pounds wdl take above two hours and a half; twenty pounds wdl take about three hours and three quarters. A neck of mutton wdl take an hour and a half, if kept at a pr^er distance. A chine of pork two hours. Ine meat should be put at a good distance from the fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part becomes hot, which will prevent its being scorched while yet raw. Meat should be much basted ; and, when nearly done, floured to make it look frothed. Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to aUow for basting, good dripping an.swers as well as butter. The cook should be careful not to run the spit through the best parts; and should observe that it be well cleaned before and at the time of serving, or a black stain appears on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for some distance, so as not to injure the prime of the meat; and the cook should have leaden skewers to balance it with ; for want of which, ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of serving. In roasting meat it is a very good way to kittle salt and