168 TO PEESERVE ORANGES OR LEMONS IN JELLT. kins, and roll with a rolliug-i^in till they are bruised ; then have ready boiled one pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, give them a simmer until the syx'up adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. To Preserve Oranges or Lemons in Jelly.—Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rind. Tie each separately in muslin, and lay them in spring water two days, changing twice a day; on the last boil them tender on a slow fire. Observe that there is enough at first to allow for wast- ing, as they must be covered to the last. To every pound of fruit -weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar and one pint of water; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a s,yrup, and clarify it; skim well, and let it stand to be cold; then bofl fruit in the syrup half an hour; if not clear do this daily till the}'' are so. Pare and core some green pippins and boil in water till it tastes strong of them; do not break them, only gently press them with the back of a spoon; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quite clear; then to every pint put a pound of double-refiued sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and turning each orange with the hole upwai'ds in ajar, pour the apple jelly over it. Tlie bits cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy paper. To Keep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, &c.— When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in water, without the pulp; let them I’emain in the same a fortnight, adding no more: boil them therein till tender, strain it from them, and when they arc tolerably dry, throw them into any jar of candy you in ay have remaining, from old sweetmeats ; or if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water and put over them : in a week or ten days, boil them gently in it till they look clear ; and that they may be covered ivith it in the jar, you may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occup}' but small space. To Preserve Strawberries Whole.—Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refined sugar ; la}' the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in fine powder over; give a gentle shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the under side of the fruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of the sugar, and, instead of -w'ater, allow one pound of red currant juice to every pint of stra-svberrics; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or others, -when not dead ripe. In either of the above ways they eat -w ell served in thin cream, in glasses. To Preserve Strawberries in Wine.—Put a quantity ot the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in three large spoons of fine sugar; fill up with Madeira wine, or fine sherry. To Dry Cherries with Sugar.— Stone six pounds oi