110 APPLE PUDDING—DUTCH DICE PUDDING. A very fine Amber Pudding.—Put a pound of butter into a saucepan, -vvitb three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar finely powdered; melt the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of fifteen eggs M-ell beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out; and when well filled wdth the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. Baked Apple Pudding.—Pare and quarter four large apples, boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none may remain; beat them quite fine in a mortar, and add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of live and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste; beat all together, and lay it in a dish with paste to turn out. Oatmeal Pudding.—Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the best fine oatmeal; let it soak all night; next day beat two eggs, and mix a little salt; butter a basin that will just hold it: cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oatcake buttered. Dutch Pudding, or Souster.—Melt one pound of butter in half a pint of milk ; mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, four spoonfuls of yeast, add one pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound of sugar beaten and sifted. This is a very good pudding hot, and equally so as a cake when cold. If for the latter, caraways may be used instead of currants. An hour will bake it in a quick oven. A Dutch Rice Pudding.—Soak four ounces of rice in warm water half an hour ; drain the latter from it, and throw it into a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and simmer till tender. When cold, add four whole eggs well beaten, two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cupful of fresh cream, and put three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a good piece of lemon peel. Put a light puff paste into a mould or dish, or grated tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. Light or German Puddings or Puffs.—Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream ; let it stand till nearly cold ; then mix two ounces of fine flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and two whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower water. Bake in little cups, buttered, half an hour. They should be served the moment they are done, and only when going to be eaten, or they will not be light. Turn out of the cups, and serve with white wine and sugar. Little Bread Puddings.—Steep the crumb of a penny loaf grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat six eggs, w hites and yolks, and mix with the bread and two ounces of butter warmed, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-cupful of cream. Beat all well, and bake in tea-