TO PETSKHVE CHEESE SOtJXD—TO MAKE CEEAM CHEESE. 189 • the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is ■ therefore less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by '.the skimmer ; press the curd close with your hands, and add :more as it sinks ; and it must be finally left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom ; and when full, drawn smooth over on aU sides. There are two modes of salting cheese ; one by mixing it in the curd while in the tub, after the whey is out; and the other by •.putting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first •method appears best on some accounts, but not on all, and there- fore the custom of the country must direct. Put a board ^ under :and over the vat, and place it in the press ; in two hours turn it •out and put a fresh cheese-cloth; press it again for eight or nine diours ; then salt it aU over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it ;stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours, observing to put the cheeses last made undermost. Before putting them the last time into the vat pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat •should have holes at the sides and at bottom, to let all the whey :pass through. Put on clean boards, and change and scald •them. To Preserve Cheese Sound.—Wash in warm whey, when Ton have any, and wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack, ilf you want to ripen it quick, a damp cellar wfil bring it forward. WThen a whole cheese is fresh cut, the larger quantity should be 5>read with butter inside, and the outside wiped to preserve it. o keep those in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out rfrom cold water, and wrapt round them when carried from table. -Dry cheese may be used to advantage to grate for serving with macaroni or eating without. These observations are made with ii -view to make the above articles less expensive, as in most fami- 1 ies where much is used there is waste. To Make Sage Cheese.—Bruise the tops of 3'oung red sage m a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; •mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you ike for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, And put it in with the skimmer, tiU it is pressed two inches iibove one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn ivery day. Cream Cheese.—Put five quarts of strippings, that is. the ast of the milk, into a pan with two spoonfuls of rennet. When he cord is come, strike it down two or three times with the skim- ning di.sii just to break it. Let it stand two hours, then spread a heese-cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whej’ drain ; ireak the curd a little with 3'our hand, arul put it into a vat with I two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it -ut and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry, from ono ooard to another; cover them with nettles, or clean dock-leaves,