DOMESTIC COOKEKY. PISH. To Choose Fish. TURBOT, if good, should be thick, and the beUy of a yellow- ish white ; if of a bluish cast or thin, they are bad. They are in season the greatest part of the summer. Salmon.—If new, the flesh is of a flne red (the gills particu- larly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. \Vhen just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price; that caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and even preferred by some. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. Cod.—The gills should be very red: the fish should be ver}^ thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the eyes fresh. AMien flabby they are not good. They are in season from the beginning oi December till the end of April. Skate.—If good they are very white and thick. If too fresh they eat tough, but mu.st not be kept above two days. Herrings,—If good, their gills are of a fine red and the eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, v hich must be stiff and firm. Soles.—If good they are thick, and the belly is of a cream colour; if this is of a bluish cast and flabb^^ they arc not frcsli. They arc in the market almost the whole year, but arc in the highest perfection about midsummer. Whitings.—The firmness of tlie body and fins is to be looked to, a.s in herrings; they are in high season during the first three months of the year, but they may be harl a great part of it. Mackerel,—Choose as whitings. Their season is iUay, .lime, and -July. They are so tender a flsli that thc3' carry and keej) worse than any other. Pike.—For freshness observe the above marks. The bc.sl are taken in rivers : they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted to stuffing and .sauce. Carp live some time out of water, anil may Ihercfore g(,‘|. wa.sted ; it is best to kill them as soon as eauglit, to pi'e- vent this. I he same signs of frcslmess attend llicm as oilier fish. Tench.— I hey are a fine-flavoured fresh-w ater fish, and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught. When they arc to be bought, exarnino whether the gills are red and hard (o open, (lie