KHUBARB TART—ORANGE TART—OYSTER PATTIES. 123 : altogether. Pour a good custard over it when cold, and sift sugar over. Or, line the bottom of a shallow dish with paste, lay the apples : in it. sweeten, and lay little twists of paste over in bars. Rhubarb Tart.—Cut the stalks in lengths of four or five ; inches, and take ofl' the thin skin. If you have a hot hearth, lay ■ them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water, cover ' with another dish, and let it simmer very slowly an hour ; or do ; them in a block-tin saucepan. When cold, make into a tart, as codlin. When tender, the i baking the crust will be sufficient. Raspberry Tart with Cream.—Poll out some thin puff ; paste, and lay it in a patty-pan of what size you choose ; put in : raspberries; strew over them fine sugar; cover with a thin lid, and : then bake. Cut it open, and have ready the following mLvture warm: half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a httle sugar; and when this is added to the tart, re- :turn it to the oven for five or six minutes. Orange Tart.—Line a tart-pan with thin puff paste; put into it orange marmalade that is made with apple jelly; lay bars of paste, or a cz’oquant cover over, and bake in a moderate oven. Fried Patties.—Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters, mixed with a few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a ■ verv small bit of lemon peel—add the liquor of the oysters ; warm :all in a tosser, but do not boil; let it cool; have ready a good puff paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or square bits ; put some of the above between two of them, twist the edges to keep in the -gravy, and fry them of a fine brown. • Til is is a very good thing; and baked, is a fashionable dish. Wash all patties over with egg before baking. Oyster Patties.—Put a fine puff paste into small patty-pans, ’.and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; and against they are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking out the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts into small bits, put them in a small tosser, with a grate of nutmeg, the least white pepper, and salt, a morsel of lemon peel, cut so •small that you can scarcely see it, a very little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few minutes before you fill. Observe always to put a bit of crust into patties, to keep them hollow wliile baking. Oyster Patties, or Small Pies.—As you open the oysters separate tlicrn from the liquor, vhich strain; parboil them, after taking off the beards. Parboil sweetbreads, and <iutting tliem in slice.-t, lay them and tlic oy.sters in layers, season very lightly with salt, pepper and rnaee. Then put half a teacup of liquor, and the sar.-ic of gravy. Hake in a slow oven ; and before you serve, put a teacup of cream, a httle more oyster lifiuoi’, and a cup of white gravy, all waiuned, l)ut not boiled. If for i)altics, the oysters should be cut in small dice, gently stewed, and seasoned as above, and put into the paste when ready for tabh'