A BEAUTIFUL PRESERVE OF APRICOTS. 155 wood three inches loup and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the stalks of the fruit on the stick from within an inch of one end to beyond the other, so as to make them look handsome. Simmer them in some syrup two successive da3's, covering them each time with it when cold. When they look clear, they are simmered enough. The third day do them like other candied fruit. See : receipt for it p. 154. A Beautiful Preserve of Apricots.—When ripe choose the finest apricots; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. ILay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. IHave ready an equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pounded, -•and strew it over them ; in the meantime break the stones and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it, •with the sugar and juice and also the kernels, into a preserving- ;pan. Let it simmer very gently till clear; then take out the ;pieces of apricots singly as they become so, put them into small rpots and pour the sj'rup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy paper. To Preserve Apricots in Jelly.—Pare the fruit very thin '.and stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder land strew over it. Jv^ext day boil very gently till they are clear, miove them into a bowl and pour the liquor over. The following iday pour the hquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boiling iind straining, and a pound of fine sugar ; let it boil quickl.v till it ■vill jelly; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. To Preserve Green Apricots.—Lay vine or apricot leaves lit the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, r he upper laj'er being thick with leaves; then fill with spring- '^vater, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan ut a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may be : mly soft, but not cracked. Wake a thin syrup of some of the ifvater, and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit Into the pan and the syrup to it; put the pan at a proper distance rom the fire till the apricots green, but on no account boil or -rack ; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup for wo or three daj's; then pour off as much of it as will be necessary', l nd boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little I Heed ginger into it. When cold, and the thin sjwup has all been E-rained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The formei will I :n'e to sweeten pies. I Apricots or Peaches in Brandy.—Wipe, weigh, and pick I he fruit, and have ready a fj[uarter of the weight of fine sugar in I ne powder. Put the fniit into an ice-pot that shuts very close ; I irow the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. I b'l'.veen the top and the cover of the pot put a piece of doublc- I ip paper. Set the pot into a saucepan of water till the brandy I e a.s hot as you can possibly bear to jmt your finger in, but it I iu.sf not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on ■ . \\ hen cold put a bladfler over, and tie it down tight. I To Dry Apricots in Half.—Pare thin and halve four pounds