107 TAKIHIDGK PIE—EKEXCH PIE—VEGETABLE PIE. Pigeon Pie.—Eub the pigeons with pepper and salt, in- side and out; in the latter put a little butter, and, if approved, some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same sea- soning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it; between every two, a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish ; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon ; it is a great improvement to the flavour. Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under part rather than the prime. Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put them in the centre of the pie; and over them, in a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show what pie it is. Partridge Pie in a Dish.—Pick and singe four partridges ; cut oflf the legs at the knee ; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal steak, and a slice of ham at the bottom of the dish ; put the partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. Put puff paste on the ledge of the dish, and cover with the same; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. Hare Pie, to Eat Cold.—Season the hare after it is cut up ; and bake it, with eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. "W'hen it is to be served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly- gravy, as in page 93. A Prench Pie.—Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the dish, and put in either veal in slices, rabbits, or chickens jointed, with forcemeat balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke bottoms, and a few truffles. Vegetable Pie.—Scald and blanch some broad beans; cut carrots, turnips, artichoke bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, let- tuce, parsley, celerj', or any of them you have ; make the whole into a nice stew, with some good veal gravy. Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid and pour in the stew. Parsley Pie.—Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, seasoned, into a dish; scald a colander-fuU of picked parsley in milk ; sea.son it; and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea-cnpful of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut of butter and a bit of flour. Shake it round, to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to th<-- parsley, and scalded before put in. Turnip Pie.—Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, re- serving tiic end of the neck bones to lay over the turnips, which must be cnit into small dice, and put on the steaks. Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may add sliced onions. Cover with a crust. Potatoc Pie.—Skin some potatoes, and cut tli«u into slices; ■season them; and alno sorrie mutton, beef, i)ork, or veal. Put layers of them and of the meat. An Herb Pic.—Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stem*,