212 TO DYE THE LININGS OF FHENITURE. as soon as the stain is removed to prevent the part from hemg •worn into holes by the acid. To Take out Milde'w.—Mix soft soap with starch powdered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay it on the part of both sides with a painter’s brush. Let it lie on the grass day and night till the stain comes out. To Make Manuels Keep their Colour, and not Shrink. —Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting them lie till cold the first time of washing. To Preserve Furs and Woollen from Moths.—Let the former be occasionally combed while in use, and the latter be brushed and shaken. AVhen not wanted, dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among them bitter apples from the apothecary’s, in small muslin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, care- fully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp. TO DYE THE LININGS OF FUENITUEE, &c.— Buff or Salmon Colour, according to the Depth of the Hue.—Kub down on a pewter plate twopenny-worth of Spanish aruatta, and then boil it in a pail of water a quarter of an hour. Put into it two ounces of potash, stir it round, and instantly put in the lining ; stir it about all the time it is boiling, which must be five or six minutes; then put it into cold pump water, and hang the articles up singly without ringing. When almost dry, fold and mangle it. Pink.—The calico must be washed extremely clean and be dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and four ounces of alum : take it out, and dry in the air. In the meantime boil in the alum-water two handfuls of wheat-bran till quite slippery, and then strain it. Take two scruples of cochineal, and two ounces of argali finely pounded and sifted; mi.x it with the liquor by little at a time. Then j)ut into the liquor the calico, and boil till it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the calico, and wash it in chamber-Ij’e first, and in cold water after; then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it quick without hanging it in folds. Mangle it very highly, unless you have it calendered, which is best. Blue.—Let the calico be washed clean and dried; them mix some of Scot’s liquid blue in as much water as will be sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and put some starch to it, to give a light stiffness. Dry a bit, to see whether the colour is deep enough; then set the linen, &c., into it, and wash it; then dry the articles singly, and mangle or calender them. To Dye Gloves to look like York Tan or Limerick, according to the Deepness of the Dye.—Put some saffron into a pint of soft water boiling hot, and let it infuse all night; next morning wet the leather over with a brush. The tops should be sewn close to prevent the colour from getting in. To Dye White Gloves a beautiful Purple.—Boil four ounces of logwood and two ounces of roche-alum in three pints of soft water till half wasted. Let it stand to be cold, after strain- ing. Let tlie gloves be nicely mended ; then with a brush do it