168 OUGEAT—LEMONADE—RASPBEEEy VINEGAK. Thus done, pressed and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. Orgeat.—Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold ; then pour it by de- grees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter that have been blanched and beaten to a paste, with a little water to pre- vent oilintr; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half a glass of brandy. Another way.—Blanch and pound three quarters of a pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, and three of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of fine sugar in a pint of water, boil and skim it well; mix it with the other, as like- wise two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and a tea-cupful of the best brandy. Lemonade, to be made the day before wanted.—Pare two dozen of tolerably sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight of the rinds into three quarts of hot, not boiling, water, and cover it over for three or four hours. Bub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a china bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound and a half of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix, and pour through a jelly- bag till perfectly clear. Another way.—Pare a number of lemons according to the quantity you arc likely to want; on the peels pour hot water, but more juice will be necessary than you need use the peels of. While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the w'hite of an egg whipt up; when it boils, pour a little cold water into it; set it on again, and when it boils up, take the pan off, and put it to settle. If there is any scum, take it off’, and pour it clear from the sediment to the water the peels were infused in, and the lemon-juice; stir and taste it, and add as much more water as shall be necessary to make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jelly- bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, which is uncom- monly fine. Lemonade that has the Flavour and Appearance of Jelly.—Pare two Seville oranges and six lemons as thin as pos- sible, and steep them four hours in a quart of hot water. Boil a pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar in three pints of water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges and twelve lemons; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly- bag till clear. Then add a little orange-water, if you like the flavour, and if wanted, more sugar. It will keep well if corked. Raspberry Vinegar.—Put a pound of fine fruit into a china bowl, and pour upon it a quart of the best white-wine vinegar; next day strain the liquor ou a pound of fresh raspberries, and the following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it. The last time pass it through a canvas previously wet with vinegar to prevent waste. Put it into a stone jar, with a pound of loaf sugar to every pint of juice