EULES TO BE OBSEEVED WITH PICKLES. 135 :French beans, pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep ; then sprinkle them with salt, put another layer of beans, and do the same as high as you think proper, alternately with salt, but not too much of this. Lay over them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and jjut a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise fVom the beans and salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will not be sufficient :to make them pleasant to the taste. When they are to be eaten, cut. soak, and boil them as if fresh. I Carrots, Parsnips, and. Beet-roots, should be kept in I layers of dry sand for winter use ; and neither they nor potatoes • should be cleared from the earth. Potatoes should be carefully . kept from frost. Store Onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. Parsley should be cut close to the stalks, and dried in a warm : room, or on tins in a very cold oven; it pi-eserves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. Artichoke Bottoms, slowly dried, should be kept in paper- I bags; and Truffles, Morels, Lemon Peel, &c., in a dry place, I ticketed. ! Small close Cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine after many weeks’ keeping. PICKLES.—Rules to be observed with Pickles.— Keep them closed’ covered, and have a wooden spoon, with holes, tied to each jar; aU metals being improper. They should be w'ell kept from the air, the large jars be seldom opened, and small ones for the different pickles in use, should be kept for common supply, into which what is not eaten may be returned, and the top closely covered. .Vcids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of saucepans. Wlien necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on the hot hearth. Pickles should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and vinegar penetrate the glaze, which is poisonous. Lemon Pickle.—Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlic, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, mace, nutmeg, and Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and two ounces of flour of mustard; to these put two quarts of vinegar. Boil a quarter of an hour in a well-tinned saucepan ; or, whicli is better, do it in a Ij stone jar, in a kettle of boiling water; or set the jar on the hot hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks; u keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. Indian Pickle.—^^Lay a ijound of wliitc ginger in water one night; then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other ingredients shall be ready. Peel, slice, and salt a pound of garlic three days, then put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pcpijcr in the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetal;lc.s thus ; (Quarter some small white cabl;agc.s, salt three days, squeeze, i and set them in the sun to dry. ; Cauliflowers cut in the branches ; take off the green from