loo MITSnEOOM POWDEE—ESSENCE OF ANCHOVIES, while quite fresh, and free from grit and dirt with flannel: scrape out the black part clean, and do not use any that are worm-eaten; f)ut them into a stew-pan over the fire without water, with two arge onions, some cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and two spoonfuls of white pepper, all in powder; simmer and shake them tiU all the liquor be dried up, but be careful they do not burn. Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enough to beat to powder, then put the powder in small bottles, corked and tied closely, and keep in a dry place. A tea-spoonful will give a very fine flavour to any soup or gravy, or any sauce; and it is to be added just before serving, and one boil given to it after it is put in. To Choose Anchovies.—They are preserved in barrels, with bay salt: no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; the flesh should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and have a fine smell. Essence of Anchovies.—Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and take out the bone, but with some of their own liquor strained, add them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water ; boil gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes; when cold, strain and bottle it. To Keep Anchovies when the Liquor Dries.—Pour on them beef brine. To Make Sprats Taste like Anchovies.—Salt them well, and let the salt drain from them. In twenty-four hours wipe them dry, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of com- mon salt, an ounce of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a quar- ter of an ounce of sal prunel, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal, all in the finest ijowder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of the fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Keep in a cold place fas- tened down with a bladder. These are pleasant on bread and butter; but use the best for sauce. Forcemeat to Force Fowls or Meat.—Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, some beef-suet, a small quan- tity of onion, some parsley, a very little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and bread crumbs. Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. For forcemeat patties, the mixture as above. Foi’cemeat, whether in the form of stutfingballs, or for patties, makes a considerable part of good cooking, by the flavour it im- parts to whatsoever dish it is added, if properly made. Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given; but the following observations may be useful, and habit wiU soon give knowledge in mixing it to the taste. _ At many tables w here everything else is well done, it is com- mon to find very bad stnfling. According to w hat it is wanted for, should be the selection from the following list, observing that of the most pungent articles, least must be used. No one flavour should predomiuate greatly;