CARROLE OF RICE—SALlIAGUJIDr—MACARONI. 151 either sen*e it dry, or put it in the middle of a disli, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. Carole of Rice.—Take some well-picked rice, wash it well and boil it live minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew- pan, with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion, btew it over a very gentle lire till tender; have ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon ; mix the yolks of two or three eggs with the rice, and then hne the bacon with it about half an inch thick; jmt into it a ragout of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any- thing else. Till up the moidd, and cover it close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven an hour, turn it over, and send it to table in a . good gravy or curry-sauce. Casserol, or Eice Edging, see page 102. Salmagxmdy is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the colours of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose . chop separately the white parts of cold chicken or veal, yolks of ■ eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs, parsley, half a dozen an- chovies, beet-root, red pickled cabbage, ham and grated tongue, or anything well flavoured, and of a good colour. Some people ^ like a small proportion of onion, but it may be better left out. A saucer, large tea-cup, or an5' other base, must be put into a small I dish; then make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing j : smaller towards the top ; choosing such of the ingredients for each I ; row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of j curled parsley may be stuck in; or, without anything on the dish, i ■ the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put into the half-whites 1 of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting ofi* a bit at i the roimd end. In the latter case, each half egg has but one ingi-e- I dient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. ! Macaroni as usually served.—Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, pretty well flavoured with salt. When tender, put it . into a dish without the liquor, and among it put some bits of but- ■ ter and grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more butter. Set the dish into a Dutcli oven a quarter of an hour, but do not let the top become hard. Another way.—Wa.sh it well, and simmer it in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of this hquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of cream; just make it hot to thicken but not boil; put it over the macaroni, and then grate some fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown with the salamander. Another.—Wash the macaroni, then simmer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. Wlien quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a uood deal of chee.se ' over, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen I colander over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven, to 1 roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The broad I should be in separated crumbs, and look light, j Omelet.—Make a batter of eggs and milk and a very little flour; put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives (tlio 1