LOBSTEES—CHADS—OTSTEKS. 33 it before the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it has a fine froth. CAirrie of Lobsters or Prawns.—Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal-gravy, and four of cream: rub smooth one or two tea-spoonfuls of currie-powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter: simmer an houi*; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. Prawns and Cray-fish in Jelly, a beautiful Dish.— Make a savour}" fish jelly, and put some into the bottom of a deep small dish ; when cold, lay the cray-fish with their backs down- wards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. To Butter Prawns or Shrimps.—Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets; or with a cream-sauce instead of brown. To Pot Shrimps.—When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold put butter. CRABS.—Hot Crab.—Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spdonfuls of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the fire. Dry toast should be served to eat it upon. Dressed Crab Cold.—Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with oil, vinegar, salt, and a little white pepper and Cayenne; then put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. Very little oil is n6C^83?irv. OYSTERS.—To Feed Oysters.—Put them into water, and wash them with a birch-besom till quite clean ; then lay them bottom-downwards in a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every da}', and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. To Stew Oysters.—Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers, oirnmer them very gently, and put some cream and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippet.s. Boiled Oysters.—Eat well. Let the shells be nicely cleaned first, and seTn.e in them, to eat with cold butter. To Scallop Oysters.—Put them with crumbs of bread, pep- per, salt, nutmeg, and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells or saucers, and l»ake before the fire in a Dutch oven. Fried (^sters, to garnish Boiled Fish.—Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should bo put into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. Oyster Sauce.—See Sauces. Oyster Loaves.—Open them, and save tho liquor; wash tlicni