188 TO niEPARE RENNET—TO MAKE CHEESE. Cheese made on the same ground, of nevr skimmed, or mixed milk, will differ greatly, not in richness only, but also in taste. Those who direct a dairy in a gentleman’s family should consider m which way it can be managed to the best advantage. Even with few cows, cheeses of value may be made from a tolerable pasture, by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and propor- tioning the thickness of the vat to the quantity, rather than having a wide and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addi- tion of a pound of fresh-made butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very different quahty from that usually produced by it. A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be ver}^ advantageous for the use of the parlour. Clieese for common family use will be very well produced by two meals of skim, and one of new milk ; or on good land, by skim milk only. Butter likewise should be made, and potted down for winter use, but not to interfere with the cheese as above, which will not take much time. To Prepare Rennet, to Turn the Milk.—Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and well scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours; then sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresli water. Another way.—Clean the maw as above; next day take two quarts of fresh spring water, and put into it a handful of haw- thorn tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil gently to tlirec pints of water; strain it off; and when only milk- warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into it; let it stand two days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at the least twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Do not keep it in a hot place when dry. To Make Cheese.—Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new ; if too hot, the cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn it, and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned; then strike the curd down several times with the skimming dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking the curd; and there will be a difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either is observed ; one is, to gather it with the hands very gently towards the side of the tub, letting the yhey pass through tlie fingers till it is cleared, and lading it off as it collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by early breaking the ciu'd;