148 STEWED GOLDEN PIPPINS—STEWED PEAKS. to a jelly; init this to the apple water and apple, as strained through a coarse sieve; add sugar, a little lemon juice and peel; boil all together, and put into a dish. Take out the peel. To Scald Codlins.—Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a nice saucepan; and when full, pour as much water as n ill cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmer slowly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. Place them in a dish, wither without milk, cream, or custard; if the latter, there should be no ratafia. Dust fine sugar over the apples. Steu 3d Golden Pippins.—Scoop out the core, pare them very fine, and as you do it, throw them in water. Por ever pound of fruit make half a pound of single refined sugar into syrup with a pint of water; when skimmed, put the pippins in, and stew till clear ; then grate lemon over, and serve in the syrup. Be careful not to let them break. Tliey are an elegant and good dish for a corner or dessert. Black Caps.—Halve and core some fine large apples, put them in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce. Another way.—Take off a slice from the stalk end of some apples, and core without paring them. Make ready as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, and mix it with some grated lemon, and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with this, and turn the flat end down on a stew- pan i set them on a very slow fire, with half a pint of raisin wine, and the same of water: cover them close, and now and then baste them with the liquor; when done enough, black the tops with a salamander. Stewed Pears.—Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, ac- cording to their size; throw them into water, as the skin is taken off before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack them round a block-tin stew-pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked ; just covey them with water, and put some of the red liquor, as directed in another article. Cover them close, and stew three or four hours; when tender, take them out, and pour the liquor from them. Baked Pears.—These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but do not pare, and lay them on tin plates, and bake them in a slow oven. When done enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked three or four times, and very gently. Orange Butter.—Boil six hard eggs, beat them in a mortar with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of blanched almonds beaten to a paste. Moisten with orange-flower water, and when all is niixed, rub it through a colander on a dish, and serve sweet biscuits between. Wino Rolls.—Soak a penny French roll in raisin wine till it will hold no more; put it in the dish, and pour round it a custard,