132 TO STEW EED CABBAGE—MUSnEOOlIS. lialf-done drain tlie water oflf, and put tliem into two spoonfuls of broth strained; and add a little cream, butter, and flour, to finish doing them. To Stew Red Cabbage.—Slice a small, or half a large red cabbage, wash and put it into a saucepan with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew till quite tender; and when going to serve, add two or three spoon- fuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Another way.—Shred the cabbage, wash it, and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a tew minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar and boil up. Another.—Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stew- pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted; then put it into the dish, and hiy fried sausages on it. Mushrooms.—The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringy fur of a very fine salmon- colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark browui. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have a white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. To Stew Mushrooms.—The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. SiJrinkle them with salt, and put into a stew^-pan with some pepper-corns; simmer slow’Iy till done, then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two spoonfuls of cream: give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. To Stew Sorrel for Fricandeau and Roast Meat.— Wash the sorrel, and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jai*, with no more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow as you can, and w hen done enough put a bit of butter, and beat it w'ell. French Salad.—Chop three anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley, small; put them into a howl with two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, one of oil, a little mustard, and salt. When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very thin slices;