BUN'S—CIXfiKUTUlE VI). 175 A good Plain Bun, that may bo oaten with or with- out Toasting and Butter.—Eub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you like, a few Jamaica peppers, a dessert spoonful of caraways; put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into a light paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the oven be ready. They will quicklj'' bake on tins. ' Kicher Buns.—Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half a pound of sugar; melt a pound and two ounces of butter in a httle warm water ; add six spoonfuls of rose-water, and knead the above into a hght dough, with half a pint of yeast; then mix five ounces of caraway-comfits in, and put some on them. Gingerbread.—Mix with two pounds of flour, half a pound of treacle, three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce of ginger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. EoU the paste into what form you please, and bake on tins, after having worked it very much and kept it to rise. If you like sweetmeats add orange candied; it may be added in small bits. Another sort.—To three quarters of a pound of treacle beat one egg strained; mix four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of ginger sifted; of cloves, mace, allspice and nutmeg a quarter of an ounce, beaten as fine as possible; coriander and caraway seeds each a quarter of an ounce; melt one pound of butter and mix with the above, and add as much flour as will knead into a pretty stiflT paste; then roll it out and cut into cakes. Bake on tin plates in a quick oven. A little time will bake them. Of some, drops may be made. A Good Plain Sort.—Mix three pounds of flour with half a ponnd of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of pounded ginger; then make into a paste with one pound and a quarter of treacle, warm. A Good. Sort without Butter.—Mix two pounds of trea- cle, of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, each four ounces, all thinly sliced; one ounce of coriander seeds, one ounce of caraways, and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft paste ; lay it in cakes on tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Eeep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. —If cakes or bi.scuits be kept in paper, or a drawer, the ta.ste will be disagreeable. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist. — Or, if to be crisp, laying them before the fire will make them so. Rusks.—Beat seven eggs well, and mix with half a pint of new milk, in which have been melted four ounces of butter ; add to it a quarter of a pint of yeast and three ounces of sugar, and put them by degrees into as much flour as will make a very light paste Tather like batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour; then add .some more flour to make it a little stiller, but not stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes, about five or six inches '>vidc, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice