192 MA.NAGEMEXT OF FOWLS. the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire ; the slower the better. Kemove the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. The butter is usually made in Devonshire of cream thus prepared, and if properly done it is very firm. Euttermilk.—If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most wholesome food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk, find it still more light; and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. Buttermilk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened v ith white sugar and mixed with a very little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes and rice-pud- dings, and of course it is economical to churn before the cream is too stale for anything but to feed pigs. To Keep Milk and Cream.—In hot weather, when it is diffi- cult to preserve milk from becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, it may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very gently, without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen dish or pan that it is done in. This method is pursued in Devonshire, for butter and eating, and would equally answer in small quantities for coffee, tea, &c. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty- four hours if scalded without sugar; and by adding to it as much powdered lump-sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good two days, kee])ing it in a cool place. Syrup of Cream may be preserved as above in the proportion of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream; keep it in a cool place two or three hours ; then put it in one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful on long voyages. Gallino Curds and Whey, as in Italy.—Take a number of the rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys and fowls; clean them from the pebbles they contain; rub them well with salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and deli- cate curd than common rennet.. When to be used, break off some bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water: in eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other rennet. To Choose Butter at Market.—Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when drawn out; if there is anything rancid or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at the goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it between the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be of an equal colour ad through: if .sour in smell, it has not been suffi- ciently washed; if veiny and open, it is probably mixed with staler or an inferior sort. POULTRY-YARD.—Mauagemont of Fowls.—In or- der to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a good breed, and have pi’oper care taken of them. The Dartford sort is thought highly of, and it is desirable to have a fine large kind, but people