EXCEILKXT SWJCETMKATS FOU TAUTS—LEMON DROPS. 163 of boiling water put a quantity of the fairest golden pippins, in slices not very thin, and not pared, but wiped clean. Bod them very quick, close covered, till the water becomes a thick jelly; then scald the quinces. To every pint of pippin-jelly put a pound of the finest sugar ; boil it, ana skim it clear. Put those quinces that are to be done whole into the syrup at once, and let it boil very fast; and those that are to be in halves by themselves; skim it, and when the fruit are clear, put some of the syrup into a glass to try whether it jellies before taking off the fire. The quantity of quinces is to be a pound to a pound of sugar, and a pound of jelly already boiled with the sugar. Excellent Sweetmeats for Tarts, when Fruit is plen- tiful.—Divide two pounds of apricots when just ripe, and take out and break the stones ; put the kernels without their skin to the fruit; add to it three pounds of greengage plums, and two pounds and a half of lump sugar; simmer until the fruit be a clear jam. The sugar should be broken in large pieces, and just dipped in water, and added to the fruit over a slow fire. Observe that it does not boil, and skim itwell. If the sugar be clarified, it will make the jam bitter. Put it into small pots, which keep sweetmeats best. Magnum Bonum Plums: excellent as a Sweetmeat, or in Tarts, though very bad to eat raw.—Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, simmer them very gently in a thin syrup, put them in a china bowl, and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three days; then make a sjTup of three pounds of sugar to five of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. Boil the plums in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for, longer in the pan, and boil it quickly ; then give the fruit one warm more ; drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment, if not boiled in two syrups; the^ former will sweeten pies, but will have too much acid to keep. You may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar to do those that are to drj', for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Do not break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save much sugar. Lemon Drops.—Grate three fine large lemons, with a large piece of double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a moderate oven on a tin plate. Barberry Drops.—The black tops must be cut off: then roast the fruit before the fire, till soft enough to pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china basin ; then set the basin in a saucepan of water, the top of which w ill just fit it, or on a hot hearth, and stir it till it grows thick. 'When cold, put to every