nOASTED SUCKIXG PIG—PETTITOES. 59 To Roast a Sucking Pig.—If j^ou can get it when just ' killed, this is of great advantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usuallj' do; then put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and Eepper into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs ack, or the under pai-t will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry, then have ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve; then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttei’ed cloth, and take ofi’ the head while at the fire; take out the brains and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig. Then take it up, and without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay ic into the dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you .can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has ;been spht down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two jaws; take off the upper j)art of the head down to the •snout. In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small; the head only being cut off to garnish as above. Pettitoes.—Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small quantity of water, very gently; then cut the meat fine and •simmer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet :are quite tender; thicken with a bit of buttei’, a little flour, a •spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper ; give it a boil up, ;X>our it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the unince. To make excellent Meat of a Hog’s Head.—Split the head, and take out the brains, cut off the ears, and sprinkle it writh common salt for a day; then drain it: salt it well with salt \and saltpetre three days, then lay the salt and head into a small quantity of water for two days. Wash it, and boil till alt the bones will come out; remove them, and chop the head as quick as pos.sible ; but first skin the tongue and take the skin carefully off the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, salt and a little rnace or allspice-berries. Put the skin into a small pan, pres-s the cut head in, and put the other skin over ; press it down. When cold it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too fat. you may put some lean pork, to be prepared the same way. 'Add salt and vinegar, and boil these with some of the liquor for a pickle to keep it. To Roast Porker’s Head.—Choose a fine young head, clean it well and put bread and sage as for jiig ; sew it up tight, and on a string or hanging-jack roast it as a jiig, and serve with the same sauce. To Prepare Pig’s Cheek for Boiling.—Cut off the snout, anrl clean the head ; divirlc it, take out the c3'cs and tlie liruins ; jprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain twenty-four liours. Salt it with common salt and saltpetre : let it lie ciglit or ten daj’s if it be dressed without stewing witli peas, but less if to be dressed