QXTEEN CAKES—SHREWSBERY CAKES. 173 into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of currants. W'arm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By t'le addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two. you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. Queen Cakes.—Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted rsugar, and of currants washed clean. Wash a pound of butter in •rose-water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, yolks and w^tes beaten separately, and put in all the dry ingredients by degrees; beat the whole an hour; butter little tins, teacups, or •saucers, and bake the batter in, filling onlj' half- Sift a little fine =sugar over just as you put into the oven. Another way.—Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix with two well-beaten eggs, strained; mix eight ounces of dried flour, land the same of lump sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon, then ;add the whole together, and beat full half an hour with a silver- ispoon. Butter small pattypans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Shrewsbury Cakes.—Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded ^cinnamon, and a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the nSnest sort; add a little rose-water to three eggs, well beaten, and mix these with the flour, &c., then pour into it as much melted ioutter as will make it a good thickness to roll out. iilould it well, and roll .thin, and cut it into such shapes as you ike. Tunbridge Cakes.—Bub six ounces of butter quite fine, into a pound of flour, then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and ■Ttrain two eggs, and make with the above into a paste. Boll it ferj thin, and cut it with the top of a glass ; prick them with a ' brk, and cover with caraways, or wash with the white of an egg, imd dust a little white sugar over. Bice Cake.—Mix ten ounces of groiind rice, three ounces of ; lour, eight ounces of pounded sugar ; then sift by degrees into ■ight yolks and six whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred • o fine that it is quite mashed; mix the whole well in a tin stew- tan over a very slo'w fire with a whisk, then put it immediately nto the oven in the same and bake forty minutes. Another.—Beat twelve yolks and six wliites of eggs with the .-leels of two lemons grated. Mix one pound of flour of rice, ight ounces of flour, and one poundof sugar pounded and sifted ; hen beat it well with the eggs, by degrees, for an hour, witli a t ."ooden spoon. Butter a pan well, and i>ut in at the oven’s , louth. A gentle oven will bake it in an hour and a half. Water Cakes.—Dry three pounds of fine flour, and lub ito it one pound of sugar sifted,one pound of butter, and one ounce f caraway ^eds. Make it into a paste with three fpiartcrs of a int of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and ent into the size you boose ; punch full of holes, and bake on tin-nlatcs in a cool oven. Sponge Cake.—Weigh ten eggs, and add their weight in very