92 CULLIS, OE BKOWN QEAVy—GEAVY FOE A FOWL. CuUis, or Brown G-i'avy.—Lay over the bottom of a stew- pan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick ; then cover the veal with tliin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, two or three bay leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Cover tlie stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire ; but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good beef broth, boil and skim it, then simmer an hour; and add a little water, mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick : boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. Bechamel, or White Sauce.—Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same quantity of lean bacon or ham; put them into a stew-pan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a few mushroom buttons, a bit of thyme, and a bay leaf; fry the whole over a very slow fire, but do not brown it; thicken it with flour; then put an equal quantity of good broth, and rich cream : let it boil for half an hour, and stir it all the time ; strain it through a soup-strainer. A Gravy without Meat.—Put a glass of small beer, a glass of water, some pepjier, salt, lemon peel grated, a bruised clove or two, aiid a spoonful of walnut pickle, or muslu’oom ketchup, into a basin. Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter till it is brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosscr with the onion, and simmer it, covered, twenty minutes. Strain it off for use, and when cold take off the fat. A Eich Gravy.—Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity wanted ; slice onions thin, and flour both; fry them of a light pale brown, but do not on any account suffer them to get black ; put them into a stew-pan, pour boiling water on the brown- ing in (he frying-pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a bunch of parsley, f hyme, and savory, a small bit of knotted mar- ioram, the same of tarragon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat; and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. If fora hare, or stowed fish, anchovy should be added. Gravy for a Fowl, when there is no Meat to make it of.—AVa.-h Ihc feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small; simmer them with a little bread browned ; a slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, till half-wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and it will be very good. Veal Gravy.—Make it as directed for Cullis ns above, but leave out the spice, hci’bs, and flour. It should bo drawn very slowly ; and if for white dishes do not let the meat brown. Gravy to make Mutton eat like Venison.—Pick a very stale woodcock, or snipe, exit it to pieces (but first take out the bag from the entrails), and simmer with as much unseasoned meat gravy as you will want. Strain it, and serve in the dish.