G2 WHITE noo’s PUDDINGS—TO CUIIE HAMS. mucli boiling-liot milk as will swell them aud leave half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of pennyroyal, some savoury and thyme; salt, pepper, and allspice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will rnake it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improve- ment. Another way.—Boil a quart of half-grits in as much milk as will swell them to the utmost; then drain them and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nut- meg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder ; two pounds of the hog’s leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of pennyroyal, and a sprig of thyme and knotted majoram, all minced fine; eight eggs well beaten, half a pound of bread-crumbs that liave been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, and salt. Half fill the skins ; which must first be cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and soaked in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, boil and prick them with a clean fork to prevent their bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth till cold. White Hog’s Puddings.—When the skins have been soaked aud cleaned as before directed, rinse and soak them all night in rose-water, and put into them the following filling: Mix half a pound of blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, nvice, and nutmeg, a quart of cream, the yolks of six and whites of two eggs, a little orange-flower water, a little fine Lisbon sugar, aud some lemon- peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins. To know whether sweet enough, warm a little in a panikin. In boiling, much care must be taken to prevent the puddings from bursting. Prick them with a small fork as they rise, and boil them in milk aud water. Lay tliem in a table-cloth tiU cold. Hog’s Lard should be carefully melted in a jar put into a kettle of water, and boiled ; run it into bladders that have been extremely well cleaned. The smaller they are the better the lard keeps ; as after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Put in a sprig of rosemary when melting. This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should be pre- pared with care. Mixed with butter, it makes fine crust. To Cure Hams.—Hang them a day or two; then sprinkle them with a little salt, and drain them another day ; pound an ounce aud a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, half an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest sugar. Mix these well; and rub tliem into each ham every day for four days, and turn it. If a small one, turn it every day for three weeks; if a large one, a week longer; but do not rub after four days. Bafoi’e you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. Another way.—Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and well