LEirOX CHEESECAKES—OEAXGE CHEESECAKES. 127 'mon in fine po’n'der, and beat all the above with three eggs, and hall* a pint of cream, till quite light; then fill the patty-pans three .parts lull. . A Plainer Sort.—Timi three quarts of milk to curd, break it and drain the whey ; when dry, break it up in a pan, with two ounces of butter, till perfectl}' smooth ; put to it a pint and a half of thin cream, or good mUk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, .and three ounces of currants. Cheesecakes, another way.—Mix the curd of three quarts :of mdk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of ■einht and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandj'. Put a hght thin puff paste in the patty-pans, and :three parts fill them. Lemon Cheesecakes. — Mix four ounces of sifted lump sgngar, with four ounces of butter, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two and the white of one egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and the juice of one and a half, with one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, and three spoonfuls of brandy; mix well: put in paste made as follows :—Eight ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two-thirds of which mix with the iflour first, then wet it with six spoonfuls of water, and roll the re- nnainder in. Another way.—Boil two fine lai’ge lemons, or three small ones, and after squeezing, pound them well together in a mortar, nvith four ounces of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and eight ounces of fresh butter. Fill the patty-pans half full. Orange Cheesecakes are done the same way, only you must boil the peel in two or three waters to take out the bitterness, or make them of orange marmalade well beaten in a mortar. Orange Cheesecakes. — When }'ou have blanched half a pound of almonds, beat them very fine with orange-flower water, and half a pound of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of but- ter that has been melted carefidly without oiling, and which must be nearly cold before you use it; then beat the yolks of ten, and whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bittcrne.ss boiled out, in a mortar till as tender as mar- malade, without any lumps ; and beat the whole together and put into patty-pans. Pot?,to Cheesecakes.—Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of lemon peel; beat the latter in a marble mortar with four ounces of sugar: then add the potatoes, beaten, and four ■ ounces of butter melted in a little cream. Wlicn well mixed, let it stand to grow cold. Put crust in pntly-i)ans, ami rather more than half fill tliern. Bake in a fpiifk oven half an hour, sifting ^ome doTible-refined sugar on them when going to the oven.— fhi.s quantity ■.ill make a dozen. Almond Chce.secakcs.—Blanch and pound four ounces of ■sweet almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water; then I