28 TR0T7T—MACKEEEI. marjoram), half a pint of port wine, and six anchovies, cover over the pan, and bake it an hour. Let it be done before it is wanted. Pour the liquor from it, and keep the fish hot while you heat up the liquor with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a tea-spoonfm of mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoonful of soy. Serve the fisli on the dish, garnished with lemon, parsley, and horse-radish, and put the gravy into the sauce-tureen. Perch and Tench.—Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch are a most delicate fish. They may be either fried or stewed, but in stewing they do not preserve so good a flavour. To Fry Trout and Grayling.—Scale, gut, and well wash ; then dry tliem, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping ; serve with crimped parsley, and plain butter. Perch and Tench may be done the same way. Trout a-la-Genevoise.—Clean the fish very well; put it into your stewpan, adding half Champagne and half Moselle, or Phcnish, or sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme; put in it a crust of French bread; set it on a quick fire. When the fish is done, take the bread out, bruise it, and then thicken the sauce; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil up. See that 3''our sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried bread. MACKEREL.—Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and salt; or stuff with the same, crumbs, and chopped fennel. Collared, as Eel, page 31. Potted : clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice, bay- leaves, and some butter; when cold, lay them in a potting-pot, and cover with butter. Pickled : boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few peppers, bay-leaves, and some vinegar; when cold, pour it over them. Pickled Mackerel, called Caveach.—Clean and divide them ; then cut each side into three, or, leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder ; mix, and making lioles in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each piece with some of it; then fry them brown in oil ; let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone-jar, and cover with vinegar ; if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus done, they may be preserved for months. , Red MuUet.—It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a