197 SICK COOKEKY—GKKEEAL EEMAEKS. destroy them. If the breed should be too small, put a few tame pigeons of the common kind and of their own colour among them. Observe not to have too large a proportion of cock birds ; for they are quari’elsome, and will soon thin the dove- cote. Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them healthy. Lay a large heap of clay near the house; and let the salt brine that may be done with in the family be poured upon it. Bay salt and cummin seeds mixed are a universal remedy for the diseases of pigeons. The backs and breasts are sometimes scabby; in which case, take a quarter of a pound of bay salt, and as much common salt, a pound of fennel seed, a pound of dill seed, as much cummin seed, and an ounce of assafoetida; mix all with a little wheaten flour, and some fine-worked clay ; when all are well beaten together, put it into two earthen pots, and bake them in the oven. When cold, put them on the table in the dovecote ; the pineons will eat it, and thus be cured. Rabbits.—The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great care is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. The tame one brings forth every month, and must be allowed to go with the buck as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay, oats, beans, sow-thistle, parsley, carrot tops, cabbage leaves, and *bran, fresh and fresh, should be given to them. If not very well attended, their stench will destroy themselves, and be very unwholesome to all who hfe near them ; but attention wfil prevent this in- convenience. COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AHD FOR THE POOR. The following pages will contain cookery for the sick ; it being of more consequence to support those whose bad appetite will not allow them to take the necessary nourishment, than to stimu- late that of persons in health. It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be made of the things most likely to agree with the patient; that a change be provided; that some one at least be always ready; that not too much of those be made at once, which are not likely to keep, as invalids require variety ; and that they should succeed each other in different forms and flavours. A clear Broth that will keep long—Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few slianks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover close with a disli or coarse crust: bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only ns much water as will cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to be used, give what flavour may be api)i'oved. A Quick-made Broth.—l ake a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the lire in a small tin saucepan that has a cover, with three quarters of a jnnt of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits ; put a