88 SPIXACH SOUP—SCOTCH lEEK SOUP—HARE SOUP. strain the soui) on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the caiTots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. Onion Soup.—Into the water that has boiled a leg or neck of mutton, put can’ots, turnips, and (if you have one) a shank- bone, and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown; simmer three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. Spinach Soup.—Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two onions, one head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled; stew till the vegetables are quite tender; work them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and liquor put a quart of fresh water, pepper and salt, and boil all together. Have ready some suet- dumplings, the size of a walnut; and before you put the soup into the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not be shred too fine ; and take care that it is quite fresh. Scotch Leek Soup.—Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pepper and salt; simmer them an hour ; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently; but take care that it does not burn to the bottom. Hare Soup.—Take an old hare that is good for nothing else, cut it into pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lean beef, two or three shank-bones of mutton well cleaned, a slice of lean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; pour on it two quarts of boiling water; cover the jar into which you put these, with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water. Simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces ; strain olf the liquor and give it one boil, with an anchovy cut into pieces ; and add a spoon- ful of soy, a little Cayenne, and salt. A few fine forcemeat-balls, fried of a good browm, shoiild be served in the tureen. Ox Rump Soup.—Two or three rumps of beef will make it stronger than a miich larger quantity of meat without these, and form a very nourishing soup. Make it hke gravy soup, and give it what flavour or thickening you like. Hessian Soup and Ragout.—Clean the root of a neat’s tongue very nicely, and half an ox head, with salt and water, and soak them afterwards in water only. Then stew them in five or six quarts of water, till quite tender. Let the soup stand to be cold; take off the fat, which will make good paste for hot meat- pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a pint of split peas, or a quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, six turnips, six potatoes, six large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celery.