94 SAtrCE FOE WILD FOWL—SADCE A-LA-MAITKE D’HOTEL. add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour; salt to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after tbe sauce is taken off the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is often used in fricassee, but if you have any cream it is better, as the former is apt to curdle. Sauce for Wild Fowl.—Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat grav.y, a little shalot, a little pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace for ten minutes ; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame, but may be done so if liked. Another for the same, or for Ducks. — Serve a rich gravy in the dish ; cut the breast into slices, but do not take them off; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt on it; then squeeze it on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you help. An excellent Sauce for Carp, or Boiled Turkey.— Rub half a pound of butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick cream and half an anchovy chopped fine, not washed ; set it over the fire, and as it boils up add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more. Turn it into the sauce tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon: stir it well to hinder it from curdling. Sauce for Fowls of any sort.— Boil some veal gravy, pep- per, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine as of gravy: pour it into the dish or a boat. Sauce for Cold Fowl or jPartridge.—Rub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, an anchovy, two dessert spoonfuls of oil, three of vinegar, a shalot, Cayenne if approved, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. All should be i>ounded before the oil is added. Then strain it. Shalot-vinegar instead of shalot eats well. Sauce a-la-Maitre d’Hotel.—Put a piece of butter into a saucepan with some curled parsley, some taiTagon leaves, a shalot, two leaves of balm, a little salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice, and mix the whole with a spoon until they are well incorporated, and simmer a few minutes. A very fine Mushroom Sauce for Fowls or Babbits.— Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with salt to take off the tender skin. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up and stir them till done; then pour it round the chickens, &c. Garnish with lemon. If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones done w-hite, with a little mushroom powder with the cream. &c. ' Lemon White Sauce for Boiled Fowls.—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich^creara, with a sprig of lemon-thyme and ten white pepper-corns. Sfmiuer gently till it tastes well of the lemon then strain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter and a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up, then pour the juice of the lemon