183 KLACK CUKRANX ■VVIRK—GINGER WINE. bottle of brandy to every four gallons ; bung it close, but leave the peg out at top a few days : keep it three years, and it will be a very fine agreeable wine ; four years would make it stiU better. Black Currant Wine, very fine.—To every three quarts of juice, put the same of water unboiled ; and to every three quarts of the liquor, add three pounds of very pure moist sugar. Put it into a cask, preserving a little for filling up. Put the cask in a warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself. Skim ofi the refuse when the fermentation shall be over, and fiU up with the reserved liquor. When it has eeased working, pour three quarts of brandy to forty quarts of wine. Bung it close for nine months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through a jelly- bag until it be clear, and bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve months. Excellent Ginger Wine.—Put into a very nice boiler ten gallons of water, fifteen pounds of lump sugar, with the whites of six or eight eggs well beaten and strained; mix all well while cold; when the liquor boils skim it well; put in half a pound of common white ginger bruised, boil it twenty minutes. Have ready the very thin rinds of seven lemons, and pour the liquor on them ; when cool, tun it with two spoonfuls of yeast; put a quart of the liquor to two ounces of isinglass shavings while warm, whisk it well three or four times, and pom* all together into the barrel. Next day stop it up ; in three weeks bottle, and in three months it will be a delicious and refreshing liquor; and though very cool, perfectly safe. Another.—Boil nine quai’ts of water with six pounds of lurnp- sugar, the rinds of two or three lemons very thinly pared, With two ounces of bruised white ginger, half an hour; skim. Put three quarters of a pound of raisins into the cask; when the liquor is lukewarm, t;m it with the juice of two lemons strained,^ and a spoonful and a half of yeast. Stir it daily, then put in half a pint of brandy, and half an ounce of isinglass shavings; stop it up, and bottle it six or seven weeks. Do not put the lemon-peel in the barrel. Orange Wine.—To six gallons of spring water, put fifteen pounds of loaf-sugar, and the whites of four eggs well beaten ; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and as the scum rises take it off; when cold, add the juice of fifty Seville oranges and five lemons; pare twelve oranges and five lemons as thin as possible, put them on thread, and suspend them in the barrel for one month, then take them out, and put in two pounds of loaf-sugar and bung it up. Excellent Cowslip Wine.—To every gallon of water weigh three pounds of lump sugar, boil the quantity half an hour, taking off the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust of toasted bread dipped in thick yeast, let the liquor ferment in the tub thirty-six hours : then into the cask put, for every gallon, the juice of two and rind of one lemon, and both of one Seville orange, and one gallon of cowslip pips, then pour on them the liquor. It must bo carefullj'^ stirred every day for a week; then to every