160 EED APPLES IIT JEItf—DEIED APPLES. the core; then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps ; just dip them in water, and boiling it up till it can be well skimmed, and is a thick syrup, put it to the pulp, and simmer it on a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon peel before boiled, but if too much it will be bitter. Apple Jelly for Preserving Apricots, or for any sort of Sweetmeats.—Let apples be pared, quartered, and cored; put them into a stew-pan with as much water as will cover them; boil as fast as possible; when the fruit is all in a mash, add a quart of water: boil half an hour more, and run through a jelly- bag. If in summer, codlins are best; in September, golden rennets or winter pippins. Red Apples in Jelly.—Pare and core some well-shaped apples, i)ippins or golden rennets, if you have them, but others will do ; throw them into water as you do them: put them in a preserving pan, and with as little water as will only half cover them; let them coddle, and when the lower side is done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie too close when first put in. Mix some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with the fruit. When sufficiently done, take them out on the dish they are to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take the water, and make a rich jelly of it with loaf sugar, boiling the thin rind and juice of a lemon. When come to a jelly, let it grow cold, and put it on and among the apples ; cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, and put it across the eye of the apple. Observe that the colour be fine from the first, or the fruit will not afterwards gain it, and use as little of the cochineal as will serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. Dried Apples.—Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and flatten them by degrees, and gently, when soft enough to bear it. If the oven be too hot, they will waste and first it should be very ceol. The biffin, the minshvd crab, o any tart apple are the sorts for drying. To Preserve Jargonel Pears most beautifully.—Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup ; let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again, and repeat this till they are clear ; then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in syrup, and dried as wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. G-ooseberry Jam for Tarts.—Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries, when ripe, and gathered in dry weather, into a preserving-pan, with a pint of currant juice, drawn as for jelly; let them boil pretty quick, and beat them witli the spoon ; when they begin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white Lisbon sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boiling, or will not keep, but is an excellent and reasonable thing for tarts or puffs. Look at it in two or three days, and if the syrup and fruit separate, the whole must be boiled longer. Be careful it does not burn to the bottom.