ADVERTISEMENTS. London: HORACE COX, 316, STRAND, W.C. experiments in cooking and heating apparatus; and this is the only investigation that has been made for years. PARIS INXERNA-TION-AL EXHIBITION. Extracts from the Report on the Classes, prepared by order of THE COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON EDUCATION. “ Thebe is no reason to believe that the English form of Cooking Range, as exhibited by several makers, is less wasteful of heat than heretofore, except in the case of the Range called * Richard’s Circular Fronted,’ improved, made, and exhibited by Mr. W. Barton, of Boston, England. The Circular Front enables the cook to stand at the Hot Plate without being exposed to the direct rays of the fire, and with room to work. The wedge-shape of the Fire-box effects an economy of fuel, none of the heat being lost at the back. “The moveable bottom to the Fire-box, whether original or not, has been most efficiently adapted by Mr. Barton. This opinion is only given after repeated trials. The arrangement is simple, and works well, and will effect a very large saving of fuel. Mr. Barton’s arrangement for ash-pit, dust-flue, valves, &c., cannot be too highly Bpoken of. “ The qualities to be demanded from a Range are—economy of fuel, which means the least waste of heat after all the work required has been done; the proper communication of heat in due proportion, and in the least possible time, to all the different parts, without waste; and a control over the heat, so as to regulate the temperature in any one part; all this to be simply arranged so that any one can work it. In addition, may be mentioned facility of cleaning, repairing, and convenience and personal comfort for use. “Economy of heat will depend on the way in which the flame is made to circulate between the parts required to be heated with the least loss to the surrounding walls and plates, and also on the use that is made of the steam from the boiler. The proper com- munication of heat to the parts will depend on the form and nature of construction of the smoke passages, and on the efficiency of the valves and dampers placed to control its passage. It may be said that in few Ranges are these conditions really fulfilled; but I have no hesitation in saying that Mr. Barton, of Boston, has more nearly done so than any other that I have met.’—See Illustrated London News, Nov. 2, 1867. Now ready, with Map, post 8vo., price 6s. THE D1AM0M© OF SOUTH AFRICA. •A. PERSONAL ^AISTD PRACTICAL -ACCOUNT. By “SARCELLE,” of “The Field.” WITH A BRIEF NOTICE OF THE NEW GOLD FIELDS. From the “ Dundee Advertiser.” This book will in all probability meet with a ready sale and extensive circulation. • • • Tbe author of this book is already known as a racy and entertaining writer under his rum. de plume “ Sarcelle,” and thus tho reader has to some extent a guarantee of the writers capability of observation and the expression of his ideas in clear and forcible language. . . . The book is most complete in all details connected with the . 5- • ’ Tbe book is written in a style that will be found interesting both to the intending emigrant and the general reader. 6 , .... Fkom the York Herald.” In these days of excitement and speculation it is well to have some reliable guide, written—as the book now before us is—from porsonal observation, and with a desire to nothing extenuate, or aught set down in malice,” but with the laudable object of giving the benefit of the authors individual experience in “The Diamond Diggings ” to those who are contemplating a visit to South Africa. The work before us is full of interest, effectively written, abounding with valuable information ; and we venture tosav will well repay those who peruse its paues. J From the Yorkshire Gazette.” .... Will be Perused with pleasure by all who delight in the romantic life of a wanderer in Africa. 1 he book contains much that is now ; it is well written, and whilst it affords pleasuro and amusement, it spreads throughout its pages much valuable information. From the Globe, May 20, 1872. A brief, interesting, and practical account Amusing sketches of life and character at the diggings.