150 LOWER JAW. Is believed to be developed by several centres wbich unite very early, there being probably one principal centre appearing about the 5th week for each lateral half, and secondary centres appearing a little afterwards for the coronoid process, the condyle, the angle, and the inner side of the alveolar arch. But the bone is formed so early, - before any bone except the clavicle, - and so rapidly, that it is impossible to determine exactly its earliest condition. The greater part of the bone is formed in the fibrous tissue investing Meckel's cartilage, but the part near the symphysis is developed in the anterior extremity of this cartilage, while the condyle and a part of the ramus near the angle are developed from another mass of cartilage. UPPER JAW. Probably from five primary centres and two secondary ones. One of the primary centres, appearing about the 8th week, forms the premaxillary portion. Four others, appearing much about the same time, form in succession the facial portion, the back part of the alveolus, the orbital plate, and the palate process. These four latter parts speedily unite, when two secondary centres appear for the nasal and malar processes. The greater part of the bone is completed by the 10th week. The suture between the greater part of the bone and the intermaxillary portion persists till middle life, at least on the palatal aspect of the bone. The antrum appears about the 4th month of foetal life ; it is the first of the nasal sinuses to be formed. MALAR BONE. The upper & larger part of the bone is developed from a centre which appears near the orbital margin about the 7th week; the lower & smaller part is developed from a centre which appears a little later near the lower margin. These two parts | usually join together about the 5th month, but are sometimes separate at birth, - a condition which recalls the permanent separation seen in some of the Quadrumana. A third centre is sometimes found in the posterior border. PALATE BONE - One centre, at junction of horizontal and vertical plates, 7th or 8th week. LACHRYMAL BONE - One centre, 8th week. NASAL BONE - One centre, 8th week. VOMER - One centre, near upper border, 8th week. From this centre two lateral plates are developed from above downwards, one on either side of the median cartilage. These plates unite gradually into one ; and by the age of puberty, the ossified septum presents a mere groove on its antero-superior border, HYOID BONE. Six centres: - Two for the body appearing about the 8th month, one for each greater cornu appearing a month later, and one for each lesser cornu appearing some months after birth. The cornua join with the body, the greater ones towards the middle of life, the lesser ones in advanced age.—The stylo-hyoid ligament is frequently ossified in part of its extent. FRONTAL BONE. Ossified from two centres in orbital arches, 7th or 8th week, from which ossification extends both upwards into the forehead and backwards into the orbit. The two halves of the bone are joined by a suture during the first year, and by osseous union from below upwards usually during the second. Four secondary centres sometimes make their appearance. There may be one for the nasal spine. There may be one for the internal angular process, where the latter articulates Avith the lachrymal bone. Lastly, there may be one at the lower end of the coronal suture on either side: this centre may join, not the fronal bone, but either of the three other bones - parietal, sphenoid, or temporal - which go to make up the pterion junction ; or it may remain ununited, I constituting what is called the pterion ossicle.