74 INNER SURFACE of BASE of SKULL Presents three fossae. ANTERIOR FOSSA - The highest. Formed by orbital plates of frontal, cribriform plate of ethmoid, lesser wings and front part of upper surface of body of sphenoid. Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones, and in median line and from above downwards and then backwards: Front part of groove for superior longitudinal sinus, Frontal crest, Foramen ccecum, Crista galli, A slightly elevated ridge. On the side of the two latter is the Olfactory groove deep in front, where it'is formed by cribriform plate of ethmoid, and presents Three rows of foramina for olfactory nerves, Slit-like opening for nasal nerve, Anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina for nasal nerve and aute- rior & posterior ethmoidal arteries. MIDDLE FOSSA — Vide next Tablet. POSTERIOR FOSSA - The deepest. Formed by occipital, petrous & mastoid portions of temporal and posterior inferior angle of parietal, and bounded in front by dorsum sellae & superior border of petrous bones, and behind, by grooves for lateral sinuses. Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones, and in the centre : Foramen magnum for cord and its membranes, spinal accessory nerves & vertebral arteries. In Front of the Foramen Magnum is the Basilar groove, which supports medulla oblongata & pons, and on the sides of which are the petro-occipital sutures, which are grooved in front for inferior petrosal sinuses and expanded behind into jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius. Behind the Foramen Magnum is the Internal occipital crest, which separates the two Inferior occipital fosses, and ends in the Internal occipital protuberance, which is situated at point of junction of the Grooves for lateral sinuses, and to which corresponds the torcular Herophili. On the Sides of Foramen Magnum are the Anterior condyloid foramina for hypoglossal nerves, and, occasionally, the Posterior condyloid foramina for a small vein to lateral sinus; yugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius, of which the Anterior or inner part, smaller and separated from the remainder by a bouy ridge, transmits anteriorly the inferior petrosal sinus, and posteriorly the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric & spinal accessory nerves, while the Posterior part, larger, transmits the internal jugular vein; , Posterior surface of petrous portion of te?/iporal bone presenting Internal auditory meatus for facial nerve and auditory artery & n., Slit-like aperture of Aqueducius Vestibuli for small artery & vein and a process of dura mater.