118 THE FEMUR The largest, longest, & strongest bone of the skeleton; slightly oblique downwards & inwards, especially in female. I'resents: UPPER EXTREMITY — Presents: Head - Forms nearly two-thirds of a sphere, and looks upwards forwards & inwards. Presents a little Depression for ligamentum teres. below & behind its centre a small circular Neck - Flattened from before backwards, expanded inferiorly, thicker above than below, bounded by the intertrochanteric lines. Longest & most inclined in youth; shorter and more horizontal as age advances, especially in female. Presents: ANT. SURFACE - Continuous with anterior surface of shaft, perforated by numerous vascular foramina. Posterior Surface - Concave, rather broader; gives attachment externally to posterior part of Upper Border - Short, thick, horizontal. capsule of hip-joint. Lower Border - Longer, thinner, oblique downwards & backwards to lesser trochanter. Greater Trochanter - Large, quadrilateral, most prominent posteriorly. Presents: Outer Surface - Presents Oblique line extending downwards & forwards, for gluteus medius; - the surface is smooth below & behind this line for a bursa, and sometimes rough above & in front for some Inner Surface - Presents the of the flbre3 of gluteus medius Digital or trochanteric fossa for obturator externus. Upper Border - For obturator internus & gemelli in front, & pyriformis behind. Lower Border - Marked externally by a rough Horizontal ridge for vastus externus. Anterior Border - Rough above & externally for gluteus minimus, below & internally for vastus externus. On its inner side towards its middle is a rough prominence, the Tubercle of tlie femur, which marks point of meeting of gluteus minimus, vastus externus and obturator internus & gemelli (Gray), and is continued inferiorly into the Anteriorintertrochanteric line, less prominent than the posterior, oblique downwards & inwards, rough for front part of capsule; joins inferiorly with superior internal prolongation of Posterior Border - Longer, more prominent; continued inferiorly into the linea aspera. Posterior intertrochanteric line prominent, oblique downwards & inwards to lesser trochanter; Linea quadrati for quadratus femoris. presents towards its middle the upper extremity of the Lesser Trochanter - Smaller, conical, for psoas; lies at lower inner & back part of neck, at point of meeting of posterior intertrochanteric line, lower border of neck, and superior median prolongation of linea aspera. LOWER EXTREMITY — Expanded, broad from side to side. Presents posteriorly the deep Intercondyloid Notch - Which separates posteriorly the condyles, which latter are joined in front by patellar portion of their articular surface. Inner Condyle - The longest, narrowest, most curved, and most prominent inferiorly when the bone is held vertically; presents: Inner tuberosity, more prominent than the external; gives attachment to internal lateral Tubercle, for tendon of adductor magnus, at upper & back part; ligament of knee-joint. Depression for inner head of gastrocnemius, above & behind articular surface; Outer rough surface forming part of intercondyloid notch, & giving attachment anteriorly to posterior crucial ligament Outer Condyle - The shortest, broadest, least curved, & most prominent anteriorly; presents : Outer tuberosity, less prominent than the internal; gives attachment to external lateral liga- &> oblique groove for popliteus, below & externally; ment of knee-joint; Depression for outer head of gastrocnemius, above & behind articular surface; Inner rough surface forming part of intercondyloid notch, and giving attachment posteriorly to anterior crucial ligament. ARTICULAR SURFACE — Is divided anteriorly into a patellar & two tibial portions by two slightly depressed posteriorly converging lines, of which the one that bounds the patellar portion internally is continued backwards along outer & front part of inner condyle, so as to cut off an additional narrow tract from inner side of intercondyloid notch. Patellar Portion - Occupies front of condyles, is trochlear in shape, broadest, highest & most prominent externally, and presents a slight prolongation backwards along inner side of intercondyloid notch; it is this prolongation that articulates during flexion of knee joint with the small facet on posterior aspect of inner border of patella (Lenoir, Goodsir). Tibial Portion - Covers the slightly flattened under surfaces & the posterior rounded surfaces o" the condyl SHAFT — Nearly cylindrical, convex forwards & outwards, enlarged & flattened from before backwards below. Presents Surfaces - Three; all broadest below: Anterior - For subcrureus & inner part of crureus; covered below by upper pnrt of capsule of External - For outer part of crureus: covered bv vastus externum knee-joint Internal - For vastus internus. Borders - Three : Posterior, or Linea aspera - Very prominent; for vasti. adductors lonsus, brevis, magnus, & short head of biceps; trifid above, bifid below, presenting therefore five prolongations: Superior External - To great trochanter, for vastus externus, gluteus maximus & upper part . of adductor majmns; Superior internal - To inner side of neck, where it joins with anterior intertrochanteric line, for upper part of vastus internus; Superior Median - To lesser trochanter, for iliacus, pectineus & upper part of adductor brevis; Inferior External - To upper & back part of outer condyle, for vastus externus, short head of biceps, plantaris, & outer head of gastrocnemius; Inferior Internal - Faintly marked where it is crossed by femoral artery, to upper & back part of inner condyle, for vastus internus, adductor magnus & inner head of *gastroc- nemius. -These two latter prolongations embrace a triangular surface, which supports INTERNAL - From inner side of neck to front of inner condyle; the popliteal vessels & nerves- SxTERNAL-From front of great trochanter to front of outer eondyloid.-both rounded & faintly marked i.