54 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE-lst Tablet. Forms the whole of upper jaw by its union with its fellow. Assists in forming: Roof of mouth, floor & outer wall of nose, floor of orbit ; Zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fossce ; Spheno-maxillary & pterygo-maxillary fissures. May be described as presenting a body and four processes, malar, nasal, alveolar & palate. BODY— Hollowed out to form Antrum of Highmore. - Presents: OUTER SURFACE — Convex. Presents from within outwards & backwards: Incisive or myrtiform fossa for depressor alae nasi, Canine fossa, large & deep for origin of levator anguli oris & compressor nasi; at upper part of which fossa is thsj Infra-orbital foramen for infra-orbital vessels & nerve; Vertical ridge, which descends from malar process, and behind which is the Maxillary tuberosity, which is rough along its posterior border for articulation} with the palate bone & sometimes with pterygoid process of sphenoid, j IN NER SURFACE — Divided into two unequal parts by palate process. PART ABOVE PALATE PROCESS - Presents from before backwards the Inferior turbinated crest, above and below which are Two wide antero-posterior grooves, which form part of middle & inferior j meatuses, and the former of which is surmounted by the} Superior turbinated crest, which lies on inner surface of nasal process; A deep groove which is converted into nasal duct by articulation with la- chrymal & inferior turbinated bones ; Aperture of Antrum of Highmore very large in disarticulated bone but diminished in articulated skull by ethmoid, lachrymal, inferior turbinated & palate bones, and presenting inferiorly a fissure into which is received the maxillary process of the palate bone. A rough surface which articulates with palate bone and is divided into an anterior & a posterior portion by a Vertical groove, which forms part of posterior palatine canal. PART BELOW PALATE PROCESS-Forms anterior part of roof of mouth. UPPER SURFACE — Forms greater part of floor of orbit, and is bounded : On Inner Side - By a thin edge which articulates from before backwards with lachrymal bone, os planum & orbital process of palate bone. On Outer Side - By a rounded margin which forms part of spheno- maxillary fissure. in Front - By lower part of circumference of orbit. - It presents behind Infra-orbital groove for infra-orbital vessels & nerve, which groove becomes con- verted in front into: Infra-orbital canal; - and at its anterior & inner part a Depression for inferior oblique muscle. Antrum of Highmore or Maxillary Sinus - is a large cavity hollowed out of body of the superior maxillary bone. Its walls correspond to the three surfaces of the body of the bone; they are very thin, and contain the infra-orbital & ant .& post, dental canals. Its aperture communicates with the middle meatus of the nasal fossse, and is much diminished in size, and generally divided into two by articu- lation with ethmoid, lachrymal, inferior turbinated & palate bones. Several laminse of bone project into its cavity, as do also the roots of the 1st & 2nd molar teeth, which sometimes perforate its floor.