THE FIBULA — 1st Tablet. Very slender, and of about the same length as the tibia. Inclined downwards & forwards, convex posteriorly, convex internally below. Presents a shaft & two extremities. .SHAFT — Presents four borders & four surfaces. - (For classical description, see next Tablet). Borders - Are: Antero-external - Usually called anterior. Well marked & prominent. Commences at front of head. Descends along upper 3-4ths of the bone, slightly deviating outwards inferiorly, and bifurcates below to embrace the triangular subcutaneous surface above external malleolus. It gives attachment to the septum between the extensor muscles & the peronei. Ameko-internal, or Interosseous Bidge — Lies close to the preceding, espe- cially at the upper part of the bone, where it is sometimes rather in- * distinct. It inclines inwards inferiorly, and blends, in the lower l-4tb of the bone, with the oblique line, with which oblique line it ends at apex of triangular rough surface above articular facet of external malleolus. Postero-external - Usually called posterior. - Well marked & prominent. Extends from styloid process to inner lip of groove on posterior border of external malleolus, being directed, in succession, outwards, back- wards, backwards & inwards. It gives attachment to the septum between the peronei & the flexor muscles. Postero-inteknal, or Oblique Line - Commences at inner side of head, most marked in upper & middle parts of the bone. Blends in lower fourth with the antero-internal border or interosseous ridge, with which latter it ends at the apex of the triangular rough surface above articular facet of external malleolus Surfaces-Are: Anteuiok - Very narrow above, rather broader & slightly grooved below; for extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis peroneii3 tertius. External - Broad, more or less grooved for peronei. Looks in succession for- wards & outwards, outwards, backwards & outwards, and is continued inferiorly into the groove on back of external malleolus. Internal - Comprised between the antero-internal border or interosseous ridge and the postero-internal border or oblique line, and exists only in the upper 3-4ths of the bone. Bather narrow, but less so than the anterior surface, slightly grooved for tibialis posticus. Posterior - Comprised between the postero-external border & the obiique line. Broad, looking inwards below; for soleus & flexor longus pollicis. Presents towards its middle the nutrient foramen, which is directed downwards. UPPER EXTREMITY, Or HEAD — Small, pyramidal. Rough in front, externally, & behind respectively tor; per^neus longus &> anterior ligament of superior tibio-fibular artic- ulation ; tendon of biceps, &* long external lateral ligament of knee-joint, soleus, &> posterior ligament of superior tibio-fibular articulation. Prolonged upwards externally into the Styloid process, for short external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Presents internally a small Articular facet looking upwards & inwards, which facet articulates with outer tuberosity of tibia. LOWER EXTREMITY, or EXTERNAL MALLEOLUS — Rather larger thar head, flattened from within outwards, and descends lower than interi malleolus. Presents Surfaces : Outer - Subcutaneous, convex, prolonged upwards between the divisions the antero -external border Inner - Presents: Above & in Front - Articular facet for astragalus, triangular with base upwards, convex from above downwards, surmounted by small facet for tibia, above which is a rough triangular ii pression for interosseous li^am^nt of mf. tib.-fib. «r*i -i:latior Below <5r* Behind - Hough & deep depression for posterior fasciculus external lateral ligament of ankle-joiut Borders: Anterior - Thick & rounded, for anterior fasciculus of external lateral ligJ ment of ankle-joint Posterior - Broader, and marked by a groove for tendons of peronei. Apex - Bounded, for middle lasciculus of external lateral ligament of ankle-joint.