{Continued from page 165.) blackboard, - will have noticed how easily in such cases the eye loses its bearings. Something very similar is found to occur in regard to the grasp by the mere memory of a number of dates or other symbols. The fact, to the Author's mind, should involve the condemnation of all kind of mere memory work. But if such work has to be done as in " getting up '.' the series of numerals here presented,* it will be found a great relief to have a means of segmenting the series, so to speak, by some kind of rallying points. Such rallying points are most conveniently supplied in the present case by the several dates referring to the sphenoid. This bone has its dates of ossification most widely scattered, indeed practically covering the whole ossification period. The Author would press that, in regard at least to the ossification of the skull, this bone should first be thoroughly learnt, and then the dates referring thereto carried mentally throughout the entire series of dates presented by the other bones, f But of the whole thing may it not be asked, Cut bono % That the dates of union with the shaft of the epiphyses of certain of the long bones, more particularly those of the lovver limb, are important in surgery, is of course evident. But this is a point which should come in, it is submitted, in connection with the customary clinical remarks on joint-excisions and on the separation of epiphyses. Such remarks deal with dates very roughly given. Is there any real advantage in the greater precision with which the matter is dealt with in connection with the question of ossification ? It is believed not. And is there any real advantage to the practitioner in extending the detailed investigation to all the bones of the body ? It is also believed not. "Where are the surgeons of any standing who could correctly go through the entire series of the dates of oss'fication, or even any considerable portion thereof ? Rather are not those who can accomplish such feat at a real disadvantage in regard to becoming surgeons in the proper sense of the term ? Such must have had their attention turned away for long periods from observing in any true sense, and riveted on mere mechanical rem mbering. It is believed that the dates referring to the short and flat hones have been more than sufficiently presented in the first instance. The accompanying diagrams have been very skilfully drawn for the Authors by Mr. Sidney Maynard Smith, of St. Mary's Hospital. * But has it to be done ? Referring to such an all-important structure as the spine, it will be admitted that everybody should know that the lateral centres of the vertebrae appear before the central centres, that the two halves of the vertebral arches are joined to each other before the arches are joined to the bodies, &c. ; but would even the most insatiable crammer maintain that there is anything to be gained by getting up all the thirty dates given on pages 176 and 177 ? t The temporal bone comes next to the sphenoid in the special respect referred to ; and its dates might be similarly utilised.