130 THE METATARSAL BONES. Long hones with shrift & two extremities. COMMON CHARACTERS: Shalt - Prismoid, concave inferiorly, slightly tapering towards digital end. Present: Dorsal Surface - Triangular, pretty well marked behind, but reduced to a move border in greatest part of its extent, covered by extensor tendons. Lateral Surfaces - Divided by a ridge into two parts for plantar & dorsal interossei. Tarsal Extremity or Base - The largest; cuboid. Presents : Dorsal & Plantar Surfaces - Rough, the former of which is the largest. Posterior & Lateral Surfaces - Artie, with bones of tarsus & adjoining metatarsal bg. Digital Extremity or Head - Smaller, compressed from side to side. Present*: Ant. or Articular Surface - Rounded, extending farther backwards below than above. Lateral Surfaces - Depressed; present a prominent tubercle for lateral ligament of* corresponding metatarso-phalangeal articulation. Plantar Surface - Narrow ; grooved for flexor tendons. Dorsal Surface - Narrow & flat. PARTICULAR CHARACTERS: FIRST METATARSAL BONE — The shortest & much the thickest. Shaft - Very thick & strong. Tarsal Extremity - Presents a large semilunar facet for internal cuneiform, but hns no lateral articular facets. It is prolonged below & externally into a prominent tubercle for tendon of peroneus longus. Digital Extremity - Large & broad. Presents inferiorly two grooved facets for sesamoid bs. SECOND METATARSAL BONE — The longest; received posteriorly into the recess Tarsal Extremity - Presents. between the three cuneiform bones. Tarsal Facet - Triangular, for middle cuneiform. Lateral Facets — Three :- One internal for internal cuneiform; two external for ex- ternal cuneiform & 3rd metatarsal. These two latter facets are often divided into upper & lower halves by a rough horizontal groove for an interosseous ligt. THIRD METATARSAL BONE - A little shorter. Tarsal Extremity - Presents: Tarsal Facet — Triangular, for external cuneiform. Lateral Facets - Two : - One internal & one external for 2nd & 4th metatarsal bs.; the former facet is often divided into upper & lower halves by an interosseous groove. FOURTH METATARSAL BONE — The shortest but one. Tarsal Extremity - Presents: Tarsal Facet - Quadrilateral, for cuboid. Lateral Facets - Three : - One ext. for 5th metatarsal, two int. for 3rd metatarsal & ex- ternal cuneiform; the facet for the external cuneiform being sometimes absent. FIFTH METATARSAL BONE - The shortest. Tarsal Extremity - Presents: Tarsal Facet - Triangular, cut obliquely forwards & inwards, for cuboid; Lntemal Lateral Facet - For 4th metatarsal; Prominent External Tubercle - For peroneus brevis. N.B. —The foregoing characters supply the three points requisite to place the bones in position, and therefore to distinguish between right bones and left bones. THE PHALANGES. Fourteen ; three, which are smaller than corresponding phalanges of hand, to the four outer toes, two, which are larger than corresponding phalanges of hand, to the big toe. Are long bones, and present; Shaft - Slightly curved inferiorly, compressed from side to side & narrowed towards middle. Convex from side to side on dorsal surf.; flat on plantar surf., which is very n:ir. row & bounded by tAvo prominent margins for attachment of sheaths of flexor tendons. - The shaft is longer in first or proximal phalanges than in second, in I second than in third. It is exceedingly short in second phalanges of 4th & 5th toes. Proximal Extremity - The largest. Presents: In First Row - Oval, concave, articular surface, broadest from side to side. In Second & Third Rows - Two lateral concavities & a median ridge. Distal Extremity - The smallest. Presents: In First & Second Rows-A trochlear surface prolonged farther backwards below than above. In Third Row - A rough hnrsA.shnP! sha.nad eminence on plantar surface.