41 PETROUS. PORTION of the TEMPORAL BONE. Pyramidal, directed forwards & inwards and wedged in between the sphenoid & the basi- lar process of the occipital. Presents i Base — its exposed part presents the Meatus auditorius extermis, the lower part of which is surrounded by the Auditory process, to which is attached the cartilage of the pinna. Apex — Presents the Internal orifice of the carotid canal; and forms the posterior & outer boundaries of the foramen lacerum medium. Ant. Surface — Forms posterior boundary of middle fossa of base of skull, and presents from before backwards & outwards the: Internal orifice of the carotid canal. Depression for Gasserian ganglion, Hiatus Fallopii with a groove leading to it, both for large superficial petrosal nerve and petrosal branch of middle meningeal artery, and near which hiatus are frequently seen Tzvo or three other small foramina for small superficial petrosal nerve, petrosal branch of glosso-pharyngeal & branch of glosso-pharyngeal to large superficial petrosal nerve. Eminence corresponding to the superior semi-circular canal, on the outer side of which is a Depression corresponding to the cavity of the ty?npanum. Post. Surface — Forms anterior boundary of posterior fossa of base of skull, and presents: Meatus auditorius interims for facial nerve and auditory artery & nerve; Opening of Aqueductus Vestibuli for small artery & vein to vestibule & a process of the dura mater. Inf. or Basilar Surface — Presents in a diagonal line from before backwards & outwards: Rough surface for origin of levator palati & tensor tympani; Inferior orifice of carotid canal; Vaginal process which embraces root of Styloid process^ which gives attachment from above downwards to the stylo-pharyngeus, -hyoideus & -glossus muscles, and to the stylo-hyoid & -maxillary ligts., Stylo-mastoid foramen for facial nerve & stylo-mastoid artery. - Behind & on inner side of the carotid canal & vaginal process are the Jugular surface, which articulates with jugular process of occipital, and the Jugular fossa for sinus of internal jugular vein, which fossa assists in forming jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius, and has near to it: Opening for Arnold's nerve, on its outer wall, Opening for Jacobson's nerve, in front, on bony ridge between it & carotid canal, Opening of Aqueductus Cochlea, in front & to inner side, close to posterior border of the petrous bone. Borders — Three: Superior - Grooved for superior petrosal sinus & attachment of tentorium cerebelli. Posterior - Grooved in front for inferior petrosal sinus; presents jugular fossa behind. Anterior - Its inner part articulates with spine of sphenoid; its outer part is joined by a suture to the squamous portion of the bone. In the angle of junction of these two portions are found the Canal for the tensor tympani muscle above, and the Osseous portion of the Eustachian tubebelow, on the outer side of which latter opening is the Canal of for exit of chorda tympani.