159 OSSIFICATION of the SPINE-2nd Tablet. ATLAS. TWO Lateral Primary Centres - Near articular processes, 7th week; for lateral masses & posterior arch. - These centres correspond to the lateral centres of the other vertebras. The two halves of the posterior arch unite during 3rd year, their union bein°" fre- quently preceded by the appearance of a median spinal centre. _ The Atlas having no body, has no central primary centre; the anterior arch re- mains therefore as a simple band of cartilage for a considerable time. It is ossified sometimes by extension of osseous tissue from the latei-al masses, at other times from either one central or two lateral secondary centres appearing in ] st year. When ossified separately, the anterior arch joins with the lateral masses in 5th or 6th year. AXIS. Three Centres for Body - Two lateral and one median ;* the two former appearing in 7th or 8th week for lamina & processes; the latter appearing in 6th mouth for lower part of body. Three Centres for Odontoid Process - Two lateral, & one median. The former for lower part of the process, 6th month. - These centres unite before birth into a bi-lobed conical mass deeply cleft above, which joins with body during 3rd year. The latter, for apex, appears in the 2md year in the wedge-shaped piece of cartilage which fills up the cleft, and joins the remainder of the process about the 12th year, SEVENTH CERVICAL VERTEBRA - Anterior part of transverse process is developed from a separate centre which appears about 6th month ; it joins posterior part'and body between 5th & 6th years. Sometimes this portion of the bone remains separate, and, extending outwards, developes into a cervical rib. The anterior part of the other cervical transverse processes is usually ossified by extension of osseous tissue from lateral primary centres. Additional centres, but appearing much later, have however been observed in the sixth & even the fifth vertebras (Meckel). LUMBAR VERTEBR iE - Two additional centres for tubercles on back of superior articular processes {mammillary tubercles). The transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra is sometimes developed from a separate centre, and may then remain permanently unconnected with the rest of the bone, forming a lumbar rib. Or two median, which speedily unite (see pp. 154 & 155).