See page 52. THE TEMPORAL BONE. Is situated at side of base of skull, and articulates with parietal, occipital^ sphenoid', malar & inferior maxillary bones. Is divided into squamous, mastoid & petrous portions. SQUAMOUS PORTION - Presents outer & inner surfaces and circumference. Outer Surface — Convex, forms part of temporal fossa and presents lower part of temporal ridge behind, zygomatic process in front, and glenoid fossa below. ZYGOMATIC PROCESS — First projects outwards, and is broad & flattened from above downwards. It then twists forwards and presents: Borders - upper long & thin for temporal f.; lower short & thick for masseter. Surfaces - outer convex, inner concave also for masseter. Apex - Serrated, articulates with malar bone. Base - Presents three roots: * Anterior - Wide & transversely directed forming eminentia ariicularis; Middle, or post-glenoid tubercle - Forms posterior boundary of glenoid fossa; Posterior - Forms origin of temporal ridge. GLENOID FOSSA — Is comprised between anterior & middle roots of the zygoma, and presents the Glaserian Fissure - For processus gracilis of malleus, laxator tympani m.* & tympanic artery, and divides the fossa into Anterior part - Articular, and covered with cartilage which is prolonged over the eminentia articularia. Posterior part - Non-articular, bounded behind by vaginal & auditory processes & middle root of zygoma. Inner Surface — Concave. Presents cerebral impressions, and grooves for middle meningeal artery. Circumference — Thin above and behind, where it is bevelled internally and articulates with parietal; thick in front, where it is slightly bevelled externally and articulates with great wing of sphenoid. MASTOID PORTION — Presents outer & inner surfaces and borders. Outer Surface — Rough; presents: * Mastoid foramen for a vein to lateral sinus, and is prolonged into Mastoid process for insertion of sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis & trachelo-mastoid, and on the inner side of which is the Digastric groove for origin of posterior belly of digastric, and further inwards the Occipital groove for occipital artery. Inner Surface — Forms part of posterior fossa of base of skull and presents descending portion of Groove for lateral sinus. Borders - Post. & Sup. — Thick & serrated for posterior inferior angle of parietal and lower border of occipital. PETROUS PORTION — Vide next Tablet.