70 UNDER SURFACE of BASE of SKULL. Is bounded from before backwards by: Alveola)' arch 6° teeth of upper jaw ; Lower border of malar bone, zygoma 6° imaginary line from zygoma to mastoid process; Superior curved line of occipital bone. Grouping points of interest on under surface of skull, the latter may be said to present from before backwards: Roof of Mouth ; Posterior Aperture of Nares : Under Surface of Basilar Process, on each side of which is a Quadrilateral Space, the angles of which are formed by the C0x\dyle of the occipital bone, and by the Pterygoid, Zygomatic and Mastoid Processes. Under Surface of Remain ing Part oj Occipital Bone. ROOF OF THE MOUTH Is formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & horizontal plates of palate bones, and is bounded laterally & in front by alveolar arch. Is concave, uneven & marked by a crucial suture, and presents from before backwards & outwards: Lower opening of anterior palatine canal, into which may be seen to open, laterally Foramina of Stenson for anterior palatine vessels, and in middle line, Foramina of Scarpa for naso-palatine nerves; A groove leading to Posterior palatine fora??ien for post, palatine vessels & ant. or great palatine n.; Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati; Accessory or small palatine foramina, posterior 6° external, for posterior or small, and the external palatine nerves. POSTERIOR APERTURE OF THE NARES Is bounded by body of sphenoid, horizontal plate of palate bone, and inner plates of pterygoid processes, which latter present inferiorly Hamular process for reflection of tendon of tensor palati, and superiorly, Scaphoid fossa for origin of that muscle. Is divided iuto two by vomer, and presents inferiorly Posterior nasal spine for origin of azygos uvulae, and superiorly Expanded alee of vomer, which articulate with rostrum & with vaginal processes of sphenoid, and on either side of which are Pterygopalatine canals formed in part by sphenoid & in part by palate bones, and giving passage to pterygo-palatine vessels & nerves. UNDER SU/1FACE OF THE BASILAR PROCESS Presents i;i middle line Pharyngeal stine for median raphe & superior constrictor of pharynx, and laterally, Rough depressions for insertion of recti capitis antici major & minor. QUADRILATERAL SPACE—v. next Tablet. UNDER SURFACE OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE (Remaining Part) —Pre- sents: Foramen magnum for cord & its membranes, vertebral arteries & spinal accessory nerves, on outer side of which foramen are Condyles of occipital bone having Jugular process on their outer side, Anterior condyloid foramen in front, Posterior condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by the posterior condyloid foramen behind. Ext. Occipital Crest giving off laterally Superior 6° Inferior curved lines, and ending posteriorly in External occipital protuberance, For parts just mentioned see Occipital Bone.