THE SACRUM. Consists of five vertebrae blended together, sometimes of six, occasionally of four. Broad, thick, triangular, slightly curved, inclined downwards & backwards from promontory ; broadest, least curved & most oblique in female. Presents: - ANTERIOR SURFACE — Concave from above downwards along whole or part of its extent, slightly concave from side to side. Presents from the middle line outwards: - Bodies of the Five Vertebrse separated by Four Ridges. - The* bodies are flattened, and they diminish in size from above downwards. The ridges, which mark the original separations between them, lead laterally to the Four Anterior Sacral Foramina. - These look forwards & outwards, diminish in size from above downwards., and are prolonged externally into Four Broad & Shallow Grooves, - Which grooves give attachment to the pyri- formis muscle, as do also the Three Prominent Ridges, - Which separate them from each other. These grooves & these latter ridges lie upon a portion of the bone some- times called the lateral mass, which portion is formed by the blending of what are sometimes called the anterior transverse processes; these anterior transverse processes corresponding to the lumbar transverse processes & also to the external tubercles of the inferior dorsal transverse processes. POSTERIOR SURFACE — Narrower, convex, uneven. Presents from the middle line out- wards: - Three Or Four Tubercles - Corresponding to the three or four upper sacral spinous processes (the lower ones remaining undeveloped), which tubercles are usually more or less blended into one prominent median ridge. A Longitudinal Groove - Corresponding to the laminae. - These lamina) are broad & well developed superiorly, but they are nearly undeveloped inferiorly, where they merely assist in forming the lateral boundary of the inferior aperture of the sacral canal. A Series of somewhat Indistinct Tubercles - Corresponding to the articular processes. The two lower tubercles blend together, and form, on either side oi the inferior aperture of the sacral canal, the sacral cornua, which cornua articu- late with the cornua of the coccyx. Four Posterior Sacral Foramina - Smaller & less regular than the anterior ones. A Series Of Eminences - Which are sometimes called the posterior transverse processes, and which correspond to the accessory tubercles on the back of the lumbar transverse processes & to the inferior tubercles on the back of the few lower dorsal transverse processes. - Between these latter eminences & the median tubercles is compi*ised the sacral groove for origin of erector spina?. LATERAL SURFACES — Broad above, where they present anteriorly the Auricular Surface -Ear-shaped, covered with cartilage for articulation with ilium, - and posteriorly Several Deep & Rough Impressions - For posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. - In- f'eriorly the lateral surfaces become contracted into a Thin Border - For sacro-sciatic ligaments & gluteus maximus muscle. This border, after presenting the prominent Inferior Lateral Angle, - is depressed into a Deep Notch - For anterior division of 5th sacral nerve, which notch is further deep. ened by the vicinity of the transverse process of the first piece of the coccyx, and is even transformed sometimes into a complete foramen by the articulation of this transverse process with the border of the sacrum. BASE — Broad & expanded, and looks upwards & forwards. Presents the body, pedicles, notches, laminae, foramen, spinous, anterior & posterior transverse, & articular processes of the first sacral vertebra: - Body - Forms part of promontory or sacro-vertebral angle. Foramen - Large, triangular; forms superior aperture of sacral canal. Anterior Transverse Processes - Expanded into a broad flat triangular surface continuous with iliac fossa. Posterior Transverse Processes - Form two pointed eminences on the outer side of the articular processes. Articular Processes - Similar to the superior articular processes of the lumbar ver- vertebrae, but farther apart. APEX — Curves downwards & forwards, and presents the small oval under surface of body o' last sacral vertebra, which under surface articulates with corresponding part of first piece of coccyx. SACRAL CANAL — Large & triangular above, small & flattened below, where its posterior wall is rendered incomplete by the non-development of the spines & laminae of the one or two last sacral vertebrae, into it open laterally both the anterior & the posterior sacral foramina.