113 THE INNOMINATE BONE — 2nd Tablet. ISCHIUP/E — The lower, posterior & thick part. Bounds obturator foramen below & behind, and presents body, tuberosity & ascending ramus. Body - Presents three surfacps & three borders: Outer Surface - Presents from above downwards: A little more than 2-5ths of the acetabulum comprising the greater part of the central non-articular depression ; Lower part of rim of acetabulum with a portion of the cotyloid notch ; Deep groove for passage of tendon of obturator externus ; Posterior part of circumference of obturator foramen for obturator externus & adductor magnus. Inner Surface - Forms lower part of lateral boundary of true pelvis & posterior part of circumference of obturator foramen. It gives origin to obturator internus, presents two or three larpre vascular foramina, and is grooved inferiorly for passage of pudic vessels & nerve. Posterior Surface - Quadrilateral, smooth, broadest above, supports the pyri- formis, obturator internus, & gemelli. Anterior Border - Thin; for obturator membrane. Outer Border - Thick & short. Inner Border - The longest. Presents from above downwards : Lower part of great sacro-sciatic notch. - This notch is converted by lesser sacro-sciatic ligament into great sacro-sciatic foramen, which foramen transmits from above downwards: Gluteal vessels S° superior gluteal nerve; Pyriformis mztscle ; Sciatic artery, greater dj* lesser sciatic nerves, pudic vessels dr» nerve, & nerve to obturator internus ; Spine of ischium - For lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, gemellus superior, coccygeus, & posterior fibres of levator ani. Lesser sacro-sciatic notch - Coated with fibro-cartilage, and converted by both sacro-sciatic ligaments into lesser sacro-sciatic foramen for obturator internus muscle, its nerve, and pudic vessels & nerve. Tuberosity - Corresponds to lower and back part of body, and maybe described as presenting: Outer Lip - For gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, & adductor magnus. Inner Lip - For transversus perinaei, crus penis or clitoridis, erector penis or cli- toridis, & anterior or falciform prolongation of great sacro-sciatic ligament. Interspace - Presents four rough surfaces : rl wo Anterior or Inferior separated by a prominent ridge, the external, for the adductor magnus; the internal for the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Two Postei'ior or Superior separated by a rough line oblique downwards & outwards, the external (the most superior of the two), for semimembranosus ; the internal (the most inferior of the two) for common tendon of semitendinosus & long head of biceps. Ascending Ramus - Thin & flattened; passes upwards & inwards, bounding obtura- tor foramen inferiorly, and joins with descending ramus of pubes. Presents: Outer Surface - Rough, for gracilis, obturator externus & adductor magnus. Inner Surface - Smoother, for obturator internus. Upper Border - Thin & sharp, for obturator membrane. Lower Border - Rough, thick; everted, especially in the female; for gracilis, crus penis or clitoridis, erector penis or clitoridis, transversus perinEei, deep perineal fascia deep layer of the superficial fascia.