164 TABLEAU of the OSSIFICATION of the LONG BONES. SHAFT — One centre, from a little before middle to a little after end of 2nd montn : - Clavicle & Femur, first - 5th & 6th week. Metacarpal, Metatarsal Bones, & Phalanges, last - 8th or 9thweeJc. At birth, all the shafts are ossified in the greater part of their extent. EPIPHYSES — One centre for each, except: - Femur - Two additional centres for trochanters. — ~ - Humerus Four additional centres for greater tuberosity, condyles, & inner portion oj trochlea. The metacai-pal & metatarsal bones (except the first)*have their epiphysis at their distal or phalangeal extremity; the first metacarpal & first metatarsal bones and the phalanges have their epiphysis at their proximal extremity; the clavicle has its epiphysis at its sternal extremity. Dates of Appearance of the Epiphyses. At Birth - Lower ep. of femurj Upper ep. of tibia. 1st Year - Upper ep. (head) of femur; Upper ep. (head) of humerus (1st or 2nd year). 2nd Tear - Lower eps. of tibia, fibula, & radius (Radius, 2nd or 3rd year), Capitellum & outer portion of trochlea of humerus (2nd or 3rd 3rd Year - Greater tuberosity of humerus ,• [year). 4th Year - Upper ep. of fibula; Greater trochanter of femur; Lower ep. of ulna (4th or 5th year). 5th Year - Upper ep. of radius; Lesser tuberosity & inner condyle of humerus. IOtii Year - Upper ep. of ulna (tip of olecranon). 11th or 12th Y. - Inner portion of trochlea of humerus. 13thor 14thY. - Lesser trochanter of femur; Outer condyle of humerus. 18th OR 20th Y. - Sternal end of clavicle. 3rd to 8th Y. - Eps. of the metacarpal & metatarsal bones, & phalanges. Dates of their Union with the Shaft. 16th Year - Upper ep. of ulna. 16th or 17th Y. - Outer condyle, & the two porticns of inferior articular surface of [humerus (loth or 17th year). 17th Year - Lesser trochanter of femur. 1 7thor 18th Y. - Upper ep. of radius; 18th Year - Inner condyle of humerus. Greater trochanter of femur. 18th TO 21st Y. - Eps. of metacarpal, and metatarsal bones, & phalanges, and [lower ep. of tibia. 19th Year - Head of femur. 20th Year - Lower eps. of femur, radius, ulna, & fibula, and upper ep. of [tibia. 21st Year - Upper ep. of humerus. 25th Year -Upper ep. of fibula, & sternal end of clavicle. In the upper limb, the epiphyses which enter into the formation of the elbow-joint, and towards which the respective nutrient foramina are directed, ossify later than the opposite epiphyses, but they unite earlier with the shaft. In the lower limb, the epiphyses which enter into the formation of the knee-joint, and from which the respective nutrient foramina are directed, ossify (except in the case of the upper epiphysis of the fibula) earlier than the opposite epiphyses, but they unite later with the shaft-