88 THE SCAPULA—IstlTablet. Large, flat, triangular, situated at back of shoulder, and presents two surfaces, three borders, three angles. ANTERIOR SURFACE or VENTER — Concave; forms subscapular fossa, which fossa is deepest at upper & outer part, and presents from within outwards: narrow marginal surface for serraius magnus, which surface becomes broader & triangular opposite the superior & inferior angles; rough oblique ridges converging upwards & outwards for tendinous intersections of sub- scapulars j rounded prominent ridge descending from neck of scapula; deep vertical groove for lower part of subscapulars. .POSTERIOR SURFACE or DORSUM — Divided bv ^meinto: Supkaspixous Fossa - The smaller, smooth, broadest internally, for supraspinatus. Infuaspinous Fossa - The larger, slightly convex towards middle, concave on either side. Presents internally a few oblique ridges for tendinous intersections of infraspinatus, and externally a rough aponeurotic ridge, which cuts off a prominent marginal surface divided in two by an oblique line & crossed by a groove lor dorsalis scapulae artery, which surface gives origin in its narrow upper two-thirds, to the teres minor, and in its lower & broader third, to the teres major & occasionally to some of the fibres of the latissimus dorsi. The Spine - Is a prominent triangular plnte, which crosses obliquely the dorsum of the scapula towards its upper part, and which is continued into the acromion. It presents: Surfaces: Upper &= Lower - Concave, forming part respectively of the supra- & infra- spinous fossae. Borders: Anterior - Continuous with the remainder of the bone. Posterior - Broad & thick. Commences internally by a triangular smooth surface covered by tendon of insertion of trapezius ; gives attach- ment externally to this surface, to trapezius by its upper lip, to deltoid by its lower lip. External - Concave, rounded; lost above upon under surface of acro- mion, below upon neck of scapula. Acromion Process - Overhangs glenoid cavity, and is flattened & somewhat trian- gular. It presents: Surfaces : Superior — Rough for attachment of deltoid & trapezius. Inferior - Concave & smooth, separated by a bursa from capsule of shoulder joint. Borders: Outer & Inner - For deltoid & trapezius, the latter presenting a small oval facet for clavicle. Apex - Gives attachment to the coraco-acromial ligament.