121 THE TIBIA Prismoid, expanded above, slightly enlarged below, twisted inwards interiorly, oblique downwards & outwards in female. 1'resents: UPPER EXTREMITY or HEAD — Broad from side to side, and formed by inner & outer tuberosities which tuberosities correspond to & support condyles of femur, and are separated by a slight notch both in front & behind. Presents : Upper Surface - Presents the two condyloid surfaces, oval & slightly elongated from before back- wards, and separated from each other by the spine and by two rough triangular depressions situated one in front of the spine & the other behind it. Internal Condyloid Surface - The longest, narrowest, & deepest. External Condyloid Surface - The shortest, broadest, & shallowest. &P1NE - Surmounted by two prominent tubercles formed by the prolongation backwards & out- wards, and forwards & inwards, respectively, of the internal & external condyloid surfaces. ANTERIOR ROUGH Depression - The largest; gives attachment from before backwards to anter- ior extremity of internal semilunar flbro-cartilage, anterior crucial ligament, anterior extremity of external semilunar fibro-cartilage. POSTERIOR ROUGH Depression - Rather smaller; gives attachment from before backwards to posterior extremities of external & internal semilunar fibro-cartilages & to pos- terior crucial ligament. Outer Surface - Presents outer surface of outer tuberosity, which tuberosity is the most prominent of the two, and is marked posteriorly by a small circular Facet looking downwards, outwards & backwards, for fibula. Inner Surface - Presents inner surface of inner tuberosity, which tuberosity, the less prominent of the two, gives attachment to internal lateral ligt. of knee-joint, and is marked by a Groove for insertion of one of the tendons of semimembranosus. Anterior Surface - Presents a large rough triangular surface, perforated by numerous vascular foramina, broad above, ending interiorly in the Tubercle of the tibia rough interiorly for ligamentum patella?, smooth superiorly for a bursa. Posterior Surface - Presents the posterior aspect of the tuberosities, which are separated by the Popliteal notch for posterior crucial ligament & part of posterior ligament of knee-joint. The inner tuberosity gives attachment posteriorly to one of the tendons of semi- membranosus & to principal fasciculus of foregoing ligament. LOWER EXTREMITY — Smaller, quadrangular. Presents: Inferior or Articular Surface - Quadrilateral, concave from before backwards, broadest in front, narrowest internally, where it is continuous with outer surface of internal malleolus, marked by a Slight antero-posterior elevation separating two Shallaiv lateral-depressions. Anterior Surface - Broad, convex, smooth, covered by tendons of tibialis anticus. extensor proprius pollicis & extensor longus digitorum, and marked inferiorly by a Slight groove for anterior ligament of ankle-joint. Posterior Surface - Rather narrower; presents a Broad shallow groove, oblique downwards & inwards for tendon of flexor longus pollicis. Inner Surface - Prolonged downwards into the Internal Malleolus - Shorter, but rather broader than the external, and presents: - Inner Surface - Subcutaneous, convex; Outer Surface - Articular; deepens internally the articular surface for astragalus. Anterior Border- Rough, for anterior portion of deltoid ligament. Posterior Border - Presents a Broad &> deep groove, oblique downwards <fe inwards, divided by a slight ridge into inner & outer portions for tendons of tibialis posticus & flexor longus digitorum Apex - Rough & slightly grooved for middle portion of deltoid ligament. Outer Surface - Bounded by branches of bifurcation of outer border; presents inferiorly a Narrow concave facet for external malleolus, and superiorly a Rough triangular depression for interosseous ligament of inferior tibio-fibular articula- tion SHAFT — Triangular, expanded above & below, narrowest at junction of middle & l<?wer thirds; presents : Surfaces - Three: Internal - Smooth, convex, subcutaneous, except at upper part, where it gives attachment to tendons of sartorius, gracilis & semitendinosus. EXTERNAL - Excavated in upper two-thirds for origin of tibialis anticus; rounded off 4 curved forwards anteriorly in lower third, where it is covered by tendons of tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis & extensor longus digitorum. Posterior - Presents superiorly a large Triangular surface for popliteus, which surface is bounded below by the Oblique line for popliteus, soleus, tibialis posticus & flexor longus digitorum. Below this line is the Nutrient foramen directed downwards, and a Vertical ridge, which divides middle third of posterior surface into Inner broader portion for flexor longus digitorum, and Outer narrow portion for tibialis posticus ; and then becomes lost inferiorly upon a Smooth surface covered by tendons of tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, & flexoi proprius pollicis Borders - Three: ANTERIOR OR CREST - From tubercle of tibia to anterior border of internal malleolus; curved like an italic S, concave externally above, internally below; very prominent in uppef two-thirds; for deep fascia of leg. INTERNAL - From back of inner tuberosity to posterior border of internal malleolus ; gives attachment to popliteus, soleus & flexor longus digitorum. EXTERNAL, OR INTEROSSEOUS Ridge - From front of fibular facet to apex of triangular rougl surface on outer side of lower extremity, to embrace which it bifurcates inferior!? thin & prominent, especially towards middle