10 THE THREE GROUPS COMPARED SERIATIM. Body — Cervical - Small, broad from side to side. Presents: - Upper Surface - Concave from side to side, & rounded off anteriorly. Under Surface - Convex from side to side, & prolonged downwards anteriorly. Anterior Surface - Situated therefore on a lower level than the posterior Dorsal - Heart-shaped, thicker behind than in front, and has two detni-facets on each side which demi-facets articulate with the heads of the ribs. Lumbar - Large, broadest from side to side, rather thicker in front than behind. Pedicles - Cervical - Arise from lower part of body. Dorsal -Arise from upper part of body. Lumbar - Thick ; arise from upper part of body. Notches "Cervical - The superior ones are the deepest, and somewhat the narrowest. Dorsal - The inferior ones are the deepest and broadest. Lumbar - The inferior ones are the deepest & broadest. Laminae - Cervical - Long & narrow. Dorsal - Short & broad. Lumbar - Short, broad & thick. Foramen Cervical - Large & triangular. Dorsal - Small & round. Lumbar - Triangular, larger1 than in the dorsal, smaller than in the cervical. Spinous Process — Cervical - Projects horizontally backwards, and is short, bifid, & grooved inferiorly. Dorsal - Long, triangular, oblique, and ends in a single tubercle. Lumbar - Thick, quadrilateral, and ends in a rough vertical border. Transverse Processes — Cervical - Short, bifid, grooved superiorly, perforated at their base for passage ol vertebral artery & vein, divided at their apex into anterior and posterior tuber- cles, and situated on the outer side of the pedicles, m front ol the articular processes. Dorsal - Long, thick, obliquely directed outwards & backwards, and situated behind the articular processes 6° the pedicles. Their extremity is enlarged, and presents in front an articular facet for tubercle of corresponding rib. From the back of the extremity of the few lower dorsal transverse proces- ses arise three tubercles, termed external, hiferior, & superior, which tubercles correspond respectively to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and to the accessory & mammillary tubercles found, the former on the back of the transverse processes, the latter on the back of the superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Lumbar - Long, slender, directed transversely outwards, and situated in front of the articular processes, but behind the pedicles, and in a line with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes, to which they correspond. On the back of each, near its base, is a small tubercle the accessory tubercle, which points downwards & inwards, and which corresponds to the inferior tubercles on the lower dorsal transverse processes. Articular Processes - - Cervical - Form a small vertical column. The superior ones look upwards & back. wards, the inferior ones look downwards & forwards. Dorsal - Nearly vertical. The superior ones look backwards & outwards, the inferior ones look forwards & inwards, j Lumuar - Thick, strong & vertical. The superior ones are concave, look backwards & inwards, and are farther apart than the inferior ones, which they embrace. The inferior ones are convex, look forwards & outwards, and are nearer to each other than are the superior ones. On the back of each superior lumbar articular process is a small tubercle, the mai7imillary tubercle, which corresponds to the superior tubercles on the lower dorsal troaipverse processes.