PART OF PREFACE. The whole of the Tablets have dow been revised in the light of modern views. They further appear in pictorial garb, through the generosity of numerous friends, - among whom, Mr. Pickering Pick, editor of Gray's Anatomy, Professors Christopher Heath, Thane, Shafer, Symington, Ellis, Alexander Macalister, Cunningham, Birmingham, Windle, Reid, Mr. Luther Holden, Mr. Henry Morris, Mr. Bland Sutton, Mr. William Anderson, Mr. Davies-Colley, Mr. Frederick Treves, Mr. Walsham, Mr. Makins, Mr. Shattock. Mr. Parsons, and, abroad, Professors Gegenbaur, Schwalbe, Heitzmann, Sappev, Testut, and others, who, as well as the respective publishers, have all kindly permitted the use of already existing plates. In regard to the illustrations, there are here brought together for the first time both the inimitable sketches of the arteries and veins which we owe jointly to Henry Gray and to Dr. Vandyke Carter, and those brilliant pictures of the nervous system by which Hirschfeid & Leveille "placed their country," says Mr. William Anderson, "beyond rivalry in anatomical illustration.'' At the end of each section a " Summary of Practical Points " has been introduced, taken from the Author's "Aphorisms in Applied Anatomy & Operative Surgery."' Cor- responding questions are set at the end of each of the two last volumes. A distinct principle runs through this Edition of the Tablets, - the dissociation, and separate presentation, on the one hand, of the practical, or " dissectional " anatomy, and, on the other, of the " advanced " or " scientific," - or. as it is now authoritatively called (Christopher Heath), " transcendental," - anatomy recently introduced. The former is presented in the Tablets proper. The latter is presented in the Notes on lighter-coloured paper, - these to he re- written from year to year, as may be required. The reader can thus come, on all the newer matter without trouble or loss of time. REVIEWS OF PREVIOUS EDITIONS. " The ' Tablets,' now so thoroughly recognised as the most useful analyses of classified study." - London Medical Record. " A mass of condensed information." - British Medical Journal. " Present a co-ordinate analysis of all the important points in as few words as possible." - Medical Times and Gazette. " In the fewest words and plainest language they contain, in about one-tenth the space, the matter which is found in the most accredited standard works." - Lancet. "For comprehensiveness, conciseness, accuracy, and clearness of expression, they deserve to rank among the best books of the kind." - Aberdeen Medical Student. "The most practically useful compendia we have seen; they place the student en rapport with the latest anthropotomical discoveries ; this information is not found in ordinary text books." - Anthropologia. "We are satisfied of their value. Very condensed ; well divided ; clear and precise." - British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review. " Brief to the utmost limit, and in such a shape as to give the student the best chance of acquiring much anatomical detail with as little labour as possible ; development is so arranged as to make it easy to every student." - Medical Press and Circular. "Mr. Cooke has earned a world-wide fame as an Anatomist, and his anatomical works have received the highest encomiums from the entire medical Press and the chief teachers of anatomy in the United Kingdom." - Students' Journal and Hospital Gazette. REVIEWS OF THE "APHORISMS IN APPLIED ANATOMY," NOW LARGELY INCORPORATED WITH THE TABLETS. "Of a more than usually practical character." - Journal of Laryngology. "Of considerable use." - Lancet. " We are very pleased indeed with the Aphorisms ; Mr. Cooke thoroughly understands the requirements of the medical student." - Students' Journal and Hospital Gazette. "Betray the experienced teacher ; the information given is of a kind which no candidate for examination could possibly do without; the questions at the end are exceedingly good." - British Medical Journal. "Of all the works of this class we have met with, none equals this in practical utility and conciseness; should be in every student's hand." - Medical Press and Circular. " An ideal synopsis. We can most highly recommend the work to every student preparing for his final examination; we have little but praise for the book." - The Hospital. " The work of one of our ablest anatomical teachers." " A necessity to all." - Asclepiad. "No more useful book can be placed in the student's hand." - Provincial Medical Journal.