tion of a small fibrous band or ligament normally present, which, when ossified, bounds what is called the carotico-clinoidforamen.* On the outer and back part of the body of the sphenoid, between it and the greater wing, and forming the outer boundary of the cavernous groove, is a small process or tongue of bone recently termed the lingula (Jingula, diminutive of lingua, tongue), which is interesting through its being developed from a small special centre recently discovered. The dorsum sella;, or back of the saddle sella, sellce, saddle), is sometimes called the dormm-ephippii. which means practically the same thing (ephippium, ephippii, covering of a horse, saddle). The posterior aspect of the dorsum sella?, which supports the pons, is sometimes called the clivus (clivus, clivi, an incline). Each side of the dorsum sella? presents at its lower part a small petrosal process, which articulates with the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The crista galli of the ethmoid presents two very similar alar processes (not so large as represented in Figs. 37 & 41) which embrace the foramen ccecum, and articulate with the frontal bone. The old reference to the laxator tympani muscle as traversing the Glasserian fissure has not been removed from the Tablets. There the structure is; with a little care anybody can see it. The question whether it is a muscle or not, has nothing to do, to the Author's mind, with the reference or no reference to it in connection with the description of the temporal bone. Notwithstanding modern views, the Author believes that it is a muscle, or was a muscle, or is sometimes a muscle, - whichever may be the best way of putting it. What is muscle but a higher and revertible condition of tendon ? (See Sutton's exposition of this point, Part II., p. 168a.) Some interest attaches to the midde root of the zygoma. It is now often described as the post-glenoid tubercle, and is the supposed representative of an elongated piece of bone which, in some mammalia, descends behind the condyle of the lower jaw, and prevents its being dislocated backwards during mastication. Sometimes it is not counted as one of the roots of the zygoma, which are then said to be two in number only, instead of three (Quain). At the outer extremity of the anterior root of the zygoma is the tubercle for the external lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation. Interest attaches to the diminutive mastoid foramen, the remnant of an important opening in the foetal skull, through which passed out, at a time when there was no internal jugular vein, the then main vein carrying the blood from the cerebral vesicles, the external jugular. As the internal jugular vein developed, the mastoid foramen and the external jugular vein contracted, the vein becoming, in its upper part, the small posterior auricular vein of the adult. (See Part III., page 284f.) The internal opening of the mastoid foramen may be seen (if not closed) in the fossa sigmoidea, or descending portion of the groove for the lateral sinus. Usually it is the right lateral sinus that is most directly continuous with the superior longitudinal sinus; and so it is with the respective grooves on the anterior or concave surface of the temporal bone. The description of the under surface of the base of the skull given on pp. 70 & 73 is largely due to J. A. Fort, a private teacher of anatomy in Paris in the Author's younger days. It is believed to be the description giving the best groupment of the " trous, degressions, cretes, et surfaces" of this important and interesting part. * A similar tendency to ossification is often visible elsewhere, e.g., converting into a bony canal the groove for the posterior palatine artery on the roof of the mouth. All three clinoid processes are some- times united by bone,