BONES of TARSUS - 1st Row. 126 THE ASTRAGALUS Supports the tibia, rests upon the os calcis, articulates on either side with the malleoli & in front with scaphoid. Is irregularly cuboid, and presents six surfaces. Upper Surface - Presents : Tkochleau Surface - Broadest in front, convex from before backwards, slight- ]y concave from side to side ; in front of which surface is the Upper Surface of the Neck - Eough for ligaments. Under Surface - Presents : Deep Groove - Directed forwards & outwards and broadest in front, for in- terosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament; this groove separates Two Articular Facets - For os calcis;. the posterior one, the largest, is con. cave; the anterior one, the smallest, is convex, continuous with the anterior articular surface and sometimes divided into two parts, ono for lesser process of os calcis, one for calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Inner Surface - Presents: Triangular Articular Facet - Small, continuous with trochlear surface, for in- ternal malleolus; below this facet is a Rough Groove - For deep portion of internal lateral ligament of ankle-joint. Outer Surface - Presents: Triangular Articular Facet - Much larger, concave from abova downwards, also continuous with trochlear surface ; in front of which is a Deep Depression - For anterior fasciculus of external lateral ligament of ankle-joint. Anterior Surface - Forms the Head - Oval, oblique downwards & inwards, & convex for scaphoid, continuous inferiorly with anterior facet of under surface, and supported by a constricted part, the Neck. Posterior Surface - Very narrow, and represented merely by a slight Groove - Oblique downwards & inwards for tendon of flexor longus pollicis. THE OS CALCIS* Irregularly cuboid; presents six surfaces. Upper Surface - Presents from before backwards: Upper Surface of Greater Process - Presenting a rough depresssion for exten- sor brevis digitorum ; Two Articular Surfaces - For astragalus, and an intervening deep groove oblique forwards & outwards, and broadest in front for interosseous calcaneo- astragaloid ligament. - The posterior & external facet is convex, the largest, and situated on the body of the bone. The anterior or inter- nal facet is concave, the smallest, and situated on the lesser process; it is sometimes divided into two. Rough Saddle-shaped Surface - Belonging to the portion of the bone which projects backwards to form the heel. Under Surface - Rough, convex from side to side, widest behind. Presents from behind forwards: Two Tubercles - The internal, the largest, for abductor pollicis & flexor brevis digitorum; the external, the smallest, for abductor minimi digiti. Rough Surface — For outer head of flexor access. & long calcaneo-cuboid ligt. Tubercle & Transverse Groove -For short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. Inner Surface - Concave for passage of vessels, nerves, & flexor tendons. Gives attachment to inner head of flexor accessorius, and is surmounted by the Lesser Process, or Sustentaculum Tali - Which articulates above with the astragalus, is grooved inferiorly for tendon of flexor longus pollicis, and gives attachment by its inner margin to a part of the superficial fibres of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. Outer Surface - Presents towards its middle a Tubercle - For middle fasciclus of external lateral ligament of ankle-joint; and in front of the tubercle, Two Grooves - Separated by a slight ridge for tendons of peronei. Anterior Surface - Concavo-convex for articulation with cuboid; is surmounted ex- ternally by a rough prominent tubercle which is an important guide in Chopart's amputation. Posterior Surface - Rough & broad below for insertion of tendo Achillis & plantaris muscle, narrow & smooth above, where it is covered by a bursa. * See Figs. 146 and 147, p. 134.