110 THE INNOMINATE BONE — 1st Tablet. Large irregular fiat bone, constricted towards its middle, and expanded above & below; so twisted upon itself that its superior expansion is directed inwards pos- teriorly & outwards anteriorly, while its inferior expansion is curved inwards in front as far as the middle line. Consists up to the 13fch or 14th year of three distinct portions, the ilium, ischium & pubes, which portions, though they subsequently unite, are usually described sepa- rately ILIUM — The superior expanded portion. Presents : Outer Surface, Or Dorsum - Convex in front, where it looks downwards & out- wards, concave behind, where it looks downwards, outwards & backwards. Presents the Three Curved Lines, superior, middle, <5j° inferior, which commence respect- ively two inches in front of the posterior extremity of the crest, an inch & a half behind its anterior extremity, & at the upper part of the anterior inferior spinous process, and which converge, the two first towards the upper part, & the third towards the middle of the great sacro-sciatic notch Above, and between these lines are seen the Surfaces of origin of the glutei maximus, medius &* minimus ; G? oove (sometimes a ridge J, for reflected tendon of rectus. - Below this are the Upper part of rim of acetabulum ; Triangular segment of the acetabulum forming nearly 2-5ths of that cavity, which 2-5ths include the greater part of the articular surface. Inner Surface - Presents in front, behind, & below respectively: Internal Iliac Fossa or Venter - Bounded below by the ilio-pectineal line, and presenting inferiorly a nutrient foramen. Sacro-iliac Articular Surface - Which is divided into an Inferior or Auricular Portion - Covered with cartilage, smooth though un- even, and a Superior Rough Portion — For posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Portion op Inner Surface of True Pelvis - Corresponding to upper part of acetabulum. Upper Border or Crest - Convex from before backwards, curved like an italic /, concave externally behind, where it is thickest, convex externally in front, where it is also very thick, divided into: Outer lip for latissimus dorsi, obliquus externus, tensor va- ginae femoris & fascia lata. Inner lip for erector spinas, quadratus luinborum & trans- versalis; Interspace for internal oblique. Anterior Border - Long, concave, nearly vertical; presents from above downwards : Anterior superior spine for Poupart's ligament, sartorius, tensor vagina?. f'emoris & iliacus I Notch for lower fibres of sartorius, and exit of external cutaneous nerve; Anterior inferior spine for straight tendon of rectus ; Broad shallow groove for exit of psoas & iliacus. Posterior Border — Shorter, more horizontal. Presents ■ Posterior superior spine for erector spinas & oblique sacro-iliac ligament; Slight notch ; Posterior inferior spine for part of great sacro-siatic ligament; Uj>jt>er part of great sacro-sciatic notch.