171 Added after completion (otherwise) of Part I. A GRAPHIC PRESENTATION OF SOME OF THE PRINCIPAL DATES OF THE APPEAEANCE OF THE SEVERAL CENTRES OF OSSIFICATION, AND OF THEIR UNION. It is the Author's distinct experience that by far the easiest and most certain way to learn the centres of ossification, - with their dates of appearance and their dates of uuion, - is by repeatedly going over them, in proper succession, on the actual bones, - mainly on the articulated humerus, radius, ulna, - or femur, tibia, fibula, as the case may be,-the base of the skull, the spine on catgut, &c., - perhaps marking their situation with a piece of chalk, and, of course, distinctly rehearsing the corresponding weeks, months, or years.* The following diagrams will be found to assist the student in this exercise. They are rough presentations of the bones above referred to, with the situations as above marked in numerical order, and briefly described. They will further guard him against a real danger. They will prevent his getting out of count, so to speak, and thus learning the dates wrong, and then having them to unlearn and learn again. Anyone who has attempted to count a number of objects very much alike, - say a number of railings surrounding an enclosure, or a number of similar chalk marks on a (Continued, p. 178.) * It will be seen that, in the matter of ossification, to know one's dates is practically to have mastered the entire subject. Any knowledge of Bone-Development worth speaking of must rest on familiar acquaintance with its chronology - with some hundred and fifty or two hundred dates of events which no ordinary student can witness, and having absolutely no connection one with the other. What the feat of memory involved in acquiring such familiarity must amount to may in a measure be judged of by comparison with the relatively quite simple matter, - difficult, however, to many, - of learning the surfaces and facets of the fifteen carpal and tarsal bones. Any help must be welcomed here;