7.3 QUADRILATERAL SPACE. Is formed by the under surfaces of the occipital bone and of the squamous & petrous por. tions of the temporal 2nd of the greater wing of the sphenoid, and is situated on either side of the basilar process, It is quadrangular. ITS ANGLES Are formed by the Condyles of the occipital bone and by the Pterygoid, Zygomatio & Mastoid processes. (Vide these parts in respective Tablets.) It is divided in two by a well marked diagonal line obliquely directed from before back- wards & outwards, arid presents points of interest both in front of & behind its diagonal line. ITS DIAGONAL LINE Extends from the root of the pterygoid to the mastoid process, and presents from be- fore backwards & outwards the Foramen lacemm medium closed by cartilage, and crossed superiorly by the internal carotid artery & the Vidian nerve; Rough surfacefor origin of levator palati & tensor tympani; Inf. orifice of Carotid Canal; Vaginal process; Styloid process, which gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid & -maxillary liga- ments and from above downwards to the stylo-pharyngens, -hyoideus & -glossus muscles: Stylo-mastoid foramen for facial nerve & stylo-mastoid artery. IN FRONT & on the OUTER SIDE of the DIAGONAL LINE Are found from before backwards & outwards the Foramen ovale for inferior maxillary & small petrosal nerves and small menin- geal artery, and on inner side of which is sometimes found the Foramen Vesalii for a small vein; Foramen Spinosum for middle meningeal artery; Spine of the Sphenoid for internal lateral ligament of jaw & laxator tympani m. Openings of the canal for the tensor tympani muscle (above) &= of the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube (below J. Glenoid fossa divided by Grla^erian fissure into Anterior part, covered with cartilage which latter is prolonged over the emimentia articularis; Posterior part non articular, and bounded behind by the vaginal & au- ditory processes and the middle root of the zygoma. BEHIND & on the INNER SIDE of the DIAGONAL LINE Are the : Jugular fossa for internal jugular vein. This fossa assists in forming the Jugular foramen or Foramen Lacerum posterius, of which the Anterior or inner part, smaller and separated from the remainder bv a bony ridge, transmits anteriorly the inferior petrosal sinus, and posteriorly, the glosso-pharyngeal, pnenmo-gastric & spinal accessory nerves, while the Posterior part, the largeT, transmits the internal jugular vein; Jugular process for rectus capitis lateralis & lateral occipito-atloid ligament. This process has in front of it & to its inner side the Anterior condyloid foramen for hypoglossal nerve j behind it & to its inner side Ih* Posterior condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by paste, tor condyloid foramen tor J J a small vein to lateral sinus. Openings for Jacobson's & Arnold's nerves, and opening of Aqueductus Cochlea