129 BONES of TARSUS - 2nd Row. THE SCAPHOID*- Present,: Anterior Surface - Convex, broadest externally; presents three triangular facets for the cuneiform. Posterior Surface - Concave, for head of astragalus, also broadest externally. Circumference - Rough, convex above, concave below. Presents below & inter- nally a tubercle, for tendon of tibialis porticus; and sometimes externally a facet, for cuboid. THE CUBOID — Presents: Articular Surfaces - Three s Anterior - Presents two facets, inner, smaller, quadrilateral for 4th metatarsal, outer, larger, triangular for 5th metatarsal. Posterior - Quadrilateral, concavo-convex for os calcis. Internal - Presents towards middle & upper part a large anterior facet for external cuneiform ; and sometimes behind thi* a ^ smaller posterior facet for scaphoid. - The remainder of this surface is rough for ligaments. Non-Articular Surfaces - Three: Superior - Eougb, oblique downwards & outwards. Inferior - Presents from before backwards : deep groove oblique forwards & inwards, which transmits tendon of pero- neus longus, and is bounded behind by a prominent ridge for long calcaneo-cuboid ligament, which ridge begins externally in a prominent tubercle presenting a small facet for a sesamoid bone; rough surface for short calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and part of the flexor brevis pollicis. Outer - A mere border notched by commencement of peroneal groove. THE CUNEIFORM BONES Three, wedge-shaped, & six sided. All three present COMMON CHARACTERS: Dorsal Surf. - Quadrilateral, and rough for ligaments. Looks obliquely in- wards in the internal cuneiform, in which bone it also presents a small groove or facet for tendon of tibialis anticus. Plantar Surf. - Rough rounded border in the two outermost. In the inner- most it is a broad rough surface marked behind by a tubercle for the tibialis posticus. Posterior Surf. - Triangular & concave from above downwards. They artic- ulate with the three facets on anterior surface of scaphoid, and lie in the same transverse line. Anterior Surf. - Triangular in the two outermost, kidney-shaped in the innermost; they articulate with the bases of the three innermost metatarsal bones. These surfaces present an indented outline : the middle cuneiform being shorter than the two others, its an- terior surface is depressed. Lateral Surf. - Articulate with each other, the cuboid, both sides of the base of the 2nd metatarsal bone & the inner side of the base of the 4th; the lateral surfaces of the 3rd cuneiform presenting each of them two facets, and the adjoining surfaces of the 1st & 2nd presenting a facet angular in shape & running along the superior & posterior borders. The inner surface of the internal cuneiform is a mere rounded border. DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERS BETWEEN THE THREE BONES. First -Largsize, irregular form, anterior kidney-shaped surface, facet for tibialis anticus, tubercle for tibialis posticus. Second - Small size, square-shape of dorsal surface, angular articular facet along the upper & back part of its inner surface. Third - Intermediate size, two facets on both of its lateral surfaces. BETWEEN THE BONES OF THE TWO SIDES — Are evident in the case of the first & second cuneiform. To have the three points necessary to place the third one in position all that is requisite is to remark that the ant. internal facet is rather larger than the ant. external * See Fig. opposite, and also Fig'. 148, p. 134.