114 THE INNOMINATE BONE — 3rd Tablet. > The anterior & inner part. Bounds obturator foramen above & in front, and pre- sents body, horizontal ramus & descending ramus. Body — Quadrilateral, flattened from before backwards & outwards, and presents: Anterior Surface — Rough, slightly excavated, giving origin to the adductor longus immediately below the crest, and, lower down, to obturator externus, adductors brevis & magnus, & upper part of gracilis. Posterior Surface - Smooth, convex from above downwards, concave from side to side, givi?ig attachment to obturator internus, levator ani, and pubo-prostatic ligaments or anterior true ligaments of bladder. Upper Border - Presents from within outwards the Angle -In front of which the inner pillars of external abdominal ring de- cussate with each other (as they do also in front of symphysis) ; Crest - To which are attached, anteriorly the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique & transversalis, and posteriorly the rectus & pyramidal is; Spine - For Poupart's ligament & outer pillar of external abdominal ring; Commencement of ilio-pectineal line, for conjoined tendon, G-imbernat's liga- ment & the triangular ligament. Inner Border - Presents a rough oval facet, which forms part of symphysis. Outer Border - Thin, for obturator membrane. Horizontal Ramus - Is far from being horizontal, since it forms part of the brim of the true pelvis, which brim is inclined at an angle of about 60° with the horizontal. Presents: TJppfr Surface - Presents from within outwards : Triangular surface for origin of pectineus, behind which surface is the Continuation of the ilio-pectineal line already mentioned; Ilio-pectineal eminence, which supports brim of acetabulum, and gives attach. ment to psoas parvus when that muscle exists. Under Sukface - Presents a Groove oblique forwards & inwards for obturator vessels & nerve, which groove is bounded internally by a Sharp margin forming part of circumference of obturator foramen. Posterior Surface - For upper fibres of obturator internus; forms part of ante- rior boundary of true pelvis. Outer Extremity - Forms about l-5th of the acetabulum. Descending Ramus - Thin & flattened; passes downwards & outwards, and joins with ascending ramus of ischium. Presents Anterior Surface - Rough, for adductors brevis & magnus, obturator externus & gracilis. Posterior Surface - Smoother, for obturator internus. Inner Border - Rough, thick; everted, especially in the female; for gracilis, crus penis or clitoridis, erector penis or clitoridis, compressor urethras, deep pei inoeal fascia, & deep layer of the superficial fascia. Outer Border - Thin & sharp, for obturator membrane.