32 THE THORAX in GENERAL. Conical with convex walls and axis oblique downwards & forwards; broadest below & from side to side; bounded by dorsal portion of spine, ribs, costal cartilages & sternum. Presents for examination: - OUTER SURFACE — Convex. Presents : - Anterior Aspect - Oblique downwards & forwards, 8| inches in height. Presents sternum, costal cartilages, & front part of ribs, which latter present their anterior angles disposed in a line oblique downwards & outwards. Posterior Aspect - Twelve inches in height, depressed centrally, convex on either side. Presents : - In Middle Line - Spines, vertebral grooves, transverse processes, costo-transverse articulations; - Laterally - Prominent convexity of posterior part of ribs, which convexity in- creases in breadth from above downwards, and is bounded externally by the posterior angles of the rib3 disposed in a line oblique downwards & outwards. Lateral Aspect - Oblique, rounded, thirteen inches in height, most convex posteriorly. In length the ribs & the costal cartilages increase from the 1st to the 7th, and decrease from the 8th to the 12th; the intercostal spaces increase from the 1st to the 5th only, and then decrease from the 6th to the 11th. The width of the ribs & intercostal spaces decreases from the 1st to the last, the width of the latter being greatest in front. The degree of obliquity of the ribs increases from the 1st to the 9th, and decreases from the 9th to the 12th; .it is most marked behind. SUPERIOR APERTURE or APEX — Narrow, heart-shaped, oblique downwards & for- wards, bounded by the sternum, first dorsal vertebra, first rib & first costal cartilage. INFERIOR APERTURE or BASE — Expanded from side to side, widest towards middle, and, from before backwards, diminished behind by.prominence of body of last dorsal vertebra, and greatly increased in front by being prolonged upwards & for- wards between the asternal ribs & their cartilages as far as the ensiform appendix. INTERNAL CAVITY — Broadest from side to side, narrowed from before backwards in middle line, and partly divided posteriorly into two, by the incomplete septum formed by bodies of vertebrae, on either side of which bodies it is prolonged backwards so as to form two deep grooves widest below.