SCAPULA-2nd Tablet. BORDERS - Three: Superior - The shortest & thinnest. Presents externally the suprascapular notch converted by the transverse ligament into to forameu for suprascapular nerve; - and gives origin just internally to thfS notch to the omo-hyoid muscle. External or Axillary - The thickest. Presents just below glenoid cavity a rough depression for long head of triceps, and below this the vertical groove above mentioned for lower part of subscapularis. Internal or Vertebral, or Base - The longest, thin, prominent opposite root of spine. Presents: anterior lip for serratus magnus; posterior lip for supra- & infraspinati • interspace for levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor, and aponeurosis & fibrous arch of rhomboideus major. ANGLES - Three: Superior - Thin, prominent, for a few fibres of the levator anguli scapulae & supraspi- natus, and the two first digitations of the serratus magnus. Inferior - Thick, rounded; gives attachment posteriorly to the teres major & occa- sionally to some of the fibres of the latissimus dorsi, and anteriorly to the four lower digitations of the serratus magnus. Anterior or External - Forms the head & the neck of the scapula. HEAD — Presents the Glenoid Cavity - Oval with longest diameter vertical, and with broad inferior & narrow supei-ior extremities, the latter giving attach- ment to the tendon of the long head of the biceps ; small & shallow, but slightly deepened & enlarged by glenoid ligament, which ligament is attached to the prominent margin of the cavity. NECK — Flattened from before backwards, and most distinct behind. Is surmounted by the OoRACOin Process - First thick & broad, and passes upwards & in- wards, being flattened from before backwards, and presenting internally a rough depression for conoid ligament. It then be- comes smaller, passes forwards & outwards, and is flattened from above downwards; this terminal portion presents: under surface, smooth & concave; upper surface with rough oblique ridge for trapezoid ligament; anterior or inner border for pectoralis minor; posterior border for coraco-acromial ligament; apex for common tendon of coraco-brachialis & of short head ofbioepy.