96 THE RADIUS Is smaller & shorter than than the ulna, and is smaller above than below. Presents: UPPER EXTREMITY — The smaller. Presents: Head - Cylindrical laterally and cup-shaped above. The cup articulates with the capi- tellum of the humerus, and its inner & broader edge articulates with the groove between the capitellum & the trochlea. The inner & broader part of the cylindi'ical surface articulates with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, the outer narrower part plays upon the orbicular ligament. Neck — Is the constricted & rounded portion, which suppoiiis the head. It presents posteriorly a slight ridge for supinator brevis. Tuberosity - Lies at the lower, inner & front part of the neck. It is rough behind for insertion of biceps, and smooth in front, where it is covered by a bursa. LOWER EXTREMITY — Lai-ge, thick, quadrilateral, and presents an inferior surface, articular, and four lateral surfaces, of which the inner one is also articular. Inf. Articular Surface - Triangular, concave, divided by a slight antero-posterior ridge into an outer, larger, triangular portion for scaphoid, and an inner, smaller, quadrilateral portion for semilunar. Int. Articular Surface, or Sigmoid Cavity - Narrow, concave, articulates with head of ulna. Ant. Surface - Exoavated; gives attachment to pronator quadratus. Its lower pro- minent margin gives attachment to anterior ligament of wrist-joint. Ext. Surface - Is prolonged downwards into the Styloid Process - Thick & conical; gives attachment at its base to supinator longus, at its apex, to external lateral ligament of wrist-joint. On its outer surface is a shallowgroove, oblique downwards & forwards and divided into two by a slight ridge, which groove transmits the extensores ossis meta- carpi & primi internodii pollicis, both of which are enclosed in one synovial sheath. Post. Surface - Convex, gives attachment below to posterior ligament of wrist-joint, and presents from without inwards a broad & shallow groove divided into two by a slight ridge, which groove transmits the extensores carpi radialis longior & brevior, both enclosed in one synovial sheath; narrow deep groove for extensor secundi internodii pollicis & a synovial sheath; broad shallorv groove for extensores indicis & communis digitorum both enclosed in one synovial sheath; half-groove completed internally by head of ulna, for extensor minimi digiti & a synovial sheath. SHAFT ~ Slightly concave anteriorly, small & rounded above, larger & pi-ismoid below. Pre- sents: Surfaces - Three: Anterior - Narrow & concave in upper three-fourths for flexor longus pollicis, broad & concave in lower fourth for pronator quadratus. Presents nutrient foramen a little above its middle. Posterior - Narrow & rounded above for supinator brevis; broad & convex below. Gives origin towards its middle, where it is rough & slightly concave, to exten- sor primi internodii pollicis & to some of the fibres of the extensor ossis meta- carpi. External - Rounded & convex. Gives attachment above to supinator brevis and presents towards its middle a rough impression for pronator radii teres. Borders - Three • Anterior - From front of bicipital tuberosity to front of base of styloid process. Is prominent above, where it forms the oblique line, and gives attachment to the supinator brevis, flexor sublimis digitorum & flexor longus pollicis; is sharply marked below for pronator quadratus. Posterior - From back of neck to back of styloid process; is most distinct in its middJo third. Internal - From back of tuberosity to sigmoid cavity, to embrace which it o^i-cates inferiorly. Gives attachment to the interosseous ligament, and is sharpest towards its middle.