154 TEMPORAL, Ten centres, exclusive of those for the internal ear, as follows:— Squamo-Zygomatic Portion, - One. Tympanic Portion, - One. Petro-Mastoid Portion, - Six. Styloid Process, - Two. The centre for the squamo-zygomatic portion, which is ossified in membrane, appears in the lower part of the same about the 7th or 8th week. The centre for the tympanic portion appears in the lower part of the same about the 3rd month; the tympanic portion is an imperfect ring deficient in its upper fourth, and grooved on its inner surface for the attachment of the membrani tympani. The six centres for the petro-mastoid portion appear about the 5th or 6th month: two belong to the mastoid portion; four belong to the petrous portion, and surround the labyrinth (see below). The two centres for the styloid process are one for the base (tympano-hyal portion of the process), which appears before birth, - and one for the rest of the process (stylo-hyal portion), which appears after birth. The tympanic portion joins with the squamo-zygomatic before birth. The squamo- zygomatic and petro-mastoid portions join together about the end of the 1st year, though not completely, a portion of the cleft between them remaining as the Glaserian fissure. About the same time the tympano-hyal portion of the styloid process is joined to the petrous bone The rest of the process joins with the remainder of the bone at puberty only, or not at all. The mastoid process, first quite flat, begins to protrude about the second year: but its cells are not formed till puberty. NOTES ON THE NEWER POINTS. Of the labyrinthic centres, the first to appear is a nucleus on the promontory (opisthotic), which spreads round the fenestra rotunda, and forms the portion of the petrous bone below the internal auditory meatus and fenestra ovalis. The second (prootic) appears over the superior semicircular canal, and forms most of the petrous bone seen in the interior of the skull, as well as the upper and inner part of the mastoid portion : it forms the upper boundaries of the internal auditory meatus and fenestra ovalis. A little later a third nucleus (epiotic), which is occasionally double, is developed in con- nection with the posterior semicircular canal, and extends into the lower part of the mastoid portion (Huxley). According to Sutton, the tegmen tympani and covering of the external semicircular canal are formed by a separate ossification (pterotic), appearing about the same time as the prootic. According to Huxley, there would also be a separate centre in connection with the common cms of the superior and posterior semicircular canals ; and according to Vrolik there would be another for the roof of the cochlea (Quain). What can the medical practitioner, as such, have to do with the details of laby- rinthic centres, opisthotic, prootic, epiotic, pterotic, with the pterion ossicle, and so forth ? Is it not plain that we are on the wrong track, educationally, when such details find their way into text-books for students,and are thus presented as subjects of examination? It is mere " crammed" knowledge. - sham knowledge masking real ignorance, - that must result from such conditions. And is there, or not, another centre to be added henceforth for such important structures as the vertebral bodies? - and is there yet another to be added for the spinous