16S MUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of LOWER LIMB-lst T. The muscles attached to the INNOMINATE BONE — Are thirty-two in number, and are attached as follows: - Ilium - Thirteen: - Gluteus Maximus - Superior curved line on dorsum ilii and rough surface between it & posterior fifth of crest. Gluteus Medius -Dorsum ilii & outer lip of crest between superior & middle curved lines, Gluteus Minimus - Dorsum ilii between middle & inferior curved lines. Rectus Femoris (Refected Tendon) - Groove above brim of acetabulum. (Straight Tendon) - Anterior inferior spine. Iliacus - Iliac fossa & inner lip of crest. Sartorius - Anterior superior spine & upper half of notch below it. Tensor Vagince Femoris - Anterior superior spine & anterior fifth of outer lip of crest, Obliquus Externus - Anterior half of outer lip of crest. Latissimus Dorsi - Posterior half of outer lip of crest. Internal Oblique - Anterior two-thirds of middle lip of crest. Transversalis - Anterior.three-fourths of inner lip of crest. QuadraticsLumboruvi - Posterior part of inner lip of crest for abont two or three inches in front of erector spina?. , Erector Spines - Posterior superior spine & posterior fifth of inner lip of crest. Ischium - Fourteen: - Gracilis - Inner margin of ascending ramus. Adductor Magnus - Ascending ramus & outer side of tuberosity. Obturator Externus - Circumference of obturator foramen. Transversus Perinezi - Inner & fore part of tuberosity. - Erector Penis or Clitoridis - Pubic arch & fore part of inner side of tuberosity. Obturator Interims - Whole of inner surface of true pelvis in front of and behind obi „ „ „ , . . turator foramen. /Gemellus Superior ^ levator Ani > - Spine. Coccygeus ) Gemellus Inferior - Upper part of outer lip of tuberosity. Quadralus Femoris - Whole length of outer lip of tuberosity. Biceps (Long Head) - Lower & inner of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity. Scmitendinosus - Lower & inner of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity. Semimembranosus - Upper & outer of the two surfaces on back part of tuberosity. Pubes - Twelve:- Pectincus - Uio-pectineal line & surface in front of it. Adductor Longus - Front of body immediately below the crest & close to angle. Adductor Brevis - Front of body for about two inches below adductor longus & between „77 T , ,. gracilis & obturator externus. Adductor Magnus -Lower part of descending ramus. Gracilis - Inner mai'gin of ramus & lower half of inner margin of body. Obturator Externus - Circumference of obturator foramen. Obturator Internus - Whole of inner surface of true pelvis in front of & behind ob- turator foramen. Rectus abdominis ~\ Pyi amidalis > - Crest. Conjoined Tend, of Int. Oblique & Transv. ) Tevator Ani - Back of body.