Fig. 52. (Gray, later Eds.) ments, - epicranial aponeurosis in the one case, temporal fascia at its continuance with the pericranium in the other), - and a lower one, superior curved line proper, inferior temporal ridge (for the muscular attachments given in the Tablets). It is admittedly undesirable to present any but well-accepted views in a book for beginners. But so much has been made, in this connection, of the tendencies of the day,-"the search after the infinitely little " (Sir Dyce Duckworth), - that it may be well to put the student on his guard, even at the earliest stage of his studies, against accepting without verification much of the newer matter now found in text-books. Figures 31, 46, and 81, or their equivalents, have been before anatomists of every country, and of every age since drawing was called in to aid anatomical work, and they have never been objected to until lately as being in any way incorrect. Comes, however, a theory giving prominence to fasciae generally (a point dealt with in some detail in Part II., page 108a), and, with this theory, new ligaments, and new markings (or supposed markings) on the bones themselves ; and new figures showing these come to displace the older ones. Will the reader take the trouble to verify on the bones he is studying, which set of figures appear to him nearest to truth? It is significant that at least two leading authorities, Quain and the editors of "'Morris's Anatomy," have retained the old figure of the side view of the skull.* It is remarkable how, now-a-days, some people seem to adopt everything that is new without asking a question. In matters of common observation, newness of statement should, to the Author's mind, rather create the impression that the view is merely the expression of a theory : the scientist has usually seen, and pictured, what he wanted to see. The evil is closely connected with present methods of teaching. On the outer and front part of the body of the sphenoid, just externally to the olivary process, and internally to the front part of the cavernous- groove, there is often found a small middle clinoidprocess, which is not unfrequently connected to the anterior clinoid process by a small spicula of bone. This spicula seems to result from the ossifica- * In regard to the frequency of occurrence of the lines referred to, the Author has kindly been per. mitted to go through the collection of skulls in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. He finds that the newly described lines are present in about one skull in five or six.