92 THE CLAVICLE Is usually reckoned as a long bone, though, structurally, it rather resembles a short bone. It is curved like an italic/and is convex anteriorly & rounded in its inner two-thirds, concave anteriorly and flattened from above downwards, in its outer third. INNER Or CYLINDRICAL PORTION — Presents three borders and three surfaces. Borders - Are: Anterior - Continuous with anterior border of flattened portion, and gives attachment to pectoralis major. Posterior - Extends from rhomboid impression to conoid tubercle, and forms posterior boundary of subclavian groove. Superior - Continuous with posterior border of flattened portion, and gives attachment to sterno-mastoid. Surfaces - Are: Anterior - Convex & continuous with upper surface of flattened portion. Is covered externally by platysma, and gives attachment internally to sterno-mastoid & pectoralis major. Posterior - Concave, narrow externally, where it becomes continuous with pos- terior border of flattened portion. Frequently gives origin internally to some of the fibres of the sterno-cleido-hyoid, and presents towards its middle the nutrient canal, which is directed outwards. Inferior-Narrow internally; broader externally, where it becomes continuous with under surface of flattened portion. Presents from within outwards • Articular facet', which articulates with cartilage of first rib, and which is continuous with sternal articular surface; Rhomboid impression for rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament; Subclavian groove for subclavius muscle. OUTER or FLATTENED PORTION — Presents : Borders: Anterior - Thin, concave, for deltoid. Poste rior — Thicker, convex, for trapezius. Surfaces: Superior - Rough, for deltoid & trapezius. Inferior - Presents internally Conoid tubercle for conoid ligament, from which tubercle passes forwards & outwards the Oblique line for trapezoid ligament. INNER Or STERNAL END — Enlarged & triangular. Its articular facet is continuous with the costal facet at inner extremity of inferior surface. It is concave from before backwards and convex from above downwards & outwards; it gives attachment at its upper & back part to the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the sterno-clavicular articulation. - The circumference of the end of the bone, is rough for the anterior & posterior sterno-clavicular & the interclavi- cular ligaments. OUTER or ACROMIAL END — Flattened from above downwards. Presents a small oval facet, which looks downwards & outwards and articulates with acromion. - The circumference of the end of the bone is rough for the superior & inferior acromioclavicular ligaments.