2 In the pages on the Development, two modes of pictorial presentation have been adopted, which may correctly be termed, it is believed, the one, the synthetical (Gray's), and the other, the analytical (Quain's). A graphic presentation of some of the principal dates of ossification has been added. Sincere thanks are offered to the Editors and Publishers of Gray and Quain, to Mr. Bland Sutton, Mr. Henry Morris, and the publishers of Morris's Anatomy, and also to Professor Sappey, for their kindness in allowing the reproduction of the admirable figures of their classical text-books. The senior author is alone responsible for any contentional matter; and, in regard to such matter, has frequently been designated simply "the author." § The labour of merely remembering, - of remembering what one may have been told, or one may have read about, or seen more or less casually, - of remembering so as to give an account of, and perhaps of formulating such account with elegance and precision, - is greatly facilitated by all kinds of graphs. Plates seize upon, and present vividly, the small points, - and diagrams, the abstract points, - that burden the memory. For passing muster at examinations as sometimes conducted, there is nothing like plates. But, mark, it is " verbal knowledge," and " verbal knowledge " only, that is thus conveyed. Take the well-known figure on page 158a, Part III., - the triangles of the neck, - borrowed by kind permission from " Gray's Anatomy.'' Here is half the anatomy of the Head & Neck ; with a few exceptions, muscles, arteries, veins and nerves, all are there, with branches, communications, &c. It requires but a fe v hours to go over them all, and to learn, not only to talk about them, but even to " spot" (!) them at an examination, and perhaps pass, «■ possibly with flying colours. But what has been gained ? Nothing but an evanescent and useless knowledge, much in the nature of many of the wares of the present day made to sell, not for use* - all but useless even for examination purposes.^ These views are developed in Parts II. and IIL § ' • We have been getting our text-books of anatomy more and more crowded every year with statements, - taken largely from the German authors, - which are probably, in the main, correct, but which are of a nature not admitting of their being verified by the dissector. And anatomical teaching, following in the lines of the text-books, is becoming- based more and more, not on the human body as dissected in our dissecting rooms, but on mere book-descriptions." "In this connection the view is earnestly put forward on the strength of long years of experience, and with every confidence of its being supported by all practical authorities, that the man who once gets into the way of trusting to plates and diagrams * "I deprecate all verbal knowledge" iStruthers). See pamphlet on "Specialism in Medical Teaching and Examining-." t See " Conditions leading to Success at Examinations and in After-Life."