MA THE FIBULA — 2nd Tablet. OLD OR CLASSICAL DESCRIPTIONS OF THE SHAFT. There are* in this country two different classical descriptions of the shaft of the fibula ; the one is given by Holden, Quain, & Wilson ; the other by Gray. Both descriptions recognise three borders & three surfaces, and, at first sight, they appeal identical. They are far from being so, however, for of the three borders enumerated in both, there are but two that correspond, viz., the anterior & the posterior (antero- external k postero-external borders of the Author); and of the three surfaces, there is but one, the external, respecting which the descriptions agree. Of the two ridges which exist on the inner aspect of the bone, the interosseous ridge k the obliqiie line (which ridges the Author has described respectively as the antero-internal k postero-interrml borders), the latter ridge is taken as the inner border of the bone by Holden, Quain, & Wilson, while it is the former that is called the inner bolder by Gray. This first & apparently slight difference brings about other & more important discrepancies in the delimitation k designation of the surfaces: - Thus we find on the inner aspect of the born; • An Inner Surface &> a Posterior Surface (Holden, Quain, Wilson); An Anterior Sttrface cV an Inner Surface (Gray) ; Gray's "Inner Surface" surface being however very different from the " Inner Surface'''' of Eoldeu, Quain, & Wilson, as will immediately appear: - Holden, Quain, & Wilson's " Inner Surface ,; - Is the smallest of the three. It is hounded in front by the {interior border of the bono (antoro-external border of the Author), ii.ikI behind by the oblique lino above mentioned. It is divided by the interosseous ridge intp an " anterior portion" for extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis & pgroneus teriius, and a "posteriorportion" for tibialis posticus. Gray's " Inner Surface " - Is on the contrary the largest, and occupies nearly two- thirds of the circumference of the bono; it is bounded in front by the interosseous ridge, behind by the posterior border (postero-external border of the Author). It is divided by the oblique line into an "anteriorportion" for tibialis posticus, (correspond- ing to the " posterior portion " of the former " inner surface" ) and a "posterior portion" for SOleus k flexor longus pollicis. On the other hand Holden, Quain, & Wilson's " Posterior Surface " (and the Posterior Sub- PACE of the Author, for they are identical) - Are but the posterior part of the " Innkr Surface" of Grayj - and Gray's " Anterior Surface" (and the Anterior Surface of tho Author, for they are both the same) - Are but tho anterior part of the " Innkr Surface" of Holden, Quain, k Wilson. It is with the hope of Clearing lip difficulties which have puzzled many, that tho Author has presented a third & original description of tho shaft of the fibula, and that he has ventured to eomparo k discuss the descriptions of tho bono u.s given by eminent and well-known anatomists. * There were up to 1890, as explained, page Vlb,