57 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE~2nd Tablet. MALAR PROCESS — Triangular, and presents: Ant. Surface - Concave, forms part of canine fos3a; Post. Surface - Concave, forms part of zygomatic fossa; Sup. Surface - Rough for articulation with malar bone. NASAL PROCESS — Triangular, and presents: Outer Surface - Concave, gives attachment to orbicularis palpebrarum, tendo ooub, levator labii superioris alaeque nasi Inner Surface - Presents from above downwards : Rough surface, which articulates with ethmoid bone ; Superior turbinated crest which articulates with middle turbinated bone; Inferior turbinated crest with the two grooves already described. Ant. Border - Thin, serrated above for articulation with nasal bone, and continuous below with margin of the deep notch, which bounds laterally the anterior aperture of the nasal fossae. Post. Border - Presents a groove which forms part of nasal duct, of whioh groove the Inner margin articulates with lachrymal bone, while the Outer margin forms part of circumference of orbit, and presents the Lachrymal tubercle at its junction with orbital surface. ALVEOLAR PROCESS — Forms a curve of a semi-horse-shoe shape. Is thicker behind than in front, and presents eight alveoli in adults, five in children. PALATE PROCESS — Presents s Upper Surface - Concave from side to side. Forms part of floor of nasal fossa, and presents in front the Incisor foramen or foramen ofStenson, which is completed on its inner side by a thin lamina of bone directed backwards from its anterior to its posterior border (from the latter of which this lamina remains disconnected in youth). This foramen leads below into the Anterior palatine canal formed by the junction of the two bones, into which canal when it is viewed from below, are also seen to open two other small foramina, the Foramina of Scarpa situated in the suture between the two laminae. - The foramina of Stenson transmit the anterior palatine vessels, while the foramina of Scarpa transmit the naso-palatine nerves, of which the right one is said to be posterior to the left. Under Surface - Concave, rough, forms part of roof of mouth. - Is channelled by a Groove (sometimes by a canal) for the posterior palatine vessels & anterior or great palatine nerve, and presents behind anterior part of lower orifice of Postei'ior palatine canal, f Inner Border - Raised into a ridge which forms with its fellow a groove for vomer, and presents in front the Anterior nasal spine. Ant. Border - Forms lower part of anterior aperture of nasal fbasae. Post. Border - Articulates with horizontal plate of palate bone. t For foramina of Stenson & Scarpa, see Roof of Mouth, p. 70]