3 will never, to his dying day, become a souud practical anatomist, or a competent surgeon. Not only do such means not convey true knowledge, but they stand, if trusted to, as almost insuperable harriers in the way of such knowledge ever being gained. Plates and diagrams can only convey mental pictures, - abstractions which are. unfortunately, in comparison with the actual facts, easily grasped and easily referred to in words, and are therefore, whether correct or otherwise, tenaciously clung to. The man who is thus enabled to talk glibly about things, which perhaps he may never even have seen, thinks he knows all about them, and has his eyes closed to observation. He, indeed, shuns contact with facts, lest they should rudely disturb his self-complacent quietude." '' What is the primary want of the physician or surgeon in regard to anatomy ? Is it not to acquire visual and manual familiarity with the human frame ? Is it not to know, in the sense of almost seeing through, and, as far as needs be, of dextrously handling throughout, the individual man, woman, or child he is ausculating or percussing, or otherwise exploring, or whose unconscious form lies under his knife on the operating table? What is it that will give him practical insight into the actual case then before him, quickness in understanding its bearings, fertility of resource in dealing with its requirements ? Is it not mainly the trained hand that makes straight for the right osseous projection, the educated finger accustomed to the feel of this structure and of that, the sharp eye familiar with the most insiguiticant guide-point, and which recognises at once a little bit of an exposed tendon, or a certain small nerve, or a thin muscular plane ? What serves here the anatomy of the scientist ? "—(Plea for Practical Work in Anatomy. ) The proper use of plates and diagrams is for the purpose of identification of the several structures by the beginner, and for saving time in regard to book-work at home, and thus allowing more time for practical work. It is hoped that the figures of this edition will be so used. Except for the purposes of revision of work already well done, figures should not be the objects of separate study. CORRIGENDA. Page 14, line 3o.—For " particularities " read " peculiarities. "' Page 17, second line from bottom.—For " studied " read " studded." Page 58, line 24.—For "middle" read "inferior": - Superior $' inferior turbinated crests on inner surface of vertical plate of palate bone. THE FIBULA. An apology is due to Mr. Christopher Heath in regard to the Fibula. Mr. Heath originated the four surfaces description of the shaft of that bone as long ago as 18G4. The circumstance had escaped the Author's attention : In his " Practical Anatomy,"' Mr.