THE METACARPAL BONES 107 Long bones with shaft & two extremities. COMMON CHARACTERS: Shaft - Prismoid & concave anteriorly. Presents : Dorsal Surface - Triangular, broad below, covered by extensor tendons. Lateral Surfaces - Concave, divided by a ridge into two parts for palmar & dorsal interossei. The ridge bifurcates below, and its branches end in the tubercles on either side of head. Carpal Extremity or Base - Cuboid. Presents_ Palmar & Dorsal Surfaces - Rough for ligaments; the latter is the largest. Sup. & Lateral Surfaces - Articular, for carpus & ad joining metacarpal bones. Digital Extremity or Head - Presents: Inf. or Articular Surface - Rounded, extending farther m tront than behind, and slightly flattened from side to side. Lateral Surfaces - Depressed ; present two tubercles, of which posterior one is for lateral ligt. of corresponding metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. Ant. Surface - Grooved for flexor tendons. Post. Surface - Broad & flat. PARTICULAR CHARACTERS : METACARPAL B. OF THUMB — The shortest. Shaft - Thick & broad ; its palmar surface looks inwards. Carpal Extremity - Saddle-shaped for trapezium (convex from before backwards, concave from side to side) & broadest externally; no lateral facets. Digital Extremity - Broader & less convex anteriorly than in the other metacar- pal bones; presents two small lateral facets for sesamoid bones. METACARPAL B. OF INDEX — The longest. Carpal Extremity - Larger than in the others, and presents posteriorly a pro- longation upwards & inwards towards os magnum. Has four articular surfaces, one saddle-shaped above for trapezoid, and three others for trapezium, os magnum & 3rd metacarpal bone. METACARPAL B. OF MIDDLE FINGER — The longest but one. Carpal Extremity - Presents a prolongation upwards & outwards behind os magnum, and has four articular facets, one for os magnum, one for 2nd metacarpal bone, and two for 4th. METACARPAL B. OF RING FINGER — Short. Carpal Extremity - Pretty regularly cuboid. Presents five facets for unciform, os magnum, 3rd (two facets), &.5th metacarpal bones. METACARPAL B. OF LITTLE FINGER — The smallest & the shortest but one. Carpal Extremity - Has a prominent tubercle on inner side for extensor carpi ulnaris; carpal facet is saddle-shaped for unciform; only one lateral facet for 4th metacarpal bone. N.B.—The foregoing characters supply the three points requisite to place the bones in position, and therefore to distinguish between right bones and left bones. THE PHALANGES Fourteen, three to each finger, two to thumb. Are long bones and present: Shaft - Slightly curved anteriorly. Plat from side to side on palmar surface, convex on dorsal. Margins prominent for attachment of sheaths of flexor ten- dons. - The shaft is longer in first or proximal phalanges than in second, in second than in third. Proximal Extremity - The largest. Presents : In First Row - Oval, concave, articular surface, broadest from side to side. In Second & Third Rows - Two lateral concavities & a median ridge. Distal Extremity - The smallest. Presents: In First & Second Rows - A trochlear surface prolonged farther in front than behind. In Third Row - A rough horse-shoe shaped eminence on palmar surface.