99 THE ULNA Is larger & longer than the radius, and larger above than below. Presents : UFPER EXTREMITY —The strongest part of the bone; presents the coronoid & olecranon processes, and the greater & lesser sigmoid cavities. Coroiioid Process - Prismatic. Projects forwards, and presents : Apex - Slightly curved upwards; received into coronoid fossa in complete flexion of fore-arm ; Base - Broad, continuous with shaft; Upper Surface - Articular, concave from before backwards, marked by a slight antero-posterior ridge. Under Surface - Concave, rough for brachialis anticus & oblique ligament; ' Inner Surface - Bough, concave behind for flexor profundus digitorum. Presents anteriorly & from above downwards: prominent margin for internal lateral ligament of elbow-joint; tubercle for middle head of flexor sublimis; ridge for outer head of pronator radii teres. - A slip of the flexor longus pollicis arises sometimes from this surface. Outer Sukface - Presents lesser sigmoid cavity above, and gives origin below to some of the fibres of the supinator brevif. Olecranon Process - Large, slightly curved forwards. Presents: Apex - Prominent, received into olecranon fossa in complete extension of forearm; Base - Contracted, continuous with shaft; Anterior Surface - Articular, concave, marked by a slight vertical ridge; Posterior Surface - Triangular, subcutaneous, covered by a bursa; Uppf.r Surface - Kough behind for triceps; slightly grooved in front, close to margin, for posterior ligament of elbow-joint; Bonders, Inner & Outer — Presenting continuation of same groove for internal & posterior ligaments. Greater Sigmoid Cavity-Comprisedbetween coronoid & olecranon processes, notched on either side towards its middle, and divided by a slightly elevated ridge into two parts, of which the internal is the broadest. Lesser Sigmoid Cavity-Situated on outer side of coronoid process, narrow, concave from before backwards; its extremities give attachment to the orbicular ligament of the radius. LOWER EXTREMITY — Small, excluded from wrist-joint by triangular fibro-cartilage. Presents: Head - Articular below, where it is flattened and plays upon triangular fibro-cartilage, and externally, where it is semi-cylindrical and is received into sigmoid cavity of radius Styloid Process - Cylindrical, descends from inner & back part of head; gives attachment to internal lateral ligament of wrist-joint. - Between these parts there exists below, a Depression - For attachment of triangular fibro-cartilage, and behind, a Groove - Which transmits tendon of extensor carpi ulnaris. SHAFT — Large & prismatic above, smaller & rounded below, slightly curved forwards, aud convex externally above, internally below. Presents : Surfaces - Anterior, posterior, internal, all three broader above than below. Anterior - Concave in upper three-fourths for flexor profundus digitorum, also ex- cavated below for pronator quadratus. Presents the opening of the nutrient canal, which is directed upwards. Posterior - Presents above a triangular surface for anconeus, which surface is bounded externally by an oblique ridge for supinator brevis. Below this the posterior surface is divided by a vertical ridge into a narrow inner part, which gives attachment to, or is sometimes merely covered by, the extensor carpi ulnaris, and an outer broader part which gives attachment from above downwards to the supinator brevis and extensores ossis metacarpi pollicis, secundi internodif pollicis, & indicia. Internal - Gives attachment to the flexor profundus digitorum in its upper three- fourths ; is subcutaneous in its lower fourth. Borders - Anterior, posterior, external, best marked in upper two-thirds. Anterior - From ridge on inner surface of coronoid process to front of styloid pro- cess. Gives attachment to flexor profundus digitorum & pronator quadratus. Posterior - From lower & back part of olecranon to back of styloid process. Gives attachment superiorly to an aponeurosis common to flexor & extensor carpi ulnaris and flexor profundus digitorum. External ■ - Bifid superiorly, where it arises from either extremity of the lesser sig- moid cavity, and embraces a rough surface for supinator brevis* is very prominent towards middle; gives attachment to interosseous ligament.