«}. l.l'b 25*A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES OF THE HUMAN BODY, BY JOHN BARCLAY, M. D. LECTURER ON ANATOMY AND SURGERY, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, AND OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH, &C, &C. EDINBURGH : PRINTED FOR THOMAS BRYCE & CO. MEDICAL BOOKSELLERS 13, INFIRMARY STREET; AND LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, & BROWN; J. MURRAY, Jt CALLOW j S. H1GHLEY j AND T. UNDERWOOD; LONDON j AND W DUNCAN, GLASGOW. 1812r~f t jr'W’ - I H y . [ .M EDINBURGH: Printed by James Clarke, fTO THOMAS THOMSON, M. D. F.R.S. L. & E. dear sir, Since I dedicated to you my former Work on the Muscular Motions of the Human Body, my opinion of your worth, your learning, and abilities, has re- mained unaltered. Actuated, therefore, by the like motives that influenced me then, I dedicate to you also this Descrip- tion of the Arteries of the Human Body. Whatever may he its merits or demerits, ADEDICATION'. there are none better qualified than you to judge. With every sincere and ardent wish for your happiness in life, and joui increasing reputation in science, already so great, I am, with esteem, dear sir, Yout affectionate Friend, JOHN BARCLAY.CONTENTS. Preface. Introduction. AORTA. Page Commencing from the Left, or Systemic Ventricle, conveys blood, through the medium of its branches, to all the various parts of the System 1 Is nominally divided into three Portions, the Arched Portion, the Straight Thoracic Portion, and Ar- ERRATA. Preface, Page vm. line 23, for third read fourth. Page 47, for Cesserius read Casserius. 173, for Gastrin read Gastricn. 215, for Hamorrhoidie read Hxmorrhoidece. Arteria Anonyma, or Innominata Cephalic Arteries, or Common Carotids. Each Cephalic usually divides into two branches, a Pericephalic, or External Carotid; and an Ence- phalic, or Internal Carotid Iiie Pericephalic usually into eight branches The Atlantal or Superior Thyroid The Lingual _ The Pharyngeal - _ . The Labial - The Occipital - The Auricular - The Orbito Maxillary, or Internal Maxillary The Temporal - . . A 3 8 10 12 13 16 17 18 22 23 25 31IV CONTENTS. The Encephalic into four The Opthalmic - _ The communicating branch in the Circle of Willis The Branch called Arteria Sylviana 'The Branch named Arteria Callosa Page 39 45 49 50 Brachial Artery, nominally divided into three Por- tions; the Subclavian, Axillary, and Humeral 53 Ths Subclavian Portion - - - 56 Its branches The Vertebral Artery, running to the Head, co-operat- ing with the Encephalic, and said to give off the Spinal Arteries - _ - 59 The first, or Superior Intercostal - - 75 The Sternal, or Internal Mammary - 77 The Sacrothyroid, or Inferior Thyroid - 84 Irregular branches - - - - 85 The Axillary Portion - - - 83 Its branches Certain Arteries called T/ioracics - -89 A Scapular Artery - - - 92 Two branches cireumflected on the Humerus The Humeral Portion - - - 96 Its branches The deep branch of the Humerus - - 1O6 The Nutritious Artery of the Humerus - - 109 The Anastomotic branch - - - 111 The Radial, Ulnar, and Interosseal branches - 113 The character of the Radial - - - 114 of the Ulnar - - 118 of the Interosseal - 120 Their Recurrent branches - 122 Their branches on the Fore-arm - - 125 On the Carpus and Fingers - - 126 On the Volar aspect of the Carpus and Metacarpus 127 O11 the Anconal aspect of the Carpus and Metacarpus 135 On the Fingers and Thumb - - 138 STRAIGHT THORACIC PORTION OF THE AORTA. Its branches The Bronchial - - - - 142The (Esophageal The Intercostal CONTENTS. V Page - 153 - 154 ABDOMINAL PORTION OF THE AORTA - 163 Its branches The Phrenics to the Diaphragm - - 165 The Cceliac — m m m 167 Branching on the Stomach - - 173 On the Liver - - 175 On the Spleen - - 179 The Larger or Superior Mesenteric. Communicating with the Cceliac on the Pancreas and Duodenum, and Ramified on ali the rest of the In- testines, excepting the Left Colon and Rectum 187 \ The Smaller, or Inferior Mesenteric. Ramified on the Left Colon and Rectum The Renal Arteries ramified on the Kidnies The Spermatic on the Testes or Ovaria The Adipose on the Adipose substance round the Kidnies The Ureteric on the Ureters The Lumbar on the I’arietes of the Abdomen The Sacro-Median, and the Two Crural, in which the Aorta terminates - _ The Sacro-Median - The Crural Artery, nominally divided into five Portions The Lumbar Portion, or Common Iliac Artery its branch the Hypo-iliac, or Hypogastric Sends off the Ilio-Lumbar The Gluteal The Ischiadic The Sacro-Laterals Uterine branches Vesical branches Umbilical branches Haeinorrhoidal branches The Pelvien Pudic 185 189 192 197 198 198 201 204 201 205 206 206 208 209 211 211 213 213 215 216VI CONTENTS. Page- The Iliac Portion, or External Iliac Artery 229 Sends off the Epigastric - . 230 The Circumflex Iliac - - 230 The Obturator Artery, irregular in origin 236 The Inguinal Portion, or Common Femoral — 239 Sends off Inguinal branches - - 244 The Inguinal Pudies - - 245 The Larger Circumflex of the Femur - - 246 The Smaller Circumflex of the Femur - - 248 The Deep Artery of the Femur - - 249 The Femoro-Tibial Portion, or Superficial Fe- moral Artery - 251 Sends off some branches named Perforants, and a branch called Anastomotic. \yt > V i ; C! The Ffmoro-Popliteal Portion, or Popliteal Ar- TERY - - - - - 253 Sends off the Proximo-Artieulars - 254 The Disto-Articulars - 255 The Azygous Articular - 255 The Gastro-Cnemial branches - 256 The two Tibial branches - 256 The Anterior - 260 The Posterior Its branches 264 The Peroneal - 265 The two Plantar branches - 268 The Internal - 269 The External - 270 THE PULMONARY ARTERY. Commencing in the Right Ventricle of the Heart, and distributing through the Lungs the whole blood that returns by the Veins, which accompany the branch- es of the Aorta -TO a 5 MY PUPILS. GENTLEMEN, I am aware that, on seeing this Description of the Arteries, many will naturally be disposed to ask. Why another Description of the Arteries ? why is it so short, or why is it so long ? and why is it not accompanied with plates ? To the first question, I have partly replied in my Introduc- tion. In most authors who have treated of the Ar- teries, since the days of Haller, the description of some common variety, and often what he has de- picted in his Figures, has usually been substituted for the description of the general character. The consequence has been, that the other varieties, such as lie often describes in his notes, have been men- tioned, only, if mentioned at all, as Lusus Nalurce,VIII PREFACE. or as deviations from a general law, that has been supposed, but never deduced on the principles of in- duction, by any extensive or patient inquiry into the modes in which nature diversifies the Arterial Sys- tem. The second question admits of an answer in a few words. Instead of describing the indefinite varieties that distinguish individuals, I have endeavoured, from various preparations, and the descriptions of various authors, to ascertain the general range al- lowed to each of the Larger Arteries, as to their ori- gin, their ramification, and extent of distribution. ♦ To the third question, the reply is very nearly as short. The whole Treatise is by no means occu- pied with the description. Wherever I have deviated from the accounts usually given, I have felt, as if bound in justice and candour, to assign my reasons, and to quote authorities, such as the scrupulous and inquisitive reader might naturally demand, the in- telligent reader naturally expect, and which only the thoughtless and the indifferent would have dispensed with. The third question demands an answer not only to arguments, but even to strong and to early pre- judices, and yet notwithstanding is so vague in it- self, that it points to no definite object. To what kind of plates does it refer ? 1 mean not as to size, elegance, or accuracy, but to mode of expression. InIX PREFACE. a 3 what manner are they to convey an idea of the ge- neral characters of Arteries. Plates representing all the diversities of ramification, from which the ge- neral character is deduced, would be a work of la- bour and expense, far beyond what any individual could reasonably attempt, the generality be inclined to purchase, the indolent to study, or the rational to approve. Plates, again, to supply the place of general inferences, condensing all the particular diversities of ramification into one form, and that form distinctly including all the diversities of ramification, are nei- ther in the power of fancy to conceive, nor of art to execute. The plates, to which the question alludes, must then be the figures of some particular ramifica- tions, or mixtures of particular ramifications, to as- sist the reader in forming a general idea of the rest. This is the character of the elegant plates published by Haller, which, from a belief of what is impossible, have usually been thought to represent his general conclusions. As pictures of individual objects, they certainly convey more lively impressions than verbal descrip- tions. To comprehend them requires less time, and a less degree of mental exertion. From the impres- sions which they happen to make, they are easily re- membered, and if they attract by their novelty or beauty, may induce many to think of the subjects t'j which they relate, who would not otherwise havePREFACE. X bestowed a thought on them. Children in this way- are tempted to read for the sake of the pictures, and even the old, from early habits, or a natural bias for external show, are often induced to purchase books at extravagant prices, on account of their engravings, their rich illuminations, and their brilliant colour- ings. It is true likewise, that accurate figures and verbal descriptions contribute mutually to throw light upon one another, and not unfrcquently assist the reader in forming more clear and precise ideas of the meaning of the author. Pictures therefore, when accurately executed, in books of Pathology, or Na- tural History, where the objects described are such as the reader never has seen, and never may see, are certainly attended with considerable advantage ; and particularly where the author is obscure, or where the power of conception in the reader is, from an original or acquired defect, either feeble or tardy, or hasty and unguarded in its operations. With respect to the pictures respresenting parts of the Human Body, the case is different; the Student of Anatomy has more frequently an opportunity of seeing the parts, and even of purchasing them at a less expense, than he has of seeing or of purchasing their pictures in the splendid works of Bidloo, Cowper, Albim s, Haller, Cheselden, Sue, Walther, Mascagni, Scarpa, or D’Azyr. It is true, that, from these and other engravings of distinguished celebrity, numer-XI PREFACE. ous copies of inferior size, execution, and price, and partly copies, and partly not, to conceal the plagiarisms («), have frequently been published, and frequently been thought equally useful. Among these some, with a few original figures, have been delineated by Anatomists themselves, who in that case cannot be supposed to feel much interest in bringing into view, or in commending any thing greatly superior to their own. From these causes, as well as from the price (6), the splendid engravings that reflected honour upon the judgment and superintendence of former Ana- (а) “ Hine factum ut scioli multi et sophist®, aliorum in- “ venta expilantes, eadem passim (ordine solummodo verbis- “ que immutatis, paucisque nullius momenti adjectis) pro suis “ audacter venditent; philosophiamque, quam certain et per- 11 spicuam esse oportuit, obscuram intrieatam etconfusam red- “ dant.”—Harveius, Prafat. ad Exercit de Generat. Animalium. (б) The high price of elegant engravings is the usual pre- tence for publishing those of inferior value. In this pretence, the Anatomist is supposed to have little taste for the line arts, to be either needy or meanly parsimonious, and yet not so fet- tered the one way or the other, as to refuse a little of his money for figures accommodated to his wants, if poor, or his nig- gardliness, if sordid. He is not, indeed, openly discouraged from having recourse to the structure itself, which these figures are meant to represent, but is confidently assured, that, by the assistance of such figures, he will greatly facilitate the progress of his studies at a small expense ; a hint which, if taken, must be gratifying at least to the author and bookseller, whether advantageous to him or not.PREPACK. xri tomists, and upon the skill and dexterity of the artists whom the}' employed, are seldom to be met with. The improvement of taste has not only been retard- ed, but the taste itself so degraded and corrupted, that a rude figure, embellished with colours in the style of a map, is calculated to afford it as much pleasure, as the taste that is cultivated derives from the works of the first masters. I have hitherto proceeded on the supposition, that these figures, though not always elegant, are in ge- neral correct; and yet it is known that the number of incorrect figures is immense; and that Haller, who often cautions his reader against the erroneous figures of others, has cautioned him also against some of his own, deficient not only in elegance, but in truth (c). The reason why he afterwards published them has not been assigned ; but the artist who can accurately copy nature is not easily found, his errors, if committed, not easily corrected, nor indeed, we must allow, easily acknowledged, if he happens to be the Anatomist himself. From the difficulty of strik- ing an accurate resemblance; from the trouble and uncertainty of the effect in attempting a correction; or the trouble and expense of a new figure with (c) Tab. 111. Fascic. IF. “ Haec icon minus placet et sup- “ plebitur in Arteriis Femoris. Tab. V. Fascic. V. Haec icon “ minus uitida, aliqua etiam vitiosa habet.”PREFACE. XIII no better hopes, many splendid figures, in both Ana- tomy and Natural History, though known to be false representations, have been given to the public; have grossly imposed on the credulous and ignorant; and been more frequently a source of error and of miscon- ception, than verbal descriptions, which, if seen to be erroneous, can be easily altered. To the ignorant, indolent, or the indifferent, the beauty of the figure may sometimes compensate for the want of truth; but to the genuine admirer of nature nothing ever can. It is therefore, that Fabricius the Entomologist, in alluding to some figures of insects, exclaims in in- dignation, “ Cursed be the memories of Hill and Ren- ard, who have given us fictitious insects for real (d) !” The fact is, that, though many elegant and splen- did figures have already been published in Bo- tany and Zoology, yet very few genuine naturalists have either received, or communicated much im- portant information through such channels; they have generally preferred, independent of any consideration of expense, concise descriptions, written in appropriate technical language, and have found them of more practical use as vehicles of science, than the most superb imitations of the pencil. The reason may (tl) “ Systematic! veri pauci, observatores plures, at Ich- “ niographi plurimi, splendidissimi j damnandae vero memorias “ John Hill et Louis Renard, qui insecta ficta proposuere.”XIV PREFACE. have been., that the imitations are merely the pic- tures of certain individuals, but the short descriptions in technical language, the definitions of a genus or a species: The first imply merely the art of delineat- ing forms, and an acquaintance with the individuals that are represented ; the second, a knowledge of a species or genus, a patient comparison of many indi- viduals, much minute and repeated observation, soundness of judgment, the power of discriminating and of generalizing, and the art of reasoning on the principles of induction ; the first, a task of easy ac- complishment, of short duration, and of talents that are common, or that may be acquired ; the second, a task of difficult accomplishment, of much trouble, of tedious duration, and of a combination of talents that is rare. It has therefore been observed, that, in Natural History, the real systematic writers are few, the observers many, but the Inehnographists in vast numbers (e). Those delineations that approach nearest in point of utility to the generic and specific descriptions, are those that represent the form, the number, and positions of the characters that distinguish genera and species, and which in general require only but a very moderate knowledge of the pencil. Naturalists, -in depicting these characters, either of the genera (e) See the preceding Note.XV PREFACE. belonging to an order, or of the species belonging to a genus, regularly depict the characters of each, and leave not the reader, from the observation of a.single instance, to form a conjectural idea of the rest. In describing the Anatomy of the Human Body, the practice is different; we have no occasion for either generic or specific distinctions, unless where we mean to institute comparisons; we have only to describe a specific structure, and the prominent varieties which its several organs occasionally exhibit. In de- picting these, it has been usual, for the reasons as- signed, to depict only one of the varieties, generally, the most common, and to notice the others, if noticed at all, in verbal description. Anatomical plates, therefore, representing one of the comVnon varieties of an organ, should, if properly understood, be only an incitement to study the rest. The absurd, but too prevalent notion, that these are expressive of cer- tain generic or specific characters; that they super- sede the necessity of reading, or of examining the organs themselves in all their varieties, has induced a degree of indifference and supineness, that has been injurious to the progress of Anatomy. Even the splendid Anatomical plates of Albinus and Haller have, from this cause, instead of promoting, rather retarded the spirit of inquiry, and withdrawn the attention from the study and pursuit of general truths to which science aspires, to the contemplationPREFACE. XVI of particular facts from which it commences (f). The plates of Albinus, instead of inducing the Anatomist to read his work Dc.Scelcto Humano, and his work entitled Historia Musculorum, have been the means of suffering them to fall into almost total neglect and oblivion. Little surely did Albinus imagine, that, after publishing his Historia Musculorum, the at- tachment of the Obliquus Externus to the Spine of the Pubis (g), or the compression of the Urethra, by the muscles called Comprcssores Prostatas, would have ever been considered as the discoveries of later times ; and less surely might Haller have imagined, when he combated the opinion that the high divi- sion of the Humeral Artery was not the most com- mon, that his learned annotations would have been forgotten, and his plates quoted, not half a century (f) “ Ex sensu permanet sensatum; ex permanentia sensati a fit memoria; ex multiplici memoria, experientia; ab ex- “ perientia, ratio universalis, definitiones, et maxima, sive “ axiomata communia, cognitionis certissima principia.”— Harveius, Prirfat. ad Exercit. de General. Animalium. (g) After describing one of the Tendons, by which the Ob- liques attaches itself to the Os Pubis of the opposite side, he observes, that with the other “ Se inserit tuberculo quod 6 su- “ periore eademque priore parte Ossis Pubis eminet; proximee ■ “ que Spinee quae ab ejus tuberculi latere externo est.” This last attachment is now denominated the Ligament of Gimbcmat, as if it had been unknown before.XVII PREFACE. after his death, to prove he was ignorant of the very division of which he had collected so various proofs, of which he had seen, and of, which he had examined such a number of cases to ascertain, on the principles of induction, whether it or the one which he has de- picted was the most common. This fondness for the plates, and reluctance to the labour of studying the works, which the plates were only intended to illustrate, presage nothing that is favourable to Anatomy. They indicate the decline of those energies, and of that enthusiasm, by which its boundaries were originally extended ; they imply that Anatomists are beginning to dislike the smell of the lamp (/;); that they feel not the pleasure, which they ought to feel, in the actual inspection of the ob- jects themselves (i) ; that they seldom persevere until they are fatigued, or rejoice at being fatigued in such a cause (A-); and that they are appalled at the (A) “ Ego, qua potui diligentia, perquisui et non parum olei “ et operas perdidi, &e.”—Harveius, F.xercit. Prima ad J. I\io- lanum. (i) “ Ita est, inquit Harveius. Placuit mihi semper ipsorum “ animalium iuspectio.”—Dedicat. ad Exercit. de General. Ani- mal aim. (A) “ In tali profecto opere, non fatigari solum, sed etiam “ fatiscere suave est ■, ubi indagandi fastidium ipsa intuendi “ voluptate abunde compensatur. Solemus, rerum novarumPREFACE. XVIII labour and toil that are absolutely necessary for the successful prosecution of science (/). It were fortunate indeed, if those, who declined these necessary labours, did not aspire to the honours and rewards that properly belong to them; such a “ cupiili, procul in ignotas terras excurrere, nt audita ab alii* “ ipsimet propriis oculis intueamur: ubi tamen pierumque Minuit praesenlia J'amam. “ Pudeat itaque, in hoc naturae campo tam spacioso tam ad- “ mirabili, proinissisque majora semper persolvente, aliorum “ scriptis credere; incerta inde problemata cudete; etspinosas “ captiosasque disputatiunculas nectere. Natura ipsa adeunda “ est; et semita, quam nobis monstrat, insistendum : ita enim “ dum oculos nostros consuinnus, et a minimis exorsi ad raa- “jora promovemus pedem, ad intima tandem ipsius arcana “ penetrabimus ” (/) “ Nec est, cur jure quempiam labor dc-terreat ; si modo “ seeum animo reputaverit, hoc ipsuin, quod vivimus, ab inde- “ fatigabili cordis uostri agitationc proficisci. Neqne profecto “ tam desertum et solitaiium hoc iter foret, nisi more, aut vitio “ potius, seculi in quo degimus, plurimi ad ignaviam proclives, ,c malient cum turba errare, quam cum laboris aerisque im- “ pendio privatim sapere : cum tamen veteres philosoplii (quo- “ rum nos etiam laudamus itidustriam) contrarium prorsus iter “ institerint; atque mdefessis laboribus varia rerum experi- “ menta inquirentes, haud dubiam lucem studiis nostris prae- “ tulerint. Eorum tamen inventis dum acquiescimus, credim- “ usque {quae nostra est socordia) nihil ulterius reperiri posse; “ vivida ingenii acies languescit, etlampada, quam nobis tra- <* diderunt, exstinguimus.”XIX PREFACE. paltry and unprincipled ambition, animated seldom even with a spark of generous emulation, but often inflamed with the basest rancour, jealousy, and envy, was what raised the hosts of opponents to blast the reputations, and vilify the labours not only of Har- vey, but Linnasus and Haller. Harvey’s opponents treated his discovery as a silly bantling unworthy of the light, accused himself of affectation, vanity, and trifling, for opening animals while they were alive; wantonly reproached him for dissecting frogs, serpents, and flies ; sneered at him often in contemptuous derision, and, in the more violent paroxysms of their rage, refrained not from cursing him (m). The opponents of Linnaeus, to excite a popular cla- mour against him, represented his system as infa- mously voluptuous, and subversive of the principles of morals and religion; while one Siegesbeck (n), a (m) “ Tenellum adhuc infantem conviliis lacerant tanquam “ luce indignum—Sunt qui me inanem vivarum dissectionum “ gloriam affectasse clamitant; et ranas, serpentes muscas, “ aliaque viliora auimalia in scenam adducta, levitate puerili “ vitu perant, et irrident, nec a maledictis abstinent. ”—Exercit. Altera ad Riolanum. (n) “ This man’s celebrity,” says Stoever the biographer of Linnaeus, “ turned to his shame, and his insignificant name was only kept in rememberanee, owing to the greatness of The genius whom he so much strove to lessen. His conduct as anXX PREFACE. vain, ignorant, but popular deelaimer, shifting his side, and renouncing the friendship which he former- ly professed, was, through the influence of Lawrence Heister, appointed Botanical Professor at St. Peters- burgh, on purpose to rail at him ; and, it is acknow- ledged by Linnaeus himself, railed so successfully, that he once was brought into such a state of pover- ty and contempt, bv scurrilous abuse, that he se- riously had resolved to bid adieu to Botany for- ever (o). The fate of Haller in some respects was not much better: Equally zealous, and equally industrious as opponent was the more impudent, as he was himself destitute of that knowledge, which might have made him a competent judge of learning. The celebrated Gmelin, who lived at the same time at St. Petersburgh, delineates his character in these words: * Siegesbeck has scarcely a superCcial knowledge of Botany; he understands the writings of others as "little as he knows himself; he is contented with the bare names of plants suggested to him by his sterile brain; destitute of all penetra- tion.”—Stoever’s life of Linnceus, translated ,aj Trapp, § vi. (o) “ Sedem Cxi Holmiae, irrisus ab omnibus ab meatn Bo- “ tanicen quot insomnes noctes et laboriosas lioras transe- “ gerim, nullus dixit j quam vero a Siegesbec/iio eram anni- “ hilatus, omnes uno ore acclamabant.—Heu ! dixi, dat .'Escu- “ lapius bona omnia, Flora vero solos Siegesbeckios ; inter'ixi “ Floram; qua? collegi adversaria ceterno pulvere sepelienda “milhes decrevi ”—Linnei, Episi. ad Hallerum, tol. i. p. 4l5, and Stoever’s life of Linnceus, § vi.XXI PREFACE. the other two, in promoting the real interests of science, he was ranked, he informs us, amongst the most wretched scribblers ot his time, and seldom did a year pass over his head, in which he was not gross- ly insulted in some scurrileusly malicious pamph- lets Cp). These distinguished ornaments of science encoun- tered difficulties, and surmounted hardships, which can fall only to the lot of a few. Unlike their slug- gish, but envious opponents, they were not content with hear-say reports, or the pictures of the objects which they wished to examine; they regularly ex- amined the objects themselves, where they had op- portunities, and, to obtain these opportunities, grudg- ed neither time, labour, nor trouble. The progress which they made in many rugged paths untrodden before, and which they have described, to facilitate the progress of those who might follow them, is an evident proof, that we have not so much reason to dread the difficulties from without, as the want of spirit and energy within. That you. Gentlemen, may feel a portion of their generous ardour, and ac- (p) “tides sque Lector me depressum fu;sse, vexatum, “numeratum cum miserrimis scriptoribus. Prcefut. ad Ele- “ merit. Physiol, vol. iv. Ha est mea fortuna, ut cum omnibus “ eruditis cupiam bene, eorumque famaj studeam. Ut ta- “ men acerbos et contumelious in me hbellos fere quotannis “ videam. prodire de Prailo.”—Ibid, Pice fat. ad vol. r.PREFACE. XXII quire that accurate knowledge of Anatomy* which shall prove in the end creditable to yourselves, and beneficial, as it naturally must do, to your profession, is the earnest wish of Your sincere Friend, JOHN BARCLAY.\ INTRODUCTION. In most animals there are two distinct classes of organs, which, from the peculiar nature of their innctions, require always to be branched or ramified : The organs through which the fluids are circulated; and the organs by which the vital Energy is diffused. The first class is divided into Arteries, Veins, and Absorbents, and each division being dignified in Anatomy, with the name of System, we have thus four ramified Systems in the human body,—the Ar- terial, the V enous, the Absorbent, and the Nervous. The Arterial system consists of the vessels which convey the blood from the ventricles of the heart; the Venous, of the vessels which return the red part; the Absorbent, of the vessels which transmit the remainder along with the decayed parts from the or- - gans, and along with the nutritious portion of the food from the alimentary canal. The Nervous sys- tem consists of the Cerebrum, the Cerebellum, the Medulla oblongata, the Spinal marrow, and their ra- mifications, the last of which are the only parts of this system strictly called nerves. . huts ® ■ r.* ::</INTRODUCTION 11 The larger branches of all these Systems are some- times called Trunks, when viewed as the origins of their own particular ramifications ; a sort of lan- guage which, although incorrect, creates no confusion. The principal Trunks of the arteries are two ; one commencing at each ventricle of the heart. The one commencing at the right or pulmonic ventricle, is named the Pulmonic Artery, from being ramified through the Pulmones or lungs. It conveys blood of a. dark colour, which, on being exposed to the action of the air, in. its passage through the lungs, appears of a colour that is florid red. 4 ~ The other commencing at the left or systemic ventricle, is named the Aorta or Systemic Artery. It transmits the red and florid blood, through the medium of its branches, to the system at large. Both trunks are. furnished with valves at their commencement, to prevent tlie reflux of blood into the ventricles. In each the number of valves is three,, their fonn semi-lunar, and the only valves to be found'in the whole arterial system. -■ ln all the arteries, the blood flows from the trunks to the branches; in. the veins, it flows from the branches to the trunks, (a). tilt . cm • ■; sc v -j.l; .■> i :u,r* mat . («)jThe Vena Portae is the only exception. This singular vein is ramified at both extremities. By the branches of one : extremity It collects the blood from the stomach, spleen, pan- creas, and intestines; and by the branches of the opposite ex- tremity distributes it through the liver.INTRODUCTION'. b 2 i lie \ enous trunks, by which the blood upon its leturn enters the auricles, are seven in number. 1 he venous branches, receiving blood from the bran- ches of the pulmonic artery, terminate in four ; these tiansmit their blood to the left or systemic auricle; the left or systemic auricle, to the left or systemic ventricle; and the left or systemic ventricle, to the Aorta or systemic artery. The venous branches, receiving blood from the branches of the Aorta or systemic artery, terminate in three, the cava superior, the cava inferior, and coronary vein. These transmit their blood to the right or pulmonic auricle, the right or pulmonic auricle to the right or pulmonic ventricle, and the right or pul- monic ventricle to the pulmonic artery, where, in flow- ing through the smaller ramifications, it is exposed to the action of the air, changes its colour, again en- ters the systemic veins, and again returns by the sys- temic auricle and ventricle into the aorta or systemic artery. While in this artery, as it passes through t e branches, it gradually loses the florid red hue, but returning again by the pulmonic veins, auricle,' ventricle, and pulmonic artery, recovers it in the lungs. Prior to the time of Harvey, all the blood vessels connected with the right or pulmonic ventricle were considered as veins, and hence, in those days, theIV INTRODUCTION. pulmonic artery was called the Vena Arteriosa, or Arteria Venosa. ,In the same way, all the vessels connected with the left or systemic ventricle were considered as arteries ; and hence the pulmonary, or systemic veins, were regularly termed Arteriae Venosae, or Venae Arteriosae. These opinions gave rise to the expressions venous and arterial blood; the dark coloured blood being confined to what were called veins, and the florid to what were named arteries. After Harvey, however, had satisfactorily proved that the Vena arteriosa was actually an artery, and the Arteriae venosae actually veins in form and in function, it was obstinate and absurd, as De Back observes in his letter to Harvey, to call that Venous blood which flowed in arteries as well as in veins, or that Arterial blood which flowed in veins as well as in arteries. To accommodate our language to the immortal discovery of Harvey, I have proposed, in my No- menclature, to call the blood of the dark colour the Pulmonic Blood, as it all flows towards the pulmones, or lungs, and the blood of a florid red the Systemic Blood, as it all flows to the system at large. The Pulmonic system of sanguiferous vessels, will therefore consist of the veins and arteries that con- vey the dark coloured blood to the lungs: the Systemic system, of the veins and arteries that con-V INTRODUCTION. B 3 vey the florid blood from the lungs to the system at large. In this way, the pulmonic blood will, in one re- spect, signify precisely what the ancients meant by the Venous blood, and the systemic blood, precisely what they meant by Arterial blood, without involving the gross absurdity of calling that venous which flows in arteries, or that arterial which flows in veins (a). f (n) The obstinacy with which this language is retained in works of Anatomy, is now merely the effect of habit, but a habit continued in defiance of reason, and of common sense, and a habit, that is partly a consequence of that envy, which yielded so reluctantly to the clear and irresistible demonstra- tions of Harvey. An envy which, though compelled to be silent, has yet left behind it so discolouring a stain, that the merit of Harvey, to its full extent, is seen but obscurely in the present day, and by some Anatomists, as the late Dr. Hunter, scarcely seen at all. It should therefore be known, that the merit of Harvey did not consist in stumbling accidentally on any new facts, that necessarily forced him to see the circula- tion. In making his discovery, he was placed exactly in the >ame s.tuation with hundreds before, and hundreds in his tune: the facts, on which he established his conclusion, were facts generally known and admitted; facts that were seen, and facts that were examined by a great many others, some a century, and some even twenty centuries before. The valvuke tr.cusp.des and valvute mitrales, placed at the orifices of the two ventricles, and the valvul* semilunares, or sigmoides, a,INTRODUCTION. VI Ii all the blood flowing in the arteries were to return directly by the veins, and never to leave these circulating vessels, nothing would remain to the commencement of the two great arteries, were known to Galen ami,to Erasistratus, nay, are even mentioned, and ob- scurely described in that Treatise concerning the Heart, which, though erroneously, says Galen, ascribed to Hippocrates, is yet published in works. The valves in the veins of the extremities were seen and de- scribed by Jacobus Sylvius, were also described by Charles Stephans, under the name of Apophyses Venarum, and were afterwards seen, and more accurately described by the cele- brated Fabrieius of Aquapendente, under the name of Ostwla Venarum. But though all saw that these membranes might often retard, and sometimes arrest the current of the blood, as it flowed from the trunks to the branches of veins, or from the branches to the trunks of arteries, no one ever drew the con- clusion that they .acted regularly in the same manner, shut up the channels, and compelled the blood to flow uniformly in the same direction. ' The blood too, long before Harvey, had been known to pass through the vessels of the lungs from the right to the left ven- tricle of the heart, and this passage had been known to Galen, to Nemesius Bishop of Emessa, to Servetus a Spaniard, to Realdus Columbus, and to Andrew Caesalpinus. Nay, Andrew Cassalpinus had not only traced it from the right to the left ventricle of the heart, but from the left to the right again, and yet he saw nothing of the circulation discovered by Harvey. With him, the blood was still made to flow backwards andVH INTRODUCTION. ■uurish the system, to supply fluids for the glan- dular secretions, or to lubricate, when necessary, the different membranes, and the organs that are forwards in the same vessels, from trunks to branches, and from branches to trunks again, like the tides of Euripus. Besides these facts, Harvey enumerated a great many others that were equally known to his predecessors and his cotem- poraries ; facts, which, had they been accurately examined by a vigorous, penetrating, and reflecting mind, superior to pre- judice, would, hv a natural process of reasoning, have led to the discovery. But a mind of that description was wanting ; those minds that happened to observe them were feeble, un- steady. and fettered by hypotheses, and every new fact re- ceived au explanation suited to the prejudices which they had imbibed. The facts therefore which were previously known, and pre- viously explained on false hypotheses, were so far from being au assistance to Harvey in making his discovery, that they had all been previously enlisted to support the doctrine of natural, animal, and vital spirits j a doctrine which required two kinds of blood, one from each ventricle of the heart, and which were to meet in the cavities of the Cranium, Thorax, and Abdomen, and then to return, by the way that they went, back to the heart’ for a new supply of what was necessary to continue the forma- tion of the three spirits ; which three spirits were three imagi- nary instruments of Galen, under the direction of the three .Fa- culties, which he had substituted for the three Souls of Plato. These three spirits, and the two kinds,of blood, implied ideas that were incompatible with Harvey’s idea of the circulation. Vet these ideas, prepossessing the judgment, and destroying b 4INTRODUCTION. vui lodged in the different cavities. And if the nutri- tious part of the aliment should every day be en- tering into vessels from which there was no possible the candour of minds under the influence of fancy, prevented them from seeing, or readily admitting any kind of truths that were contrary to their own favourite conceits. On the other hand, the mind of Harvey, vigorous and sound, persevering and steady, was not to be shaken by the fashions of the day, by great names, or brilliant hypotheses. He was too penetrating, and had too much discernment, to be deceived by the shades and colourings that imposed upon others. From the facts that were generally known and admitted, but facts misapplied, he proved, in the clearest and most forcible manner, that the blood could not flow backwards and forwards in the same vessels ; that it must necessarily have a circular course, and that the membranes, situated at the orifices of the two ven trieles, at the commencement of the two great arteries, and of- ten occurring in the course of the veins, did not admit of the blood flowing in any other possible direction. And that this idea was strikingly new to the world at the time, was but too evident, from the general surprise which it occasioned, from the gene- ral envy which it excited, from the many endeavours that were made to refute it, and, when the truth was found irresistible, from the shameless attempts to detract from its merit, and as- cribe it to others. From the use which Harvey made of his facts, and from the use that was made of them by others, it appears, that facts on subjects of philosophy may partly be compared to the indi- viduals composing an army-without a leader and without dis- cipline, they never perform any memorable action, but underINTRODUCTION. IX egress, the vessels would proceed gradually extend- ing in length and diameter, until they were rup- tured. And yet the different parts of the system a Caesar, an Hannibal, or a Seipio,—are the 'safeguard of na- tions, the source of revolutions, and the dread of empires. The same facts, that were dormant and useless in the hands of others, or perverted to trifling conceits and hypotheses, were, under Harvey, the formidable host that overturned all the pa- thological and all the physiological systems of the time. What a different man must he then have been from those, who, mean- ly yielding to the fashion, are still employing the nonsensical jargon of the very hypotheses which he had confuted 1 Could they, I would ask, who basely are carried down with the stream, after it is almost spent and exhausted—could they, at the time when it spread like a sea, and rushed like a torrent, have been able to have met and stemmed it like Harvey ? The late Dr. Hunter has, rather invidiously, introduced him along with Copernicus and Columbus, to shew, that his merit as a discoverer was comparatively low. But what did Copernicus, and what did Columbus ? Not in possession of more numerous facts than their cotemporaries, but endowed with nobler and more vigorous intellects, the one developed the intricate sys- tem of the heavenly bodies, and the other discovered an un- heard-of Continent. Was it not exactly in the same way, by the exertions of superior intellect, that Harvey made his im- mortal discovery ? I know not what has happened in the world unseen j but, if I may judge from the records of history, and •he annals of fame, the spirit of Bacon, the spirits of Columbus Copernicus, and Newton, have not been ashamed to associate with, and to welcome the congenial spirit of Harvey. B 5 ij, VX INTRODUCTION. could not receive any additional increase of matter, nor could they admit of any diminution where there was nothing to carry off the decayed pails. To have therefore a correct and enlarged idea of the vascular system, it ought to be known, that nu- merous millions of arterial branches, like those rami- fied on the Tunica conjunctiva, are only to be seen when they are inflamed, and conveying red globules; that millions of such arterial branches, instead of transmitting their fluids to the veins, terminate to- wards the surface of the skin, exhaling the vapour called perspirable matter; millions on the central as- pect of the bronchi, the pulmonic vesicles, and the tra- chea, exhaling the vapour that is seen in the breath; millions on the central aspect of the alimentary- canal, to lubricate the tube, to protect it against acrimonious matter, or to assist in the processes of digestion; millions on the central aspect of the shut cavities, to lubricate the membranes, facilitate mo- tions, and prevent adhesions; millions in the glands, to supply the fluids for glandular secretions; and millions in all the different organs for supplying fluids, to be assimilated in growth and nutrition. Now, the fluids which they send to the shut cavities, the fluids that remain after the supply of the glan- dular secretions, all the decayed parts of the organs, and the fluids sent, but not assimilated in giowthINTRODUCTION. XI and nutrition, are returned by the vessels that are named Absorbents. These absorbents are a sub- ordinate system of veins, and furnished with valves similar to those that are found in the veins. Besides the places already enumerated, many com- mence towards the surface and in open cavities, while thewhole, by reiterated unions of their branches, termi- nate generally in two trunks, the largest called the Tho- racic Duct, which, receiving from branches (a) open- ing on the central aspect of the alimentary canal, all (a) These absorbents, denominated Lacteals, were seen by Herophilus and Erasistratus, and afterwards seen and their use pointed out by the modest Asellius ; and as Asellius pub- lished his account of them several years before the death of Harvey, Dr. Hunter mentions it as a stain on the character of Harvey, that he did not seem inclined to believe in their existence. The fact is, Harvey admitted the existence of the vessels that were seen by Asellius, but would not admit that in all cases there regularly was a set of chyliferous vessels dis- tinct from the veins, until the existence of such vessels could be regularly proved in all cases where chyle was conveyed from the intestines. Now, that proof had never been fur- nished in the time of Harvey, while his age and infirmity, and the want of Dr. Highmore as an assistant, deterred him from the trouble of personal and laborious investigation. The very bead and front of bis offending, therefore, were this, that he was old, infirm, and without assistance, and could not yield his assent to a truth on either deficient or conjectural evi- dence. But granting that the evidence had then been complete, B 6 *XJ- INTRODUCTION. the nutritious portion of food, (a) empties itself, along with the other, into one of the larger pulmonic vems, not far from the right or pulmonic auricle. The ramifications of the nervous system are very different from the ramifications of any of the three vascular systems. Each half of both the Cerebrum and Cerebellum lias a stalk or pedunculus; these pedunculi are called Crura; these crura unite m the cranium, and form a ganglion called Tuber Annulare.. Between the ganglion and the large foramen, through which they pass from the cavity of the cranium, l ey areknownby the nameofMedullaOblongata,and upon entering the vertebral column, are distinguished by the name of Spinal Marrow. Most of the nerves iasue from the crura, after their union in the tuber annulare, and most of them are composed of a num- ber of filaments, partly from one of the crura o the Cerebrum, and partly from one of the Cerebellum. that such vessels regally .aisled in all animals, on -hat pretence could Dr. Hunter afterwards boas., he tad L first to establish the fact which had neve, been fully esta blished before. ,.l As all living bodies, whether Plants or Animals, receive ' ' o„t through the medium of Absorbents, opening on :;;i:"et.i *«—* *? * Is if they were classed according to their funchous, ought rbe ^ d into two hinds, into .hose which return the Orcu- Fluids, and decayed parts, and those winch convey nourishment to the system.introduction. xiii These filaments, afterwards united in a common en- velope of cellular membrane, are called Nerves, and the branching of nerves is little more than the se- paration of a single filament, or fasciculus of fila- ments, from the common envelope in which they were included. Though we know various functions of the nerves, we know but little of the relations sub- sisting between their functions and structure. Much has been fancied, and much has been said, but little observed, and less demonstrated on this subject. The ramifications of all these systems differ in this from the ramifications of the vegetable kingdom, that in every place the smaller branches of the same species unite and separate, separate and unite again, so that veins with veins, arteries with arteries, ’ and nerv es with nerves, are observed to form the ap- pearances of networks, that are called Plexuses. Upon the whole, their ramifications in the larger branches are also more regular than those of plants, and for this reason, that they are all distributed through a system of a definite form, and of definite functions; a system, too, composed of parts of definite forms, proportional magnitudes, and of determinate relative positions. In the vegetable kingdom there is not the same cause for regularity, where the several branches are distinct plants, not like the mutually dependent parts of the same system, but like indi- viduals living together in the same society, and de-XIV INTRODUCTION. riving their nourishment from a common stock; but at the same time, capable of living on a dif- ferent stock, or of living wholly detached from the society, in any species of soil and climate, where the} can be regularly supplied with nourishment. Yet, notwithstanding the greater regularity of all the larger ramifications in the animal kingdom, every individual exhibits many peculiar varieties in the smaller branches, and even in some of the larger branches, where parts are diseased, or where habits are formed of varied extensive and voluntary motions. Such varieties, in copying from nature, are often re- presented in Anatomical Engravings, and referen- ces, often made indiscriminately, to the varieties as well as to the common ramifications. These Engrav- ings, again, if works of celebrity, are often, along with their verbal descriptions, and with very little change, copied by others, while these copies, passing for ori- ginals with the young and unsuspicious, the conclu- sion is, that branchings described by so many Anato- mists in different countries, and at different periods, must be branchings, if not universally present, at least very general among the species. On this hypothesis, and with a persuasion that appearances observed, and with little variation in every individual, must be matters of importance, and among tlie essential characters of the species, the student proceeds to examine them with care, and.XV INTRODUCTION. trying to remember them with their connections and relative situations, soon finds that his labours arc vain, and desists from his task in a fit of despon- dency ;—nor need his despondency be a matter of wonder. The references to the plates of the arteries, by Haller, are not fewer than two thousand five hundred, while the references to the veins, were they described with equal minuteness, would amount to nearly double that number. Yet this is not all ; the branches off Absorbents in the twenty seven plates of Mascagni, are more numerous than all the branches of arteries and A'eins that have ever yet been pictured in figures, or described in words; and one may judge what must be the number of nervous branches, figured and referred to in different engrav- ings, when he is told, that two thousand references are made by Walter to the branches of only a part of the Nerves lying in the cavities of the thorax and abdomen, and at least three thousand six bundled, by Fischer, to the branches of nerves in the sacral extremity. It is true, that in these different Engravings, refer- ences are made oftenerthan once to the same branches, succeeding plates representing frequently a part of the preceding; but, with every allowance, and every fair and reasonable deduction, the branches referred to, are, in point of number, by far too many for any human memory to retain an impression of: And ifxvi INTRODUCTION. it be necessary for the student to remember thenv that which is totally impossible is necessary. For- tunately it is neither necessary nor proper, the very attempt feeing equally repugnant to the principles of reason and common sense. Let him only compare, with these plates and descriptions, a few preparations where the vessels have been successfully injected, or the branchings of nerves minutely dissected; he shall see his preparations in the smaller branches dif- fering widely, not onl} from the plates, but from one another; and shall see each preparation exhibiting branches and ramifications peculiar to itself, exhibit- ing many not referred to in the plates, and wanting many that are there honoured with obtrusive refer- ences and tedious descriptions. Such a comparison must soon convince him, that many branches and ra- mifications described by Anatomists, are the mere peculiarities of individuals, and yet these not a tenth, nor a twentieth part of what they might have talked of, had they descended to still smaller branches, nor one million of a thousand millions, had they taken the microscope, and tried to discover, enumer- ate, and describe the extreme branches that elude the sight of the naked eye. But if once assured of the general fact, that all individuals hitherto examined, (and many thousands have been examined,) presented varieties in their smaller branches; may we not now fairly conclude, b 2— INTRODUCTION. XVli that every other individual of the species shall pre- sent varieties in a similar manner; and after arriving at this general conclusion, need we be told that cer- tain individuals, as A, B, C, have also had their share of varieties, and that would we only take pa- tience to listen, such and such an Anatomist could prove it by his plates, his descriptions, and his prepa- rations. That he certainly may do; but requesting our patience in such a case, is, in other words, insulting our judgment, unless the varieties can clearly be proved to reflect some important light on Medicine, to direct the operations of Surgery, or establish some general fact in Physiology (rt). If a Botanist should draw a particular plant to furnish some general idea (a) In studying Anatomy, the object of the student is first to be acquainted with the general or common structure of the species j and after acquiring this information, to know in gene- ral the modifications to which it is liable from age, sex, habit, and circumstances. In entering, however, on professional duties, as Surgeon'or Physician, the case will in some measure be reversed. Already acquainted with the general structure, and with its more general modifications, he now, with a patient under his care, must inquire minutely into what is peculiar in his constitution, what peculiar in his life and habits, peculiar in bis symptoms, and peculiar also in their mode of combina- tion ; and by these peculiarities in a great measure must regu- late his practice; it being obvious, that to practice successfully, he must know something more than the species of his patient.XVill INTRODUCTION. of its species, would he ever think of making refer- ences to all its peculiar branches and leaves, and accompany these references with verbal descriptions? If he did so, a pupil of Linnaeus would naturally suppose him fatuous or insane, or at least a most egregious insignificant trifler. So far as the difference of the cases will admit, might it not be worth the while of Anatomists to imi- tate the Naturalist in his mode of description. His objects of description in Botany and Zoology, are in- finitely more numerous and varied than those of An- atomy, and yet he describes them with so much pre- cision, that we seldom mistake the object which he means, and with so much conciseness, that we easily remember it; and what is more, recognise the object when we see it in nature, although we had never seen something more than the species of the disease, and something more than the species of the remedies usually recommended. To attempt the cure upon general information, would be to mistake the individual for the species; and a person labouring under such a mistake, would be likely to do more harm than good. In studying, however, individual distinctions, much care and discretion are also requisite ; for in such a pursuit, one may be apt to lose sight of the species, and, trusting to trifling unimportant distinctions, may regulate his practice by appearances and circumstances that have little connection with the species of the disease, or the species of bis patient.INTRODUCTION. XIX u before. On what principle is this singular art of description founded ? Linnaeus will inform us: Ex- amining a number of individuals, he marked the cha- racters that were uniform, permanent, and common to them all. Of these he selected the most obvious, for the purpose of being readily observed, and made them few, foi the purpose of being easily remember- ed : These constituted the characters of his Species. Comparing again a number of species, he marked the characters that were permanent, uniform, and com- mon to them : These constituted the characters of his Genera. Comparing the Genera, in the same way, he discovered the characters which distinguished the Orders; and comparing the Orders, the marks, and characters that distinguished his Classes. By these contrii ances, the Naturalist can now readily deter- mine the particular species to which a plant or ani- mal belongs; and had, therefore, a botanist accom- panied Kotzbue in his exile to Siberia, he, in two or three words, could have conveyed a precise idea of the species of the plant which that poet, after a de- scription of fully two pages, has left undetermined. In describing the four ramified systems, as occur- ring in man and the lower animals, under a great va- liety of forms, we perhaps, like the naturalist, might find it necessary to divide each into different Orders,XX INTRODUCTION. Genera, and Species (a.) But confining our views to the ramified systems of the human body, the charac- ters which distinguish their different orders, genera, and species, fall not within the plan of our inquiry. We have merely to select the characters of the spe- cies from the varieties that distinguish individuals. Thus, in comparing the arterial branches and rami- fications of many individuals, we have to examine all the appearances wherein they differ, and wherein they agree; wherein they agree often, and wherein seldom ; to distinguish what are regular from what are variable, what are peculiar from what are general, and then to fix on the regular and general as the characters of the species: Noting at the same time the nature and frequency of the exceptions from the general rule, but omitting entirely the uncertain and unimportant va- rieties that distinguish individuals, and which never can be objects of any description that is applicable to the species. By leaving as uncertain what is uncertain, and de- scribing as regular only what is regular, we should greatly facilitate the progress of Anatomy, relieve our (a) The rete mirabile of Galen, the rete mirabile of Hovius, the ramification of the humeral artery as in the Lemur, the ramifications of the mesenteric as in the Sow, and the ramifi- cations of the renal as in the Cat, are properly generic rami- fications.XXI INTRODUCTION. descriptions from a great number of useless incum- brances, prevent trifles from mingling themselves with matters of importance, and give to our details a character of clearness, manliness, and interest, which they hitherto have not had. Should it be objected to such descriptions, that they must necessarily be vague and imperfect, the reply is, that they must certainly be vague and im- perfect considered as descriptions of any individual, just as descriptions of any individual must be vague and imperfect descriptions of the species. But al- though the uniform characters of the species be more general than the varieties of the individual, it does not follow that the description of these general cha- racters may not be fully as minute and accurate as that of the individual varieties (a). The persons most likely to censure descriptions accommodated to the species, and not to the indivi- dual, will be the verbose, who, overcharged with a multitude of words, are impelled, like Elihu the (a) It is much to be regretted that such distinctions are not •ftener made, and that the fashion of describing individuals instead of the species, is'scarcelya more common error in Ana- tomy, than the fashion in practice of prescribing for the species instead of the individual, who often swallows universal remedies recommended indiscriminately by impostors, to both sexes, and to all varieties of age, condition, previous habits, and idiosyw- rrasies.XXI1 INTRODUCTION. friend of Job, to speak that they may be refreshed : The men too of taste, fancy, and feeling, who talk of the elegant, beautiful, and wonderful, describing ob- jects, not by their real and obvious characters, but by the emotions which they had excited : and lastly, the men who esgerly aspire at makingdiscoveries, and, although extremely averse to labour, are fond of the character of deep research. To these, the varieties of each individual must present novelties that have not been explored, and although generally of a trifling nature, yet, when dressed out in fantastic solemnity, and a theory added to give them an importance, are sufficiently shewy to serve the temporary purposes of the day. But if ever the varieties of individuals deserve at- tention, it is when they can be arranged into species, when they can be traced to general causes, and when they lead to general conclusions. For it is then, and not till then, that they become objects of Science, which consists entirely of general truths, and can never be promoted by facts and observations, but such as contribute to the establishment of general conclusions. The appearances of the arteries, which I shall de- scribe as general facts, or as common to the species, shall be those I have found, with a few exceptions,INTRODUCTION. xxiii in all the individuals which I have examined during the course of these last twelve years ; appearances which I also have found in a great number of dried preparations, of which, besides those of my own col- lection, I have seen not a few; and appearances, which, as I have learned from their writings, were also found in the individuals that were seen by Eustachius, Win- slow, Lieutand, Haller, Sabatier, Murray, Portal, Boy- er,Bichat, Soemmerring, and others. What exceptions I have known from those general appearances, I shall mention, and among the number, those collected by my friend Mr. Allan Burns, of Glasgow, who, with a libera- lity which I never shall forget, has not only favoured me repeatedly with a sight of his valuable collection, but has generously offered to send me any preparation that I might wish to examine more minutely. These exceptions (a) from a more general law, though occurring but once in a hundred times, have often a strong claim to our attention, and more particularly if occurring in places where they might occasionally affect the mode and the result of surgical operations. (a) The intelligent reader need not he informed of the dif- ference between an exception and a variety. As varieties were never meant to be comprehended under the general rule, they cannot be reckoned deviations or exceptions from it.INTRODUCTION. XXIV Thus for instance, if the Surgeon were aware that the Obturator artery had even but once arisen from the trunk of the Epigastric and surrounded the neck of the hernial sack, that the common Pudic had even but once descended by the side of the Prostate Gland, or that the left inferior Thyroid had even but once arisen by a common trunk with the right, and ascended obliquely across the Trachea, not able to foresee that these anomalies might not be present in the next patient on whom he was to operate, he certainly with such cases in view, would proceed more cautiously to make his incisons on the parts concerned, and be better prepared to meet any ac- cident, should such arise from these irregularities in ramification. From such irregularities, he might also be led to suppose that others of a similar nature might occa- sionally occur, and be thereby induced to enquire into the causes that affect the functions and the ra- mifications of this system of vessels. Of these causes some are already known, some perhaps re- main to be discovered, and some discovered to be further investigated. Mental emotions, affecting the functions of every organ dependent on the nerves, affect also, and each in its own peculiar way, the functions of arteries so as to vary not only the pulsations, but to change even suddenly the state of theINTRODUCTION. XXV blood, (a) and sometimes are carried even so far as to end m madness; and by powerfully determining the b.ood to the brain, as to alter its structure. Many arteries, which in their healthy and natural state, exclude the red Globules, admit them readily on attacks of inflammation, and again exclude them when the effects of inflammation are removed; as may often be seen in cases of Ophthalmia. The vessels of the Uterus gradually enlarge in dixmeter and length, in proportion as the period of pregnancy advances, and again contract in length and diameter after parturition. In the healing of Wounds, Abscesses, and Ulcers, Arteries form new inosculations, and send out num- bers of new branches. Immediately after birth, the umbilical Arteries be- gin to diminish, and the external Iliacs to enlarge, till their former proportions are entirely reversed, Whlle the Ductus Venosus, the Ductus Arteriosus, 0) see Hew-on’s Experiments on the Blood. As morbid struct"res are often the effort of long and habitual morbid ac- i°ns, we m ly see the reason why symptoms' of disease cannot always he traced to the changes of structure, and must learn to be cautious m pronouncing the appearances of morbid structure to Have been the cau3es of the n)0rb,d action> ^ ^ ^ rtructure ,s often no more than the slow and gradual effect of ^ i^r,,0Tby 8UCh thG aCtion mainly in,reuses rapidlc t G’ 3 i H afWward!i able t0 extend its ravages more rap'dlv through the system. cINTRODUCTION. the Umbilical vein, and Foramen Ovale, are gradually closed. In short, the blood vessels, to a certain extent, ac- commodate themselves to changes of circumstances, enlarge, diminish, and even disappear according to the different exigences pf the case. This general truth, deduced from the facts that already have been mentioned, is farther confirmed by the states of the vessels in morbid structures, by the changes that follow ancurismal tumours, by the changes that fol- low the removal of these tumours in successful ope- rations, and also from, the greater number of varie- ties to be seen in the parts which are naturally sub- jected to the greatest diversity of voluntary motion. From this account we may partly see the cause why no Arteries have ever yet been characterized by the number of their branches, some deriving a name from their origin, as the External and Internal Caro- this, and Aortic Inlcrcostals ; some from the organs on which they are ramified, as the Hepatic, the Gas- tric, the Splenic ; some from their situation, as the Humeral, Radial, and Ulnar; some from the parts through which they pass, as the Obturator; some from their mode of passing, as the Perforant; some from the directions which they take, as the Rccui- rent; some from the course of their direction, as the Circumflex; some from their course considered in relation to the parts on which they run, as the Coro- nary ; some from their obvious inosculations, as theINTRODUCTION. xxvii c 2 Anastomotic ; and some ever, from a false hypothesis, as the Aorta, Carotids, and Ranina. With the names of the Arteries, I shall take few liberties, except where they lead to ambiguity or error; or where a change would simplify and improve the language of description. When they are named from their destination, or from the organs on which they are ramified, they and the organs, when the change can be made without much innovation, should always have their names from the same language. For instance, the names of the principal muscles attached to the tongue, have an al- lusion to its Greek name Glossa; while the name of the Artery has an allusion to its Latin name Lingua. It would have been better had the same epithet which distinguishes the muscles, and a pair of the nerves belonging to the tongue, been also made to distinguish the Artery. The parts of Arteries should never be described under separate heads, as if they were whole or entire Arteries; what we denominate the Subclavian, the Axillary, and the Humeral Arteries, are but different parts of the same trunk; and what we denominate the common Iliac, the external Iliac, the common Femoral, the superficial Femoral, the Popliteal, and Posterior Tibial, are different portions of another trunk. It is surely absurd, that these different parts should each have a name ; and yet, that the wholes of which they are parts should have no names. WhereINTRODUCTION. xxvm it is expedient, (and there are cases where it may be expedient,) to distinguish the parts by appropriate names, let them he distinguished by all means, but let them still be distinguished as parts, and not as wholes. As Arteries in general are ramified on the parts adjacent to their course, the course of the Artery ought first to be described to its utmost extent, in order that the student (who is always supposed to be previously acquainted with the parts adjacent,) may form at once a tolerably accurate, though general idea of the several organs on which it is ramified. For these reasons, the continuation of the trunk of an Artery should always be carefully distinguished from its branches ; a circumstance which, in the descrip- tion of the Arteries, is frequently overlooked : Thus, the Ranina is properly a continuation of the Lingual Artery; the Thyroid branch, a continuation of the Atlantal, or superior Thyroid ; the Infraorbitary, a continuation of the trunk of the internal Maxillary; and the Nasal branch, as it is called, a continuation of the trunk of the Opthalmic. Thus names are mul- tiplied without necessity, and by not following the course of the trunk, so far as it goes, we cannot so readily form an idea of the parts adjacent on which it is ramified. As all parts of the living body receive a regu- lar supply of blood, suited to their functions, and as all blood flowing in the branches ol the neighbour-INTRODUCTION. XXIX ing Arteries, is either of the same, or very nearly of the same qualities, the origin of an Artery, from which the s ipply of blood is received, is of very little con- sequence to the organ; of so little, in fact, that the same organ is frequently supplied by branches pro- ceding from different trunks. For the sake, indeed, of surgical operations, it were to be wished, that the origins and ramifications of Arteries were more regular than they are. But the general law here prescribed by the Author of Nature, seems evident- ly this, that every part shall have a supply suited to its functions, from the nearest or most convenient sources, as circumstances will admit. And that if vessels from the usual sources be deficient or wanting, ow- ing to disease, accident, habit, or primary formation, other vessels from different sources, and in different situations, shall always be in readiness to assume their office, and to furnish the supply of blood that is requisite.t . . , * ■ * • -1 »-T ,’T Ti’-'f > - » V ■ - ' ■ I 'C 4 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. A THE AORTA, OR Systemic Artery. This large Artery, ramified through every part of the system, rises from the left or Systemic Ventri- cle (a), nearly opposite to the sacral margin of the third Rib, then running behind the Pulmonic Artery, pro- ceeds dextrad slernad allanlad till nearly opposite to the sacral Margin of the first Rib. Here, on a (a) In the fetal state, as it always receives through the chan- nel of the Ductus Arteriosus a very considerable portion of its blood from the other Ventricle, this communication with the two Ventricles, though with some variations in the form of the organs, has occasionally been observed in a few individuals' several years after. See Burns on the Varieties of the larger Arteries.A DESCRIPTION OF TIIE ARTERIES. 2 sudden, changing its course, it bends -sin is trad dor- sad and sacrad, towards the third Vertebra of the Thorax. From this place, resting on the side of the Vertebral Column, a little to the left of the Mesial Plane (6), it advances to the Diaphragm, passes between the Crura of that muscle, enters the Abdomen, gra- dually inclining more towards the right, till it reaches the seat of the Mesial Plane, and at last, near the fifth of the Lumbar Vertebrae, divides equally into two large branches, that supply the Pelvis and Sacral extremities The part between the Ven- tricle, and where it first reaches the Vertebrae, has been named its Arch. From the Arch to the Dia- phragm, it is called Thoracic (c), and from the Dia- phragm to its division. Abdominal Aorta. Its three Valves are at its commencement; when they fall back from its centre to its sides, they cover three depressions, which have been named the Sinuses of Morgagni. (b) In these singular cases, where the apex of the heart points to the right, the situation and course of this Artery, as to right and left, will be somewhat reversed. (c) It is hard to conceive what kind of ideas floated in the brain, when the term Thoracic was first employed to distinguish this part of the Aorta from its Arch: Both are equally in the cavity of the Thorax ; and if both do not equally furnish it with blood, yet both evidently furnish a share. The arc bed and the straight Thoracic Aorta, though not absolutely correct, would have certainly been a language more clear and distinct.3 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. From the base of the Ventricle to the summit of the Arch, it is larger in diameter than at any other part of its course; this portion has been named the great Sinus of the Aorta. From the Arch issue the branches that supply the Heart, the Head, the Neck, the Atlantal extremities, and part of the Thorax. From the straight Thoracic portion, the branches that supply the remainder of the Thorax, and its Viscera ; and from the Abdomi- nal, the branches that supply the Abdomen and its Viscera, the Sexual organs, and the Sacral extre- mities. When it sends branches to parts that are situated in the Mesial Plane, or to parts whose attachments are in that Plane, or to parts that are single, the branches which it sends are usually single. But in all other cases, from the similarity of the two halves on each side of the Mesial Plane, it generally sends out branches in pairs, of which only one of the halves requires to be described. BRANCHES FROM THE ARCH. The Branches from the Arch are (cZ) the two Cardiac Arteries ; the common trunk of the Right (rf) The cases are rare where a Vertebral Artery, a Thyroid, a Thymic, a Pericardiac, or internal Mammary, arise from the Arch.4 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Cephalic, and the Right Brachial (e), usually called Arteria Anonyma, or Innominata ; the Left Cephalic, and the Left Brachial (/). (e) The terms Cardiac and Cephalic are borrowed from Chaussier, and applied to the Arteries in allusion to the parts on which they are ramified: Cardiac expressing what belongs to the heart, and Cephalic what belongs to the head ; Carotis Communis, the usual name for the Cephalic, being in al- lusion to a false hypothesis, suggests no idea of either its course or its destination. The term Brachial naturally expresses what belongs to the Brachium, a word that denotes the Atlantal extremity, from the top of the Shoulder to the points of the Fingers. This term has sometimes been used to signify, merely, that portion of the Artery which lies on the Humerus, as the two terms. Sub- clavian and Axillary, signify the portions under the Clavicle and in the Axilla. But as it is proper that the whole should have a name, as well as the parts, I have chosen Brachial as a general epithet expressive of the organ through which it principally distributes its branches. (/) Cuvier, in speaking of the Mammalia, (xxv Leyon, B.) says you may find in the different animals of that class, examples nearly of all the kinds of ramification that Anatomists hitherto have found in Man. In some, the branches arising from the Arch, are similar to those of the human species. In others, the Aorta, immediately after leaving the Ventricle, divides into two, an ascending and descending Aorta, where the first afterwards separates into halves, that each half may send off the Bra- chial and Cephalic Arteries of its own side. In others, the c 6A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. dans les autret Poissons, I ejou xxv. Art. I. r'ght Brachial, and the two Ccphalics, are observed to arise by a common trunk. , The Aorta in birds, which bends to the right immediately upon its leaving the Ventricle, gives out two branches, of which the left always takes precedence in point of origin. These two branches, like the divisions of the ascending Aorta, also send off the Brachial and Cephalic branches of their own sides. The Aorta, in Cuvier’s Class of Reptilia, divides differently according to the Orders and Genera of the class. In some, the heart has two Auricles, and two Ventricles, imperfectly divided. In others, marks of division disappear, and the heart has dis- tinctly but one Auricle and one Ventricle. In some of the Orders where there are two, three Arteries issue from the heart, which would be very nearly the appearance that we see in some of the class of Mammalia, were the two Aortas to open by sepa- rate mouths from their Ventricle. In others, two Arteries issue from tlie heart, which approaches nearer to the appearance that we see in Man, and in those Mammalia that most nearly re- semble him. In others, the Aorta, instead of the branches that send off the Arteries of the opposite sides, divides into two se- perate trunks, that afterwards unite. The Aorta of the Ray proceeds from the Heart, directly At- lantad, sends off near its origin two lateral branches, and after- wards terminates in other two. These four branches are each d i- vided into smaller branches, which running along the Branchial Arches, on their concave side, and sending Ratnuli to the folds that radiate from their convex side, are afterwards united in a common trunk that runs along the Vertebral Column, on its Sternal aspect This last description is from a preparation that is now before me, and Cuvier, who describes'the other Arteries of the Genus Ray, concludes with saying, Telle est la distribu- tion generate des Artfcres dans la Ruin. Elle est peu different*A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 6 ARTERI.E CARDIACS, seu Coronarice Cordis. (g) These Arteries arise from the Aorta within the Pericardium, generally beyond the Sinuses of Mor- gagni ; the right runs dextrad between the Pulmonic Auricle and Ventricle, until it reaches the Cardiac Septum on the dorsal aspect, then changes its course, and accompanies the Septum as far as the Apex. The left runs sinistrad between the Systemic Auricle and Ventricle, till it reaches the Septum on the sternal aspect, there it sends off a branch, continuing the line of its first direction, but passes itself along the Septum, and inosculates with the right Cardiac at the Apex. These two Arteries, by their numerous branches, supply the two Ventricles, the two Auricles, and the (g) Three Cardiac Arteries are rare, and those cases where but one has occurred, though such have been mentioned by Galen and others, were never seen by Haller. 1 have lately seen a case, where the right Cardiac did not reach dextrad so far as the Septum, and where the circumflex branch of the left Cardiac, of an uncommonly large size, was observed going round to supply its place,A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 7 coats of the vessels within the Pericardium. Some of their branches are even reflected on the Pericar- dium, where they inosculate with small branches of what are called the internal Mammaries, and others accompanying the large vessels as far as the lungs, have been observed to inosculate with the Bronchials. Their branches to the Auricles, the coats of the vessels, and the Pericardium, when compared to those that are ramified on the Ventricles, are extremely small. Some exhalant branches opening into the Ven- tricles, and occasionally injected from communicating veins, as well as from their trunks, have sometimes been viewed as belonging to the Arteries, and some- times again, as belonging to the Veins. As belonging to the Arteries, they have been termed the Arteries of Vieussenius; as belonging to the Veins, the Veins of Thebesius. Sabatier never could observe these vessels. Portal saw them, and probably the success of tracing and injecting them, depends much upon the state of the heart and vessels at the time. Not- withstanding the facility with which Thebesius made his Probes to pass through them in a Bullock’s heart, I doubt much, if they ever admitted red globules in the healthy and living state of that organ.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 8 ARTERIA ANONYMA, i<- seu Innominala. This common trunk of the right Cephalic, and the right Brachial, rises near the summit of the Arch beyond the Pericardium, and divides nearly op- posite to the Atlantal extremity of the Sternum (/*). (A) It has been observed on- the Sternal aspect of the Trachea, extending Atlantad as far as the coniines of the Thyroid Gland. See Burns on Varieties of the larger Arteries. The Cephalic and Brachial, to which it gives origin, sometimes arise from the Aorta, but then the form of the Arch is different, and its span more extended. In the usual form of the Arch, this common trunk becomes necessary to preserve an equality of the circulating fluids in the two sides. For supposing the Brachial and Cephalic branches of the same magnitudes, as when they arise from the common trunk, to rise separately from the Arch of the Aorta in its usual form, the one next the Ventricle, opening obliquely on the side of the current, would receive proportionally much less blood, than the one whose orifice is situated higher, and mere directly opposed to its force. The left Brachial and Cephalic, and the two Cephalies, have been seen originating by common trunks. See Portal. Soem- merring saw a case where two trunks only rose from the Arch, one sending off the two Cephalies, and the other the two Bra- ehials. The cases where the right Cephalic and Brachial arise from the Ventricle, and not from the Aorta, and the case of two Aortas, as in quadrupeds, where the one called ascending, sent off the Brachial and Cephalic Arteries, have repeatedly been9 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Portal, and several other Anatomists, are inclined to view it as the commencement of the right Brachial, and the more so, that it bends towards the Axilla, mentioned, but not repeatedly observed. See Portal, Tableau Cbronologique et Journal des Savans, 1668. Even the case mentioned by Walter, where the right Brachial, and the two Cephalies, arose together by a common trunk, although often seen in comparative Anatomy, (Cuvier, xxv Leyon, Art 1.) is rarely observed in the human species, although from the close contiguity of the trunks in some cases, very easily fancied. The case quoted by Soemmerriug from Malacarne, where two Aortas arose from the Ventricle, and which were united after each had given out the Encephalic,- the Pericephalic, and the Brachial Arteries of its own side, and the case quoted by Haller from Hommelius, where the Arch divided into two branches that afterwards united, and which left between them an an- nular-like space, for the passage of the Trachea and (Eso- phagus, the Sternal branch sending off the left Cephalic, and left Brachial, and the Dorsal branch, the corresponding Ar- teries of the opposite side, might rather be termed unnatural appearances, than exceptions from the usual ramifications. The case, however, mentioned by Hunauld, has a fairer title to the name of an exception. Where the first branch arising from the Arch was the common trunk of the two Cephalies, then the left Brachial, and then the right, the last trunk being afterwards retlected to its own side, like that mentioned by Dr. Monro, jun. which returning dextrad between the (Esophagus and Trachea might have been, he thinks, the cause of Dyspha- gia. With a similar origin the Right Brachial sometimes returns between the (Esophagus and Vertebral Column. See Soem. Haller, remarking that all such cases are extremely rare, expresses a hope, that, after dissecting forty bodies, he nr10 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. and gives out occasionally the Thymic, the Me- diastinal, the Pericardiac, and the Diaphragmatic- branches, that usually arise from the Brachial Artery. ARTERLE CEPHALICiE, seu Carotides Communes. Of these two Arteries, the right is the shorter, and from the inclinations of the Aorta, situated more to the Sternal aspect. Both are always in the close vicinity of the Trachea, appearing first near one ano- ther on its Sternal aspect, but soon diverging allantad and dorsad towards the seat of the Longi Colli, and Recti Capitis Interni Majores; here they run parallel alongthesides of itand the (Esophagus,and soon after, when nearly opposite the Atlantal margin of the Thy- roid Cartilage, separate each into two branches (t); the Encephalic ramified chiefly on the parts within be allowed to obtain some credit for his assertion; and, indeed, Soemmerring, who describes here a number of exceptions from the general rule, has described but few- from liis own ob- servation. (i) In rare cases, the Cephalics send out anomalous branches before they divide. In other rare cases they divide sooner, and in cases still rarer divide not at all; the continued Trunks, as they run along to the base of the Cranium, sending off the branches that usually belong to the Pericephalics when they are present. See Burns’ Varieties of the larger Arteries.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 11 the Cranium, and the Pericephalic ramified chiefly on the parts Without. Through most of their course, they are found con- nected by Cellular membrane, with the Internal Ju- gular Veins seen on their Lateral and Sternal aspects, the eight pair of Nerves on their Lateral and Dorsal, and the Great Symphathetics on their Dorsal aspect, the muscles interposed between them and the cutis, being the two Latissimi Colli, the Sternomastoidei, the Omohyeidei, the Sternothyroidei, and Sterno- hyoidei, although none of these muscles intervene throughout, excepting the two Latissimi Colli. Their two branches, the Encephalic and the Pe- ricephalic, have long been observed by many Ana- tomists to be of different proportional magnitudes, according to the different periods of life, and the truth seems to be, that they vary their size with the magnitudes of the parts on which they are ramified. Tlie Encephalic is, in general, propor- tionally larger in the Foetus, as the Brain of the Foetus is proportionally larger than that of the Adult. But another cause occasionally combines in varying the proportion. The Superior Thyroid often rises as the third branch of the Cephalic ; and though this branch be often proportionally larger in the Foetus, yet, at all times, by rising either from the Encepha- lic, or the Pericephalic, it determines the mag- nitude to be greatest on the side on which it pre- ponderates.A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. 12 ARTERIA PERICEPHALICA, seu Carolis Exlerna. This Artery; at its commencement more slemad and mesiad than the Encephalic, is soon afterwards observed to cross it in a lateral direction, following a course atlantad and dorsad, beneath the angle of the Basilar Maxilla, and under the Biventer, and Sty- lohyoideus, towards the seat of the Parotid Gland. Proceeding afterwards through that Gland, till it reaches the neck of the Condyloid Process of the Basi- lar Maxilla, it at last divides into two branches, that are named theTEMPORAL and Internal Maxillary, having previously sent off, separately, or in trunks common to two, the Atlantal, or Superior Thy- roid, the Lingual, the Pharyngeal, the Labial, the Occipital, and Auricular (£) branches. (A) The order in which these branches are named, is gene- rally the order in which they are observed to rise from the trunk, although the laws which regulate these appearances, seem not to be very rigid or defined. In one preparation belong- ing to Mr. Bums, the trunk itself is a short stem, from the end of which, its branches diverge like Radii from a centre. In an- other, which has been mentioned already, all these branches arise directly from the Cephalic. At the same time, it must be confessed, that such deviations are extremely rare, as Haller, who examined the Arteries of the Neck, in fifty bodies, and has also been particularly minute in his remarks, has never taken notice of any such anomalies.13 A DESCRIPTION OF TIIE ARTERIES. ATLANTOTHYROIDEA, seu Thyroidea Superior (/')., Runs sacrad mesiad and steruad, and passing under the Omohyoideus and Sternothyroideus, at last ter- Instead of wondering at these exceptions from the general rule, we should rather be surprised that they are so few, and occur so seldom, considering that the parts on which these ves- sels are ramified, are principally organs of voluntary motion ; and regularly furnished with two sets of veins, superficial and deep. Even the forms and relative positions of these organs undergo changes. The two Rami of the Basilar Maxilla, in rising from the base, gradually approach nearer and nearer to the perpendicular as they advance towards maturity, while the length of the teeth, and deepening of the Jaw, and expansion of the Thorax, where the Vertebrae of the neck are not equally elongated, bring the Chin and the Sternum proportionally nearer, generally nearer in the Adult Male than they are in the Female, and nearer in the female than they are in the Fcetus, and farther as the Jaw is not only deepened, but, compared with the Cra- nium, more than proportionally lengthened in its growth ; and the head of the Sternum not only raised, but projected forwards, the two Cephalies, and their two branches must, with the Tra- chea and the (Esophagus, lie in general proportionally deeper in the adult male than they do in the female, and deeper in the female than they do in the Fcetus. (0 In certain cases, not extremely rare, it rises as aj.hird trunk of the Cephalic. Boyer saw it rising by a common trunk with the lingual, and Mr Burns writes me, that he has lately seen it rising with the lingual, by a common trunk from the Cephalic ; that the lingual afterwards run along the lateral mar-A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. 14 minates in the Thyroid Gland, where some of it* branches, crossing the Trachea, inosculate with their fellows of the opposite side, and others continuing on the same side, inosculate with branches of the Sacro- thyroid, from the Brachial Artery. The adjacent parts to which it sends branches, are the Os Hyoides, the Ligament between it and the Thyroid Cartilage, the muscles of the Larynx, the Thyropharyngeus, the Cricopharyngeus, the Thyro- hyoideus, the Sternothyroideus, the Omohyoideus, the Stcrnomastoideus the Latisssimus Colli, and the Cutis Its Laryngeal Branch (?«). Its branch supplying the muscles of the Larynx, is named the Laryngeal. It penetrates the membranes gin of the Thyrohyo.deus, crossed the cormi of the Os hyoides, and before entering the substance of the tongue, sent off the ascending Palatine branch. Haller saw it sending a branch to the Thymic Gland. He saw it in the Foetus and in the adult not inferior in size to the Encephalic, and he saw it equal in size to the rest of the Pericephalic, wheu he scarcely could observe any appearance of an Inferior or Sacrothyroid. He saw it extremely small on one side, and so large on the other, that it principally supplied both lobes of the Gland. And he oftener than once saw it sending off a Subcutaneous branch, that run on the sternal aspect of the neck, as far as the Thorax, and inosculated with branches from the Mammary Artery. See Fascic. u and vm. (m) Five times out of fifty, or in the proportion of one to ten, H aller observed this branch rising as a separate trunk from theA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 15 between the Os Hyoidcs, and the Thyroid Cartilage, is afterwards ramified upon the Membrane lining the Larynx, on the Epiglottis, on the Cartilages, and on half of the muscles attached to the two Aryta-noid Cartilages', and in places where its ramuli approach the Mesial Plane, they inosculate with the ramuli of the opposite Thyroid. ARTERIA LINGUALIS (w) Runs at first sternad and mesiad, then ailantad and mesiad, and then sternad and mesiad again, to the Apex of the tongue. In this course, com- mencing close b}’ the side of the Pharynx, and run- ning ailantad of the Os Hyoides, peripherad, or ceulrad of the Hyoglossus, it always penetrates the Pericephalic, accompanied, as it generally or always is, by the Laryngeal nerve. It has also been seen perforating the Thyroid Cartilage, and, according to Murray, sometimes entering be- tween the Thyroid and the Cricoid Cartilages. The central parts of the Larynx are principally supplied by it and its fellow, the branches from the Sacrothyroid that enter the Larynx, being in general so smajl, that some mention them, as Boyer, and others omit them, as Bichat’s Continuator, and Sabatier. (n) Seven times in fifty, Haller observed this Artery rising by a common trunk with the Labial.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 16 ) Genioglossus, and from thence stretclies onward along the Basilar aspect of the tongue, to its termination. The adjacent parts to which it usually sends off branches are the Hyopharyngeus, the Hvoglossus, the Geniohyoglossus, the Os Hyoides (o), the Mylo- hyoideus, the Stylohyoideus, the Thyrohyoideus, the Sternohyoideus, the Omohyoideus, and Biventer Max- illae, the Epiglottis, the Amygdaloid Glands, the Pen- dulous Velum, the tongue itself, theFraenum Linguae, and Sublingual Glands. Its Sublingual Branch. Before it penetrates the Genioglossus, it al- ways gives out a superficial branch, called the Sub- lingual ; and when that is large, many Ana- tomists, considering the place where this branch arises as the termination of the trunk, describe the natural continuation of the trunk, as if it were a branch, under the name of Arteria Ranina (/;). The Sublingual branch is seen between the Geniohyoideus and Mylohyoideus, sending its Ramuli to the parts' (o) The branch to the Os hyoides, and muscles adjacent, is named by Haller the Ramus hyoideus, and arises sometimes from the Pericephalic. (p) According to Portal, the Arteria: Ranina; are the branches ramified on the Frsenum.17 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. adjacent,. When large, its branches are continued through the Mylohyoideus, and afterwards ramified on the Biventer, the Latissimus Colli, the muscles of the Basilar Lip, and Integuments. When small, it terminates near the Symphysis Menti, but always, says Haller, is a regular branch. ARTERIA PHARYNGEA. (q) This Artery, excepting the Auricular, the smallest of all the regular branches of the Pericephalic, ascends between the Pharynx and the Rectus Capitis Internus Major to the base of the Cranium. The Anatomist who distinctly recollects its posi- tion, end the relative situations of the parts adjacent, must instantly be able to form an idea how it is ramified, and know from its magnitude, that its branches, if numerous, must also be small. These branches or ramuli fire sent to the Pharynx, and the muscles of the Pharynx atlanlad of its origin, to (q) There are rarely two, and more rarefy three Pharyngeal Arteries, though such have been seen by Haller and Soemiher- ring. When two, both Haller and Soommerring have seen one of them from the Cephalic, and one from the Encephalic. Sabatier has seen the single Pharyngeal rising in common with the Labial Artery, and Haller has seen it rising entirely from the Occipital.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. IS the two Recti Capitis intern i, the Longus Colli, the Eustachian Tube, sometimes to the Tympanum, the Sphenoidal bone, the Pterygoid canal, and to the inial part of the nostrils, to the muscles belonging to the Pendulous velum, to the Tonsils and Uvula, later ad to the ganglion of the great Intercostal, to the Par vagum, and ninth pair of nerves, sometimes even to the Sternomastoideus, and conglobate glands, while a branch accompanying the Jugular vein ascends into the Cranium, and is afterwards ramified on the Dura Mater, extending occasionally to the Cavernous Sinuses. ARTERIA LABIALIS (r) Appearing first by the side of the Pharynx, under the Biventer and Stylohyoideus,'it immediately pro- (r) Named also the Facial, the Angular, and External Maxillary. Sabatier has seen it rising in c ommon with the Pharyngeal. It also has been seen rising in common with the Lingual Artery. Haller saw it terminating sometimes in the Coronary Artery of the Basilar Lip; and, at other times, ex- tending as far as the orbits and musmlus frontalis. Mr. Burnt has seen it also terminating at the Basilar Lip. But, “ raro “ Labin non adit,” says Haller. Where its branches are de- fective, their place is supplied by ramifications from the. Temporal Artery. To the many varieties of this Artery, men- tioned in the notes to his third Fasciculus, Haller has added a great many more in the notes which accompany his eight Fasciculus.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 19 coeds Atlanlad and Slernad through the depression of the Maxillary Gland, then winds over the base of the Maxilla, near the antinial margin of its ramus; from thence advances to the angle of the mouth be- tween the Zygomatics and Buccinator, and then stretches to the Ala of the nose, where it inoscu- lates with what is considered the nasal branch of the Opthalmic (#). Palatine Branch. In this course, the first branch which it gives out ‘s named the Palatine. It is seen lying on the side of the Pharynx, near the Inial Margin of the Ptery- goidcus Interims, and dividing into two as it ap- proaches the Petrostaphyfinus. The pans on which it is usually ramified, are the Pterygoideus Interims, the Stylohyoideus, the Styloglossus, the Stylopha- ryngeus, the Tongue, the Tonsils, the Eustachian lube, the Splieno and Petro-staphyline Muscles, the Pendulous Velum, the Palate Bone, and Uvula.' 1 lie 1 rank afterwards sends out branches directly from itself to the Pterygoid Muscle; branches to 0) In eodem cadavere. Vidi in dextro latere omnes nasales ab Opthalmica profectas esse neque a Labiali quid- q-.am ad nasu.n v, „isse, <.um in altero latere Ubialis magim ‘fora et fere sola duos arcus nasales ederct. Halt. Fatcic. vii,. n*20 A DESCRIPTION Of THE ARTERIES. the Tonsil (<!), the Stylohyoideus, the Styloglossus, and the Hyoglossus; numerous branches to the Maxillary Gland ; whence branches to the Mem- brane of the mouth, and to the tongue, to the Glosso- pharyngeus, Mylopharyngeus, Pterygopharyngeus, Cephalopharyngeus ; branches running antiniad and lalerad to the Mylohyoideus, and sometimes to the Cutis. Submental Branch. One of these branches rising in the seat of the Maxillary Gland, is often so large that it has re- ceived an appropriate name, and been called the Submental or Submaxillary Artery. It runs peri- pherad of the Mylohyoideus, between the Biventer and the Maxilla, and cenirad of the Latissimus Colli. It usually divides at the lateral margin of the Biventer, near the Symphysis Menti, into two branches, one of these proceeding mesiad across the Biventer, and the other reflected over the Jaw. When it is large, the size of the Sublingual is pro- portionally small, and vice versa. When it arises from the Pericephalic, as it sometimes does, it sends off the greatest number of the branches that are co A similar branch sometimes rises from the Pericephalic, but raro carotidis ramus, boemmerring.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 21 usually ramified on the Maxillary Gland, and most of the branches which are usually sent from that situation to the muscles of the Pharynx and Isthmus Fauci um. Passing now the base of the Maxilla, the Labial Artery branches out copiously upon the Masseter and Buccinator, and generally through the medium of a large branch upon the Basilar Lip. At the angle of the mouth it sends out branches to the Zygomatlcs and the Levatores Labii, while two branches, pri- mary or secondary, are seen running on the margin <>f the Lips, under the name of Coronary Arteries, and from one of the Coronaries next to the nose, a branch running parallel to the mesial plane, to be afterwards ramified on the Nasal Septum. When the Coronaries meet from the opposite sides, they form what is called a Corona (u), or ring, on the margin of the lips ; and, it has been observed, that when the Coronaries from one side are large, the After reading the descriptions of the Labial Artery, as given * ' er, Sabatier, Murray, Portal, Bichat’s Continuator, Soernmernng, Boyer, Bell, Fyfe, and comparing some of my own preparations, where the different branches of the Peri- cepnahe are minutely injected, I could not venture to be more particular „,y descriptions, without the risque of detailing the varieties of individuals. «£,Z: :nrc~ vidi *—<■ —«-A DESCRIPTION OV THE ARTERIES. 22 Coronaries from the other are proportionally small. I have seen the appearance, but, like many of the tortuous windings of the Arteries, had been led to explain it from some difference in the force of the injection. ARTERIA OCCIPITALIS (tl) Rises behind tile Biventer Maxilla, and crossing the Internal Jugular slcrnad, follows a direction I,derad and dorsad-, till it reaches the space between the transverse process of the Atlas and the mastoid process of the Temporal Bone. From this station, having passed the Rectus Capitis Lateralis, it sinks under the Stemo-Mastoideus, and after running dorsad and mesiad, generally peripherad of the Corn- plexus, it emerges at last in the space between the Splenii, ascends the transverse ridge ol the Orapu , to which, for a while, it had run nearly parallel, and then divides into different branches that spread mesiad, cormad, and laterad, inosculating with their fellows of the opposite sides, and with branches from the Temporal and Auricular Arteries ; the principal parts oil which they are ramified being the integu- ments and Epicranius, Periosteum and bones, though w Seen .nee by Haller taking its origin fmaithe Elite- phalio, or lutcrual Carotid.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 2 3 some of them are large enough to be traced oc- casionally penetrating the Lambdoidal Suture to the Dura Mater. In this course, as it passes the Internal Jugular Vein, it sends along the coats of that vessel a branch that usually enters the Cranium, and inosculates afterwards with the Meningeals. The other branches which it gives out to the Biventer, the Stylohyoideus, the Auricle, the Glands, the Trachelomastoideus, the Sternomastoideus, the Complexus, the Splenius, the Trapezius, the In- teguments, the Obliquus Capitis Superior, the two Recti Capitis Postici, and the branches inosculating with the Vertebral Artery, are merely the branches which it naturally gives out to the parts adjacent, among which there is usually observed a Cervical branch, that is more or less extensively ramified on the dorsal and lateral parts of the neck, and observed to inosculate with branches proceeding indirectly or ultimately from the Brachial Artery. ARTERIA AURICULAIIIS (w). It rises generally by an acute angle, near the extremity of the Styloid process, and proceeding (--») Haller saw it three or four times rising from the Oc- ZtlT:and 1 have seen ;t’in one prcpar:iti°'*> ** not ArterZI 10" ,nt° the Temp0ral and hlt'-'rnal Maxillary24 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. < through the substance of the Parotid, runs iniad and laicrad to the fold or depression between the Mastoid process and Auricle, when it spreads into branches ramified on the convex part of the Auricle, and the muscles attached to it, on the Mastoid pro- cess, and the muscles which are there, and into branches which extending coronad iniad glabellad inosculate with branches from the Occipital and Temporal Arteries. In its course to the Mastoid process and Auricle, it sends out a number of small branches to the Parotid, and generally a branch called the Stylo- mastoid to the Foramen Stylomastoideum. ’After entering the Foramen, transmits Ramuli to the Mastoid cells, to the Meatus Auditorius Externus, the Membrana Tympani, the Stapedius, says Haller, and the External Semicir- cular Canal, and these branches meeting with others from the Meningeal and Articular Arteries, par- ticularly on the Membrane, in the Meatus, and in the coronal part of the Tympanum, are observed to communicate by a variety of Anastomoses. (jr) Haller saw it twice from the Occipital Artery, once as a primary branch of the Pericephalic, but generally as a branch of the Auricular. The Stylomastoid (>r) \A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. 25 ARTERIA ORBITO-MAXILLARIS, (l/) seu Max ilia r is Interna. One of the brandies that terminates the Trunk of the Pericephalic, rises near the neck of the Con- dyloid process of the Basilar Maxilla, and from (y) As the Maxillary bones have never been distinguished by such epithets as external and internal, the terms external and internal Maxillary, could never have been meant to ex- press the Arteries particularly ramified on these bones. The tru'h is, the external Maxillary received its name merely from the circumstance of crossing superficially the Basilar Maxilla in its passage to the lips ; and this circumstance, not generally deemed a sufficient reason for imposing the name, some Anatomists have chosen to call it the Angular Artery, from its crossing near the Angle of the Jaw; others, the Facial, from its being ramified on a part of the face j while Haller, after assigning his reasons, has called it the Labial, and been followed by most Anatomists since his time. The tenn Sub- maxillary being also laid aside for the term Submental, the only Arteries now called Maxillary, is that Artery which, stretching from the neck of the Condyloid process of the Basi- lar Maxilla towards the Spheno-Maxillary fissure, is after- wards reflected forward through the Orbit, under the name of the lnfra-orbitary, and a branch of that Artery which, enter- D 4-A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 2G thence, observing a mesial direction, with some tor- tuous windings, proceeds to the Splieno-Maxillary fissure, where reaching the inial part of the orbit, it bends aniiniad along the canal of the Maxillary bone, and passing through the Infra-Orbitary hole, branches out on the muscles of the Lip, the Gums, Alveolar processes, and Teeth, inosculating with branches from the Labial, Opthalmic, and Temporal Arteries. The Anatomist, previously and intimately acquaint- ed with the bones, the muscles, and their relative situations, as he always ought to be, before he enters upon the study of Angeiology, will instantly perceive ing the canal of the Basilar Maxilla, emerges through one of the Foramina Menti to be ramified on the ymin, or chin. The first of these is named the Internal, the second, the Inferior Maxillary Artery, though the first has no corresponding branch called the external, nor the second any corresponding branch called the superior. This language, from implying relations that do not exist, is apt to mislead ; and, therefore, I propose to call the first, from its passing through the Orbit, the Orbito- maxillary, and the second, from its being ramified on the chin, the Genio-maxillary ; the term Genio being already familiar to Anatomists, from its enteriug into the uames of the Genio- hyoideus and Geniohyoglossus. Mr. Burns mentions one case, where the Labial and Tem- poral branches terminated the Pericephalic, and where the Orbito-maxillary sent off the Submental. In short, the usual origins were transposed.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. §7 that tins Artery, at its commencement, must be near tiie Meatus Auditorius Externus, the Articular de- pression in the Temporal bone, and Masseter muscle ; that running on the central aspect of the Maxillary Ramus, it must pass near the Temporal muscle and the two-Pterygoids; near the canal in the Basilar Maxilla, the Foramen Spinosum, and Foramen Ovale of the Os Sphenoides, the Buccinator, the Maxillary Tuber, the Pterygopalatine canal, the Sphenopalatine hole, and when bending antimad through the canal in the bottom of the Orbit, must pass along the Coronal part of the Maxillary Antre. From this previous knowledge of the situation, he will naturally anticipate most of the parts on which it is ramified, requiring only to be further informed with respect to the manner and extent of the ramifi- cation of particular branches. That information I shall try to convey in the following description. • A ®amulus of branch, distributed upon the Articular depression, has been seen passing through the fissure of Glasserus, entering the Tympanum, and inosculating with Ramuli of the Stylomastoid. The branches sent to the Temporal muscle are generally two a„d are observed to run close the bone, from which the fibres of the muscle originate thTo^ I ?rbi* b™,ehe to the Oibit and Lacrymal Gland.~8 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. / The Gcniomaxillary Branch, called the Inferior Maxillary, and which I have pro- posed to distinguish by the name of the Genio- maxillary, immediately before it enters the canal, sends that branch to the Internal Pterygoid, which leaves a depression in the Maxillary Ramus. On entering the canal it runs basilad, till it reaches near the base of the Jaw, then bends antiniad be- tween the base and the fangs of the Teeth, sending Ramuli to each of the Teeth, and their Alveolar processes. Arriving at the Foramen Menti, it sends branches onward to the Incisures, and at last, emerging through the Foramen, is seen spreading into several branches upon the muscles of the Basilar Lip, inosculating freely with the branches proceeding from the Labial Artery. The Foramen Ovale being very near the Foramen Spinosum, a Ramulus is observed running along the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves to the Dura Mater. Meningeal Branch (z). The branch that enters the Foramen Spinosum is always conspicuous, and is well denominated the (z) Sabatier saw this Artery entering the Cranium by the Squamous Suture, “ au Milieu de la Suture qui unit cet os (le “ temporal) avec le parietal," and afterwards ramified in the usual way.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 2[) Meningeal. It spreads coronad iniad glabellad on the Dura Mater, and is the vessel that occasions these arborescent-like depressions (a) on the cen- tral aspect of the Parietal and Temporal bones, and on the Temporal processes of the Sphenoidal (l>.) In its course towards the Foramen Spinosum, it occasionally has been seen sending branches to the parts adjacent, and on reaching the Foramen, it has always been seen giving out branches to tile tube of Eustachius, and the neighbouring space between the Temporal and Sphenoidal bones. On entering the Cranium, a branch, in many individuals, is seen running iniad on the Coronal aspect of the petrous portion of the Temporal bone, and passing with a twig of the fifth pair of nerves into the canal of the Portia Dura, was observed by Haller sending a Ramulus to the cavity of the Tympanum. 00 Though generally i„ a depression or groove where it first reaches the Parietal bone, it is sometimes, however, ound m a canal between the two tables of the bone. This I a\e eftener than once observed, and so has Sabatier, who mentions the precautions which Surgeons should adopt in per- forming here the operation of Trepan. <i> Sometime. „ere of ltl„e branci,e, the U>. Ittd eternity of lhe Sphe.o.c, ^ rwards ramified on the Lacrymal Gland. D 6A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 30 Buccal Branch. The branch called the Buccal frequently extends its ramifications through the Buccinator to the angle of the mouth (c) ; while the branch called the Alveo- lar (d) is ramified on the Gums, the Alveolar pro- cesses, the Tuber, the Antre, and the Teeth. (c) Nunc peculiars est Carotidis Surculus. nunc Surculus Arteriae Temporalis profund® vel Alveolar is vel lufraorbitalis. Suemmerring. (d) Like the Buccal, very irregular in size and origin, the Alveolar is sometimes a primary, and sometimes only a secondary branch of the Orbitomaxillary. It is the trunk, however, of the Artery which Haller has dignified with the name of Denlalis Maxilla: Superioris. Earn Dentalem, says lie, in junioribus prosecutus sum. In general, a great num- ber of small Ramuli are seen entering the Tuber and Alveo- lar processes, but seldom any branch, very distinguish- able from the rest in magnitude, particularly in adults. The first person who minutely described the Orbitomaxillary Ar- tery, was Haller, in 1145. The description which he then gave, is with little variation to be found in most of the Systems of Anatomy published since his time. But unfortunately the Artery has not been found so regularly uniform as the de- scription; most individuals presenting varieties with respect to the manner and order in which the different branches ongi- nate, with respect also to their relative magnitudes, and the extent of their ramifications.SI A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. The Pterygopalatine, or Plerygopalatines, pass through the Pterygopalatine canal branch on the Velum, Uvula, and Tonsils, and the Palate of the mouth, where a branch is reflected through the Foramen Incisivum to the nostrils. The Sphenopalatine, or Sphenopalatines, are rami- fied extensively through the cavity of the nostrils, and more especially towards the coronal and the inial aspects. The Suprema Pharyngea, or highest Pharyngeal, when it is present, sends a branch to the Vidian Foramen, and branches to the body of the Os Sphe- noides and Cephalopharyngei. The trunk, continued through the canal in the bottom of the Orbit, gives sometimes out a branch that runs back on the second branch of the fifth 9 pair to the Dura Mater; it also gives branches to the Periosteum within the Orbit, branches that in- osculate with ramifications of the Opthalmic, and branches that descend to the Maxillary Antre. ARTERIA TEMPORALIS. This Artery continues the direction of the Peri- cephalic, runs through the substance of the Parotid, and proceeding coronad between the Auricle and theA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 32 inial margin of the Maxillary Ramus, at last crosses the Zygomatic Arch, and upon the fascia of the Temporal muscle divides into two conspicuous branches, the one spreading into ramifications coro- nad and iniad, the other spreading into ramifications coronad and glabellad. The first inosculating with the Occipital and Auricular Arteries, the second with branches reflected on the forehead from the Opthalmic, and both inosculating at the mesial plane with their fellows ramified on the opposite side. Between its origin and the Zygoma, this Tem- poral Artery gives out branches to the Parotid, to the Masseter, and transverse branches towards the nose, the coronal Lip (e), and the Orbicular muscles of the Orbit. It sends also branches .to the Auricle which, usually running to the convex side, inosculate with branches from the Auricular ; branches to the Meatus Auditorius Externus, and a branch to the (e) Sometimes gives off the Coronary Artery of the upper lip, when the Labial Artery is small or defective. In addition to the regular branches from the Pericephalic, Portal has given a long description of certain branches from this Artery, which he calls the Masseteric. He has seen them from oiie to four in number, and observes they are irregular in size and distribution. I have seen them also extending trans- versely across the Masseter,. and supplying the place of trans-33 A DESCRIPTION OF T11E ARTERIES. Articular depression, sending a Ramulus through the fissure of Glasserus, to inosculate in the Tympanum with the Stylomastoid ; a branch too that penetrates verse branches from the Temporal Artery. But on no ac- count do they seem entitled to rank with the branches regu- larly proceeding from the Pericephalic. The C'ontinuator of Bichat observes, that the several branches of the Pericephalic may be arranged into three classes. The first class ramified on the organs of voice and respiration. The second on the first organs of Digestion, Aux premiers organes de la Digestion. The third on the face, which class, he says, is naturally di- vided into two orders, one ramified towards the surface, and the other ramified through the deep cavities. But admitting these arrangements, and that the organs of mastication and deglutition, are organs of digestion, what purposes, curious or useful, are such arrangements calculated to serve ? Do these Arteries, in consequence of any difference of function exercised by the organs on which they are rami- fied, exhibit any difference of Character, Generic or Specific, by which we can distinguish an Artery ramified on an organ of voice, from an Artery ramified on an organ of Digestion. Where Arteries branch in a similar manner, where they happen to be ramified on the parts adjacent, where they in- osculate, and where one is observed occasionally to supply the place of another, the distinctions between them, are more in the name, the situation, and relative magnitude, than in their functions. Nothing is easier than in this way to class and arrange from fancy or whim, and nothing more difficult than to class and arrange after the manner of a Bacon or a Linneeus. The first34 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. the Temporal Fascia, and is afterwards ramified coronad and glabellad on the Temporal muscle, and even so far as the Angle of the Orbit. ARTERIA ENCEPHALICA, seu Carolis Interna. The Encephalic, with the lateral part of the Pharynx (f) stern ad, the Par Vagum, the great Inter- requires only a genius for new-fashioning trinkets and dresses, or inventing new modes of reform to suit the popular taste of the day. The second requires the steady, vigorous, penetrat- ing mind, that takes in the compass of nature at a glance, that learns from herself how to explain her various operations, and how to discover those general laws which the Almighty Sovereign of the Universe has willed her to obey. (f) Some years ago, a gentleman reported to me, that he once had witnessed a case, where a Surgeon, in puncturing one of the Tonsils, had wounded an Artery, by which the patient bled to death in a few minutes. The Artery wounded, was supposed to have been the Encephalic or Internal Carotid. Portal mentions a similar case, but supposes the Artery to have been a large Tonsillar branch of the Orbito-maxillary. Speaking of its size, he says : Et telle quelquefois, qu’on pourroit oc- casionner la mort si on l’ouvroit, comme cela est arrive lorsque j’etudiois en Medicine a Montpellier. Uu Counseiller de la35 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. costal, and the Rectus Capitis Internus dorsad, pro- ceeds through a loose cellular membrane (g) to the base of the Cranium. Arriving at the base, it im- mediately enters the Foramen Caroticum, follows the Cour des Aides fut atteiut d’une violente Esquinancie par l’inflammation des Amygdales j on crut reconnoitre un abc£s dans l’une d’elles. Un Chirurgien habile voulut, 4 cet effet, l’ouvrir avec le Pharyngotome ; mais il la dirigea si mal, ou l’arttire Tonsillaire etoit si grosse, qu’ayant ete ouverte, il sur- Tint one Hemorragie qui fut bientot mortelle. (g) Partly from the laxness of the Cellular membrane, and partly from the mode in which it is attached to the coats of this Artery, the Encephalic, between its origin and Foramen Caroticum, is generally inflected more or less by the force of our injections, and, for aught I know, may sometimes be in- flected in a simitar manner by the force of the blood. Such an inflection, more or less increased in proportion to the force exerted by the Heart, may serve to regulate the momentum of the blood as it flows towards the Brain, while the windings of the Artery through the canal, like the windings of the Vertebral through the transverse processes, although they contribute to lessen the momentum, cannot vary their effects according to circumstances. In head-achs, in megrim, and even in giddi- ness, the effects of this momentum are usually felt where the Arterial blood is accelerated, and the Venous blood propor- tionally retarded by an inclination of the head downwards. In comparative Anatomy, it has been observed, that in those animals where the Encephalic proceeds more directly through the base of the Cranium, it is seen, where it passes through the canal, dividing into numbers of very small convoluted vessels36 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. canal that afterwards succeeds, through its different windings, runs by the side of the Sella Tursica bathed in the blood of the Cavernous Sinus, at last reaches the Foramen Opticum on the mesial side of that afterwards unite, suoh a plexus of vessels, when it oc- curs in the course of the Encephalic, being termed the Rete Mirabile of Galen, as a similar plexus in the course of the Opthalmic, has been styled the Rete Mirabile of Hovius. I have mentioned already, that an appearance, analogous to these, is to be found in the Mesenteric Arteries of the Sow, and in the Iliac and Humeral Arteries of the Lemur Tardi- gradus. Mr. Carlisle of London, who observed it in the Lemur Tardigradus, observed it also in the Lemur Loris, in the Bradypus Tridactylus, and the Bradypus Didactlyus, and remarking a correspondence between the minute-division of their Arteries, and their slowness of motion, was led to the general and important conclusion, that there are certain specific relations between the species of muscular motions, and the species of vascular ramifications. A similar idea had occurred to Willis, when treating of the Rete Mirabile of .Galen ; and the truth seems to be, that where changes in any of the functions of organs are connected with changes in the state of circulation, the succession of the changes which take place in the organs, must always be slow proportioned to the slowness with which changes are effected in the state of circu- lation. In cases, therefore, where the Arteries divide into Reti- form plexuses, convoluted or expanded, the actions of the organs on which they are ramified, so far as these actions de- pend on the quantity or momentum of the blood, must com- paratively be more steady and uniform, and whether they be naturally rapid or slow, must be less suddenly influenced by37 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. one of the Anterior Clinoid processes, there pene- trates coronad through the Dura Mater, bends a little iniad, and ultimately divides into two large branches (A), the one running in the Fossa Sylvii, and thence named the Arteria Sylvian a ; the other running a little glabellad, but afterwards bending coronad and iniad on that part of the hemisphere that lies in contact with the Falciform process of the Dura Mater, continues its course a little coronad of the Corpus Collosum, and observing nearly a similar direction, has thence been named the Arteria Callosa. Between its origin and the Foramen, it has sel- dom been observed to send off branches, though volitions and mental emotions, than in cases where the blood ebbs and flows as quick as thought. In all these cases, the nerves, too, must combine their effects with those of the Arteries, and so, among the nerves, we find that those dis- tributed to organs of voluntary motions, and those distributed to the organs of sense, for the purpose of clear and distinct per- ception, exhibit, in their course, generally fewer ganglions and plexuses, and, compared to the organs in which they terminate, are in proportion obviously larger, than those distributed to involuntary organs, or the organs of obscure indistinct sen- sation. (A) Quelquefois elle se divise en trois, en formant le tre- pied, lorsque communicant en sort an meme endroit; et en quatre, lorsque 1’Artere du plexus Choroide en tire aussi son origine dans ce lieu. Sabatier.38 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Haller saw once the Occipital Artery, and once the Pharyngeal, taking their rise from it. Between the Foramen, and the place where it penetrates the Dura Mater, minute injections have shown it, when passing near the cavity of the Tym- panum, sending in a branch to inosculate with the branch from the Meningeal, and when a little on- ward, sending a branch through the inial extremity of the Pterygoid canal, to inosculate with a branch from the highest Pharyngeal. The most ordinary injections are sufficient to show two of the branches which it gives out in the Receptaculum, or Cavernous Sinus, these last being generally ramified more or less extensively on the Dura Mater, on the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth pair of nerves; and it has / • been shown by Haller and Morgagni to have been Itamuli of these branches that were taken for fila- ments of the fifth pair, descending basilad to the first Ganglion of the great Intercostal. From the place where it penetrates the Dura Matei-, to where it divides into the Arteriae Syl- viana and Callosa, may generally be seen a cluster of small branches ramified upon the contiguous parts, as the Optic nerves, the Pituitary Gland, and the Infundibulum, while one considerably larger than the rest, has sometimes been observed passing over a crus of the Cerebrum, accompanying, for a while. -A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 3J) the Optic nerve, and afterwards entering, where some of the smaller usually enter the Basilar part of the Plexus Choroides. From the same place, are regularly seen rising two conspicuous and well known branches, the Arieria Opthalmica and Arteria Comviunicans: The one ramified on the eye and its orbit, and the other forming a communication between the Encephalic, and one of the divisions of the Basilar Artery. Arteria Opthalmica. In the year 1754, the illustrious Haller published an account of this branch, consisting of eighteen folio pages, accompanied with seven engravings and re- ferences, preceded by a preface of six pages, in which he gives a history of what were the labours, the dis- coveries, and the errors of his predecessors on the same subject. To secure, at once, minuteness and accuracy to his description, he examined this Ar- tery in twenty-four different subjects, injected it regularly with oil of Turpentine that was coloured red, preserved a record of the different series of its ramifications in most of them, of its principal branches in all of them, and woidd have prosecuted his in- quiries farther, had he not been prevented by re- tiring from Gottingen, and from Anatomy. Some40 A DESCRIPTION Of THE ARTERIES. years after, his friend and colleague, the illustrious Zinn, who had previously described some of its minute ramifications, gave also an account of this Artery, in his learned and valuable Anatomical De- script ioti of the Human Eye, a work which, in 1780, was edited again by the celebrated VVrisberg, ac- companied with what he calls a necessary supple- ment, and several new engravings. To these singular labours of the three learned Gottingen Professors, little has been added of much importance concern- ing the Opthalmic. It appears evident, from Haller’s observations, that it does not uniformly, throughout its course, fol- low the same line of direction in different individuals; that it has not always the same regular number of branches; that its usual branches do not always rise in the same order j that parts supplied by primary branches in one individual, are supplied by secondary branches in another; and that neither the primary nor secondary branches, when examined minutel\r, are found to be always uniformly ramified (i . It generally enters the Foramen Opticum at the lateral aspect of the Optic nerve (j), and sooner or (j) Divisio et progressus Opthalmicae in Orbita non constans est. Haller. (jJ Semel vidi Arteriam Opthalmicam supra nervuui mees- sisse. Haller.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 41 later crosses it (&) coroiiad towards the mesial side of the Orbit, from whence, emerging between the pully of the Trochlear muscle, and the Palpebral ligament, it runs along the side of the nose (/), and there inosculates with branches from the Labial and Orbito-maxillary. From the great irregularity in the origin of its branches, without regarding whether they be pri- mary, secondary, or ternary, derived immediately or remotely from the trunk, I shall enumerate the several parts on which it is ramified. In the pro- gress of its course, branches are sent to the Dura fit) Ad decursum Opthalmicae addere quoque visum est, illam quoque sub nervo Optieo progressam animadversam fuisse. Zinn. (/) When it runs on the nose, it is usually termed the Nasal branch of the Opthalmie, although from its general size and direction in the several adult preparations 1 have seen, it has oftener appeared the continuation of the trunk, than the Frontal branch, which, though in the foetus it be sometimes more than equal in size, has a different direction from that of the previous part of the Opthalmie. But the size of Arteries naturally vary in proportion to the parts on which they are ramified ; and it is known, that the bones of the face compared to the bones forming the Cranium, are propor- tionally larger in the adult, than they are in the foetus. “ Fron- “ tabs Arteria truncus est Opthalmicai, aliquandotamen minor “ nasali ut pro ejus ramo possit haberi.” Haller, Fustic hi.— referring to its appearance in the head of an adult.42 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Mater, brandies to the Periosteum and bones of the Orbit, a branch called Eacrymal to the Lacrvmal Gland, two branches named the Ethmoidal, passing through the Foramina Orbitaria to the Ethmoidal cells; branches to the Palpebrae and Tarsi that form arches near the margins of the eyelids ; branches to the Caruncla Lacrymalis and Lacrvmal Sac; two branches comparatively large, reflected over the Su- perciliary Arch, one named the Frontal, the other Supraorbital, ramified upon the Superior Palpebra, the Orbicularis, Corrugator, and Epicranius, where they inosculate with several branches from the Tem- poral Artery ; branches to the adipose substance within the Orbit, to the Levator Palpebrae, the four straight, and the two oblique muscles of the eye- ball (m) ; numerous branches to the Tunica Conjec- (m) Four times out of seventeen, Haller observed the Lacry- mal Artery deriving its origin from the Meningeal. The fifth Section of the tenth Chapter of Zinn’s Anatomical Description of the Eye, has for its title, De comets va>culis sect suspectis, &c. and he adds in that section, “ Quae ipse non “ vidi, consulto omisi, uti vascula corneae aliis dicta, qu:e nun- “ quam neque ope injectionis ceraceae neque in Fetu sponte “ manifesta, uti mihi deArteriis lentis contigit,observare potui.” Perhaps the boasted discoveries of Hovius concerning.the eye, which he says were made by means of a secret, {nova injeetto ignis ope arti/icii'Se confecla) which he would not reveal, imght have excited these suspicions in Zinn; but although Z'nn was correct iu declining to describe on his own authority, what he43 A DESCRIPTION of the arteries. Conjunctiva, which, in their smaller ramifications, convey only in the healthy state a transparent fluid, but in the higher degrees of inflammation admit red globules, and are seen running to the centre of the Cornea; many branches that are named Ciliary, to the globe of the eye, penetrating obliquely at dif- ferent parts the Sclerotic coat; from twenty to thirty, named the short or posterior Ciliary, entering near to the Optic nerve, and forming a close Vascu- lar plexus on the Choroid coat; two or more, called the long Ciliary, entering at a greater distance from the nerve, and some called the anterior Ciliary, of which Haller once counted twelve, and Sabatier twenty, entering not far from the edge of the Cornea. Some of the Ramuli of the short Ciliary, extend as far as the Ciliary processes, and it would appear from mercurial injections, that they are employed "t® suPP!y Part of the aqueous humour. The Iona- Ciliary, when they approach the circumference of the Ins, inosculate laterally through the medium of their branches, and form a ring, and the anterior by in- osculating similarly form another immediately within ■t, though these rings be not easily distinguished, • as both, m general, seem to unite in forming one l-l not seen, he was hardly correct in questioning without Mining a reason, the judgment and veracity of respectable observers, who said they had seen them. E \14 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIE5. circular plexus. From the concave part of thw plexus^ converging branches with small vascular areolae between them, radiate towards the margin of the Pupil, and inosculating laterally form the interior ring of the Iris, which is seldom perfect, or rather perhaps, is very seldom completely injected. Of the branches penetrating the Optic nerve, and afterwards running along its axis, one, considerably larger than the rest, is distinguished by the name of Centralis Retinae. It is seen ramified upon the con- cave aspect of the Retina, and by lateral communi- cations, two of its branches were seen by Zinn, in the eye of a Sheep, dividing laterally, like the long Ciliaries, and forming a ring (») on that margin of the Retina, where it seems to terminate at the com- mencement of the Ciliary Plicae. A branch also from this Artery, has occasionally been seen passing through the centre of the Vitreous Humour, to the capsule of the Lens, and, though much seldomer, a branch also passing through the centre of the Lens (o) itself. (re) This ring I likewise have seen, and oftener than once m the eye of a Sheep. (o) I must confess, though 1 never have seen the one or the other of these branches, I feel no inclination to doubt the veracity or accuracy of those who have mentioned them. Sabatier, however, who has seen the branch that penetrates theA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 45 E 2 Arteria Communicatis, Surrounded by pellucid cellular membrane, de- nominated here the Tunica Arachnoides, runs iniad substance of the vitreous humour, suspects the existence of the ranch or branches, that are said to enter the body of the Lens. H,s suspicions seem to arise from the circumstance, that they have seldom appeared to Anatomists after the most anxious in th a E J ' But if they convey a transparent flu.d “ their healthy state, how is it possible that they can appear vLlen U,Sfli1 " aUd iDjeCti°nS’ °r rare Cascs of •olent inflammation. If the natural functions of both the require the met perfectJH tLTZ'™* v""7 U“m' c“il be -w-a. Arteries orVems, are naturally to admit the gross and * whenever we chuse toLke the better *• co ourmg materials of our injections. With etter reason might we suppose, that the vessels ramified on dons the Cartil3geS’ Ligaments' Ten- , ol the muscles, and upon the Medullary part of the RPa should regularly admit them • but it v Pai*°f theBrain* f j ut it is known to cverv Ana- tomist that they do not. Whv ^ one set of vec i 5’ H questlon tlle existence of anoth ’ ’ ^ Par>ty of reason, the existence of another universally acknowledged should ' 'tan^es .n, , 6 ’ should’ ‘n numerous in- - * bulieve ” *Ct ““ ous,„ i,u5k,llheP ^ZiZZZI; “r bcso,,“- that he is to die. y t0 conv,nce him Sabatier, Petit, and some others ,• “‘,k* of A”*'W. vessels to the Pri'" w — **tapsu.«,^46 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. and mesiad on the lateral aspect of the Infundibulum, and Eminentia Mammillaris, of its own side, coronad, it by imbibition. But admitting their hypothesis, how is this imbibition to be regulated ? How is the Lens to.preserve its definite degrees of density towards the centre, and towards the . ,.limfl,rence ? By what means is it to regulate its form, its magnitude, and its transparency, so as to vary with the penods "f fife and yet always to have a definite relation to the rest of the eye, and the rest of the system. How comes it, that it docs not imbibe, when it is depressed in the vitreous humour when to grow, and although inorganic, has £ "ranee of a very curious,, organised swetorrn To Theiong 1 ”Xni;toIt\LtS,»o“rh«d Zl rrs:,'- > a - - tluids of a plant 1 «• » »'“*■ t0°; * "J >houW „« 11 «■ r p;r;: i ««— "Liv,na, its aperies, *-J sori, are the of an imbibing, or vege S •♦them 1 should be inclined and absurd, that rather than a ml ’the Lens ;s nourished to continue in the old vulgar op mon, vulgar, accom- by transparent vessels, .» “f”"' „e .bsnrfity, ponied only with this single „y to oth„47 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. but adjacent to the lateral parts of the Sella Turcica; and then, near the posterior clinoid process and Co- ronal part of the Tuber Annulare, communicates (p) (p) Cesserius was the first who gave a figure of this branch, and Willis the first who gave it a name'. The Arteria Sylviaiia is considered by Portal as its regular origin. Once he had seen it on the right side, entering the Basilar Artery, and says, that it sometimes enters the Vertebral. On comparing the two communicating branches, most Ana- tomists hare remarked that the one is often considerably larger than the other. This difference 1 have likewise ob- served, but have always been inclined to ascribe it partly to some difference in the force of the injection. A gentleman lately showed me a drawing, where both com- municating branches were wanting. He said, that injecting the Cephalic Arteries, none of the injection flowed into the Vertebrals, and that, afterwards injecting the Basilar Artery, none of it flowed into the Encephalics. Speaking of the communicating Artery, “ De l’Artere com- “ municante,” Portal observes, “ On donne ce nom a trois Ar- “ tferes qui reunissent celles du Cerveau.” But although his assertiou may be true, that this name has been given to the three Arteries, another assertion is equally true, that the name is absurd ; the three Arteries, which this name would insinuate to be only one, are three Arteries, all at some distance from one another; one of them connecting the two Cephalics through the medium of the two Arteriae Callosse; and the others connecting the two Cephalics with the two Vertebrals, through the two large branches of the Basilar Artery.A description of the arteries 48 with one of the larger branches of the Basilar Artery, soon after that branch originates from its trunk. By this, and its fellow of the opposite side, a very free communication is formed between the Encephal.c and Vertebral Arteries, and as the two Artena; Calosse, also communicate by one or two transverse branches, or, as I once saw, by forming together a common trunk that afterwards divided like the Basi- lar Artery, a communication equally free, is o - served between the two Encephalics. By these in- osculations, an area is seen on the base of the Cere- brum encompassed by a chain of communicating ves- sels, within which chain are seen the Infundibulum, the Optic nerves, and the Mammillary Eminences, and which, as resting on the base of the Cranium, seems also to encompass a great part of t e e a Turcica. This chain of vessels is usually named the circle of Willis, although it is never of a circular form, but always quadrangular, and even the quad- rangular form itself differing widely in different in- dividuals. From its situation, it naturally sen s branches to the Infundibulum, the Optic nerves he Mammillary Eminencies, the Crura Cerebri and the basilar extremity of the Plexus Choroides, when that extremity is not otherwise supplied. Tie portion between the Arterial Callosse, sending branc ic_ £ fore-part of the third Ventricle, the antenor49 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Commissure, a part of the Fornix, and the Septum Lucidum. By the general connection which this chain establishes between the four principal Arteries that enter the Cranium, the steady uniformity of the circulation throughout the Cerebrum, the Cerebel- lum and Medulla Oblongata, must be less dependent upon the extreme communicating branches, and whatever be the motions or positions of the head, sternad, dorsad, dextrad, or sinistrad, there are none « that can retard the free circulation in some of these vessels, that will not proportionally favour it in others. Arteria Sylviana Runs at first directly laterad, or nearly so, and, be* fore it enters the Fossa Sylvii, sends branches to the Optic nerves, the Plexus Choroides, sometimes even to the Pineal Gland, and such a number of small branches to the Crus of the Cerebrum, that Wepfer considers them as a Rete Mirabile. Proceeding in its course to the lateral aspect, it sends branches glabellad and iniad to the base of the two contiguous Lobes, di- vided by the Fossa. At the lateral aspect, it spreads coronad, iniad, glabellad, inosculating with branches from the Basilar Artery, and the Callosa. Its nu- merous branches also inosculate among themselves, » E 4A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. oO and are regularly seen accompanying the folds of the Pia Mater into the Sulci. From the Pia Mater, their Ramuli penetrate the Cerebral substance; but excepting a few that con- vey red blood, are no longer to be traced by the eye. Arteria Callosa„ This Artery, in the progress of the course already described, sends branches to the Optic and Olfactory nerves; a communicating branch or two to its fel- low of the opposite side (g) ; branches to the Basilar aspect of the anterior Lobe, the Coronal aspect of the (</) “ Vidi,” says Haller, “ Vidi aliquoties anteriorem Car- “ tidis Ramum dextrum, in Cerebrum ejusque lobum anterio- “ rem ivisse. Cum interim sinister solus, duas corporis Cal- “ losi Arterias generaret, qua: solito more ejus longitudinem “ retrorsum relegerunt.” This exception from the general rule, is similar to the one to which I allude, where I say, that the two Arteriee Callosae sometimes unite in a common trunk. The preparation, in my collection, exhibits the right Arteria Callosa dividing into two unequal branches; the smallest is confined in its ramifications to the base of the right anterior lobe, the larger of the two bends sinistrad, unites with the left Arteria Callosa, which is suddenly enlarged in its diameter, and afterwards divided into two branches of an equal magni- tude, which two branches, connected with the brain, were seen reflected iniad and coroiiad, and occupying the place of the two Callosaa on the mesial aspect of the opposite hemispheres. Of the first two branches, the largest, which is seen bending sinistrad to unite with the left Arteria Callosa, is nearly iu th*A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 51 E 5 Corpus Callosum, and the mesial aspect of its own hemisphere. Of the branches given out on the mesial aspect, some extend as far iniad as the Ten- torium, some run basilad to the Corpus Callosum, and some corouad, emerging from the Sulcus be- tween the hemispheres. In every place where they are to be seen, its branches are observed inosculating frequently among themselves, and where they are ramified on the same parts, inosculating likewise in a similar manner with branches proceeding from the Sylvian Arteries, or from the divisions of the Basilar Artery (r). It need scarcely be observed, that this place of the communicating or transverse branch. From this circumstance, Haller was probably led to view it as the com- municating branch merely. But, from that branch, it differs widely in many respects : it enters the Arteria Collosa at an acute angle, is nearly equal to it in size, contributes much to enlarge its diameter, and admits of no regular interchange of the circulating fluids between the right and the left side, as it regularly sends its blood to the left or common trunk, the only channel that now remains for the blood of the right Arteria Collosa to get to the mesial aspect of its hemisphere. I have only to add, that the word aliquoties, which is used by JIaller, seems to imply, that he had observed this appearance oftener than once; a circumstance which naturally suggests the question,—why does the right Arteria Callosa so often incline to unite with the left, and not the left be equally inclined to unite with the right ? (r) “ Ultim'i rami aliquando in falcem iverunt: Inque Prin- “ cipiumTentorii, etiam Wepfero observantc, p. 110. etVieus- ' senio, p. 32. Winslow, I. c.—HallerThese authoritiesA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES 52 Artery, like the preceding, being intended for the nourishment of the brain, must also send, through the medium of its branches, innumerable Ramuli to the Cerebral substance, although few of their number, excepting those conveying red blood, can ever be traced by the Anatomist. Even the Ramuli conveying red blood are, in ge- I neral, so small, that were it not for blood oozing out upon the dissections of the Medullary substance, they would not unfrequently escape our notice; but grant- ' ing they could be readily discerned, so numerous and minute are the divisions and anastomoses of both the Encephalic and Vertebral Arteries, imme- diately before they enter the Cerebrum, the Cere- bellum, and Medulla Oblongata, that the Anatomist could hardly, with any degree of propriety, extend his description beyond the larger ramifications that are seen spreading on the Pia Mater, running on the surface of the Cerebral organs, or entering into the Plexus Choroides. are unexceptionable, although the fact, that Arteries extend their ramifications between the Pia and the Dura Mater, inde- pendent of any previous disease, be not supported by general Analogy.5S A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. ARTERIA BRAC-HIALIS. This Artery, as already defined, is the vessel ramified upon the Atlantal or superior extremity. On the right side, it generally rises with the Cepha- lic from the Arteria Innominata. On the left from the arch of the Aorta itself. Between its origin, and where it emerges from under the Clavicle to the Axilla, it is known by the name of Subclavian (s) Artery. From the Clavicle, till it leaves the cup of the Axilla, or passes the tendons of the Pectoralis and Latissimus Dorsi, it is called the Axillary Ar- tery ; and from the Axilla to the bend of the arm, the Humeral Artery, and often the Brachial. No Artery in the human body is ramified on parts that exhibit such varieties of voluntary motions, and no Artery, perhaps, in the body presents such diver- sities of ramification. Haller examined it in twenty- eight bodies, and though he saw not all its branches,, yet he saw enough to make him despair of ascer- taining, in particular places, what was its common (t) The term Subclavian can be used only in an arbitrary sense in those numerous species of quadrupeds that are desti- tute of Clavicles; in these the Artery, almost immediately after its origin, becomes Axillary. E 6A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. and regular distribution. Impressed, therefore, with a sense of the difficulty of including its varieties in a general description, he sometimes, as in the palm of the hand, enumerates them separately, sometimes describes a particular variety, as the common distri- bution, and viewing that as the warp of a web, in- terweaves into it afterwards all the varieties of rami- cation which he had seen in other individuals. This last method is most decidedly the worst of the two. It has necessarily led him to describe a fiction, instead of a reality. For his ramifications, artificially combined, though not so extravagant as the com- bination of a man and a horse in the fabulous Cen- taur, or a woman and a lion in the figure of a Sphinx, are still combinations that must ultimately be traced to the workings of fancy, and not to the operations “ Vigesies et octies, has Arterias (nempe artus superioris) ab “ anno retro 1737, descripsi sed superioribus annisfusius (“ ad “ annum 1752.”) Inde nata est nimia pene ubertas quse forte, “ Lectori fastidio erit, mihi certe summi laboris causa fuit, cum “ in multis et subtilibus particulis toties naturam rariari vide- “ rem, ut passim omnino nulla spes esset tot diversorum sys- “ tematum uniea historia comprehendendorum ut in arcu pro- “ fundo vote adparet. In relitjuis, ut alibi monui, unam bene “ plenam descriptionem pro tela subposui cui reliquas obser- “ rationes intexerem quie ex aliis corporibus nat* essenL “ Arcum vote repetito expressi, ut obscuram partem quan- “ turn fieri posset faciliorem redderem, tavamc perforantes n infcriorcs.1 Ftucic, vi.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 55 of nature. Yet, unfortunately, Haller has, in his scheme, been more or less followed by all the dif* ferent writers of systems, from Sabatier downwards, all of them either copying from him, or from one an- other (t), though occasionally introducing a little of their own in matter or manner, to give their de- scriptions something like a dash of originality. But, without the aid of any of these artificial combinations, a more natural way to convey an idea of this Artery, and its ramifications, is to follow it through every part of its course, and describing its character, to mention the places where, in general, it is uniform, and where it is variable, as to its re- lative size and position, the number, origin, and dis- tribution of its branches. On no account, must we think of treating it as the tyrant Procrustes treated his guests, who, by stretching the short, and am- putating the tall, made them all commensurate to the size of his bed. In short, the Artery must dic- tate to us, and not we to the Artery, what is to be the proper description. To the common practice of describing, under se- parate heads, its Subclavian, Axillary, and Humeral (/) We can hardly believe, that, in copying from nature, they could have observed the very combinations that he had projected, and which never had been seen in nature before.66 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. portions, there can be no rational objection; the error lies in considering these portions as sepa- rate trunks; and here the Anatomist, who, by actual observation, has corrected the ideas, which lie first had received through the medium of a vague and obscure language, should not persist in communicating his ideas through the same impro- per medium to others, merely that they, as well as he, might be put to the trouble of correcting them afterwards by actual observation. THE SUBCLAVIAN PORTION On the right side, ascends more atlmtad than upon the left, and forms, therefore, a different curve, as it passes laterad to the Axilla. On the right side, also, supposing the Arteria Innominata a part of it, it regularly gives out one-half of the branches that are ramified on the Neck, the Head, and the Brain, while on the left, it sends no branches at all to the Head, and only the Vertebral Artery to the Brain. On both sides, it is seen behind the common trunk of the Brachial Veins, running transversely through a small plexus of the great Sympathetic, and while the vein is passing before, passes behind the Scalenus Anticus, till it reaches the sacral extremity of the space, where, between the Scalenus Anticus and57 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Medius, the nerves issuing from the Cervical Ver- tebrae, unite to form the Axillary Plexus, which it afterwards accompanies to the Axilla (w). The regular branches from this portion of the Brachial Artery that rise separately, or that rise in trunks common to two, are the Arteria Ster- nalis (v), or Mammaria Interna ; the Sacrothy'- roidea, or Thyroidea Inferior ; the Intercostalis Prima (n>), or Intercostalis Superior ; and the Ver- (u) Some have asserted, that after giving off the Cephalic Artery, it is still larger upon the right than the left side j but this assertion has not been confirmed by the observations and experiments of Haller. Where a difference exists, the Artery will naturally be largest on the side where the arm is largest, and is most employed in invigorating exercise. An anonymous writer, mentioned by Haller, maintains that, contrary to the common opinion, the vessels on the right side are the smallest, and that in conveying their proportion of blood, they, therefore, convey it with a greater velocity, which induces animals to use the right Atlantal extremity, in preference to the left. It is not improbable, that this writer, like many others, was more in the habit of seeing what he believed, than of believing what he saw. (v) The term Sternalis is borrowed from Portal, and is pre- ferable to the vague term Mammaria. (a>) Enumerating the Intercostal Arteries in the same order that we do the Nerves, Intercostalis Prima is more definite than Intercostalis Superior.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. US Tebralis (x). The other branches that are seen ramified in the vicinity, on the deep or superficial parts of the neck, running transversely towards the Scapula, or running sacrad towards the Thorax, disclaim any fixed or determinate origin, rising in one individual from the trunk, in another from one of the regular branches, but scarcely acknowledging a particular branch, or any particular place of the trunk, or any particular mode of originating more than another; and, we also may add, even the regular branches themselves show often a tendency to assume this lawless and unsettled character. (x) To these four regular Arteries, some Anatomists have add- ed a CervicaRs Profunda, or Posterior, a Cervicalts SuperficiaRs, or Transverse, and a Scapularis Superior of Haller, supposed the •ame as a Dorsalis Scapula: of Vidius, a Supra Scapularis of Ravius, or a Scapularis Externa of Heister and Winslow. Even Murray, who has made the following remark, “ Rami Subcla- “ vine horunique surculi infinite multas offerunt variationes, ut “ fere nunquam descriptiones, nec quoad ramulorum nume- “ rum, nec quoad eorum decursum, ex omni parte cum ipsa “ natura quadrent,” soon forgets his own observation, and in- stead of describing the general and specific characters of these branches, gives a minute and tedious detail of the varieties that occur in individuals.A DESCRIPTION OF TUE ARTERIES. 59 ARTERIA VERTEBRALIS, Though not the first of the four branches (y), yet, as it completes the Arteries of the Cerebrum and Cerebellum, we shall make it the first in the order of description. It passes to the Cranium through the transverse processes of the Cervical Ver- tebrae, and although it generally enters at the sixth, it occasionally has been seen entering at the seventh, and from the seventh to the third inclusive (z). (;/) On the left side, where the Aorta is near to the trans- verse processes, it has often been seen rising from the Arch. (z) “ Penetrant le trou de l’apophyse transverse de la “ sixieine ordinairement, quelquefois cependant de la septieme “ Vertebre Cervicale.—Portal.” “ Vidi a Trunco Aorta: in “ sinistro latere ortam. Vidi quartae ut Eustachius habet, “ T. xxvi; ant tertis Vertebrae Foramen subire.—Haller, “ Fascic. it. Mr. Burns informs me, that he lately saw it lying directly behind the Cephalic, and running as far as the Sacral margin of the Thyroid Cartilage, before it entered the Vertebrae. “ Hebenstreit a trouve l’Art£re Vertebrale douhle d’un “ cote.—Portal.” “ Quin duas viderunt Arterias Vertebrales, “ quorum una processum transversum quinice, altera septimee “ Vertebrae colli subit-”—Soemmerring. Viderunt is without a nominative, so we are not informed who saw these Arteries. Willis saw the Vertebral Artery of the right side supplying the place of the right Encephalic, and three times larger than the Vertebral Artery of the left side. As an excellent illustra- tion of the manper in which the Arterial System is accom-A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. 60 From the place where it enters, it passes successively through all the remaining transverse processes of that class of Vertebrae. On passing the atlas, it runs for a little horizontally and dorsad upon the modated to different changes of circumstance, I shall quote the passage, which is seldom seen, but ofteu referred to, at full length. “ Non ita pridem cujusdam defuncti cadaver disse- “ cuimus, quern sckirrhus intra mesenterium ingens, ac demuin “ ulcerosus, extinxerat: in eo, dum cranio aperto, qua; ad “ pertinebant lustravimus, carotidem dextram intra “ cranium emergentem, plane osseam, seu potius lapideam (ca- “ vitate ejus fere in totum occlusa) invenimus ; adeo ut san- “ guinis influxu hac via denegato, mirum videatur, quare sger 11 non prius interiisset Apoplecticus j quod equidem in tantum “ abfuit, ut-mentis suee, et functionis animalis liberousu ad ex- “ tremum vitae momentum potiretur. Enimvero contra illud “ Apoplexiae periculum, natura remedium satis idoneum sub- “ stituerat; nimirum ex eodem latere quo carolis defecerat, “ Arteria Vertebralis, Tubuli mole aucta, pari sua alterius la- “ teris triplo major evascerat. Quippe sanguis Carotide exclu- “ sus, vertebralis solito vectigali sese insuper addens, et dupli- “ cato fluvio in eundem alveum confluens, Arteriae istius cana- “ lem ita supra modum dilataverat: Vir Egregius circa ini- “ tium aegritudinis su® atroci capitis dolore, juxta latus sinis- “ trum torquebatur; cujus causa nescio an probabilior assig- nari possit, quam quod sanguis Carotide dextra exclusus, cum primo in sinistram impetuosius irrueret, membranam distenderatf ideoque idem aftectus postea sponte evanuit, “ nimirum sanguine superfluo per arteriam vertebralem de- “ rivato.”—Cerebri Anatomc, cap. vii,A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 6l Atlantal aspect of that Vertebra (a), then bends coronad antiniad and mesiad through the Foramen Magnum of the Cranium, meets with its fellow of the opposite side (b), as it approaches the Tuber An- nulare, and there the two uniting together, form what is called the Arteria Basilaris (c). The Basi- lar Artery being thus formed, and also enveloped in the Tunica Arachnokles, extends coronad on the Basilar aspect of the Tuber Annulare, till it reaches as high as the posterior Clinoid processes of the Sella Turcica. Here it divides into two branches, which, united each with the Encephalic of its own side, by what is called the Arteria Commnnicans, are after- wards ramified partly on the middle, but principally on the Inial lobes of the Cerebrum. In passing from transverse process to transverse, and from the Atlas into the Cranium, the Vertebral • '•••• • > ■ ■ 1'. 'i (a) Although it runs here generally in a groove, I have oftener than once observed it running in a canal formed on that aspect of the Vertebra, where it points to the Cranium. (b) “ Hie, Arteria Vertebralis altera multo altera crassior ¥ est. Vertebralem dextram, Morgagni De Sed. et Caus. Mor- “ borum. 2. p. 310. quadruple crassiorem sinistra vidit Ejus- “ dem nunc dextram, nunc sinistram crassiorem vidi.” Soem~ merring. (r) “ Valde rara vero fabrica est quam Cl. Hevermannus, “ Tab. viii. expressit neque mihi visa, ut ramus neque exiguus, “ transversus Arterias dims Vertcbrales conjungat.”—Hallerv, I’nclc. ■ait. p. 9-A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 62 Artery sends out branches to the muscles adjacent, and where it has the greatest distance to cross be- tween the Vertebra Dentata and Atlas, sends out branches that are larger than the rest, and which, after spreading on the neighbouring muscles, are seen inosculating with branches from the Occipital Artery. * In its passage through the processes, it runs slernad of the Cervical nerves that issue through the Inter-vertebral spaces, and is one of the Arteries which, through these interstices, sends branches to the Spinal Marrow and its Involucra (d). (d) “ Quatuor Involucris Spinalis Medulla Circumvestitur. “ Quorum Jirimum est membrana nervosa, crassa et fortis quse “ intern® Vertebrarum specus superficiei firmiter adh*ret “ Secundum est membrana crass® meningi continua.—Tertium est membrana tenuis et pellucida, Pia meningi continua. “ Quartum Pi® meningis productionem esse asserimus tertio “paulo crassius et validius apparet.”—Vide Vieus. Neuro- graph. Universal, lib. ii. cap. 2. Haller alludes to these Invo- lucra, where he treats of the Arteries of the Spinal Marrow in his seventh Fasciculus, and calls the first the Involucrum Ver- tebrurum. But though authors have talked of this Involucrum since the days of Galen, they seem not to have conveyed any clear and precise ideas of its nature and extent Winslow, who has given the most accurate description of it under the name of Tuyau Ligamenteux Entonnoir, describes it as formed of the Fascia Longitudinalis Postica Vertebrarum, and of that dense Cellular membrane, which continued from hear the sides.A description of the arteries. 63 Meningeal Branch. Somewhere in the space between the second of the Cervical Vertebrae, and where it enters the cavi- of the Fascia, adheres closely to the convex aspect of the Dura Mater, but is loosely connected with the central aspect of the Vertebral canal. Weitbrecht, offended that two parts so different in appearance, structure, and function, should be confounded, and nature herself misshapen and distorted, to suit the mistaken ideas of Anatomists, denies the existence of such a Tuyau Ligamenteux. For, “ Nullum,” says he, “ nullum “ Ligamentum seu Involucrum infundibuliforme ex mente “ autorum proprie sic dictum et perfectum existit.” And speaking again of the Fascia Longitudinalis Potsica, or Liga- mentum Posterius Vertebrarum, observes, “ Equidem non “ nego, in Peripharia Postica canalis similiter membranam “ aliquam adesse, qu® primo obtutu, cum Fascia ista totam “ meningem obvolvere et hinc unum quasi tubulum consti- “ tuere videtur. Sed primo haec membrana cum meninge “ adeo pertinaciter adhaeret ut non sine luceratione divelli “ queat, &c.—Contra vero, Fascia nostra postquam a secunda “ Vertebra descendit, cum meninge laxe, cum Vertebris autem “ arctius cohacret.—Membrana posterior soli meningi data “ esse videtur, qua tanquam Tunica nova corroboraretur : “ Fascia autem nostra ad Vertebras omni jure pertinet.” Where Haller, therefore, in describing the Arteries of the Spinal Marrow in the seventh Fasciculus, makes the distinc- tion between the Involucrum Vertebrarum and the Dura Mater, he must mean by the former, that membrane which adheres closely to the Dura Mater on its Dorsal aspect, and which is known but partially to surround H.04 A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. ty of the Cranium (e), it sends off the Posterior Meningeal, or posterior Artery of the Dura Mater, an Artery which is afterwards extensively ramified on that membrane where it encompasses the Cere- bellum, and which often is seen, through the medium of its branches, inosculating freely with the other Meningeals. Inferior Cerebellar Branches, ^ hen within the Cranium, generally from the V ertebral, although occasionally from the Basi- lar Artery, one or more branches that sometimes unite, are seen bending coronal and iniad between the crus of the Cerebellum and Medulla Oblongata, and spieading as far as the Vermiform process. This Artery or Arteries, together with their fellows In his second Fasciculus, where he had not so minutely ex- amined the Involucra, he makes the Vertebral Artery to send off a ramum majusculum cum singulo nervorum pare ad medul- lam spinalem. But afterwards finds, vide Fascic. via. that the branches which regularly pass through Vertebral interstices, go often no farther than this first Involucrum, or Involucrum Vertebrarum. (c) In ipso denique aditu ad Cfrcbrum non raro, aut “ prius ad primam vel secundam Vertebram, quod mihi fre- quentius visum est, Artcriam Posteriorem durae Membranae emittit, quae ionge lateque per Cerebelli sedem in Cranio regnat, turn super crucem Occipitis, sinusque transversos turn versus processus Clinoideos.”—Haller, Fascic. cii. p. 7,A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 65 of the opposite side, are named Inferiores Cerebelli by Murray, and Profunda' (f) Cerebelli by Haller. Passing by the sides, from the Basilar to the Coronal aspect, of the Medulla Oblongata, they give out branches to its basilar, lateral, and coronal surfaces, ramified from the Tuber to the Spinal Marrow, and partly on the nerves in the vicinity, the Corpora Olivaria and Corpora Pyramidalia. On the Coronal aspect of the Medulla, where they run between it and the Cerebellum, they give out branches to the fourth Ventricle and its Choroid Plexus, and afterwards spread on the neighbouring surfaces of the Cerebellum. (f) “ Pollice vero prius, says Haller, quam conveniat uter- “ que truncus, retrogrado angulo nasci solet Arteria Cerebelli “ Profunda, non valde distinete a Scriptoribus Proposita.” Sabatier, when treating of it, says, “ Avant M. de Haller, “ n’avait pas ete decrite avec toute l’exactitude qu’elle “ merite.” Portal, I suppose, from not thinking it a constant branch, has not deigned to mention it, and even Haller’s ac- count of it, is not much in favour of its regularity. “ Non “ autem perpetuo eodem modo provenit liaec Cerebelli Arteria “ nam nonuunquam in uno latere a separata adhue Verte- “ brali, in altero ah iisdem truncis coalitis nascitur. Alias a “separata quidcm hactenus Vertehrali prodit, ut tamen duo “ trunculi sint, qui continuo confluunt. Vidi dextram Arte- “ riam parvam fuisse, sinistram insignem ut ea sola utrinque “ comitem vermis ramum ederet. Alias omnino unica fuit “ lateris sinistri ut non alius dexter impar truncus adesset in “ eo cadavere.” Fascic. vit. p. 8.66 A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. Superior Cerebellar Branches. Towards the further extremity of the Tuber, one or more (g) branches from the opposite sides of the Basilar Artery, are reflected by the sides of the Crura Cerebri, from their Basilar to their Coronal aspect, and reflected, consequently, in that angular space between the Crura Cerebelli and Cerebri, where these first meet in the Tuber Annulare; these branches are also ramified on the Cerebellum, and known by the name of Snperiores Cerebelli-. In their course, they send branches to the Crura Cerebri and Crura Cerebelli; branches to the Choroid Plexus, lying on the Thalami, to the Corpora Quadri- gemina, the Pineal Gland, the Valve of Vieussenius, and the fourth Ventricle, and, like the preceding, are afterwards extensively ramified on the neigh- bouring surfaces of the Cerebellum. Posterior, or Deep Cerebral Branches. A little onward, beyond the origin of the third pair of nerves, the Basilar Artery ultimately divides into two branches, which, after communicating with (g) “ Non rarum est pro uno ejusmodi ramo, (sc. Arteria “ Superiore Cerebelli) duos tresve sibi parallelos similesque “ fuisse, ut tune quidem, quos nos l'ames (ejus truuci) dicemtis, “ ii diversi trunci sint.”—Haller.A DESCRIPTION OF TIIE ARTERIES. 67 the two Encephalics, in order to form the circle of Willis, are reflected in a similar manner as the last, and very nearly in parallel curves, but, running coronad of the Tentorium, terminate in the Inial lobes of the Cerebrum, on which they are ramified, and from which they are named the Profunda:, or Posteriores Cerebri. At their commencement, they send branches to the basilar part of the third Ventricle, the Mammil- lary Eminencies, the Crura Cerebri, the Optic nerves, the Thalami, the Corpora Quadrigemina, the Pineal Gland, and the Choroid Plexus; reflected coronad, they again distribute, from a different aspect, a new set of branches to the third Ventricle, the Thalami, aji Fornix; branches also to the lateral Ventricles, t e Corpoia Stimta, the Corpora Quadrigemina, the mea 1and (h), and the Choroid Plexus. Their m The pta™ which they form with ,ie oth(>r b„ndiej r*”" 0f tte Pi* which cpcccd. «„r Curpor the Pineal Cfc„<l, snd „.hicll lea„s Jin, 7“” *,"f*“0f l'“ l>'- « «*»*"'» *rt.«raM»rfcLmbi,CrUB,,f “e nsqvmm est ” save r«i 7 =' «te Mirabilc l esc, gays Columbus, “ Hoc ’ iloc esse affirniare audeo, F 068 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIRS. ultimate branches are ramified on the middle, and the Inial lobes, where they communicate with ex- treme branches from the Arteries Sylvianae and Cal- losa;. Besides the above, numerous branches, though without a name, are sent out laterally from both the Vertebral Arteries and the Basilar to the Tuber Annulare, the Medulla Oblongata, and the Cere- bellum ; and one also, distinguished by a name, but like the rest, more regular in its course and des- tination, than in its origin, enters the canal of the “ nusquam enim tam admirandum Arteriarum ininimarum, “ innumerabiliumque plexum, perplexumque et intertextum “ videre poteris and having previously remarked, that it is formed of the two Vertebral Arteries, and the two Encephalics, a circumstance, he adds, that had never been observed by any person before, and which I may add, has never been observed by any person since, he insinuates that they are guilty of im- piety who presume to place it in the neighbourhood of the Pituatary Gland. “ Galenus,” says he, “ Galenus suum « Rete Mirabile supra Sphenoidem describebat: Ubi Glandula “ ilia adest omne id excrementum suscipiens, quod in Cerebro ti gjgnitur: buic enim muneri fuit a natura dicata. Sed it nonne impiuin quod piis hotnmibus videri potuisset, graiiter- “ que accusanda fuisset natura: Si Natura, quae prudens, et Cf oculatissima in hominis fabrics esse solet, ac debet, tam « nobilem plexum, tam insignem, tamque admirabilem in loco “ non rnodo humili, sed tot excrementorum sentina, ne cloacam u aicam, collocavisset. Real. Columbus De Re Anatomies, “ Lib. vii,”A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 6*9 ml. lib. ii, cap. 3. Portio Dura to spread on the Vestibule, the Semi- circular canals, and the Cochlea. It is called Artcria Audiliva Interior. arterle spinales. The Medulla Spinalis, generally supposed a con- tinuation of the Medulla Oblongata, and, conse- quently, of the two Crura of the Cerebrum, and the two Crura of the Cerebellum (i), is nourished by certain Arterial canals, situated on its dorsal and sternal aspects. These canals are named the Posterior and the Anterior Spinal Arteries Willis was the first who particularly directed the atten- (i) “ Quamquam Medulla Spinalis juxta Hippocratis et “ Galeni mentem, Cerebri productio vel Cerebrum Oblonga- “ turn dici possit, ipsam tamen a Cerebro prcxluci existiman- “ dum non est; una namque pars alterius causa dici nequit. “ Verum hoc ita intelligi debet, Spinalem pempe Medullam et “ Cerebrum esse partes consimilibus e substantiis conflatas. “ Si Medulla Spinalis una cum Cerebro noctu Aeri ex- “ posita relinquatur, multo mollior evadit quam Cerebrum. “ Alba Medullas Spinalis in Oleo coctae substantia in “ libril I as dividi nequit. “ Licet Cerebri in Oleo excocti Medulla in tenues, e “ quibus conflatur fibras dirimi possit “ Verum h® discriminis rationes, distiuctas materia; “ naturas non arguunt”—Vide Vieussen, Neuropraph. Univer-70 A DESCRIPTION Or THE ARTERIES. tion of Anatomists to these vessels, though from the manner in which he, and afterwards Vieus- senius, chose to represent them, Haller suspects, and with some reason, that their figures were not accurately copied from nature. Their appearances differ in different individuals. The two Sternal, near the Atlantal extremity of the Neck, are generally observed uniting into one, and continuing united through all the rest of the Ver- tebral Tube. The two Dorsal are generally ob- served to unite and separate, and to unite and separate again, and when they are separated, to ' communicate frequently by transverse branches. The Dorsal and Sternal, also, communicate by transverse branches, and sometimes the Dorsal meet with the Sternal, by wandering laferad in serpentine wind- ings. The Sternal, in places where they are separate, are generally observed to be larger than the Dorsal. The Dorsal terminate with the Spinal Marrow, about the second of the Lumbar Vertebrae; the Sternal united, are continued to the extremity of the Cauda % Equina. On the Cauda Equina, Vieussenius represents them as branching out in a manner similar to the Spinal Marrow ; but I rather suspect he has seen that appearance with such eyes as the Poet saw trees, churches, and strange visages in the “ red cinders.” There is no doubt, that every nerve of the CaudaI A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. ? 1 Equina is supplied with Arteries, but not with Ar- teries branching from the Spinal, and running longi- tudinally through their whole extent, till they issue from the tube of the Vertebral column. The an- terior Spinal extends to the Coccyx, and inosculating with branches that enter the tube through the In- tervertebral spaces in the Loins, and through the Foramina of the Os Sacrum, forms a plexus that afterwards supplies the nerves of the Cauda. Both the Sternal and Dorsal canals, are usually described as commencing within the cavity of the Cranium, and as springing from either the branches or trunks of the Vertebral Arteries, and chiefly, for the reason, that the tributary branches in that situa- tion enter the canals at their extremities, of which branches, the canals are afterwards supposed to be only the continuations. Thus, from the Vertebral Arteries, or the Basilar, a branch or branches (£), two or more uniting, enter the extremities of the Sternal canals; while, from the Inferior of the Cerebellum, a branch or branches (/), two or more W “ Cette Artfere (l’Art&re Spinale Anterieure) est quel- “ quefois, comme on vient de la dire, formee par la reunion des “ Arterioles fournies par une Vertebrale.” (/) “ Cette Artere (I’ArtiSre Spinale Posterieure) provient “ des Rameaus que l’Artere Vertebrale. fournit a la partie posterieure de la moelle aliongce, et a la partie posterieure F 3 XA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Haller, Fascic, vii. p. 15. T2 uniting, enter the extremities of the Dorsal ca- nals. These canals are also described as receiving branches from the Vertebral Arteries, the deep Cer- vical, or some branches of the Sacrothyroid in the region of the Neck, from the Intercostals in the region of the Thorax, and from the Lumbar in the region of the Loins, and receiving these branches opposite to each Inter-vertebral space. But the truth is, although they always receive branches from the neighbouring Arteries in these regions, observation and experience have not shown, that they receive them in any regular and uniform manner, proportioned to the number of Vertebral interstices (m). The branches that communicate with the Spinal canals in these regions, are known by the name of Arterice Medullares, to distinguish them from those that “ de' la moelle Epini&re, desquels quelquesuns aprfes avoir “ concouru a la formation du laeis qui l’entoure, se reunissent, *{ et forment l’Artfcre Spinale Posterieure.”—Portal. {m) “ Horum ramorum qui nervis vamulos dant, piaeque “ membranse, et cum Spinalibus longis rarie inosculantur, “ numerus minor est, quam Vertebrarum, et multa saepft “ Vertebrarum intervalla ejusmodi ramo destituuntur tam “ Arteriori quam posteriori. Quae vero deficiant, nulla, credo, “ lege constitni potest, neque res perpetuitatem habct.”—A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 7^ F 4 enter the tube, but are afterwards ramified upon the Involucra. Each Medullaris, so far as the Liga- mentum Denticulatum is continued, generally di- vides into two Ramuli (n), a Dorsal Ramulus enter- ing the Dorsal, and a Sternal entering the Sternal canal. The other branches entering the tube of the Ver- tebral column, are those which are ramified on the Dura Mater and Involucrum Vertebrarum ; the first might be named the Vertebro-Meningeal, the latter the Vertebro-Involucral Arteries. The Vertebro- Meningeal are smaller in size, and fewer in number than the Vertebro-Involucral, the last are larger, and even more numerous than the Medullares ; they enter at each Inter-vertebral space from the Atlas to the Coccyx, and, when they enter, generally send off four Ramuli, two of them running in opposite direc- tions, allantad and sacrad, to unite with their fellows of the neighbouring interstices on the same side; and two running mesiad, one by the Dorsal, and the other by the Sternal part of the tube, to unite with («) “ Ejusmodi Medullares Arteriae alia? Anteriores sunt, alia; “ posteriores, idque discrimen superest, quam longum est " Ligumentum denticulatum, nempe ad Pollicem fere supra “ finem Medulla: Spinalis priniamque LumborumYertebram.” —Haller, Fatcic, vii. p. 15.74 A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. their fellows of the opposite side (o).—A Medullaris, a Ferlebro-Meningcal, and the branch which is sent to the Involucrum, sometimes arise by a common stem, and sometimes arise as separate trunks from a neighbouring Artery; or where there are two neigh- bouring Arteries, it sometimes happens that two of the three arise from the one, and the remaining branch from the other. / In his second Fasciculus, where Haller is treating of the Vertebral Artery, he describes the Medullares in the region of the Neck, as entering at every Inter- vertebial space, and as furnishing regularly their tributary supplies, to both the Sternal and Dorsal canals of the Spinal Marrow ; and Portal, in describ- ing the Vertebral Artery, has not only represented the Medullares as entering at every Inter-vertebral (oj “Major ramus est, qui Vertebrarum involucrum adit, “ aliis surculis, qua Corpora earum Medullae respiciunt, et aliis “ Per sedem, qua? spinis obvertitur. Varie vero in raroos “ ita distribuitur, ut quisque cum binis proximis, superiori et inferiori, et cum ramo sibi opposito, in Involucro arcus et retia faciat. Confer. Winslow, iti. 119. Ka retia nimis uni- “ formiter Polygonia pinxit, Willisius. Tab. xiii.fg. 3. Ejus- modi vero rami ad Corpora Vertebrarum ab ipso atlante “ deorsmn ad coccygem usque reperiuntur, neque ullum in- “ tervallum ejusmodi trunculo desituitur."—Haller, Fnscic. vii. p. 13.7o A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. F 5 space, but as regularly divided into four Ramuli, like the branches which are sent to the Involucrura. The account, however, which Haller has given in his seventh Fasciculus, and where he distinguishes the three sets of Arteries, is the most correct. INTERCOSTA LIS PRIM A, seu Intcrcosialis Superior, Crosses the central and concave aspect of the first rib, near its Vertebral extremity; and periplierad of the Pleura, is seen ramified on the first Costal interstice, generally on the second, sometimes on the third, rarely on the fourth. Throughout its course, it uniformly rests either on the ribs, or Intercostal muscles. Had it arisen from the arch of the Aorta, it must necessarily have stretched through a considerable intermediate space, without any support, excepting from loose cellular membrane, and as the parts between which it extended might of- ten have varied their relative position, in consequence of the different states of respiration, its functions had been more exposed to interruption, than in a situa- tion where the parts of the course, over which it76 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. runs, combine in performing the same kind of mo- tions. Had it arisen from the straight portion of the Aorta, it must have returned at a more acute angle, than any other of all the Intercostals ; and although it be true, that even human sagacity itself could have devised different means by which such inconve- niencies might be obviated, it is equally true, that no sagacity could have devised a course more secure, or an origin less exceptionable, than that which this Artery usually has from the Subclavian Portion of the Brachial (p). With respect to its mode of ramification, it is similar to that of the other Inter- costals, which shall afterwards be described in their proper place. (p) Haller saw it rising by a common trunk with the Cer- vical Artery, and also by a common trunk with the Sacrothy- roidj Eschenbach, by a common trunk with the Vertebral Artery; Ravius, by a common trunk with the Sternal, or In- ternal Mammary Artery. Winslow and Walter saw two Inter- costals on the same side from the Brachial Artery, and P. C. Fabricius saw a case, where all the Intercostals were from the Aorta. See Haller, Fascic. viii. p. 64.77 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. ARTERIA STERNALIS (q), seu Mammaria Interna, Rises nearly opposite to the Sacrothyroid, and near to the place where the Subclavian (r) is about to pass between the Scalenus Anticus and Medius. It enters the Thorax peripherad of the Pleura, and, nearly parallel (.s) to the side of the Sternum, stretches across the first seven of the Costal Carti- lages at a small distance from their mesial extremity. Where it reaches the place of the Stemocostalis, it runs peripherad of that muscle, perforates the Dia- phragm, as it passes the Cartilage of the seventh (j) I have borrowed this name from Portal, which he, by- omitting the prefix sous, had borrowed from ChausSier. O') The cases are rare, where the right Sternal has been seen rising either from the Aorta or Arteria Anonyma. (s) If the course of this Artery, and the side of the Sternum-, be viewed together, this account will not appear inconsistent either with the figure of Haller in his sixth Fasciculus, or with the account which is given by Murray, who says, “ Ab “ origine ad costam tertiam, ad Sternum inclinat, turn vero " extrorsum sensim vertitur.” F 6I 78 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. rib, enters the Abdomen peripkernd, also of tbe Peritoneum, and branching on the central aspect of the Rectus, nearly as far as the Umbilicus, is ob- served to inosculate with different branches from the Epigastric. While it runs in the vicinity, it generally sends branches to the Sternohyoideus, the Sternothyroi- deus, the neighbouring Lymphatic Glands, and the Clavicle. But passing through the Thorax, it always sends branches to the Sternum and Cartilages, to all the neighbouring parts of the ribs, and to the Inter- costar muscles attached to them. Crossing the first four of the Interstices, it often sends two branches to each, to inosculate with the Arteries named Intercostals, and with the branches from the Axilla, that are termed Thoracics (/). From some of these branches, as Ramuli have been found entering the Mammae, and communicating with the Lactiferous Ducts, that circumstance has partly given rise to the name Internal Mammary («). (0 Speaking of these inosculations, Haller says, “ Certe “ nihil pulchrius esse potest.” (u) “ Plusieurs (Rameaux) parvienneut dans le corps de la “ mamelle: mais ce ne sont pas les plus considerables, quoi- “ que ce soit d’eux que l’Artfere a reyu le notn de Mammaire “ Interne. Nuck a fait passer du mercure, par l’injection des “ ArtSres qui se repand dans les mamelles, dans les canauxA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 7Q Approaching the Cartilage of the sixth rib, the Sternal Artery sends off a large lateral branch, which, crossing the Cartilages of the false ribs, and coasting along the attachments of the Diaphragm, as far as the tenth, has received the name of Mus- culo-Phraiic. At each of the Interstices, which are here narrower, the Musculo-Phrenic sends off the branches that meet the divisions of the Intercostals on the Sacral and Atlantal margins of the ribs, and as these inosculate by their extremities with the di- visions of the Intercostals, without changing the di- rection of their course, and without any sudden change of diameter, it is difficult to say where- the inosculations take place. The Musculo-Phrenic, from its situation, naturally sends numerous branches to the Diaphragm, and, though not so numerous, nor yet so large, branches also to the Transversus Abdominis, which sometimes have been seen extending sacrad, and inosculating with branches from the Lumbar Arteries. “ lactes, et cette experience a ete dcpuis faite plusieurs fois. “ D’ailleurs, n’y a-t-il pas des femmes qui rendent du sang “ par la mamelle au lieu de lait? On en a vu qui etoieut “ reglees par cette voie.”—Portal. Vide Nuck’s Adenogra- phiae Curiosae, cap. 11. where he mentions the experiments, in which he made his injections pass not only from the Arteries into the Lactiferous Ducts, but from the Lactiferous Ducts into the Arteries.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 80 The Sternal Artery having passed the Cartilage of the seventh rib, and sent branches to the Ensi- form Cartilage, sends off another lateral branch, not much inferior to what remains of the rest of the Trunk. This lateral branch is seen afterwards spreading on the central aspect of the Transversus Abdominis, and inosculating with Ramuli from the Epigastric ([v). The branches sent from the Sternal Artery to the adjoining Viscera of the Thorax, are branches rami- fied on the Mediastinum, the Thymic Glands (to), the Pericardium, and the branches that accom- pany the Phrenic nerve towards the Diaphragm. The branches, however, that happen to be ramified on these Viscera, are not so regularly from the Sternal Artery, as the previous branches to the Parities. (o) Mr. Bums acquaints me by letter, that he lately saw the Sternal Artery sending off a lateral branch at the place where it passes the first rib, and that this branch, not inferior in size to one of the Intercostals, extended as far as the fifth rib ; and in a subject about 12 years of age, was three inches dis- tant from the place where the ribs are joined to their Car- tilages. In short, its course, on the central aspect, appears to have been opposite and commensurate to that of the Arteria Thoracica Altera, represented by Haller in his sixth Fasciculus, Tab. 1. (w) “Duas Thymi Glandulas esse, dudum, repetitis, admo- “ dum experiments confirmor.”—Haller, Fascic. iii. p. 22.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 81 They sometimes have been seen arising directly from the Subclavian Portion of the Brachial Artery, from the Arteria Anonyma, from the Cephalic, from the Aorta, and from one another (x). Whatever be the origin or number of the Media- stinal Arteries (y), they are always small, when their ramifications are confined to the Mediastinum itself; but larger in cases where they extend to the Thymic Glands, Pericardium, or Diaphragm. The Thymic Arteries, naturally vary in size and in number, according to the size and extent of the Glands on which they are ramified. In the adult, these Glands are not only proportionally, but ab- solutely smaller than they are in the Foetus, while, in some adults, scarcely a vestige of them remains. When extremely small, and almost obliterated, they (x) See Portal. (y) “ Les Mediastines et les Pericardines ne peuvent gufere “ se distinguer, parceque les memes branches se distribuent “ au Mediastin et au Pericarde ; elles viennent de plusieurs “ endroits; c’est-a-dire, que la Thymique, la Mammaire in- “ teme, les Diaphragmatiques, l’Aorte et les Intercostales les “ produisent: de sorte qu’il faudroit faire mention des Me* “diastines dans tous les articles, qu’on destine a ces vaisseaux. " Dans qu’elle confusion cette methode ne nous jetteroit-elle " point ? Et ne vaut-il pas mieux abandonner ces petites “ Arttres, ou ne les indiquer que generalement V’—Lieutaud. Anatomie Historique.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 52 are supplied by a Ramulus or two from the Sternal Artery, or from some of the neighbouring Arterial blanches. When they extend, as they sometimes s are observed to do, in the Foetus, ntlantad as far as the Thyroid Glands, or sacrad nearly as far as the Diaphragm (z), they are naturally supplied with Arterial branches from various sources; and Haller has seen them receiving brandies, not only from the Arteries already named (a), but from the Ence- phalics, or Internal Carotids, and from the Atlantal,, or Superior Thyroids (6). From the situation, and from the connections of the Pericardium, it cannot be surprising to the Ana- fir) “ Solsnt autem Cornua Superiora Thymi, in recens nato, “ aut Fetn> cui l°ngissima sunt, ante venarn Subclaviam sinis- “ tram adscendere, ut denique contingant Thyroideam Glandu- “ lam—Est ubi utrumque cornu retro Subclaviam adscendere “ vidi, quod ranssimum est.—Inferiora Cornua descendunt “alias ad originem vasorum magnorum, alias ad medium “ Pericardium, alias, in Fetu, pene ad septum transversum “ usque.”—Haller, Fascic. iii. p. 23. (a) Rarius est, a radice communi Subclavi® dextne et “ Carotidis Thymicam venisse dextram, bis tamen visum et “ bis cx trunco Aort® continuo super Pericardium quod vix “ nolatum reperio.”—Haller, Fascic. Hi. p. 25. (A) “ Cornua Superiora plerumque aliquos ramos a Thy- “ roideis suPeri°ribus habent in collo. A Carotide interna “ habuisse vidi est sed hoc rarum.”—Ibid,83 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. tomist, that it should occasionally receive branches from the Aorta, the Arteria Anonyma, the Subcla- vian Portion of the Brachial Artery, or the two Cardiacs, as well as from the Sternal or Internal Mammary; or that the Ramuli of these branches, where they extend along the trunks of the large blood-vessels, or along the Pleura, should be found by injections to inosculate with the Arteries that are named Bronchials. Haller saw a case, where the right Phrenic, originating in the Abdominal Aorta, passed through the Diaphragm with the Vena Cava, branched afterwards on the Pericardium, and inos- culated with the Artery that was seen accompanying the Phrenic nerve (c). The Phrenic Arteries are properly those, which are ramified on the Diaphragm, and one of the number is that which accompanies the Phrenic nerve, and thence called the Comes Nervi Phrenici, or sometimes Pericurdio-Diaphragmalica. It generally rises from the Sternal Artery ; though, as Haller remarks, it is sometimes a branch from one of the Thymics. The other Arteries that accompany the Nerve for a certain way, but terminate before they extend to the Diaphragm, are rather Pericardiac, than Phrenic branches (rf). \ (c) See Haller, Fascic. iii. p. 25. Not 8. (d) Almost every individual of the species may present varieties of Mediastinal, Thymic, Pericardiac, and PhrenicA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES, 84 SACHOTHYROIDEA (e), seu Thyroidea Inferior, Rises near the Sternal and Vertebral Arteries, and running ailantad by the Dorsal aspect of the Cephalic, and by the side of the (Esophagus and Trachea, terminates in the Thyroid Gland, and the Larynx. branches from the Sternal Artery. See Haller, Fascie. viii. Hole 8. To enumerate and describe them, may show industry, patience, minuteness, and accuracy, but not that kind of in- dustry, patience, minuteness, and accuracy, that are ever to improve Anatomy, Surgery, or Physiology. (e) A Sacrothyroid was seen rising from the arch of the Aorta, between the Arteria Anonyma and left Cephalic, by Neubauer, as quoted by Soemmerring, and once seen by Haller from the Cephalic. “ Semel,” he says, “ rarissimo exemplo, a “ Carotide vidi natam.” I have seen both Sacrothyroid* rising by a common trunk on the right side, and the left branch passing obliquely across the Trachea, where it would have been divided in tracheotomy. Haller mentions a case, where the Sacrothyroid was scarcely to be seen, (vix ulla esset) j Mr. Burns a case where it was wanting, and a case where it run on the Sternal aspect of the Cephalic. See Burns’ Varieties of the Larger Arteries,85 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. In its course, it sends branches to the Trachea, to the (Esophagus, and to the neighbouring constrictors of the Pharynx. The branches which it sends to the Trachea, sometimes extend in a sacral direction to the Bronchial Glands; the branches ramified on the Thyroid Gland (f) inosculate with the branches of the Atlantothyroid of the same side, and with their fellows of the opposite side. The branches to the Larynx, are expended chiefly on the Thyro-ary- tenoideus, and the Crico-arytenoideus Posticus. The other Arteries directly or indirectly from the Subclavian Portion of the Brachial./ These Arteries admit of no definite description as to their size, origin, or number, their course, or (/) Though the right and the left lobes of what is usually called the Thyroid Gland, be, in general, united on the Sternal aspect of the Trachea, yet there are cases, and these not a few, where no such union is to be observed, and where the right and the left lobes, are as evidently distinct Glands, as the two Parotids, or the two Kidnies, which two last are sometimes united on the Sternal aspect of the Lumbar Vertebra:, exhibit- ing a figure, though not strictly like, yet somewhat similar, on a slight inspection, to that presented by a horse’ shoe. (g) The course of an Artery to any given part, must always, in some measure, depend on the situation or position of the place from which it originates. / civ Citric* ~ v', Lf C-yTVxt-uf,WO A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. extent of ramification : Some of them branch on the Axillary Plexus, and the neighbouring muscles, some on the deep and superficial parts of the Neck, some on the Clavicle, the Scapula, the Trapezius, and the parts adjacent. Two or more of them have received names (/*), m allusion to the direction of their course, them relative situation, or their destination ; but scarcely do those of any situation, course, or destination, ad- mit of the same uniform description in two indi- duals. Attempts to describe them by some specific and permanent characters have frequently been made, and as frequently have failed. The most accurate account of them seems to be, that the whole of the Neck is not supplied by the regular branches of the Pericephalics, nor the regular branches from the Subclavian Portions of the Brachials; but that se- veral branches, directly or indirectly, from the Sub- clavian Portions of the Brachials, having no fixed or specific characters, are always ramified on the (h) Soemmerring has named one of these, Arteria Scapular* Superior, vel Transversa, vel Cervical* Superficial^, from be,n~ both a Cervical and a Scapular branch , and Murray describes a Transverse Scapular, which, in different individuals, varies the extent of its ramifications, and sometimes, changing the direc- bonof its course, turns a Dorso-scapular; but in no situation, and under no name, does it ever restrict itself to any regular or determinate laws, as to either the mode, the number, or ex- lent of its ramifications.A DESCRIPTION OP THE A&TERIE3. g7 different aspects of the Cervical region; some of them meeting with branches proceeding from the Pericephalics towards the Atlantal part of the Neck; some of them, towards the Scapula and Clavicle, in- osculating with branches from the Axilla; and one of them, particularly an Anastomotic, of a large size named *Superspinal, passing under or above the Ligament of the Scapular Notch, and always inos- culating, under the Acromion, with a branch re- flected from the Subscapular. Some of them are seen occasionally arising by a common trunk, with the Vertebral Artery, the first Intercostal, or the Sternal Artery; although most com- monly, when they rise not directly from the Brachial itself, they are seen rising by a common trunk with the Sacrothyroid. Hence Anatomists, since the days of Haller, have been puzzling themselves, and confounding their readers, by sedulously detailing the many varieties, and the many combinations of the Sacrothyroid, of which they have read, of which they have heard, or which they may have seen ; and it is not improbable, that future Anatomists of the like genius, temper, and industry, will, in searching for novelties, describe many more that have not yet been entered on record. When the common trunk, that furnishes the whole, or a number of these branches, is once considered as the Sacrothyroid, we need hardly be surprised to00 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. learn, that sometimes the Sacrothyroid is larger than the rest of the Brachial Artery, and more particularly in young subjects (*), where the Atlantal or Superior extremities bear a less proportion, than they do in the adult, to the several parts on which the Sacro- thyroid itself, and these irregular branches, are ramified. axillary portion (/•). This portion of the Brachial Artery is at its com- mencement surrounded by the Axillary Plexus of Nerves, by the Axillary Veins, the Axillaiy Glands and the adipose substance, which occupies the space between the Pectoral and Subscapular muscles, and between these muscles and the Serratus Magnus. On approaching the Humerus, it runs between the Biceps and the long head of the Triceps Extensor, and may always be found beneath the Integuments' the Fascia, and the Nerves, where it runs between the tendons of the Pectoralis and Latissimus Dorsi. 0) Thyro'dea Inferior Arteria, toto in pueris reliquo „ ’ , Viae maj0r’pr0xime exterius- Vertebral*, ontur, eodem fere loco, quo Mammaria et Intercostal* Superior -Hac magna Arteria ab origine in tres vel quatuor ramos finditur "-Haller, Fascic. iL (i) See page 53.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 89 The branches which it regularly sends off, are cer- tain branches named Arteries Thoraciccc, and a large branch named Scapularus (/). As for other two branches, usually called Circumflexes Humeri, though regular in their general course and destination, they are not so constantly from the Axillary Portion as> the common descriptions would lead us to suppose. ARTERI.-E THORACIC.E. In general, these Arteries are meant to include all the branches from the Axillary Portion, except the Scapularis and the two Circumflexes. In their ra- mifications, they extend from the Deltoid and Sub- scapular muscles, as far as the Sternum, and from the Clavicle to the fifth rib. Towards the Clavicle and Acromion Process, where they spread on the Deltoid and Subclavian muscles, they inosculate with branches from the Subclavian portion of the Brachial. They supply copiously the Pectorales, the Serratus Magnus, and often the Subscapularis, and in the in- terstices between the ribs, communicate with branch- es from the Intercostals and the Sternal Artery, and with other branches of the Sternal Artery in the substance of the Mammae. They sometimes arise (t) Subscapularis, Infiascapularis, or Inferior Scapul®.90 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTE/lIES. by four, sometimes by six, and sometimes by more separate trunks, though these trunks, when viewed in the species, have no regular nor determinate size, no fixed nor relative proportion, nor definite extent of ramification. In several cases, I have seen the great- er number arise by a common trunk ; and Mur- ray observes, that what he denominates the Longer Thoracic, has sometimes been seen arising from the Circumflex, or Inferior Scapular («;). Some, more fond of prescribing to nature, than of allowing nature to prescribe to them, have chosen to restrict their number to four, the Highest, the Long, the Humeral, and the Alar, while others, as Bichat’s Continuator, for instance, restrict them to three, the Acromial, the External Superior, and External Inferior (w). By (in) T/ioracica Longior, seu Thoracica Superior, seu Mamma- lia Externa. Ex cireumflexa vel Scapulari inferiori aliquando elevatur. («) The terms Superior, Inferior, and External, have often, in this writer, an extremely vague sense. In another place, speaking of the branches of what he calls the Inferior Scapul<e, he observes, that one is clescendente, ou. Antcrieure, another Transversale, ou Postcrieure■ Nor is Boyer more precise in the use of them. “ Afin,” he says, “ afin d’indiquer plus exact- “ ment les rapports de 1’Axillaire avec les parties voisines, nous “ y eonsiderons quatre cotes, im supferieure ou externe, un in- “ ferieur ou interne, un Anterieur et un Postferieur.” In this way of writing, it is difficult to say how many are the terms that may be synonymous with Superior, Inferior, External, and91 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. these ai bitrary limitations of number, several branches from the Axillary Portion are left without a class, and without a name. Though without a name, they ought to have been left; as names and descriptions, untying general and permanent characters, where none are to be found, are the sources of error, but never of any important information. The learned Portal, declining either to specify the number, or assign names to these varying and ir- regular branches, has chosen to divide them into three classes: the Anterior, the Middle, and the Posterior. His. method is preferable to the one in use, but his terms denoting position are vague, and he does not seem to place that confidence on the ac- curacy of his own classification, that might have been expected ; for what he calls the Posterior Tho- racics, are among the branches which he afterwards c^lls the Superior Scapulars, and sometimes the Small Internal Scup.dars (0). In all the accounts rrV^6 ^ emP'0yed t0 COnvey a" indefinite number of mdefimte meanings, may, in one respect, be classed the words that convey no meaning at all. „ ,(<>) “ U‘S Art^reS 'rhora(,hiques Posterieures, sortent de !Vx- et Intenrnre de I’.nere Axillaire, et se .« ^ ‘ daus le muscle bous-.Scapulaire, en deux on ,ro,s « d,,X’ qUe, ' T aPPent‘ qUe,q0f fois '**/*«« S'ujwtures ernes,pour les dnrtinguer e agrande .capture Extern*. a92 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. of these Arteries, where they are named and de- scribed separately, their particular distribution, in some individuals, is assumed as the ground wirk, and the varieties of other individuals, in the manner of Haller, afterwards interwoven to supply the place of a general description ; but no varieties eked, inter- woven, or huddled together, can answer that pur- pose. The details of varieties being only the ma- terials for a general description, which should always express the characters of the species, without de- scending to the endless, jarring, inconsistent varieties of the individuals. ARTERIA SCAPULARIS, Is the largest Artery which takes its origin in the Axilla, and, though not the only one, is nevertheless the principal Artery which belongs to the Scapula, “ 11 y a deux sortes d’Arteres Sous-Scapulaires, les Superieures “ et les Inferieures. “ Les Arteres Sous-Scapulaires Superieures, sortent quelque- “ fois de I’une des Arteres Thorachiques, mais trfes souvent “ elles viennent du tron- de I'Axillaire m£nie, elles par; ourent “ le bord superieure de lomoplate, et foumissent des raineaux <1 au muscles sur-epineux, au Sous-Scapulawe, et au petit “Pectoral: Plusieuis Rameaux parviennent dans le Plexus “ Brachial, et aux Glandes Axiil&ires.”A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 95 G 2 and the muscles that rise from it. It sometimes originates among the Thoracics, but generally after them, at some more distant part of the course of the Axillary Portion, and not far from the tendons of the Peetoralis and Latissimus Dorsi. In point of magnitude, it does not appear much inferior to the Humeral Artery, and in those cases, where it fur- nishes the deep and the two circumflex Arteries of the Humerus, is even larger. In different indi- viduals, it is known to exhibit different varieties of ramification (p) ; but always sends branches to the Subscapular muscle, the Latissimus Dorsi, the Teres Major, the Teres Minor, and the Infra-spinatus; sending often branches to the Axillary Glands, the Capsular Ligament, and to some of the tendons of the muscles attached to it. Of what might be deemed its regular branches, there are two comparatively large in size, the one I would call the Sacro-scapular, and the other is ahead}' known by the name of the Circumjlex Scapu- lar. The Sacro-scapular, continued somewhat in (p) What Murray calls its Romus Muscularis, for instance, is often wanting, ami its place, partly and principally, supplied by an Artery, which, in his language, is an Artery, “ lusignis “ niagnitudinm, et sa:pe propria: originis, in Mibscapulari Ar- “ tcrias, ad basiin usque Scapulae pror: pentes eniittc iis, et “ porro ad Teretem Majorem, Serrntuui, Latissimuin, Ulaudu- “ lasque alares surculos validos (onge lateque dispergens.”,A description of the arteries. the course of the Trunk, extends nearly in the ge- nera! direction of the Sacral or Inferior Costa of the Scapula, and after sending off a number of branches to the parts adjacent, is usually seen reflected at- lantad towards the base, and observed to inosculate with some transverse Cervical branches from the Subclavian Portion of the Brachial. The Circumflex Scapular, still more regular in its appearance, is reflected over the edge of the Scapula; after passing the long head of the Triceps, and run- ning underneath the Teres Minor and the Infra- spinatus, is ramified copiously on these muscles; while in all the cases, where anatomists hitherto have accurately traced its ramifications, it inosculates freely under the Acromion with that branch of the Subclavian that is named Superspinal. ARTERI* CIRCUMFLEX*. One of these Arteries is named the Anterior, and the other the Posterior, not with a reference to the aspects of the Humerus, but to those of the Thorax. They would be better named the Thenal and Anconal; however, taking the names as they are, the smaller of the two, named the An- terior, between the insertion of the Pectoral muscle and the Capsular Ligament, runs round by the Thenal aspect of the Humerus, to-the groove that re- ceives the tendon of the Biceps. In this course, itA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 95 passes under the Coracobrachial is, and under the short head of the Biceps ; sends off branches to these muscles, and not unfrequently to the Subscapular, the long head of the Triceps Extensor, the Latissi- mus Dorsi, and sometimes to the Deltoid. It branches also on the groove itself, on the Tendons of the Biceps and Pectoral muscles, on the Periosteum and Capsular Ligament, inosculating by twigs with the other Circumflex, by twigs with the Circumflex Scapular branch, and b}' some twigs, even with the deep Arteries of the Humerus. The larger Circumflex, named the Posterior, runs round in an opposite direction by the Anconal aspect of the Humerus, passing, in its course, be- tween the head of the Triceps and Humerus, and between the Sacral Costa of the Scapula and Teres Major. It is principally expended upon the Del- toid; but sends, also, at times, small branches to the Subscapular muscle, the Coracobrachialis, the Teres Minor, the Bocipital groove, the Periosteum and Capsvdar Ligament, inosculating with the branches of other Arteries that happen to be ramified on these parts. With respect to their origin, these two Arteries are very irregular. They sometimes rise by separate trunks from the Axillary Portion ; sometimes, again, the one arises from the Axillary Portion, while the other arises from its Scapular branch; sometimes « 3JU A description of the arteries. they spring by a common stem from the Axillary 1 ortion ; sometimes, again, by a common stem from its Scapular branch; and sometimes the larger or Anconal branch, rises in common with the deep Ar- tery of the Humerus. THE HUMERAL PORTION. The Humeral Portion of the Brachial Artery commences where the Axillary Portion ends, and is usually described as extending thence to the bend of the arm, where it divides into the Radial and Ulnar branches. But this description, although consistent with the figures given by Eustachius and Haller, does not correspond with the appearances which the Artery often exhibits in the species. If the Humeral Portion is to be defined as terminating always in what are called the Radial and Ulnar branches, there are many cases, where it must terminate near the Axilla, and at all the distances between that and the bend of the arm. On the other hand, if it be defined as always extending to the bend of the arm, one or other of the two branches, which are now denominated the Radial and Ulnar, must as- sume the name of Humeral Artery; so that the term Humeral Artery, or Humeral Portion of the Biachial Aiteiy, must, at different times, be made toA DESCRIPTION OF T1IE ARTERIES. 97 convey very different meanings (q). As for Haller’s Figure of this Artery, and its ramifications, after what he has said concerning the principles on which he proceeded, it cannot be thought disrespectful or injurious to his high and justly acquired reputation. (y) Portal is very confused and inconsistent in b s descrip- tion of this Artery, which he terms the Brachial. At one time, he makes it to terminate at the bend of the arm, at another, in what he calls the Radial and Ulnar branches; and again, when speaking of the high division, he considers these branches as two Brachials. “ Cette Artfere, (l’Artore Braehiale) qui est la continuation “de l’Axilaire, est uu peu moms grosse qu’elle; elle porte ce “ nom jusqircs vers le pli du coude, uu elle se divise en deux “ Artores, qui vont a l’avant bras “ Le longueur de I’Artfcre Braehiale n’est pas toujour? la “ mSme, se divisaut tantdt plus haut, taiitot plus has. “ J’a vu cette Art ere se diviser elle-meme en deux troncs, “ et former deux Arthes Brackiules, et alors chacune d’eiles “ alioit, en se prolongeant, former la Cubitale et la Radia/e Sabatier is equally inconsistent as Portal; for, although he describes the Humeral Artery as terminating regularly, and losing its name in the Radial and Ulnar, yet he afterwards speaks, as if these Arteries were not entitled to assume the name, till they reached the fore-arm, that when they divide in the region of the Hqnjerui, they form a double Humeral Ar- tery, and, by parity of reasoning, would form, also, a double Axillary, and a double Subclavian, were they to separate in the region of the Neck. “ Lorsque l’Artere Axillaire a donne naissanee aux deux “ Circonflexes, elle change de nom, et prend celui d’Artfere G 4J A DESCniPTION OF THE ARTERIES. to say. It IS not an accurate description of any ap- pearance that is common to the species; nor, indeed, a description applicable throughout to any appear- ance that occurs in individuals, but merely a de- scription of one of the occasional appearances of the " Humerale, qu’elle conserve jusqu’A sa division en Radiale et “ en Cubitale.' L’Anfere Humerale est one de celles qui presented les ‘‘ pluS de vari4t®s- 0n la v°it souvent se diviser a la partie “ moyenne, et a la partie superieure du Bras. Monro Pa “ trouvee double dans un sujet, oii PArtfere sous elavidre pro- ‘ dulS0lt elle-rneme les deux Arteres Radiale et Cubirale.” I know not the Monro, whose authority he has quoted in this instance. In the second volume of the Edinburgh Medical Essays, the first Dr. Monro, of Edinburgh, has given a figure, showing the Humeral Artery dividing into what he calls the Radml and Ulnar branches, “ as it is coming out of the arm- “ pit.” If this be the case to which Sabatier refers-, he is very inaccurate as to the idea which he entertains of it I know from inquiry, that the present Professors, the son an.- the grandson of the first Dr. Monro, have no where mentioned so early a commencement of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries;. and that Mr. Fyfe, who has written on the Arteries, and is well acquainted with all the preparations in the Anatomical Museum of Edinburgh, has never seen so early a divisiou of these branches. If the statement be accurate, the Monro of Sabatier must, therefore, be different from any of the three Professors of Edinburgh. The appearance of a double Humeral Artery, is often oc- casioned by a branch arising from the Humeral Artery, near the Axilla, or, at least, high in the region of the Humerus; andA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 99 Artery, along with varieties of ramification which he had observed at different times, and in different subjects, and from which lie had formed that ideal combination, which the Figure represents. His ho- nest and manly declaration of the motives by which he was actuated, in constructing that Figure, should exempt him from censure ; but in what manner shall we vindicate those, who, not looking beyond the Figure, have servilely described his ideal combina- tion at the time they were pretending to be copying which, after running-in a parallel direction, enters the Humeral Artery again, or some of its branches, near the bend of the arm. In four preparations, that are now before me, this branch enters the Radial Artery; in three of them, opposite to the bend of the arm ; in the fourth, some inches beyond it. In one, where it enters at the bend of the arm, it is as large from its very commencement, as the Radial Artery, while the part of the Radial, interposed between it and the Humeral Ar- tery, appears as it were a transverse branch, joining a Radial and Humeral Artery, that had previously separated, near the Axilla. Mr. Bums calls these branches Vasa Aberrantia, and has five preparations in which they occur. (See his Varieties Of the Larger Arteries.) The first Dr. Monro has delineated one in the second volume of the Edinburgh Medical Essays; and Haller, after speaking of such a branch, says, “ Aliquid “ huic fabricae simile pingit Alexander Monrous in Edinburg, “Ess. T. ii. Tab. ii. fig. 4. Ubi Arteria satis alto loco ab “ Humerali orta in Ulnarem in flexu Cubiti se iminittit.”— Haller, Fascic. vi. p. 20. o 5A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 100 from nature, and thereby have led a number of those, who carelessly confided in their descriptions, to entertain the erroneous opinion, that the Humeral Artery in size, distribution, and ramification, is re- markably regular throughout the species. Their several accounts, upon the idea that they were taken from actual observation, were naturally viewed as corroborative evidence of one another, and accord- ingly, the whole considered as a proof, that the Ar- teiy had the same, or nearly the same appearance and character, in all the individuals where it had been examined. So late even as the time of Camper, the figures, in both Eustachius and Haller, which were thought to be confirmed by these shadows of actual observation, are appealed to as evidence, that the high division of the Humeral Artery docs not exist, or occur but seldom (r). The truth, how- ever, is, the high division occurs so often, that we ■f (r) “ Quum quinque ejusmodi exempla ad manus mihi “sint, non possum non Shakeio contra Camperum adsentiri, “ qui quidein in Demomtrationibus Anatomico-Pathologicis, “lib. i. p. 15. Ait Sharpius Humeralem Arteriam supra “ cubitum non raro se dividere adnotat. Dubito vehementer, “ Eustachius illam non pingit, neque Hailerus bujus natune “ lusus mentionem tacit, et si quid mea valet autoritas, fateor, “ me nquam altius quam earn depinxi, divisionem in Radia- “ lem et Ulnarem vidisse.” Vide i-oemmerring in nota ad § cxlv. Tom. v. Fabric. Corporis Httmani.O 6 / A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 101 can hardly, with any propriety, call it an anomaly, or presume to mention the place or manner of the division that are common to the species (s). By the Humeral Artery, or the Humeral Portion of the Brachial Artery, we are simply to understand (s') It would appear, that Camper, Soemmerring, and my friend Mr Hums, who thought Haller a stranger to the high division of the Humeral Artery, had either overlooked, or en- tirely forgotten, some of the observations, at least, that ac- company his Figure, representing the divisions of this Artery. The truth is, Haller himself had not only seen the high divi- sion, but mentions a great variety of authors, who had seen it before him, and even some who thought it the general or com- mon division. “ Arteria denique radialis, directus Arterice Humerariae et “ profundior finis, nunc dicenda superest. In fine brachialis “ interni, T. iv. fere oritur. Aliquoties tamen in smnmo “ humero et supra ipsurn ejus caput natam vidi, quae ob- “ servatio ab Andrea Laurentio ortum traxit, qui primus “ duplicem basilicam Arteriam vidit, profun dam et subcu- “ taneam, unde Arteria pulsans radii nasceretur, Hist. Anat. “ p. 146. Deinde ita frequenter hsec observatio Bidloo obtigit “ ut tunc, cuin Arteria Brachialis simplex esset, pro peculiari “ observatione haberet, ut ex Idonis Wolph, Chirurgicis Ob- “ seroationibus adparet. p. 64. Ideo enim credidit gangrmnam “ ex operatione aueurismatis successisse, quod unica Arteria “ Humeraria foret, quae soleat duplex esse. Nam liaec altera “ ratio est, quare recentiores Anatomici minori cum metu “ Arteriam Humerariam ligent resecentve quod nempe spe- “ rent subsidio Radialem Arteriam lore, qua? superius et ad “ summum huoierum sacpc proveniat. Sed ea spes certe perA description of the arteries. 102 that continuation of the Axillary Portion, from wMch the three Arteries of the fore-arnr, the JUditfl, the Ulnar, and the Interosseal, derive their origin. The place and manner of that origin to be left unde, fined, as these differ in different individuals. I„ , "me. experiment, medlocris e,t, earn n,,. eju, fcbric. e*. „ e”P et m"lt0 fmqnentiora. in qnibn, Arteri, Radi.fe a franco in cubiti demum flexione decedit. „ " Eamdem CjUS 0ri?h,is' ^uam n*LOU. utilitatem vidit „ m C(,mPen(ltu Anatom, n. 66. et i„ I. R Moebii, „ „ ■ f ed‘C,S Theorems et PraCcis, n. viii. /„ „ f S 1 VUblere P^^mofeltdter sonata, u I ’ , CUm 'COne> ubi addit- communicare circa cubit.,m „ G /aP. FUAM F- HEISTERUM * new brachium am- tt P ^ ratWne' "• 3L Ubi Alteria“ nonnnnquam brachialem „ ” SUm“a aX'lla fmdi> et radiaIem ^ latus externum bicipiti, e^endere h.nc absque metu in aneurismate Arteriam „ . ‘^ l,-an P°sse scribit, cum alter *qne fere grandis Jrnncus radialis pro alendo brachio supersit, similis ^est ob- „ 7' \ ZACHAR1^ P*™he in Sylloge' Ob, Anatomiearum „ l l "• ' et J> B- WlNst0WI> “• 143, et Winkleri, n. 49 „ p • f°N,!01’ Edmh- Ess- T■ «• T. 2. f. 3, et Joann,s w p N’ aL Ch,ntrg- T' “• P- (pro frequenti) et Philipp, Ad. Boehmeri, Fascic. Obser, Anat. Prcef. p xi “ et J. Erneste Hebenstreit, m Prog. ad Dissert. Hahn,/ p. v, et vmClan. P Conrad, Fabric,, fc Prog, ad Anal. , Femm• ‘749- edlt° P- 13' 111 etiam latere frequent esse, ut tribus digitis sub ala a trunco axillari ramus magnus ‘ sec :» at, hospes olim noster H. F. Le Dran non satis con- stan er observavit Operal. de Ckhurg. p. 374. Aliter itemm , TnEWIUS n°“ radialem solum ad summum humermnA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 103 rare instance, which. I have seen, and which is still preserved in my collection, the three Arteries spring- up together at the bend of the arm (t). But if one of the three arise separately, as is generally the case, then the Humeral Artery, or what I would call the Humeral Artery, will afterwards terminate in the other two. Thus, for example, if the Radial Artery arise first, the Humeral Artery will terminate in the Ulnar and Interosseal; if the Ulnar Artery arise first, the Humeral will terminate in the Radial and “ ortam, sed praeterea duos ejus peculiares arcus vidit, unurn “ iu cubito cum ulnari, alterum ad carpum cum interossea “factum. Comm. Nov. 1737, p. 187. T iii. f. 5. Alias in “ medio humero Radiaiis uaseitur, quales III. Meisteri altera “ observatio est, ut Arteria Radiaiis ad finem deltoidis pro- “ veuiret, ubi vox usque videtur superflua esse. Talis est “ etiamobservatio Petschii, n. 35. Eschenbachii. n. 114 1. et “ \Vikkleri, n 50. quam fabricam etiam ipse vidi et Cl. “ Daubenton, Dcscr. du Cabinet du Roi, T. iii. p. 159, et J. “ Ernestos Hebenstreit qui Brachialem Arteriam ad inser- “tionem Coracobrachialis musculi findi dixit, et Cas. Chris- “ tophorus Schmiedel. 1. c. f. i, et n. 9.”—Haller, Fascic. v/. p. 33, 34. (t) In this case, the Radial and Ulnar run superficially, peripherad of the muscles, but beneath the Fascia ; and in the Other arm of the same individual, the appearance is similar in every respect, excepting that the Ulnar Artery rises about a quarter of an inch proximad of the division into the Radial and Interosseal branches.104 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Interosseal; or, if the Interosseal arise first, the Humeral will terminate in the Radial and Ulnar. The first case is common, the second is frequent but the third is rare (u). In al! cases, the Humeral Artery is immediately under the integuments and Fascia, situated on the M I have never yet seen this third species of division in ...tore, hut have . drawing before „ j„st by a friend, .here the Humeral Artery, „ea, ,h. Axil,,, ,e„d, off the taterosse,, from its RaJht ^ and t|,c„ separate, „ « bend of the into the Kadial ,„d U|„„ brand,,, „I'' ", br“C''CS' 'S fto» the drawing, Pheratlof the muscles, though , cannot ,e.„, whether Ll ere pmpW „r „f ft. Fascia. M, friend Mr. Bom, also, writes me, that he has a preparation, where " the Ho' -a Artery a, the fdd of the Axiii., divides into Jo branches, the deepest, and tha, nearest fi, ,A„ (7„, „* „f ,h, arm, „ a.,out the sire of a ero. quill, ,he other is a little •Set; the brst descend, along the junction of the Braehteu, Interims mnsele, and the Triceps. „ g„„ cff Anastomot'eus, and then dip. „„der ,h. heads of the Fiev.r teles, beneath which it is completely boried, and where it ; yn'° ““ ''n“'rior ‘""J Posterior Interosseal Arteries *cl, furnish blood to almost’ all those moscies which ou^ to have received blood from the Ulnar Artery. The other, and the larger trunk, descend, along the Ulnar marge. „f the Tneep, mnsele, till i, reachS the extremity of U,, Humerus. A. this spot, it divides into „» Radial »d m»»r arteries, which are of equal six,. The former vess," runs in its usual course the Intt*.- , t P but a- ,. ’ r descends above the muscles; dissection being considerably advanced before 1 saw105 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Ulnar side of the Biceps; the Ulnar, also, and Inter- osseal, when they rise high, regularly continue on the same side. Nay, even the Radial, when it rises high, seldom, if ever, crosses the Biceps, till that muscle sends off the Tendinous Aponeurosis, which generally, if not always, protects this Artery, as it passes obliquely to its own side. Whatever be the branch, also, of the fore-arm, that is sent off in the region of the Humerus, it is never separated far from the Trunk. Of the three, however, the Ulnar, from its running occasionally peripherad of the Fascia, is that which admits of separation to the greatest distance. The separated branches run parallel, or nearly parallel, to the course of the Trunk, as far as the Distal extremity of the Hu- the arm, 1 cannot be certain whether it run above or below the Fascia. From its giving off none but Cutaneous ramifications, I believe it was placed above the Fascia.” The following case, quoted by Soemmerring from Hilde- brandt, is so vaguely described, that I scarcely know to which of the three kinds of division it belongs. “ G. F. Hildebrandt “ Rainum Arteriac Brachial is invenit, qui in superficie pro- “ cedens in Arteriam Kadialem et Ulnarem dividebatur, quae “pari mode in Antibracliio superfkiem tenebant, truncus “ autein Arteriae Brachialis abibat in Arteriam lnterosseam “ sol,to crussiorem.” In this case, did the three Arteries of the fore-arm arise together, or did one of them arise separately, and tbe trunk afterwards divide into the other two, or if it di- vided into the other two, into which two did it divide ?A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 106 merus, unless that branch be the Radial Artery, arising from the Ulnar side of the Humeral, in which case, it crosses the Trunk on the Dermal aspect, to assume its regular place on the fore-arm. After examining a variety of arms during dissec- tion, comparing more than thirty-four dried pre- parations, and reading the Angeiological Descriptions of most of the writers since the days of Eustathius, I cannot discover among alh the branches that are ramified between the Axilla and fore-arm, any that, in strict propriety of language, can be called regular. The Profunda Humeri, the Arteria Nutritia that penetrates the bone, and the branch, styled the Ramus Anastomoticus,‘being regular only in a li- mited sense, when compared with the others that have still less of the uniform character. PROFUNDA HUMERI (v). The Profunda Humeri, frequently double, is the largest branch that is ramified between the Axilla (u) It has also been named the Great Profunda, to dis- tinguish it from a branch of a smaller size, and a similar course, that has sometimes been described a§ a Little Pro- funda. What has been termed Radial Profunda, is a branch of the Profunda that happens to inosculate with a Radial recurrent, “ a Ramus Radialis communicans sire Ramus “ Collaterals Radialis,” as Socmmerring expresses it WhatA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 107 and fore-arm (tv). It rises generally from the Hu- meral Portion of the Brachial Artery, near its com- has been denominated Ulnar Profunda, is a branch either from the Humeral or Profunda, that happens to inosculate with an Ulnar recurrent. In the language of Soemmerring, “ a Ramus “ Ulnaris sive Cubitalis couimunicans sive Collateralis L’lnaris “ sive Ramus Inferior.” The term Inferior bearing an allusion to some other branch of a like kind that he calls Superior. From an idea that the Profunda runs somewhat parallel to the Humeral Artery, it has been named the Collateral Artery, the Great Collateral, the Superior Collateral, the External Col- lateral. The Great Collateral, with a reference to a smaller Artery or Arteries, thought Collateral also; the Superior Col- lateral, with a reference to the same, as arising after it; and the External Collateral, from its extending to the Radial or Ex- ternal side, in contradistinction to the small Collaterals, which continue on the Ulnar or Internal side. When two small Collaterals are described, the Great Collateral is then the Superior and External Collateral, to distinguish it from the first of the small Collaterals, which is the Superior and Internal; Superior, with respect to its fellow beyond it, and Internal, with respect to the Great Collateral that extends its course to the Radial aspect Une of these small Internal Collaterals, is what some denominate the Ulnar Profunda. It may fairly be questioned, whether Anatomists, in describing these Arteries, were ever surpassed by the builders of Babel, in their con- fusion of language and ideas ? (u>) “ Plerumque a singular! truneo provenit et non raro “ duobus. Omnium Ramorum in humero natoruin maxima.” —Haller, Farcic. vi. p. 18.wa A description of the arteries. —Fascic. vi. p. 18, 19. menccment; sometimes from the Scapular Artery ; sometimes from the Scapular Circumflex ; and some- times from the Posterior or Anconal Circumflex. It is not only irregular in its origin, and mode of origin, but in its size, and in the number of its rami- fications. Its permanent characters are to be found principally in its course. It enters generally, if not always, between the second and third head of the Triceps (x); winds round in a spiral manner, ac- companying, for a while, the Radial nerve, and at last, terminates in small branches, near the Radial condyle, where it communicates Svith Radial recur- rents. In the progress of its course, it is seen com- municating with branches from the Humeral Artery ; near its commencement with branches from the Axillary, and, not unfrequently, with Ulnar recur- rents, by means of a branch, or sometimes branches, that it sends off before it turns round the Anconal aspect. (.r) Haller in speaking of its course, says, “ Provenit ad " imam oram Tcretis Majoris cum Latissimo conjnncti et “ continuo-se int°r brevem longumque extensorem abs.ondit.” But this language is not to he understood, as if it passed to the Radial side, between the first and second head of the Triceps; the figures to which he refers show the contrary; and he afterwards adds, “ Inter Brachialem externum et brevem Circumflectitur, circa Os Humeri, comes Nervi Radialis.”A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 109 It is differently ramified in different individuals, and is always proportionally larger or smaller, accord- ing to the number and size of the branches which it distributes to the Integuments, Periosteum and bone, and the several muscles that wholly, or in part, are adjacent to its course; as the Teres, Deltoid, the Biceps, Triceps, the Coracobrachialis, the Brachieus, the Radial Extensor, and the Supinator Radii longus. ARTERIA NUTRITIA HUMERI. The name which is given to this Artery would seem to imply, that it exclusively enters the Hu- merus, and supplies it with nourishment, though the truth is, that Arterial branches, conveying a red or transparent fluid, may be traced, by injection, en- tering the Humerus, and every other bone of a large size, at various places, and in great numbers, where- ever they are covered with a Periosteum. An Arterial branch, if it enter the Plumerus on the Thenal aspect, and near to the middle, where the structure is particularly hard and compact, if it be not a small Capillary branch, but a branch of a much superior size, easily discernible by the naked eye, and easily distinguished, on account of its mag- nitude, from all the branches that penetrate the110 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. bone immediately around it, that branch is the Arteria Nutritia Humeri, the Nutritia Magna, or Arteria Medullaris, as it sometimes is called, from spreading on the Marrow or Medulla of the Humerus. Ei e it reaches the bone, it often sends branches to neighbouring muscles and the Periosteum, and on these parts is differently ramified in different indi- viduals. It is not always a regular branch of tho Humeral Artery (y) • it sometimes springs from one of the branches in the vicinity of the place where it enters; it is sometimes wanting (2), and instead of one, there are sometimes two (a), which from their size, and the place where they enter, appear to have an equal claim to the title. In all cases, the • Nutritia Humeri entering the bone in a slanting direction, from the Thenal aspect, regftlarly points to its Distal extremity, while the Nutritiae of the Ulna and Radius, enternig also in a slanting direction from the Thenal aspect, as re- (y) “ Alias Nutritia propago Rami est, qui altera Pro- “ fund a vocari potest”—Haller, Fascic. vi. p. 21. (z) There are many Humeri, where no canal, for the ad- mission of any Artery answering the description, can be dis- covered. (a) “ Duo Rami Nutritia-, et duos aliquotres ridi, duobus “ valde vuinis lor s .n Os Humeri desceuderunt Nutritia “W.nk eri, n. IS. cub ea Nutritia nonnunquam altera Nu- “ tntia sequitur, ceqne magna.’’—Haller, ibid.A DESCRIPTION or THE ARTERIES. Ill gularly point to the Proximal extremities of their bones. In short, the Nutritiae of these three bones point to the elbow joint. In the Sacral extremities, the corresponding Nutritial Arteries, which regularly enter in a slanting direction from the Popliteal aspect, run proximad in the Femur, and distad in both the Tibia and Fibula; or, in other words, theyr point from the knee joint. On comparing the extremities. Atlantal and Sacral therefore, are we to infer, that the different directions of these Arteries in the bones that correspond, and their similar directions in the bones that do not, de- pend on a difference and similarity of position in the attitudes of standing, sitting, or lying? or will it be thought more natural to suppose, that, as in the Teeth, these Arteries point towards the extremity where the bone is first completed in its growth, and first assumes that hardness and form to which it is destined. The Analogous Arteries in the Cow and the Horse, slant very little on entering the bone, and occasionally appear as if they entered in a direction perpendicular to the axis. RAMUS ANASTOMOTICUS Rises generally from the Humeral Artery, but sometimes from the Ulnar (6); sometimes from (6) See Bums’ Varieties ot the Larger Arteries.A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES.' the parallel re-entering branch, called Vas Aberrans (c); and sometimes, also, from the Interosseal (</), when that rises high in the region of the Humerus, and runs nearer to the Ulnar aspect, than the common trunk of the Radial and Ulnar. From whatever source it derives its origin, it rises always a little proximdd of the joint of the elbow; rises regularly from the Ulnar side of its parent trunk ; runs, for a little, to the Ulnar aspect, then branches out in various directions, inosculating with branches from the Profunda, and with recurrent branches from the fore-arm; some of them ascending by the Thenal aspect^ and some ascending by the Anconal, between the Ulnar Condyle and Ole- cranon. It is named Ramus Anastomoticus, not as the only Anastomotic ; and Ramus Anastomoticus Magnus, not as a great Anastomotic; but consider- ing its size, and the number of its branches, because it inosculates more frequently, and on more aspects, by free and obvious communications, than any other branch usually assigned to the Humeral Portion of the Brachial Artery. When named the Anastomo- ticus Major, it is named improperly, as from this name the young Anatomist is led to expect a Ramus Anastomoticus Minor, and must be disappointed i» (c) raid, and Note, page 99. (tl) See Note, page 104.US A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. his researches, if he looks for such in the catalogue of Arteries belonging to the Humerus. Haller found it a constant branch (r); I have occasionally found it wanting; and Soemmerring, who also found it wanting, has described the manner in which he saw the deficiency supplied (f). RADIAL, ULNAR, AND INTEROSSEAL ARTERIES. As the permanent characters of these Arteries are not to be found in either the place or mode of their origin, we must try to discover them in either their course, their general destination, or their mode of distribution (g). (e) “ Anaslomolicits Ramus communis Utrique Brachialium “ musculorum, Intern! et Externi, perpetuus et notata dignus “ ob conjunetiones varias, quas cum Arieriis inferioribus “ hahet.”—Fascic. vi. p. 21. (f) “ Ubi Ramus iste Anastomoticus interdum deficit, ab “ arcu aliquo suppletur, qui e surculo rami pro ventre externo “ tricipitis brachii sur. uloque Arteriae Humeri Profundae ortum “ trahit; nunquam vero desunt Anastomoses Majores a front* “ a tergo mmores.”—Socmmerring, Fab■ Curpor. Human. Of) In trying to form a clear, precise, and steady idea of these Arteries, Anatomists seem to have experienced as great a difficulty, as in trying to form a clear, precise, and general114 A description of the arteries. The Radial Artery, whatever be the place or mode ,tS 0nSin’18 always to be found towards the Radial side of the fore-arm, running generally, and with i-lea of the Humeral Artery. Mr. Bell’s language is, “ The “ Humeral Artery having left this most critical point at the be„djng of the arm, divides into three great branches, tie lir"D'AL'. ULNAR> and Intki50sseoo« Arteries; at least, the „ na,r S‘VeS °ffthe lnterosseous so soon, and the interosseous 18 S° large’ and has 50 Poised a destination, that I take the “ privilege of describing the three branches apart. „ “ ThC Kadial Arte'ry goes off ‘ike a branch from the Ulnar, or, in other words, the Ulnar seems to continue in the course of the mam Artery, while the Kadial goes off to one side; “ The Interosseous, again, is truly a branch from the Ulnar • “ !t comes off where the Ulnar lies deepest. “ These are the great divisions of the Artery,” (namely the Humeral.) Portal describes the usual division of the Humeral Artery into what are called the Radial and Ulnar branches, as a little above the bend of the arm; and, like Mr. Bell, afterwards talks ot the Radial Artery, as being sometimes a branch of the Ulnar. “ L’Artbre Brachiale parvenue ordinairemeut, comme il a “ dit’ Un peu au'-|essu du pli du coude, se divise en deux “ branches principals qui descendent sur Pavant bras, dont “ Pune est appelee Cubitale parcequ’elle suit cPassez pres le “ CubitUS’ et 1>autre est aPPe1^ Radiate parcequ’elle corres- “pond au Radius; celle-ci est quelquefois une tranche de la “ Cubitale." Speaking of the place, where the Humeral Arterv divides into what are called the Radial and Ulnar branches. » AboutA DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. 115 few exceptions, between the Supinator Radii Longus, the Flexor Radialis, and resting on the Flexor Longus Pollicis. On reaching the Distal extremity of the Radius, it leaves the Thenal aspect of the arm ; runs anconad under the Abductor and Extensores an inch, says Mi'. Fyfe, below the elbow j it commonly divides into two principal branches, the Radial and Ulnar. It happens, however, now and then, that this division takes place directly over the joint of the elbow j at other times, about the middle of the arm, and not unfrequently as high as the Axilla.” When the humeral Artery divides high, Anatomists describe it as dividing into the Radial and Ulnar branches, although there be always one of the two, that is, strictly speaking, neither Radial nor Ulnar, but the common trunk of the Radial and Interosseal, or the common trunk of the Ulnar and Interosseal. If the Humeral Artery terminate regularly in the Radial and Ul- nar branches, it is impossible that one of these branches can rise before the other, and yet Anatomists speak as if sometimes the Radial, and sometimes the Ulnar rose highest in the region of the Humerus. When they use this language, they forget their own definition of the Arteries, and secretly view the common trunk as the Humeral Artery, while they call it by the name of the Radial or Ulnar. This inaccuracy of thought and con- ception, must necessarily lead to inconsistency and confusion of expression. “ In three subjects, who were females,” says my friend Mr. Bums, “ the Humeral Artery did not divide till it came near to the bend of the arm ; as soon as it had divided, the Ulnar Ar- tery, instead of passing beneath the Flexor Muscles of the Car- pus, perforated the Fascia, and attached itself to the Basilic Vein, along which it descended towards the wrist.” “We know116 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Pollieis; passes to the Vola, between the Meta- carpal bone of the Thumb and fore-finger; and then in a course directed ulnad across the Meta- carpals, and close to their surface, forms a curve on the Volar aspect that is convex distad, and which has been named the Deep Volar Arch. that this vessel (the Ulnar Artery) when it rises high, lies above the Fascia.”—Burns'1 Varieties of the Larger Arteries. In these passages Mr. Burns means by the Ulnar Artery, the 'Ulnar Artery, strictly so called. But in other passages, where he speaks of the Ulnar Artery as running regularly beneath the Fascia, he, in compliance with the usual custom, calls that the Ulnar, which being the common trunk of the Ulnar and Interos- seal, should properly be called the Humeral Artery. With this explanation, the reader will understand the following passages, and, at the same time, see the importance of giving to each technical term a definite meaning, and of never varying that meaning, without a previous warning to the reader, or the per- son addressed. “ The Radial Artery seldom comes off higher than the fold of the Pectoral Muscle, but often much lower ; and in all the specimens of this lusus in our possession, we have found both the Radial and Ulnar, (i. «. the Radial and the common, trunk of the Ulnar and Interosseal) Arteries, covered by the Fascia. As I have now examined above twenty-six cases, snd have invariably found the vessels below the Fascia, I have less hesitation than I otherwise would have, in supposing that Mr. Bell’s description of this lusus is incorrect.”—Bums’ Varieties of the Larger Arteries. “ If it be remembered, that the Radial Artery-, when it comes off high, is uniformly covered as well as the Ulnar,” j. e. the117 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. H 2 The cases are rare, and extremely rare, where it passes, obliquely across the Radius, and peripherad of the Fascia, to that place between the Metacarpals from which it afterwards penetrates to the Vola. So common trunk of the Ulnar and Interosseal, “ with the Fascia, and if it be stated, that almost invariably when the Ulnar Ar- tery,” i. e. the Ulnar, strictly so called, “ originates high, it de- scends above the Fascia ; we shall be enabled to explain some phenomena, which are sometimes seen when the Brachial ves- sels are wounded. The fact of both vessels lying beneath the Fascia, when the Radial Artery rises high, and the Ulnar,” i. e. the Ulnar, strictly so called, “ when it comes off high, running more superfical than the Fascia, are points highly necessary to be kept in recollection.”—Burns’ Varieties of the Larger Ar- teries. In short, Mr. Burns always found the Radial Artery, and the common trunk of the Ulnar and Interosseal, covered by the Fascia; but the Ulnar, strictly so called, often above the Fas- cia. The language of Andreas Laurentius, who speaks of the high division of the Humeral Artery, which he calls the Basilic, and of the Radial Artery, as being its subcutaneous branch, implies nothing that is clear or precise, as to the course of the Radial Artery. “ Basilicam etiam duplieem observamus “ profundam et subcutaneam : Utraque varios ex se diffundit “ Rivos; est tamen subcutanem surculus quidam, in Carpo “ conspicuus, quo loco pulsuum differentias, adrnota manu, “explorare solemus.”—Hist. Anal. Lib. iv. Cap. x. The pas- sage quoted from Elias F. Heister, by Haller, and where it is said, that the Radial Artery runs dislurl upon the external side of the Biceps, determines as little with respect to the question, whether did it run peripherad or ccvtrad of the Humeral Fascia ?118 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. far as I know, they arc generally cases, where the Superficial Volar branch rises high in the region of the arm, and rivals somewhat the appearance of the Trunk, from which it originates (/*). The Ulnar Artery varies its course according as the Humeral Artery terminates, when the Humeral <") Mr' Burns has observed several cases of the high origin of the Volar branch, and mentions one where the Physician had mistaken it in his patient for the Radial Artery, and on its weaker and tremulous pulsation, had founded the Rationale of h.s practice : Had he moved his fingers along the Radial side of the Radius, he might probably have felt the Radial Artery »tself, where 1 have felt it oftener than once, pulsating imme- diately under the Integuments, or under the Fascia, but if under the Integuments only, not very steady in its situation. The language of Portal evidently implies, that he too has re- marked tins high origin of the Superficial Volar branch. “ Cette Artere (l’Artere Radiale,) se detourne aussi quelque fo,s; au lieu de passer sur le Bord interne et Anterieure du Rayon, elle passe sur le Bord Anterieure exteme ; et il n’y a alors qu’une petite Arteriole qui marche dans la direction du Prone.” He adds, “Cesont des varietes sans doute, mais qu’il est d’autant moins inutile de eonnoitre, que e’est sur cette por- tion de l’Artere Radiale, que l’on tate le Pouls, et que e’est d’apres les connoissances acquises de cette maniere que l’on se dirige pour le diagnostic, le pronostic, et pour le traitement de la plupart des maladies : Mais est-ce settlement lorsqne VAr- tere Rad,ale se dilate, ou qu'elle est en diastole, qu’ellc frappe les doigls du medeem qui explore le Pouls; ou n'est-ce pas aussi e,i se depluqant dans sa tolalite par son movement de locomotion qu’elle agit sur eux ? C> est-ce qui r ’est pas par/aitement connu.”A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. lig H 3 dips with the Tendon of the Biceps under the Su- blimis, and terminates in the Ulnar and Interosseal. The Ulnar Artery, with several deflexions, runs ulnad and distad between the Sublimis, the Pro- fundus, and Flexor Ulnaris; on approaching the Car- pus, gradually becomes more superficial; under the Fascia, runs close by the Radial side of the Os Pisiforme; and from thence, beneath the Aponeu- rosis Palmaris, towards the Radial side of the Car- pus, when it generally forms a species of curve that is convex distad, and which has been named the Superficial Volar Arch. On the contrary, when the Humeral terminates in the Radial and Interosseal, the course of the Ul- nar is generally different; it rises high, runs super- ficially above the muscles, not unfrequently above the Fascia, and, on the fore-arm, somewhat nearer to the Radial aspect than when it lies deep. On approaching, however, the bones of the Carpus, it is generally found under the Fascia, running close by the Radial side of the Os Pisiforme, and if not forming a Super- ficial Volar Arch, at least, spreading into Volar branches beneath the Aponeurosis Palmaris. The character, therefore, of this Artery is, that whether it originate in the region of the Humerus, or of the fore-arm, whether its course be superficial or deep, it is always found on the Thcnal aspect,120 A description op the arterjes. running close by the Hadial side of ,he Os Pisi 0,-me, and spreading i„,„ branches ben Aponeurosis Palmaris (i). The Interosseal (i), by which , mKm ^ ^ nterosseal, for sometimes there are more Interos- <i) From an aea that the Ulnar artel7 milst „ „„ eTthl' 7”tor SUbli"i'- "lions' “ ’ , ’ m hlS 0p,n,0n’there two Ulnar Arteries • an Anomie ulnar, ru„„ing superficially beneath the ZLZ ents and forming the Superficial Volar Arch, and the true Ulna" Sma" at the Can>us. true terv of • " UFe to Say’ W3S thC Interos^al, the only Ar- WWch he C0UW find in that situation, he had been lookmg for the true Ulnar. « j»ai vu XrX t T r SeCOndeCMa'‘1"‘^-1olt4er. *uments, Ie long du bord interne de Pavant bras jusqu’au poignet, ou elle fournissoit Parcade Palma' dant que la vrale Cnhitate > * . rcade Palma>re, pen- petites.,» Sy ermmoit Par des branches ttes A£LMrhTr’ th3t th!S !S trU,y a *"«* from the Ulnar *<7, but, because it is so large, and because the Ulnar g.ves ,t ofrso soon, he takes the privilege of describing it apart as one of the three great branches of thd Humeral. See Note,’ P- 114 babatier, wbQ considers it as a regular branch of the pearLIery\,STherSUrP,'iSedthatitSOmetimes sh°“ld aP- pea, as a regular branch of the Humeral Artery. « Quelqul -s, an hen de se partager en deux branches, elle (1’Artere Humerale,) en donne trois, dont une va se continuer le long121 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. H 4 seals than one, whether it arise from the Humeral separately, or terminate the Humeral along with the Ulnar, or along with the Radial, or along with the Radial and Ulnar together, is always seen on the Thenal aspect in the middle, between the Radius and Ulna; always deeper than the Sublimis, always “ de l’avant bra6, sous le nom d’Interosseuse Interne.” He had seen the division mentioned in Note, page 103. Portal, although he describes it as a branch usually from the Ulnar Artery, acknowledges, that sometimes he had seen it rising from the Radial Artery, and sometimes from the Hu- meral. What he means by adding, that he sometimes had seen it arising even from the Trunk of the Ulnar Artery, is not easily conceived. “ L’Artere Cubitale, pr£s de sa sortie “ de la Brachiale, doune de son bord posterieure une grosse “ ArUrre, qui sort aussi quelquefois de l’extremite du tronc de “ PArtere Brachiale, ou meme de l’extremite supevieure de '• PArtere Radiale.—C’est PArtere Interosseuse Interne ; je l’ai “ vu sortir du tronc meme de la Cubitale.” I cite the following passage from Haller, for two reasons; first, to show that he had seen the Interosseal Artery extending- its ramifications to the fingers ; and, secondly, to prove, by a single example out of many that might be collected from hi* sixth Fasciculus, that he used the terms Itadial and Ulnar, to denote position, agreeably to the manner which I have proposed in my Nomenclature. “ Non penitus omittere “ visum est, mirificam varietatem, quam semc-l omniuo Anno “ 1345, M. Septembri vidi. ipsa fere origine Arterite In- " terossex Ramus prove nit, sodalis mediani nervi, inter Subli- “ metn-ot Profundum flexorem, quorum utrique dedit, venit- “ que cum ipsis, ad latus Iiadiale tnedii Digiti et Ulnare Indicis,A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. * Badiali nasci.”—Fascic. vi. p. 33. 152 extending some of its branches as far as the Carpus, though seldom so far as the points of the fingers. In rare cases, where it runs immediately under the Sublimis, and extends to the fingers, there is usually another Interosseal Artery, either a branch, or a separate Trunk, between the Sublimis and the Flexor Longus Pollicis; an Interosseal which sends off most of the branches that pass through the Liga- ment, though often one of the perforating branches, named the Superior Interosseal Perforant, arises It om the Humeral Artery, after passing the joint. t RECURRENT BRANCHES OF THE RADIAL, INTEROS- SEAL, HUMERAL, AND ULNAR ARTERIES. The first branches distad of the elbow, that are sent off from these three Arteries, are certain branches which are named Recurrents. It was for- merly observed, that one great difference between the ramifications of Plants, and the ramifications of Vascular Systems in the Animal kingdom, consisted U tledlt ramu,n pollicis abductor! inosculatum Radiali Arterial “ Pollicis et una cum ea Arteria Ulnarem Pollicis et Arteriam “ Radialem Volarem Indicis constituit. Semel etiam ex ipsa "origine Arterial InterosseJ* ramum prodijsse vidi, qui ad “ volam ven,t et supcrficialem arcum constituit, qui solet a123 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. h 5 in this, that the branches of the same Vascular System, when they are near, or when they are rami- fied on the same organ, are often observed to unite and separate, and to unite and separate again, form- ing a kind of Retiform textures that are called Plexuses. In these Plexuses many of the Ramuli are so minute, that, in their natural and healthy state, they convey only a transparent fluid, and are not to be discerned by the naked eye, unless when they happen to be filled with red blood, or with coloured injection, and then the parts on which they are observed, appear as if chiefly composed of vessels. When impediments, however, or any obstructions, partial or complete, chance to take place in the cir- culation of the larger vessels, from which they im- mediately or ultimately spring, the smaller branches, if they be necessary to preserve the circulation, are gradually enlarged, and their Anastomoses or inosculations soon grow conspicuous. Such en- largements, and such conspicuous inosculations, should naturally occur at the bend of the arm, where the circulation is apt to be impeded, in the larger vessels, from the frequent extensions and flexions of the joint. In most cases, we accord- ingly observe distinct and obvious inosculations between the branches of the Profunda and Anas- tomotic on one side, and certain recurrent branches from the Radial, the Interosseal, the common Trunk124 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTEfilES of the Ulnar and Interosseal, and from the Ulnar itself (/), on the other. These recurrents are to he seen on all the four aspects of the arm, the Radial, the Ulnar, the Thenal, and Anconal, though, from the varieties in the division of the Humeral Artery, they are subject to changes in size, origin, distribu- tion, and number; unsteady as they happen to be in these respects. Anatomists generally de- scribe them with minuteness, on account of the con- fidence which they give to Surgeons in performing the operation for Aneurism near the bend of the arm. And yet Surgeons should know, as many of them do know, that the numerous small inosculating Ramuli, ape in every part ready to enlarge, to be! come conspicuous, and, if proper time be allowed for the change, to continue the circulation cf the blood, when the circulation in the Trunk of the Artery' or in its larger communicating branches, happens to be much impeded or obstructed. It implies, therefore, nearly as great an ignorance of the structure, to re- pose implicitly the whole of our confidence on these conspicuous inosculating branches, as it would to (/) If the Ulnar crosses the joint superficially, it has no recurrents running upon the Anconal aspect, nor are those on the Thenal very conspicuous, from its circulation, in that case, being less impeded by the motions of the Joint. Portal, speak- ing of its recurrents, observes therefore, “ Le nombre n’est ‘‘ pas bien fixe.”A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 12o H 6 place it chiefly or entirely on the high divisions of the Humeral Artery (m).. In any case, should it be thought that the small lateral communicating branches are not, at the time, sufficiently large to convey the necessary supply of blood, after the Trunk of the Artery is tied, they may, preparatory to the operation, be gradually enlarged by the pre- vious and gradual compression of the Trunk, forcing the blood into lateral channels, and gradually en- larging their communications (n). THE BRANCHES OF THE RADIAL, ULNAR, AND INTER- OSSEAL ARTERIES, UPON THE FORE-ARM. These branches are so very irregular in situation, size, number, and distribution, that very few of them (m) Sharp did not trust entirely to the high division of the Humeral Artery. His expression is, “ If the Humeral Artery “ happens to divide above the elbow, which is not very uncom- “ non, the prospect of cure is better, and the pulse will be “ stronger after the operation.”—Treatise on the Operations of Surgery, ch. xxxvi. (n) “ II paroit demontre,” says Portal, “ que des compressions “ douces antecedentes peuvent determiner le sang it fluer dans “ les vaisseaux eollateraux, et les dilater graduellement. On “ & tire, dans ces demiers temps, un grand avantage des com- “ pressions dans le traitment des Aneurismes.”—Portal de V Artere Brachiale.326 A description of the arteries have obtained names, and are of so very fade, finite a eharacler, that they hardly are entitled to definite appellations. In strict propriety, there- ore, it can only be observed in'general, that the iadial. Ulnar, and Interosseal Arteries, as they are advancing towards the Carpus, not only supply the different parts on the Thenal aspect, but also send branches to the different parts upon the Ancmudj the Radial Artery sending branches round by the tadml aspect, the Ulnar, round by the Ulnar aspect and the Interosseal, or Interosseals, through passages in the Interosseous Ligament. ramifications of the radial, ulnar, and inter. OSSEAL ARTERIES, ON THE CARPUS AND FINGERS. The varieties of Arterial ramification, particular- ly on the Volar aspect of the Carpus, are more numerous than on any other part throughout the whole Atlantal extremity; the great number of voluntary motions, and the great variety of arts and employments in which the hand is so frequently occupied, naturally producing in those parts, not only varied but extensive motions. Upon the Anconal aspect of the Carpus, such va- lieties are less conspicuous, and less numerous, theA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 127 parts there being less copiously supplied with blood, and less exposed to those partial, but not unfrequent interruptions of function that arise from pressure; an exemption from pressure, which, though only comparative, may not improbably be one of the rea- sons that most of the larger Subcutaneous veins returning the blood from the Digital Arteries, return it by the Anconal aspect. With respect to the- Arteries that are named Digital, though unsteady in their origin, they are generally regular as to their course, as well as to the place and mode in which they terminate; being very limited in their lateral range, they are always to be found running on the Radial and Ulnar sides of the Flexor Tendons, and regularly occupying that very space, where they are least exposed to the ac- cidents that might have a tendency to injure their structure, or impede their functions. RAMIFICATIONS ON THE VOLAR ASPECT OF THE CAR- PUS AND METACARPUS. Without descending to any unnecessary or mi- nute detail, concerning these. ramifications as they occur in different individuals, I shall mention only the several classes, under which, I think, their ge- neral distribution may naturally be arranged.A description OF the arteries. 12$ In one class, the Ulnar Artery, pacing the side of the Pisiform bone, turns radiad under the Apo- neurosis Palmaris, and forms a curve that is convex dM; from the convexity of this curve, a number oi \ olar branches proceed, which Volar branches, i unning as far as the Distal extremity of the Meta- carpus, are seen continued, or are seen dividing into Digital branches, supplying the Thumb and the dif- ferent fingers. Of these Volar branches, it may also be ob- served, once and for all, that whenever they run towards an interstice, between two fingers, they generally divide into two branches, a Digito-Radial ninmng on the finger that is situated ulnad, and a Digito-Ulnar running on the finger that is situated radiad. In a second class, a Thenal branch (o) from the ad.al Artery, running most commonly above the Transverse Ligament of the Carpus, though some- times undei it, meets and inosculates with the Uinar C°) This is the superficial Volar branch of the Radial Artery underthe L imP1'°Perly °alled S0> " * n,DS —ionally’ under th Ligament. It sometimes rises near the bend of the ’ nd ‘S 38 larSe as the Radial itself, at other times it is as ,,0t t0 Cxtend bey°nd the transverse Ligament where the'rad' ia 0"S'n’ Senera'’ " "0t far frora the i,lace re the Rad.al Artery is reflected anconad.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 129 Artery beneath the Aponeurosis Palmaris, and com- pletes the arch from which these Volar branches originate. In a third class, the Ulnar Artery turns but a little to the Radial aspect, under the Aponeurosis Palmaris, where the Thenal branch, from the Radial Artery, inosculates with it, and forms an a,rch, from which is derived only a part of these Volar Arteries, the place of the rest being supplied by a branch or branches from the Radial Artery, as it is passing from the Anconal to the Thenal aspect. In a fourth class, the Ulnar Artery, without any Thenal branch from the Radial, sends off a part of the Volar branches, while a branch, or branches, from the Radial Artery, as it is passing from the Anconal to the Thenal aspect, supplies the deficiency. In a fifth class, the Great Interosseal, descending under the Ligament of the Carpus, is observed to give off Volar branches that, in other cases, are oc- casionally supplied by those branches of the Radial Artery, which it gives off, as it is passing from the Anconal to the Thenal aspect. In a sixth class, the Radial, Ulnar, and Interosseal Arteries, inosculate freely beneath the Aponeurosis Palmaris, and, after uniting, send off the different Volar branches. In a seventh class, of which I have only seen one specimen, that belongs to Dr. Monro, jun. and of130 A description op the arteries. Which the Doctor very obligingly sent me notice, inviting me to see it, the Ulnar terminates in small branches beneath the Aponeurosis Palmaris, while these Volar Arteries are furnished by the Radial, and chiefly by the part that is seen constituting the deep Volar arch (p). In the third and fourth classes, where the Badia) Artery suppl.es the deficiency of Volar branches from the Ulnar Artery, it generally does it in one or other of the following ways: By sending off from its fhcnal branch the Digilo-Raiial of the Thumb ■ or y sending off, as it,passes from the Anconal ,o the Tlienal aspect, the Digilo-Ulnar of the Thumb or a branch that afterwards divides into the fli* Ulnar of the Thumb, and the of the fore-finger (?), or sometimes iMo ^ tn tgilals of the Thumb, and the Digilo-Radial ot the fore-finger (j) ; or by sending off in addition to the (P) Something analogous had been seen by Haller who of tue brroches which hedenominatestheInterossete VolarTrean,DS I11' branCheS thatrun^W from the deep “ nrim *■ 7^’ “ Allquando adeo magnse sunt, ut Digitales ^^7^rramqae ta~™— (?) This is the branch so liable +„ • • , , j , ^ ^ be iniursd bv a wound or tlelp finSe‘‘ 3nd thG Thumb*«d which, from its S.W I Pr°f the Hemorrhagy, may often, by those’ for the P T I T °f Anat0my is not very accurate, be taken for the Radial Artery itself.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 151 last, a branch which, running obliquely across the Metacarpal bone of the Index, divides afterwards into the Digito-Ulnar of the fore-finger, and the Digito-Radial of the middle finger; or sometimes into the two Digitals of the fore-finger, and the Digito-Radial of the middle finger ; or, lastly, after forming its arch, and anastomosing with the Ulnar Arteiy, by sending off, in farther addition to these branches, the Digito-Ulnar of the little finger, and a Volar branch that afterwards divides into the Digito-Radial of the little finger, and the Digito- Ulnar of the ring finger (r). As for the branch that is usually considered as ter- minating the Trunk of the Radial Artery, and which running ulnad across the Metacarpus, forms what is called the Deep Volar Arch, it is of different re- lative magnitudes in different individuals, in propor- tion to the number of Digital branches that are pre- viously sent off. As it generally inosculates directly or indirectly with a branch or branches from the Ulnar Artery, it is found to be larger where tlie Ulnar branch meets it directly, and contributes to the formation of the arch, than where the communi- cating branch from the Ulnar inosculates only with (r) This last distribution I have not seen, but I give it authenticated by the indubitable authority of Haller.—See Faicic. iii. p. 43. and Fascic. vi. Tab. ii.fg. 7.132 A DESCRIPTION OK the arteries. some of its brandies, or inosculates with other branches of the Radial, before the arch has begun to be formed (,). According to Haller, Verheyen was the first who described this branch, and the first who favoured the Public with a figure of it. Since that period, all Anatomists who have written on the Arteries, have, so far as I know, regularly mentioned it, though many with such uniformity m description, that one would be almost tempted to e ieve, that they had described it with little varia- tion from the same individual, or the same figure. illustrious Haller, who was well acquainted with several varieties which it not unfrequently exhibits in the species, has, after mentioning a number of those that were seen by others, given a detail of all UlL} 7 ,S °ften seen inosculating with the n r Artery, by its Thenal branch that joins the superficial o ar arch; iS often seen inosculating with the Ulnar Arterv through the Digital branches that run to the Thumb, and the fore-finger, or through the medium of that stem from which these branches derive their origin ■, it is also seen inosculating t7T y-T th: U1Uar ^ near to the Ulnar aspect of he Vola, either directly through the medium of its arch, or uough the branches proceeding from its arch. The Ulnar rtery, ,n these cases, also inoseulates through the medium ranches. These inosculations are independent of those numerous small inosculations, which are less obvious to the na ed eye, and which generally admit of a much wider range of variety, than those which are more conspicuous and large.133 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. the varieties which it happened to present in no fewer than six subjects, adding besides, elegant figures representing the differences of Arterial ves- sels, as occurring in the Vola of four individuals. Three of these figures to be found in his sixth, and the fourth to be found in his eighth Fasciculus. Without entering into any description, unneces- sarily minute, I shall only remark, that we cannot always observe the appearance of a regular and dis- tinct deep Volar arch, more than of a regular and distinct arch immediately under the Aponeurosis. In those cases, where the deep one appears, com- paratively speaking, to be well formed, it is some- times formed by the Radial Artery, without a com- municating Ulnar branch ; the communicating Ul- nar, in that case, inosculating only with some of its branches. At other times, the Radial Artery extends only a part of the way across the Metacai'pus, when it meets the communicating branch from the Ulnar, and when both appear to assist equally in constitut- ing the arch. This seems to be the form under which it was principally observed by Verheyen. At other times, the communicating branch from the Ulnar is so large, that it forms the greatest part of the arch, and is seen inosculating with the Radial Portion, near the Metacarpal bone of the Index. In this case, the diameter of the Trunk forming134 A description of the arteries. onhTtiSgenm"y 'arBrat 10 the ul"ar“P“‘ But in what way soever this Vohr arch happens ° e ormed, it regularly sends, from its convex aspect, towards the fingers, a number of branches (t), Hat, after spreading upon the Volar aspect of the muscles called Interossci and Lumbricales, form common,cations with the Digital branches, where he Digitals arise, or where they are continued from the Volar branches; branches („) also that com. mumcate (a) with those that run along the Anconal poet of the Interossei, and which Anconals also inosculate with the Digital bnmehes, a, the Distal mrenuty of the Metacarpus. From its concave aspect, it sends branches {,„) that, running proxi- W, inosculate with Interosseal blanches upon the Thenal aspect of the Carpus,- and some other lanches (a), that perforating the Interosseous nms- (/) Arterial Interossca Volares of Haller. («) The Ramuli forming these communications, are the Perforates Volares Inferiors of Haller. (v>) The Interossea Dorsa/es of Haller. (») The lietrogruda of Haller. reckols^hre^/0r“”r S’*erkr” of HalIe^ of which he tween the fo n ^ * that °f the interstices be* Ur SSA MetacarPi belonging to the fingers. “ per-A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 1S5 cles, join the Anconal branches of the hand, at the Proximal extremity of the Metacarpus. RAMIFICATIONS ON THE ANCONAL ASPECT OF THE CARPUS AND METACARPUS. As the Ulnar Artery is the principal Trunk that generally appears on the Volar aspect, so the Radial Artery, though it frequently sends off a number of the larger Volar branches, is always the largest “ forantem Superiorem Unieam notam fuisse Winslowo ad- “ paret, inter minimi Digiti Os Metacarpi et proximum, n. 154. “ Rameau, qui se glisse entre le iroisieme et quatrieme Os du “ Metacarpi. Primum tres esse inveni et constitui Januario “ mense, a 1745,” Haller, Fascic. vi. p. 46.—Haller has de- scribed, with uncommon minuteness, these different branches of the deep Volar arch, although he has certainly rendered his description unnecessarily confused, in trying to distinguish its Ramuli by names, and in attempting to characterise them by these epithets, Interosseal and Perforant, the very epithets which he previously had bestowed on some other branches, not only iu the immediate vicinity, hut which even inosculate with some of the Ramuli from the deep arch. It is not un- likely, that, in such a description, he wished to show, that even Winkler could be surpassed. “ Adolphus Bernhardus “ Winkler noster olim discipulus et in Theatro Gottingensi “ Prosector, certe egregiam, ea aetate imprimis, Arteriae Bra- “ chii descriptionem dedit, qua Perforantes superiores, Retro-136 A description of the arteries. Arterial Trunk that appears on the Anconal. It invariably runs ulnad on this aspect, as far as the Metacarpal bone of the fore-finger, and often sends onward a considerable branch that turns and runs distcid, between the Metacarpal bone of the fore and the middle finger. From the Trunk, in this course, “ °radas’ Arcum Vote profund urn, Ramos Volares Interosseos, “ Nutritias Uln* Radiique, circumflexas Humeri, et alia rec- tius proposuit, et nostris laboribus usus et suis.” “ Eut, “ Ego,” says Haller, “ Ego Minutos rerum fines fere ubique " adjeci, et perforantes superiores, inferiores, Interosseas Dor- " sales>.Interosseas Media?, et alia quae minus decet " rePet"sse-”—Pref. ad. Fascia, vi. By tracing the Minutos rerum fines, lie was led to perceive the obvious communi- cations between the branches, upon the Anconal and the Volar aspects ; and the observation that he makes respecting them is certainly just. It is only singular, that lie should hare confined to the hand, a remark, which, in general language, might have been extended to the whole system. It is now well known, that inosculations, similar in their object, though differ- ing often in mode and degree, occur in every part of the struc- ture j the circulation in every part being equally free, proper- tied to the demands of the organs j and interruptions equally prevented by various textures of communicating branches As to the difference of relative magnitude in these branches, that often is a matter of less importance than their difference in number, and the difference of the mode in which they commu- nicate. It must be evident, that in what way soever a Vascu- lar Plexus happens to be formed, its communicating branches will fall to be necessarily larger or less, proportioned to the quantity of blood required, and proportioned to the frequency137 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. are sent branches to the Anconal aspect of the Thumb, and to the Anconal aspect of the interstice, between the Metacarpal bone of the Thumb and the fore-finger, while from the branch there is sent a supply to the Anconal aspect of the interstice, be- tween the Metacarpal bone of the fore and the middle finger. Besides these Anconal branches, however, the Radial Artery sends off more, and often a branch that runs ulnad across the Carpus, and which, meeting with a branch of the Ulnar Artery, forms an Ancuno-carpal Arch. This arch inosculates with several branches of Anconal Interosseals that descend to the Carpus; it inosculates sometimes with the perforating branches of the deep Volar arch that run proximad; it sends off, from its Distal aspect, branches that run along the Interossei, oc- cupying the three intermediate spaces between the Ossa Metacarpi of the fingers. These last branches, in their progress distcul, inosculate laterally with one another; inosculate, at the Proximal extremity of the Metacarpus, with the Volar perforants that of partial obstructions in the larger vessels, from which the branches derive their orgin. The observation which should have been extended, is in these words : “ Exigui errores non “ turbant hune primarium et pulcherritnum Ordinem, quo “ unique .'anguis, a dorso Manus ad Volam, a Vola ad dorsum “ Communicat, et omnis intercoptio in Commeatu Sanguinis “ cavetur.”—Fascic. vi. p. 46.138 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. run proximad ; and, at the farther extremity of the Metacarpus, with the Digital branches, and the Volar perforants that run distad. If there be no Anconal arch, there is still, however, a Plexus of vessels formed by branches from the Radial, Ulnar, and Interosseal Arteries; branches, connected with this Plexus, that run along the Anconal aspect of the Interossei, and that, at the commencement of the Metacarpus, inosculate with the perforants that run proxijncid, and, at its termination, with the Digital Arteries, and the perforating branches that run distad. RAMIFICATIONS ON THE FINGERS AND THUMB. Each finger has two Digital Arteries on its Thenal aspect, a Digito-Radial on the Radial side, and a Digiio-Ulnur on the Ulnar side of its Flexor Ten- dons. Their origin, as has been already observed, is different often in different individuals, but their course and termination is generally steady. As they advance to the Distal Phalanx, they are seen inoscu- lating by transverse branches on the Volar aspect, and by smaller branches reflected round upon the Anconal. Having reached as far as the Distal Phalanx, and passed beyond the insertion of the Tendon, they are observed gradually converging, un-A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 1 til they inosculate, and form an arch. This arch is named the Digito-Vo ar, and sends off, from its convex aspect, a great number of small branches towards the Cutis, where the sense of Touch is the most exquisite. Near to the place where the Trunks converge, two of their branches, running anconad, also inosculate, and form an arch on the opposite aspect. This is the Digit*.Anconal arch., which sends off, from its convex aspect, a number of blanches that form a Plexus under the nails. The mode of ramification on the Thumb, is similar to that which is found on the fingers, though, in general, the Anconal branches be larger, and the Digito-Radial less uniform than that belong,ng to any of the fingers. This Digito-Radial, arising sometimes from a Volar branch of the Ulnar Arterv sometimes from the TbenaJ branch of the Radial' sometimes from that branch of the Radial that fur' nishes, also, the Digilo-Ufoar; sometimes, tho| h rely, from the Interosseal; and sometimes want- mg, when it usually happens that the duty is net. ormed by ramifications from the Digito.Ulnar, or the neighbouring Thena! and Anconal branches ha, spring from the Radial.■ . •;? !• j, w. ■ , • - ; \ ; rtrfeiiw -0‘i .< .-.I . 1 !, -1. . ;b- ■ ■ W .... • ... _ ■ . > 'Sy' ; * . V . i«wvi 2 BRANCHES FROM THE STRAIGHT THORACIC PORTION OF THE AORTA. The Trunk of the Aorta, having sent the requisite supply of blood to the Heart and Head, the Neck, and the two Atlantal Extremities, to the Ster- num, Cartilages, and the Intercostal muscles at- tached to them, to a part of the Pericardium, Dia- phragm, and Abdominal muscles, and to some of the first Intercostal spaces, begins to lay aside the form of a curve, to approach the sides of the Dorsal Ver- tebrae, and then to proceed in a straight line towards the Diaphragm. In this course, it bends sacrad on the left of the (Esophagus, runs dorsad of the left division of the Trachea, and, when it has reachedA bESCWPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 142 the Dorsal Vertebrae, lies on the left of the Mesial- Plane, with a gradual inclination towards the right. The additional branches which it now sends off, are those which supply all the remaining parts of the Thorax, and which generally originate, either di- rectly, or indirectly, in the space interposed between the left Subclavian Artery, and that passage where the Aorta entering the Abdomen, exchanges the title Thoracic Aorta for that of Abdominal or Ven- tral Aorta. These branches are the Bronchial Arteries, the CEsophageals, and what have been termed the Aortic Intercostals. ARTE RLE BR0NCHIALE5. These Arteries derive their name from accom- panying the Bronchi, or the ramifications of the Trachea, through the substance of the Lungs. They admit of no definite description as to their size, number, or origin; they are generally small, and from two to five in number; the number being always uneven when a common trunk is distri- buted to the right and the left side. When they spring directly from the Aorta, those which cross the Mesial Plane to be ramified on the Dextral Bronchi and Glands, are necessarily longer than those which are ramified towards the left. I haveA ® ASCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 143 I 8 never seen the case mentioned by Portal (a), where they all spring from a common trunk. If Lieutaud, and some others, following the ancients, have hap- pened to restrict the epithet Bronchial to one Artery, which they call by way of eminence the Bronchial, it has never been in consequence of minute and ac- curate investigation. They had seen it, and supposed that no other Bronchia! Artery existed, or that no other Artery, proceeding from the Aorta to the (a) “ Les Artferes Bronehiques sortent ordinairement de la “ face \uteneure de l’Aorte, au dessous de laBronche gauche, " loutes ensemule ou separement.” The following passage from Haller might, at first sight, seem to favour the opinion, that all the Brouchials originate occasionally by a common Trunk. “ Valde frequens est, utrumque Pulmonein habere “ ab eodem Truuco Arterioso ramos suos, quod Veteribus con- “ tigisse videtur, uam ex Aorta provenientem et unam, fere “ communi consensu describunt.”—Fascic. iti. p. 35. It is evident, however, from the preceding sentence, that Haller here is not describing a Trunk common to all the Bronchials, but merely the Bronchialis Communis; the Bronchial that rises without a fellow, and is afterwards distributed on the right and left Bronchi. The sentence immediately preceding is,' “ Ut ordine historiam istam tradamus, tenendum est, “ Arterias Bronchiales esse dextras, sinistras, communes, et “ vel omnes in uno subjecto vel aliquas adesse. A communi " initium faciam. Bis communes duas vidi, quarum utraque " in uno corpore ex Aorta, in altero, una ex Aorta, altera ex “ Intercostali venit Hi casus fuerunt inter viginti quuique “ corpora.”—Ibid. p. 36.A description of the AirrfiniEs. ts) Fascie, iii. p. 34. N. 6. Lungs, was of note sufficient to be dignified with the title. Their Bronchial Artery seems to be the Trunk that rises single from the Aorta, or a neigh- bouring Intercostal, and afterwards divides into two branches, a right and a left; in short, the Bron- chialis Commmis of Haller, or the Bronchiale An- terieure of Winslow. Ihe most Atlantal of the Bronchial branches be- ing also ramified on the Pericardium, the coats of the Aorta, Pulmonic Artery, and Incumbent Glands, PLtllei is doubtful whether he should call them Bronchial Arteries, or the Superior and Posterior Pericardiac (6) ; when they rise in pairs, the right and the left have not unfrequently a different kind of origin. Haller has seen the right branch deriving its origin from the Sternal or Internal Mammary, from the common Trunk of the Subcla- vian and Carotid, from the Subclavian, from the fiist Intercostal, from the Sacrothyroid, from the Arch of the Aorta on its concave side, opposite to the large branches from the convex, and though ge- nerally to the left of the large branches, yet, in rare cases, sometimes before them towards the right. He has seen the left rising immediately from the Sub- clavian ; sometimes before, and sometimes after the Vertebral Artery; sometimes after the Sternal Ar-A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 145 I 4 tery; sometimes from the Sternal Artery itself; sometimes from the Trunk of the Aorta, at the junction of the Ductus Arteriosus ; sometimes from the first Aortic Intercostal; sometimes from the first and second; sometimes ramified upon the Vertebrae; sometimes inosculating with the Inter- costals; and sometimes sending off’ a Thymic branch, and the branch that accompanies the Phrenic nerve. The other Bronchials, when they rise not directly from the Aorta, but from neighbouring Arteries, as the Intercostals, or by common Trunks with (Eso- phageals (c), have more frequently this secondary origin on the right side than upon the left, a cir- cumstance that is very easily explained from the situation of the Aorta lying sinistrad of the Mesial Plane. It is proved by injections, and is generally know n, that the Bronchial Arteries inosculate with branches from the Pulmonic; and these inosculations are thought singular, as the blood that passes from the Bronchial vessels into the Pulmonic, must return by (c) When the Bronchials chance to have a common origin with the Intercostals, or CEsophageals, the larger division is considered as the Trunk, and the smaller as the branch. Hence some Anatomists speak of CEsophageals arising from Bronchials, and others, as Winslow, of Bronchials arising from CEsophageals.145 A DESCRIPTION OF the arteries. >C Systemic Veins, Auricle, and Ventricle into the Aorta, without taking a circuitous course through the 1 uimonic Auricle and Ventricle, the Pulmonic Veins, or Pulmonic Artery. The course, however “ S°, Sh°rt 3S that which » assigned to a part of c blood m the Cardiac Arteries, which is made to murn into the Aorta without entering the Systemic v eins, or Systemic Auricle (d). SZP*Se r See also Adami Christian! Tbebesii, Du. ; / * Chcul° Sane'“™ * CWk This disserta- ton of which a second edition was published at Leyden in Octavo pagei In it he informs us, that vy BU"'CCdt‘J 10 ,n(lathlg m Vt'nir,2*e from the Coronaly \ cm.,. « Ut ncc unqnam frustra cor aperuerhn am a so succeeded with different injections, adding, “ Liquores „ ’ Gluten S0lutum’ 'Psaq“e cera, apta manu, ramis M VenarUm maj0ribuS immissa> venarum aperturas et in utra- f4 q"e A"nCUla Ct in ambob“* cordis thalamis dare demon- strant He acknowledges that something similar had been o iserve y Frederick Ruysch, m his answer to Letter X j and strongly suspects that these are the vessels which had been inisto&eii by Vieussenius, for branches of the Cardiac or Co- rouary Arteries. Hum haec eonscribo, affertur Epistola Cl. “ Vitussens ad Cel. Boudinum scripta, qua; tituium fert • “ Nouvelles decouples Sur le coeur,- in qua Anatomicus excel- " kntlSSimUS lnuita Protulit experimenta, quibus sententiam “ Carton confirmare laborat: Secemi ncmpe aliquod fermeu- " tUm Per Arterias Coronariaj3 in sinus cordis, a quo ejus “diastole sit derivanda. Huic simile qu.d assent Broen pera. Med. Theor. § 31. alaique. feed vidcntur renulse147 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. The Bronchial Arteries are mentioned in a vague and general manner by Erasistratus and Galen. “ They are mentioned also,” says Haller, “ by “ Rhazes and Avicenna, and by other Anatomists, t( down to the time of Realdus Columbus, who,” he says, " was the first that denied their existence." The fact with respect to Columbus, is this: It oc- CI iliac modo deseriptae tam multis egregiis viris imposuisse, ut “ Arteriae Coronariae propagines, illas crediderint et inde liqui- “ duin illud ferrnentans secemi asseruerint.” Mr Abernethy of Bartholomew's Hospital, made a coarse injection whether, into the Veins or Arteries, pass through these Venulae Thebesii, which he denominates the Foramina Thebesii. In the healthy state, they are often so small as not to admit the coarse in- jection ; but greatly enlarged after pulmonary consumption, where there bad been a degree of obstruction to the circula- tion of blood in the Lungs. According to him, their enlarge- ment is calculated to prevent the distension of the Cardiac vessels \ and he supposes the Foramen Ovale to be frequently re-opened for a similar purpose. Upon examining the hearts of those who died of consumption, I have generally perceived a slight communication between the two Auricles, near the upper or atlantal margin of the Vestigium Forammis (Jvalis. Mr. Abemethy’s idea is new, that this is an effect, not a cause of consumption, and his idea is partly confirmed, at least corroborated, by what he observed respecting these Foramina Thebesii. Yet the two cases are not parallel throughout, the Foramina Thebesii, being only enlarged, while the pas- sage through the septum of the two Auricles is formed anew.— See Philosophical Transact. Part. J. for 1798.A RESCITIFTION OF THE ARTERIES. 148 curred to him,, when treating of the Lungs (e), that the blood, which had been generally supposed to have received its vitality in the Heart, and to have re- turned in Veins and Arteries from branches to Trunks for that very purpose, rather received this (?) “ Pulmo gignitur ut recte Anatomici scribunt, ob “ cordis refrigerationem: quod efficit, aerem ad illud frigidum ‘ deferens. Factus praeterea fuit Pulmo ad inspiratiouem, “ at9ue expirationem, et ut voci deserviat. Atque hos omnes “ Pulmonis usus noverunt, qui ante me scripsere. prater quos “ Ego ahum addo maximi momenti, de quo ne per transennam “ quidem meminere. Est autem praparatio, et pene generatio “ vitalium spirituum, qui postmodum in corde magis perfi- “ ciuntur. Aerem namque per nares et os inspiratum sus- “ cipit: nam asperae Arteriae vehiculo per universum Pul- moncin fertur, Pulmo vero aerem ilium una cum eo sanguine miscet, qui a dextro cordis Ventriculo profectus per Ar- “ terialem venam deducitur. Vena enim bsec Arterialis pra- “ terquain quod sanguinem pro sui alimento defert: Adeo “ ampla est, ut alius usus gratia deferre possit. Sanguis “ hujusmodi ob assiduum Pulmonum motum agitatur, tenuis “ redditur, et una cum acre miscetur, qui et ipse in hac col- “ bsione, refractioneque praparatur : ut siinul mixti sanguis et aer per ArtericE Venalis ramos suscipiantur: tandemque “per ipsius truncum ad sinistrum cordis Ventriculum de- “ferantur: deferuntur vero tarn belle mixti, atque attenuati, “ ut rordi exiguus praterea labor supersit: post quarn exiguam “ elaborationem, quasi extrema posita Mann vitalibus hisce “ spiritubus, reliqumn est, ut illos ope Arterial Aortae per “ omnes corporis partes distribuat. Non vereor quin novut “ hie 1 ulmonum usus quern nemo Anatoinieorum hactenusA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 149 i 6 vitality in the Lungs; and that, therefore, the blood of the Vena Arterialis, or Pulmonic Artery, instead of returning to the right Ventricle, flowed through the Atieria Venalis, or Systemic Veins, and the left Ventricle to the Aorta. As this idea of the vital blood being generated in the Lungs had never occurred, as he imagined, to any Anatomist before his time, he seems anxious to establish its truth against the sceptical Aristotelians (f), to whom, he was certain, it would appear para- doxical and absurd. One of the arguments, there- fore, which he brings in support of the hypothesis, for with him it was nothing but an hypothesis, is, that if vital blood, or the blood that pulsates, be not generated in the Lungs, where it mixes with the air, and is sent from the Arteries into the Veins “ somniavit, incredulis, atque Aristotelicis paradoxon videri “ debeat, quos oro rogoque, lit Pulmonis magnitudinem con- “ templentur qua: absque vitali sanguine permanere non po- “ terat: Cum nulia sit tarn minima corporis particula, quas “ illo destituatur. Quod si vitalis hie sanguis in Pulmonibus “ non gignitur : a qua parte transmitti poteratj praeterquam “ ab Aorta Arteria ? At ab Aorta Arteria ramus nullus, ueque “ magnus neque parvulus ad Pulmones mittitur.”—Lib. xi. cap. 2. De Re Anatomies. (f) Aristotle thought that the blood flowed backwards and forwards in the same channels, like the tides of the Euripus between Attica and Euboea.I / A DESCRIPTION OF TIIE ARTERIES. to be perfected in the left, or Systemic, Ventricle, it can be generated no where else, as the Aorta, in his opinion, has no communication whatever with the Lungs by Arterial vessels, either great or small. This reasoning of Columbus, in which the lesser circulation of the blood is rather supposed than de- monstrated, would have naturally prepossessed him against the idea of Bronchial Arteries, if he ever had heard that such Arteries existed. But he seems to have never heard of such vessels, and ventures his assertion without the suspicion of being contra- dicted, or of differing in opinion from any one of his predecessors. Laurentius, Spigelius, and several others, were as ignorant of these Arteries as he; so that Frederick Ruyscb, who was less of a learned than practical Anatomist, when he first saw a Bronchial Artery, boldly asserted, that he was the first who had ever observed one (g). His rivals and enemies, to mortify his pride, and silence his boasting, lost no time in making him acquainted with what had been said of Bronchial Arteries by Era- sistratus, Galen, and Marchettis. His friend however, John Henry Graetz, (k) was not less prompt, or less (g) “ Hanc Arteriam a nemine adhuc observatam esse, in- trep.de affirmo.” -Observnt. Anatomica xv- vol. I. (A) I'-pist. Anatomic. Problematica sexta. ad Fred. Ruys- chium.151 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. zealous, in making a reply : He cites the passages from Erasistratus and Galen at full length; shows that their meaning is obscure and enigmatical; that Marchcttis talks only, in a general way, of two or three Arteries that spring from the Aorta to be ramified on the Lungs; and that his friend Ruysch was the first Anatomist who had accurately examined, traced, and described one. I regret that Haller should have overlooked these reasonings of Graetz; and that, in depriving Frederick Ruysch of the honour of discovery, he should also have withheld from him that credit to which he was certainly justly entitled, the credit of being the first writer who gave an authentic and accurate description of a Bronchial Artery (i). («) Ruysch’s description of the Bronchial Artery, is as fol- lows : “Hanc, Arteriam Bronchiaeem nominare visum fuit; “ supra Bronchia enitn serpens ea concomitatur ad finem “ usque. Ortum sumit ab Arteriee raagnse descendentis pos- “ tiea parte, digiti latitudine, plus minus, supra Supremas “ Arteriarum Intercostalium, ex Aorta descendenti exortarum, “ aliquando etiam duorum digitorum latitudine Supra Ar- “ terias modo dictas; nonnunquam etiam infra eas originem “ habere comperio : placet enim naturae aliquando varietate “ frui. Nunc unica exsurgit, nunc gemina, ita ut saepius, “ Arteria Magnl Cadavere exempta, Intercostalibus et Bron- “ chialibus abscissis, trunculi Bronchialium remanentes, ex- “ ortum Intercostalium mentiantur.”—Ruyschii Oper. Tom. 1. Obseroat. Anal, xo.A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. 152 From the time that Ruysch saw this Bron- chial vessel, he supposed it was intended for nou- rishing the Lungs, the Bronchial Tubes, and the Bronchial Glands; the Pulmonic Artery, in his opinion now, being chiefly destined to transmit blood for the sake of undergoing a change by re- spiration (k). Advancing this opinion, he does not appear to have recollected that the blood, while flowing in the last branches of the Pulmonic Ar- tery, and before it enters the Systemic Veins, must G) “ Hanc Arteriam Bronchialem maximi faciendam esse “ existimo, non quidem ratione quantitatis, sed qualitatis “ sanguinis. Sanguinem enim sinistrum Cordis Thalamum “ transgressum, nobiliorem esse, dextri Ventriculi sanguine, “ quis negaturus ? Existimo itaque, ut finem imponam, hanc “ Artcriam esse conditam, ut Pulmonibus sanguinem nobi- “ liorem, perfectiorem, imo magis exaltatum, communicaret” —Ruyschii Opera, ibid. In 1659, about thirty years from the time that he first saw the Bronchial Artery, Ruysch mentions, in a letter to Graetz, that he had observed considerable variety with respect to its origin; that he had seen it not only arising from the A rta, but Superior Intercostal and the third Inter- costal ; and that he had filled its ramifications by injecting wax from the Pulmonic Artery, though he never had attempted to inject the Pulmonic Arteries from the Bronchial. « Repleta “ Arteria Pu,raonali Ceracea Materia, illico quoque repleti “ conspiciuntur ramuli Arteries Bronchialis ; nullusque dubito, “ quin 1,oc vice versa q«oq«e fiat, quamvis id nunqnam “ tentarim."—Ruyschii Opera, sol. 2. Epistola Problematic >sexta. p. 10.153 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. be blood of the same, or very nearly of the same quality as that which flows in the Aorta, and is afterwards distributed through the medium of its branches to the system at large. In animals with but one Auricle and Ventricle, branches proceeding from the Aorta are the only Arteries that are ramified upon the organs of breath- ing ; so that vessels, analogous to the Bronchial Ar- teries, are more general in the Animal Kingdom, than even a Pulmonic Artery itself. ARTERI.E (ESOPIIAGE/E. Strictly speaking, CEsophageal Arteries ought to include all those Arterial branches that are rami- fied on the Portion of the Alimentary canal, termed (Esophagus, and which extends from the Pharynx to the Stomach. In the region of the Neck, this Por- tion receives branches from the Sacrothyroid, from other branches of the Subclavian, and from the Subclavian Artery itself, though generally branches without a name. The Arteries here called (Eso- phageal, are those which, originating in the cavity of the Thorax, are afterwards wholly, or principally, ramified on that Portion of the (Esophagus that ex- tends from the first rib to the Cardia. Like the Bronchial Arteries, they are indefinite as to their size, number, and origin ; but larger in size when(0 See page 74. / 154 A description op the arteries. t ley are few, and more in number when they are small; the number is usually from two to five. ley rise from the Aorta, or by common trunks mth ,1,0 Bronchial Arteries, or the Intercostal,, and often extend their ramifications to the parts a latent; ,f the Pericardium, to the Pericardium • ' . L"ngS' t0 the L“"gs i if the Vertebra or Pleura;, to the Vertebra; and Pleura,; if thc Dia. pnagm, to the Diaphragm; while the last accom- pany,ng the (Esophagus to the Stomach, is seen spreading „pon the Cardia, and ^ ^ with branches from the Gastric, that ultimately derives its origin from the Cceliac. ARTERI-E INTERCOSTAEES AORTICxE. These Arteries are named Aortic, or Inferior inteicostals, to distinguish them from the first or Superior Intercostal (I), that nsually arises from ’the Subclavian, or some of its branches. They are ramified on the Vertebral column and Tube, on the Pleurae, the Bibs, Intercostal muscles, the Great ympathetic, and the parts adjacent. They rise in pa,rs from seven to ten in number, according as the first, or Superior, Intercostal supplies one or155 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. more of the Costal interstices; according as the nlunber of the pairs of Ribs are more or fewer than twelve, which but rarely happens; or according as each Intercostal space (m), on which they are ramified, is supplied by a separate Intercostal Ar- tery, and not two of them supplied, a circumstance which very seldom occurs by a common trunk (re). (m) A difference likewise arises in the number, from Ana- tomists annexing different ideas to the term Intercostal, as ap- plied to Arteries. According to Haller, this term is applicable only to those Arteries that run in the Intercostal spaces; and therefore the last of his Intercostal arteries, is that which fol- lows the sacral margin of the eleventh rib. “ Intercostalis “ Aurtica nona et mtima est, quae sub undecima costa de- “ currit.”—Fascic. tmi. p. 69. According to Boyer and others, the last Intercostal Artery is that which follows the Sacral margin of the twelfth or last rib. “ La demi&re Iutereostale “ suit le bord Inferieure de la derm£re Cote.” This Artery of Boyer might properly enough be termed a Costal Artery ; but has certainly no title to the epithet Intercostal. It is the first Lumbar Artery of Haller. (n) “ Neque hoc rarum est deesse truncum aliquem In- “ tereostalem, ut duo intervalla ramos Intercostales ab una “ ex Aorta radice habeant, unde quidem nihil in reliqua his- “ tona mutatur. Ejusmodi cxempla etiam habet J. B. Win* “ slow, iii. p. 118. Paulo aliam varietatem Josephus Lieu- “ taud proposuiL Essais. cl'Anal. p. 487. Arteriam nempe “ Intercostalem him dextram, quam sinistram uno trunco ex “ Aorta natam.”—Haller, Fascic. viii. p. 65. The passage of Lieutaud, to which Haller refers, is in the Pans edition of 1766, at page 416. “ II arrive ordiuairement que les pre- “ mitres des Intercostales vienuent de l’Aorte par nn seul156 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. They rise from the Dorso-lateral aspects of the Aorta; those which are ramified towards the right passing across the Mesial Plane, and running dorsad. of the Vena Azygos. From the place of their origin, they run in a direction luterad and allantad (o), till “ tronc, nous avont dit qu’elle produisoit quclquefois de cettu " maniere les Intercostales Superieures qui naissent com- “ munement des sous-clavieres. On observe assez souvent, “que les Intercostales des deux C6t6s naissent d’un seul 1 rone, “qui vient de la partie posterieure de l’Aorte.” Can it be possible that this is the passage to which Sabatier alludes, when he says, “ M Lieutaud rapporte une variele plus ex- “ traordinaire : 11 a vu touteB les Intercostales Inferieure* “ venir de deux troncs qui tiroient leur origine de l’Aorte; il y “ en avoit un a droite et un second a gauche.” Or is it not equally singular that Portal should consider this variety, which is mentioned by Lieutaud, as the common mode in which the Aortic Intercostals originate ? “ Ces Artbres (les “ Intercostales Inferieures) sortent de la partie laterale et “ Posterieure de l’Aorte, par paires reunies en un seul tronc “ tres court.” (o) Portal had seen Intercostals running obliquely laterad and atlantad over two or three ribs, to the Costal interstices on which they were ramified. If he meant to say that he has seen them running on the vertebra;, and passing two or three of the interstices, he has seen nothing new, but if he has sten them crossing the rib's, as they appear in Haller’s Fig. Fascic. vii. Tab. v. where the Aorta is quite removed from its natural situation, he has seen something that is rather uncommon. His language is, “ Souvent mcrae, dies passeut sur un de ces inter- “ stiees sans y fournir des rameaux, et remontent au-dessus de <( deux et trois Cotes; les premieres, plus haut que lesA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 157 they reach the Sacral margins of the Ribs, a little beyond their articulations with the transverse Pro- cesses. Having reached these margins, they coast along them towards the Sternum, or Sternal aspect, where those in the interstices, situated atlantad of the sixth Rib, inosculate with branches from the Thoracics, and with Lateral branches from the Sternal Artery. Those in two or more of the interstices, situated sacrad of the sixth Rib, inoscu- “ suivantes, qui ont une direction horizontale.” He has seen them also running latorad and sacrad, to reach the interstices on which they were ramified. “ D’autres Art&res Intercostales “ Inferieures, ont quelquefois leur sortie de l’Aorte Superieure- “ ment aux espaces interoostaux dans lesquels elles se placent.” The most atlantal of these Intercostales has its origin generally about the fifth Vertebra, or opposite to the Cartilage between the third and fourth, and all the Intercostals, not excepting the first, which usually arises from the Subclavian, and de- scends to its interstices, have most commonly a retrograde course with respect to the Trunk from which they originate. That course is less retrograde the farther they are removed from the heart. At the last rib, they rise nearly at right angles; while the Lumbar Arteries, that follow in succession, begin to run laterad and saciad, and more and more sacrad in proportion to their distance from the left Ventricle. In short, these angles seem to be varied that the blood may flow nearly with the same force or momentum in all these Arteries; the angles, at which they severally originate, being less favourable to the momentum where the current is stronger in the Aorta, and more and more favourable as that current is weaker. An excellent representation of these several angles may be seen in the seventh Fasciculus of Haller, Tab. v.a Description 6f the aiiteries. 138 Jfttmg with branches from the Musculo-Phrenk and those in the interstices, still more sacrad, with branches from the Phrenic Artery itself, or with Lateral branches from the Epigastric and the Ab- dominal (p). From the place where they reach the Sacral mar- gins, to some way beyond the middle of the Ribs, they run on the concave side of the margins perl pherad of the Pleura, and there assisted by the Vein and the Nerve, termed Intercostal, are observed to produce, m a number of the Ribs, a groove or de- pression. Beyond the termination of this groove where the Ribs are less extended in breadth, they are no longer observed on the central, but upon the sacral aspect of the margins; while several of them, particularly in the interstices of the true Ribs, send off a branch that runs obliquely sacrad and sternad, till it reach the Atlantal margin of the Rib that is situated sacrad, when it runs on the opposite side of the interstice, parallel to the Trunk that had given it origm. This branch, which is sometimes ca led the Inferior Intercostal, is, like the Trunk, often seen continued into some of the branches from the Sternal aspect (q). (l>) tee Hailer, Fascic. Hi. p. 27, and Fascic. vni p. 69. (y) Haller, speaking of the Aortic Intercostals in general says, “Cannes ,d commune habent, ut proxime Capaulum su* Costa; m duos Kamos discedant, Dorsawm ad musculo150 A DESCRIPTION Of THE ARTERIES. Of the numerous branches that pass, peripherad, through the Costal interstices., to be ramified upon the incumbent muscles, there is only one which Haller has chosen to distinguish by a name. It is called the Dorsal, from the situation where it pene- •* dorsi se penetrantem, spinalemque medullam, et Intercos- “ talem gui continu iterum divisus duobus paraltelis truncis Cos- “ tarum suarum oras teg it—Fascic. vHi. p. 65. The words here printed in Italics, have been interpreted different ways: Mur- ray has supposed that the two branches coasted along the oppo* site margins of the same rib, and has therefore described the Su- perior or Atlantal as the smaller division of the common Trunk. Others have supposed that the two branches run along the margins of neighbouring ribs, situated on the opposite sides of the interstice, and therefore describe the inferior branch as the smaller division of the common Trunk; the last is the meaning which the words of Haller were intended to convey. “ Ramus,'' he says, “ Ramus Intercostalis tegitur. Pectus “ versus, musculis ejus nominis internis. Ad exiguam a “ Costae capitulo distantiam, paulo serius ocyusve dividitur “in duos ramos. Kamus inferior a quarta Intercostali “ deorsum minus constanter, et nonnunquam perexiguus est, “ et fere absque ramis, praeter eos qui Costae Membranas “ pulchre pererrant, et similibus ramis occurrunt, a superiori “ natis, turn eos qui musculis lutercostalibus prospiciunt.—— “ Saepius Inferior Trunculus, ahoquin minor, in superiorem, “ adscendit, et ipsi immitittur ueque alium finem habet”— Fascic. oiii. p. 66. , Ruysch, who admits the inferior branch towards the Sternal extremity of the Ribs, and between the Cartilages, thinks that16o A DESCRIPTION OF the ARTERIES. trates to the Peripheral aspect. It rises near to the origin of its Trunk, and passes outward, be- tween the Vertebrae and those Ligaments that ex- tend from Transverse process to Transverse. It is ramified on the Multifidus Spinae, the Spinalis such a branch at their Vertebral extremity is a rare occur- rence. « Varus in locis dictas Arterias Mammarias non solum trunculis sms irrigare demonstrabam inferiorem Lim- “ m CartilaglI1Um Costarum, verum etiam superiorem secus ac m spatns mterosseis, ubi rarissime si unquam, binis , trUnCUl'S S'n=U,arem ('ostam infra supraque ditari, obser- “ vavi: In alns antem objectis demonstravi quoque dictos “ trunculos intercartilagineos per solum marginem superiorem “111 allls locis’ Per inferiorem dijseminari.”—Epist. h. p. 18. What Ruysch has said here, must be understood of Inter, ostal Arteries running on the central aspect of the muscles; for Tab. „L fig. 3. of his first Thesaurus, represents Arteries running along the opposite margins of the same Rib. His language respecting them is, “ Arteri® Intercostales, exteriores a me “ d'Cte’ "°n S0lum per Costarum limbum inferiorem, verum “etiam inferiorem. reptantes. H® antem originem ducunt, “ non immediate ex Arteri® Magna Truuco, neque ex Mam- “ man‘s Arteriis Internis, ast vero rami Intercostales interior** “ dictas exteriores Produeunt.” Portal, speaking of External Intercostals that follow the Atlantal margins of the Ribs, says, “ These Arteries were “ kn°"rn t0 Ruysch> a,,d originate in Dorsal branches that U paSS PeriPherad near the angles of the Ribs.” From this description, they appear to be the same with Murray’s Su- perior Costal branches, and though they may commence fromA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 161 Dorsi, the Semispinalis, the Longissimus Dorsi, and the Sacrolumbalis; as also upon the Latissimus Dorsi, the Trapezius and Rhomboidius, where these are adjacent. From this Dorsal branch, or directly from theTrunk •f the Intercostal, a branch is sent to the neighbour- the Dorsal branches, near the angles of the Ribs, yet through the whole progress of their course they receive supplies from many other branches that run peripherad from the Primary Trunk. Thus, on comparing the descriptions given of the Intercostal* by different authors, we find that the same terms are employed to denote very different branches; the Superior Intercostal branch of Haller, is the continuation of the Trunk; the Su- perior Intercostal of Murray, one of the Kxtemal Intercostals of Ruysch ; the Inferior Intercostal of Haller, a small branch not observed by Ruysch, commencing near the angle of the Ribs, and following the Atlantal margin of the Rib that is situated sacrad ; the Inferior Intercostal of Murray, the con- tinuation of the Trunk ; the Inferior Intercostal of Boyer and others, the branch that occasionally separates from the Trunk, near the Sternal aspect, and, like the inferior at the Vertebral extremity, runs on the opposite side of the interstice as pictured by Ruysch. This singular confusion of language has partly arisen from the hurry of compilers not having patience to investigate the structure, nor to understand the meaning of the authors from whom they were copying; and partly too from thinking themselves always bound to describe whatever had been described by others, whether acquainted with the subject or not.A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. ing Vertebra?, and a branch to the Involucrum of the Vertebral Tube (r). This last, on entering the Tube, divides into two subordinate branches : one running round by the Dorsal aspect, and another by the Sternal, to meet their fellows of the opposite side ; they also inosculate ailantud and sacrad with the neighbouring branches of the same side. From this Vertebro-Involucral branch, from the Dorsal branch, or from the Intercostal Artery itself, other two branches are sent through the Inter- vertebral spaces, one to be ramified on the Dura Mater (s), the other to be ramified on the Spinal Marrow (<), and to communicate with the Spinal canals. But these are small, compared to the branch which is seen ramified upon the Involucrum, and are not found so regularly present as to enter at each Inter-vertebral space (w). As the Intercostals proceed in their course to- wards the Sternal extremity of the Ribs, they send off branches atlhntad and sacrad to supply the bones, muscles, and Periosteum in their vicinity; branches to communicate with the neighbouring Intercostals; and many branches, which, passing peripheral like (r) Vertebro-Involucral br anch. See p, 73. (s) Vertebro Meningeal branch. See p. 73. (0 The Medullar branch, ibid. (a) See p. 72. and 73.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 163 the Dorsal branch, and inosculating laterally near the margins of the Ribs, constitute the vessels which Ruysch has named the External Intercostals, and which, on certain occasions, may be seen in very minutely injected preparations. BRANCHES FROM THE ABDOMINAL PORTION OF THE AORTA. 1 he Aorta, having sent branches to the Head, Neck, Atlantal Extremities, the Viscera of the Tho- rax, and its Parietes, now enters the Abdomen be- tween the Long Crura of the Diaphragm (a) dorsad, sacrad, and a little sinistrad of that passage where the (Esophagus terminates in the Cardia. From the place where it.enters, resting on the last of the Dorsal Vertebrae, to where it divides, at the fourth of the («) The passage in the Diaphragm, by which the Aorta en- ters the Abdomen, is so admirably constructed, that the actions of the Diaphragm cannot affect it, so as either to impede er accelerate the circulation. K164 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Lumbar, into two branches, that supply the Pelvis and Sacral Extremities, it is known by the name of Abdominal Aorta. From this portion, branches are sent to the Ab- dominal Viscera and Parietes : These branches, in the order of description, are the Phrenic Arte- ries, the Coeliac, the Superior Mesenteric, the Inferior, the Emulgent or Renal, the (4) “ In quarta Lumborum Vertebra finditur, vel superius “ 111 corl,ore vcI mferius in Cartilagine, qua; inter cam quartam “ Vertel>ram et quintam latissima adest Vena cava demum in quinta Vertebra dividitur. Ita vere, ut solet Eustacbius, T. 26. et pro varietate refert J. B. Winslow, Tr. des Ar- “ teres, n. 228. Paulo altiorem in observationibus divisionem “ facit Fallopius, p. 136. qtlj Aortam Arteriam in Cartilagine “inter tertiam et quartam lumborum, Venam Cavam in “ (l.uarte Vertebra; corpore dividi scribit Rar® sunt fabric® “ in nuibus Arteria Aorta altius dividitur. Talem, vir egregius “ Petesche in fascic. observ. describit, in qua Aorta sub renali Arteria tissa fuit, ut duo rami iterum inter se com- “ municarent, eaque ex dextro trunco lliacam sui lateris, ex “ sinistra piaster lliacam, Mesentericam inferioreni dedit.” Haller, Fascic. iv. p. 27. I have never seen any division of the Aorta similar to that which is mentioned by Petesche; but have seen the common Iliac Veins, in returning the blood from the Sacral extremities, unite on the fifth Lumbar Vertebra by ,i transverse branch j but ceased to unite in a common trunk, until they had reached as high as the kidnies, where the left received the venous blood from the left kidney, and the com- mon trunk the blood from the rightA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 165 K 2 Spermatic, the Capsular, the Adipose, the Ure- teric, and the Lumbar. Of these, the Cceliac and the two Mesenteric are always single; the Phrenic, the Renal, and the Spermatic, generally in single pairs ; the Lumbar in five or in six pairs ; the Capsular, Adipose, and Ureteric, also in pairs; but the number indefinite, and the origins various. ARTERIiE PHRENIC.*. These are the Arteries that, rising directly, or indirectly, from the Abdominal part of the Aorta, are ramified on the concave side of the Diaphragm, and which, advancing from the Mesial Plane at its Dorsal aspect, extend their branches sterna,i and later ad, till they meet with branches from the Ster- nal Arteries and the Intercostals. M hen two of them arise by a common trunk, that trunk is either from the Coeliac, or from the Aorta ■ when they rise separately, both are from the Cceliac (c), or from the Aorta ; or one from the Coeliac, and (r) Haller observed that the Phrenic branches arose more frequently from the Coeliac Artery than from the Aorta P|lre- “ mcae. Una vel utraque pierumque ex Uceliaca venit, et “ frequentius quam ex Aorta, per meas eerte observationes.” —Fascic. ii. Annolat. ad Tab. i. not. 6.1(56 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. one from the Aorta ; or one from the Renal, anil one from the Aorta ; or one from the first Lumbar Artery (</), and the other from either the Coeliac or Aorta; or one from the Trunk of the Coeliac Ar- tery, and another from a branch of the same Artery. In one instance, Haller saw three, two from the Trunk, and one from a branch of the Coeliac; and in another four, two from the Aorta, and two from the Cce- hac. But, were we to mark every difference in number, in mode of origin, in relative distances, in magnitude' situation, in arrangement and extent of ramification, and in the varieties of inosculation, instead of a page, we might fill a volume, not only with the varieties of the Phrenies, but of many other Arteries. Our business in examining such varieties, should be to ascertain what is regular, and what is variable in the character of an Artery, after obtaining the general result upon the fair principles of induction, to disregard, in our description, every future variety that does not affect the general conclusion previously established. After the many varieties he had seen, and of which he had read respecting the Phrenies, at the time when he published his second Fasciculus in 1745, Haller had continued to observe, and record (4) “ La Cceliaque, la premiere Loiubaire droite produisent “ trfcs-souvent la Diaphragmatique de ce Cote.”—Lieulaud. Essais Anatomijues.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. lfi? additional varieties till 1756, when he published his eight, and last Fasciculus (e). And, had he persevered in the same inquiry, might have dis- covered a great many more, without leading to any important or general inference, that could not have been deduced from his previous observations. These Arteries are not only irregular in their number and origin, but in their extent of ramifica- tion. They are not always confined to the Dia- phragm ; they have been observed distributing Ra- muli to the Capsulae Atrabiliarise, to the Liver and Pancreas. As for their inosculations with the In- tercostals, the CEsophageals, and Phrenic branches descending from the Thorax, they are only singular when they happen to be more conspicuous than usual: It being common in every situation for Ar- teries to inosculate, through the medium of their branches, with those in their vicinity, with those that are ramified on the same organ, or with those that are ramified on contiguous organs. ARTERIA CtELIACA. A very minute and detailed account of this Ar- tery, containing his own, and many observations of preceding Anatomists, was published by Augustus (e) See Fascic. ii, iii. and viii. K ?>l6'S A description of the arteries. Fred Walther in 1729. In this account, accom- pamed with a figure, which, though not very elegant, 18 sufficient}y accurate as to the Anatomy, he fre- quently mentions the comparative distances in lines and inches, not recollecting, that, if these distances were in regular proportion, they must vary with the size of the individual, and, if not in proportion, must necessarily differ in different individuals of the same size, particularly in an Artery, which he has shown to enjoy such latitudes in the order, number, the magnitudes, and ramifications of its branches. To the varieties mentioned by Walther, the illustri- ous Haller, from his own observations and extensive reading, has made numerous additions, both in I*!8 Second and eiSht Fasciculus, and besides in Ins second has given two elegant engravings, repre- senting the branches of the Cceliac Artery, as they occurred in two individuals. To these branches he has given names, and most of these in allusion'to the parts on which they are ramified, as the Stomach, the Liver, the Spleen, the Pancreas, the Pylorus Duodenum, and the Epiploon. But, as each of t lese parts is supplied by branches that, in different individuals, exhibit diversities in origin, number, and ramification, their names, like those denoting a species in Natural History, must be general terms, and should never be employed to express any indivi- dual distinctions.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. l6») Any naturalist would be deemed inexcusable, if pretending to describe the species dog, lion, or horse, he merely described a particular animal belonging to these species. This, however, is but too frequently the practice with Anatomists, who in describing a nerve or a blood vessel, usually describe some common variety as forming its ge- neral outline or character, and then enumerate the other varieties, which they happen to observe, as particular exceptions; though these varieties be no more exceptions from the one described, than the one described is an exception from them. Many Anatomists, perceiving that the previous descriptions of authors were not applicable to those varieties of the Cceliac Artery which they had ob- served, have invented names to suit the varieties which they had seen ; so that names, for the varying branches of the Cadiac, have been multiplied to the utmost degree of confusion. Nor has Haller in the least diminished this confusion, by collecting these names, and attempting to show that they all are synonynjes of one or other of the varieties which he has described. He seldom divests himself of the notion that he is describing regular Arteries, or refrains from the habit of enumerating particulars, instead of generalizing his ideas. Although he knew, he does not seem to reason as if he knew, that, in addition to the general latitude of ramification en- K 4f1 A description op the arteries. joyed by the Coeliae, in common with other Ar- temi Trunks, it has a peculiar claim to more a claim arising from the varying proportions of the principal organs on which it is distributed. In toung subjects, such as those from which he has taken his two figures, the proportional magnitude of the Liver is greater than in the adult, and the size of the Arteries varying with the size of the organs on which they are ramified (f), the Gastric branches in these figures seem only branches from the Hepatics; while the Splenic, which is larger in ■he adult than all the Hepatics taken together, is here but a branch of one of the Hepatics to the right lobe. Such varying proportions, from age or disease, are no small source of different appearances in the ramifications of the Coeliac Artery, and no un- usual source of confusion in the description. Thus, when a branch is distributed to both the Stomach and Liver, if the one to the Liver happen to be the larger, the Hepatic branch is then said to send off ff) See the present description of the Arteries, p. 11. and the Introduction, p. xxiv. and xxv. I„ the case mentioned by Mr. Abernethy of Bartholomew’s Hospital, where the Vena Bortae terminated in the Vena Cava, and where the Hepatic Artery was the only vessel that supplied the Liver with blood, for the purpose either of nutrition or secretion, it w’as found to be larger than common. See Vol. 1. Philosophical Transact, for 1793,A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 171 the Gastric, or if the Gastric happen to be the larger, it receives a name, implying that it sends off the Hepatic. On this principle, a Gastric branch is occasionally made to send off a Phrenic, while a Phrenic branch is made, in its turn, when it happens to be larger, to send off a Gastric. If I give a description of the ramifications of the Coeliac Artery, at once more concise and more suitable to its general character than is given by Haller, I wish the reader to be informed, that he is less indebted to me than he is to him for the improvement. Had it not been for his unweari- ed research and extensive information, I should not have had, from my own observations, or the writings of any other Anatomist, a sufficient number of authenticated facts to be able to distinguish what is general, from what is particular, in its ramifica- tions and mode of distribution. In all individuals that have yet been examined, the Coeliac rises from the Sternal aspect of the Aorta, where it enters the Abdomen between the two Crura of the Diaphragm. Its origin, therefore, is allantad of the Pancreas, sacrad of the Liver, dorsad of the Stomach, and dexlrad of the Spleen, in the close vicinity of the two Capsulas Atrabi- liaria?, of the two Semilunar ganglions, and of the Superior Mesenteric Artery, which always rises near it in succession, though very seldom rises along with K 5A description of the arteries. it by a common trunk (g). Immediately almost after its origin, it divides into branches, though in no regular or determinate manner. It occasionally sends off Capsular branches, and more frequently than the Aorta, the Phrenic branches that are rami- fied on the concave side of the Diaphragm. The organs which in general are wholly supplied from this source, are the Stomach, the Liver, (/*) the Spleen, and Epiploon, named Gastro Hepatic; those that derive from it only a partial, though regular supply, are the Duodenum, the Pancreas, and Epiploon, termed Gastro-colic. The principal branches arc the Gastric, Hepatic, and Splenic; the Hepatic and Splenic, in every instance that has yet been ob- served, conveying a portion of their blood to the Stomach. (g) Several Anatomists, mistaking the ambiguous language of Galen, had described these Arteries as rising regularly by a common trunk. Haller, believing in 1745 that this never hap- pened, observes, when treating of the Mesenteric in his third Fasciculus, p. 44. “ Unica est perpetuo et sque diversa a “ Cceliaca.” But, in 1756, in his eight Fasciculus, Note 11. recommends the following addition to be made: « Semel ta- “ men A. 1751. communi trunco natam vidi.” {h) Haller mentions one case in which the Superior Me- senteric furnished the whole of the Hepatic branches. “ Ut " omnino nihil Hepati Cceliaca daret.but, so far as I know, this is the only instance on record. See Fascic. vni. p. 36.178 A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. ARTERIjE GASTRI.E. The term Gastric, in a general sense, is equally applicable to all the branches ramified on the Sto- mach ; but is usually restricted to the branches that enter at the concave arch, where the Gastro- hepatic Epiploon is attached. These branches, whether they arise near the confines of the Stomach from a common trunk, whether at a distance from different sources, or whether they be two or more in number, are seen extending, on the concave part of the Gastric arch, sinistrad towards the Cardia, and dextrad towards the Pylorus and the Duodenum. As they advance in these opposite directions, they send Ramuli from one of their sides to the smaller Epiploon, named Gastro-hepatic, and from the other, branches that spread on the Sternal and Dorsal aspects of the Stomach, continuing their course to the convex part of the Gastric arch, till they meet with branches from the Vasa Brevia, and from the two Gastro-epiploics, furnished by the Splenic and Hc-patic Arteries In this distribution, the branches sinistrad towards the Cardia, naturally inosculate with the last CEsophagcals and Ramuli of the Phrenics ; while the branches dextrad towards the Pylorus, if they do not extend their ramifications upon the Duodenum, and head of the Pancreas, as K 6174 A DESCRIPTION OF TIIE ARTERIES. naturally inosculate with the branches distributed on .these organs. It frequently happens that an Hepatic, and some- times a Phrenic, arises with one of these Gastric branches from some of the larger divisions of the Coeliac; in that case, the Anatomist, fond of novel distinctions, and of perpetuating his remarks by names, extends the appellation of the common trunk to the larger branch, and as the two often vaiy in proportion from different causes’, the Gastric branch is sometimes said to give off the Hepatic; the He- patic sometimes to give off the Gastric; the Gastric, the Phrenic ; and the Phrenic, the Gastric, just as the one or the other at the time happens to predo- minate in point of magnitude. The reader who is anxious to know the names that have been given to the gastric branches, will find a number of the most important in the note be- low *. * A branch running on the concave part of the arch of the Stomach towards the Cardia, is named Coronaria Superior by Haller and Cowper, Gastrica Major by Bauhin, Diember- broeck, and others, Gastrica by G'lisson, Epigastrica by Lower, Gastrica Sinistra by Keil, Gastrica Superior by Walther. Such a branch has sometimes been observed sending off an Hepatic Artery, when, in the opinion of Walther and Haller, it ought to be named Gastro-hepatica Sinistra. It has sometimes been ob- served sending off one of the Phrenics, when, by parity of rea- son, it ought to be named Gasiro-phrenica Sinistra. A GastriccA DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. 175 ARTERt-E HEPATICJ5. Seven times in thirty Haller saw the right lobe of the Liver supplied by a branch, that, rising from the Superior Mesenteric, run dorsad of the right ex- Sinistra of Bauhin, is supposed by Haller to have been the same as a Ramus Dexter of bis Coronaria Superior, a branch towards the left of the Stomach, although to the right of the Coronary trunk. A branch running in an opposite direction towards the Py- lorus, and on the same side of the arch, is named Coronaria Dextra by Haller, Pylorica by Glisson, Gaslrica Dextra by Verheyen, and others. A Gastrica Dextra Minor of Walther, is supposed by Haller to have been the same as his Pylorica Superior, the Gastrica Dextra of Winslow, Lieutaud, Kulm, and Boudon, the Gastrica Major of hPiGEnus, and the Coronaria Inferior of Cowper, the same as the Gastro-cpiploica Dextra of Bauhin, Diemberbroeck, Glisson, Hbister, and others. Haller has mentioned an Epiploica posterior, Lieutaud an E]ii- ploica dextra and an Epiploica parva, different from all these previous branches. The Pancreutico Duodenalis of Haller, the Duodenal of Winslow and Lieutaud, and the Intestinalis of Bauhin, though a small branch running along the concave side of the second, and a part occasionally of the third flexure of the Duodenum, is made by Haller, the trunk of the Gastro Epiploica dextra, not on account of its size, for it is smaller than its branch, but on account of its direction. The confusion of language is beyond a parallel, when we come to name the fleeting varieties, in number, origin, and ramification, that arc exhibited by the smaller Pyloric, Duodenal, Pancreatic, and Cystic branches.A description of the arteries. tremity of the Pancreas, towards the Fossa of the Vena Portae (?); and at one time, saw the Superior Mesenteric supply all the Arteries of the Liver (k). In general, however, the Liver is supplied from the Cceliac Artery by a branch that divides towards nght and left, on approaching the Fossa of the Vena Port*; by a branch that has an earlier division ; or occasionally by two or more separate branches, some proceeding directly from the Coeliac, or from a trunk common to them, and to either a Phrenic or a Gastric branch. They usually enter at the trans- verse Fossa, or Fossa Vena Port*, the left at that extremity of the Fossa that terminates in the Fossa Umbilicalis; branches too have occasionally been seen entering the Fossa Ductus Venosi, or that seeming continuation of the Fossa Umbilicalis be- tween the left Lobe, and the Lobulus Spigelii. Pre- vious to their entrance, those which are adjacent send branches to the Vesicula Fellis, the Ductus Cysticus, and Ductus Hepaticus; some send Ra- muh to the Ligamentum Suspensorium, that in- osculate with Ramuli of the Sternal Arteries, and some Ramuli that inosculate round the Coronary Ligament with Ramuli from the Phrenics. O') See Fascic. ii. 0. ad Tab. 1. Arteriffi Cceliaca*, Fascie. iii. n. 6. p. 45. and U) See Note, page 178.A DESCRIPTION’ OF THE ARTERIES. 177 From one of the larger Hepatic branches towards the right, or sometimes from the Trunk of the Coeliac itself, a conspicuous branch is seen running dorsad of the first portion of the Duodenum, and passing that portion, is seen again reflected, sinistrad, upon the convexity of the Gastric arch, where the Gastrocolic Epiploon is attached. This branch, where it runs on the Stomach, being generally steady and uniform in its character, has very pro- perly received a name, and is called the Gaslro- epiploica Dextra. In its course, it sends branches to the Duodenum and Pancreas; and from a pre- valent, but unjustifiable practice of describing por- tions of the same vessel as separate Arteries, at one part, it has sometimes been named the Pancrcaiico- duodenalis, and described as a branch of that very Trunk, of which it is evidently the continuation (/). Where it runs on the Stomach towards the left, it sends out a number of lateral branches to be rami- fied on the Gastrocolic-epiploon, and lateral branches (Z) “ Pancreatico Duodenalis, dum retro Duodeni princi- “ pium, ante Pancreas descendit, dat ramos ipsi duodeno, “ alios parvos, alios longiores, ad flexionem transversam pri- “ mam: Ubi autem fiuem inferiorem est emensa Duodeni, vel “ paulo supra dat ramum Pancreaticum transversum quern alias “ Mesenterica producit. Ad sinistra educit eadem Pan- " creatico-duodenalis, ad rectum angulum, magnam Gastro- “ epiploicam Dextram, Sec.”—Haller, Fascic. ii. N. j. et r. ad Tab. 1. Arteriae Cceliacae.178 A description of the arteries. from its opposite side to bo ramified on the Stomach • some spreading on the Sternal aspect, and some » he Do, sal, till they meet and inosculate with similar branches proceeding from the concave part of the arch. After sending off these lateral branches, it is gene,ally seen continued (*) into the Gastro-epiploica Crfac2' at ™“ f'°m 'hC Sp‘CniC branch <he In some eases, this Artery has inosculated, near - 0 the right extremity of the Pancreas, with a branch from the Superior Mesenteric, as large, or oven larger than itself, presenting an appearance which made Haller doubtful whether he should view' tins Gastro-epiploic as a branch of the Celiac, „r Superior Mesenteric («). cuWihLCT D"‘ra‘ 0,“nt,,ib“ « ventri- , ° " !',r0Ul“ aamerosis ad glandules, in m orratura jacent, absumtis, ultimo OCeurrit ramo dexter .. . II. (Cujus icon Cffiterum multk "cq„e a„.T,“ xx».. f. 4. aequo Ves.bus habet, sed „m„ ali,„„ ,«e con. omumcat.opeificituriutiobseuramviditbaaec.lmuaio,::; . HebenslreUius. Sed Anastomosis frequentior est Alluding to this Mesenteric branch, Halter says, « Vidi M ,amUm comrnimicanteni majorem fuiSSe illo, cum “.quo convenit, Celiac* ramo, ut Gastro-cp^a, a Meson-A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 175 “ Winslow® eontigit.”—Fustic. iii. />. 45. ARTERIA SPLENICA. Th'e separate origin of this Artery from the Aorta, as seen by Drelinconrt, Tulingius, and others, had never at any time beeta observed by Haller. It ge- nerally rises from the Trunk of the Coeliac, or rises as a branch from one of its divisions ; is usually smaller in the young subject than the common trunk of the Hepatics, when there is such a trunk; but usually larger than that Artery in the adult. It runs first sinislrad and sacrad, then sinistrad and at- lantad, and, during a great part of the course, runs near the Atlantal margin of the Pancreas, to which it gives out numerous branches, and branches some- times to the Mesocolon. When it approaches the seat of thfe Spleen, where that is attached to the Gaster or Stomach, in the line of the Gastrocolic Epiploon, it enters the concave side of that Viscus by several branches indefinite in number, and either directly, or through these branches, gives out other branches to the Stomach, under the name of Vasa Brevia. These Vasa Brevia spread on the left ex- tremity of the Stomach, and inosculate on the Sternal and Dorsal aspects with the neighbouring Gastrics. “ terica potlus quam, a Duodenali Ccsliacae oriretur. Id ctiama description of the arteries. ISO The Splenics send another branch to the Stomach, " *11C^ ls named the Gastro-epiploica Sinistra. This branch runs dexlrad, parallel to the two sides of the arch, and along the convexity, where the Gastrocolic- epiploon is attached. It is afterwards continued into the Gastro-epiploica Dcxtra, and sends off branches in a similar manner to the Stomach and Gastrocolic- epiploon. It rises sometimes from the Splenic Ar- tery, as that is coasting along the Pancreas ; some- times appears the division of the Cceliac, from which the Splenic branches originate ; sometimes again has its place supplied by two or more branches running along the Epiploon to the Stomach, and called the Gastro-epiploica; Sinistra? (o). As the distances and positions of the Spleen, must vary with the different states and positions of the Stomach, this Ai tery takes a flexuous course, and is made to be easily elongated or shortened, accord- ing to circumstances. Its flexures, observed pre- vious to injection, are always conspicuous when the (o) “ Gastro-epiploica Sinistra Ea Arteria, antrorsum “ emergit et deorsum, magnoque ambitu veutrioulum, a quo “ remota est, longis tribus quatuorve posteriori omenti faciei “ innatantibus flexuosis ramis adit, neque unum plerumque “trUDCUm habet> parallelum ventriculo, uti dextra solet “ Gastra-epiploica. Alias «t in hac leone. (Tab. 2. Arteri® “ C0ellUaB) eailem vtrus truncus est splenic®, tuncqueZWe, “ ipsi pro ramis suut Fascic. ii. N. g. ad Tab. 2. Artenae Cteliacae.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 181 injection is propelled with more than ordinary force. The force which thus elongates the Artery, at the same time increases its diameter, and provides a remedy against the excess of impetus or quantity, by an additional extent of the flexures. ARTERIA MESENTERIC MAJOR, seu Superior. This Artery rises from the Sternal aspect of the Aorta, in the immediate vicinity of the Cceliac, and often so near, that Galen’s description, if not care- fully examined, might seem to imply that they ge- nerally originate by a common trunk. Riolan, a devoted admirer of Galen, and some other compilers from books, described this origin as the regular ap- pearance ; but their description imposed upon few. The error was detected by Jacobus Sylvius, Vesalius, Columbus, and other Anatomists. In 1745, the il- lustrious Haller was of opinion, that such an origin never had occurred ; but afterwards acknowledged that he had met with a solitary instance in 1751 (p). (/') See Fascic. Hi. p. 44. n. 6. ami Fascic. viii.jp. 35, n. 11.182 A description of the arteries. Allowing the case to be extremely rare, it is na- tural to suppose, upon the general principles of analogy, that the two Arteries, from their close vici- nity, must often inosculate through the medium of t ien branches, and that occasionally branches from the one may supply the place of branches from the other. Besides the branches which this Artery does not unfrequently send to the Liver, and be- sides its branches that anastomose with CceJiac branches, near to the right extremity of the Pancreas^ I haVe seen a branclb as large as a crow quill, arising rom the root of the Gastric branch, and, after giv- ing out two or three Ramuli to the Pancreas, enter- ing at the root of the first branch that was sent f the Colon. The parts on which it is regularly distributed are the Pancreas, the Duodenum, the Jejunum, the eum, the Caput Caecum Coli, the Appendicula Ver- miformis, the right Colon, and the transverse Colon ; in short, the whole intestinal canal, excepting the left Colon and Rectum, the first of these receiving all its principal branches from the smaller Mesenteric” and the second from that and the Hypogastric. Ihe order in which these branches arise, is in some respects different from that in which the several portions of Intestine succeed one another. The first branches are sent to the Pancreas and Duodenum, where they communicate with branches from the183 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Cocliac; the next to the transverse and right Colon, and then come the branches distributed to the Je- junum and Ileum. The course of the Trunk, and the mode in which it gives out these branches, have generally a dis- tinct and permanent character. Proceeding from its orisin, it runs first dextrad and sacrad behind the Pancreas ; emerges next from beneath the margin of that Gland ; passes sternad, and within the dupli- cature of the Mesocolon, over the last flexure of the Duodenum ; enters now the duplicature of the Me- sentery, and here in future regulates its course by the direction of the Dorsal attachments of that membrane, by its inclination towards the Viscera, and by the general contour of the line, where its laminae separate to form their peritoneal coat. From this course follows a curve, whose convexity points sinistrad and sternad, and whose further extremity, accompanying the Ileum to its termination, unites with a branch of the right Colon, and constitutes a kind of Vascular arch, situated in the right Iliac re- gion. From the convexity of this curve, or from the side on which this convexity is situated, proceed in general all its branches, excepting sometimes a branch or branches to the right Colon from the concave side, and a branch to the transverse Colon on the left, which sometimes proceeds neither fromA description of the arteries. 184 the concave nor convex side; but from that side whose aspect points sinistrad and dorsad. The branches to the Coion, measuring from the Trunk, arc generally among the largest and longest, and the rest, particularly from the middle of the curve, smaller and shorter to its termination. As they proceed to their destination, the contiguous branches inosculate laterally by others not inferior, or but little inferior to themselves in size. The inosculations form arches whose convexities are point- ed towards the intestines; from the convexities of t icse arches, other branches originate and inosculate by arches in a similar manner, till in some places, where the Mesentery is broad, there are seen no fewer than four or five series of arches; the arches be- coming smaller and smaller in proportion as the vessels decrease in diameter, and the largest branches at the commencement always forming the largest arches. On taking a side view of the whole, they suggest the idea of a piece of network, where the threads and the meshes gradually diminish in the same proportion. From the convexities of the last arches, small branches enter the concave side of the intestine, after previously dividing into two that are smaller. These last run on the opposite sides of the Tube, spread into ramuli that meet and inosculate at the convex side, having inosculated dur-A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 185 ing their progress with lateral Ramuli of the same side. The branch to the left of the transverse Colon anastomoses with a large branch of the smaller Me- senteric, and forms what is called the Great Me- senteric Arch. The other inosculations I shall men- tion under the Lesser Mesenteric. ARTERIA MESENTERICA MINOR, seu Inferior (q). This Artery, says Haller, making the remark in 174-7, has enjoyed a singular degree of good fortune. A rare instance amidst the instability of human affairs, it still continues to retain the name that was first imposed by Jacobus Sylvius, while, for two centuries, it has neither become a subject of controversy, nor suffered any change in the way of description. Schelhammer, however, he candidly acknowledges, objected to the name, as it sends no branches to the Mesentery, considered as distinct (<j) “ Mesenterica inferior rara felicitate usa est, ut parco “ in rebus humanis exemplo a duobus seculis nullam omnino “ passa sit aut in nomine, aut in descriptione aut mutationem, “ aut controversial^”—Fascic. viii. p. 49. n. 12.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. from the Mesocolon; he admits also that not only erheyen, but a few others, have called it Hemorr- hoidal; that Eustachius has combined it in his figure with the larger Mesenteric; and that, in the figure given by Casserius, its form and principal anastomosis are both misrepresented. Haller him- self, yielding to the reasons advanced by Schel- hammer, thinks it should be called, and has actually called it Colica ,Sinistra. In his opinion, he has made this change agreeably to the laws which re- gulate the Nomenclature of Linnaeus. The name, if adopted, would certainly distinguish it from what im has called Colica Dextra, and Colica Dextra would sepn to imply, that there is also a Colica Shmira.' But was there any kind of necessity for such a name as Colica Dextra ? Did Linnams ever impose names upon the mere varieties of species, or would he have classed a varying branch of the larger Mesenteric with a primary branch from the Aorta, bearing a steady and uniform character? If this Artery lias suffered little change in the way of description, that is partly owing to its steadi- ness of origin, and general distribution, and partly, too, to what may be thought a rare instance of pru- dence n Anatomists, their attending more to its general character, than to individual and triflino- varieties that occasionally occur in its smaller branches. As some apology for Haller’s appellation.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 187 the Colica Sinistra, which naturally suggests an idea of relation between it and the Colica Dextra, it must be confessed, although he has no where, so far as I know, made the remark, that the Arteries dis- tributed to the larger Intestine, exhibit a marked difference of appearance, from those distributed to the Duodenum, Jejunum, and Ileum. Whether from the larger or smaller Mesenteric, they are pro- portionally larger in size, fewer in number, diverge to greater distances in their course, form arches of a wider span, and divide later into small Ramuli, than those distributed to the small Intestine. Where the Aorta divides not as high as the Renal Arteries, a case of extremely rare occurrence, the smaller Mesenteric regularly rises from its Sternal aspect, a little to the left, in the space interposed be- tween the Renals and the common Iliacs: It divides soon into what are comparatively large branches, destined to the left Colon and Rectum. They form arches, like those to the right Colon and transverse ; while the most atlantal, inosculating with the branch of the larger Mesenteric that is ramified on the transverse Colon to the left, constitutes the Great Mesenteric Arch. The branch that is ramified upon the Rectum, runs longitudinally on its Dorsal aspect, inosculates with branches from the two Hypogastrics. and, though seldom extending its ramifications so far as the Sphincter, has its ultimate branches L188 A description of the arteries. enumerated among those that are termed Hcemorr- hoidal. The extreme vessels of the two Mesenteries, where they scarcely are visible to the naked eye, have been traced by the assistance of the micro- scope, penetrating centrad through the nervous coat, and exhibiting beautiful retiform textures upon the villous or internal coat. The honour of tracing them is due to the patience and industry of Liberkuhn. By aqueous injections, it has also been shown that they open by numerous exhalant vessels upon the concave surface of the Tube, which, in the morbid states of the Viscera, accounts for the fre- quent and copious discharges of fecal matter, that cannot be ascribed to the previous ingesta (?•), O') In restoring the Stomach and the Intestines to their na- tural functions, much of the utility of purgative medicines may consist in removing the morbid and noxious matter, thus exhaled from the internal coat of the Intestine. The advan- tages resulting from the use of purgatives have been partially known from the earliest periods in the history of Physic. A clear, extensive, and systematic view of their utility, of the diseases to which they are applicable, and the various cir- cumstances by which their exhibition ought to be regulated, was first given by Dr. Hamilton, Sen. of Edinburgh, Senior Phy- sician to the Royal Infirmary. His work contains a summary view of his observations in extensive practice for more than a period of thirty years, and is certainly a novelty amidst a number of the Medical product.ons of the present day, which are pub-A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 189 At those portions of the Intestine, which are closely attached to the Parietes by the Peritoneum, as the Duodenum, the Recium, the Caput Ccecum, and the Colon at its right and left Ligaments, the Mesenteries naturally inosculate with adjacent Ar- teries, whether these happen to be Capsular, Pan- creatic, Renal, Lumbar, Spermatic, Ureteric, or Haemorrhoidal; the vessels to the transverse part of the Colon, inosculating likewise, in the same way, with branches proceeding from the Gastro-epiploics. ARTERI/E RENALES. These are usually two in number, arising laterally from the Aorta ; but nearer to its Sternal than its Dorsal aspect, and between the larger and smaller Mesenteric. Their course to the kidnies is laterad and sacrad, at considerably less than a right angle. Haller says, at less than half of a right angle (j) ; lished as Advertisements, in the form of volumes, to acquaint the Public, that the author has entered upon his profession, made some observations, got some theories ; has some abili- ties, and would be glad to extend farther his experience and practice. (j) “ In numero utique ludunh Naturaliter utraque unica “ est, eaque non ad rectum angulum, ut vulgo scribitur, sed “ ad satis insignem, scmirecto tamen minorem, descendit ex “ Aorta. Contmuo sub Mesenteriea, &e.”—See Fascic. viii. Tab. 1. I suspect minorem is here by mistake written for ma- jorem. L 2A DESCRIPTION OP the ARTERIES; 190 but his figure is contrary to his observation. Saba* tier. Portal, Boyer (if), and the Continuator of Bichat, have seen the left higher than the right in point of origin. Haller, however, represents the right as higher than the left, as Eustachius more generally found it; Portal has seen both rising together by a common trunk (u). From the relative situation of the Aorta to the Mesial Plane, at the place of their origin, the left is always shorter than the right, and the variety of Renal branches, according to Soemmerring, not ac- (0 “ La Renal gauche nait ordinairement plus en devant et “ plus en haut que la droite.”—Sabatier. “ Celle du cote droit vient ordinairement de I’Aorte un peu “ plus bas que la gauche.”—Portal. La Renale gauche nait comniunement plus en devant et “ un plus haut que la droite.”—Boyer. “ bouvent la Renale gauche nait un peu plus haut que la “ droite.”—Bichat, Anat. Descnp. Have these Anatomists transferred to the Arteries, what was meant of 'the 'kidnies, in the remarks on figure 1. Tab. xii. of Eustachius ? “ A. Renis dexter est major, quam IE sinister, parte su- “ periore uterque aequalem fere altitudinem habet; sinister “ enim nonnihil dextro est elatior, inferiore, dexter sinistro 11 liumilior est, et hoc evenit propter magnitudinem; cujue “ causa sinister altior dextro dicLpotest.” (u) “ J’ai vu ces deux troncs reunis en un seul, qui sortoit “ de la face anterieure de l’Aorte it tres peu de distance de la “ Mesenterique Superieure.”A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Jt)l eording to Eustachius or Haller, usually greater on the left side than upon the right (v). They divide into branches sometimes upon their entering the Kidnies; sometimes before they enter the sinuses ; and sometimes very near to the place of their origin from the Aorta. At other times, though by no means frequently, these branches arise in the form of Trunks by separate origins, to (the number of three, four, or five; some arising from the Aorta, nearly as high as the Mesocolon ; some from the angle of its division ; some again from the common Iliac; and, in rare cases, from the Hypogastric (tv). After entering the kidnies, some of them are seen, though only occasionally, inosculating by arches, as they diverge from the centre peripherad. Their divisions increase rapidly in number, and are generally so minute in the cor- tical substance, that many refuse to admit the in- jection ; while the injection of those that admit it. (p) “ Arteria Renalis Sinistra interdum triplex est, quin “ quadruplex. Arteria Renalis Dettra longior est Sinistra et “ profundior exit. Raro duae, tres, quatuor, aut quinque de- 11 prehenduntur.” Soemmernng. But see Haller, Fascic. iii. p. 59. (to) See Haller, Fascic. iii. p. 58 and 59. See also Eustach. Tab. jrii. where some of the figures represent the Arteries as entering at several different parts, besides the sinuses, with the Veins and Ureters, likewise coining out at different parts.^ A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. is washed off with the Parenchyma in corroded pre- parations. In their course, they send off Capsular branches, the right not unfrequently one of the Spermatics* and both of them branches to the adipose substance; some of which have occasionally been observed pas- sing through the kidnies. ARTERI.E SPERMATIC.®. These are the Arteries ramified on the Testes, the organs which secrete the Spermatic fluid. They rise in the neighbourhood of the Renal Arteries. In eighteen cases out of thirty, Haller observed them taking their origin from the Aorta, where they usually rise from its Sternal aspect, not regularly opposite, but sometimes the one more atlantad than the other. Pioceeding at a very acute angle from the Aorta, they pass obliquely over the Ureters, and, running on the Sternal aspect of the Psoas, dorsad and peripheracl of the Peritoneum, they at last approach the ligament of Poupart, when they take a turn sacrad and mesiad ; cross the Epigastrics on their Sternal aspect, and, entering what is called the Abdominal Rings, with the Cremasters and Spermatic cords, ac- company them to the Testes, where they send out their ultimate branches, entering the Testes uponA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. lgcf that side where the Tunica Albuginea is reflected from the Tunica Vaginalis (ar). When they do not originate from the Aorta, they rise from the Capsular or Renal branches ; from some'of the Lumbar; from the common Iliacs; from the Hypogastrics; or from the Epigastrics (y). The explanation of these origins is not difficult: From the original situation of the Testes in the neighbourhood of the Kidnies, they, agreeably to the principles of general analogy, receive branches from* adjacent Arteries, as the Aorta, the Renals, and (.r) The Tunica Albuginea is the Peritonial coat which the Testes had when lodged in the cavity of the Abdomen; the Tunica Vaginalis, the Peritonial Sac which the Testis carries down with it into the Scrotum. The Tunica Vaginalis is, there- fore, nothing more than the Hernial Sac of the Testis, and, if not closed, becomes a Hernial Sac of the Intestine, as iu Ht/rnia Congenita. (y) See Haller, Fascic. iii. p. 60. See also his edition of the Pnelectiones Academics of Boerhaave, vol. v. p. 1. § dcxli. n. a. “ On a vu les Art&res Spermatiques sortant des Artfcres “ Lombaires; outre les Artircs Spermatiques conuues, on “ trouve quelquefois d’autres branches Arterielles qui par- “ viennent aux testicules, et qui sont fournies par les Artferes “Lombaires; par les Iliaques primitives, ce qui estrare; “ par les Arteres Epigastriques ce qui est plus rare encore, “ mais e’est ce qui a ete observe.”—Portal. Mayer saw one from the Hypogastric. L 4>A DESCRIPTION OP the ARTERfES. Capsulars. Descending afterwards to their ultimate destinations, the primary Arteries naturally inoscu- late with-the branches in their course, as with branch- es fiom the Lumbar, the Iliac, Hypogastric, and Epi- gastric Arteries; and when it happens that the Pri- mary Arteries are obliterated or obstructed, a com- municating branch, or communicating branches, na- turally succeed in performing their functions. As magnitude likewise, in various places, is compen- sated by number, we occasionally see two, sometimes- three Spermatic Arteries on the same side, in- stead of one of a larger size. One or two deriving their origin from the Aorta, and the other, or others^ either from a Renal or Capsular branch, or from some other Artery that lies contiguous to the usual course. When they rise high, they have been seen giving branches to the Pancreas, and the Dextral some branches to the Liverthey have also been seen giving out branches to the Duodenum, and generally blanches to the adipose substance surrounding the kidnies ; to the Ureters, and to the Lumbar Glands ; branches that inosculate on the left side with some branches near the Parietes from the smaller Me- senteric ; and branches on the right side that in- osculate with branches of the larger Mesenteric at the Caput Caecum. When they pass the Rings, they Bend blanches to the Spermatic cords and CroJl description of THE ARTERIES. 195 masters ; branches to the Scrotum that inosculate with the Pudics, and on its Septum with one another, and at last, before entering the Testes, numerous branches to the Epidydymides. It has been remarked, that, during their progress, they are rather increased than diminished in dia- meter, which partly may be owing to the additional influx of blood from communicating branches ; partly too to their serpentine flexures obstructing the force and momentum of the blood; while the serpen- tine flexures, and their singular length compared to their size, may be useful for the purposes of seminal secretion. In the Sheep, for instance, where the serpentine flexures are wanting in the Veins, their place is supplied by a Rete Mirabile of small vessels, like what Mr. Carlisle observed in some Arteries of the Lemur Tardigradus, and other animals of slow motion. In the Female, the Spermatic Arteries enter the broad ligaments of the Uterus, where they spread out their branches upon the Ovaria and Fallopian Tubes; sending a few to the round ligaments and the Fundus Uteri, where they inosculate with Uterine branches. ARTERI.E CAPSt’LARES. These Arteries are distributed to the organs called Gapsulce Atrabiliarice, from an idea that tliev li 5A description of the arteries. 196 were Glands that secreted black bile ; Renes Sue- ceniuriati, from an opinion that they assisted the Kidnies in their functions; and Glandule: Supra- renaies, from their lying slernad upon the At- lantal extremities of the kidnies. Whatever be their office, they are proportionally larger in the Foetus than m the Adult, and supplied by Arteries from various sources; from the Coeliac, the Aorta, the Phremcs, the Renals; sometimes from the Lumbars ; and sometimes, says So mmerring, though certainly not according to general analogy, from the Epigastrics (z). They have been ob- served on the right side sending Ramuli to the Duodenum, to the Liver, and to the Hepatic flexure of the Colon; on the left side, to the Mesocolon, the Splenic flexure of the Colon, and the Spleen (a) ; on both sides branches to the Diaphragm, and oc- casionally one of the Spermatic Arteries. As they vary their size with the size of the organ on which they are ramified, their variety and extent of rami- fication will be different at different periods of life ; so that what may seem the trunks at one period, (*) “ Interdum ex Arteria Epigastrica in uno vel utroque “ latere nascuntur;” probably some inosculating branches of the Epigastrics enlarged, and extended to the Capsulae Atra- Tpliarias. (a) See Rader, Fascic. Hi. p. 57.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 197 will appear only the branches at another. It is thus we can explain, why Anatomists describe the same Artery as sometimes the trunk, and sometimes the branch of another Artery ; why Phrenic Arteries are said at times to give out Capsulars, and Cap- sulars in their turn to give out Phrenics. In the Foetus, where the Capsulars are so large in propor- tion, Portal has seen a Capsular branch from the Renal Artery, as large as the Renal Artery itself, and sometimes, he adds, even larger than the Renal (6). AUTERI.E ADIPOS.E. The Kidnies are enveloped in adipose substance, and the Arteries sent to it have thence been named .irlerice Adiposcc. Like the Capsular Arteries, they arise from several different sources, from the Aorta, from the Phrenic, the Renal, Spermatic, Capsular, and (4) To speak of a branch being larger than its Trunk, is not usual, nor is it accurate. But Portal’s words are, “ Cette “ Artere des corps sur-renaux est dans le Foetus pour le moins “ aussi grosse et quelquefois davantage que l’Artere Renale “ qui la foumit; elle diminue de grosseur aprfes la naissance “de l’enfant, de meme que le corps sur-renale, en meme temps “ que l’Art£re Renale s’amplifie ainsi que le rein dans lequel “ elle se distribue.”—Portal Des Arte res lienales. L 6198 A description op the arteries. Lumbar branches. Haller saw an adipose branch from the last Intercostal; a branch that was also exten- sively ramified on several other parts (c). Some of them arc seen occasionally passing from the adipose substance into the Kidnies, and others from the Kid- nies to the adipose substance. arteri^e ureteric,®. The Ureters are the tubes by which the urine is conveyed from the Kidnies to the urinary bladder. Their Arteries are distinguished by the epithet Ure- teric. They receive ramuli from most of the Ar- teries adjacent to their course, from the Aorta, from the Renal, Capsular, the Adipose, Spermatic, the com- mon Ihac, the Hypogastric, and Vesical branches (d). arterue lumbales. These are the Arteries that rise laterally, in the Lumbar region, from the Aorta, to be afterwards dis- tributed upon the Parietes of the Abdomen. In many respects, they resemble the Intercostals rami- (c) See Haller, Fascic. iii. p. 60. (</j Fascic. iii. p: 61 and 62, and Fascic. viii. p. 39.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 1Q9 fied upon the Parietes of the Thorax. They rise similarly from the Aorta, and generally in pairs; though it sometimes happens that two on the same, and two even on the opposite sides, arise together by a common trunk. Like the Intereostals, they send branches to the Vertebral column, the Vertebral tube, and the parts within it (e) ; send branches peri- pherad to the muscles and the Incumbent Integu- ments, turn round by the lateral aspects, and, as they are situated, inosculate with branches of the Sternal Arteries, with lateral branches of the Epigastrics, or with branches from the Circumflex Iliacs. In their course, they regularly communicate with their fellows of the same side, but without dividing like the In- tercostals. Their number varies along with the number of the Lumbar Vertebrae; and even when the number of Vertebrae is regular. Anatomists dif- fer as to the number of the Lumbar Arteries in their mode of reckoning. Those who reckon, among the Intereostals, the branch that follows the Sacral mar- gin of the last rib, have five pairs ; while those who restrict the epithet Intercostal to the branches that run in the Costal interstices, have a pair more. Haller adopts the last mode of reckoning, and has six pairs. These pairs he describes separately, though few of them differ in any obvious or permanent cha- fe) See Intereostals.A-DESCRIPTION of the arteries. 200 “ „ f mn d°rml°(tbe Uie Quod,at,,s Lumborum, and penetrate the Transversus Abdominis. Those that are adjacent inosculate with Capsular and Rena] branches, and with small branches from the Mesenteries, where these are ramified near the Parietes, or Mesenteric ends. The first, according to Haller's reckoning nms dorsad o the Crus of the Diaphragm, which tt sends branches that inosculate with the Phrenics proceeds laterad between the Psoas and the Quad.! ratus, and, turning round with the curvature of the " ’ "atural]y inosculates with the last Intercostal. On the right side, Haller has observed i, sending ranches to the L.ver ; and not only Lieutaud, hi G. Bias, us and C. Bartholin have mentioned Phrenics hom the neighbouring Lumbers. The fourth and fifth give branches to thelliaci Intend, that inosculate w-th branches from the Circumflex Uiacs ; they give also branches to the crests of the Ilia, that inosculate with branches from the Glutcals. The sixth has a character peculiarly its own. It sometimes rises from the common Iliac, from the Hypogastric, from the holumbar; and is sometimes absent, when its ])laCe 15 suPPlied by branches proceeding from a neighbouring Lumbar, from the Iliolumbar, or , oacroJateral.ARTERIES OF THE PELVIS AND SACRAL EXTREMITIES. After supplying the Abdominal Viscera, and the greatest part of the Abdominal Parietes, the Aorta arrives at the last but one of the Lumbar Vertebrae, and there resigning its form and its name, divides at once into three branches: one of them called the Sacromedian, small in diameter, short in its course, and proportionally limited in its ramification ; the other two equal in size, but so large and so long, that few Anatomists have taken them in with the eye or the fancy at one view, contenting themselves with examining their several parts in succession, to which they give names, but without venturing on a name for the whole. Anatomists here might probably have been under the influence of habits previously202 A DESCRIPTION OF the ARTERIES. acquired. The ,w„ lateral bones of the Pelvis al though they correspond to the two Scapula.- ’ are usually considered as a part of the trunk, and in the languages spoken by the people, there is seldom any K Th"PreSS',e °f 'he TW«h- >he ^ - J Z °Z Jhere ls “rtenily a term in the Greek or I„ the Latin, that, strictly or classically, conveys such a meaning. If the word SUcs (a) has been made W„T7’ “iS C,"e% Upon the “‘hority of Galen who has changed the usual and original import. a„d Crm and Cruralis have been made to convey it l2s'PBut° be“e!l artl,0ri'y ‘hi,n ‘hat °f his a ors Bn, mstead of objecting to such an authority “ d, ratlKr 0PPPeal *» i'. in extending the mean.' mg of the term Crural a little farther, and in apply. mg it to whole Artery of the Sacral extremity, from in r™biTrm’,in ,he AOrta’ iK the Tibial branches beyond the knee joint. >i adopting, however, this general term, I mean no, entirely to lay aside those numerous distinct to which Anatomist, have long been accustomed In examining minutely a long Cain composed of . great number of links, we ought no, merely to have a correct idea of the whole, but also of every separate JiT* l°Galen'imMn «*>.203 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. link that is of importance. After mentioning, there- fore, that the Sacral extremity is supplied entirely by one Artery, which I name the Crural, I shall de- scribe its several divisions, and their ramifications, under different heads, not as separate and distinct Arteries, as is usually done, but as different portions of the same Artery. Its first portion from the Aorta, running on the last of the Lumbar Vertebrae, to the junction of the Ilium and Os Sacrum, where it generally sends of the first large branch, I shall call the Lumbar. It is usually termed the Common Iliac Artery. Its second portion, extending from the junction of the Ilium and Sacrum, and along the Ilium, till it passes under the ligament of Poupart into the Groin, I shall name the Ii,iac, It is usually called the Ex* lernal Iliac Artery. Its third portion, where it lies in the Groin, and sends off the Inguinal pudics, if we are to admit such a division, may be termed the Inguinal. It is usual- ly denominated the Common Femoral Artery. Its fourth portion, extending from the Groin along the Tibial aspect of the Femur to the tendon of the Adductor Magnus, where it ultimately leaves the Tibial aspect, might well enough be named the Flmoro-tibial. It is generally named the Super- ficial Femoral Artery,A description op the arteries. 204, Its fifth portion, from the place where it passes thiough the tendon of the Adductor Magnus, to where it arrives between the heads of the Tibia and Fibula, may be denominated the Femoro-popliteal. Its usual name is the Popliteal Artery. The fifth portion regularly divides into two large branches, to be afterwards ramified on the leg and foot, a Tibialis Antica, and a Tibialis Postica°; al- though neither of them run, excepting near its distal extremity, either before or behind the Tibia, but along its side, and sometimes nearer the Fibula than Tibia. They are the last of the large branches employed in circulating the blood of the Aorta. If it were necessary to employ epithets, implying of themselves that the parts signified were certain portions of the Crural Artery, I should suggest the following epithets: Cruri-Lumbar, Cruri-Iliac, Cruri- Inguinal, Cruri-Femoral, Cruri-Popliteal. arteria sacro-mediana, seu Sacra Media. The Azygous Artery, nearly as large as one of the Lumbars, runs along the Mesial line of the OsA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 205 Sacrurn, and not unfrequently continues its course to near the extremity of the Os Coccygis. During the course, it sends off laterally undulated branches to inosculate with branches from, the Sacro-laterals ; and branches to the Rectum, that sometimes, when large, extend as far as the Urinary bladder; meeting at last with the two Sacro-laterals, where they generally converge to form an arch on the Os Coccygis, the three together form the convexity of this arch, send branches to the extremity of the Coccyx, and the parts adjacent, which are more or less extensively ra- mified in proportion to their size. r Y $ ARTERIA CRURAUS, Lumbar Portion, or Iliaca Communis. From the relative situation of the Aorta and Vena Cava, the left Crural, in the Lumbar region, con- tinues on the left of the Crural vein ; while the right, to arrive at a similar situation on its own side, cros- ses the Cava on the Sternal aspect. This portion seldom gives out any branches during its course, ex- cepting ramuli to the Lumbar Glands, and the Ure- ters, very seldom a Lumbar, Renal, or Spermatic Artery. At its termination, it always sends off a large branch, that, rising from its Dorso-mesial20 6 a DESCRIPTION op THE ARTERIES. aspect, runs either near or *i ^ Ilium and Sacrum ' Tina T ! j“"C*i“ °f the Hypogat'ric but wi.h ^ “ t0™«» termed the ZTCTt^ seldom if ever extend I • • !/P°gaslric is ARTERIA HYPo-ILIACA, seu Hypogasirica. The Hypo-ihac, running tforarf and dwferf soon ays aside the form of a trunk, by dividing into many ^ordinate branches. The largest of these are the Gluteal and Ischiadic; and from these two or m t'y from the trunk, issue the branches distinguish-' r«fcL/ leJ^etS; n™lumba’-> Sacrolateral, Uterine, esical, Umbihcal, Hemorrhoidal, Pudic and not infrequently the Obturatoria. * d Hiolumbalis, CrmlS a rmet'mCS r' 0m ‘he Lumbar ef‘he iistributeaT’i™"5 'J> the Pso®> and 1 h mncJles ^ these muscJes, the Uiacits207 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Interims, and Transversus Abdominis. It anasto- tomoses with the Circumflex Iliac, and forms a curve immediately within, and nearly parallel to the crest of the Ilium. It sometimes gives ramuli that enter the Foramina of the Os Sacrum, always inosculates with branches from the Lumbars, and sometimes gives off the last of the Lumbars. It is the Iliaca parva of Winslow, Lieutaud, and others. Haller thought the term Iliac too frequently repeated, and chose to call it the Iliolumbar (6). Cb) This name is certainly an improvement, as the young Anatomist is apt to be embarrassed with an Iliaca Parva, an Iliaca Communis, an Iliaca Externa, an Iliaca Interna, an Iliaca Postica, and an Iliaca Circumflexa, Antica, or Externa Minor. At the same time, the confusion arises not so much from the repetition of the word Iliac, as from the careless use'of the epithets External, 'Internal, Anterior, and Posterior. What is called the External Iliac, is certainly as much within the Ilium, as the Hypogastric or Internal Iliac. The Gluteal Artery, which Haller has named Iliaca Postica, forgetting his reasons against the repetition of the term Iliac, extends only to the dorsum of the Ilium through the medium of its branches. The name too seems to imply, that there is likewise an Iliaca Antica, the name given by Portal to the Iliac Portion of the Crural Artery, by Boyer to the Circumflex Iliac, or the Iliaca Externa Minor of Schaurschmid.—Haller, Eascic. v. p. 9. Dreading again the repetition of the term Iliac, Haller has given to the Circumflex'Iliac, the epithet Abdominalis, as if it were more an Artery of the Abdomen than the Coeliac, or any of the two Mesenteries, than any of the Lumbars, or the two208 A description or THE arteries. arteria glutea. The largest branch of the Hypo-iliac passes be- tween the two great trunks of the Ischiadic nerve and leaves the Pelvis at the highest part of the Iliac notch, to be ramified principally upon the muscles that are named Gluteal In its passage outward it sends a branch to the Os Ilium, and has scarcely emerged, when it divides into large branches, each of them taking a different direction from that of the tiunk. These branches, in different places, are ob- served to inosculate afterwards by ramuli with one another, and approaching the confines of the Glutei, Epigastrics. Tins branch, he observes, inosculates with an haca Antwa Minor, (Fagcic. v. p. 9.) from which it is evident, t hislhaca Antiea Minor is not the Circumflex ; probably the branch to winch he alludes in the first paragraph of Note 3 m the same page, an occasional branch, that rises very near o the Circumflex, and under the Integuments, ascends over the spine of the Ilinm, and upon the lateral parts of the Abdo- men ; sometimes as far as the eighth rib, he had seen it at times taking its origin from the Deep Femoral. There are few students who can easily comprehend, how the two epithets External and Internal, can strictly be applied to the same !nv H 7’ ^ Wh°’ ^ th£Se 'Pithet,, can form any th„,ghke an accurate notion of the relative situations of the Hemorrhoidals, which are all within the Pelvis.A DESCRIPTION Or THE ARTERIES. 209 to inosculate also in a similar manner with the neighbouring Arteries; some of them inosculating in this way, near the crest of the Ilium, with the last of the Lumbars; some on the Dorsal aspect of the Sacrum with the Sacro-laterals ; some upon the Gluteus Magnus and Pyriformis, with the Ischiadic; some upon the Gluteus Medius, and near the Aceta- bulum, with the External Circumflex of the Femur; and some, near the origin of the Sartorius, with the Circumflex Iliac. The Iliolumbar, the Obturatoria, a Sacro-lateral, the Pelvien Pudic, and some Haemorrhoidals, are not unfrequently among its branches, before it leaves the cavity of the Pelvis. ARTERIA ISCHIADICA, The next in size to the Gluteal; but more in the general direction of the trunk, issues from the Pelvis between the Pyriformis and the Gemelli, and, like the last, immediately under the Gluteus Magnus. Its usual course, while it preserves the appearance of a trunk, is towards the space between the Tro- chanter Major of the Femur, and the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium ; but rather inclining to the Tuberosity.Sio a description of tiie arteries. It sends branches to the Pyriformis, the Gluteus Medn,s the t*o Sacro-ishiadic ligaments, the Coccy- geus, the Levator Ani, the Gluteus Magnus, the Sacium and Coccyx; the small branches to the Sacrum and Coccyx, communicating with branches from the Sacro-laterals on the dorsal aspect, and oc- casionally penetrating through the Foramina, or by the stdes of the Sacrum and Coccyx into the Pelvis here is no Artery, not excepting the Pudic, which is often its branch, and which takes for a while a similar course that so conveniently supplies the Gemelh, the Quadratus Femoris, or the Ischiadic nerve, while that remains in the neighbourhood of the Pelvis. A branch accompanying this nerve a part o its way, and others accompanying the-Gluteus Magnus to its insertion, have been seen inosculating with some of the branches of the highest Perforant and with branches from the Internal Circumflex in the region of the Femur. 1 he branches ramified round the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium, naturally inosculate with branches lorn the Pudic, and distribute ramuli to the Ten- dinous origins of the Semitendinosus, the Semimem- branosus, and to the long head of the Biceps ; while the branches towards the Articular Capsule, Ob- turator Externus, and the Acetabulum, as naturally inosculate with branches from the Internal Circum- flex and Obturatoria.A description of the arteries. 211 Before it leaves the Pelvis, it generally sends off Vesical branches; sometimes the branch which Haller has called the Middle Hemorrhoidal; in rare cases, the Obturatoria, and frequently the Pudic. In more than one instance, I have seen the Pudic arising from it, after leaving the Pelvis, and nearly equal to it in size; an origin of the Pudic not unfre- quently observed by Haller (c). ARTEMJB sacro-laterales. Two small Arteries, that run along the two lateral rows of Foramina on the Sternal aspect of the Os Sacrum. They send branches to the neighbouring nerves; branches mesiad, to meet the branches that are running laterad from the Sacro-median ; branch- es to the Vertebras; branches through the Foramina of the Sacrum to the Cauda Equina ; and branches, passing through the Dorsal Foramina, to the Sacro- lumbalis and Longissimus Dorsi, where they meet with ramuli that derive their origin from the Gluteal and the Ischiadic. Having gradually been conver- (c) “ Quando Pudenda Circumflexa. s. communis intra Pel- “ vim at> Ischiadiea non seeessit, non rarum est, earn extra “ Pelvim demum ab ea onam fuisse.”—Fascic. tv. p. 35. Sec also p. 30. M212 A DESCRIPTION’ OF THE ARTERIES. ging through the whole of their course, the two at last generally meet and form the arch already de- scribed. Sometimes one of the two is wanting; sometimes there are more than one on a side, when they are always smaller and of less extent, in propor- tion to their number. They sometimes inosculate with the last of the Lumbars; and not unfrequently send ramuli to the Glands lying dorsad of the Iliac Portion of the Crural. Their origin is sometimes in the Hypo-iliac, sometimes in one, and sometimes in another of its branches ; but very rarely in the Lumbar Portion of the Crural Artery (d). ARTER1AE UTERINAE. Flexuous branches ramified on the Uterus, and varying their size with the state of the organ, as it enlarges during impregnation, or as it contracts after (tf) Haller, speaking of these branches, says, “ A trunco “ vero Iliac® ut J. B. Winslowo obtigit nonduui ortas fuisse “ vidi.”—Fascic. iv. p. 28. The passage of Winslow, to which he refers, is in § 229, where, treating of the branches from the Lumbar Portion of the Crural Artery, he says, there are few of any note: “ excepte quelques Arterioles qui vont a l’Os Sa- “ crum, et dont quelques unes entrent par les Trous Supe- “ rieures de cet os, et s’y distribuent comme les Sacrecs."213 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. parturition. Sometimes one., and sometimes more on the same side, they extend their branches occa- sionally as far as the Vagina and Urinary bladder ; inosculate with their fellows of the opposite side, and with branches proceeding from the Spermatics. ARTERI.-E VESICALES. The branches ramified on the Urinary bladder, are the remains of the two Umbilicals; some branches from the Uterine Arteries, if in the female; branches directly from the Hypo-iliac, or from some of its branches ramified on the Rectum ; at times, small branches from the Epigastrics reflected sacrad from the Umbilicus ; and not unfrequently a branch or two from the Obturatoria, extending to the Prostate and Vesiculae Seminales (e). ARTERIyE UMBILICALES. Two small branches on each side of the Urinary bladder, and in different individuals of different ex- tents of ramification. The directions of their trunks, is from the neck of the bladder to its Fundus, and (?) See Haller, Fatcic. iv. /> 18, 39. M 2A description of the arteries. -although they arise from different Hypo-iliacs, are generally viewed and described together. In the adult, they are properly Vesical; but retain the title and rank of an office, which at one time they held in the Foetus. At that period, they were among the principal Arteries of the system, essential to its nourishment, its circulation, its existence. They appeared then to be continuations of the two large trunks, into which the Aorta divides in the Loins; they passed beyond the Fundus of the bladder to the Umbilicus, beyond the Umbilicus to the Placenta, and, without measuring their spiral windings around the large Vein of the Cord, were longer than the whole body itself. The Crural Arteries at that time, scarcely a fourth part of their size, appeared but as branches arising from their sides; while the Hypo-iliacs were blanches also, but inferior in size, arising from the convexities of their curve, where they turned by the side of the Urinary bladder at- lantad, and sternad to the Umbilicus. The bladder itself was different too in point of situation ; it was not then sunk into the Pelvis, as in the adult, and its Fundus reached to near the Umbilicus. In one of my Vascular preparations of the Foetus, which I ou^e to the kindness and politeness of a pupil, there is only one Umbilical Artery ascending on the Dorsal aspect of the bladder, and seemingly a con- tinuation of the Aorta.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. M 3 521 i» ARTERI.E H.EMORRHOlDiC. These are branches distributed to the Rectum, deriving a name from their situation, cither at or near to the place where blood is discharged from Haemorrhoidal tumours. A morbid appearance con- ferring here, like one near the Basilar aspect of the Tongue, an epithet of distinction on the neighbour- ing Arteries. They are very irregular in size, origin, number, and extent of ramification. They are seen springing from the Hypo-iliac, the Sacro-median, the Gluteal, Ischiadic, the Vesical, Vaginal, and Pudic branches. Anatomists arrange them into internal, middle, and external, not with a reference to what is central or peripheral in the Rectum, but with a re- ference to its two extremities, and the space interven- ing. In this sense, the most internal are those which arise from the Smaller Mesenteric, and the most ex- ternal those which arise from the Common Pudic. What Haller calls the Middle Haemorrhoidal, is a branch which he not unfrequently saw, running on that part of the Rectum where it meets the Vagina, or Urinary bladder ; a branch extending its ramifications to the Urinary bladder, the Prostate Gland, the Levator Ani, the Sphincter Ani, and the Urethra; not regular in its origin, nor always prc- ient.u A description op the arteries. • PUDICA PELVIENA (f), A branch distributed to the Sexual organs, rises singly from the Hypo-iliac, or along with some one of its branches, and often along with the Ischiadic, from which it is afterwards observed to separate, sometimes without, but more frequently within the Pelvis. If it separate without, the common trunk, or some other Artery, furnishes the branches which it usually gives to the parts within. If it separate within, it still accompanies the Ischiadic out of the Pelvis. What is peculiar and singular in its course, is, that it always returns into the Pelvis between the Sacro-ischiadic ligaments, attaches it- self to the Mesial aspect of the Ischial Tuberosity, piotetted by a process of the larger ligament against any lateral pressure from the Rectum, continues this couise close to the Ramus of the Ischium and Pubis, till it reaches the Symphysis, when it turns sudden- ly on the Dorsum of the Penis, stretching along it, under the Integuments, and parallel to its fellow, as (f) Th's Artery lias been named simply Pudenda, some- times Pudenda Communis, Pudenda Circumflexa, Pudenda In- terna, Pudenda Media, Pudenda Externa, I have here dis- tinguished it by the epithet Pelvienn, the Pudic from the Pelvis, which can never be applied to the Pudic branches ori- ginating in the Groin., A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 217 for as the Gians, to which and the Prepuce, it is Seen distributing its ultimate branches. In every part of this long and circuitous course, it is sending branches to the parts adjacent; before it leaves the cavity of the Pelvis, it is often seen giving branches to the Rectum and Urinary bladder; not unfrequently to the Seminal Vesicles, the Pros- tate Gland, the Obturator Interims, and to the Vagina, if in the female. From where it emerges to where it returns, it as- sists the Ischiadic either by increasing its usual re- sources, or supplying some occasional deficiencies. In common therefore with the Ischiadic, it sends branches to the Pyriformis, the Gluteus Magnus, the Coccyx, the Gemelli, the Ischial Tuberosity, the Biceps, Triceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembra- nosus, where these are attached to it. If not sent by the Ischiadic, it transmits a branch along the Gemelli to the Trochanter, from whence extending its ramifications in the vicinity, it communicates with the Internal Circumflex and Obturatoria. Having passed the ligaments, it sends additional branches to the Rectum, called External Haemon** hoidals; branches to the Levator Ani, the Sphincter Ani, and the surrounding adipose substance. Run- ning sternad and atlanlad, close to the Rami of the Ischium and Pubis, along the side of the Perineum, it gives out branches to the neighbouring muscles, M 4>,ig) Fustic. iv. [>. 32. U18 A description of the arteries. the Tninsversus Perinei, Accelerates UAue, and the Erector; branches to the Corpus Cavemosum Urethrae j branches to the Scrotum, that ultimately inosculate with the Inguinal Pudics, with the Sper- matics, the Reflex branch accompanying the Cord trom the Epigastric, and with their fellows of the op- posite side; a branch or branches to the Corpus Cavernosum Penis' running longitudinally, and near 11C axiS’t0 the Eui'thcr extremity, filling the cells by numerous ramuli in the time of erection, and com- mumcating through the Septum with similar ra- muli from the opposite side.. In cases where this Artery is obstructed, originally deficient, or much exhausted by its previous branch- os, the Corpora Cavernosa, and the Dorsum of the Penis, receive a supply from neighbouring branches. Haller observed a Vesical branch from the Obtura- toria passing under the Symphysis Pubis, and in- osculating with the Pudic branches of the Penis (g). At other times, he saw a branch from the same Ar- iery, covered by the Obturator Internus, passing un- der the Symphysis, inosculating with the Pudic branches of the Penis, and entering together the Corpora Cavernosa (g). Twice he saw the Obtura- toria furnishing the Pudic branch of the Penis (g); a circumstance, he adds, observed by Eieutaud, andA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 219 mentioned by Columbus, as the usual distribution (/i). Besides these branches from the Obturatoria, other branches from a different source, running on the con- fines of the Rectum and the Bladder, have been seen emerging under the Symphysis, and running along the Dorsum of the Penis. A Vesical branch, from what Haller calls the Middle Haemorrhoidal, is often continued along the Prostate into the Dorsal Artery of the Penis (i), the Hontense Externc of Winslow, the principal branch of the Pudic Artery, and some- (A) Haller, Fascic. p. 32. The language of Lieutaud al- ludes only to the branch runuing ou the Dorsum of the Penis. “ L’Arttre, qui marche sur le dos de la verge; biens assez “ souvent de 1’Obturatrice.” See his description of the Ob- turatoria. The language of Columbus in the last page but one of Lib. vii. is exceedingly vague, and I think not correct; he describes the Pudic branches of the Penis, as rising regularly from the Obturatoria;, after they have passed the Foramina Tkyroidea. “ Du® vero alia; (sc. Arteri®) transeunt per Fora- “ mina sita in osse Pubis, coxendicisque, e quibus, quum pri- “ mum abdomen ipsum egressse sunt Arteri®, mittuntur ad “ duo corpora Penis, qua: a summo ad imum feruntur, in ijsque “ in ramos abeunt Atque h® ill®, ill® inquam sunt Ar- “ teri®, quibus erectio mental® accepta ferenda estj quam “ rem nemo, quod sciam, nostris temporibus, neque ex anti- “ quis cognovit, aut scripsit.” Haller, probably, in alluding to this passage of Columbus, had trusted to some reference in his note-book, that did not bring the full and precise import of its meaning to his recollection. (i) See Haller, Fascic. iv. p. 37. M 5A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 220 times a branch of the Hypo-iliac runs in the angle that is formed between the Bladder and the Rectum, distributes branches to the neck of the Bladder, to the Prostate and Vesicular Seminales in the male, and at last emerging under the Symphysis, is the Artery of the Penis (/;). The branch that accompa- nied the Ischiadic, was seen to terminate in branch- es to the Rectum, the Sphincter Ani, the Bulb of the Urethra, the fat, the Integuments, the Corpora Cavernosa, and as we must suppose, from what he says afterwards, at the commencement of the Corpora Cavernosa. Nay, Haller has observed, that all the more ancient Anatomists describe the Pudic as pas- (fc) “ Le second Rameau principal, appelle eommunement “ Artere Honteuse externe, se jette dans l’uniou de la Vessie 1 et du Rectum, va dans l’homme aux Vesicules Seminales, au “ Col de la Vessie, aux Prostates, et aux parties voisines du “ Rectum. “ Ensuite il passe sous l’Os Pubis, a cote d’une Veine cou- “ siderable, qui est directement sous la Sympliyse de cetOs, et 41 coule le long du Penis, entre cette Veine et un Nerf, en se “ distribuant en chemin aux Corps Cavemeux, et en communi- “ quant avec la Petite Honteuse qui vient de l’Artere Crurale. “ Ce second Rameau de la grande Honteuse sort quelque- “ fois separement de l’Hypogastrique, principalement dans le " sexe, ou elle se distribue par plusieurs Ramifications aux “ cotes de l’Uterus, et communiquent avec les Art£res Sper- "■ matiques vers les Franges de la Trompe de Fallope, et aux “ parties voisines du V3gin, &c.” Winslow, Trait* desart^res, § 249, 250, 251.221 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. sing under the Symphysis Pubis, and along the Prostate (/) ; and Mr. Burns has seen it three times taking this course in the male subject (in). The cases must be rare, and extremely rare, where the Artery of the Penis originates in one of the Pudics of the Groin. Haller had never seen an in- stance of the kind, and notwithstanding the testi- mony of C. Bauhin, J. Veslingius, G. Rolfink, T. Bartholin, Diemberbrocck, and Ravins, could not easily believe that such an instance ever had oc- curred (»). With regard to their assertions, I must confess that I feel not so sceptically inclined as he. The Pudics from the Groin are in the vicinity, and have long been known to inosculate directly, or indirectly, with the Pelvien Pudic. Haller had observed the Obturatoria, and other vessels from under the Sym- physis, supplying the Penis. Supposing such ves- sels might happen to be wanting, or be casually ob- structed, would not some of the other vessels adja- cent, naturally succeed in performing the office; and (l) Haller, Faseit. iv. p. 37. (in) Burns’ Varieties of the Larger Arteries. («) “ Arteriam vero Penis (autclitoridis) a Pudenda extema “ venisse ut plurimi scriptores habent. Id omnino nun- “ quam vidi, neque facile credam visum fuisse.”—Fascic. h\ p. 37.** v A description OP the ARTERIES. did he not afterwards himself observe, an Inguinal 1 udic extending a branch along the Penis as far a* the Prepuce (o). There i. not an Artery perhaps m thc bod^ from which the blood has not access to every other Artery, and to every other part, however i istant, without passing through the Aorta. I make not this remark to inspire any immoderate confi- dence m such communications, when Arteries are tied in cases of Aneurism; the number and the size of inosculating branches, and the distance to which the blood is to be carried through the lateral chan- nels, must, in these circumstances, be all taken into due consideration. The cases where one of the En- eephahes fpj, the Inguinal Portion of a Crural Artery (9), and a part of the Aorta beyond the Arch (r), have been found obliterated, are well cal- culated to inspire such hopes, while to a mind that is eager and sanguine in its expectations, it will naturally occur, that there are many thousands of vessels scarcely visible to the naked eye, that do not enter into any description, that meet by innumerable inosculations, and that often refuse to admit our injections, although they freely circulate blood in (°) Fascic. v. p. 9. col. 2. (V) Note, p. 59. (?) Scarpa on Aneurism, ch, sc. J 13. lr) Ibid, chap. jv. § a.223 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. the living body. Were these Arteries only to en- large, and to open new channels for the blood that flowed in the trunks, as they had frequently been found to do, where trunks have been obliterated, con- tracted, or obstructed, why might not an Artery be tied in Aneurism, without hesitation and without ap- prehension ? That the lateral vessels, in such cases, have often been enlarged, and been found adequate in performing the duty of the larger vessels, cannot be denied. But an object of some importance to Surgery, and the reader will here pardon the digression, would be, to ascertain in what periods the gradual enlargement of the lateral vessels in different situations may be accomplished. The instances of persons who have had obliterations of the larger Arteries, do not war- rant us suddenly to tie these vessels in an operation. When the whole process is committed to Nature, the larger vessels may contract only in proportion as the smaller branches enlarge ; for the change has often taken place insensibly. We are not therefore merely to consider the extent of the change, but the time and manner in which the change may be effected. Nature may provide against a disease that ap- proaches gradually, and sink under one of inferior violence that attacks by surprise; and hence we have often occasion to see that it is not always theA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 224- extent of an injury, but often the suddenness with which it is inflicted, that proves fatal. In varying the ramifications of Arteries, to pre- serve entire the functions of the system, we know in general, that nature is prompter in one species of ani- mal than in another, in the young, than in the old, in the healthy and vigorous, than in the sickly and feeble But a precise knowledge of her powers, and her modes of proceeding in these operations, is still to be acquired. At the same time it must be confessed, that we have obtained much information on this sub- ject from those cases, where, in order to prevent the evils of Aneurism, the Cephalic Arterv, the Axillary Portion of the Brachial Artery, and the Iliac Portion of the Crural Artery, have been tied with success, and without any means previously employed to en- large the channels that were to succeed in performing their duties. In these cases, the events have shown what the accommodating power of the system in certain parts, in certain states of the constitution, and during cer- tain periods of life, has been able to accomplish : ^ hatmay do in different parts, in different states of the constitution, and in more advanced periods of life, remains still to be a subject of inquiry. In de- clining years, or declining strength, its efforts are but feeble; while in those instances, where it has«23 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. been able to provide a remedy against the obstruc- tions of the larger Arteries, it seems to have done it by previously and gradually enlarging the vessels that were in future to perform the functions. This is not exactly the method that is followed when we hastily proceed to tie an Artery, without a previous attention to the channels in which its blood is after- wards to flow. A limb may be lost, and I venture to say many have been lost, where the accommodating power of the system, from want of ability, or from want of time, could not possibly provide against the effects of sudden obstruction. An imitation of the natural process, by previously compressing the trunk of the Artery, and gradually enlarging the lateral vessels, before the operation of tying the ligature, has frequently been attended with obvious advantage. As to the circumstances which ought to regulate the extent and continuance of this compression ; where it is practicable and where not; when and where it would be injurious; and when alone it would be capable of performing a cure with- out the necessity of an operation, the reader will receive much information from Scarpa’s valuable treatise on Aneurisms, and from the notes of his in- genious and accurate translator Mr. Wishart. We know not yet the causes that produce, and the causes that prevent the total obliteration of the Ar- tery, and its several branches between the ligatureMG A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. °“r, Aneurism., Sac ; and know still less how far the bhtcration extends, when an Artery is tied on ac- count of an Aneurism in one of its branches. The success of tying the Subclavian Portion of the B.aclual Artery, has not hitherto proved very e„. couraging. No other Artery that has yet been tied 12:ZTran’°lh,the - h a number of important organs, as the Par Va. fh A n T ntoC°StaI’ the Doscendens Non,' he Axillary Plexus, the Subclavian Vein, the In’ t rna Jugular, and Cava Superior; „„ other Artery ’ ‘ T Jet bee,‘ *ied' out, in so small an ex! of space, such a number of large and important ranches, or so irregular as to the precise point of is JIT 1 n° 0ti'er A‘'tery -vct has been tied, IS SO httle susceptible of being raised from its situa. , and no other that has yet been lied, is found in a direction so different from the muscles by w hich IS covered or a situation where the incision can be less extended, or the operation more apt to be im. I tl 1 ' r. ,ri0t“J11S of SUch 0 hone as tile Clavicle n the dead body, this hinderance, arising from the and th 'tS m“SCieS’ m”y be ““y ""loved, and wnhout any chance of recurring. the livinJ y, where the incision must always be long in proportion ,0 its depth, the remote consequent of the operation are as much to be dreaded, and per-A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 227 haps more, than the immediate effects of the knife, if in the hands of a dexterous Surgeon. It is customary, in cases where operations turn out fatally, to make the Surgeon responsible only for the immediate, and Nature for all the remoter conse- quences. The practice, however, is founded neither in justice nor candour. It is fortunate when the Surgeon is able to prove, that, had she been entirely left to herself, the event might have proved equally adverse. She cannot be held responsible for eon- sequences immediate or remote, that arise entirely from a situation into which she is driven by compul- satory force, and in which she is obliged to act from necessity. Mr. Cooper of Guy’s hospital, to whom Surgery has been much indebted, has, with a view to illus- trate farther the effects of ligature upon large Ar- teries, made a number of new and very interesting experiments on dogs; and, in one of these, tied the Abdominal part of the Aorta, and shown that its functions may be performed by communicating branches, and the trunk obliterated only to a small distance from the ligature (.S'). He had also a view, in these experiments, to ascertain, whether or not, in tying a number of the larger Arteries, and making their blood to flow through numerous and minute (») Medico Chirurgical Transactions for 181“?.228 A description of tiie arteries. branches, he could affect the habits of the animal, and render them somewhat similar to those of the Lemur Tardigradus, and other animals of slow mo- tion, in which Mr. Carlisle had regularly observed the blood of the extremities circulating through nu- merous and minute vessels. But such an effect could have been expected, only at the time when the la- teral vessels were imperfectly performing their new kind of duty, not after they were capable of fur- nishing the parts with as liberal a supply, as they had been accustomed to receive from the trunk. W hatever it be that organizes the animal or vege- table, it appears always to operate on a plan pre- scribed to its species, and, with change of circum- stances, has always a power of more or less limited extent, to modify its organs, for the regular exercise of those functions that characterize and distinguish its species. Had the minute divisions of the Ar- teries, observed by Mr. Carlisle, been destroyed by ligature, and new Arteries succeeded to the office, it is reasonable to infer, on the principles of analogy, that the new Arteries would have performed the same kind of duty that had been performed by the original ramifications. I have always considered these observations of Mr. Carlisle on slow moving animals, and Willis’ re- marks on the Rete Mirabile, as highly important. 1 hey diiect the attention of the Anatomist to a scriesA DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. 22$ ef relations that have been overlooked ; but which might reflect considerable light upon Physiology, if carefully traced, on the principles of induction, through the various genera and species of animals * **. ARTERIA CRURALIS, Iliac Portion, or, lliaca Externa. This Portion of the Crural Artery is found on the Mesial aspect of the Psose, on the Lateral aspect of the Crural Vein; occasionally gives out a few Ramuli to these muscles, the coats of the Vein, and the neighbouring Glands ; but seldom any branches of note, till near its termination at the Crural Arch. At that place, resting on the Psoas and Ili- acus Internus where these arc united, the Crural Vein situated mesiai, the Nerve later ad, and each surrounded, as well as the Absorbents in their vici- nity, with a somewhat more than usual proportion of Cellular membrane (<) it sends off, as its regular branches, the Epigastric and Circumflex Iliac ; as * See Philosophical Transactions, pt. 1.1800, andpt. 1. 1804. It) “ Multa hie ubique et longa cellulositas Arteriam, venara “ nervosque sodales irretit.”—Halier, Fascic. v. p. 8. “ Truncrus ** femoralis pergit per Uiacum incedere, irretitus plurima du- “ riuscula cellulositate.”—lbid,p. 10.230 A DESCRIPTION of the arteries. occasional brandies, the Obinratoria and Profund,, remoi is, but the last very seldom. arteria epigastrica. Rises peripherad of the Peritoneum, and mesiad nd dorsad of that orifice where the Somatic enters e anetes; ascends from its origin allantad and meSmd’ at betu'een the Peritoneum and Trans- versus Abdominis, then, between the Peritoneum and Rectus Abdominis, and lastly, between the Rectus nd its Sheath, advancing onward till it reaches the region called Epigastric. At its commencement, it sometimes descends be- fore it descends («), and as it is regularly giving out nches during its course, it often affords small branches to the Inguinal Glands ; regularly branches running vicstad towards the Symphysis, spreading on the parts m the vicinity, and sometimes extending to the Urinary Bladder. Among these, a branch or ranches to the round ligament, or Spermatic Cord. ie branch to the ligament is sometimes partly re- flected on the Uterus; the branch to the cord, dis- « XT' n°TnqUam intGr dUaS SOCiaS descendit pnus, qUam ascendat.” Halter, Fascic. v. J, 8. Sec ale W Vur'etie° Larger Arteries.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 2,31 tributed partly to the Cremaster, on the parts near the Symphysis Pubis, on the Scrotum, Dartos, some- times on the Tunica Vaginalis and Testis, and always inosculates with the Spermatic, and with some of the Pudics. As it advances, it continues to give out other brandies from its Mesial aspect, that inosculate with their fellows of the opposite side, near the Linea Alba; numerous branches from its Lateral aspect, that inosculate with branches from the Circumflex Iliac, the IHo-!umbar, and, when farther advanced, with branches from the Lumbars. Among the branches from its Mesial aspect, is one so large, that Haller and Murray describe it as the trunk (v). This branch ascends aLlantad. and mesiad to the Umbi- licus, where it meets with a branch from the Sternal Artery, and inosculates with its fellow of the op- posite side; from the place of their meeting, they send branches to the cord, some accompanying the Vein, to the Liver, and inosculating with other branches from the Sternal on the broad ligament; some de- scending along the Arteries towards the Bladder, and communicating with branches from the Vesicals. What appears in general the trunk, ascends more directly near to the lateral edge of the Rectus in its (v) Haller, Fascic. v. p. 8. The description here is adopt- ed by Murray, but does not correspond with the figure which Haller hag afterwards given in his sixth Fasciculus, Tab. I.** A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. central aspect, distributing, in its course, branches to the Rectus, the Transversus Abdominis, and Ob* liquus Internus, inosculating freely under the Rectus with a lateral division of the Sternal Artery, by lateral branches with most of the Lumbars, and by branches that ascend with two or three of the last Intercostals. As to the precise point of its origin, it is sometimes higher, and sometimes lower in the Iliac Portion of the Crural Artery; sometimes it rises by a common trunk with the Obturatoria ; sometimes again by a common trunk with «the Circumflex Iliac (w). Mr. Burns has seen it taking its origin from the Femoral Artery, and from the Superficial Femoral Artery (x). Br. Monro from the Deep Femoral, and from the r emoral along with one of the External Pudics fy). By the Epigastric taking its origin from the Iliac Portion of the Crural Artery, and meeting the Sternal (:t>) Morbid Anatomy by Dr. Monro, Jim. p. 426. (*> Burns’ Varieties of the Larger Arteries, fy) Or. Monro, Jun. has requested me here to correct the error that has crept into his work, where it is said. p. 426, that the Epigastric sometimes arises from the Pudic Artery. In dried preparations of the .Sacral extremities, where the Arteries are retracted, the Epigastric generally appears to arise e\ond the ligament of P.apart in the region of the Groin, re- presenting that species of variety where it originates in'the Common Femoral.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 233 from the Subclavian Portion of the Brachial, an addi- tional communication is formed between the branches of the Atlantal and Sacral extremities. By this communication, there is also a kind of peculiar con- nection between the Sexual organs and the Mammae, by which Physiologists have endeavoured to explain their mutual sympathies. From these pairs of Ar- teries running near to the Mesial Plane, on the Sternal aspect, and from the Aorta distributing its branches from the Mesial Plane at the Dorsal aspect, the sides are supplied from opposite sources, and therefore when a part of the Aorta is obstructed, or is quite obliterated, these Arteries are ready, with other communicating branches on the sides, to assist the Aorta, and supply its deficiencies. 1LIACA CIRCUMFLEXA, or, Abdominalis Halleri, Rises sometimes opposite to the Epigastric, ge- nerally after it, commonly near it, and sometimes along with it by a'common trunk; it proceeds from this origin allow tad and lalerad, to turn round by the crest of the Ilium on the central aspect; near t»A DESCRIPTION of the arteries. 234 the highest of the two Anterior Spinous Processes ; it passes through the Transversus Abdominis and between that and the Obliquus Internus, continues to follow the curvature of-the crest, until it arrive at its highest point, when it stretches more directly aU lantad, to inosculate with branches of the Sternal Artery, and with some branches from the last In- tercostals. The branches it gives off in the progress of its course, are small branches to the Inguinal Glands; some- times a branch, or sometimes branches, spreading to- wards the Symphysis Pubis, the Cremaster muscle, and Spermatic Cord. The branch to the Cord oc- casionally descending to the Tunica Vaginalis, and inosculating with branches from the Pudic and Sper- matic; blanches to the Psoas and Iliacus Internus, and a large branch winding round by the circum- ference of the Iliacus, till it meet and inosculate with a branch proceeding from the Ilio-lumbar; blanches ascending allantad and mesiacl, to meet with branches from the Epigastric; and other branches ascending atlantad and lalerud, to meet with branches from the Gluteal and the Lumbar Arteries. The proportions of magnitude between some of the larger branches of this Artery, are subject to varieties. Hence sometimes one, and sometimes another may apf ear to be the trunk. Among the235 A DESCRIPTION OF T1IE ARTERIES. branches that run inesiad to inosculate with branches from the Epigastric, Mr. Burns has seen one ex- tending in a line between the highest of the two Anterior Spinous Processes and the Umbilicus ; and of such a size, as almost to annihilate the other branch that accompanies the crest of the Os Ilium. This branch, he observes, would certainly be in dan- ger in performing what is called Paracentesis, be- tween the Umbilicus and the highest Anterior Spine of the Ilium. The trunk itself is subject to varieties in propor- tional magnitude. I write at present from verbal report, and from the authority of what I conceived an accurate drawing by the gentleman who observed it. In that drawing, the Artery, between the Crest and the Ribs, was nearly as large as it is usually at its commencement. Sometimes, too, this Artery is assisted by another branch, either from the Femoral, or Deep Femoral, obsei zing nearly a similar course, and very nearly of similar extent, but running superficially beneath the Integuments (z). (z) ‘ Paulo post hanc Abdominalem, ex P'emorali alia fre- “ quens Artcna ad cutem exteriorem Abdominis per latus su- “ per sp.nain Ilium ad imas fere costas aseendens, nascitur, “ 9"* e* ipsa Glaudtilis Iugninalibus dat, et versus pubem ra- “ mum. Vidicx Profunda Pemoris luncramum ortum fuisse.” —Haller, Tub. 1. Fatcic. iv. and Fame. V. p. 9. * N236 A DESCRIPTION OP the arteries. arteria obturatoria. This Artery, accompanied by the Nerve called Obturator, passes through the Foramen Thyroideum m the Sinuous notch of the Os Pubis. Before it emerges from the cavity of the Pelvis, it distri- butes branches to the Obturator Internus, not un- frequently to the Urinary Bladder and the Prostate Oland, and, in rare cases, sends off one of the Ar- teries of the Penis (a). After leaving the Pelvis, it branches on the Obturator Externus, on the heads of the Triceps, Quadratus Femoris, the Capsular Ligament, the Acetabulum, sometimes within it, and near the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium. From its situation, it falls to inosculate with the Pelvien Pudic; and if it sends branches to the Pectineus, or gives off one of the Arteries of the Penis, with the In- guinal Pudics ; near the Ischial Tuberosity, it com- municates with branches from the Ischiadic ; and near the Acetabulum and Capsular Ligament, with branch- es from the Internal Circumflex. With regard to its origin, it is singularly irregu- lar. It has been observed arising from-the trunk of the Hypo-iliac, from the Gluteal, the Ischiadic, the 00 See Haller, Fascic. iv. p. 32,A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 237 N 2 Pelvien Pudic, and from the Iliac Portion of the Crural Artery. Nine times Haller observed it arising by a trunk common to it and the Epigastric; while others have remarked, that the common trunk being some- times longer and sometimes shorter, makes it to as- sume different situations, with respect to the sac in Crural Hernia. Mr. Bums saw it twice deriving its origin from the Superficial Femoral, and ascending to the Pelvis under the Arch, and along the Mesial aspect of the Vein. Haller saw it composed of a branch from the Hypo-iliac, and of another from the Epigastric, and expresses his surprise that the like \ had been noticed by Jacobus Sylvius, at a time when minute Anatomical Description was not very com- mon. Portal has observed these two branches unit- ing into one before they left the Pelvis, and has seen them inosculating only by their branches after they left it (b). In Crural Hernia, the Obturatoria from the Epi- gastric has been seen running round the neck of the sac on the Sternal aspect. Dr. Monro, when he late- ly published on Morbid Anatomy, imagined this cir- cumstance had first been noticed by Mr. James Wardrop. In Britain, I believe it was first noticed in that preparation of which Dr. Saunders has in his Thesis, and Mr. Cooper, in the second part of his (4) See his description of the Epigastric.£38 A DESCRIPTION OF TIIE ARTERIES. work upon Herniae, given a figure. The prepara- tion was made from a subject which I had been de- monstrating publicly in my Class; was injected and dissected by my then assistant Mr. John Dickson, now a surgeon in the Royal Navy. Mr. Cooper^ with a laudable attention to accuracy, declined to publish an account of it from a drawing, and accord- mgly the preparation was sent to him at the request of my friend Mr. Wardrop. As the origin and course of the Obturatoria, and Internal Circumflex, with relation to the sac in Cru- ral Hernia, and of the Epigastric, in relation to the sac in both the Inguinal and Crural Herniae, can never be very precisely ascertained previous to actual ex- amination (c), the only general rule to be given for avoiding these branches in the operation, is, when near the situations where they have been (d), or possibly may be, to examine every part before it is divided, and to divide none that has not been examined with the utmost attention. The eyes of the dumb when properly instructed can, in one sense, dis- tinguish the sounds of a language readily, by seeing at the time the organs which articulate them; and the fingers of the blind, with proper attention, can be (c) The Interna] Circumflex sometimes rises within the Pel- ViS. See Burns' Varieties of the Larger Arteries. (d) Most of these situations are enumerated in the excellent works of Cooper and of Lawrence upon Herniae.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 239 N 3 taught not only to write with facility, but, if I may venture on such an expression, to read what is writ- ten (e). Without a Visits and Tactus Eruditus, a sight and a touch, grown quick in discernment from habit and experience, without an accurate knowledge of the structure, a head that reflects, and a hand that can execute with promptness and precision, surgery has very little to expect from new contrivances in - the modes of operation, or from new inventions in the way of instruments. An instrument of the least fashionable form in the hands of such men as a Cheselden or a Hunter, is more to be trusted, than one of the newest and most elegant invention in the hands of a person who can merely talk of it, but has not the head or fingers to apply it. ARTERIA CRURALIS, Inguinal Portio?i. Non Haller, nor Lieutaud, nor Sabatier, nor Soemmerring, nor Boyer, nor Portal, nor the Con- tinuator of Bichat, have acknowledged this division of the Crural Artery. It commences nearly under (e) “ Essai sur l'education ties aveuglcs. Par M. Haiiv.” Au essay that was printed, and read by the blind.£40 a description or the arteries. the middle of the Ligament of Pnnmrt f 6 01 1 °upart, measuring Irom the Symphysis, to the highest Anterior Spine of t ie hun, (f); runs centrad of the Fascia and Inguinal Glands, is surrounded by much adipose substance «nd unusually strong Cellular membrane; has the Crural nerve and Iliacus Internus situated laterad the Pectineus and the Vein mesiad. Murray has tailed it the Common Femoral, and makes it to send off the Inguinal Pudics, and to terminate at the ori- gin of the Deep Femoral. The termination is the only thing doubtful. The question occurs, where does the Deep Femoral originate ? In one prepara- tion in my possession, and where there was no re- traction of the vessels, it rises where the trunk of the Crural Artery sinks under the Sartorius, and by actual measurement at more than the distance of two inches beyond the origin of the Circum- flex Arteries, which rise together by a common tiunk from the Crural Artery. Halier has seen it taking its origin, in mo Iliaco Interno, at the lowest part of the Iliacus, or at its insertion in the Tro- chanter Minor; he has seen it rising, medio loco fere, at nearly an equal distance from the Trochanter Minor and Pubis ; and has seen it rising before any of the Inguinal Pudics, in summofere Iliaco, at near- ffj “Au milieu de l’espace compris entre PEpine anteri- eure superieure de l’os des tie* et la Symphyse du Pubis.”-241 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. N 4 ly the highest part of the Iliaeus (g). If he means the most elevated part of the Iliaeus, or the part at the greatest perpendicular distance from the table or ground, when the subject lay supine, it rose from the Crural a little atlantad of the Ligament of Pou- part, and within the Pelvis ; if he means the most Atlantal part of the Iliaeus, which I think he does not, it rose near to the Hypo-iliac. Mr. Burns, at * the time that he published his Varieties of the Larger Arteries, had seen it, in three different subjects, springing from the Crural within the Pelvis. In short, this Artery rises sometimes proximad, and sometimes dislad of the Inguinal Pudics, and the Circumflex Arteries; sometimes it gives off an In- (g) “ In imo Iliaco Interne nascitur plerumque Profunda Fe- “ moris quae frequentius Circumflexam internam et externam “generat.”—Halter, Fascic. V. p. 10. in another part of the same column, he says : “ Nascitur Profunda in musculo Iliaco, “ quern ad finera sequitur, medio loco fere orta inter Os Pubis " etTrochanterem minorem j” but this last passage has no re- ference to the general or common origin of the Artery; only to its origin in particular cases as represented in the first and second plate of his fifth Fasciculus, and in the front view of the whole body, in his eighth Fasciculus. From not attending to these references, Boyer was misled where he says: “ Elle “ (l’Artere Profonde) nait de la partie posterieure et un peu “ exteroe de cette Artfere, (la Crurale) vis~d-vis le milieu de “ I’espace compris entre le Pubis et le petit trochanter, quelquC- “ fois plus baut, mais rarement plus bas.”242 A description op the arteries. f . "d,e' s°raet"nes the Epigastric itself (k) 7nM‘,mCS 0,,e' “,,d somctimes both of the Circoni- flex Arteries; when i, givos 011c> „|c olhcr arjses sometimes before it, and sometimes after it from the v.iuial trunk. slil't S,'rge0n' ” °ril“ t0 *,,ide ,lis operations, shon.1 be anxious to know i„ what proportional num- be, of times does the one or the other of these dis. tributions happen ,0 occui, the answe,. ,at ,t could be given on the broad and genuine punciples of induction, would be of little service in practice; can it be imagined that any would ever /C 50 tho»ghtless and rash, as to think of operat- ing by such a rule: first, a certain number of times proportmned to the frequency of this distribution and then, a certain number of times proportioned to the frequency of that distribution. The most common variety is where the Profunda rises nearly opposite the Trochanter Minor, and gives off the two Circumflex Arteries ; the Inguinal Pudics aris- ing previously between that origin and the Li°-a- ment of Poupart. But however numerous the varie- ties may be, they present nothing that appears pe- culiarly characteristic. It seems to be a general law o the system, that where a trunk like the Perice- phalic, the Subclavian Portion of the Brachial Ar- Seep. 232 of this Treatise.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 243 N 5 tcry, or the Hypo-iliac, is to supply a number of parts, and, from nearly the same place in its course, it may either send off its branches separately, or two or more of them differently combined in a common stem; that where the size of these branches is small, it may send them off in the greater numbers ; or in smaller numbers, if they happen to be large; and lastly, that branches, after they each take a separate course, may vary their size, their number of divisions, and their extent of ramification, as the neighbouring Arteries, to the same parts, furnish a greater or a less share of the general supply. Without, therefore, attempting to define what na- ture herself has not chosen to define, the precise termination of the Inguinal Portion of the Crural Ar- tery, I shall proceed to give some idea of those branches that usually originate directly, or indirect- ly, from the Crural Artery in that space interposed between the Ligament of Poupart, and where, in its progress, it approaches nearest the Trochanter Minor. Some of these may be termed simply Inguinal branches, of no determinate number or size, of course, or extent of ramification ; others may be named In- guinal rudics, from their being ramified on the Sexual organs ; two are the Circumflex Arteries of the Femur, and, though seldom the last, yet always the largest, is the Femoral Profunda.244' A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. RAMI INGUINALES (i) Include a number of irregular branches, general- ly small, that are seen occasionally arising from the trunk, distinct from thePudic and Circumflex branch- es. Some are ramified on the Inguinal Glands, some on the Psoas, Iliacus Internus, and the Pectineus, where they inosculate with Circumflex branches; some ascend over the Ligament, to be more or less extensively ramified under the Integuments of the Abdomen (k) ; some have extended atlantadand Interacl to the crest of the Ilium, the Tensor Va- gina?, to the Sartorius, and Gluteus Medius, where they inosculated with Gluteal branches; some have been distributed on a part of the Rectus and the Sartorius, sometimes on part of the neighbouring muscles; some have accompanied the Crural nerve a (0 See Haller, Fascic. V. p. 10. (A) “ L’Artfere Crurale fournit d’abord une ou deux petites “ branches que remonte sur le ventre entre le Peau et les Mus- “ cles, en communiquant avec quelques-uns des Rameaux de “ la petite Iliaque Anterieure et de l’Epigastrique, et quelque- “ fois superieurement a la hauteur de l’ombilic avec les Ra- “ meaux des Artrfcres Mammaires Internes et des Thoraciques “ Anterieures: des Anatomistes les ont designees sous le nom “ d’Artires Epigastrigues Externes.”—Portal.A DESCRIPTION OP THE ARTERIES. 245 part of its way; sometimes two or more of them have sprung from a common stem ; and sometimes their places have been supplied by the neighbouring Arteries. PUDIC/E INGUINALES. I have chosen this name to distinguish them from the Pudic that originates in the Pelvis. They are ramified on the parts that cover the Symphysis, on the Scrotum in males, on the Labia in females; some have been seen extending their branches on the Dorsum of the Penis as far as the Prepuce. They inosculate with branches of the Pelvien Pudic, of the Obturatoria, and of the Spermatic ; and also with branches reflected on the cord from the Epi- gastric. The nearest in origin to the Ligament of Poupart, arise either from the Crural Artery, or from the Profunda, the more distal from the Crural Artery beyond the Profunda. Some mention three, a Superior, Middle, and an Inferior j but their number is not definite, nor is their extent of ramification; and when two of them arise by a common stem, they are counted but as one.24 6 A description of the arteries. CIRCUMFLEXjE FEMORIS. These branches are two, distinguished by the epithets Internal and External: the first pene- trates deep among the muscles, and passes round by the Tibial aspect to the Popliteal; the second has received the title of Circumflex, merely from a branch that runs across on the Rotular aspect towards the ! U a‘ ; the first 1S ramified principally upon the adductors of the Femur, and the Flexors of the Le^ that rise from the Pelvis; the second upon the ab! doctors of the Femur, and Extensors of the Leg. ■ere I to substitute new epithets for Interna and Externa, I would propose Major and Minor, two re- atiye terms that are strictly applicable, and not liable to any ambiguity. CIRCUMFLEXA MAJOR, seu ' Interna, iiv a rare case, has been seen rising from the Cru- ral Artery within the Pelvis (/) ; often in the Groin (l) See Bums’ Emetics of the Larger Arteries,A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 2 47 above the Profunda; sometimes from the Crural by a common trunk, with the External or Smaller Cir- cumflex ; but most generally from the Profunda. Its course is poplitead, close to the Uiacus Interims and Psoas, and between the Acetabulum and Trochanter Minor, where it divides into several branches, one continued between the Adductor Magnus and Quad- ratus, and then reflected under the Quadratus to- wards the Gemelli. Between its origin, and this ex- tent of its ramification, branches are distributed to the parts adjacent, to the Psoas, Iliacus Interims, and Peetineus, to the Scrotum in males, to the Labia in females, to the heads of the Triceps (in), the Obturator Externus, the Capsule of the joint, to the Acetabu- lum, the Trochanter Major, and Tuberosity of the Ischium, to the Semi-tendinosus, the Semi-mem- branosus, and to the long head of the Biceps. Towards the Scrotum, it inosculates with the Pudics; near the Acetabulum, upon the Obturator, and heads of the Triceps, with the Obturatoria ; near the Ramus of the Ischium, with transverse branches from the Haemorrhoidals; near the Quad- ratus and the Gemelli, with branches proceeding from the Gluteal, the Ischiadic, and the Pelvien Pudic; near the Trochanter, with perforating branch- (m) The Adductor Brevis, Longus, and Magnus, when viewed as one muscle, are named the Triceps Adductor Femoris.248 A description of THE ARTERIES. .? fT ?* ,P,'0f“nda' ™h branches from the Profunda on the Semi-tendinosus, the Semi. CIRCUMFLEXA MINOR, seu Externa, Rising sometimes prommai, and sometimes dislad ° j0 Kl“' but more generally from the Pro- xunda takes a transverse direction on the Rotular aspect, penpherad of the Psoas and Iliacus Internus and centrad of the Sartorius and Rectus. At the Rectus, descends on the Central aspect of that mus- cle, near lts Fibular margin, and is seen terminating p 6 aStUS Externus> not far from the Rotula Fiom its origin to the Rectus, it distributes Ramuli to the Iliacus, some atlantad into the Pelvis, and some distad to the Lesser Trochanter, where'they inosculate with similar Ramuli from the other Cir- cumflex. Arriving at the Rectus, it distributes branches to that muscle, and sends off the large transverse branch from which the whole has been named Circumflex. The Transverse branch passes fbulad under the Tensor Vaginffi Femor.^ generally under the Vastus Externus; distributingA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 249 branches in the space between the crest of the Ilium and the Trochanter, to the Iliacus, the Rectus, Sarto- rius, and the Tensor Vaginae ; to the Gluteus Medius ; sometimes to the Gluteus Parvus and Magnus; and beyond the Trochanter to the Vastus Externus. On the Glutei, it inosculates with branches from the Gluteal; near the Trochanter, with extreme branches from the Larger Circumflex, and with perforating branches from the Profunda. To the Transverse branch follows a series of smaller branches running distad and Jibulad to the Vastus Externus ; the last inosculating with Articular branches near the Pa- tella, and the preceding, by minuter Ramuli, with Circumflex branches from the Profunda. When this, which is called the Transverse branch, is found to be a large division of the Trunk, the Trunk is named the descending branch. In rare cases, this Transverse branch arises from the Crural with the Larger Circumflex, while what is here denominated the Trunk, arises at a distance from the Profunda. PROPUNDA FEMORIS, Very seldom rises within the Pelvis, often gives off one or both of the Circumflex Arteries, sometimes a Pudic, very seldom the Epigastric, or a branch230 A DESC«>FTION or fME ABTERItj. reflected towards the Abdomen. It i. found of d;c. ere,H proport,ona! lengths, as it originates proxim,d ° J “ad “ lhe rcSi0" °f the Femur, and likewise of different proportional diameters, as it gives off more or fewer than the ordinary branches. From what- eve, part of the Crural it arises, it runs distai and pophlead towards the part of the Linea Aspera I7ef! ’\AddUCt0r B,evis is inerted, and where pa. t of the \ astus Inlernus.originates. Soon after, an generally at the Interstice between the Adductor levis and Longue, though sometimes later, and sometimes earlier, it crosses obliquely the Linea spera, and ,s seen distributing its ultimate branch- es to the Flexor muscles that constitute the Ham- strings. In the progress of its course, it sends branches to llie \ astus Interims, that occasionally extend to the Crureus; branches to the Triceps; and one or more perforating branches, which, like the continuation of f16 T;Unk' that is described as the last of its ranches, cross obliquely the Linea Aspera to the Semi-mem branosus, the Semi-tendinosus, and the iceps Ci uris. These branches send off others of considerable size that, as Circumflex branches, turn round close to the Femur from the Popliteal to the ular aspect, where they are ramified on the Vas- tns 'xtennis, or the Vastus Externus and Gluteus j agnus. The perforating branches, whatever beA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 251 their number, are not unlike either in their course, or their general distribution to the Larger Circum- flex ; the first, which crosses the Linea Aspera, near the insertion of the Pectineus, inosculates in its course with branches of the Circumflex; inos- culates also with Ischiadic and Gluteal branches; while the second in succession, if there be a second exclusive of the Trunk, inosculates with branches arising from the first, as the Trunk inosculates with the perforating branch that immediately precedes it. Their Circumflex branches, that turn round dose to the Femur, can be traced through their course only by removing the Vastus Externus. ARTERIA CRURALIS, Femoro-tibial Portion, or, Arlcria Femoralis Svperjicialis, Extends from the Groin poplitead and dislad, at first, under the Integuments and Fascia, then, under the Integuments, Fascia, and Sartorius, and lastly, under these and that Aponeurosis, which stretches poplitead from the Vastus Internus to the252 A description or THE arteries. Large Adductor (a). Like the Profunda, but ^ tuated more to the Rotular aspect, i, runs dUtud bc. ween the Vastus Internes and Triceps, stretches ejmnd the farthest insertion of the Long Adductor, passes obliquely towards the Ham through the arge Adductor, where the Tendon of that muscle IntonuT 8‘Ve °llgin t0 the DiS‘aI Par* °f *he V“tus Those Anatomists, who make it to commence al- >*a,ys at the origin „f the Profunda, will find it not un. tequently sending branches to the Inguinal Glands, affoi dnig an origin to the Smaller Circumflex, to one 0 t e udics, and, in very rare cases, to tile Epi- gastric. I„ ies course, it sends branches to the Vastus In,emus, the Gracilis, the Sartorius, and neighbouring Integuments. Near to the place where tlle Adductor, it gives off a branch hod the Anastomotic, running ,listed and rota/ad towards the Patella, and spreading out branches on ie Tibial aspect, and across the Joint where they are expended upon the neighbouring Ligaments and iendons, and the Fascia of the Leg. 3ci tlie same place, sends off also one or more branches that are styled Perform», running iidad - ZLD”S pStB d' 6t,!nd,,e'!l “l “»’«• par Ie Poau, „ X"enr0S' Fm‘ b<- « “ ataacle Couturier, „ d. p,„ „ . "rement ‘'’P-^rose qui ,a du mate interne ,» troisieme adducteur.”—Boyer.253 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. and Jibulad across the Poples towards the Biceps and the Vastus Extemus, these succeed to the perforat- ing branches of the Profunda, and, like them, give out Circumflex branches that turn round close to the Femur under the Vastus. ARTERIA CRURALIS, t Femoro-ponliteal Portion, or, Arteria Poplitea, Runs first distad and Jibulad, and then distad be- tween the two Condyles of the Femur; stretches as far as the Distal margin of the Popliteus, having this muscle and the Capsular Ligament situated cen- trad, the Tendons of the muscles forming the Ham- strings upon the sides, and covered poplitead by the Integuments, a large quantity of adipose substance, the Vein, and the Nerve; and lastly, after passing the Joint, by the Integuments, and the Belly of the Gastrocnemius Externus. In this course, it sends off from its Lateral aspects branches distributed to the Flexor muscles on each side, and circumflected close to the Bone, under them and the Vasti. The last of these CircumflexA description op the arteries. branches proximad of the Knee, are named the Su- perw/- Articular branches, and two others distad of the Knee, the Inferior Articular. To these, if we add an Azygos Articular, Two Branches entering the Gastrocnemius Extern™, and the Two Large Cnemial Arteries, into which it divides beyond the Popliteus, we enumerate all the usual branches ascribed by Anatomists to this Portion of the Crural Artery. proximo-articulares, or, Articulares Superiors Externa et Interna. The two Superior or Proximo-Articulars, cir- cumflected proximad of the two Condyles, distribute their branches through and under the two Vasti to the Rotular aspect, and form a part of the Vascular Plexus that is spread upon and round the Patella in the region of the Knee Joint. In forming this Plexus, they inosculate in their course with branches from the two Disto-Articulars, and the Azygos Articular; the one turning round by the Tibial side, with branches from the Anastomotic, and with perforat- ing branches from the Tibio-Femoral Portion of the Ci ural; and the other turning round by the lbular side, with branches proceeding from the Smaller Circumflex.255 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. DISTO-ARTICU LARES, or, Articulares Inferiores, Externa, et Interna. The two Inferior or Disto-Articulars, circum- flected laterad, and nearer to the Joint and the La- teral Ligaments, unite more conspicuously in form- ing the Plexus with the recurrent branches from the Leg. In their course, they send branches to the Soleus, to the Popliteus, and the Gastrocnemius, to the Flexor Tendons, to the Capsular Ligament, the Lateral Ligaments, the Ligament of the Patella, and to the two Semilunar Cartilages ; and often inoscu- late on the parts more immediately connected with the Joint by very minute, though perceptible branch- es of the Azygos Articular. AUTICULARIS AZVGA, or, Articularis Media. This Azygos branch, arising from the Trunk, or from one of the two Proximo-Articulars, runs distad, and spreads, between the Condyles, on the Capsular Ligament, the adipose substance, the Semilunar Car- tilages, and the Crucial Ligaments, inosculating with all the adjoining branches.256 A description of the arteries. These five Articular Arteries are comparatively email, and most of their origins would be included w„hm the units „f a Iarge Aneurism; ^ the Knee Joint, which is one reason, among many others of much more importance, why the operation o. such an Aneurism should not be performed in ie region of the Ham, and why the operation, or some other remedy, should be resorted to as early as possible, to preserve the articulation of the Knee Joint, ttAiVU GASTROCNEMII. between the origins of the Proximal and Distal Ar- ticular branches, are regularly observed two branches entenng the Heads of the Gastrocnemius, and which riot unfrequently send off a branch that, running superficially upon the muscle, often stretches as far as the Os Calcis. arterle tibiales. The two large branches of the Leg, into which the Crural Artery divides at the Distal boundary of ie lopIes „r Ham, are styled by Anatomists the term’f T™' ''nStCal1 °f as ■> g^nd torn for denoting them both, I should have preferred the term Cnemial, a word not entirely a stranger inA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 257 I Anatomy, and which signifies in general what be- longs to the Cneme, or Leg. Instead also of the vague terms Anterior and Posterior, by which they are distinguished, and for which some of the older Anatomists make use of the terms External and In- ternal (n), I should have preferred the epithets Ro- tular and Popliteal. In the human species, the Crural Artery regular- ly divides into these two branches, which in all cases may, in the strictest propriety of language, be called Cnemial, but by no means Tibial. The Student is informed that sometimes the one, and sometimes the other of the two Tibial branches is wanting; not, in- deed, that he is to suppose that one of the Cnemial branches is wanting, but merely that one of them, happening to vary a little in its course, and in its situation, must, agreeably to the fashion of naming the Arteries, be now denominated a Peroneal, not a Tibial Artery. On comparing these Arteries with those that are termed Radial and Ulnar, the Tibialis Antica is that which corresponds, in its general character, with the Radial Artery, and the Tibialis Postica with the Ulnar. As the Radial Artery recedes from the Thenal aspect of the arm, to run on the Anconal (o) The Anterior Tibial, according to Hallbr, is the Tibialis Exterior of C. Bauhin, and the Tibialis Postica, the Internal Tibial of Keil.25S A DESCRIPTION of the arteries. aspect of the Carpus, and returns again to its former aspect between the Metacarpal bones of the Thumb and the Index Manus; so the Tibialis Antica of the Leg leaves the Popliteal for the Rotular aspect, runs along the bones of the Tarsus, and returns again to lts f°™er aspect between the Metatarsal of the Great Toe, and of what may be called the Index Pedis. As the Ulnar Artery always continues on the same aspect, and is very generally the principal Artery that furnishes the Volar and Digital branches, so the Tibialis Postica of the Leg always continues on the same aspect, and is in general the principal Ar- tery that furnishes the Plantar and Digital branches. This Tibialis frequently sends off a considerable branch that runs along the side of the Fibula as far as the Tarsus, and sometimes so large as to pass for the Trunk, when the Trunk is either said to be wanting, or only a branch of the Peroneal or Fibular Artery. The young Anatomist is here to recollect, that the Fibula is that bone-of the Leg which cor- responds to the Ulna of the fore-arm (p), and that fD The Radius, situated on the same side of the Hand with the Thumb, must correspond to the Bone of the Le- on the same aspect with the Great Toe. 'But besides this, there are many other proofs of analogy, of which I shall mention only one or two. < in viewing the extremities of the lower animals we soon perceive that the Radius and Tibia have a more regular and permanent character, than the Ulna and Fibula. TheA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 25f> 0 this Tibialis, by running a little nearer to the Fibula, approaches in its character still nearer to the Ulnar. This occasional branch called Peronea, that runs dislad by the side of the Fibula as far as the Tar- sus, arising sometimes from the Tibialis, that cor- responds with the Radial Artery, but more fre- quently from the Tibialis, that corresponds with the Ulnar Artery, has evidently man}' of those charac- ters that belong to the Interosseal of the fore-arm. The Interosseal sometimes arising from the Humeral Artery along with the Radial, but more frequently from the Humeral Artery along with the Ulnar, al- ways sends off perforating branches through the In- terosseous Ligament; generally distributes its ulti- mate branches in the region of the Carpus ; occasion- ally assumes the size of the Radial and Ulnar Ar- teries, and sends off Volax and Digital branches, which are all characters, making allowances for dif- ference of circumstance, belonging to this Artery of the Leg. two last are respectively larger in Moles and in Frogs; respec- tively smaller in the Cow and the Horse j while the Fibula is wanting in the Deer and the Goat, and the Ulna, if united by ossification, only a kind of process to the Radius, as the Fibula, when present, is in many species nothing more than a process of the Tibia.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 2 GO TIBIALIS ANTICA Passes in general from the Popliteal to the Ro- tular aspect, at the Distal margin of the Popliteus, and, although between the Tibia and Fibula, does not perforate the Interosseous Ligament, but passes before the Ligament commences (q). On the Rotular aspect, it runs dislad along the Ligament; at first, between the Extensor Digitorum and Extensor Pollicis, and then between the Ex- tensor Pollicis and Tibialis Anticus. Approaching the Distal extremity of the Tibia, it runs distad and tibiad towards the Tarsus. Arriving at the Tarsus, it passes under the Ligament of the Tendons, and continues its direction towards the Interstice be- tween the Metatarsals of the Great Toe and the Index Pedis. Between these, it runs dislad and plantad, and at last, terminating on the Plantar aspect, inosculates with the branch called Planlaris JExternus. Before it passes to the Rotular aspect, it distributes branches to the Soleus, Tibialis Posticus, and the Cap- sular Ligament, on which last, they inosculate with the Azygous Articular, and the Disto-Articulars. (q) “ Par-dessus l’extremite superieure du Ligament Inter* “ osseux dans l’espace d’echanerure qu’on y observe, et uon “ par un trou, comuie quelques Anatomistes disent.”—Portal.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 26l o 2 Immediately on arriving at tlie Rotular aspect., it sends off a branch that is named the Recurrent, ascending between the Extensor Digitorum and Ti- bialis Anticus, distributing Ramuli to these muscles, to the parts around the head of the Fibula, uniting also with the Disto-Articulars, and entering the Vas- cular Plexus of the Knee Joint. A little farther advanced in its progress, it is fre- quently seen giving out another of considerable size, that, penetrating through the Extensor Digitorum, runs distad on the Fibula between the Extensor and Peroneous Longus, as far as the Ancle. It is also observed, through the whole of its course, send- ing off branches in great numbers, at small distances, and limited in extent of ramification; some running peripherad to the Integuments; some ramified on the Periosteum ; some communicating with perforat- ing branches that pass through the Ligament ; and some communicating with other branches from the same aspect on the Tibial and Fibular sides of the Leg. The same mode of general distribution is con- tinued throughout; for whether it be on the Leg or Foot, it every where inosculates, through the me- dium of its branches, with branches that pass through Interosseous spaces, and, upon the Tibial and Fi- bular aspects, with branches that originate in the Popliteal. Murray calls two of these lateral branch-262 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. cs the Malleolares, because they are ramified upon the Ancles. Haller calls another the Arteria Tar- sea, that runs Jihulad under the Extensors across the Tarsus; and another the Arleria Melatarsea, fiom its 1 unning Jibulad on the Proximal extremi- ty of the Metatarsus. These last branches, meet- ing with some of the Plantar branches at the Fi- bulai aspect, aie converted into what Anatomists call Arches. From the convexity of these arches, branches run distad along the Interossei ; if they be large from the Tarsal arch, the Metatarsal is small, or is wanting ; if they be small from the Tarsal arch, the Metatarsal is observed to be larger, and to send off’ the branches to the Interossei. But these two arches can scarcely be reckoned regular appearances, in some individuals, they are very indistinct, and in others, the eye, though assisted by the fancy, can- not discern them. The functions of both themselves and their branches, are sometimes performed by branches proceeding directly from the Trunk to the Interossei; sometimes again by a Vascular Plexus formed by numerous branches from the Trunk, and by branches from the Plantar aspect of the Foot, penetrating through Interosseous spaces, or inoscu- lating on the Tibial and Fibular aspects. I have one preparation minutely injected, where large branches are seen running along the Interossei, and which, as is evident from the injection, had received a supplyA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 263 o 3 •f blood from the Plexus, and the principal share from the perforating branches. Before this Tibialis enters the Planta, between the Metatarsals of the Great Toe and the Index Pedis, like the Radial Artery on passing to the Vola between the Metacarpal bones of the Thumb and the Index Manus, it sends off a branch that afterwards divides into a Digito-Fibular of the Great Toe, and a Digito-Tibial branch of the Index. “ In many subjects,” says Mr. Burns in a let- ter, “ I find the Anterior Tibial exhausted before it reaches the Tarsus." In one case, I perceived it obliterated at the Distal extremity of the Tibia and Fibula, but appearing as usual upon the Tarsus with several of the lateral branches enlarged. It is not improbable that pressure from the shoe, or from other causes, may frequently impede the functions of this Artery and of its branches, where they run upon the Tarsus, and occasion appearances that did not belong to the original and natural formation. In the letter to which I have just now alluded, Mr. Burns adds, “ In two subjects I found the An- terior Tibial wanting. Its place was supplied by perforating twigs from the Posterior Tibial Artery. The Arteria Pcronea Antica supplied its place on the Dorsum of the Foot.” In leaving the Popliteal for the Rotular aspect, this Tibial Artery docs not always pass at the DistalA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. margin of the Popliteus. In the fifth plate of the fifth Fasciculus of the learned Haller, the larger di, vision of the Femoro-Popliteal Portion of the Crural mns distacl a considerable way on the Popliteal aspect of the Leg, and then divides into two branch- es of very nearly an equal magnitude; one continu- ing the course of the Trunk on the same aspect, as a Peroneal Artery; the other perforating the Inter- osseous Ligament, to assume the place and perform the office of the Tibialis Antica. If the common Trunk in this case were to be viewed as the proper Trunk of the Peroneal Artery, the Tibialis Antica might be said to be wanting, and its place supplied by a perforating branch from the Peroneal, distinct, however, from the perforating branch that passes through the Ligament near its Distal extremity, and which by Haller has been honoured with the title of Peronea Antica. TIBIALIS POSTICA Huns distad on the Leg under the Soleus, adja- cent to the course of the Tibial Nerve, and, at the sinuosity of the Os Calcis, generally divides into two branches denominated Plantar, and distinguish- ed by the epithets External and Internal. In this course, and not far from its origin, it frequently sends off a large branch that extends to the Tarsus,A DESCRIPTION OF THE AnTEniES. 2t)5 O 4 and which, from its course along the side of the Fibula or Perone, has been termed Peroneal (r). The Peroneal is at first concealed under the I' lexor Pollicis Longus, sends off several perforating branch- es that pass through the Ligament to the Rotular aspect, and at last a branch, larger than the rest, (r) “ Peronea,” says Haller, “ Peronea plerumque minor, “ nonnunquam aut cequalis, aut potuis major quam Tibialis “ Posterior, aliquando nulla fait, ut ejus loco ramus esset “ ex Tibiali Postioa infra Popliteum ortus, descendens cum “ Flexoi'e communi Digitorum, et in ima ipsa epipbysi Tibia' “ anastomosin liabens cum Trunco Afteriss Tibialis.”—Fabric. V. p. 37. This language would seem to imply, that he did not consider the Peroneal so much a branch of the Posterior Tibial, as a separate Trunk from the Femoro-Popliteal Portion of the C? oral; and accordingly he observes in another place, “ Tibialis Postica plerumque inter tres Truncos Arterise Popli- “ tea maxima est.”—Fascic. V. p. 35. If the Peroneal were a regular branch, and if it rose generally near the Distal margin of the Po'pliteus, it would render the analogy between the Ar- teries of the Leg and the Fore-arm still more striking. The Crural Artery might then, like the Brachial, be said to divide nto three branches, the Tibialis Antica, Tibialis Postica, and the Peronea: the first corresponding to the Radial Artery, and generally the first branch of the three ; the Tibialis Postica to the Ulnar Artery, and generally terminating the Crural Artery with the Peronea, that corresponds to the Interosseal branch of the Fore-arm. So far as I have beea able to leam from my own observations, or from the observations of others, the Cru- ral Artery, though lifcc the Brachial exceedingly diversified in ramification, (Haller, Fascic. V■ p. 3, 4.) is more steady as to26j6 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. styled by Haller Peronrn. Arnica, assisting the An. tenor Td,ml Artery in furnishing branches to the Ancles and Tarsus. The Peroneal, termed now c.onca Poahca, continues its course behind the El ternal or Fibular Ancle to the Os Calcis, whence some of its branches have been seen inosculating with that branch of tile Tibial Artery called Plan, tans Externus. In those cases where the Tibial Artery is im. peded in its functions, the Peroneal is found to enlarge as the Tibial diminishes, and supplying the unctions, or part of the functions of the Tibial° Ar- tery, the Tibial is said either to be wanting or only a branch of the Peroneal, in which case the lnternal Pl“Mar has been also found wanting (s). the place where it sends off the Arteries of the Leg, than the Brachial Artery as to the place where it sends off the Arteries of the Fore-arm. To form a judgment from the numerous ob- servations already made, it must be seldom, and extremely seldom, that any of these three Arteries of the Leg take their origin proximad of the Knee Joint, or run between its Capsular Ligament and the Popliteus; and perhaps one cause of this steadiness may be, that the voluntary motions of the Sacral Extremities are not so numerous, nor yet so varied as those of the Atlantal. (-0 ‘ The Posterior Tibial is sometimes wanting, in which case the Peroneal is very large, and sends branches to the muscles which ought to be supplied by the Tibial; it also sends a large branch into the sole of the Foot; but I have in these cases found the Internal Plantar Artery wanting."—Let- ter from Mr. Burns.A description of the arteries. 2()7 When a Peroneal, and the two Tibial Arteries are present, the Peroneal, through the medium of its branches, inosculates with both; with the one rotulad, with the other poplitead of the Fibular Ancle ; if it be large, inosculates also conspicuously with both upon the Fibular side of the Tarsus ; with lateral branches from the Anterior ; and with the External Plantar branch, that seems in general to be the continued Trunk of the Posterior. Among these inosculating branches, one is particularly distinguish- ed by its size, the regularity of its presence, and its steadiness of position; it is seen poplitead, near to the junction of the Tibia and Fibula, and extending transversely between the Peroneal and Posterior Ti- bial. Haller, who observed these inosculations, and trusted only to those that were conspicuous, remarks, that even in consequence of two, which he has men- tioned, the Posterior Tibial might be tied without danger (/). Amidst the great variety of branches which the Posterior Tibial gives out in the progress of its (/) “ Uae duae anastomoses adeo magnae sunt, ut nullum du- “ bium supersit, posse Avteriam Tibialem, absque ullo peri- “ culo gangrenae, ligari ct dcstrui, ut solet cum radiali fieri. “ Aliae etiarn tamen sunt, neque ese minima; uniones inter hunc “ ramum Peronea et posticam Tibialem ante Achillis tendinem, “ ut minores et reticulatas omittam, quae retro eum tendinem, “ cum surculis Tibialibus coeunt, cuti propiores.”—Fascic. V. p. 39.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Q68 course to the parts adjacent, there is none, that is so distinguished with respect to size, regularity of ori- gin, or ramification, that has been thought entitled to a name, excepting the Peroneal, which is some- times wanting, and the Nutritial Artery of the Bone, which is furnished occasionally by the neighbouring branches. If a Peroneal Artery be present, the Pos- terior Tibial unites with it often through the me- dium of its branches ; if not present, the Tibial sends off other branches to supply the deficiency, communicates with the Anterior Tibial by perfo- rating branches that pass through the Ligament, and by branches that ramify upon the Tibial and Fibular aspects. Having reached the Os Calcis, it distributes branches to the Sinuosity, and the parts around it; and, through the medium of these branches, inosculating with the other Arteries adja- cent, it divides at last into the two branches that are termed Plantar. RAMI PLANTARES. The Plantar branches are those which supply the sole of the Foot, and which run upon the Tibial and Fibular sides ; the one running on the Tibial side, being the Internal; and the other on the Fibular side, the External. The External is properly the Trunk continued; the Internal has often more theA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 269 appearance of a lateral branch, than of what might he called a division of the Trunk; it is naturally wanting, when the Tibialis Postica is wanting; and even when the Tibialis is present, it has sometimes no other mark of distinction than that among the branches which issue from the Trunk, to be after- wards ramified on the Fibular side ; it is generally the largest, and has its origin in the Sinuosity of the Os Calcis. The External Plantar, on the con- trary, has been present when the Tibialis Postica has been absent; an event which also naturally occurs when the blood, diverted from its, usual channel in the region of the Leg, returns to it again by inoscu- lating branches in the region of the Foot. Taking the two as they generally appear, they rise together in the Sinuosity of the Os Calcis, near the broad ori- gin of the Abductor Pollicis Pedis, or the articula- tion of the Os Calcis with the Astragalus. The Ramus Interims, or the Arteria Plantaris Interna, as it sometimes is called, is seen running distad upon the Tibial side of the Planta, and the Central aspect of the Abductor Pollicis Pedis; dis- tributing branches to that muscle, to the Flexor Bre- vis, the Adductor Pollicis, and the parts adjacent, whether they be Bones, Ligaments, Tendons, or neighbouring Integuments. It inosculates upon the Tibial aspect with numerous branches from the Ilotular aspect; towards the Fibular side of the o 6A description of the arteries. Plants, with branches from the External Plantar ■ with Retrograde branches of the same Plantar pro! ceeding from its Arch ; and with the Tibialis An- tics, where it enters the Plants, and anastomoses with the Ramus Ex ter mis. Karnus Externus, or the Arteria Plantaris Ex. tenia, continuing the Trunk, runs dislad and fibulad, and centrad of the Flexor Brevis Digitorum, until • t reaches the Proximal extremity of the Metatarsal of the Little Toe; from that situation, or a little be- yond it, it bends centrad of the Flexor Tendons to the Tibial side, until it arrives at the Interstice be- tween the Metatarsals of the Great Toe and the In- dex Pedis. At that point, it meets and inosculates with the Tibialis Antica, and completes what is cal- led the Plantar Arch («). This is the only Arch of die Planta, and, though .seemingly (v) formed by (u) Verheyen, the first who observed and described the Deep Volar Arch, was the first also who bestowed the name of Arch on this part of the External Plantar. “ Hunc arcum “ primus dixit Philippus Verheyenius et inter ramum Plantaris " internum atqueTibialem Anticam, rete intercepi recte ob- " servavit.”—Haller, Fascic. V. p. 50. (v) It is a matter of little importance, whether this Arch be assigned principally to the Anterior Tibial Artery, or the Plan- tar branch of the Posterior. It is formed by both, and, like the Deep Volar in the hand, formed by the Radial and a commu- nicating branch from the Ulnar, may at times receive a greaterA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 271 the Tibial Artery that corresponds to the Ulnar of the Fore-arm, it is not superficial, but deeply seated, and in that respect rather resembles the Deep Volar Arch that is principally formed by the Radial Ar- tery ; and which, in cases uncommonly rare, sends off the Volar and Digital branches. During its course clistad and Jibulad, the External Plantar sends branches peripherad to the Incumbent Integuments and muscles : brandies towards the Fi- bular aspect, where they meet with others from the Rotular aspect; branches tibiad to inosculate with the Plantaris Externa, or if the Plantaris Externa be wanting, continued till they meet with other branches near the Tibial aspect. In its- course from the Fibular to the Tibial side, where it forms the Arch, it gives off the several Plan- tar branches that are either continued, or afterwards divided into Digital branches. The Digitals run dislad on the Tibial and Fibular aspects of the Toes, supply from the one than the other. “ Ut difficile dictu sit,” to use the language of the learned Haller, “ Ut difficile dictu “ sit an ad hanc omnino Plantarem Extemam arcus Plantaris “ pertineat, et tamen jura Antictz Tibialis potiora sint, qu* “ diametro Plantarem superet, et cujus truncus ita dirigitur, “ ut rami arcus Plantaris, angulos cum ipso obtusos, cum “ Plautari Externa acntos faciant atque adeo etiam hoc ex “ principio potius ad Tibialem Anticam spectent.”—Fascic. V. p. 50.272 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. inosculate in their course by Transverse branches, „ and' like the Digital branches of the hand, terminate at last in Digital Arches. Near the Metatarsal of the Great Toe, where it unites with the Anterior Tibial Artery, it increases its diameter, and generally sends off the Plantar branch that afterwards divides into the Digito-Ti- bial of the Index Pedis, and the Digito-Fibular of the Great Toe. With respect to the Digito-Tibial branch of the Great Toe, it is sometimes wanting • has sometimes its place supplied by a Plexus; at times is a branch of the Anterior Tibial Artery before the anastomsis is formed ; and at times a division of the Plantar branch, from which the other two Di- gitals arise. The other branches from the Plantar Arch, are those which correspond in their general character to what Haller has denominated, in treat- ing of the Hand, Volar Interosseals, Volar Per- forates, and Retrograde Volars. And here termi- nate the Ramifications of the Aorta.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 273 ARTERIA PULMONALIS, The Arteria Venalis of Realdus Columbus, and the Vena Arteriosa of a great number of the older Anatomists prior to Harvey. It rises from the Right, or Pulmonic Ventricle, and ascends from its origin atlantad and sinislrad, until it arrives at the concave part of the Left Pillar of the Aorta, where it divides into two branches (w>), one on each side ol’ (a>) In the Foetus, it divides into three: the third branch en- tering the Aorta, and named the Ductus Arteriosus. From the collapsed state of the Lungs previous to birth, they cannot receive the whole of the blood that enters the Right, or Pul- monic Ventricle, and hence probably one of the reasons for the third branch during that period. If the Left, or Systemic Auricle of the Foetus were only to receive the portion of blood that flows through the Lungs, it would only receive a small quanti- ty, compared to what must necessarily flow in the same time into the Right, or Pulmonic Auricle ; and if the Left did not contract until it was filled, the Right, or Pulmonic Auricle and Ventricle would necessarily contract oftener than the Left. To prevent this effect, the Septum, interposed between the two Auricles, is imperfect in the Foetus, and the blood flows from the Right to the Left through a passage called the Foramen Ovale. By this contrivance, the Right Auricle cannot be distended soon-274 A description of the arteries. the Aorta, the Right to be ramified on the Right Lobes, and the Left on the Left Lobes of the Lungs. This Artery, like the Aorta, is at its commence- ment furnished with three Semilunar Valves, to pre- vent the return of blood to the Ventricle. As the whole of the blood, which circulates through the Left, or Systemic Ventricle and the Aorta, circulates likewise through the Right Ventricle and Pulmonic er than the Left; whence they must contract at the same time, and if the two be of equal capacities, must convey equal quan- tities of blood to their respective Ventricles. The two Ventri- cles, contracting together after the Auricles, must also, if they be of equal capacities, convey equal quatities of blood in the same time to their respective Arteries. Or supposing neither the Auricle* nor Ventricles of the same capacities, but their actions synchronous, the Auricle with Auricle, and the Ven- tricle with Ventricle, contracting together, as we know is the case, in the healthy and regular motions of the system ; the Pulmonic Ventricle would then discharge a greater quantity of blood into the Lungs, than the Systemic, or Left Ventricle, in the same time could discharge into the system at large, or discharge a less quantity of blood into the Lungs, than would be sufficient to-support the action of the Systemic Ventricle and Artery; in either case, the blood would accumulate in the Veins, the Auricle, the Ventricle, or in the Artery that returns it to the Lungs,—an event which not unfrequently happens in the last moments previous to death, when the wonted force of the Heart is diminished, and the wonted resistance of the Lungs is increased from the languid and imperfect state of respiration.27a A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES, Artery, it might naturally be supposed that the two Ventricles, and the two Arteries, compared respec- tively, would be very nearly of equal capacities. Many, however, on comparing these organs, have found that the Right Auricle and Ventricle were larger than the left; and Helvetius saw that the branches of the Artery, ramified on the Lungs, were larger than the concomitant Veins. A number of learned and ingenious theories had been invented to explain these phenomena, until accurate experiment and observation showed that they originated from causes accidental; from accumulations of blood, in the greatest number of natural deaths, preventing the Right Auricle and Ventricle, and the branches of the Artery from contracting so much as tiiey would have contracted, had they been able to have emptied themselves into the vessels of the opposite side (x). The conclusion is confirmed by vrhat is frequently the state of the Colon ; if completely emptied previous to death, and the other Intestines found to retain their usual diameter, it is sometimes found the smallest of the whole. If the Aorta, near its commencement, and emptied of its blood, be still found larger than the Pulmonary Artery, it must occur to the Surgeon and Anatomist, from the (j) Sabatier. Memoire premiere. Trade Complet. D’Ana- tomic, tom. io.A description of the arteries. 276 frequency of Aneurism in the Arch of the Aorta, that the Aorta in that situation is liable to enlargements, though they cannot be strictly called Aneurismal. Mayow, who believed that the Lungs were in- tended to convey Oxygen, or what he called the JNitrum Aereum, into the blood to supply and dif- fuse the animal spirits, and to support muscular mo- tion (y), was doubtful whether the action of the „ (,J) “ Vlta> fallor in spin'tium animalium distributione „ C0!>SlStV qUlbUS SUpplendis> cord“ Pulsatione, sanguinisque , ad cerebrum affluxu opus est: et Videtur respirationem ad coi IS motmn, modo alibi dicendo, pracipue conducere. Enim „ Vei'° vensiniile quemvis musculorum motum sal hoc „ ae,'eUm °immn° necessarium esse j ita ut sine eodem neque coidis pulsatio fieri possit. “ Plane ut prwcipuus resperationis usus essse videatur, ut musculorum et pracipue cordis motus instituatur. Tract “ * ReSp'rat- P' 266- 2d8. Addo insuper quod parti- „ C“ n,tro;aereae "on minus quam ipsi spiritus animales ad Mtam sustmendam necessariaj sunt. Tract, it. cap. it. v. 321 “ C‘rCa SpiritUUm animalium indolem arbitrari liceat, eos sal- “ t6m qUatenUS iidem ad motum animalem conducunt e spiritu “ nitro-aereo constare.”—Ibid, p. 3H. Mayow, having persuaded himself that his Nitro-Aerial par- ticles, by mixing with the blood, were the primary cause of ir- ntabdity and muscular motion, next tried to explain how these motions, by causing agitation, collision, friction, and effer- vescence between the Nitro-Aerial particles and certain Salino- Sulphunc particles, produced likewise animal heat. His no- tion, however, respecting the manner in which the Nitrum Aereum operated, or was operated upon in the generation of277 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. Lungs should be deemed essential in promoting the circulation of the blood. He clearly proved, that it was not necessary in promoting that function in the animal temperature, was never at any time generally received. His other notion, that respiration was principally intended for transmitting Oxygen or the Nitrum Aereum into the system, has not only been general, but prevalent till lately; and hence the irritability of the muscular fibre, the processes of vitality, and consequently all the functions of the system, have for a while been made to depend upon the Oxidation, the Arteria- lization, or Oxygenation of the Sanguineous fluid. Again, it would appear from the numerous experiments of Mr. Ellis, that respiration contributes to support animal temperature, not by furnishing additional Oxygen, but by removing the excess of Carbon. Hippocrates and Galen, who supposed the existence of an tupjrst Ylvp, or Calor Nativus residing in the heart, imagined tiiat respiration was intended to supply it regularly with fresh and cool air to give it ventilation, and remove from around it the fuliginous vapours, with which it might otherwise have been extinguished. The learned Laurentius, who agrees here with Hippocrates and Galen, that the primary intention of respiration is to preserve the Calor Nativus, “ Est itaque pri- “ mus, hie respirationis usus. Conservatio caloris cordis, qu® “ fit reftigeratione etexpurgatione,” {Lib. ix. Quest, texix. Hist. Anal.) is also of opinion, that respiration rather takes from the blood than gives any thing to it, and accordingly observes, that the exspiration is more essential than the inspiration: “ Respondeo inspirare ut exspirent, Adest necessitas exspi- “ rationis ob copiam fuliginis non inspirationis.”—Ibid. Cicero, who did not think of applying his notion of heat to illustrate the nature of animal temperature, had an idea that278 A oescription op the arteries. Incubated Ovum, or Foetus in Utero, and seemed willing to infer, that it was not necessary to that function in the Adult (,). According to him the Placenta of the Foetus, is a Pulmo Uterinus [a) for supP1y,ng the blood with these Nitro-Acrial particles and when the Umbilical Cord is compressed before the respiration commences, the child dies from a want of air, not from the stoppage of the circulation. For w y, he aigues, should this compression stop the circulation, if the blood may flow as freely as efore through the Ductus Arteriosus and Foramen Ovale? To such an objection, he who is merely the motions of the blood in the Veins and Arteries, and the palpitation of the heart of an animal, when out of the body were owing to the vital power of the heat. Lib. n. Cap. ix 2 Natura Deorum; and, what is singular, believed that the air naturally, among the coldest of bodies, contained a very con- siderable quantity of it in a latent state. “ Ipse vero aer, qui natura est max.me fngidus, minime est expers Caloris ; ille “ vero et multo quidem calore admistus est "—Ibid, Cap. x Cicero, from the general train of his reasoning, was led to ima- gine what Dr. Black afterwards demonstrated. / (z) “ Imo sanSllis etiam per ipsos Puimones sine respira- “ tl0n'S ope transire P°test, ut alibi a nobis ostensum est”— Tract, tii. prope initium. “ Quinimo sanguinem per Puimones motu cessautes, transire posse alibi ostensum est”— Tract, iv. Cap. iv. t*a) “Proinde ut Pulmonem non amplius Jecur sed potius Pulmonem Uterinum, nunoupandumesse arbitror.”— Tract, iii.p. 279, Edit, IlagtE-Comitum.A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 279 an observer of nature, lias only to answer that it does not: He who conducts the operations of na- ture, can best reply to the question why ? But admitting with Mayow, that the primary and essential use of the Lungs is to transmit the Nitrum Aereum into the system, yet in those cases where the whole of the blood is circulated through them, it does not follow, that because their motions of in- spiration and of exspiration are at longer intervals than the Diastole and Systole of the Heart, that they therefore are not necessary to the circulation. Admitting, even on the older hypothesis of respira- tion, that it rather takes from, than gives to the blood, and that the Placenta is equally capable of of- ficiating as Lungs in the one capacity, as well as in the other., still it must be allowed, that not only the Placenta, but Umbilical Cord have also a dif- ferent function to perforin. They are the vehicles by which nourishment is partly prepared and conveyed to the Foetus. Previous to birth, the Uterus is employ- ed to furnish that nourishment; but after birth in the class of Mammalia, the Mammae are made to suc- ceed to the office; while the organs of digestion, and the Lacteal Absorbents, are made to succeed the Placenta and the Cord in preparing and conveying it to the Vascular System. This last office of the Placenta scarcely accords with any of the functions ascribed to the Lungs.280 A DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. The animal processes, in different genera and spe- cies of animals, require different degrees of tempera- ture, and therefore, if their internal temperature be raised or lowered, beyond a certain limited range t ey sicken or die. Many species have the power of preserving their internal temperature, amidst wide diversities of external temperature; those who have not, become torpid in the colder seasons, or are re- stricted to regions and climates, where the diversities of external temperature are more confined. Plants that have little of internal heat, if they inhabit the same latitudes, and require different degrees of tem- perature, are compelled to live at different altitudes from the level of the sea. Some species of animals have proportionally larger and some proportionally smaller Lungs of the same kind of structure. Some classes of animals have the whole of their blood circulated through the Pulmon- ary vessels; and some classes only a part of it. Where the Lungs are large in proportion to the body, where the whole blood is circulated through them’ or circulated rapidly, the temperature in general is high ; where only a portion of the blood passes through them, where they are small, or the blood circulated with a less velocity,' the temperature in general is proportionally low. Whether Carbon be discharged, or Oxygen receiv- ed, one of the intentions of respiration evidently isA description of the arteries. 281 to preserve the blood, or the circulating fluid, in that state which fits it for entering into those processes in which heat is evolved, and the internal tempera- ture supported. Without temperature, internal or external, no pro- cess in either the formation, or the preservation of animal or vegetable, has been ever carried on. Plants and animals are not reduced to the torpid state in the end of Autumn from deficiency of Oxygen, or excess of Carbon, but from want of temperature. Nor are they revived again in the Spring from any additional supply of Oxygen, or discharge of Carbon, but an increase of temperature. A requisite temperature must precede every process in which heat is either evolved or absorbed ; and if the processes, in which it is evolved, appear in their turn supporting the temperature, it is like the offspring supporting the parent, or like the offspring which, first being ge- nerated, generates in its turn. In short, it may be said, translating almost the language of Cicero, that every thing which lives, whether plant or ani- mal, lives by the vital agency of heat (6). (b) “ Omne quod vivit, sive animal, sive terra editum, id “ vivit propter inclusum in eo Calorem. iix quo intelligi debet, “ earn Caloris naturam vim habere in se vitalem, per omnem “ mundum pertinentem.”—De Natura Dcorum, Lib. ii. Cap. ix. In another place, Cicero characterizes the heat of the fire, or external heat, and the Calor Jnclusus, or internal heat, in the following manner: “Hie noster ignis, quern usus vitae requir'd,A description of the arteries. Animals that require a determinate range of ani- mal temperature, must, while in health, evolve less Caloric, when they are surrounded by a higher tem- perature, and more Caloric, when they are surround- ed by a lower temperature, than that of the vital standard within them. The Foetus in Utero is constantly surrounded by a temperature as high as that of the parent. To preserve, therefore, its natural range of animal tem- perature, it must necessarily after birth, when it is surrounded by a lower temperature, evolve a greater quantity of Caloric. This may in some measure ex- plain, why, previous to birth, much of the blood that flows m the Aorta, returns to the Aorta through the Ductus Arteriosus and Foramen Ovale (c), without confertorestet consumptor omnium, idemque, quoconque „ 1WT’ ClU‘Cta distUrbat ac diss,'Pat Contra Me corpo^eus, vital,s et salutaris, omnia conservat, alit, auget, sustmet, sensusque afficit.”—aw, Cap. (c) The Foramen Ovale is frequently found partially open even at a late period of life; and in a-female arrived at ma- tunty, and whose Heart and Thorax, 1 demonstrated in my Class, it remained almost entirely open, yet the Lungs quite sound, the appearance not bloated, nor the muscles more flac- cid than usual. After every inquiry, I am still ignorant of the symptoms with which this structure was attended. Where the Foramen continues open in the adult, the Lungs are deprived of their usual proportion of circulating flu,d. The Continuator of Bichat mentions a case where they had more than their usual proportion: A large branch from the Abdominal part of the Aorta, ascended in the Thorax, dividedA DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 283 circulating either through the Lungs or the Placenta; and why, after birth, the whole begins to be circu- lated through the Lungs, and that quantity of Caloric regularly evolved, which is necessary to support the vital heat amidst a surrounding temperature, that is lower than that to which it had previously been ac- customed. into two, and supplied the Inferior Lobes of the Lungs upon each side. “ Je ne dois point omettre ici un phenomAne anatomique “ fort singulier observe depuis peu. Sur le corps d’un enfant “ de sept ans, on trouva une Artere tres-volumineuse qui, nee “ de l’Aorte Abdominale au niveau de la Cceliaque, se recour- “boit superieurement, penetroit dans le Thorax par l’ouverture “ CEsophagienne du Diaphragme, et se divisoit aussitot derriere “ l’CEsophage en deux grosses branches qui s’enfonyoient dans “ les poumons par la partie infhrieure et posterieure de leur “ face interne, pour se distribuer de l’un et de l’autre cote a “ tout le lobe inferieur. Ces branches s’anastomosoient sen- “ siblement par plusieurs rameaux avec l’Artbre Pulmonaire “ Superieure, comme on s’en assura en injectant celle-ci. Les a Veincs Pulmonaires etoient disposees A la maniere ordinaire “ et se distribuoient egalement a toute l’Atendue des poumons, “ quoique les iob^s inferieurs ne refussent de vaisseaux ar- “ teriels que de la Pulmonaire Abdominale et que l’Artcre Pul- “ mouaire Superieure ne se distribuat qu’aux lobes superieurs. “ Cette observation trAs-curieuse dont aucun Anatomiste n’avoit “ cite d’exemple est due au Cit. Maugars d’Angers.” FINIS. James Clarke, Printer Coivgale, Edinburgh.• • T i JtniMir r— ■ ,inw un« - . •*'< V# ■ : “> .. - : * ** ‘ - - ■. ja - _• ■■ • ■ • - . . * ■ •^ ~ - ’ ■.' ■ ■ ' • ,%X