5 c^XitAidl 444^ /( fiJ Vv 22101424455Med K8649 XBERRIDGE HOUSE RECIPE BOOKBERRIDGE HOUSE RECIPE BOOK PRICE EIGHTEENPENCE BET LONDON National Society’s Depository 19 GREAT PETER STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. New York : Thomas Whittaker, 2 & 3 Bible House 1910 [All i■ ig h l .s- r esc rv c d]~L ( t HISTORICAL medical WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. QtCONTENTS PAGES Scullery Work : Cleaning of Ranges, Gas- Stoves, Metal, China and Wood . . . 1-8 COOKERY RECIPES. FIRST COURSE LESSONS I-IV. Stocks and Soups . . . 9-15 V-VIII. Fish, Fried, Boiled, Baked and Grilled .... 15-22 IX-XV. Meat Cookery, Stewing, Roasting, Boiling, Frying. Cold Meat Cookery . , 22-33 XVI-XVII. Puddings and’ Pastry . . 33-36 XVIII. Pastry . f . . . . 36-38 XIX-XXI. Vegetable-Cookery . . 38-42 XXII-XXV. Bread and Cakes . . . . 42-46 XXVI. Milk Puddings and Moulds . 46-48 XXVII-XXVIII. Puddings, Steamed and Baked 48-51 XXIX. Savoury Pudding . . . 51-52 XXX-XXXI. Salad. Egg Dishes . . . 52-55 XXXII. Batters 56-57VI CONTENTS SECOND COURSE LESSONS PAGES I. Sauces. Salad Dressing . . 58-61 II-IV. Stocks and Soups . . . 62-67 V-VIII. Fish. Hot and Cold Dishes. 67-73 IX-XV. Meat Dishes, Entries, &c. . 73-83 XVI-XX. Sweets, Hot and Cold . . 83-91 XXI. Vegetables (Dressed) . . 91-93 XXII-XXIII. Poultry and Game . . . 94-97 XXIV. Clarifying, Clear Soup, Jellies 98-99 SAVOURY AND SWEET XXV-XXVI. Creams. Fruit Dishes . . 100-103 XXVII-XXIX. Fancy Bread. Cakes . . 103-108 XXX. Curries 109-110 XXXI-XXXIII. Savouries. Breakfast Dishes. Beverages . . 110-115 Supplementary Recipes 116-144 Index 145-152 cBERRIDGE HOUSE RECIPE BOOK SCULLERY WORK SECTION THE KITCHEN RANGE All metal parts of a range or stove must be kept bright. The flues must be cleaned at least once a week, and some other stoves, such as American, require daily cleaning. To Clean Flues (1) Cover dresser, cupboards, and other furni- ture as far as possible, as soot is difficult to remove, and, being light, it is likely to settle in any part of the room. (2) Spread a cloth (preferably hessian) in front of the range. (3) Remove fender and fire irons, and take away cinders and ashes. (4) Sweep the stove. (5) Take out one flue-door in chimney and pass the brush up and down the flue. Repeat this process until all the top flues have been swept. As each flue is swept, replace the door to prevent draught. B2 SCULLERY WORK (6) Remove rings from hot plate and sweep flue over oven. In the same way sweep the side flues. (7) Rake the soot from beneath the oven and boiler and then brush. N.B.—All doors and rings must be carefully freed from soot before being replaced. Soot must be gathered in a shovel and gently dropped into a pail. It must not be mixed with cinders or ashes, or indeed wasted. It is useful in the garden, and a little mixed with blacklead helps to give a good polish. TO CLEAN A KITCHEN RANGE (1) Apply a small quantity of blacklead with a round brush or rag. (2) Polish until dry with a hard brush. (3) Polish with a soft brush. Begin at the top and work downwards until the stove is finished. The appearance of the stove is im- proved if, after polishing, it is rubbed with a soft black duster. (4) Steel parts may be cleaned with emery paper or powdered bathbrick and polished with a duster. (5) Brass must be polished as in directions for utensils of that metal. (6) Oven must be frequently washed out. N.B.—Before polishing, remove grease spots with a rag dipped in turpentine. If the stove be very greasy, scrub with hot soda water. To Clean a Stone Hearth (1) Wash with water and remove old hearth- stone, Scrub if necessary.SCULLERY WORK (3) Soap a damp cloth, dip in sand and scour. (2) Rub on the hearthstone. (3) Wring out the flannel and form into a pad. (4) Rub round and round and finish with straight even strokes to give the hearth a smooth appearance. Gas Stove After being used, while still hot, the inside of the oven must be wiped with a damp cloth. In this way much labour is saved. Once a week the sides, door, and shelves of the oven should be scoured with soap and sand, rinsed and dried. The outside parts that are greasy should be treated in the same way, care being taken to prevent water or sand getting in the burners. The bright metal parts must be cleaned in the same way as the kitchen range. Oil Stoves require the most careful cleaning, or they are objectionable. Each time an oil stove is used, the wick must be trimmed and every part of the lamps rubbed thoroughly dry. The lamps should be filled f full with good oil. Oil expands when heated. Metal parts must be polished according to previous directions. To Clean Iron Saucepans (1) After use saucepans should be filled with water. (2) Wash in hot soda water, using a brush if necessary.SCULLERY WORK 4 (4) Rinse and rub with a dry coarse cloth. (5) Stand in a warm place until thoroughly dry. (6) If the lid be of tin, polish the outside with whiting. Tins The majority of so-called ‘ tins ’ are com- posed of iron covered with tin to prevent rust. Tin being a soft metal, care must be taken to preserve it. To clean.—Use the same method as for an iron saucepan—all parts which do not come in contact with food must be polished as ‘ White Metal.’ To Clean ‘ White Metal ’ (1) Wash in hot soda water to remove grease. (2) Dry on soft cloth while hot. (3) Make a paste of whiting and water and rub on to the metal with a soft rag. (4) When dry rub off with a rag and polish with a duster and then a leather. Use a brush for crevices. To Clean Iron Spoons (1) Wash and dry. (2) Rub with a rag dipped in finely powdered bathbrick. (3) Polish with a duster. To Clean Steel Forks (1) Wash and dry. (2) Clean on the end of the knifeboard with powdered bathbrick or emery powder, using a cork for the crevices. (3) Dust thoroughly.SCULLERY WORK 5 To Clean Knives (1) Soak the blades in a jug of hot soda water and remove stains with monkey soap, line ashes or cut potato. (2) Wash and dry. (3) Polish on a knifeboard with a little finely powdered bathbrick, care being taken to exert even pressure, rubbing horizontally. Use rag for the shoulder. (4) Rub with a clean duster until all dust is removed. Brass and Copper These metals are largely used for kitchen utensils. Those that are in constant use should be tin-lined. The lining should be cleaned in the following way :— (1) Wash in hot soda water. (2) Scour with soap and sand. i (3) Rinse. (4) Dry. As soon as the lining shows signs of wear, utensil should be re-tinned. Brass and copper are capable of receiving a very high polish. Care must be taken to select smooth cleaning agents, as the surface is easily scratched and the appearance spoiled. Liquid polish, as a rule, is the most satisfac- tory. To Remove Stains from Brass and Copper (1) Rub with vinegar or cut lemon and salt. (2) Wash immediately to remove acid. (3) Dry well.SCULLERY WORK 6 To Polish (1) Apply a little liquid polish or paste with a soft rag. (2) Rub with another rag. (3) Polish with a duster and then with a leather. (4) Use a wooden skewer or soft brush for ornamental parts. Home-made Polish (shake before using) id. soft soap, id. rock ammonia, id. rotten stone, 1 pint boiling water. Mix soap and stone to a paste. Dissolve am- monia in water. Add gradually to the paste. CHINA, EARTHENWARE, AND ENAMELLED WARE (1) Scrape off all pieces and pack. (2) Wash in hot water softened with soda or soap, doing the cleanest first. (3) Wipe with dry clean towels. (4) If a plate rack be used, rinse in clean cold water instead of wiping. (5) Burnt marks and other stains may be removed with fine ashes or salt. (6) Handles and crevices of vegetable dishes, jugs, cups, &c., require special care in handling and cleaning. (7) After washing up is finished wash and dry the bowl and dish cloth.SCULLERY WORK 7 The Sink Only water should be thrown down the sink, and it must be kept clean inside and out by constant scrubbing with soap and water. The taps must be kept bright. The sink-pipe must be cleansed daily in the following manner :— (1) Place a handful of soda on the drain holes. (2) Pour on it a kettle of boiling water. (3) Flush the pipe with clean cold water. Galvanised Iron (1) Wash, rinse and dry after use. (2) If very dirty, scour with scrubbing paste— or soap and brickdust, or paraffin. (3) Rinse and dry. (4) Polish with dry bathbrick. Steel Baking Sheets and Frying-pans, &c. (1) Clean as iron saucepans. (2) Polish with emery paper, working in one direction only. (3) Use an old piece of emery paper to finish with to give a smooth appearance. (4) Rub with a clean duster. (5) For fine steel use powdered bathbrick. WOOD All the unpainted and unpolished woodwork of the kitchen must be kept clean by washing and scrubbing. To Remove Stains Rub with lemon juice and salt before scrub- bing.8 SCULLERY WORK The use of cold water preserves the whiteness of wood. Most wooden utensils are greasy, and therefore warm water is necessary to cleanse them, but it must be remembered that hot water warps wood and turns it yellow. Soda should only be used for very greasy chopping blocks, as it also spoils the appearance of wood. Wood must be rubbed as dry as possible with a coarse cloth and stood in the open air. Soap is necessary to remove dirt, but, unless carefully removed by rinsing, will spoil the colour of the wood. If wooden utensils are put away damp, they become mouldy. (1) Wash with warm water. (2) Soap the brush. (3) Scrub the way of the grain. (4) Rinse off the dirty soap. (5) Wipe dry the way of the grain. (6) Stand in a draught to dry. For neglected wood use scrubbing paste instead of soap. Boil all together in an old saucepan, stirring occasionally until thoroughly mixed. A little more water may be added. Keep in an earthenware jar. Rules for Scrubbing Recipe for Scrubbing Paste 1 lb. soft soap, 1 lb. whiting, 1 lb. sand, 1 qt. water.COOKERY RECIPES THE FIRST COURSE OF COOKERY LESSON I Sauces White Sauce i oz. flour, \ pt. milk, i oz. butter, or milk and stock, salt and pepper, Method.—Melt the butter in a lined pan. Cook the flour well in it, but do not let it brown. Remove from fire and add liquid gradually. Boil well—stirring all the time. When thoroughly cooked add seasoning, and if too thick a little more liquid. A squeeze of lemon juice may also be added. Parsley Sauce Above sauce made with stock and milk, plus one dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley.IO COOKERY RECIPES Caper Sauce Add to white sauce one tablespoonful of chopped capers, and one tablespoonful of liquor from capers. Anchovy Sauce White sauce made with fish stock and milk, with one dessertspoonful of anchovy essence and one drop of carmine, if necessary. Brown Sauce i oz. butter, i tomato or small piece i oz. flour, of carrot, i small onion, \ pt. brown stock, seasoning. Method.—Make a brown roux by frying the flour in the butter. Add the vegetables and the brown stock. Stir till boiling. Simmer at least half an hour. Season and strain. Note.—If the stock is not a good colour the onion should first be fried in the butter and removed before the roux is made. A little lemco or bovril may be added, or a drop of browning. Mint Sauce i tablespoonful of i dessertspoonful of chopped mint, water, i teaspoonful of sugar, i gill of vinegar. Method.—Wash and pick the mint. Dry, shred and chop the leaves. Dissolve sugar in water. Mix all together.11 FIRST COURSE Apple Sauce 4 apples, 2 tablespoonsful of 2 tablespoonsful of water, sugar, \ oz. butter. Method.—Pare, core, and quarter the apples. Stew them in the water and sugar till a pulp. Stir frequently and beat till smooth when cooked. Add the butter and serve very hot. Jam Sauce 2 tablespoonsful of jam, i tablespoonful of 1 gill of water, sugar, Carmine, if necessary. Method.—Boil sugar, jam and water together till a syrup. Strain, colour if necessary. Treacle Sauce 2 tablespoonsful of A squeeze of lemon syrup or treacle, juice. i gill of water, Method.—Boil together for io minutes. Custard Sauce i egg, i teaspoonful of corn- \ pt. milk, flour, i teaspoonful of sugar. Method.—Blend the cornflour with a little cold milk. Bring the remainder of the milk to the boil. Pour it over the cornflour, and return to the pan. Boil well. Allow to cool a little, add the sugar and egg. Cook till egg thickens.12 COOKER Y RECIPES LESSON II Bone Stock 4 lbs. bone, 5 pts. of cold water, i dozen peppercorns, Small carrot, i teaspoonful of salt, bunch herbs, i onion, small turnip. 2 stalks of celery, Method.—Place water and salt in a large pan or stock-pot. Wash bones well, removing all fat and marrow. Place them in the water. Bring slowly to the boil. Remove scum just before boiling. Boil for three hours. Add herbs, pepper- corns, and vegetables cut roughly. Simmer two or three hours longer. Strain. Remove fat the following day and use. 2 sheep’s or i ox melt, i dessertspoonful of Method.—Wash the melt and cut up into small pieces. Put into a pan with the water or stock and salt. Bring slowly to the boil. Re- move scum. Simmer about two hours, after the vegetables, &c,., have been added. Strain. Return to the pan and sprinkle in the sago. Boil till clear. .Season, if necessary, and serve. Melt Soup 1 onion, 2 cloves, i carrot, i qrt. stock or water, salt and pepper. sago,FIRST COURSE 1.3 Mutton Broth 2 lbs. neck of mutton, 1 onion, 1 qrt. of water, 1 small carrot, 2 oz. barley, 1 small turnip, seasoning, bunch of herbs. Method.—Cut the meat up finely, removing all fat and skin. Chop the bones, place them in the water with the seasonings and herbs. Simmer for 1 hour. Strain. Return to the pan with the meat, blanched barley, and vegetables, cut in small dice. Simmer for i| hour. Remove any fat with kitchen paper, season, and serve. LESSON III Lentil Soup 1 gill lentils, 3 small onions, 1 small turnip, 2 small carrots, salt and pepper, 1 qrt. water, 2 potatoes, bunch of herbs, 1 oz. dripping. Method.—Wash the lentils thoroughly. Soak over-night in one pint of the water. Scrub and prepare the vegetables. Cut into small pieces. Put into the pan with the dripping, place the lid on, and cook in the butter or dripping for five minutes. (This is called sweating the vegetables.) Add the lentils, water, herbs, and a pinch of carbonate of soda. Boil very gently till reduced to a pulp (about two hours). Season, and serve. Note.—If too thick, add a little boiling water. It should be the consistency of thick cream.COOKERY RECIPES 14 Pea Soup and Haricot Bean Soup are made in exactly the same way, the peas and haricots being soaked overnight. Milk (one gill) should be added, after sieving, to the haricot soup (carrot omitted). LESSON IV Potato i lb. potatoes, f pt. milk, i oz. dripping, if pt. water or stock, Soup 2 small onions, i dessertspoonful of sago, salt and pepper. Method.—Wash, peel, and cut the potatoes into slices. Cut the onion finely, and sweat with the potatoes in the dripping for five or ten minutes. Add the boiling stock or water. Simmer gently till reduced to a pulp (i to if hour). Add the milk and sago. Cook till sago is transparent. Season, and serve hot. It should be the consistency of thick cream. Brown Vegetable Soup 2 small carrots, 2 small turnips, 2 small onions, seasoning, bunch of herbs, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter or fat, i quart brown stock or water. Method.—Scrub, prepare and cut up the vegetables. Brown them in the fat. Remove from the pan and brown the flour. Add the boil- ing stock. Simmer till vegetables are tender. Sieve and season.>5 FIRST COURSE White Vegetable Soup 2 carrots, 2 small turnips i leek, i onion, salt, pepper, i bay leaf, i stick of celery. 1 oz. dripping, pt. milk. 2 oz. flour. i qrt. white stock or water. Method.—Prepare the vegetables and cut into long strips ; sweat for five minutes in the dripping. Add bay leaf and boiling stock or water. Boil till carrot is tender. Blend the flour with the milk. Stir into the soup, boil well; season and serve. Tomato and Rice Soup 4 tomatoes or i pt. if seasoning, tinned, i oz. butter, 1 onion, i qrt. white stock or 2 oz. rice, water. Method.—Chop the onion. Sweat in the butter. Cut the tomatoes into dice, and add with the boiling stock and rice (well washed). Simmer gently for three quarters of an hour. Season and serve. LESSON V CLEANING, SKINNING AND FILLETING OF FISH Fried Whiting Whiting, hot fat, egg and crumbs, parsley. Method.-—Clean, wash and skin the fish. Put the tail through the eyes. Dust lightly with well seasoned flour. Brush with egg, and toss in16 COOKERY RECIPES crumbs. Fry in smoking fat till golden brown. Drain and dish on hot dish. Garnish with fried parsley. To Fry Parsley Pick, wash and dry the parsley. Place in basket. Fry in smoking fat till the loud splutter- ing ceases. Drain and use. Fried Fillets of Plaice Wash plaice. Remove head and fins. Any blood or black skin should be removed by rubbing with salt. Make an incision down the natural line, and insert the knife between the fish and the ridge of the backbone. Remove the fillet by holding the knife close to the backbone and taking long cuts. Turn the fish and repeat, removing the four fillets. Place the fillet skin side down, and insert the knife between the tail end of fish and the skin. Work the knife along, raising the flesh from the skin. Dip in cold water. Dry. Cut in two. Season. Egg and crumb. Fry in hot fat. Drain. Arrange in a circle on a dish paper. Garnish with dust parsley and coraline pepper alternately, and little bunches of fried parsley round. Serve with fish sauce if for dinner. Fried Cod Steaks 2 cod steaks (i inch dripping, thick), milk, i tablespoonful of flour, parsley, salt and pepper, Method.—Have cod steaks very well washed and dried. Dip in milk and then into seasonedFIRST COURSE i7 flour. Coat thoroughly. Have a frying-pan with hot dripping ready. Place the steak in, and when golden brown on one side turn care- fully and cook the other side, basting well. When done, drain on soft paper. Place on a dish-paper, and garnish with parsley. If for dinner serve a fish sauce with them. LESSON VI Boiled White Fish Wash the fish thoroughly, using a little salt to remove any dark skin or blood. Tie into a good shape. Place on drainer. Have a pan of boiling water (sufficient to cover). Draw it to the side, add salt (one tablespoonful to the quart), and two tablespoonsful of vinegar. Place the fish in and allow the water to simmer gently till fish is done. Allow about seven minutes to each lb. and seven minutes over. When done the fins and tail bones will come away easily. For Salmon Allow ten minutes to each lb. and ten minutes over. Add no vinegar. Have water quite boiling when fish is put in, and boil for one or two minutes, then simmer, as salmon has a very tough skin. To Boil Mackerel Have the water tepid only, and cook very gently as skin is so delicate. cCOOKERY RECIPES 18 To Boil Salt Fish Soak fish overnight in cold water, with the skin side uppermost. Wash, scrape, and cut into neat pieces about four inches square. Place in cold water to boil, and boil gently till done (about three quarters of an hour). Lift the fish out carefully and coat with egg sauce. White sauce, to which one hard-boiled chopped egg is added. Fish Stewed in Milk i cod steak or plaice, ^ oz. fat, salt and pepper, } pt. milk, i dessertspoonful of flour, i dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Method,—Wash the fish, make the milk hot in a stewpan. Place the fish in, add salt, and stew gently till tender (about twenty to thirty minutes). Place the fish on a hot dish. Blend the flour with a little cold milk. Pour the warm milk on. Return to the pan, boil well. Add the fat, seasoning, and chopped parsley. Coat the fish and serve at once. Soused Mackerel or Herring Clean the mackerel. Cut off the tail and fins. Remove the eyes. Wash in salt and water. Place in a pie-dish. Cover with vinegar and water (in equal quantities). Add one bay leaf, one blade mace, and a few peppercorns. Cook in a mode- rate oven till tender. Serve in the dish. Herring is done in the same way. The roe should be replaced after cleaning.FIRST COURSE 19 LESSON VII Grilled Fish Cod steak, mackerel, or herring. Brush with dripping, season, and grill before a clear fire, turning frequently till done. Serve anchovy sauce if white fish. Grilled Herring Remove the heads. Wash and cleanse thoroughly without breaking. Score with a knife Brush with dissolved dripping and grill as above. Serve with mustard sauce. Half a pint white sauce to which 1 teaspoon- ful of made mustard has been added. Bloaters are done in the same way. Baked Stuffed Haddock 1 haddock (about lb.), 21Hablespoonsful of ' breadcrumbs, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, i-§ 1 oz. butter, dripping, or finely chopped suet. £ teaspoonful of dried herbs, 1 egg, salt and pepper. Method.—Wash, scale, and dry the . fish. Remove the eyes. Prepare a stuffing with the breadcrumbs, parsley, herbs, dripping, pepper and salt. Moisten with egg. Form into a roll and place inside the fish. Sew up the opening. Put the tail through the eyes, or truss in S shape. Brush over with the remaining egg and dust with breadcrumbs. Place a few pieces of dripping on top. Bake for about half an hour in a moderate oven. Remove the cotton and serve with parsleyCOOKERY RECIPES 20 sauce. Milk can be used to bind forcemeat in place of egg. Baked Stuffed Herring Three herrings, Veal forcemeat, as in ‘ baked haddock.’ Method.—Remove head. Split herring and make thoroughly clean. Remove backbone. Replace roe. Place one teaspoonful of forcemeat on tail end. Season fish, roll up. Place on a greased tin. Sprinkle with browned crumbs. Put a small piece of butter on each. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes till done. * Baked Stuffed Plaice One plaice skinned and filleted. Sprinkle fillets with veal forcemeat. Roll up from broad end. Skewer. Bake in a greased tin, covered with greased paper. Coat with white fish sauce. Garnish with parsley and lemon butterflies. LESSON VIII Fish Pie Cold fish (+ lb.), -} oz. butter, seasoning, £ pt. white sauce, 4 or 5 mashed potatoes, a little milk. Method.—Flake the fish. Mix with well- seasoned white sauce. Pour into pie-dish. Add butter, milk, and seasonings to the mashed potatoes. Pile on top of fish, smooth, and mark with dinner knife. Heat through and brown in quick oven.FIRST COURSE 21 Fish Pudding ^ lb. cold fish, •§• lb. cold potatoes, white sauce or milk to bind, chopped parsley, anchovy essence, seasonings. Method.—Flake fish and mix with mashed potatoes. Add parsley and seasonings. Make fairly moist with white sauce. Grease well a small basin. Sprinkle with browned crumbs. Place mixture in, and bake till firm. Turn out, and serve with fish sauce. Fish 4 oz. cold fish, 4 oz. mashed potatoes, salt and pepper, egg and crumbs, Cakes \ oz. melted butter, egg to bind, parsley to garnish. Method.—Mix fish and potatoes. Add season- ing and melted butter, also sufficient egg to bind. Form into a roll, using a few crumbs. Cut into eight pieces. Roll into balls, and form into cakes. Egg, crumb. Fry in hot fat. Drain. Dish in a circle. Garnish with fried parsley. Fish Mould \ lb. cold fish, 2 eggs, seasoning, 2 tablespoonsful of breadcrumbs, 2 tablespoonsful of melted butter, £ teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonsful of white sauce. Method.—Soak crumbs in a little milk. Squeeze dry in clean towel. Pound fish with the butter. Add bread crumbs, eggs, and seasoning.22 COOKER Y RECIPES Mix well. Steam in a buttered tin for half an hour. Serve with anchovy sauce, poured over and round. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley. LESSON IX Stewed Mutton and Peas i lb. neck of mutton, ^ pt. of water, i gill peas (dried), i onion (chopped), salt and pepper, Method.—Chine the mutton and cut it into chops. Place in stewpan with enough water to cover with the onion (chopped) and seasonings. Have peas soaked overnight. Boil them for about one hour, and stew them with the mutton for about twenty minutes before serving. When done, dish neatly with the peas in the centre. Pour the gravy round. Method.—Peel and slice the potatoes. Peel and cut the onions (not in rings). Cut up the meat. Place a layer of potatoes, then onions, then meat into the stewpan. Season well. Re- peat layers, finishing with potatoes. Add water. Cover closely. Simmer gently for about two hours. Stir occasionally to prevent potatoes sticking to the pan and burning. Above ingredients arranged in a hot-pot jar. Cook in oven for three hours. Serve in jar with a serviette pinned round. Irish Stew 2 lbs. potatoes, i lb. mutton, salt, 4 onions, ^ pt. of water, pepper. Hot Pot23 FIRST COURSE LESSON X Sea Pie 1 lb. lean beef, 1 carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 onion, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, salt and pepper, celery, cold water. Crust \ lb. flour, i lb. suet, •| teaspoonful of water, baking powder, Method.—Cut meat in pieces, dip in seasoned flour. Scrape and cut carrot into dice. Peel turnip and onion and cut also into neat pieces. Place meat and vegetables into a moderate-sized stewpan. Add just enough water to cover, and bring to the boil. Make suet crust and roll out just the size of the lid. Place on top of meat. Simmer gently one and a-half to two hours. Loosen crust from sides of pan now and then. To serve : Cut crust across into four, and remove on to a hot plate with fish slice. If sufficiently seasoned, pile meat, &c., on an ashet, place crust on top. 2 large onions, Method.—Wash the dressed tripe. Blanch, scrape, and return to pan cut in neat pieces. Add milk, and simmer one hour (seasonings also). Have Stewed Tripe 1 lb. tripe, 1 oz. flour, salt and pepper, 1 pt. skim milk, croutons of toast, parsley.24 COOKER Y RECIPES onions boiled ; chop them finely. Blend flour with a little cold milk, add it, and stir till boiling ; then add the onions. Mix well, and if sufficiently seasoned pile on a hot dish and garnish with croutons of toast and parsley. Stewed Beef i lb. beef (shin or any cheap part may be used), i carrot, i turnip (small), \ pt. water, a little vinegar, i dessertspoonful of flour, salt and pepper, onion. Method.—Cut beef into neat pieces. If very tough, dip each in vinegar to soften the fibres. Prepare and cut vegetables into dice, place in stewpan with the meat and water. Simmer gently till tender (two to three hours). Have flour blended with half gill of water. Add and stir till it boils and cooks the flour. Season and pile on hot ashet. N.B.—For household cookery use beefsteak, and brown meat and onion in i oz. white fat. Cut best part of carrot and turnip into neat shapes. Cook separately and use to garnish the dish. The rough pieces are used to flavour the stew, and strained off when meat is dished. LESSON XI. Roast Beef Sirloin, rib, or any suitable joint for roasting. Weigh meat and calculate time for cooking, according to size and shape. Allow about fifteen25 FIRST COURSE minutes to each lb. and fifteen minutes over. Wipe the meat. Place dripping for basting on roasting pan, allow it to become hot. Place meat on trivet, baste it, and return to oven, which must be very hot, until the outside of the meat is sealed up and browned. Baste very frequently till done. Place on hot ashet. Pour off fat. Sprinkle salt on tin, stir among the sediment and brown it. Add sufficient stock or water to make the required gravy. Add pepper and boil up. Remove any grease. Pour a little round the joint, and serve the remainder in a hot sauceboat. Serve with Yorkshire pudding (Lesson XXXII.). Rolled Stuffed Breast of Mutton 1 breast of mutton (boned), stuffing, 3 oz. breadcrumbs, £ teaspoonful of thyme and marjoram, i-| oz. suet, dripping, to baste, 2 oz. 1 egg> 1 dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, seasoning. Method.—Carefully remove bones frommutton. Wipe the meat. Bat out if necessary. Make stuffing and spread it over the meat. Roll up and fasten securely with string or tape. Calculate time for roasting, allowing twenty-five minutes to each lb. and twenty-five over. Baste fre- quently. The bones should be simmered in water to make stock for gravy. When done pour off all the fat. Sprinkle in salt, and make gravy in the usual way, or, if a thickened gravy is required, leave a little fat with the sediment, and brown one dessertspoonful of flour in it before adding the stock.COOKERY RECIPES 26 Roast Pork Pork may be roasted in the same way as beef, allowing twenty-five minutes to each lb. and twenty-five minutes over. Serve with gravy from which all grease has been removed, and apple sauce. It may also be stuffed with the following : Sage and Onion Stuffing 4 large onions, i teaspoonful of sage, lb. breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, milk or egg to bind. Method [use half the quantity for small joint).— Parboil and chop the onions. Mix all the in- gredients together, season well, and bind with egg or milk. Use to stuff meat, or bake in a well- greased dripping-tin till cooked and firm. Cut in squares, dish on dish-paper on hot ashet. Roast Heart 1 sheep’s heart, 2 tablespoonsful of breadcrumbs, Small piece onion (chopped), i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, i dessertspoonful of chopped suet. I teaspoonful of herbs, salt and pepper, milk to mix. Method.—Cleanse the heart thoroughly, re- moving tubes and any blood from centre. Remove flaps of muscle from base. Mix the stuffing, season well, and bind with the milk. Place in centre. Sew up or skewer the opening. Make 2 oz. fat hot in a pan. Brown the heart, draw to side of the stove. Put on the lid and cook gently for an hour and a half, or till tender.27 FIRST COURSE Baste constantly. When done, pour off some of the fat. Stir in about one dessertspoonful of flour. Brown it. Add one gill of water, season, boil up, pour round the heart. This may be.done in the oven if liked. LESSON XII Boiled Mutton Joint the meat, if necessary, so that it can be easily carved. Remove chine bone, gristle or any superfluous fat present. Weigh it. Wipe and tie into a neat shape. Plunge into a pan of boiling water. Boil for five minutes to seal outside. Simmer gently till tender. Allow twenty minutes to each lb. and twenty over for joint, such as leg. Coarser pieces take longer. Small joints take longer to cook in proportion to large ones. Salt should not be added till meat is half cooked. All scum should be removed. Carrots, turnips, and onions may be boiled with the.meat. When done, place on hot dish. Coat with caper or parsley sauce, and arrange the vegetables round the dish in piles. Boiled Salt Beef, Pork, or Bacon Pork or bacon may be boiled in the same way; but these should be placed in teipd water to begin with, instead of boiling water. When done, dish the beef or pork on a hot ashet, with piles of vegetables round. A jug of stock may be served with it, or mustard sauce, if liked. Boiled Ham Method.—Soak ham in cold water for several hours. Scrape it, and put into tepid water withCOOKERY RECIPES 28 an onion stuck with cloves. Bring to the boil, and boil for five minutes. Simmer till tender, remove any scum as it rises. When done, allow to cool in the liquor ; then remove the skin, and either glaze or sprinkle with browned crumbs. Method.—Wash the head thoroughly. Allow it to lie in salt and water. Trim, cleanse thoroughly, removing all the nose bones and the brain. Place in cold water and bring to boil. Pour off the water and scrape if necessary. Wash well and place in boiling water. Simmer for about three hours till tender. The brain should be well washed, after soaking in salt and water, tied in a piece of muslin and cooked with the head for about one hour. When done remove the meat from the bones. Dish and coat with parsley sauce. Garnish with the tongue (skinned) and the brain seasoned and chopped, and placed in piles round the dish. Method.—Wash the liver thoroughly, dry it, and cut it in slices. Remove any tubing. Cut the bacon into thin slices ; fry it in a hot pan. Keep bacon hot. Dip slices of liver into flour, well seasoned with salt and pepper. Fry in the bacon fat; when browned and thoroughly cooked dish with bacon round or piled on top. If there is Boiled Sheep’s Head LESSON XIII Liver and Bacon i lb. liver, ^ lb. bacon, i oz. seasoned flour, \ pt. water.FIRST COURSE 29 too much fat remaining in pan pour a little away. Stir remainder of flour in, brown it, and add the water. Boil well; if sufficiently seasoned pour round the dish. Sausages on Toast Method.—Prick the sausages with a fork to prevent the skins bursting. Plave sufficient drip- ping to cover the frying-pan. When hot lay the sausages in ; fry carefully, and dish on a neat slice of toast. Garnish with fresh parsley. Grilled Chop Wipe the chop, and truss it into a neat shape. Have a red fire or a very hot grill. Grease the griller bars with suet, and place the chops on. Grill, turning every two minutes with an iron spoon or tongs until done. Allow about ten minutes for a thick chop. Season and serve at once on a hot dish. Bread sauce is sometimes served with grilled chops. LESSON XIV Meat Pasty (Shepherd’s Pie) About \ lb. cold meat ■§• teaspoonful of flour, (minced), 6 or 8 boiled potatoes, ■i gill to 1 gill stock, 2 tablespoonsful of milk, gravy, or brown salt ancl pepper, sauce, -l oz. dripping or butter. Method.—Season the meat, place it in a pie- dish, mix the flour with the gravy, and pour it over30 COOKERY RECIPES the meat. Mash the potatoes with the dripping, milk, salt and pepper. Spread over the meat, piling it in the centre. Smooth with a knife dipped in milk. Mark nicely, and brown m the oven. Meat Cakes \ lb. cold meat, egg and crumbs, \ lb. mashed potatoes, i oz. melted fat, salt, pepper, stock or egg to bind. Method.—Mix the meat and potatoes, season, and add melted dripping, half an egg, and stock or milk if necessary. Form into a roll on a floured board. Cut into cakes of equal size. Form neatly with paletteknife, coat with egg and crumbs, and fry a golden brown. Dish in a circle. Garnish with parsley. These can be coated with milk and flour, and fried in shallow fat. Mince Cold meat (about ^ lb.), i oz. flour, i oz. butter, ^ pt. brown stock or gravy, salt, pepper. 5 potatoes (mashed), i oz. white fat, dripping, or butter, seasoning, a little milk. - Make into border. i Method.—Chop meat finely, removing fat and gristle. Make brown roux with butter and flour. Add stock ; boil well, season, add the meat, and heat through. Dish in a border of mashed potatoes and garnish with parsley.3i FIRST COURSE Hash of 1 dessertspoonful ketchup, seasoning, sippets of toast, dipped in parsley. Some cold meat, cut in neat pieces,4 1 onion, 1 oz. fat, 1 oz. flour, •§• pt. stock, Method.—Fry onion (cut in rings). Remove it and brown flour, adding a little more fat if necessary. Add stock. Cook well. Season; return onion, and add the pieces of meat. Allow all to become thoroughly hot. Serve on a hot dish, garnished with toast. LESSON XV Boiled Rabbit 1 rabbit, 1 pt. sauce (onion or Rolls of bacon parsley). Method.—Cut off the legs at the first joint, also the ears. Remove the eyes. Remove the skins, beginning with the flaps and body, then hind legs, fore legs, and lastly the head. Wash very well in salted water. Dr}/. Truss by drawing hind legs forward, slitting them and fore legs back. Turn the head round to the side and make the rabbit lie as flat as possible. Secure with string. Place in a white lined pan with enough boiling water to cover. Simmer till tender. Boil the liver with the rabbit, then chop it finely. When rabbit is tender, place on a hot ashet, remove skewers, and coat with sauce. Garnish with chopped liver. Salt should be added to the water when half cooked.32 COOKERY RECIPES Roast Rabbit 1 rabbit, fat bacon, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, &c. bread sauce, for veal stuffing, fat to baste. Method.—Prepare rabbit in usual way. Place the stuffing in the body and sew up. Truss in arch, drawing fore legs back and hind legs forward. Skewer the head up ; fasten skewers with string. Place fat bacon and a few pieces of fat on top. Roll in greased paper. Have dripping hot in pan. Place rabbit on trivet and baste well. Roast first in hot oven and then rather slowly for about one hour till tender, basting very frequently. When done, dish on a hot ashet; remove string, &c. Make gravy in usual way ; pour a little round, ■also little piles of bacon rolls. Serve remainder in a sauce boat. Serve also bread sauce (about half a pint). Veal Stuffing 2 oz. crumbs, i teaspoonful of i oz^ehepperTsuet, "** chopped parsley, grated lemon rind, mixed herbs (^teaspoon- salt and pepper, ful) milk or egg to bind. Mix all together. Stewed i rabbit, | pt. stock, i onion, carrot, turnip, i-i- oz. flour, Method. — Cut into neat joints. Rabbit i-} oz. butter, salt and pepper, croutons of toast, chopped parsle}^. rabbit thoroughly dry. Dip each in seasoned flour. Wash theFIRS7' COURSE 33 Melt the fat. When smoking quickly brown the joints (after browning the onion). Add a little fat if necessary. Brown the flour, add the stock, and bring to the boil. Season. Add the rabbit and vegetables (cut up). Simmer till tender (about one and a half to two hours). Dish up the joints and strain the gravy over. Garnish with toast or fried bread dipped in parsley. Rolls of grilled bacon may also be used to garnish. Method.—Chop suet finely. Mix dry ingre- dients. Mix to a fairly stiff dough with cold water. Turn on to floured board. Form into round or long roll. Tie in a cloth (previously dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry and dredged with flour). Place in a pan of boiling water and boil for 2 hours. Turn out, and serve with jam or treacle sauce. Make suet crust as above. Roll out into an oblong piece. Wet edges. Spread with jam. Roll up. Fasten edges securely. Place in pre- pared cloth. Tie at both ends. Secure in centre with safety pin. Boil for two hours. LESSON XVI Boiled Suet Pudding \ lb. flour, 3 oz. suet, pinch salt, cold water, \ teaspoonful of baking powder may be added. Jam Roley DCOOKERY RECIPES 34 Boiled Fruit Pudding i 6 oz. suet crust, 2 tablespoonsful of raw 4 or 5 apples, sugar, a little water. Method.—Grease a basin, and prepare pudding- cloth. Make suet crust, and put aside a small piece for top. Roll remainder into round. Flour, and fold it in four. Line basin, pressing it care- fully in to avoid cracks. Peel, core, and cut up apples. Half fill basin, add sugar and water (about one tablespoonful). Fill with apples. Trim any rough edges from pastry, and add to piece for top. Wet edges. Roll out round, and fit it in against lining, and overlap the edges. Cover with cloth, leaving a fold across. Tie firmly half way down basin. Draw up edges of cloth, and tie together to form a handle. Boil for two and a half hours. Turn on to hot dish. LESSON XVII Fruit Tart 6 oz. flour, 2 oz. raw sugar. 3 oz. of margarine or £ teaspoonful of baking butter, powder, pinch salt, i teaspoonful of sugar, 6 apples, cold water. Method.—Peel, core, and cut up apples, and half-fill pie-dish ; add sugar and a little water. Pile the apples well up in dish. Make pastry. Short Crust Rub the butter into the flour, and add dry ingredients. Make into a very stiff paste, mixingD 2 • \ FIRST COURSE 35 with a dinner knife'. Roll out a little larger than pie-dish.‘ Cut edges off for rims. Wet edges of dish, and place cut edges out over- lapping each piece. Place on cover, after wetting edges. Press together and cut care- fully round. Brush with egg and bake in a quick oven at first; cover with paper when pastry is a golden brown. It takes from half to three- quarters of an hour. It may be sprinkled with castor sugar. Open Jam Tait 6 oz. short crust, 6 oz. flour, jam, 3 oz. shortening, Method.—Roll out pastry, and cut a strip about one inch wide for edges. Grease a tartlet tin and wet edges. Roll remainder of pastry to fit. Place it in, wet edges, and place the band on top. Ornament by cutting with scissors. Fill centre with jam. Decorate with strips of pastry, forming diamonds across the jam dish. Small Tartlets These are done in the same way, omitting the band of pastry on the edges. Treacle Pastry 12 oz. short crust, 8 tablespoonsful treacle \ ■k lb. breadcrumbs, (Mix to a thick paste), juice of 1 lemon (large), j Method.—Roll the pastry into two thin slabs about ten inches square, top rather smaller; wet36 COOKERY RECIPES edges of one slab, after placing it on tin. Spread treacle mixture over to within one inch of edges. Place second slab on top and turn edges over. Mark into squares. Bake in a quick oven till golden brown all over. Cover with paper, and bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. Cut into squares and dust with castor sugar. LESSON XVIII Beef Steak Pie i lb. beef steak, i tablespoonful of £ lb. ox kidney or water, i sheep’s kidney, i tablespoonful of flour, i small teaspoon fill of ) sap- I \ gill stock or water £ small teaspoonful of h when cooked. pepper, \ lb. flaky pastry, egg to brush over. Method.—Make pastry and set aside for about one hour. Cut the meat in strips, dip in seasoned flour, place a small piece of fat in each and roll up. Wash the kidney, remove tubing, fat, and skin. Cut in neat pieces, coat with seasoned flour. Place meat and kidney in layers in pie-dish ; add one tablespoonful of water. Roll pastry out rather larger than pie-dish. Cut strips to fit edge. Wet the edges and place these on, over- lapping about one inch and having the cut edge out. Wet edge and place on cover. Fasten to strip of pastry and cut round. Flake edges and cut hole in centre. Brush with egg. Place leaves of pastry and twist round the hole. Bake in a veryFIRST COURSE 37 hot oven till golden brown, and fully risen. Cover, and when edges are baked and brown also move to a cooler part to finish cooking the meat (about one and a half to two hours). Fill up with hot stock. Place on an asliet with pie frill round, garnish with parsley. Flaky Pastry ■§ lb. flour, a squeeze of lemon, 6 oz. margarine or cold water, butter, and lard, pinch of salt. Method.—Place the flour in a basin, add salt. Rub in about one oz. of the shortening; add squeeze of lemon to cold water and mix pastry to an elastic consistency. Roll out on a floured board into a long strip. Divide the remainder of the shortening into three. Flake one portion two-thirds down the pastry, fold in three, turn (open edges to and from you), roll out, and repeat till all the shortening is rolled in. Set aside for half an hour. Roll thrice more, five times in all. If possible, set aside in a cool place for one hour. Sausage Rolls \ lb. flaky pastry, egg to glaze. 4 sausages, Method— Roll pastry into thin slab. Cut in squares. Place sausages in boiling water for three minutes. Remove the skins and cut each in two or four. Place in square of pastry. Fold over, join edges, or flake them. Mark across and brush with egg. Bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes.38 COOKER Y RECIPES Cold Meat Patties 4 lb. flaky pastry, 2 oz. cold meat (minced), 4 oz. breadcrumbs, salt and pepper, 2 tablespoonsful of stock (about). Mixed. Method.—Roll out pastry, cut in rounds ; line patty tins. Place a tablespoonful of mixture in each. Wet the edges. Place on the top, and press together. Make a small hole in each and flake edges and brush with egg. Bake in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. LESSON XIX Potatoes Boiled Potatoes Choose potatoes of an equal size. Scrub and peel them. Place in a clean pan, cover with cold water if old—(boiling water if new) ; add salt. Boil till soft, when tried with a skewer (about twenty-five minutes). Pour off the water. Steam till dry. Note.—If potatoes are unequal in size put the larger ones into pan first and boil for a few minutes before the small ones are added. Fried Whole Parboil potatoes of equal size. Have some fat hot in a frying pan, brown the potatoes and cook till quite soft. Season with salt and pepper,FIRST COURSE 39 drain on crushed paper. Dish on a dish-paper on hot vegetable dish. Garnish with parsley. Potatoes may be parboiled, cut in slices, and fried. Mashed Potatoes Boil and steam four or five potatoes till dry. Mash and beat till creamy with a fork, add about half oz. butter or dripping, a little milk (about two tablespoonfuls), salt and pepper. Pile on a hot dish. Smooth and mark with a knife. Serve very hot. Baked in Skins Scrub and dry the potatoes. Place on a tin and bake in the oven till soft. Dish in a folded serviette. Baked Have two large tablespoonsful of dripping hot in a tin, and place the peeled potatoes in ; baste; bake till a golden brown and soft, basting and turning frequently. Sprinkle with salt, drain and serve. LESSON XX Root Vegetables Boiled Turnips (Mashed) Peel and cut turnips into rough pieces. Place in pan, cover with water, add salt. Boil till tender. Drain. Mash. Squeeze dry in a corner of a clean towel. Return to pan. Add a piece of butter and sufficient salt and pepper to season. Pile on a hot dish. Mark with a knife and serve at once.COOKERY RECIPES 40 Boiled Carrots Scrub and scrape the carrots. Cut off tops and roots. (If large, cut in pieces). Cover with water, add salt, and boil till tender. Strain. Place some butter in the pan. Shake gently so as to coat the carrots, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and seasoning. If new vegetables, put in boiling, not cold water. Carrots should be dished standing straight up. Parsnips Boil in same way in white-lined pan. Strain off water. Dish plainly or coat with white sauce. Leeks Remove tops and outside leaves. Wash and leave in cold water and salt. Tie in bundles. Place in white-lined pan of boiling salted water to which carbonate of soda has been added. When quite tender, drain. Place on toast, and coat with white sauce. Garnish with chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Boiled Onions Spanish onions. Salt. White Sauce. Peel the onions. Boil in salted water till tender. Drain and coat with white sauce. Garnish with chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Baked Stuffed Onions Parboil three Spanish onions. Drain. Mix two tablespoonsful of minced meat with a little brown stock or gravy. Season well. Scoop out about one teaspoonful from centre of onions. Fill4« FIRST COURSE with meat mixture and bake till tender, in a moderate oven. Dish on hot dish. Pour some brown gravy round. Garnish with parsley. LESSON XXI Green Vegetables Boiled Cabbage Remove outside coarse and withered leaves. Cut in quarters. Soak in cold salted water (too much salt kills the insects in the cabbage ; sufficient only should be added to draw them out). Have a pan of boiling salted water ready. Add a pinch of carbonate of soda. Place the cabbage in and boil quickly and without a lid till tender. Pour into a colander. Remove any coarse stalks. Press all water out. Place in a hot vegetable dish. Season. (A little hot melted butter may be added). Smooth and cut across. Serve at once. Boiled Beans String and slice the beans. Wash well in salt and water. Have a pan of boiling salted water ready. Add carbonate of soda. Boil beans quickly till tender. Strain. Return to pan with a little butter, salt, and pepper. Shake over fire. Pile on a hot vegetable dish. Boiled Marrow Peel the marrow. Cut it and remove the seeds. Cut in neat pieces. Place in a pan of boiling salted water. Boil gently till tender. Drain. Dish on toast. Coat with white sauce. Garnish.COOKER V RECIPES 42 Cauliflower Remove withered leaves and stalks, only leaving the tender leaves round. Place two skewers into the root and boil as above. Drain. Dish on a hot dish, and coat with white sauce. LESSON XXII Yeast White Bread i lb. flour, \ to i oz. yeast, i teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of sugar, About i pint warm water. Method.—Test the yeast by rubbing it down with the sugar. Add about one tablespoonful of tepid water. Cover and set it to rise. Have the flour warm. When the yeast has frothed pour it into a well in centre of flour. Sprinkle flour over. Sprinkle the salt round the edges. Set in a warm place. When yeast has cracked through, mix in the water (tepid). Knead till smooth (elastic). Set in a warm place covered with a towel till it is double the size. Knead again and make into loaves. Prove for about twenty minutes. Bake in a very quick oven at first, and finish in a cooler place. They are done when they sound hollow on being tapped. Brown Bread 2 lb. wholemeal, 1 oz. German yeast, 2 teaspoonsful of salt, i teaspoonful of sugar, About i pint lukewarm milk and water. Method.—Make as white bread.FIRST COURSE 43 all the dry ingredients. Mix to a light dough The amount of yeast added depends on the time given to allow it to rise (one oz. will raise as much as 6 lb. flour). Yorkshire Tea Cakes i lb. flour, i teaspoonful of salt, i oz. sugar, 2 oz. lard and butter, | to i oz. yeast, | pint milk (about). 1 egg> Method.—Warm the flour. Test yeast and pour it into centre. Sprinkle salt and remainder of sugar round. Set to sponge. Melt butter and lard in milk. Add it to beaten egg, reserving a little for brushing over. Stir into the yeast when it has frothed through the flour. Beat well, knead and set to rise in a warm place. When double its size knead again and form into four rounds. Prove for fifteen or twenty minutes. Brush with egg. Bake in a hot oven (at first) from twenty to thirty minutes. LESSON XXIII Scones White Scones \ lb. flour, £ teaspoonful of baking l oz. sugar, soda l teaspoonful of cream \ teaspoonful of salt, of tartar, About i gill milk, i oz. butter, Method.—Rub the butter into the flour. Add44 COOKERY RECIPES with the milk. Knead very lightly till smooth. Roll out into a round. Cut into eight scones. Lay on a greased tin. Brush with egg or milk. Bake from seven to ten minutes in a very quick oven. Brown Scones Ingredients As above, using £ lb. wholemeal, lb. flour, instead of all flour. Currant Scones \ lb. flour, i oz. currants, | oz. sugar, About i gill milk, i oz. butter, Method.—Make as cleaned currants to dr l teaspoonful of salt, | teaspoonful of cream of tartar, £ teaspoonful of carbon- ate of soda. for white scones, adding ingredients. LESSON XXIV Plain Currant Cake \ lb. flour, 3 oz. butter and lard, 3 oz. sugar, i gill milk, l lb. currants, \\ oz. chopped peel, V'Sgg- f ceaspoonful of baking powder. Method.—Rub fat into flour. Add all the dry ingredients. Beat egg well and mix it in with sufficient milk to make to rather a stiff paste. Beat well. Bake in a greased tin for about one hour.45 FIRST COURSE Plain Seed Cake | lb. flour, salt, 3 oz. sugar, i egg, 3 oz. lard and butter, i teaspoonful of baking i gill milk, powder. \ oz. seeds, Method.—As for currant cake. Gingerbread io oz. flour, \ teaspoonful carbonate | to i oz. peel, of soda, 3 oz. lard, 2 teaspoonsful ground | lb. treacle, ginger, 3 oz. sugar, i gill milk, \ teaspoonful of salt, i egg. Method.—Rub the fat into the flour. Mix in chopped peel, sugar, salt, and ground ginger. Mix egg and treacle. Add these and beat well. Mix soda with milk, and mix it in thoroughly. Bake in a prepared Yorkshire-pudding tin in a moderate oven. LESSON XXV Small Cakes Rock Cakes \ lb. flour, 2 oz. lard, 2 oz. sugar, milk, 2 oz. currants, 1 egg, &lit, i teaspoonful of baking powder. Method.—Rub the lard into the flour. Add all the dry ingredients and mix to a stiff pasteCOOKERY RECIPES 46 with the egg and milk. Place on a greased tin in little heaps, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. London Buns | lb. flour, 2 oz. fat, 2 oz. sugar, lemon essence, | oz. chopped peel 1 egg, i teaspoonful baking powder, d^milk to mix. of Method.—Rub the butter into the dour. Mix all the dry ingredients. Add beaten egg and enough milk to make a stiff dough. Roll and cut into eight pieces. Form into balls. Bake about ten minutes in a quick oven. Oatmeal Biscuits 2-j oz. dour, \ teaspoonful of carbo- 3\ oz. oatmeal, nate of soda, \ oz. castor sugar, i egg. 2 oz. butter or lard, Method.—Melt the lard or butter. Mix to- gether dour, oatmeal, sugar, and soda. Then stir in melted butter, egg beaten slightly, with a little water. Turn paste on board and roll out very thinly. Cut into rounds. Bake on greased tin ten minutes. LESSON XXVI Milk Puddings Rice Pudding 2 oz. rice, lemon rind, i pt. milk, sugar. Method.—Put the milk, rice (washed), and lemon rind into a white-lined saucepan. SimmerFIRST COURSE 47 till the rice is tender. Remove the rind and add sugar to taste (about two tablespoonsful). Place in a greased pie-dish. Bake till firm and brown. Rice Pudding- (Another Method) 1 pt. milk, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. rice, • grated nutmeg. \ oz. chopped suet, Method.—Place the rice, sugar, chopped suet, and milk into a greased pie-dish. Grate nutmeg over and bake in a slow oven till firm and brown (about two hours). Semolina Pudding i oz. semolina, 2 eggs, i pt. milk, about 2 oz. sugar, lemon rind, flavouring. Method.—Put the milk and lemon rind on to boil. Sprinkle in the semolina and cook gently till it thickens and till the semolina is done. Add sugar. Remove lemon rind. (Any other flavour- ing liked may be added also.) When slightly cool, add the yolks and stiffly-whipped whites. Bake in a fairly hot oven till risen and browned. Cornflour Mould 2 oz. cornflour, about 2 tablespoonsful i pt. milk, of sugar, lemon rind, Method.—Blend the cornflour with a little of the milk. Plac^ the remainder on to boil with the lemon rind.1 Infuse till flavoured. Pour it48 COOKERY RECIPES slowly over the cornflour. Return to pan. Add sugar. Boil well. Pour into a wetted mould. When set, turn on to a crystal dish. Ground Rice Shape Make as above, using ounces of ground rice to i pint of milk. Rice Milk i oz. rice, i tablespoonful of i pt. skim milk, sugar. Method.—Wash rice. Place in a lined pan with milk. Simmer gently till rice is quite soft. Add sugar, and serve in a crystal dish. LESSON XXVII Steamed Puddings Scrap Bread Pudding | lb. scraps of bread, 3 oz. currants, 3 oz. suet, i teaspoonful of ground ginger, i teaspoonful of mixed spice, shake of pepper, 3 oz. sugar, i oz. peel, milk, if necessary, | teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda. Method.—Soak the bread in cold water, then squeeze as dry as possible. Beat with a fork till bread is light and crumbly. Chop suet finely. Mix all dry ingredients. Add milk if necessary. Turn into a greased basin. Cover with a greased paper. Steam for two hours. Serve with a sweet sauce.49 FIRST COURSE Treacle Pudding l lb. flour, | teaspoonful of carbo- l lb. breadcrumbs, nate of soda, i teaspoonful of ginger, \ lb. suet, l lb. treacle, milk to mix. pinch of salt, Method.—Chop suet. Mix the dry ingredients (except the soda). If treacle is stiff it should be warmed slightly. Add milk and use to mix. Beat well. Dissolve soda in a little milk and mix well in. Pour into a well-greased mould, and steam or boil from two to three hours. Serve with syrup sauce. N.B.—Two eggs may be added to above recipe. Mix with treacle to add. Marmalade Pudding 1 lb. flour, | lb. breadcrumbs, 2 eggs, salt, l lb. suet, l lb. marmalade, \ teacupful of baking powder or carbonate of soda. Method.—Chop suet finely. Mix dry ingre- dients. Mix marmalade with well-beaten eggs. Stir into mixture and beat well. Place in a greased basin. Steam for two and a half hours. N.B.—Pudding may be boiled. This takes rather less time to cook. Sauce 3 tablespoonsful of mar- i gill water, malade, lemon juice. Boil till reduced to a syrup. E5o COOKERY RECIPES LESSON XXVIII Bread-and-Butter Pudding 2 or 3 slices thinly cut bread-and-butter, i tablespoonful of sugar, i tablespoonful of sul- tanas, | pt. milk, 1 egg, vanilla, i tablespoonful of chopped peel. Method.—Cut bread into neat pieces; Place alternate layers of bread-and-butter and sultanas into a pie-dish. Make a custard with egg and milk. Add enough sugar to sweeten. Pour over bread. Allow it to soak for about half an hour. Grate nutmeg over top. Bake in a moderate oven till set and brown. Serve at once. Queen of Puddings 3 oz. short crust to line edges of pie-dish, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, | pt. milk, i oz. butter, 1 lemon (rind), 2 or 3 tablespoonsful of jam, 2 eggs, 11 oz. sugar. Method.—Line and decorate edges of pie-dish. Bring milk and butter to the boil. Pour over breadcrumbs. Add sugar and lemon rind. When slightly cool, add yolks. Soak for half an hour. Pour into pie-dish. Bake till set. Spread jam over. Pile stiffly-whipped whites (to which one tablespoonful of sugar has been added) on top. Place in a cool oven till brown and set.FIRST COURSE 5i Baked Bread Pudding | lb. scraps of bread (soaked), 3 oz. chopped suet, 2 oz. currants, a little milk, 2 tablespoonsful of sugar, pinch of salt, 1 to 2 eggs, nutmeg. Method.—Soak bread in cold water; squeeze dry. Flake it and add the dry ingredients. Beat up the eggs. Add them, also a little milk to moisten. Pour into a greased pie-dish. Bake till set and brown. LESSON XXIX Macaroni Cheese 2 oz. macaroni, | pint milk, 2 oz. grated cheese, 1 oz. butter, salt and pepper, 1 oz. flour, a few breadcrumbs, Method.—Place macaroni into a pan of boiling salted water. Boil, without a lid, for half an hour, till tender. Drain and cut into two-inch lengths. Make a white sauce with the butter, flour and milk. Cook well, season, add macaroni to sauce, mix, add grated cheese and seasonings. Pour into a greased pie-dish. Sprinkle one dessertspoonful of cheese and one dessertspoonful of breadcrumbs over top. Place over a few pieces of butter. Brown quickly in a hot oven.52 COOKERY RECIPES Cheese Pudding 2 oz. breadcrumbs, 2 oz. cheese, mustard, salt and pepper, £ pint milk, 1 egg, cayenne, J oz. butter. Method.—Mix breadcrumbs, cheese and season- ings in a basin. Bring milk and butter to the boil. Pour over crumbs, &c. Soak for about half an hour. Add beaten egg, and pour into prepared pie-dish. Bake till set, and brown in a quick oven. Rice and Cheese i oz. rice, i oz. grated cheese, i pint skim milk, salt and pepper. Method.—Wash rice. Place in a lined pan with the milk. Simmer gently till the rice is quite soft. Add grated cheese and seasoning. Place in a greased pie-dish. Sprinkle over a little of the cheese, and bake in a quick oven until brown. LESSON XXX Salads Summer Salad Lettuce, cucumber, endive, beetroot or tomato, cress, &c., French Dressing 3 tablespoonsful of oil, \ i tablespoonful of vinegar, [ mixed, salt and pepper, ) Method.—Wash, pick, and dry the salad. Break it into small pieces with the fingers, or shredFIRST COURSE 53 it quickly with a silver knife. Place the dressing in a bowl. Add salad and mix thoroughly, coat- ing each leaf. Arrange tastefully in a salad-bowl or crystal dish. Garnish with cucumber, fine cress, tomato or beetroot and hard-boiled egg. Winter Salad Vegetables such as : Brussels sprouts, cauli- flower, potatoes, beetroots, &c. Celery. These must be carefully boiled, except the celery, so that they are tender, but not masliy. Arrange nicely in a pyramid either coated with French dressing or served with the following :— Salad Dressing 2 hard-boiled yolks, salt, pepper, mustard i gill cream, (i eggspoonful made), pinch of sugar, vinegar to flavour. Method. — Mix yolks and seasonings tho- roughly. Add cream gradually, then vinegar. Serve in a sauceboat. Tomatoes and Bacon 3 rashers of bacon, chopped parsley, 3 tomatoes, salt and pepper. Method.—Cut bacon into neat pieces. Have frying-pan hot, and fry bacon. Arrange round an ashet. Cut tomatoes into quarters. Toss in bacon fat. Season well. Pile in centre of dish. Sprinkle with chopped parsley.54 COOKERY RECIPES Baked Tomatoes Choose tomatoes of an equal size. Wipe and place on a greased baking-tin. Cover with greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven till tender, but quite unbroken. (As a rule they only require to be thoroughly heated through.) Dish on croutons of fried bread. Garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley. LESSON XXXI Eggs Boiled Eggs Place in cold water. Bring to the boil, boil gently for three minutes. Hard-boiled Eggs Boil fifteen minutes. If wanted cold, place in cold water to prevent dark ring forming between white and yolk. Fried Eggs Have bacon-fat warm. Break egg into a saucer and slide it in. Season. Baste while cooking. When set, dish on rasher of fried bacon. Egg may be turned if liked. Baked Eggs Butter an au gratin dish. Slip eggs carefully m. Season well. Sprinkle with a little parsley, and a few breadcrumbs or breadcrumbs and cheese. Set in a baking-tin of boiling water. , Place in a moderate oven till set. Serve at once. 1 'foJt a JmxxXui&j if c 1 \ or. Av HfcJ (x, foFIRST COURSE 55 Scrambled Eggs 2 eggs, salt and pepper. | oz. butter, rounds of toasted i tablespoonful of milk, bread (buttered). Method.—Remove the specks from the eggs. Beat the eggs. Add the milk and seasonings. Melt the butter in a small enamelled pan. Stir the eggs over a moderate heat till set. Pile on buttered toast. Garnish with parsley. Scotch Eggs 2 hard-boiled eggs, hot fat, \ lb. sausage meat, parsley and garnish, egg and crumbs, Method.—Boil eggs for twenty minutes. Dust with flour when cold. Press sausage-meat carefully round each. Egg and crumb. Fry in deep fat. Drain. Cut in two, and serve on a round of fried bread or a slice of beetroot. SUNDRIES Mincemeat \ lb. raisins, \ lb. sultanas, \ lb. apples, \ lb. suet, 2 oz. peel, i lemon, i wineglassful of brandy, | teaspoonful of ginger, \ teaspoonful of cinnamon, 2 oz. brown sugar, l teaspoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, pinch of salt, % lb. currants. Method.—Stone and chop the raisins, rub and pick the sultanas, wash, pick and dry the currants.56 COOKERY RECIPES Chop the suet and peel finely. Peel and chop the apples. Grate the lemon-rind thinly. Strain the juice and mix everything thoroughly. Put into jars. Place over a cover dipped in brandy, and cover with parchment paper till required. Christmas Pudding 6 oz. breadcrumbs, f lb. minced raisins, £ lb. currants, i oz. each citron, lemon and orange peel, Make in usual way. 6 oz. suet, 4 eggs, •| glassful of brandy, | teaspoonful of salt. Boil eight hours. LESSON XXXII Yorkshire Pudding l lb. flour, i egg, \ pint milk, pinch of salt. Method.—Add the salt to flour. Place the egg in the centre, and beat to a smooth paste with half the milk. Beat for 20 minutes, and stand aside to cool. Add the rest of the milk gradually. Melt about 1 oz. of fat in a baking tin. Pour the batter on, and bake in a hot oven till done. Serve cut in neat squares, piled high on a dish. Pancakes Make a batter as above. After cooling and adding the rest of the milk, season a frying pan, pour in enough batter to cover the bottom, and fry a nice brown ; toss ; fry the other side. Turn57 FIRST COURSE on to a sugared paper. Sprinkle with lemon-juice and sugar, and serve, at once. Toad-in-the-Hole 2 sausages, | pint of batter (made as above). Method.—Parboil the sausages, cut in four, place in a greased pie-dish, and pour the batter over. Bake in a hot oven till done. N.B.—Fruit-in-Batter is made in exactly the same way, except the fruit is generally used fresh.THE SECOND COURSE OF COOKERY LESSON I Sauces Bechamel Sauce small onion, small piece carrot, small piece turnip, a little cream. Method.—Infuse the milk and vegetables over a gentle heat till milk is well flavoured. Strain. Make as for white sauce, using flavoured milk. Add cream and seasonings. i oz. butter, i oz. flour, \ pint milk, seasoning, Veloute Sauce i oz. flour, a few drops lemon juice, i oz. butter, seasonings. \ pint white stock, Method.—Make as for white sauce. Note.—Above sauces are made smoother by passing through a tammy cloth.SECOND COURSE 59 Lobster Sauce i lobster, i pint veloute sauce, i or 2 tablespoonsful of i oz. lobster spawn or cream, coral butter. Method.—Boil the spawn in the sauce, tammy, add the chopped lobster and cream. Hollandaise Sauce 3 tablespoonsful of vinegar, 2 oz. butter, 3 tablespoonsful of water, salt, 2 yolks of eggs, pepper. Method.—Boil the vinegar and water for five minutes. Add one ounce of butter and the yolks. Place in a double pan or jar set in boiling water. Stir till it thickens. Add the other ounce of butter in small pieces. Season and serve in a sauceboat. Note.—If allowed to get too hot it will curdle. Dutch Sauce i oz. flour, l pint milk, i oz. butter, i yolk of egg, lemon juice, seasoning. Method.—Make a white sauce. Allow it to cool a little. Add yolk. Cook but do not boil. Add seasonings and lemon juice. Serve. Brown Sauce 2 oz. flour, i tomato, salt and 2 oz. butter, pepper, i onion, a few vegetables. | pint brown stock, Method.—Brown the vegetables in the butter, add flour, brown it also. Add the tomato, cut up,COOKER Y RECIPES 6o to the stock. Stir till boiling. .Simmer gently for about one hour. Remove the scum as it rises. Strain and use. If a thin sauce is required add one gill brown stock to above. Espagnole Sauce | pint brown sauce, \ gill of sherry. 2 or 3 mushrooms, Method.—Simmer the mushrooms in the sauce for twenty minutes. Strain or tammy. Add sherry. Piquante Sauce \ pint brown sauce, bunch herbs, i shallot, i doz. peppercorns. Simmer together till well flavoured. Strain. Add one chopped gherkin, a few chopped capers, half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one dessert- spoonful of vinegar. Tomato Sauce | lb. tomatoes, \ pint light stock, \ oz. butter, pinch sugar, i onion, small teaspoonful of cornflour, small piece carrot, small piece turnip, seasonings. Method.—Slice the tomatoes and onion. Place in a pan with stock, butter, vegetables, and seasonings. Simmer for half an hour. Pass through a hair sieve or strainer. Mix cornflour smoothly with a little cold stock. Add the sauce. Stir till it boils. Season. Add a drop of carmine if necessary.SECOND COURSE 61 Mayonnaise Sauce i yolk of egg, 1 gill salad oil, teaspoonful of dry mustard 2 tablespoonsful of cream, i tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, i tablespoonful of vinegar. Mix mustard with yolk. Add oil drop by drop, stirring constantly. Add vinegar in same way. Season, and add the cream. Tartare Sauce Mayonnaise sauce. Add chopped parsley, chopped gherkins and chopped capers. German Egg Sauce 2 yolks of eggs, i gill sherry, or sherry i dessertspoonful of and water, sugar (large), Method.—Heat the wine. Beat the yolks and sugar together. Whisk the wine over. Return to pan and whisk over a gentle heat till set, and frothy. Use at once. Custard Sauce i egg, sugar and vanilla, i gill milk, Heat milk. Beat egg, sugar and vanilla together. Pour milk over. Return to pan, and stir till it thickens and coats the spoon. The custard may be made with the yolk and the white whipped stiffly added after it thickens.62 COOKERY RECIPES LESSON II Soups White Stock 2 lbs. knuckle of veal, | lb. lean ham, 5 pints cold water, 2 onions, 4 inches lemon-rind, 2 pieces celery, 20 peppercorns, | blade mace, i teaspoonful of salt, | turnip, bunch of herbs. Method.—Cut veal and ham into small pieces. Add salt and cold water. Bring slowly to the boil. Skim carefully. Simmer for three hours. Add vegetables, &c. Simmer for two hours longer. Strain through a wire sieve. When cold, use, after removing the fat. Note.—Use the meat and bones for second stock. Brown Stock 2 lbs. shin of beef, | lb. knuckle of veal or chicken bones, 1 lb, raw ham, 2 quarts cold water, i teaspoonful of salt, i carrot, \ turnip, bunch of herbs, Dlade of mace, 2 onions, 1 oz. butter, 2 sticks celery. Method.—Cut the meat and ham finely and remove marrow from bone. Add cold water and salt. Simmer gently for three hours, skimming as it comes to the boil. Cut onions into fine rings. Fry a very dark brown in the butter (do not burn them). Drain and add with vege- tables and seasonings. Simmer for two hoursSECOND COURSE 63 longer. Strain through a hair sieve. When cold, remove the fat and use. Note.—A good household stock can be made as above by using half meat and half bones, the veal and ham being omitted. 0 Fish Stock 1 cod’s head, or a few cold water to cover, fish trimmings, slice crumb of bread, bunch herbs, salt. a few vegetables, Method.—Wash the fish well. Simmer all together from half to three-quarters of an hour. Strain and use. Good Gravy Soup 1 quart good brown seasoning, stock, l lb. shredded beef. I oz. macaroni. Method.—Free the stock from fat, season. Boil the macaroni in boiling salted water till tender—about twenty minutes. Cut it into short lengths. When soup is boiling add the macaroni. Bisque 3 pints fish stock, 1 oz. butter, II doz. fresh oysters, 1 or 2 yolks, \ lb. Carolina rice, pint cream or milk. seasonings, Stew the rice in two pints of fish stock. When cooked, pass through a hair sieve. Beard oysters and cut them in four or five pieces. Stew beards in oyster liquor and butter for ten minutes. Strain64 COOKERY RECIPES liquor. Add it with rest of stock to soup. Place yolks in a basin with cream or milk. Pour a little of the soup over. Return to soup and heat through to thicken eggs. Add the oysters and seasoning. m. LESSON III Mulligatawny Soup \ small rabbit or chicken, 1 quart stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, i onion, lemon juice, 2 dessertspoonsful of curry powder, i apple, i gill cream, | teaspoonful of curry paste, salt Method.—Prepare and cut up the rabbit into joints. Brown in the butter. Chop the apple and onion ; fry also in butter. When golden brown, stir in flour and curry powder and paste. Cook well. Add the stock. Boil up. Return the joints and simmer till tender. Pass through a sieve. Return to the pan. Remove bones from the meat, cut into neat pieces, add to soup. Add also the cream, seasonings and lemon juice. Serve with boiled rice—£ lb. Ox-tail Soup (Thick) i ox-tail, i turnip, i onion, bouquet garni, celery, 2 oz. flour, 3 oz. fat, 2 quarts stock, i carrot, seasoning. Method.—Cut the ox-tail into pieces. Dip in seasoned flour. Fry the onion, which is cut upSECOND COURSE 65 roughly, and then the meat. Add the water and boil. Simmer from three to four hours. Strain. Make a brown roux and add the soup to it. Cut off some of the meat and add also a few pieces of the tail, the jelly and port wine. Imitation Hare Soup l lb. gravy beef, small piece of turnip, 1 teaspoonful of red currant jelly. 1 tablespoonful of claret or port wine. 1 quart water or stock, seasoning, 2 oz. flour, Method.—Cut up the meat, dip in seasoned flour, and brown in the butter. Brown the onion, which is stuck with cloves. Remove meat and onion and brown flour. Add the water and boil, then put back the meat and vegetables. Simmer gently from one and a half to two hours. Strain. Return to the saucepan and add flavouring, also forcemeat balls made as follows : 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful of ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of Wor- cester sauce, mixed herbs, 1 onion, 1 small carrot. 2 tablespoonsful of breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, l teaspoonful of herbs. 1 teaspoonful of chopped suet, seasoning, little grated lemon rind, 1 egg- Mix together and make into small balls. Fry and add to the soup. F66 COOKERY RECIPES LESSON IV Tomato Puree | tin tomatoes or 6 to 8 fresh ones, oz. butter, 11 oz. flour, i teaspoonful of sugar, salt, pepper, i pint white stock, i gill cream, i small onion. Method.—Put the stock, tomatoes and flavour- ing into a lined pan, simmer till tender (about three-quarters of an hour). Pass through a hair sieve. Make a panada. Add the puree. Boil up. Put the cream in a tureen and pour the soup on. Serve with croutons. Green Pea Puree 1 pint peas, bunch of parsley, | lb. pods, sPrig of mint, 2 tablespoonsful of cream, i pint white stock, seasoning, little sugar. i dessertspoonful of corn- flour Method.—Put the stock on to boil. Add a little salt. Put in the peas, pods, parsley and mint. Allow to boil gently with the lid half on till the peas are tender. Pass through a sieve. Reheat. Add seasoning. Put the cream in the tureen, pour on the soup, and stir well. Serve with croutons. N.B.—If the puree is not a good consistency a little thickening of cornflour may be added.6 7 SECOND COURSE Celery Soup i head of celery, | pint white stock, from | to i pint milk, seasoning, i oz. butter, i oz. hour, i tablespoonful of cream, bouquet garni. Method.—Cook the celery till tender in the stock. Sieve. Cook the butter and hour. Add the puree and milk. Cook gently. Put the cream in a tureen, pour on the puree. Stir well. Serve with croutons. Brussels Sprouts Purde \ lb. Brussels sprouts, 2 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful of hour, 1 onion, 2 oz. lean ham, £ teaspoonful of sugar, 1 gill boiled milk, salt and pepper. 1 quart white stock, Method.—Boil the sprouts, drain and mince them. Cook the ham (minced), onion and butter together, over a slow hre for ten minutes. Add the hour, sprouts, milk and stock. Let it simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring frequently. Rub through a hair sieve. Add sugar and season well. Re-heat and pour into a hot tureen. Serve with fried croutons. LESSON V Whitebait Pick over. Keep on ice or in salt and water till wanted. Spread out separately between the folds of a soft cloth for a short time. Shake in a68 COOKERY RECIPES dry cloth, dust with fine flour. Arrange in a frying basket (separate). Plunge into fat, which is just smoking, one or two minutes till cooked, but still soft. When all are done have the fat very hot (400° F.) and plunge in for about a minute. Sprinkle with cayenne and salt. Drain. Serve with cut lemon and fried parsley. Rolls of brown bread-and-butter should be served separately. Stuffed Fillets of Fish 1 plaice or sole, seasoned flour, veal stuffing, egg and crumbs. Method.—Wash, fillet and skin the plaice. If very large divide the fillets. Put a small piece of stuffing on each, roll up, dip in seasoned flour, egg and crumb. Fry in deep fat. Serve on a* paper with fried parsley. Sole a la Colbert 1 Dover sole (about i| 0z. maitre d’hotel 1 lb.) butter. Method.—Trim sole. Remove both skins. Make an incision down backbone. Break bone about one inch from tail. Season. Egg and crumb. Fry in deep fat, drain on a cloth. Care- fully remove bone without breaking fish in any way. Fill incision with well-seasoned maitre d’hotel butter. Garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. LESSON VI Boiled Salmon Wash the fish carefully. Do not remove the scales. Place in boiling salted water. Boil forSECOND COURSE 69 one minute to set the curd. Simmer till done, allowing ten minutes to each pound, and ten minutes over. Do not add vinegar to water, as this spoils the colour. Dish on folded serviette. Garnish with lemon, parsley, and cucumber. Fillets a la Maitre d’Hotel Fillets of plaice or whit- ing. Maitre d’ | oz. flour, § oz. butter, chopped parsley, seasoning, Lemon juice. otel Sauce | pint (milk or) fish stock, 2 tablespoonsful of cream or milk. Method.—Wash flllet and skin the plaice. Roll up the fillets. Put on a greased tin. Squeeze over a little lemon juice, cover with greased paper and bake carefully. Make a white sauce. Add blanched and chopped parsley and lemon juice sufficient to give a marked flavour. Arrange the fillets neatly on a dish. Pour over the sauce. Garnish with lemon and parsley. Fish au Gratin (Sole) 1 sole, browned crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped 1 gill Italian sauce, parsley, 4 small mushrooms, \ a shallot, | oz. butter, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Method.—Skin the sole. Cut off the fins, and nick it with a knife on both sides. Dry it well. Chop the parsley, shallot and mushrooms and mix together. Butter a dish. Sprinkle half the chopped mixture on the dish. Lay the sole on70 COOKERY RECIPES this seasoning and sprinkle the rest of the parsley, &c., over the fish. Squeeze over a little lemon juice, season with salt and pepper. Shake over some browned breadcrumbs. Lay the butter in little bits here and there on the fish. Cover with a greased paper. Put into a moderate oven and bake about ten minutes. Pour the heated sauce round the fish. LESSON VII Fish Fried in Batter Filleted whiting or salt, plaice. i gill tepid water, | lb. flour, white of i egg. i tablespoonful of salad oil, Method.—Wash and dry the fillets. Make the batter, allowing it to stand before adding the white of egg if possible. Dip in the fillets. Fry in hot fat a golden brown. Garnish with fried parsley. Fish Pastry 6 oz. good flaky or rough puff pastry, 6 oz. cooked fish, sauce flavoured with anchovy (f gill), i chopped gherkin, seasoning, i teaspoonful chopped capers, i chopped hard-boiled egg- Method.—Roll the pastry to an oblong length. Mix the fish with the sauce and flavouring, and place on the pastry. Brush the edges with egg. Fold over. Brush with egg and decorate with leaves. Bake in a hot oven. Serve on a fancy paper. A few oysters or shrimps would improve the mixture.71 SECOND COURSE Scalloped Fish Some cooked fish, i oz. flour, i oz. butter, | pint milk, breadcrumbs, grated cheese, seasoning, butter. Method.—Flake the fish, being careful to remove all bones. Make a sauce and mix with the fish. Put alternate layers of this mixture with cheese in a greased pie-dish. Fry some crumbs in a little butter and lay on the top. Warm through in the oven. LESSON VIII Eggs in Aspic (Egg Salad) Aspic jelly, chopped parsley, 3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs, mayonnaise sauce, coralline pepper, salad. Method.—Cut the hard-boiled eggs into slices. Pour some aspic jelly into a border mould. Decorate with chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Then place in slices of egg setting with aspic and so on until the mould is full. Set on ice. Turn out on a dish. Place round a border of lettuce. Decorate with quarters of egg on tomatoes. Mix some egg with mayonnaise sauce and lettuce, and fill in the centre of the border. Tomato Salad Tomatoes, i tablespoonful of 3 tablespoonsful of oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, seasoning. Method.—Skin and slice the tomatoes. Sprinkle on a little chopped parsley. Mix the oil andCOOKERY RECIPES 72 vinegar with pepper and salt, and pour over. A little chopped shalot is liked by some. White Fish Salad Cold fish, such as turbot some pickled shrimps, or halibut, some watercress, beetroot or tomatoes, some lettuce, chopped gherkins, some cucumber, chopped capers, mayonnaise dressing, little chopped shalot, hard-boiled egg. Method.—Flake the fish. Add shrimps, gherkins, capers and hard-boiled egg chopped. Put a border of lettuce and cucumber round the dish. Put the fish, &c., mixed with mayonnaise in the centre. Garnish with cress, &c. Lobster Aspic Line Breton border mould with aspic jelly. Decorate with sieved yolk, hard-boiled white, pistachios and truffles. Set in aspic. Place in a layer of lobster, choosing first the claws and pretty red parts. Set in aspic. Repeat till mould is full. When quite set, turn out and fill centre with salad and mayonnaise dressing. Mayonnaise i raw yolk, salt, pepper, cayenne, i saltspoonful of French i teaspoonful of vinegar, mustard, i teaspoonful of Tarra- i saltspoonful of made gon vinegar, mustard, about i gill salad oil. Method.—Put the yolk into a basin. Add mustards, salt, pepper and cayenne. Add the salad oil, drop by drop, stirring with a wooden spoon till the consistency of stiffly-whipped cream. Add the vinegar gradually, just before using.SECOND COURSE 73 Note.—One or two tablespoonsful of thick cream may be added at the end, and is a great improvement. LESSON IX Stewed Steak l lb. steak, i dessertspoonful of i onion, flour. \ oz. white fat, carrot and turnip, | pint brown stock or salt and pepper, water, Method.—Make fat hot in the pan. Brown steak quickly on both sides. Remove it and brown the onion (cut in rings). Brown the flour. Add the stock and stir till it boils. Return the steak and onions, also the rough pieces of carrot and turnip. Simmer till tender—about two hours. Season well. Dish steak on a hot dish ; strain gravy over. Garnish with strips of carrot and turnip and a little fresh parsley. Garnish.—Cut red part of carrot and part of turnip into thin slices, then into long strips like matches. Boil separately for about twenty minutes in boiling salted water. Drain well and use. Haricot Mutton i turnip, i carrot, i onion, bouquet garni. Best end of neck, i oz. flour, i oz. fat, | pint of stock, seasoning, Method.—Chine the meat. Cut off the ends of the bone. Cut into chops and remove super- fluous fat. Fry the chops in the fat until brown.74 COOKERY RECIPES Remove. Fry the onion. Brown the flour. Add stock and boil up. Put back the meat and vegetables and cook until tender. Cut the carrot and turnip into fancy shapes and cook separately. Serve on a very hot dish with the meat in the centre. Season the gravy and strain over. Gar- nish with vegetables. LESSON X Stewed Ox Kidney and Rice \ lb. ox kidney, i oz. flour, \ pint stock or water, small onion, i teaspoonful of ketchup, i teaspoonful Worcester sauce, seasoning, border of rice, maca- roni, or potatoes. Method.—Wash the kidney and cut in slices. Put into a stewpan with chopped onion and stock. Stew for about two hours. Remove the meat and thicken the gravy with the flour mixed smoothly with stock. Season and add ketchup and Worcester sauce. Serve very hot in the centre of the dish with a border of rice round. Stewed knuckle of veal, 1 turnip, 2 oz. flour, \ pint of milk, | lb. rice, Method.—Wipe the of the knuckle bone. al and Rice 1 onion stuck with cloves, 2 oz. butter, chopped parsley, seasoning. meat. Chop off the end Put into a white-lined75 SECOND COURSE saucepan with the onion and water to barely cover. Bring to the boil. Then add turnip cut up into dice. The washed rice should be added half an hour before serving. Simmer till cooked. Serve the veal in the centre of a hot dish, with the rice as a border. Coat with parsley sauce made with half milk and half liquor in which the veal cooked. Garnish with cut lemon and rolls of bacon (grilled). Calf's Head few rashers of bacon, i small carrot, i small turnip, i onion, bay leaf. Method.—Wash the head and remove the brain and tongue. Blanch the head. Put into pan and cover with cold water. Add carrot, turnip, onion, bay leaf, and the tongue. Boil gently until tender, removing scum as it rises. Boil the brain in muslin. Cut the bacon into dice and fry. Remove the meat from the bones without breaking the skin. Serve coated with parsley sauce. Garnish with chopped brain, bacon, quarters of lemon, and sliced tongue. | calf’s head, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, \ pint of liquor, pint of milk, LESSON XI Roast Saddle of Mutton Wipe meat carefully, and roast, basting fre- quently. Serve on a hot dish with some gravy round, and hand red currant jelly.COOKERY RECIPES 7 6 Sirloin of Beef Roast, basting frequently. Serve with grated horseradish, and horseradish sauce. Forequarter of Lamb Roast, basting carefully, first being sure that it is properly jointed. When cooked, loosen the shoulder from the rest of the joint, put under it a lump of butter (about i oz.), squeeze in some lemon juice and sprinkle on a little cayenne pepper. Serve with gravy and mint sauce, and have a second hot dish ready on which to put the shoulder. Stuffed and Rolled Mutton Half shoulder of mutton (blade end) or breast. Remove bone and brush where bone was re- moved with egg. Fill up space with force- meat and fasten securely into a neat roll with string. Roast, allowing twenty minutes per lb., and twenty minutes over. Pour thickened gravy round and garnish with baked tomatoes or green vegetables. Forcemeat 2 oz. breadcrumbs, i teaspoonful of chopped i oz. suet (chopped), parsley, salt and pepper, egg to bind. I teaspoonful of thyme, Mix all together and bind with egg. Note.—All fat must be removed from gravy, and a drop of browning added if required.77 SECOND COURSE LESSON XII Mutton Cutlets i best end of neck, vegetables for centre, egg and breadcrumbs, good brown or tomato seasoning, sauce, potato border, Method.—Wipe the meat and chine carefully, chop the ends, cut into cutlets, and trim off the outside fat. Clear the bone an inch below the eye. Bat with a cutlet bat, or the end of a palette-knife. Trim. Scrape the bone. Dip in seasoned flour. Coat with egg and crumbs. Fry in a Saute pan. Dish on a border of mashed potatoes. Put peas or any suitable vegetable in the centre and pour sauce round. A small frill should be put on each cutlet bone. Veal Cutlets | lb. veal cutlet, i oz. butter, i dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, egg and breadcrumbs, vegetables for garnish, little grated lemon rind, i yolk egg, seasoning, rashers of bacon, brown or tomato sauce. Method.—Wipe the meat and cut into rounds about half an inch thick. Dip in a mixture of yolk of egg, dissolved butter, parsley, seasoning and lemon rind. Dip in crumbs, then coat with egg and crumb. Fry in a Saute pan. Roll up the rashers, cook. Serve the cutlets on a ring of mashed potato, put a roll of bacon on each cutlet. Put peas or some suitable vegetable in the centre, and pour the sauce round. Garnish with bacon.COOKERY RECIPES 78 N.B.—Instead of above coating, egg and crumbs, to which seasoning (chopped parsley and grated lemon rind) have been added, maybe used. Fried Sweetbread Sweetbread, onion stuck with clove, seasoned flour, egg and breadcrumb. Method.—Blanch the sweetbread, then stew in stock until tender with the onion. Press it. Dip in seasoned flour, coat with egg and crumb. Fry, in deep fat, a golden brown. Serve on a fancy paper garnished with fried parsley. LESSON XIII Fricassee of Chicken »• Cooked chicken, pint of water, i onion, | pint of milk, small piece of carrot, 6 peppercorns, bunch of herbs, 2 strips lemon rind. 1 tablespoonful of cream, Method.—Cut the chicken into joints. Re- move skin. Put the bones and skin into a pan with the water, milk, vegetables and seasoning. Make a sauce with the following ingredients :— 11 oz. butter, f- pint of stock in which i| oz. flour, the chicken has been cooked, seasoning. Cook well. Add joints of chicken and heat through. Dish chicken in a pile. Add the cream and lemon-juice to the sauce. Strain over. Gar- nish with croutons of fried bread, parsley, and red pepper.79 SECOND COURSE Durham Cutlets i oz. butter, i oz. Hour, i gill stock or milk, salt and pepper, egg and crumbs, l lb. cooked meat, i tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, i teaspoonful of ketchup, macaroni. Method.—Make panada with butter, flour and stock, add chopped meat (freed from fat and gristle), crumbs and seasoning. Spread on a plate to become firm. Divide into seven or eight. Roll into balls, then form into cutlets, egg and crumb. Fry in hot fat. Fry a small piece of macaroni (one and a half inch long) for each cutlet. Make a hole with a skewer and insert it into end of each cutlet. Dish in a circle and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with brown or tomato sauce. Croquettes. | lb. cold meat, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i gill stock, \ teaspoonful of ketchup, 2 tablespoonsful of breadcrumbs, ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Method.—Make as for Durham Cutlets, but shape into cork shapes. Egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat. Drain and garnish with fried parsley. Rissoles 3 oz. short pastry, 2 oz. cold meat, \ oz. butter, seasoning, l oz. flour, egg and crumbs. \ gill of stock, Method.—Make sauce, add chopped meat and seasonings. Spread on a plate till cold8o COOKERY RECIPES pastry out very thinly. Cut in rounds. Place a teaspoonful of mixture on each. Wet edges and fold over. Press together egg crumb and fry. Garnish with fried parsley. LESSON XIV Veal and Ham Pie 1 lb. fillet of veal, salt and pepper, 2 oz. ham or bacon, grated lemon rind, i hard-boiled egg, white stock. a little ground mace, Method.—Cut the veal into neat pieces. Place alternate layers of veal and ham in pie-dish, seasoning each. Cut egg into slices and arrange it on top. Add one tablespoonful of stock. Cut a rim of pastry and place it round the wetted edge of the pie-dish (No. 6). Wet edge and cover pie with flaky pastry. Flake up edges. Decorate with leaves and brush with egg and bake in a quick oven for an hour and a half, reducing the heat and covering the pie with paper after the first half-hour, when the pastry should be risen and a golden colour. Add more stock. Flaky Pastry \ lb. flour, squeeze of lemon-juice, 6 oz. lard and butter pinch of salt, or margarine, cold water. Method.—Add salt to Hour. Rub in one ounce of the shortening. Add lemon juice to the water and mix to an elastic paste. Roll out into a long strip. Divide shortening into three.81 SECOND COURSE Place one portion on in pats, covering two-thirds of the strip. Fold in three. Turn open ends to and from you. Roll out. Repeat till all the shortening is used up. Set in a cold place for half an hour. Roll and fold twice more and use. Sausage Rolls Half a pound of sausages. Six ounces flaky pastry. Boil sausages two minutes. Cool and remove skins. Roll pastry into a square. Cut into oblong pieces. Place sausage on one side, fold over, flake edges, mark top, brush with egg, bake half an hour in hot oven. Cold Meat Patties £ lb. cold meat, i oz. breadcrumbs, about 4 tablespoonsful of stock, salt and pepper, \ a small onion (par- boiled). \ lb. flaky pastry, Method.—Chop the meat and onion finely. Soak the crumbs in the stock. Mix the meat, onion and crumbs together. Season. Line small patty tins with flaky pastry. Place a spoonful of mixture into each. Wet the edges. Cover with pastry. Flake up edges. Bake in a quick oven twenty to thirty minutes. G82 COOKERY RECIPES LESSON XV Raised Pies * Pastry f lb. flour, about \ pint of milk £ lb. lard, and water, salt, Method.—Add salt to flour. Place lard, milk and water in a pan, bring to boil. Stir into flour and knead till quite smooth. Set aside until cool enough to work (about ten minutes). Grease a raised pie mould, roll pastry out. Cut an oval piece for top and bottom, also strip to line sides. Fit in strip, pressing pastry well against sides of tin and join with a little water. Wet edges and fit a piece in the bottom. Fill pie with pork. Cover and decorate with leaves. Bake about two hours or till pork is tender in a very hot oven, lowering the heat when the pastry is golden brown. Pour in jellied stock when cooked. Meat i lb. pork, l teaspoonful of sage, i teaspoonful of salt, if liked. pepper, Method.—Cut the meat into small pieces or mince, season, simmer, skin and bone in water or stock and use to pour into pies when cooked. Small Pork Pies The above quantity will make three or four. The pastry should be divided into four, a small83 SECOND COURSE piece of each reserved for the tops. Shape the remaining paste with the hand into a hollow pie. Fill with meat prepared as above, wet edges, place on cover, roll out any trimmings, cut into stars, make a hole in centre of each, and decorate. Place on a greased tin and bake in a quick oven for about an hour or an hour and a half till pork is tender. Fill up with stock. Note.—If the pastiy cracks in working, it is too cold. If very soft it is too warm. LESSON XVI Short Pastry 8 oz. flour, \ teaspoonful of 4 oz. shortening, baking powder, cold water. Method.—Rub shortening into flour, add baking powder and mix to a stiff paste with cold water. Roll out and use. One teaspoonful of sugar may be added if for a sweet dish. Biscuit Crust 5 oz. flour, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 3 oz. shortening, squeeze of lemon, 1 yolk, cold water. Make as for short crust. Cover tart in usual way. When tart is baked, glaze with white of egg, dredge quickly with sugar, place in hot oven for a few minutes. o 284 COOKERY RECIPES Petits Choux 2\ oz. flour, pinch of salt, 1 oz. butter, i gill of water, 2 eggs, vanilla, if for a sweet. Method.—Bring water and butter to the boil, add sifted flour, stirring vigorously. Boil till it forms into a ball, beating all the time. Cool slightly, add vanilla and eggs (one at a time). Beat till quite smooth. Place on a greased oven shelf in balls, using two teaspoons. It should make ten or twelve. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. When cold fill with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured. Dust with icing sugar. Spanish Puffs Make pastry as for petits choux. Place in bag with a plain pipe. Force it into a pan of hot fat in pieces about one inch long. Fry thoroughly. Drain. Serve on fancy paper with sifted sugar sprinkled over. Lemon Pie 4 oz. flour, pinch of salt, 2 oz. butter and lard, cold water to mix. Make into short pastry. 3 eggs, i breakfastcupful of 2 lemons, castor sugar, i gill of cream or milk, £ teaspoonful of i tablespoonful of cinnamon, cornflour, Method.—Roll out pastry and line a dish with it. Decorate edges with leaves of pastry. Beat three yolks together. Mix with the corn- flour, sugar, cinnamon, grated lemon-rinds,85 SECOND COURSE juice and cream. Pour mixture into a lined dish. Bake in a slow oven until cooked. Whisk the whites stiffly. Fold in one tablespoonful of castor sugar. Pile on top of pie. It is ready when set and tinged a golden brown. LESSON XVII Vanilla Soufflee 11 oz. Hour, 1 oz. sugar, ii oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful of i| gills of milk (short vanilla, measure), 4 whites. 3 yolks, Method.—Make a panada with the butter, hour and milk. Add the sugar and vanilla when the panada is well cooked. (It should form a ball in the pan.) Beat in the yolks and fold in the stiffly-beaten whites. Pour into a prepared soufflee mould. Steam gently for forty minutes. Turn out and serve with jam sauce. Viennoise 4 oz. bread (cut in dice), 2 oz. peel, 3 oz. sultanas, 3 eggs, Pudding 3 oz. sifted sugar, 2 pint of milk, 1 gill of cream, rind of 1 lemon, 10 lumps of loaf sugar. 1 gill of sherry, Method.—Put the loaf sugar into a pan with a little water. Boil till a dark brown colour. Add the milk and allow the caramel to dissolve in it. Add the cream and pour over the beaten eggs. Add the sherry. Have the bread, sifted sugar, shredded peel, and lemon-rind in a basin.COOKERY RECIPES 86 Pour the custard over. Allow it to soak for half an hour. Pour into a greased mould. Cover with a greased paper. Steam one hour and a half. Serve with wine sauce (German egg sauce). Beresford Pudding 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonsful of their weight in butter, breadcrumbs, sugar and flour, \ teaspoonful of baking grated rind of 2 oranges, powder. Method.—Cream, butter and sugar together. Add eggs and hour alternately. Add bread- crumbs and orange rind. Beat thoroughly. Place mixture in a greased tin. Steam for one hour and a half. Serve with orange sauce. To prepare the tin.—Grease with clarified butter, place a round of paper in bottom, and decorate with cherries and angelica. Orange Sauce i gill of water, juice of i orange, i teaspoonful of corn- juice of | lemon, flour, shreds of orange rind, i tablespoonful of sugar. Method.—Boil water, juice, and shreds of peel together. Make cornflour into a paste with a little cold water. Pour on boiling liquid. Boil up, sweeten, and pour round pudding. Caramel Custards io lumps of sugar, boil together till dark a little water (i table- • golden-brown, spoonful), Grease hve or six dariol moulds and pour a little caramel into each.SECOND COURSE Custard \ pint milk, 3 eggs (beaten), vanilla, 1 to 2 oz. sifted sugar. Mix all together. Pour into moulds. Set in a pan with boiling water to come half-way up. Cover with greased paper. Steam very gently till set (about one hour). The water must not boil. Turn out. Serve hot or cold. The above can be made in one mould. Set in a pan of water, covered with a greased paper, and baked in a slowr oven. LESSON XVIII Apple Amber Pastry. 4 oz. flour, lemon juice, 2 oz. butter and lard, salt, cold water, Ingredients for Apple Amber. Short pastry or rough a little water, puff pastry, 2 oz. butter, 11 lb. apples, 2 eggs. | lb. raw sugar, Use No. 6 pie-dish. Rough Puff Pastry. Method.—Put flour in basin, add salt. Cut butter and lard into flour (pieces about the size of a walnut). Add water and lemon juice to make paste to an elastic consistency. Roll out on a floured board into a strip. Fold in three. Turn open edges to and from you. Roll out. Repeat three or four times until the butter and flour are well mixed. Line edge of a pie-dish with pastry.COOKERY RECIPES 88 Flake edges, and decorate with leaves or fancy shapes. Method.—Have i£ lb. apples stewed with 2 oz. butter, lb. raw sugar, and a little water. Rub through a sieve. Add two yolks. Pour into pie-dish, and bake till firm in a hot oven. Whip two whites to a stiff froth. Fold in one table- spoonful castor sugar. Pile on top and brown in a moderate oven. Coburg Pudding 4 oz. short crust, f lb. apples, 1 | oz. sugar, a little water, 2 eggs, marmalade, \ pint of milk, i oz. cornflour, sugar to taste. Method.—Peel, core, and stew the apples with sugar and water. Line edges of pie-dish with pastry, and decorate. Rub apples through a sieve and put in the pie-dish, then a layer of mar- malade on top. Make a custard with the milk, cornflour, yolks, and sugar. Bake. When cooked, pile meringue on top and brown in the oven. To make the custard : dissolve corn- flour in a little cold milk. Boil the remainder, and pour it over. Add sugar, and boil well. Cool a little, and add the yolks. Pour over apples, &c. Use No. 7 pie-dish. Lemon Rice 3 oz. rice, sugar to taste, 1 pint of milk, juice and rind of i 2 eggs, lemon, a little jam, Method.—Boil the rice in the milk with a strip of lemon rind until it is cooked and thick. AllowSECOND COURSE 89 it to cool, then add sugar, yolks, and lemon juice. Pour into a pie-dish. Set in the oven. Spread a layer of jam on top. Pile meringue over, and brown in a moderate oven. LESSON XIX Sweet Omelet 2 large eggs, 1 dessertspoonful of milk, \ teaspoonful of vanilla, 1 dessertspoonful of sugar, \ oz. of fresh butter, warm jam. Method.—Cream the yolks and sugar in a fairly large basin, add vanilla and milk. Whisk whites till solid. Fold quickly into yolks. Have butter hot in omelet pan. Pour mixture in. Cook over hot fire. When golden-brown, cook top under grill or in hot oven till set. Turn on to hot dish. Place jam between. Dust omelet with icing sugar and serve at once. Fruit Fritters Apples, peeled, cored and cut in rings, Bananas, peeled and quartered, Tinned apricots, pineapple or pieces of orange. Batter. 2|- oz. flour, 1 tablespoonful of salad 1 gill tepid water, oil, pinch of salt, 1 white of egg. Method.—Place flour in a basin. Make well in centre. Pour in salad oil, and add tepid water. Beat batter well, and allow it to stand for about one hour. Add stiffly-beaten white. Dip theCOOKERY RECIPES 90 fruit in, one piece at a time. Place with a skewer into a bath of very hot fat till a golden-brown. Drain. Sprinkle with castor sugar, and serve on a fancy paper. Rice Croquettes 3 oz. rice, i oz. sugar, i pint of milk, strip of lemon rind, egg and crumbs, Method— Boil milk, rice, and lemon rind until cooked and quite thick. Remove rind, and add sugar. Spread on a wet plate. Divide into portions. When cold, form into balls. Coat with egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. LESSON XX Sponge Pudding | lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs, i teaspoonful of baking 2 tablespoonsful of powder, water. Method.—Whisk the sugar, eggs and water over a pan of hot water for fifteen minutes. Fold in the butter (melted, but not hot) and the flour (sifted), and baking powder. Pour into a buttered pie-dish (No. 6), and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn out and spread with jam. Cup Puddings 2 eggs, their weight in vanilla, butter, sugar and pinch of baking flour, powder. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar. Add eggs and flour alternately, also flavouring, and aSECOND COURSE 9i pinch of baking powder. Bake in greased dariol moulds. When cooked, turn out ; if uneven, trim them. Dish, and pour jam sauce round. Swiss Roll 3 eggs, | teaspoonful of baking 3 oz. sugar, powder, 3 oz. flour, 1 tablespoonful of milk, jam. Method.—Whisk eggs and sugar together for fifteen or twenty minutes. Fold in the sifted flour and baking powder. Add milk, and pour into a lined tin. Bake six to seven minutes in a quick oven. Turn out, when firm, on a sugared paper. Spread with warm jam. Trim edges quickly, and roll. Dust with icing sugar. LESSON XXI Spinach Method.—Remove the stalks from the spinach and wash thoroughly. Place in a saucepan with a little salt, and only the water which clings to the leaves. Cook till tender. Press all the water off, and rub through a sieve. Season and return to a saucepan with a pat of butter. Make very hot. Pile in the centre of a hot vegetable dish. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs or fried croutons. The spinach may be piled on toast or fried bread. Celeriac Celeriac, rather more than | pint 1 oz. butter, of milk and water, seasonings, 1 oz. flour. Method.—Peel celeriac, and cut it in pieces. Stew in milk and water in lined pan till tender.92 COOKERY RECIPES Place in a hot vegetable dish on toast, and coat with white sauce made with half a pint of liquid in which it was cooked. Cauliflower au Gratin i cauliflower, \ pint of milk, i oz. flour, 2 oz. grated cheese, i oz. butter, i teaspoonful of bread- a little clarified butter, crumbs. Method.—Trim, wash and boil the cauliflower in the usual way. Drain, and dish in a vegetable dish or an au gratin dish. Make a white sauce, and add the cheese to it (reserving a little for the top). Season and pour over the cauliflower. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and cheese (mixed). Put butter on top, and brown quickly in oven. Potato Croquettes i lb. potatoes, seasoning, i oz. butter, a little milk or yolk of % teaspoonful of egg to bind, chopped parsley, Method.—Steam the potatoes. Mash them and add seasoning, butter (melted) and a little milk or yolk of egg. Form into shapes—pears or balls. Egg and crumb twice. Fry in deep fat. Insert a piece of parsley stalk in each, and dish on fancy paper. Stewed Celery Head of celery, | pint of white sauce, slice of toast, made with liquid milk and water, from celery. Method.—Wash celery, scrape if necessary. Cut in neat lengths and tie in bundles. SimmerSECOND COURSE 93 in milk and water till tender (about two hours). Dish on toast. Coat with white sauce. Garnish with red pepper and dried parsley. Potato Chips Peel and shape the potatoes. Cut in very thin slices. Dry. Fry in fat that is just smoking till cooked. Drain. Repeat till all are fried. Then plunge into very hot fat to crisp and brown. They should just be a golden colour. Potato Straws Cut potatoes into strips about one-eighth of an inch square and an inch and a quarter long. Dry in a clean cloth and fry as potato chips. Drain, season and serve on a dish paper. French Beans Method.—String beans and cut into diamonds. Boil quickly in boiling, salted water, to which a pinch of soda has been added, till tender, about half an hour. Drain well. Return to pan with a pat of butter. Shake over fire. Season and serve very hot. Peas are cooked in the same way—sugar added instead of carbonate of soda. Also a sprig of mint.COOKERY RECIPES 94 LESSON XXII Roast Fowl Pluck, draw and singe the fowl. To truss, use a trussing needle and string. Put the gizzard through one wing and the liver through the other. Fold the pinions back. Cut off feet by the first joint. Draw sinews. Truss legs firmly against body. Place a piece of fat bacon on the breast. Roll in greased paper. Have dripping hot in roasting-tin. Baste fowl. Bake for about one hour to an hour and a half. When the bird is almost done, remove the paper, dredge breast with flour, and place in a very hot oven to brown. Rolls of bacon should be placed on a skewer and baked at side of tin. Dish on a hot dish, removing the skewers. Pour off fat and make gravy in the usual way. Season and pour a little round. Serve the remainder in a sauce- boat. Serve bread sauce. To draw the fowl.—Remove the head and neck close to the body, leaving about two inches of skin to fold over. Remove crop and windpipe. Loosen all organs with finger. Make an incision between the vent and the tail. Loosen all organs, and place two fingers round the gizzard, draw it carefully out. With it, all internal organs except the lungs should come. Now remove lungs. Scald the feet and scrape the outer skin off. Wipe the bird carefully out. Cut the gizzard and remove the contents, also the thick skin which encloses them. Wash it. Carefully remove the gall bladder from the liver, and wash it also. If these are not roasted with the fowl they can be simmered in a little stock or water and used for the gravy.SECOND COURSE 95 Boiled Fowl 1 fowl, 2 slices lemon, i onion stuck with cloves, i hard-boiled egg, a little dried parsley, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, | pint of milk, | pint of stock from fowl, seasonings. Method.—Pluck, singe, and draw the fowl, Truss by pocketing the legs and turning the wings underneath. Place two slices of lemon on the breast. Roll in a greased paper. Place in boiling water with the onion. Simmer gently for about one hour. Place on a hot dish. Untruss, and slip on to a hot ashet. Coat with the white sauce. Garnish with sieved yolk. Place the two halves of hard-boiled whites at ends, and pile sieved yolk in each. Garnish with parsley or coralline pepper. i duck, Roast Duck 2 oz. white fat. Stuffing \ lb. breadcrumbs, 3 onions, boiled and chopped sage (2 teaspoonsful), 1 oz. butter, mix and season, bind with egg. Method.—Pluck, singe and draw the duck. Wipe out with a damp cloth. Cut off feet at first joint. Draw sinews. Stuff the body with sage and onion stuffing. Truss. Cut off pinion at first joint. Secure wing to side of duck with thick part of leg. Double back the legs. Put tail through vent. Roll in greased paper and roastCOOKERY RECIPES 96 from forty-live minutes to an hour and a quarter (according to size) or till tender. Remove paper. Froth with flour. Baste and brown quickly in oven. Serve with ordinary roast gravy (thickened if liked) and apple sauce. Gravy Make stock by simmering bones from game, chicken, or rabbit, along with liver, gizzard, &c. Strain. Thicken half a pint with half a teaspoonful of arrowroot. Boil, season. Add half a teaspoon- ful of Liebig or Bovril, if liked. LESSON XXIII Game Roast Grouse Grouse should, like most game birds, be well hung if required for roasting. It is advisable to keep them hung, unplucked, for about one week. Great care must be taken in plucking, so as not to injure the skin, which is more delicate when birds have hung than when freshly killed. Method.—Pluck, singe, draw and truss the birds similarly to fowls. Place a piece of butter (size of nutmeg) mixed with pepper into bird. Place a piece of fat bacon over each. Roast, basting very liberally till done (well hung or high game should always be well cooked) from half to three-quarters of an hour. Untruss. Dish on a piece of fried or toasted bread. Garnish with watercress and fried crumbs. Serve potato chips, bread sauce, and gravy separately. N.B.—Pheasants, partridges, blackcock pre- pared in the same way.97 SECOND COUESE Jugged Hare i hare, i lb. steak, ij pint of stock, i gill of port wine, 20 peppercorns, salt, pepper, 11 oz. flour, 4 cloves, 3 oz. butter, bouquet of herbs, i onion, veal forcemeat. Method.—Cut steak into strips. Place a little forcemeat on each, roll up and fasten with string. Skin, paunch, and wipe the hare. Cut in joints. Fry quickly in butter. Place in a stew jar, add the onion and flavourings. Rinse out frying-pan with stock, pour on to hare. Cover closely down. Place in tin of boiling water and cook gently from two to three hours (if tender, two hours should be sufficient). Strain off gravy. Remove onion and flavourings. Thicken with flour. Add blood and the wine. Arrange nicely on a dish, removing string. Place forcemeat balls and croutes of red currant jelly round. Make into small balls. Bake on a tin in hot fat, basting constantly till golden-brown (about twenty minutes). Forcemeat 4 oz. breadcrumbs, \ teaspoonful of thyme, 2 oz. chopped suet, egg to bind, i tablespoonful of chopped parsley, | tablespoonful of salt, pepper. Croutes i tablespoonful of red currant jelly, i tablespoonful of water. Melt together, add 2 oz. glace cherries (cut in two). When quite hot, pile on rounds of fried bread. HCOOKERY RECIPES 98 LESSON XXIV Clear Soup 2 lb. shin of beef, \ lb. knuckle of veal or chicken bones, 1 lb. raw ham, 2 quarts of cold water, bunch of herbs, | teaspoonful of salt, 6 cloves, 2 sticks celery, 2 small carrots, 2 onions, fried a dark brown in 2 oz. butter (rather less), \ small turnip. Method.—Cut the meat and ham into small pieces, removing fat and marrow. Place in the cold water. Add salt. Bring very slowly to the boil. As it comes through, remove scum. Simmer for three hours. Add onions, drained well, and vegetables cut up, also herbs. Simmer two hours longer. Strain. When cold, remove fat and clear with 2 whites, | lb. shredded gravy 2 shells, beef, to each quart of stock. To clear.—Warm stock. If any fat is seen on surface remove it with paper. Season. Whisk whites. Have shells washed and crushed. Whisk them in along with gravy beef till stock is nearly simmering. Stop whisking and allow it to boil up. Simmer gently for ten minutes. Allow to settle. Pour some boiling water through soup cloth. Pour water away, and carefully pour soup through. If cloudy at all, repeat, pouring it through cloth till clear. Reheat. Add garnish- If wine is added, pour it through doth also.SECOND COURSE 99 Lemon Jelly 4 lemons, if pints of water, 1 gill sherry, 2 oz. gelatine, f lb. of loaf sugar, Method.—Place water, sugar, and gelatine in a pan (previously scalded). Stir till gelatine is melted. Wipe lemons. Peel very thinly. Add rinds and juice. Whisk whites to a stiff froth, and whisk well into jelly. Bring to boil. Boil well up. Simmer ten minutes. Settle. Pour through prepared bag. Add sherry. Repeat till clear. N.B.—Do not wait till all the jelly has run through each time. Mould when cool. 2 whites and shells, 2 or 3 inches cinnamon stick may be added if liked. Aspic Jelly 2\ oz. gelatine, i quart of water, 1 dessertspoonful of salt, 2 bayleaves, 2 sticks celery, | teacupful of brown vinegar, io peppercorns, 2 teaspoonsful of tarra- gon vinegar, io allspice berries, juice of i lemon, 2 onions, piece of carrot, 2 shells, 2 whites. Method.—Dissolve gelatine in water. Add all ingredients. Clear in usual way with whites and shells. Pour through cloth or jelly-bag. Use when cool.TOO COOKERY RECIPES LESSON XXV Vanilla Cream Custard 3 yolks and i white, i tablespoonful of sugar, | pint of milk, i teaspoonful of vanilla. Method.—Heat milk. Pour over beaten eggs, sugar and vanilla. Return to pan, and stir till it coats the spoon. Pour at once into a cold basin. Stir occasionally while cooling. Dissolve in lined pan two tablespoonsful of water, half an ounce of gelatine. Add to custard. Whip half a pint of double cream till thick. When custard is tepid stir it into cream. More sugar and vanilla may be added if necessary. Mould when setting. Turn out and decorate. N.B.—The mould may be previousl)- lined and decorated with jelly. To turn out.—Place the bottom of mould in a basin of warm water and turn out carefully. Decorate with chopped jelly, angelica, pistachios, or fruits. Charlotte Russe Trim some sponge finger biscuits evenly. Brush the edges of the biscuits with white of egg, and line a plain mould with them. No. i. For Filling \ pint of double cream, rather less than \ oz. \ teaspoonful essence of gelatine dissolved in vanilla, 2 tablespoonsful of 1 tablespoonful of water, sugar, Method.—Whip cream. Add sugar, essence,SECOND COURSE ior and dissolved tepid gelatine. Pour into pre- pared mould when setting. Apricot Charlotte Russe No. 2. For Filling | pint of apricot puree, l pint of double cream, carmine, i teaspoonful of lemon juice, I tablespoonful of sugar, £ oz. gelatine dissolved in 2 tablespoonsful of water. Method.—Rub one gill of puree through hair sieve. Add sugar, lemon, carmine to colour, and hot dissolved gelatine. When tepid add to whipped cream and pour into prepared mould when setting. Plain Trifle 1 oz. flour, oz. sugar, 2 yolks and i white, raspberry jam, sherry (| gill), | pint milk, \ lemon rind, 3 penny sponge-cakes, almonds and angelica. Method.—Mix the flour with a little cold milk. Put the remainder on in a pan with the lemon rind to get hot. Stir it on to the flour. Add the beaten eggs and sugar. Stir till it boils and cooks. Pour into a basin. Stir occasionally till cool. Split the sponge-cakes. Spread with jam. Place evenly in a glass dish. Soak with sherry and water or fruit syrup. Pour the custard over and decorate with almonds or pistachios and angelica.102 COOKERY RECIPES LESSON XXVI Gooseberry Fool i pint of gooseberries, a little water, sugar. Custard \ pint milk, i yolk, sap green, cornflour, sugar. i dessertspoonful of Method.—Stir the gooseberries with sugar to sweeten and a little water. Rub through a hair sieve. Make a custard with the milk, yolk, cornflour, and sugar. Mix with the puree, sweeten to taste, and colour with sap green. Serve in a glass dish. Any bottled or tinned fruits may also be cut up and added. Half a pint water or syrup from tin, six ounces of sugar. Boil together till thick, colour with carmine, add one tablespoonful of brandy, two tablespoonsful of sherry, one tablespoonful of liqueur, and lemon juice. Mix fruit and soak in above. Keep on ice till wanted. Serve in a crystal dish. Sprinkle chopped cocoanut over, or cover (if liked) with whipped cream sweetened and flavoured. Fruit Salad Fruit in season, Grapes peeled and stoned, Peaches peeled and cut up, &c. SyrupSECOND COURSE 103 Lemon Cream | 0z. gelatine, 3 lemons, \ pint water, 3 eggs. | lb. loaf sugar, Method.—Rub the rinds of two lemons on to sugar. Dissolve gelatine and sugar in water. Add lemon juice. Pour over beaten eggs. Re- turn to pan and stir over gentle heat till eggs are cooked. Strain into basin. When cool, mould. Turn on to glass dish when firm. Compbte of Fruit Make a syrup by boiling together | pint water, 6 oz. sugar, and the skins of the fruits used (a few only). When into a syrup remove the skins, and, if neces- sary, strain. Place the fruit in the syrup and simmer till tender. Any fruits can be used, those that take longest to cook being put on first. Great care must be taken that the fruits are not broken, though quite tender. Pile on a dish. Colour and flavour the syrup. Pour over and decorate according to taste. LESSON XXVII French Bread \ lb. Vienna flour, \ egg, | oz. yeast, about 1 gill milk, v, teaspoonful of salt, | oz. butter. | teaspoonful of sugar, Method.—Cream yeast and sugar. Add one dessertspoonful of tepid milk and set in a warmCOOKERY RECIPES 104 place till frothy. Rub butter into flour. Place salt round edges of basin. Pour yeast into centre, set to prove. Add warm milk to beaten egg. Pour on to yeast and mix to a light dough. Knead well. Cover. Set to rise for about one hour in a warm place. When doubled in size re-knead. Form into plaits, rolls, &c. Brush with egg. Allow to rise for ten minutes. Bake in a very hot oven. Dinner Rolls Dough as for French bread. Roll out three quarters of an inch thick. Cut in rounds. Place on a greased tin. Allow to rise ten minutes. Bake in a quick oven. Place on pastry tray and brush with melted butter. Dinner Rolls (made with Baking Powder) | lb. flour, pinch to | teaspoonful 1 oz. lard, of salt, water to mix (about i teaspoonful of baking i gill), powder, | teaspoonful of sugar. Method.—Rub lard into flour. Add salt and baking powder. Mix to a dough with water. Form into rolls. Brush with egg and bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. Sally Lunns | lb. flour, \ teaspoonful of salt, 2 oz. butter, | oz. yeast, \ teaspoonful of castor i egg, sugar, i gill warm milk. Method.—Cream yeast with sugar. Add a little warm milk. Set in a warm place till frothy.105 SECOND COURSE W^rm flour. Make a well in centre. Pour in yeast and allow to crack through. Sprinkle salt round edges. Beat up egg. Melt butter in the milk and add to egg. Pour on to yeast. Mix and work till smooth. Divide into two portions. Place in very well greased tins and set in a warm place to rise for one hour. Bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. N.B.—If tins are not very well greased the cakes will stick. LESSON XXVIII Sponge Cake 5 eggs, weight of 3 in sifted weight of 4 in sifted flour, sugar, rind of \ lemon (grated). Method.—Break eggs separately. Whisk slightly and add sugar. Whisk over a pan of boiling water and then at board for twenty minutes. Fold in flour and lemon rind or essence with an iron spoon. Pour into prepared cake tin. Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour and a quarter. To prepare tin.—Line with buttered paper and sprinkle over with one teaspoonful of flour and one teaspoonful of sugar mixed. If a fluted tin is used butter or grease with melted suet and sprinkle as above. Tie a band of paper round outside of tin.COOKERY RECIPES io6 Small Cakes Louise Cakes 2 oz. sugar, i| oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, i| oz. cornflour, i egg (well beaten), a few drops essence of 1 teaspoonful of baking lemon, powder. Method.—Grease eight deep patty tins. Cream the butter and sugar. Add the sifted flour, cornflour and egg alternately. Add essence and baking powder. Half-fill tins and bake about ten or fifteen minutes in a fairly quick oven. Jam Sandwich 2 eggs, | teaspoonful of baking 3 oz. flour, powder, 3 oz. sugar, lemon essence or rind, i\ oz. butter (melted), Method.—Beat eggs and sugar over hot water for about fifteen minutes. Have flour and baking powder sifted. Fold in melted butter, flour and baking powder, also flavouring. Pour into a prepared sandwich tin and bake about twenty minutes. When cold, cut in two, spread with jam, and dust with icing sugar. Mocha Cake 3 eggs, i teaspoonful of coffee 3! oz. sugar, essence. 3! oz. flour, Whisk eggs and sugar till thick and creamy. Fold in the flour, then essence. Pour into aSECOND COURSE 107 prepared tin and bake about three-quarters of an hour. When cold, ice and decorate. Coffee Icing and Pink Icing 3 oz. fresh butter, 3 oz. icing sugar. Cream together. Divide in two parts. Colour one pink and flavour with rose or vanilla. Add coffee essence to flavour the other part. The cake may be split into three and have a layer of pink and a layer of coffee icing between the slices. Then decorate either by piping all over with rosettes in sections of coffee and pink, or by coating the sides with icing and baked almonds and piping the top only. LESSON XXIX Pound Cake \ lb. flour, 4 eggs, ^ lb. butter, \ lb. currants, h lb. sugar, \ lb. sultanas. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar. Add eggs and flour alternately. Beat thoroughly. Add currants and sultanas. Bake in a tin lined with cartridge paper for about two hours. Rice Cake | lb. sugar, 6 oz. butter, \ lb. rice flour, 4 eggs, 2 oz. flour, almond essence. 2 oz. ground rice, Method.—Make as above. The following may be added if liked : | lb. sultanas, 1 oz. ground almonds. £ lb. peel,io8 COOKER V RECIPES Fruit Cake i lb. flour, | lb. butter, lb. sugar, 4 eggs, about | teacupful of milk, lb. sultanas, \ lb. currants, l lb. peel (chopped), essence of lemon, pinch of salt, i teaspoonful of baking powder. Method.—Rub butter into the flour. Add all the dry ingredients (except the baking powder). Beat up eggs. Add them with enough milk to allow mixture to be thoroughly beaten. Add baking powder. Mix well. Bake from three to four hours. Chocolate Cake 6 oz. flour, 6 oz. sugar, 6 oz. chocolate powder, 6 oz. butter, | teaspoonful of baking 4 eggs, powder, vanilla. Method.—Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and flour and chocolate powder alternately. Lastly, vanilla and baking powder. Place into a prepared tin and bake. Chocolate Icing \ lb. sieved icing sugar, about 2 tablespoonsful 3 oz. chocolate powder, of water. vanilla, Method.—Dissolve chocolate in water. Add sugar and vanilla. When just the right con- sistency, pour over the cake. N.B.—Icing must not be made more than luke- warm after sugar is added.SECOND COURSE 109 LESSON XXX Curried Veal 1 lb. fillet of veal 1 onion (chopped), 1 apple (chopped), 2 oz. blitter, salt, 1 tablespoonful of cream. 11 gill stock, 1 oz. flour, 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful of curry paste, lemon juice. Method.—Fry the chopped apple and onion in the butter. Mix curry powder and flour. Toss veal, cut in small squares, in it. Fry in the butter. Now fry the flour and curry powder slightly. Add paste, also stock, and boil up. Return meat, apple and onion and simmer gently for one hour or till tender. Add lemon juice, salt, and cream. One teaspoonful of chutney may be added if liked. Serve in a border of rice. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Dried parsley, sieved yolk or coralline pepper may also be used. Curry of Cold Meat Method.—Make curry sauce as for fresh meat. After boiling the sauce return fried apple and onion and simmer gently for half an hour. Add pieces of cold meat, neatly cut in small squares. Reheat. Add salt, lemon juice, and cream. Have border of rice ready. Dish curry in centre. Garnish. Fresh vegetables to be curried should be pre- viously cooked, neatly cut and curried as above. Hard-boiled eggs to be curried should be cut in halves and carefully heated through in the above sauce, served with rice border.1 IO COOKERY RECIPES Boiled Rice l lb. Patna rice, 3 pints of boiling 3 teaspoonsful of salt, water. Method.—Wash rice in several waters (six or seven). Add salt to boiling water. Place rice in. Bring quickly to the boil again. Boil from seven to ten minutes (without lid). When cooked, turn on to wire sieve. Allow cold water to run over to separate the grains and to stop the cooking. Butter a paper and line pan with it, greased side up. Place rice in and cover over with paper. Place on stove (not too hot) and steam for two hours, or till dry. Toss it about occasion- ally with a fork. LESSON XXXI Sardine Pyramids 5 diamonds of toasted chopped dried parsley, or fried bread, cayenne, 2 sardines, salt, \ oz. butter, coralline pepper. Method.—Remove skin and bone from fish. Pound in a mortar with butter and seasoning. Mound on the toast. Sprinkle with parsley and cayenne pepper. Serve on a fancy paper with sprigs of watercress round. Anchovy Eggs 2 hard-boiled eggs, anchovy essence, 1 oz. butter, cayenne. Method.—Shell the eggs. Cut in halves. Carefully remove yolks. Pound them with butter,SECOND COURSE 111 anchovy essence, or paste, seasoning and carmine if necessary. Sieve. Place in bag and rose pipe. Fill cups with large rosettes. Dish on a bed of salad. Cheese Straws 2 oz. flour, | teaspoonful of dry i oz. butter, mustard, i oz. grated cheese, i yolk, cayenne and salt, Method.—Rub butter into flour. Add dry ingredients. Mix to a stiff paste with yolk and water. Roll out one-eighth of an inch in thick- ness. Cut into strip two inches wide, and then into straws. Cut rings also with two round cutters. Bake till straw colour in a moderately hot oven. Cool on pastry tray. Place straws through rings, and dish on a fancy paper. LESSON XXXII Macaroni a la Tomate 3 large tomatoes, seasoning, 1 oz. butter, | oz. cooked ham. 2 oz. macaroni, Method.—Cut tomatoes in slices, and cook them in the butter. When tender, rub through a hair sieve and season. Boil the macaroni in salted water till tender. Strain. Pour cold water over and cut in one-inch lengths. Cut ham in shreds and add it with the macaroni to the tomato puree. Heat through. Serve in an au gratin dish, sprinkled over with parsley.COOKERY RECIPES I 12 Savoury Omelet 3 eggs, salt and pepper, i i oz. butter, i tablespoonful of i teaspoonful of milk or water, chopped parsley, Method.—Beat the eggs. Add parsley, water, seasoning, and half the butter, cut in small pieces. Heat the remainder of the butter. Pour omelet in. Stir slightly. Draw to side of pan, and when set turn quickly on to a hot dish. Garnish with parsley. It should take about three minutes to cook. Macaroni a la Milanese 2 oz. macaroni, boiled and cut in one-inch lengths, 3 tomatoes, \ oz. butter, i slice of onion, seasoning, i oz. butter, i gill of milk, i oz. flour, tomato puree. Make into a sauce, season, and add i oz. grated cheese, | tablespoonful of cream, carmine if necessary. Method.—Have macaroni in a pan. Pour most of this sauce over. Mix, and make very hot. Pour into an au gratin dish. Coat with the remainder of the sauce and garnish with parsley. Semolina Slabs 3 oz. semolina, salt and cayenne, i pint of milk, egg, 3 oz. grated cheese, crumbs. Method.—Boil the milk, sift in the semolina, and cook till quite thick and transparent. Add | Cook together and sieve when tomatoes are I tender.SECOND COURSE • i3 cheese and seasonings. Spread on a wet plate and divide into portions. When cool, form into square blocks. Coat with egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve on a fancy paper, sprinkled with cheese. Half this quantity will make a nice dish. Cheese Aigrettes 11 oz. flour, salt and cayenne, 1 oz. grated cheese, 1 egg, | oz. butter, 1 yolk. 1 gill of water, Method.—Boil the butter and water together. Add flour, and beat till it forms a ball. Add cheese and seasonings. Beat in eggs (separately). Have fat barely smoking. Place mixture in small teaspoonsful. Fry golden brown. Drain. Dish on fancy paper and dust over with cheese. LESSON XXXIII Tea Method.—Have water freshly boiled. Pour some (about a cupful) into teapot to make it thoroughly hot. Empty this, and place in about one teaspoonful of tea for each breakfast cup required. Pour boiling water on, and infuse by the fire for three minutes. It is then ready. Coffee (Cafe Noir) Method.—Warm the jug and put one table- spoonful of coffee into it for each breakfast-cup of water. Pour boiling water over, stir well, and infuse by fire for three or four minutes. Strain 1114 COOKERY RECIPES through muslin. If for breakfast, serve with equal quantity of boiled milk—cafe au lait. N.B.—The white of an egg can be put in with the coffee to clear it. Cocoa Method.—One teaspoonful of cocoa. Dissolve in a little milk. Pour over a breakfast-cupful of boiling milk or water, or milk and water mixed. Serve at once. Bacon and Eggs Method.—Heat frying pan. Place in the slices of bacon. Fry quickly, turning till fat is transparent and beginning to crimp. Have hot ashet ready. Dish the bacon, and break eggs carefully into a saucer. Slip them into pan and fry carefully in the fat from the bacon. Season, and baste with the fat. When set, place in centre of the dish. The eggs may be turned if liked. Grilled Kidneys Method.—Have ready a slice of buttered toast. Remove the skin from two kidneys. Split them across and remove the fat and tubing. Wash well and dry. Place a skewer through them, and a small piece of butter on cut side of each. Have grill red hot. Grease the bars and grill kidneys quickly, sealing the cut side first and then turning them frequently. They take about five minutes. Season and serve at once on toast garnished with parsley and rolls of bacon. Kidneys may be fried quickly and served in the same way.115 SECOND COURSE Kedgeree 1 teacupful of flaked fish, 2 teacupsful of boiled rice, salt and pepper, i oz. melted butter, pieces of hard-boiled white of egg (chopped), i egg (raw), beaten. Method.—Mix all together in a lined pan. Make very hot. Season. Pile on a hot dish. Sprinkle sieved yolk over and garnish with stars or fancy shapes of white of egg. A little dry parsley may also be used to garnish. Beef Galantine | lb. sausage meat, | lb. beef steak, lb. raw ham, small piece of onion, eggs to bind, l lb. breadcrumbs, J lb. mushrooms, seasonings, a few pistachios. Method.—Put beef and ham through the mincer twice separately, then once together. Chop mushrooms and onion finely. Mix all ingredients together. Blanch and add a few pistachios. Season well. Bind with egg. Make it into a roll. Have ready a pan of boiling water. Dip cloth in and roll galantine in it. Boil gently for two hours and a half. When cold, glaze and decorate.SUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES French Soup 4 potatoes, 3 onions, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, \ teaspoonful celery salt, 1 tablespoonful parsley, 2 oz. butter, 1 pint milk, 3 pints water, 1 oz. sago, | teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonful pepper. Method.—Cut up vegetables into slices. Put butter into saucepan. When melted, put in vegetables. Allow to season ten minutes. Add pepper and salt. Shake the pan to prevent them sticking, then add cold water, and boil soft enough to rub through a sieve. Then return to saucepan. Add milk and sago. Boil till quite soft. Crecy Soup 4 carrots, 1 slice of ham, or ham bone, 2 onions, 2 or 3 stalks of celery, 2 lumps of sugar, 1 turnip, 1 oz. butter, 1 quart second stock. Method.—Slice the vegetables. Put into a pan with the butter. Cook ten minutes. Pour over the stock. Add twelve peppercorns. Simmer two hours. Rub the pulp through a sieve. Add>17 SUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES pepper and salt to taste. Serve with sippets of fried bread. Lobster au Gratin | tin lobster, 3 shallots, 1 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 tablespoonful chopped 1 egg, parsley, salt and cayenne. | teaspoonful anchovy sauce, Method.—Cut the lobster into small pieces. Lightly brown shallots, then add flour. Add milk. Simmer five minutes. Put in lobster, parsley, salt, cayenne and anchovy. Stir till it boils. Cool. Add well-beaten egg. Fill scallop shells. Sprinkle crumbs over. Pour on a little clarified butter. Put in oven twenty minutes. Serve very hot. Salmon Mould 1 tin salmon, 1 tablespoonful Tarragon oz. leaf gelatine, vinegar, pinch of ground mace, 2 or 3 tablespoonsful common vinegar, salt, pepper, cayenne. Method.—Remove skin and bone from fish. Mince finely. Put gelatine with three table- spoonsful of water into a pan. Stir over gentle heat till dissolved. Add to salmon, vinegar and seasoning. Stir. When nearly cold turn into wet mould. Let it set; when cold and firm, turn out, and serve on a bed of salad.COOKERY RECIPES T 1 8 Timbales of Haddock k la Genoise | lb. dried haddock, \ gill white sauce, £ oz. gelatine dissolved f gill whipped cream,' in 2 tablespoonsful \ teaspoonful Tarragon water, vinegar, a little hard-boiled yolk a little lobster coral or of egg, coralline pepper. Method.—Dissolve gelatine ; add white sauce, whipped cream, lemon-juice, and minced haddock (having, prepared it by putting in oven with greased paper over). Prepare dariole moulds. Put coralline and a little chopped yolk at bottom with about one teaspoonful aspic jelly to set it. Put .mixture into a basin over pan of hot water ; stir till well mixed. Then put into moulds, and on the top put about one teaspoonful of liquid aspic. Dip into hot water for a second. Turn out. Garnish with chopped aspic and a little parsley. Potted Herrings C fresh herrings, i finely minced onion, i teaspoonful chopped \ teaspoonful vinegar, parsley, l teaspoonful pepper. \ teaspoonful salt, | teaspoonful water, Method.—Well wash the fish. Cut off the heads. Slit down with a knife ; remove roes ; press open with the forefinger, remove back-SUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES 119 bone ; cut off the fins. Wash again. Spread flat. Sprinkle with seasoning. Roll up. Place in a piedish. Scatter the onion over. Pour on vinegar and water. Cover with a flat dish. Bake all night in a slow oven. Huitres au Lit 6 native oysters, 6 thin slices of bacon, 6 croutons, watercress. Method.—Roll a slice of bacon round each oyster. Put on a skewer. Put in a very hot oven for three minutes till the bacon is done. Garnish with watercress. Salmis of Pheasant Remains of pheasant i| oz. flour, (better if underdone), glass of port wine, 1 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful red currant 1 shallot, jelly or | teaspoonful a few sweet herbs, sugar, 1 bay leaf, § pint stock made from pheasant bones and skin. Method.—Fry flour and butter brown. Add stock. Boil. Add jelly, shallot and bay leaf, also wine. Allow to stand twenty minutes. Strain. Put in pieces of game.120 COOKERY RECIPES Rissoles a la Pompadour | oz. butter, | oz. flour, pinch of sugar, \ pint stock, 3 mushrooms, if liked, a small piece of 2 tablespoonsful minced shallot, ham or tongue, 4 tablespoonsful minced chicken, rabbit, veal or any white meat. Method.—Cook flour and butter together, and add stock. Boil up. Add shallot, then minced mushrooms, ham and chicken. Mix all together. Stand aside to cool. Make short crust of | lb. flour, 1 oz. lard, 1 oz. butter, ^ teaspoonful baking powder. Cut into rounds with a cutter. Moisten edges with water. Put a little of the mixture on one piece. Cover with another. Take them up and pinch together. Egg and crumb well. Fry in hot fat. Cotelettes a la Dejeuner I pint milk, II oz. cold chicken or game, 1 oz. butter, 1 raw yolk, 1 truffle, egg and crumbs, small blade of mace, h shallot or 1 small one, i oz. flour, a little salt, cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoonful finely chopped ham or tongue 2 mushrooms. Method.—Boil milk, shallot and mace together. Strain. Make panada with butter, flour andSUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES 121 flavoured milk. Add yolk. When panada is thoroughly cooked, put over gentle heat to cook but not to boil. Put panada into a basin. Add the chicken or game, which should be cut into small dice ; also chopped ham and seasoning, the minced mushrooms and sliced truffle. Put on a greased or floured plate. Allow to cool, then form into tiny cutlets with rice-flour. Egg and bread- crumb. Fry in hot fat. Serve, if for breakfast, on a large crouton ; if for lunch, serve with a sauce (tomato or any rich sauce). Put a little piece of parsley stalk into the end of each cutlet. Mock Game Beef steak, some rashers of bacon, i finely chopped onion, \ teaspoonful lemon rind, i teaspoonful capers, i wineglass vinegar, i tablespoonful red cur- i wineglass stock, rant jelly, Method.—Cut the beef into square pieces half an inch thick. Lay a piece of raw bacon on each. Dredge well with flour. Roll up and skewer the beef. Melt some dripping, and brown the meat. Then add the onion, peel, capers, and stock. Cover, and stew together till tender. Dish the meat. Strain the gravy and thicken. Season and add jelly. Garnish with sippets.122 COOKERY RECIPES Blanquette of i lb. veal cut into pieces herbs, tied in muslin, 5 peppercorns, 2 cloves, 21 oz. butter, l pint cream, a little chopped ham for garnish, Veal or Rabbit 2 onions, 1 teaspoonful Liebig extract, 21 oz. flour, 2 yolks, juice of 1 lemon. Method.—Put the veal into a stewpan with the onion and cloves stuck in it, herbs and Liebig. Cover with cold water. Bring to boil. Skim. Cook very gently i|- hour. Strain the liquor. Put meat on a hot dish. Cook the butter and flour together. Add the liquor. Mix the yolks and cream together. Cook, but do not boil, after the yolks are added. Pour the sauce over the meat. Garnish with chopped ham. Jugged Hare Joint the hare and take care of the blood. Fry the joints and 1 lb. of beef-steak cut up in some butter. Put alternate layers of hare and beef in a stewjar. On the top lay a whole carrot, turnip, onion, with four cloves, three stalks of celery, bouquet garni. Cover with second stock, and stand in oven or in a saucepan of water and stew four hours. Take from the oven. Skim off any fat. Mix 3 oz. flour with the blood and a wineglass of port. Mix with 1 pint of the stock, and boil in a saucepan. Return to the jar with the hare, and add salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 1 tea- spoonful mixed mustard, and 1 tablespoonful black or red currant jelly. It may remain in the5UPPLEMENTAR Y RECIPES oven half an hour longer. Add fried forcemeat balls. Gateau de Veau i breast of veal, slices of lean ham, 4 hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Method.—Put bones into saucepan with a little water. Cut the eggs in slices, arrange at the bottom of the mould (ungreased). Then put layers of veal, ham, and season with parsley, pepper and salt. Pour the stock over when cold (having added a little isinglass). Bake in a slow oven three hours. Place a weight on it till cold, when it will turn out, the jelly appearing round. Brawn 1 pig’s head, 40 peppercorns, blade of mace, 4 cloves, 2 onions, 12 allspice, bunch of herbs, Method.—Put the head in a pan with enough cold water to cover. Boil one hour and a half, or longer if not tender. Remove it from the saucepan, take the flesh from the bones, return the bones to the pan, then add the seasoning. Boil till reduced to one pint. Cut the meat into small pieces. Strain the liquor. Put into the saucepan with pieces of meat. Boil all, and put into a mould which has had cold water standing in it. A little dissolved gelatine may be added.124 COOKERY RECIPES Pickle for Pig’s Head, Meat, &c. i gallon water, i lb. salt, 6 oz. brown sugar, § oz. saltpetre. Method.—Let all the ingredients come to the boil. Boil live minutes, skimming the whole time. Set aside to cool. Put into a pan, and put the meat in for three or four days to pickle. Pickle for one Ham i quart strong beer, | lb. treacle, \ lb. coarse sugar, | oz. salprunella, 1 oz. coriander seeds, 2 oz. juniper berries, i oz. each of pepper, all- spice, cloves, saltpetre and a few heads of shallots, all to be ground very fine. Boil together for a few minutes. When cold, pour over the ham, and rub it every day for three weeks. Dry, and smoke if desired. The ham should previously be salted for a fortnight ; and if saltpetre is used when salting, it is an un- necessary ingredient in the pickle. Pickle for Tongues or Hams 8 quarts water, 2 lb. coarse sugar (Foot), 21 lb. common salt, 2 lb. bay salt. \ lb. saltpetre, Method.—Mix the above together. Well rub the meat with the sugar, and let it well drain before125 SUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES putting it into the pickle. A small ham should lie a fortnight in pickle ; a large one three weeks ; a tongue twelve days ; and beef according to size. They may be used from the pickle ; but if dried, let them drain well, then dry them thoroughly. Can be smoked, if liked. Curried Lentils | lb. split lentils, 3 medium-sized onions, 3 oz. butter or ch ipping, pinch salt, 1 dessertspoonful curry rice border, powder, Method.—Wash and steep lentils overnight. Chop the onions fineW. Melt the butter in a lined pan. Add lentils, onions and curry powder. Cover closely and saute gently till all quite cooked. If very dry, a little stock ma3’ be added. Dish in centre of a rice border. Beans and Bacon lb. haricot beans, 1 onion, l lb. fat bacon, pepper and salt. Method.—Wash and soak the beans overnight. Place in a pan and well cover with cold water. Add the onion. Simmer till beans are tender, one to two hours. Fry the bacon, and, after taking from the pan, place in the beans and stir gently till they have absorbed the fat ; but do not let brown. Season. Pile on hot dish. Garnish with the bacon.COOKERY RECIPES 126 Cauliflower in Batter i parboiled cauliflower. Batter 2 tablespoonsful breadcrumbs, i egg, 3 tablespoonsful flour, \ pint milk. | teaspoonful salt, Method.—Mix flour and crumbs. Beat up egg ; add it whole to flour, then mix with milk till of coating consistency. Beat well. Lay aside half an hour. Divide cauliflower into natural sprigs. Coat with batter. Fry in hot fat. Drain. Dish immediately. Garnish with coralline pepper. Turnip Pudding a la Russe Wash, blanch, peel and boil some large turnips cut in slices, and warm in a saucepan with some melted butter, a pinch of sugar and some thick Bechamel sauce. Boil a minute, and pass through tammy, and add eggs to make puree a good sub- stance. Put into well-buttered mould which has a well in the centre. Steam and garnish the middle with prettily cut vegetables which have been stirred in Bechamel sauce. Can also be made with carrots or spinach. Scalloped Eggs 5 eggs, i teacupful mashed i tablespoonful Worcester potatoes, sauce, i teacupful boiled rice, | teaspoonful vinegar, | oz. butter, melted. Method.—Cook eggs three minutes. Remove5 UPPLEMENTAR1' RECIPES 127 shells. Chop roughly. Mix together rice and potatoes, seasonings and butter. Put mixture into scallop shells. Add breadcrumbs and bits of butter. Bake light brown. Egg Cutlets 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, cayenne, salt, yolk of 1 egg, 3 hard-boiled eggs, | pint milk. Method.—Make a panada. Add seasoning and raw yolk and well-minced eggs. Spread the mix- ture on a well-greased dinner plate. When cold form into cutlets. Egg and crumb. Fry in hot fat. Put a parsley stalk in each cutlet. Ham Toast £ lb. cooked ham, 1 yolk of egg, squeeze of lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful cream, \ oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful stock, pepper, salt and croutons, Method.—Put the butter, stock, cream, lemon- juice and seasoning into a pan. When the butter is melted, add the minced ham, and stir over the fire till the egg looks dry. Fry the croutons. Pile the mixture in little mounds on them. Arrange in an entree dish. Garnish with parsley, and serve very hot.COOKERY RECIPES 128 Beef Olives i lb. steak, i oz. flour, 6 peppercorns, salt, i small onion, 1 tablespoonful mush- room ketchup, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, \ teaspoonful sweet herbs, 1 egg, 11 oz. butter, i pint stock, 1 stick of celery or \ tea- spoonful celery seeds, 2 cloves, | teaspoonful salt. i oz. suet, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Forcemeat Method.—Cut the meat into thin slices. Spread the forcemeat on them. Roll and tie up. Make a gravy as follows : Put the butter into a stewpan. Fry the onion. Then brown slightly the pieces of meat. Remove them. Add the flour, then the stock, gradually. Boil. Then put in the olives, and simmer very gently one hour and a half. Potato Surprises 2 oz. minced meat, a little white sauce, a little lemon rind, dried herbs, seasoning of pepper, salt, Form this mixture into balls. Method.—Put i lb. potatoes (cold boiled) into a basin, mashed. Add \ oz. dissolved butter, enough egg to bind or two tablespoonsful of milk. Cover the little balls of meat with this mixtureSUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES 129 without a crack. Fry in hot fat. Garnish with parsley. German Potatoes 8 potatoes, 4 sausages or any minced meat. Method.—Cut off the tops of each potato. Scoop out some of the inside. Cut each sausage in half, skin it, and fill the potato with it. Put on the top. Put on a greased tin and bake about half an hour. Vegetable Marrow Goose Peel the marrow. Cut off end and scoop out inside. Parboil two onions (with a little carbonate of soda to take off strong flavour). Four sage leaves. Two or three tablespoonsful of bread- crumbs. Pinch of ground ginger to make it more digestible. Method.—Mince the onion. Add to crumbs and sage, then pepper, salt and ginger. Stuff the marrow with this. Put on the top ; bind up with tape. Put into pan of hot water or stock. Simmer half an hour. Then put into flat greased dripping pan. Sprinkle over with crumbs. Put bits of dripping on top, and bake twenty minutes or half an hour. If you have no pan large enough to simmer the marrow in, then put into a piedish with water and stand in oven. To egg before crumbing is an improvement, but not necessary. Serve with some gravy made by putting flour into the baking tin. Pour stock in and boil up. KCOOKERY RECIPES i 30 SWEETS AND CAKES Sago and Rhubarb Mould 1 lb. rhubarb, \ lb. sugar, 3 02. line sago, strip of lemon rind, A little colouring, if the rhubarb is green Method.—Wash the sago ; put in a saucepan with sliced rhubarb, sugar and rind. Boil half an hour, taking great care it does not burn. Remove the peel ; put in the sugar and colouring. Turn into a wet mould. When cold, turn out with Custard Sauce 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful cornflour, I dessertspoonful sugar, \ pint milk. Mix cornflour and milk. Add beaten egg. Pour all into a jug, which stand in a saucepan of water, and allow the water to come to boiling point. Continue stirring the custard till it coats the back of the spoon. Pour out at once, and stir occasionally till it is cool. Madeira Pudding II oz. butter, 1 teacupful castor sugar, \ teacupful milk, 1 egg, 1 teacupful flour, 2 teaspoonsful baking powder. Method.—Cream butter. Add sugar, flour and baking powder. Separate yolk from white. AddSUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES 131 yolk and milk, then the beaten white. Bake in a tin in a quick oven for twenty-five minutes. Good Cabinet Pudding 4 penny sponges, angelica, few ratiiia biscuits, cherries, custard, German egg sauce. Custard 3 eggs, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 pint milk (short), 1 teaspoonful flavouring essence. Method.—Take a plain mould that holds little more than one pint. Butter thickly. Line with buttered paper. Decorate with cherries and angelica at bottom. Cut sponges into strips exact height of tin, and line sides neatly. Fill the mould three-quarters full with the rest of the cake, crumbled, and the biscuits. Pour the uncooked custard in to within half an inch of top. Stand half an hour. Then steam gently for three- quarters to one hour. Stand flve minutes. Turn out, and serve with German egg, custard, or wine sauce poured round. Sago Cream 2 oz. fine sago or tapioca, some ratafia biscuits, 1 pint milk, almond essence, sherry, pistachios. | pint cream, Method.—Simmer milk and sago in a double pan till cooked. Cool, and add sugar to sweeten,COOKER Y RECIPES U2 and almond essence, and then slice in the slightly whisked cream. Have some ratafias soaked in sherry in the bottom of a glass dish. Pour cream over. Decorate with more ratafias and pistachios. Lemon Sponge i pint cold water, f lb. loaf sugar, 3 lemons, f oz. gelatine (12 sheets), whites of 2 large eggs, Method.—Place water, gelatine, sugar and thinly pared rind of two lemons in a pan. Stir till dissolved. Add lemon juice, and bring to boil. Simmer for a minute or two to extract the flavour. Strain, and allow to cool. Whisk whites very stiffly. Add cool mixture, and continue whisking till snow white and thick. Pour at once, before it sets, into a wetted mould. When set, unmould and decorate with pistachios. German Apple Tart Mixture i 1 \ lb. apples, l lb. sugar, \ lb. dates or prunes, 1 teaspoonful spice, little water, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Pastry \ lb. flour, \ lb. butter, 1 egg, \ teaspoonful baking 1 oz. sifted sugar, 1 teaspoonful spice, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, little wat r. powder, Method for Mixture.—Stone dates or prunes ;5 UPPLEMENTA R V RECIPES -■> i jj peel and core the apples. Stew till a pulp. When cold, add spices and mix well. Method joy Pastry.—Make as for short crust. Cut out two rounds size of tart ring. Cut out a long strip rather wider than ring. Grease baking sheet and ring. Fit in the strip close to the sides with a slight edge resting on the sheet. Wet this edge and place in one round. Fill with mixture. Wet edge and place on second round as lid. Bake about one hour. When cold, top may be iced if liked. Apple Roll Make a good tart paste and roll it out one- sixth of an inch thick. Sprinkle over it finely chopped apple, flavoured with grated lemon peel, and one-third as much moist sugar as apple (a little quince improves the pudding). Roll up and seal the ends by wetting where required. Lay the roll in a buttered baking dish and put half a teacupful of water, a piece of butter as large as a walnut and a piled tablespoonful of moist sugar in the dish around the roll. Grate a little nutmeg over, and set to bake in a moderately quick oven. The sauce in the pan should be poured over the roll before serving. Layer Pudding Make a light suet crust. Roll out thin. Cut it in rounds the size of a cake tin, in which later the pudding will be boiled. Place a round of paste at the bottom of the tin. Put a strip round the edges. Spread a layer of jam, then a layer of crust, then of jam, and so on. Boil two hours and a half.COOKERY RECIPES *34 10 to (Mm Liverpool Pudding lb. breadcrumbs, oz. currants, lb. suet, big tablespoonsful treacle, powder, 2 oz. raw sugar, juice and rind of 1 lemon, | lb. flour, 1 teaspoonful baking 1 saltspoonful nutmeg, 2 eggs, £ teaspoonful salt, a little milk. Method.—Mince the suet finely. Clean cur- rants. Rub crumbs through a sieve. Mix all dry ingredients together. Beat up eggs. Add a little milk to them. Mix well and quickly. Pour into a greased mould. Cover with greased paper. Steam for two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Method.—Rub butter into flour. Add sugar, baking powder, salt, and enough of beaten egg to make it into a soft dough. Mix with a knife and then with the hand. Turn on to a floured board and knead ; roll a quarter of an inch thick. Cut into rounds. Put jam on one piece ; cover with another. Pinch the edges. Roll into a ball. Fry in hot fat, 350° to 380°. Turn on to paper to drain. Cover with sifted sugar. Berlin Pancakes 6 oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs, powder, flavouring and salt. 2 oz. butter, \ teaspoonful bakingSUPPLE ME NEAR Y RECIPES ■35 Rice Cream Beignets 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 eggs, 8 oz. creme de riz, £ oz. ground cinnamon, \ lb. sifted flour, i oz. baking powder, i saltspoonful vanilla, gills milk. Method.—Cream butter. Add creme de riz, sugar and cinnamon. Work about fifteen minutes. Add by degrees the eggs and flour alternately. Flavour with vanilla. Lastly, add milk and baking powder. Put into forcing bag with plain pipe and force it out in portions about the size of a walnut (cutting mixture with a knife). Fry from eight to ten minutes. Lemon Pudding (Baked) Short crust of 6 oz. flour, 3 oz. butter or lard, 1 teaspoonful sugar, \ teaspoonful baking cold water, powder. Mixture 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. sugar, 2 eggs, juice and rind of 2 small 2 oz. of cake or bread- lemons, crumbs, 1 large lemon. Method.—Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Add beaten eggs, grated lemon rind and bread- crumbs, carefully adding lemon-juice and crumbs alternately. Grease a piedish and wet the edges. Line it with short crust, making a double border.COOKER V RECIPES '36 Pour in the mixture. Egg over. Bake three- quarters of an hour in a moderate oven, or until the mixture feels firm. Bachelor’s Pudding 2 oz. breadcrumbs, 2 oz. suet, 2 oz. sugar, ■l teaspoonful baking powder, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. Valencia raisins, i egg, -1 teaspoon fill ground ginger. Method.—Mix the flour, baking powder, ginger and crumbs together. Add suet and sugar. Stone and cut across the raisins. Put into the bowl with the other ingredients. Beat up egg and either three or four tablespoonsful of milk. Stir quickly into the pudding. Have ready a well-greased mould. Sprinkle with brown sugar. Pour in the pudding quickly. Cover with greased paper. Set at once in a pan of boiling water. Steam two hours. Orange Jelly f- oz. gelatine soaked in thin rind of 3 oranges, pint water, \ pint orange-juice and 3 oz. loaf sugar, the juice of 2 lemons. Method.—Put orange rind, sugar, water and gelatine into a lined pan. Simmer ten minutes. Remove all scum as it rises. Put in strained orange and lemon-juice, and when nearly set pour into a wet mould.137 SUPPLEMENTAR V RECIPES Yorkshire Sandwich Cake 1 egg, 1 teaspoonfnl baking its weight in flour, butter, powder, and sugar, ground rice a little milk or water, or rice flour, flavouring. (i£ tablespoonful equals the weight of 1 egg.) Method.—Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Add egg, rice flour, flour and flavouring ; lastly, baking powder. Divide the mixture into two, and place each portion on a well-greased plate and bake in a moderate oven. Bun Cake 2\ lb. flour, f oz. German yeast. \ lb. lard, 2 oz. candied peel, \ nutmeg, 1 dessertspoonful brandy, 6 oz. butter, 8 oz. moist sugar, \ lb. currants, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 eggs. Method.—Rub the fat into flour. Put in the tested yeast. Mix well. Allow to rise two or three hours, then mix in other ingredients. Put into papered tins. Bake two hours in a moderate oven.COOKER 1' RECIPES >33 Carraway Cake 3 eggs, \ lb. castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful baking 6 oz. line flour, powder, teaspoonful carraway 2 oz. butter seeds. (dissolved but not oiled), Method.—Break the eggs into a bowl. Stand in another containing boiling water. Whisk with them the sugar fifteen minutes, or until it becomes thick. Keep the batter while beating at an even temperature by adding boiling water to that in the outer bowl. When the batter is thick, mix in 6 oz. fine flour, the baking powder, butter and carraway seeds. Put into a tin and bake thirty to forty minutes. Lemon Cheese Cakes Some puff or flaky pastry. Curd 6 oz. loaf sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 lemons. Method.—Rasp lemon and sugar. Pound. Place butter in a pan, melt, add sugar and lemon- juice ; dissolve sugar. Add slightly beaten eggs and stir till cooked but not curdled. Pour into basin to cool. Line patty pans with pastry, flake edges, prick bottoms, and place crust of bread in each. Bake. Remove crust. Dry, and while still hot fill with the curd.S UP PL EM ENT A R ]' RECIPES 139 Pastry Sandwiches Some puff pastry, some raspberry jam, some whipped cream. Roll pastry into a thin square sheet. Cut in two long strips. Lay on baking sheet. Mark lightly into finger lengths. Brush with white of egg and sprinkle with castor sugar. Bake in a quick oven till risen and firm. Cool. Cut into finger lengths. Spread one with jam and one with cream. Join together. Sift with icing sugar and serve. Shrewsbury Cakes 6 oz. flour, 1 small egg, 4 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful carraway 3 oz. sugar, seeds. Method.—Beat butter and sugar to a cream, then work in sifted flour and seeds and enough beaten egg to bind. Mix well. Lay aside to firm. Roll out very thinly. Stamp into rounds. Bake on a greased tin in a moderate oven till a pale golden-brown at edges. Shortbread 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. sifted sugar, lb. butter, Method.—Mix flour and sugar together on a board. If the butter is salt, wash it and squeezeCOOKERY RECIPES 140 it dry in the corner of a clean towel. Put the butter on the board along with the dry ingredients and work the flour and sugar into the butter with the hands, kneading it well. After the flour is all worked into the butter, knead the whole a little ; then shape out into a cake. Pinch the edges of the cake. Prick over the top of the shortbread with a fork or skewer. Lay the shortbread on a greased tin, and bake in a slow oven for about three-quarters of an hour, till it is a pale brown and quite firm. N.B.—2 oz. rice-flour can, if liked, be sub- stituted for the same quantity of flour. Perth Soda Cake \ lb. flour, 6 oz. sultanas, i oz. candied orange peel, i oz. butter, ^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda, £ teaspoonful salt, \ lb. rice flour, 6 oz. sugar, 2 oz. lard or dripping, i egg- \ pint sour milk. Method.—Rub the lard and butter into flour and rice. Add sultanas, peel and sugar. Mix soda well into flour. Beat egg thoroughly. Pour into the middle of cake, and add enough milk to make it into a soft dough. Bake one hour and a half.141 SUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES Citron Buns •i- lb. Hour, 1 oz. rice flour, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. sugar, grated rind of -b lemon, 1 oz. chopped almonds, 3 oz. chopped citron, 2 eggs, it teaspoonful baking powder. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour. Add all dry ingredients and mix to a stiff dough with the beaten eggs and a little milk. Bake on greased tin ten minutes. Dropped Scones 1 lb. flour, 2 tablespoonsful sugar, 1 teaspoonful baking soda, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful cream of about f pint butter- tartar, milk. Method.—Mix dry ingredients. Add egg un- beaten and enough buttermilk to make a smooth batter ; beat well. Grease a hot girdle with a bit of suet. Drop on the batter, a spoonful at a time, till the girdle is full. When the scones are brown underneath and covered with bubbles on the top, turn with a knife, and brown on the other side. Buttermilk may be omitted, sweet milk being used instead ; using also double the given quantity of cream of tartar.142 COOKERY RECIPES Girdle Scones i lb. Hour, i small teaspoonful i teaspoonful salt, carbonate of soda, about v pint buttermilk, i small teaspoonful cream of tartar. Method.—Mix all dry ingredients. Add enough buttermilk to make a light dough. Turn out on to a floured board and quickly knead till smooth. Press into a round cake. Divide it crosswise in four. Place scones on a floured and heated girdle. Cook for ten minutes. They should be pressed to a quarter of an inch thick, and will rise to be more than an inch. The scones may be rolled thinner if preferred. They are turned once. As above, double cream of tartar and sweet milk may be used instead of buttermilk. N.B.—If to be kept, it is advisable to rub one or two ounces of fat into the flour before mixing the dry ingredients. Potato Scones i lb. cold potatoes, about £ lb. flour, i oz. butter, a pinch of salt, i or 2 tablespoonsful milk, Method.—Peel and mash the potatoes. Warm the milk and melt the butter in it. Mix the potatoes, milk and butter. Add the salt, and work in as much flour as the paste will take up. Roll out very thinly. Cut in rounds. Place on a hot floured girdle, and cook for about three minutes on each side. Cool in a pile in a cloth.SUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES M3 Gresini Bread i lb. flour, i oz. butter, + oz. yeast, i teaspoonful salt, little lukewarm milk and water to mix (about gill). Method.—Test the yeast with sugar. Make as usual, but mix very stiffly. Allow to rise in a warm place. Make into long strips. Roll into sticks and rings. Bake at once in a moderately hot oven till crisp through and pale golden colour. N.B.—Salt sticks are made similarly. Brush with milk and sprinkle with coarse bay salt. oz. German yeast, i teaspoonful castor sugar. Method.—Cream yeast and sugar. Make butter and milk lukewarm in a pan. Pour on to the creamed yeast. Have flour warm, and make a hole in centre. Pour milk and yeast on to beaten egg. Add to flour. Beat thoroughly. Divide into three and place into warm greased tins, and allow to rise in a warm place one hour. Bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. When ready, brush with melted butter. N.B.—If proper tins cannot be had, allow mixture to rise all the time in the basin ; then again beat. Turn on to floured board. Divide into three. Place on greased oven shelf and bake as above. Yeast Teacakes \ lb. flour, \ oz. butter, i egg. i gill milk,144 COOKERY RECIPES Oatcakes i lb. sifted oatmeal, •§- teaspoonful salt, 6 teaspoonsful melted drip- boiling water to ping or lard, mix. Method.—Mix the melted dripping with the meal. Add the salt and sufficient water to make a pretty soft dough. Knead till very smooth. Press into a round cake half an inch thick, then roll out as thin as required with a ribbed roller. Divide into cakes, place on a hot girdle, and bake till firm ; then take them off, rub them with meal, and toast before the fire till they curl up. This may be done under the grill or in the oven. Mincemeat i lb. beef suet, lb. currants, i lb. Valencia raisins, -J- lb. minced peel, 6 large apples, -f- lb. almonds, rind of i lemon, juice of 2 lemons, f lb. moist sugar, i teaspoonful salt, i teaspoonful ground ginger, i teaspoonful ground cloves, i teaspoonful ground allspice, i grated nutmeg, £ pint brandy, l pint sherry, pint rum. Method.—Chop apples and suet finely. Chop peel and almonds. Stone and chop raisins roughly. Grate lemon rind. Mix everything well. Press into jars. Cover with parchment.INDEX Anchovy Eggs, no Apple Amber, 87 Apple Roll, 133 Apple Tart (German) 132 Apricot Charlotte Russe, 101 Aspic Jelly, 99 Bachelor’s Pudding, 136 Bacon—Boiled, 27 and Eggs, 114 and Tomatoes, 53 Baked Bread Pudding, 51 Eggs, 54 Potatoes, 39 (in skins), 39 Stuffed Onions, 40 Tomatoes, 54 Baking Sheets and Frying Pans, &c. (Steel), 7 Beans and Bacon, 125 Boiled, 41 French, 93 Beef—Boiled Salt, 27 Galantine, 115 Olives, 128 Roast, 24 Sirloin of, 76 Steak Pie, 36 Stewed, 24 Beresford Pudding, 86 Berlin Pancakes, 134 Biscuit Crust, 83 Biscuits—Oatmeal, 46 Blanquette of Veal or Rabbit, 122 Boiled Beans, 41 Cabbage, 41 Carrots, 40 Cauliflower, 42 Eggs, 54 Fowl, 95 Fruit Pudding, 34 Ham, 27 Marrow, 41 Mutton, 27 Onions, 40 Potatoes, 38 Rabbit, 31 Rice, no Salmon, 17 and 68 Salt Beef, Pork, or Bacon, 2 7 Salt Fish, 18 Sheep’s Head, 28 Suet Pudding, 33 Turnips (Mashed), 39 White Fish, 17 Bone Stock, 12 Brass and Copper, 5 Brawn, 123 Bread—Brown, 42 Dinner Rolls, 104 French, 103 Gresini, 143 White, 42 and Butter Pudding, 50 L146 INDEX Bread Pudding (Baked), 51 (Scrap) Pudding, 48 Breast of Mutton—Rolled Stuffed, 25 Broth, Mutton, 13 Bun Cake, 137 Buns (see Cakes) Cabbage, Boiled, 41 Cabinet Pudding, 131 Cafe Noir, 113 Cakes and Buns : Bun Cake, 137 Carraway Cake, 138 Chocolate Cake, 108 Citron Buns, 141 Currant Cake (Plain), 44 Fruit Cake, 108 Gingerbread, 45 Jam Sandwich, 106 Lemon Cheese Cakes, 138 London Buns, 46 Louise Cakes, 106 Mocha Cake, 106 Pastry Sandwiches, 139 Perth Soda Cake, 140 Pound Cake, 107 Rice Cake, 107 Rock Cakes, 45 Seed Cake (Plain), 45 Shortbread, 139 Shrewsbury Cakes, 139 Sponge Cake, 105 Yorkshire Sandwich Cake, 137 Calf’s Head, 75 Caramel Custards, 86 Carraway Cake, 138 Carrots, Boiled, 40 Cauliflower, 42 au Gratin, 92 in Batter, 126 Celeriac, 91 Celery, Stewed, 92 Charlotte Russe, 100, 101 Cheese Aigrettes, 113 Cheese, Macaroni, 51 Pudding, 52 Cheese and Rice, 52 Straws, hi China, Earthenware, Enamel- led Ware, 6 Chocolate Cake, 108 Icing, 108 | Chop, Grilled, 29 Christmas Pudding, 56 Citron Buns, 141 Clean Flues, to, 1 Iron Saucepans, to, 3 Spoons, to, 4 Kitchen Range, to, 2 Knives, to, 5 Steel Forks, to, 4 a Stone Hearth, to, 2 White Metal, to, 4 Coburg Pudding, 88 Cocoa, 114 Cod Steaks, Fried, 16 Coffee (Cafe Noir), 113 Icing, 107 Compote of Fruit, 103 Copper and Brass, 5 Cornflour Mould, 47 C6telettes a la Dejeuner, 120 Croquettes, 79 Potato, 92 Rice, 90 Cup Puddings, 90 Currant Cake, Plain, 44 Curried Lentils, 125 Curried Veal, 109 Curry of Cold Meat, 109 Dinner Rolls, 104 Dropped Scones, 141 Duck, Roast, 95 Durham Cutlets, 79 Earthenware, Enamelled Ware and China, 6 Eggs : Anchovy, no in Aspic (Egg Salad), 71 Baked, 54 Boiled, 54 Egg Cutlets, 127INDEX 147 Eggs (continued) Fried, 54 Hard-boiled, 54 Scalloped, 126 Scotch, 55 Scrambled, 55 Filleting of Fish, 15 Fillets a la Maitre d’Hotel, 69 of Fish, Stuffed, 68 Plaice, Fried, 16 Fish : Cod Steaks, Fried, 16 Fillets a la Maitre d’Hotel, 69 Fillets of Plaice, Fried, 16 Grilled Herring, 19 Haddock, Baked Stuffed, 19 Herring, Baked Stuffed, 20 Herring, Potted, 118 Herring, Soused, 18 Huitres au Lit, 119 Lobster au Gratin, 117 Mackerel, to boil, 17 Soused, 18 Plaice, Baked Stuffed, 20 Fried Fillets of, 16 Potted Herrings, 118 Salmon, Boiled, 17, 68 Mould, 117 Sardine Pyramids, no Sole a la Colbert, 68 Soused Mackerel or Her- ring, 18 Timbales of Haddock a la Genoise, 118 Whitebait, 67 Whiting, Fried, 15 Cleaning, Skinning, and Filleting of, 15 au Gratin, Sole, 69 to Boil Salt, 18 Boiled White, 17 Cakes, 21 Filleting of, 15 Fillets of. Stuffed, 68 Fish (continued) Fried in Batter, 70 Grilled, 19 Mould, 21 Pastry, 70 Pie, 20 Pudding, 21 Salt, to boil, 18 Scalloped, 71 Stewed in Milk, 18 White, Boiled, 17 Flaky Pastry, 3 7 Flues, to clean, 1 Forcemeat, 76 Forks, to Clean Steel, 4 Fowl, Boiled, 95 Roast, 94 French Beans, 93 Bread, 103 Fricassee of Chicken, 78 Fried Cod Steaks, 16 Eggs, 54 Fillets of Plaice, 16 Potatoes, Whole, 38 Sweetbread, 78 Whiting, 15 Fritters, Fruit, 89 Fruit Cake, 108 Fruit Pudding, Boiled, 34 Salad, 102 Tart, 34 Galantine, Beef, 115 Galvanised Iron, 7 Gas Stove, 3 Gateau de Veau, 123 German Potatoes, 129 Gingerbread, 45 Girdle Scones, 142 Gooseberry Fool, 102 Green Vegetables, 41 Gresini Bread, 143 Grilled Chop, 29 Fish, 19 Herring, 19 Kidneys, 114 * Ground Rice Shape, 48 [ Grouse, Roast, 96148 INDEX Haddock, Baked Stuffed, 19 Ham, Boiled, 27 Pickled, 124 Toast, 127 Hard-boiled Eggs, 54 Haricot Mutton, 73 Hash, 31 Heart, Roast, 26 Herrings, Baked Stuffed, 20 Potted, 118 Soused, 18 Home-made Polish, 6 Hot Pot, 22 Huitres au Lit, 119 Icing, Chocolate, 108 Coffee and Pink, 107 Irish Stew, 22 Iron, Galvanised, 7 Saucepans, to clean, 3 Spoons, to clean, 4 Jam Roley, 33 Sandwich, 106 Tart, Open, 35 Jelly, Aspic, 99 Lemon, 99 Orange, 136 Jugged Hare, 97, 122 Kedgeree, 115 Kidneys, Grilled, 114 Kitchen Range, 1 to clean, 2 Knives, to clean, 5 Lamb, Forequarter of, 76 Layer Pudding, 133 Leeks, 40 Lemon Cheese Cakes, 138 Cream, 103 Pie, 84 Pudding, Baked, 135 Rice, 88 Sponge, 132 Lentils, Curried, 125 Liver and Bacon, 28 Liverpool Pudding, 134 Lobster Aspic, 72 au Gratin, 117 | London Buns, 46 1 Louise Cakes, 106 Macaroni a la Milanese, 112 a la Tomate, 111 Cheese, 51 Mackerel, to boil, 17 Soused, 18 Madeira Pudding, 130 Marmalade Pudding, 49 Marrow, Boiled, 41 Mashed Potatoes, 39 I Meat Cakes, 30 Pasty, 29 Patties, Cold, 38, 81 Milk Puddings, 46 Mince, 30 j Mincemeat, 55, 144 i Mock Game, 121 Mutton, Boiled, 27 Broth, 13 Cutlets, 77 and Peas, Stewed, 22 Roast Saddle of, 76 Rolled Stuffed Breast of, 25 Stuffed and Rolled, 76 Oatcakes, 144 Oatmeal Biscuits, 46 Oil Stoves, 3 Omelet, Savoury, 112 Sweet, 89 Onions, Baked Stuffed, 40 Boiled, 40 Pancakes, 56 Parsley, to Fry, 16 Parsnips, 40 Paste, Recipe for Scrubbing, 8 Pastry, Flaky, 37 and 80 Sandwiches, 139 Short, 83 Treacle, 35 Patties, Cold Meat, 38, Si149 INDEX Perth Soda Cake, 140 Petits Choux, 84 Pickle for One Ham, 124 Hams, 124 Meat, &c., 124 Pig’s Head, 124 Tongues, 124 Pies, Raised, 82 Pig’s Head, Pickled, 124 Plaice, Baked Stuffed, 20 Fried Fillets of, 16 Polish, Home-made, 6 to, 6 Pork, Boiled, 27 Pies, 82 Roast, 26 Potatoes, Baked, 39 Baked in Skins, 39 Boiled, 38 Chips, 93 Croquettes, 92 Fried Whole, 38 German, 129 Mashed, 39 Scones, 142 Straws, 93 Surprises, 128 Potted Herrings, 118 Pound Cake, 107 Puddings, Sweet.—See ' Sweets.’ Other Puddings : Cheese Pudding, 52 Fish Pudding, 21 Toad-in-the-Hole, 57 Yorkshire Pudding, 56 Queen of Puddings, 50 Rabbit, Boiled, 31 Roast, 32 Stewed, 32 Raised Pies, 82 Range, the Kitchen, 1 Remove Stains, to; 5 from wood, 7 Rice, Boiled, no Cake, 107 Rice and Cheese, 52 Cream Beignets, 135 Milk, 48 Pudding, 46, 47 (Ground) Shape, 48 Rissoles, 79 a la Pompadour, 120 Roast Beef, 24 Duck, 95 Fowl, 94 Grouse, 96 Heart, 26 Pork, 26 Rabbit, 32 Saddle of Mutton, 75 Rock Cakes, 45 Rolled Stuffed Breast of Mutton, 25 Rules for Scrubbing, 8 Saddle of Mutton, Roast, 75 Sage and Onion Stuffing, 26 Sago Cream, 131 and Rhubarb Mould, 130 Salads: Egg (Eggs in Aspic), 71 Fruit, 102 Lobster Aspic, 72 Mayonnaise, 72 Summer, 52 Tomato, 71 White Fish, 72 Winter, 53 Sally Lunns, 104 Salmis of Pheasant, 119 Salmon, Boiled, 17, 68 Mould, 117 Salt Beef, Boiled, 27 Fish, to Boil, 18 Sardine Pyramids, no Saucepans, to Clean Iron, 3 Sauces: Anchovy, 10 Apple, n Bechamel, 58 Brown, 10, 59 Caper, 10INDEX 15° Sauces (continued) Custard, xi, 61, 130 Dutch, 59 Egg (German), 61 Espanole, 60 German Egg, 61 Hollandaise, 59 Jam, xi Lobster, 59 Mayonnaise, 61 Mint, 10 Orange, 86 Parsley, 9 Piquante, 60 Tartar, 61 Tomato, 60 Treacle, 11 Veloute, 58 White, 9 Sausage Rolls, 37, 81 Sausages on Toast, 29 Savoury Omelet, 1x2 Scalloped Eggs, 126 Fish, 71 Scones, Brown, 44 Currant, 44 Dropped, 141 Girdle, 142 Potato, 142 White, 43 Scotch Eggs, 55 Scrambled Eggs, 55 Scrubbing, Rules for, 8 Paste, Recipe for, 8 Sea Pie, 23 Seed Cake, Plain, 45 Semolina Pudding, 47 Slabs, 112 Sheep’s Head, Boiled, 28 Shepherd’s Pie, 29 Shortbread, 139 Short Crust, 34 Shrewsbury Cakes, 139 Sink, The, 7 Sirloin of Beef, 76 Sole a la Colbert, 68 Soups : Bisque, 63 Soups (continued) Brown Stock, 62 Brown Vegetable, 14 Brussels Sprouts Puree, 67 Celery Soup, 67 Clear, 98 Crecy, 116 Fish Stock, 63 French, 116 Gravy, 63 Green Pea Puree, 66 Hare (Imitation), 65 Haricot Bean, 14 Lentil, 13 Melt, 12 Mulligatawny, 64 Ox-tail,* Thick, 64 Pea Soup, 14 Potato, 14 Tomato Puree, 66 Tomato and Rice, 15 Vegetable (Brown), 14 (White), 15 White Stock, 62 Soused Mackerel or Herring, 18 Spanish Puffs, 84 Spinach, 91 Sponge Cake, 105 Pudding, 90 Spoons, to Clean Iron, 4 Stains, to remove, 5 from wood, 7 Steak, Stewed, 73 Steel Baking Sheets and Fry- ing Pans, &c., 7 Forks, to Clean, 4 Stew, Irish, 22 Stewed Beef, 24 Celery, 92 Mutton and Peas, 22 Ox Kidney and Rice, 74 Rabbit, 32 Steak, 73 Tripe, 23 Veal and Rice, 74 Stock, Bone, 12 Stone Hearth, to Clean a, 2INDEX >5 Stove, Gas, 3 Stoves, Oil, 3 Stuffed and Rolled Mutton, 76 Stuffing, Sage and Onion, 26 Veal, 32 Suet Pudding, Boiled, 33 Sweetbread, Fried, 78 Sweets : Apple Amber, 87 Apple Roll, 133 Apple Tart, German, 132 Apricot Charlotte Russe, 101 Bachelor’s Pudding, 136 Baked Bread Pudding, 51 Beresford Pudding, 86 Berlin Pancakes, 134 Boiled Fruit Pudding, 34 Bread-and-ButterPudding, 50 Bread Pudding (Baked), 51 Cabinet Pudding, 131 Caramel Custards, 86 Charlotte Russe, 100, 101 Christmas Pudding, 56 Coburg Pudding, 88 Comp6te of Fruit, 103 Cornflour Mould, 47 Cup Puddings, 90 Fruit Fritters, 89 Fruit Pudding (Boiled), 34 Salad, 102 Tart, 34 German Apple Tart, 132 Gooseberry Fool, 102 Ground Rice Shape, 48 Jam Roley, 33 Jam Tart (Open), 35 Layer Pudding, 134 Lemon Cream, 103 Jelly, 99 Pie, 84 Pudding (Baked), 135 Rice, 88 Sponge, 132 Madeira Pudding, 130 Marmalade Pudding, 49 Sweets (continued) Mincemeat, 56 ». J Orange Jelly, 136 Pancakes, 56 Berlin, 134 Pastry Sandwiches, 139 Petits C-houx, 84 Queen of Puddings, 50 Rice Cream Beignets, 135 Croquettes, 90 Milk, 48 Pudding, 46, 47 Sago Cream, 131 Sago and Rhubarb Mould, 130 Scrap Bread Pudding, 48 Semolina Pudding, 47 Spanish Puffs, 84 Sponge Pudding, 90 Suet Pudding (Boiled), 33 Sweet Omelet, 89 Swiss Roll, 91 Tartlets, 36 Treacle Pastry, 35 Pudding, 49 Trifle, Plain, 101 Vanilla Cream, 100 Soufflee, 85 Viennoise Pudding, 85 Tart, Fruit, 34 Open Jam, 35 Tartlets, Small, 35 Tea, 113 Tea Cakes, Yeast, 143 Yorkshire, 43 Timbales of Haddock a la Genoise, 118 Tins, 4 Toad-in-the-Hole, 5 7 Tomatoes, Baked, 54 and Bacon, 53 Tongues, Pickled, 124 Treacle Pastry, 35 Pudding, 49 Trifle, Plain, iox Tripe, Stewed, 23INDEX 152 Turnip Pudding a la Russe, 126 Turnips, Boiled (Mashed), 39 Vanilla Souffl6e, 85 Veal Cutlets, 77 Stuffing, 32 and Ham Pie, 80 Vegetable Marrow Goose, 129 Vegetables, Green, 41 Viennoise Pudding, 85 Whitebait, 67 White Bread, 42 Fish, Boiled, 17 Metal, to Clean, 4 Whiting, Fried, 15 Wood, 7 Yeast, 42 Tea Cakes, 143 Yorkshire Pudding, 56 Sandwich Cake, 137 Tea Cakes, 43 PRINTED BY Sl’OTTlSWOODE AND CO. I.TD., LONDON COLCHESTER AND ETON(I O^JfLA-O'^L LtJLAX • Q-lb AX rty £ £ $ -Mt aLjJ 1 / <5" /<.££. -2, <t' 'V-fi- (J Lp-nJX. L* lya.it,u 2 & l <yf a -ta dci* c {jay &V"- ^ " ? *' ^ '^ALAiU^t '^<<~X_0L Q 5* -W «.J; ^ £*«J& v^y £l c; IffXLfieJLc /• j 1^ 'W ^ : U- kw^ ;i -j*— IF - , i UL^f -Ajc \ i.t-ito j ^-iJc^C. X. Ut t>< ( rf-C </xoir w6, ( r ^ I Ur a (Xc- J <& « « f ,, 7w --•*•■' *' A\ <- . <4 ~V'uL&Jjjt cl (hoiM £ Lis Q\^os •k ^U' t <S jL ' ( Cyf^jco^ tAsr^J, *2^ f /\yu^a^ ' 'I j~< x hJLAj-uJ) wu» 'vuUl^S, t. {a. jotn tJ H Li^ A uc tjr w ' ISmM •/"' *" ! '; . \ L. % , " ' tV keiAj. / i■ ■ v> •< e^M- ^ 'I: JA > c- f U ak '-V . 6 Chyt l iKjllK . •* I du^a^*-ts y>' jotH+isU^.. 2. wOlMj- » ;.•&• w / -MsJLk’-t r fW% Jr*#3?: -m<x£ ^VaJ2 * aw mxx ««•* rvulA \t±b,$c^o. Atpu^i ■ - GAsh&J) & a tz~ JseJmJTK OJLSI a f>“*?*2 <r* ^r&*Z“Jr££* tote ? % '&*£ U 4 '; * ^ t . l<yf0 yji a-tu k l^t > ( hx *1*^*•/ r •* 4c .