STANDARD COOKERY BOOKS. MRS. BEETON'S HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 7s. 6d. MRS. BEETON'S FAMILY COOKERY BOOK. 5s. MRS. BEETON'S EVERY-DAY COOKERY. 3s. 6(Z. MRS. BEETON'S ALL ABOUT COOKERY. 2s. 6cl. MRS. BEETON'S COOKERY BOOK. Is. MRS. BEETON'S ENGLISHWOMAN'S COOKERY. 6d. MRS. BEETON'S PENNY COOKERY BOOK. Id. THE ART OF PASTRY MAKING. 2s. 6d. TINNED FOODS: HOW TO USE THEM. 2s. 6d. LOUISA E. SMITH'S BONNES BOUCHES. Is. 6d. MARY HOOPER'S GOOD PLAIN COOKERY. Is. EDITH A. BARNETT'S COOKERY INSTRUCTOR. Is. London : WARD. LOOK & BOWDEN, Ltd.THE PROFESSION OF COOKERYDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b2039052xTHE PROFESSION OF COOKERY Jfrom a ^xtm^ ^oxni of fcriefo. IV/TH SOME ECONOMICAL PRACTICES PECULIAR TO THE NATION. BY LUCY H. YATES, LECTURER TO THE INTERNATIONAL HORTICULTURAL EXHIBITION COMMITTEE. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, LIMITED, LONDON: WARWICK HOUSE, SALISBURY SQUARE, E.G. NEW YORK AND MELBOURNE. 1894 \,All rights reserved.']Misif73 WELLCOME iNSTITUTE Coll. weff^/^Omec Call No. / / / ! 1vii CONTENTS. CHAPTER PAGE I. Economy as the Soul of Cookery , 1 II. Soups and Purees .... 14 III. Vegetables and Vegetable Dishes 28 IV. Salads. . . , . , ,45 V. Sauces. ...... 59 VI. The ''Daubiere," or ''Braisiere" . 75 VII. Frying and " Saute "-ing. . 82 VIII. Some Gtateaux and Compotes . 89 IX. ^'Maigre" Dishes .... 106 X. Fricassees and Rechauffees . . 125 XI. Some Little-used Vegetables. . 132viii CONTENTS. CHAPTER PAGE XII. Leeks and Onions. . . , 140 XIII. Tomatoes 146 XIV. Mushrooms ... 153 XV. Fruits en Salades " and Glaces 160 XVI. Entrees and Entremets . . 167 XVII. The Dejeuner 1 la Fourchette . 178 XVIII. Menus for Small Dinners . . 185 XIX. Choice Supper Dishes . . . 193 XX. Addendum. Some strictly French Eecipes not included in former chapters 200THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY. INTRODUCTORY. COOKERY has long been thouglit to be an art, and one also for wbicli a special gift is required, if any great degree of perfection therein is to be attained. This is perfectly true, and a thoroughly good cook will be no mean artist in every sense of the word. But very few people, even among those who are daily employed in cooking, will give the same amount of patience and diligence to attain the distinction of meriting the term " artist in this most important of professions as they would give to gain a knowledge of music or painting, or to learn a language. And yet the preparation and serving of the food we eat, in a right or a wrong manner^ isX THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY. tlie very foundation of our home life; not only does tlie health of the inmates greatly depend upon the cook^ but their tempers and spirits also. It is just in this part of the household where what are commonly called brains tell to most advantage^ and where^ alas^ they are most seldom thought to be needed. Upon method^ skilly and economy in the kitchen depend so much the well-being of the household^ and these can rarely be found where the kitchen is under the rule of a kitchen maid^ or even of the modern good plain cook/^ This department is as well worthy of the best considerations of every true ladij as any of the many higher branches which claim her atten- tion in the world to-day. The training—even the classical training— which she receives at school need never unfits but rather make her the more apt a pupil when she gives the .same amount of attention to learn this profession which she gave to mathematics. Brains tell everywhere, farfAcularly in theTHE PROFESSION OF COOKERY, xi kitchen. If our girls and young -women would study cookery as they study French and German, starting from the A, 0, and progressing upwards, step by step, studying it in all its branches until they might be said to have graduated/^ there would then be hope that our kitchens might become as attractive to visit as the studio or the music room. The knowledge of how to save labour, and economise not only time, but strength—which is the real test of the practical from the theo- retical—in this profession as in all others, is only acquired by the earnest student. If the natural taste for this be dull^ the more need to lay to it strength of will—resolution born of a just judgment of the importance of the knowledge she would acquire. On the other hand, however good her inten- tions may be, without this knowledge a great deal of toil will be needlessly expended; the result mortification, and the heavy, wearing sense of inferiority that puts the novice so soon out of heart.THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY. In treating cookery as a profession there will be found ample scope for various degrees of talent; all who enter for it should be willing to pay the premium and give the necessary time to learn it thoroughly. As the very lowliest occupation is dignified by the manner in which it is performed, so nothing is menial or beneath the attention of her who would excel or assist others to excel in this department of the world's work, essentially the woman's province, where she reigns and rules by right of special fitness.THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY. CHAPTER I. JEconomi? as the Soul of Coofter^, RUE economy is the soul of good cookery. JL There is, perhaps, no word so little under- stood as this word economy. It is too often considered to mean parsimony, meanness, or stin- giness. It will invariably be found the better the cook the more economy will be practised. What a so-called good plain cook will throw away or consign to the dog-kennel, an ingenious French artiste will make into an entree or an entremet of the most tempting kind. The French are a nation of cooks, and they cannot afford . to dine without soup; yet in England, the most frequent excuse given for P.C. B2 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. the absence of tlie soup is the cost as well as the trouble of preparing it. Sometimes it is urged that We think soup disagrees with us/^ or My husband can't take soup"': and yet no Frenchman, whatever his status in life, would think his meal complete without his potage/' Is there any reason to suppose his digestive organs are constructed on a different plan to his brother Englishman's ? The real reason—when soup is found to dis- agree—may generally be traced to its over* strength. It is not intended to furnish solid nutriment, but to supply a want felt by most people for something warm and savoury to begin the meal Avith, and it will also be found to greatly lessen the thirst for drink after- Vy^ards, hence effecting a saving in the wine cupboard. Among the poor, a simple nourishing vege- table soup would be found of great value, largely dispensing with the, at present, almost inevitable jug of beor, to which recourse is had so frequently to ''Svash down" or make up for a dinner often far from appetising. The saving, also, in the consumption of meat when soup takes the precedence, is no small argument in its favour.ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY, 3 Take^ for example^ tlie ordinary mid-day meal of tlie Frencli ouvrier/^ The soup pot has been put on tlie stove at an early hour; it contains carrots, turnips, potatoes, peas, hari- cots, leeks, etc., with a bouquet'^ (a variety of herbs) and sorrel in abundance; the only thing of the nature of meat is a small piece of salted pork, and this, with plenty of water, is left to boil gently until required, often for several hours. The pork is almost dissolved by this time ; if not, it is cut very small, and returned to the pot, the contents of which go through the passoir," or colander. It is well seasoned, and is then ready to pour into plates ; sub- stantial, satisfying, and with a mighty hunch of bread, this forms the staple of his meal. If he be well off, a piece of meat and a salad may follow this ; but among the poor, a little fruit is thought quite sufficient. On Sundays, high days, and festivals, he will partake of bouillon —a small piece of beef from the leg, boiled with the vegetables, but left clear this time, and the vegetables served on a separate dish—the meat served after- wards. Of course, in different parts of the country4 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. this simple menu may vary somewhat^ but in southern France, where, if anywhere, economy is to be found in perfection, it rarely consists of anything more. Among the peasants of the Vosges mountains it is still more simple, their diet, year in, year out, being mainly made up of potatoes, onions, and bread; yet they are a hardy a sinewy race. The Swiss peasantry also greatly resemble their French neighbours in their diet, with the exception that they eat rather more meat—the colder climate naturally calls for it; but true thrift, economy in small things, is characteristic of both nations. All nations may learn from one another; as a rule, English people have much to learn in the art of thrifty cookery. They have not the faculty possessed by their neighbours across the silver streak, of making a delightful some- thiug out of the despised remains, too often, alas ! cast away as worthless. The thrifty bourgeoise, trotting along in the early morning with her market basket, would be horrified to see the English butchers' shops with their piles of stale scraps and trimmings all thrown to one side, just beginning to go bad, and sending out an odour which makes theECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 5 butcher's stall a trial to visit; the fat portions and suet all mixed up together, while the prime joints are being lavishly cut off. One of the great French chefs'' has said that English meat could not be surpassed; when good^ it needed no sauce with it^ being of a richer quality itself. That is true^ but only when one can purchase of the best. Take a butcher's shop in a provincial French town : your first thought on entering would be how very little there is to buy/' and you see all there is too—each piece set out on a separate hook^ the well scrubbed tables and counters ; while as to fat (!) there is scarcely a morsel to be had. Every part of the different animals has its own special destiny to fulfil^ no portion is of greater honour than another. Madame's eye is ever on the watch for the morsels for her ragout/' and the march and de f rites " has been beforehand with them all^ collecting the suet for his frying-pan. Then^ again, amongst the vegetables : Eng- lish vegetables are not inferior in quality, yet they lack the freshness and the crispness—also the cleanliness—which makes this part of the market so attractive to visit in French towns :6 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. neither is the supply anything like what it ought to be. Perhaps the Small Holdings Act may cause a change for the better in this respect. In the present day^ when the prices of pro- visions have so much increased^ and still show an upward tendency, it is very needful for every family throughout the country to do all in their power to lessen the consumption of meat^ thereby rendering it cheaper to those possessed of less wealth than themselves. It is a great mistake to depend too much upon meat. Where bones are thrown away, and fresh meat is bought for soup making, it is certain that much nutritive matter is absolutely wasted^ w^hich under better management might be turned to good account. Of the many delicious and even charming dishes composed of vegetables_, few, indeed, are much known in English households ; yet their medicinal value is great, while they satisfy the appetite_, and save the pocket at the same time. A dainty plat de legumes,^^ served either before or with the joint of meat, thereby acting as a damper to the appetite, would be found to be true economy, especially in houses wdiereECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY, 7 healthy children call to be fed. The variety— ever capable of being extended—of these dishes call for chapters to themselves. With regard to economy in cookery, it will have been seen, therefore^, that it consists not so much in living plainly, but rather in so managing and arranging the various dishes which compose the meal, that one shall spare the other—by the use of simple means, lessen- ing the consumption of the more expensive dish or joint. , For the average housekeeper to do this easily and effectively, she must bear in mind at least two points: first, to keep herself an conrant of the commodities which are in season; the time when any article in the market is most plentiful and cheap will generally be found to be the time when it is most wholesome for food. Early or forced varieties are rarely de- sirable for ordinary food, however tempting they may appear, and they are but seldom bought by the truly thrifty housekeeper. Throughout the winter months higher prices are demanded for several kinds of food, but the prudent and wise will forestall the market in this respect, and lay in their stock while they are at the cheapest.8 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY, There are ways and means of storing most vegetables and fruits, even in households where keeping room is limited; the main principle to be observed in storing perishable articles, is to exclude the air from tliem. Another point to bear in mind, is to have the right quantity only, so far as can be judged, when providing for any particular dish. It is the bits left over which run away with the money. In the South it is sometimes laughable to see how, when there happens to be a small portion left over, what skill is displayed in so turning it to account that it reappears under a fresh disguise, and forms a sensible addition to the next repast; but, as a rule, it takes the patience and skill of a genuine Frenchwoman to accom- plish this feat. One great reason of the economy of French methods of cooking is to be found in the utensils employed by them, and not a little is due to the different stoves. Of the latter there is a great variety. The bourgeoise Parisienne has her char- coal stove, with its white tiles and the miniature baker's oven built in the wall; her roaster is quite a separate affair, resembling what is knownECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY, 9 in England as a ^^Dutcli oven/' but for all her only fuel is wood coal —cliarbon de bois/' By the way^ these charcoal stoves are so easy to set up^ and so useful for many purposes, that it is a marvel they are so little known in England. Built of brick, either in a recess or close to a kitchen wall; for neatness, the front and sides are covered with tiles, and the edges bound with iron. An opening a few inches square, with a grating above it, holds the char- coal, which lights rapidly and gives no smoke. When not in use, the grating can be covered with a loose tile, and the flat top will serve as an extra table. During the course of a dinner it will render astonishing service for sauces, side dishes, etc. In most French kitchens one of these fur- naces is to be found, generally fitted with two or three gratings, and the bourgeoise will prefer to use it for her soup pot, rather than trust the latter to the more variable heat of her cuisiniere.'^ The true French cuisiniere, or range, is very different, and in many respects much superior to, as well as far simpler than, its English com- peer.10 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY, With, its briglitly polished table-like top and light ornamentation^ it is an ornament to any room^ and the consumption of fuel is so little— the heat being made to reach each part before it passes up the cbimney—that it is wonderful such a clever inventive race as the English have yet so much to learn in the art of stove building. To see their ranges_, so heavily clamped and barred; one might think the food cooking there- in was expected to take to itself wings and fly away. Doubtless the labour attendant upon using these ranges is one reason why cooking is found to be such heavy work in middle-class households. Nearly all French cooking vessels are made either of glazed earthenware or enamelled iron. In great houses the housekeeper will proudly show her extensive batterie de cuisine of immaculately shining copper; but these would be seldom used. Nothing is found to surpass the ^Herrine or earthen cooking vessels ; they are long in reaching the boiling pointy but they will retain the heat; and keep a more equable temperature longer than any other kind ; and this sIoav cook-ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY, ii ing is an essential in most of tlieir methods of cookery, particularly in soup making. The favourite form for the pot-au-feu is a very deep one with aflat bottom, not very wide, and the sides sloping upwards to a slightly narrower opening at the top with a well-fitting lid. This makes the perfection of bouillon. Where more rapid cooking is desirable, as in boiling of vegetables or sauces, nothing is found to equal enamelled iron, not easily burnt at the bottom, and quite easy to keep clean if only the cook Avill take the precaution of filling up the vessel with water immediately it is done with. As the enamel retains the heat longer than plain iron, whatever remains on the surface hardens very quickly, making it a difiicult matter to get off again once it is allowed to become dry. Where the enamel has become discoloured or stained, it may be made white again by boiling a little quicklime in the water. Sand and powdered pumice-stone are ex- cellent aids in cleaning saucepans, also earthen- ware vessels of all kinds. A French housewife has her regular cleaning day for all her kitchen utensils, which is as faithfully observed as her washing day. Every article which admits of being polished is taken\2 ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY, down and literally scrubbed with sand and strong soda water till it shines again; a final rinse in hot water^ and a wipe with a clean towel before it is restored to its place. All tinware^ iron, copper, or brass utensils are kept in excellent condition by this means; one or two hours^ steady labour will suffice. French country people throughout the land, and even the townspeople in the southern towns, reckon to keep at least one pig; and this most useful animal is turned to good account. If he is not " the gintleman that pays the rint,^^ he at least does a very large share to- wards maintaining the family. Killed in the autumn, by pickling, drying, and various other methods of curing, his flesh provides meat for all the winter at least, and has the advantage of being always at hand should an emergency arise in the shape of an unexpected visitor. There are professional pig slayers and curers, whose sole business it is to do everything that is required in regard to the animal. They make the strings of sausages ready for smoking, the hams for curing, the black puddings,^^ the pates,the f romages de pore ; prepare the pieces for the pickling tub, and, in fact,ECONOMY AS THE SOUL OF COOKERY. 13 undertake all tlie trouble and responsibility connected with the occasion. Then is the grand opportunity of the year for the good ^^meiiagereto show her kind heart. There is the generous portion for the ^^cure^^ or the pasteur/^ according as her faith dic- tates ; the gift to be bestowed on a less fortunate friend or neighbour; and the poor man at the gate will not be overlooked. With her pig safely disposed of, another growing up in the pen, her vegetables well stored and housed, her fruits preserved, and her dame Jeanne of oil in the cellar, the bonne bourgeoise is proof against invasion, in what- ever form it may come. In this simple, homely fashion of living, an unexpected guest is ever a welcome addition to the family table.CHAPTER II. Soups an£) purees, IN starting on tlie subject o£ soups in general^ it will be well to classify tliem under three divisions: Clear^ thickened^ and purees/^ or vegetable soups. The distinction between thickened soup and a puree^ lies in the fact of the former owing its consistency to the introduction of some artificial substance^ such as rice^ tapioca^ flour^ etc., while the puree is made by carefully pressing all the ingredients throngh a ^^tamis/^ or wire sieve. Pea soup is really puree of peas^ tomato soup puree of tomatoes, etc. When rice, vermicelli, or macaroni are added to a clear soup or stock, they should have been previously boiled in water, otherwise they will be apt to give a cloudy appearance to the soup. Clear soup may be simply bouillon,'^ or broth, from beef, mutton, or veal, or it may beSOUPS AND PUREES. 15 stock made from bones^ or^ again_, tlie stock from skill of beef or veak Tke same principle of cooking applies to eack and all—to bring it very slowly to boiling pointy and never to let it boil kard. Many Frenck cooks put tke meat intended for bouillon on tke stove in nearly cold water^ even wken it is intended to be eaten afterwards ; but wkere it is deemed preferable to keep a little more flavour in tke meat^ it skould wait until tke water nearly boils^ tken be plunged into tke pot^ and quickly come to boiling point again, after wliick it skould be drawn aside from tke fire, tke vegetables added (eitker wkole or merely split in two), tke little bunck of kerbs securely tied, tken allowed to boil very gently for two or tkree kours. It is not customary to serve any vegetables in tke tureen witk true Frenck bouillon—tkey are placed on a disk, and kanded round, or reserved to be eaten witk tke meat. Wken making a brotk from veal, it may be treated in tke same way, only as veal takes a less time to cook, and soon becomes soft, it is better to remove it wken sufficiently done, and make a different disk alfcogetker of tke meat. Wken using sliin of beef or veal, it would bei6 SOUPS AND PUR&ES. wasteful to treat it as the other parts of boiling meat^ as it contains really more nutritious matter^ whicli takes a much longer time to be extracted. It should be placed in a deep brown jar^ and be relegated to the far corner of the oven, and left to cook for several hours; then carefully pour away all the liquor from it into a clean vessel, and put in a cold place. When vegetables are required to be added to this, they should be boiled apart, never in this stock, which merely requires warming up as it is needed. The meat, if carefully separated from all skin and gristle, liberally seasoned, and pounded in a mortar, makes very presentable potted meat^ quite good enough for every-day family use. Clear soup is also made from bones, cooked or uncooked, odds and ends of meat, and the carcases of poultry. Always bear in mind that it is sioc'ky and to be treated as such. No scraps or bones need ever be wasted. Chop all bones with a hatchet into very small pieces. All dry corners and trimmings of meat are valuable also, particularly if they are hrown. In soup made of this stock, vegetables may be added in a variety of ways. Cut very small indeed, and frizzled in a little clear fat till they17 SOUPS AND PUREES. are just brown^ then it is known as Julienne soup ; or cut small^ and plain boiled, then it is consomme (either with or without the addition of rice and a little brown gravy) ; or the carrots may be grated^ the remaining vegetables cut into dice. It is to this kind of stock, also_, that macaroni and vermicelli are added, and the same stock forms the foundation of mulligatawny and the richer kinds of soup, which properly come under the division of thickened soups. If a thickened soup is still required clear, it may be kept so by using tapioca or potato-flour as the thickening medium. If tapioca be added early enough, it will completely dissolve and become perfectly smooth; sago is a similar agent, but it never quite loses its grain^ neither is it quite so clear. If ever ordinary flour be used, it will be found a great improvement to first bake it in the oven. There are many thickening agents sold by grocers, but few of them are to be trusted; it is better to compound one's own, although it may take more time to do it. Bread is an ingredient very largely used both in France and Switzerland in soup making; either put in the pot with the vegetables, andi8 SOUPS AND PUREES. allowed to dissolve^ or cut into dice and deli- cately browned in butter^ then put in the tureen for the soup to be poured upon it^ it forms a substantial addition to^ and greatly increases the nourishing properties of the potage/^ Now we come to consider the purees—true vegetable soaps. The first desideratum in the making of a successful puree is patience on the part of the cook^ for upon the patient rubbing of all the ingredients through the sieve will hang all the quality of the soup. It is by no means labour spent in vain. The most common vegetable soup is the kind known as Soupe a la Bataille/^ as all the vegetables are supposed to be fighting with each other. With many people this is a foundation soup^ and is varied by adding a larger quantity of the particular vegetable which is to give it its name for the day—more peas^ if it is called pea soup^ etc. In the south of France a vegetable puree will have nothing but a little onion and a few savoury herbs added to its main ingredient. Lentils^ peas_, haricots_, beans^ and potatoes are the most frequently used for purees. They19 SOUPS AND PUREES. are all rendered mucli richer and smoother to the taste if one or two beaten yolks of eggs are added the last thing before bringing to the table. When a white soup is desired_, milk or cream is added^ and the latter should be made hot in a saacepan before putting into the tureen. Turnips^ chestnuts^ potatoes^ Jerusalem arti- chokes^ vegetable marrows^ and white haricot beans_, all make most delicious white soup. The vegetables are indeed few in number which are not pressed into the service of the soup pot in one form or another. In green soups^ where it is desirable to keep the colour nice^ it is well to put the green vegetables in boiling water with a little salt added, and a grain of carbonate of soda, and let the cover of the pot be tilted to allow the steam to escape. A delicate potago, and one which is con- sidered a specific for indigestion by the good people of the south, is made as follows:—A good slice of white bread is cut into dice, and put in the tureen, four eggs, yolks and Avhites beaten separately; with the yolks four spoon- fuls of olive oil are mixed, and this is poured over the bread.SOUPS AND PUREES, 20 A quart of water is boiled with a few shallots^ a clove and a peppercorn or two^ into this the beaten whites are stirred^ and a few spoonsful of cold milk ; the whole is then poured into the tureen^ and quickly mixed together. This is called an eau bouillie/^ As there are but few things^ whether of fish, flesh, fowl, or vegetables which will not lend themselves to soup making, given a fair intelli- gence with patience, industry, and cleanliness on the part of the cook, the variety is almost inexhaustible to the student of this branch of the profession. Potato Soup. For a quart of soup, boil three or four medium-sized potatoes, then mash them quite smooth, and put them into the stewpan with nearly the quantity of boiling water. Eemove the outer skin from a large white onion, melt a small lump of butter, then slice the onion into it and let it stew until perfectly tender, but not brown. When done, dredge a little baked flour over, to absorb the butter, then stir this gradually into the boiling liquor; add saltSOUPS AND PUR^IES, 21 and pepper to season it well^ and let it boil gently until required. Just before pouring into the tureen stir in two tablespoonf uls of hot cream^ and a teaspoonful of dried and sifted parsley. To improve the appearance of the soup, a whole carrot may be boiled at the same time as the potatoes, then cut into fr.ncy shapes and rounds and added to the whole. The beaten yolk of an egg, and a little n.ore butter, will make the soup very much richer. Brown Onion Soup. A little clear stock is required for this. Skin two or three large onions, slice them as thinly as possible, and fry them until thoroughly tender and well browned in a little beef dripping. Drain them. Make the stock almost boiling hot in your stewpan. Mix a little baked flour with the dripping in the frying pan, stir it over the fire to brown it. Add this gradually to the stock, see that it is perfectly smooth. Add the onions next, and leave it to simmer for half an hour. Remove all fat from the surface, add salt, pepper, a spoonful of sharp sauce, same of mushroom ketchup, and a drop of caramel if it be not brown enough already. Serve over fried croutons.22 SOUPS AND PUREES. Tomato Soup. Use either fresli or tinned tomatoes. Melt two ounces of fresh butter, and frizzle first a few chopped shallots, or one white onion. Next skin half a dozen fine tomatoes, and slice them into the butter, and stew them thus until quite dissolved. Have a quart of water, or the same quantity of clear broth, ready in the stewpan. When it boils throw in the white part of a slice of bread cut into dice. Add the con- tents of the smaller stewpan to this, let all simmer together for awhile, then pour through a strainer, rubbing the ingredients well that nothing good may be left behind. Return to the stewpan, season it well, stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up in a cup of milk, let it nearly boil again, then serve. Watercress Soup. Boil half a pint of white haricots until thoroughly tender, rub them through a fine strainer, and add a quart of boiling water to the puree thus obtained. Chop up quite finely a large bunch of washed and picked watercress,—and also a handful of green chives, a bunch of spring onions, som<?SOUPS AND PUREES, 23 cliervil^ parsley, sorrel,—in fact anything green which you may be able to obtain. Melt two ounces of fresh butter, frizzle the chopped green stuffs in this until they show signs of turning colour, then stir them briskly into the liquor in the stewpan. Season well. The soup ought to be sufficiently thickened by the haricots, but if not, wet a teaspoonful of potato flour and stir that in, letting the liquor boil up once afterwards. Vermicelli Soup. Clear stock from mutton, beef or veal; pour boiling water over a small quantity of thin ver- micelli; then drain it, and cut into short lengths with a sharp knife, and throv/ into the stock. Cut quite small one carrot, half a head of celery, and half a dozen fine leeks. Let these all boil until tender in a separate vessel; then add them to the stock, and season it well. If macaroni be added instead of vermicelli, let it boil separately in a saucepan for twenty minutes; then drain and add to the stock. Should it be preferred that the soup be thickened, use a spoonful of brown roux for the purpose; and cook the vegetables in a24 SOUPS AND PURGES. little clarified fat instead of water. Add the macaroni or vermicelli the last of all. White Stock Soup. A quart or more of stock made from knuckle of veal^ chicken or ham bones. Boil an onion and a turnip in a small quantity of this stock; when tender, chop them up finely, and add them to the remainder of the clear liquor. Boil half a pint of fresh milk, and thicken it with a tablespoonful of potato flour previously wetted; stir it into the stock, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and just before serv- ing, stir in half an ounce of fresh butter. Puree of Haricot Beans. Let the beans soak over night; set them on with sufficient water to cover them, and boil them for three or four hours. Rub them through a sieve, leaving nothing but skins be- hind j to every pint of the puree thus obtained add a pint of boiling milk. Season liberally; chop a few shallots very finely, and cook them in a little butter ; dredge a little flour over them to absorb the butter, then stir into the puree. Add a tablespoonful of cream before bringing to table.SOUPS AND PUREES. 25 When fresh button mushrooms are obtain- able, a score of them may be skinned ; then gently boiled for a minute or two, drained, and added to the soup. Puree of Peas or Lentils. Soak these also for a couple of hours. Boil them in the right quantity of water required for the soup. When beginning to dissolve, strain through a sieve as before, and return to the stewpan. Crumble a little stale roll into this liquor, and season with pepper and salt. Chop finely half a dozen fresh spring onions or leeks, a bunch of fresh sweet herbs, and a few leaves of spinach. Cook these in a little butter, then stir into the puree. Pupee of Turnips and Parsnips. Pare half a dozen sound white turnips, and half as many parsnips ; add to them half a head of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a dozen leeks, and an onion. Boil all together in a quart of water for three hours. Strain and rub all well through a colander. Return to the pan; add enough boiling milk to make up the required quantity.SOUPS AND PUREES. 26 season well; and stir in a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Jerusalem Artichoke Soup is made very similarly to the above^ substituting the artichokes for the turnips. Puree of Carrots. Use clear stock made from bones or shin of beef. Grate a large carrot; chop finely a red onion^ and skin two or three tomatoes. Let all these stew together in a covered vessel with a little clear beef dripping, until thoroughly cooked. Then stir them into the heated stock; skim off superfluous fat, season well, and crumble a French roll into the liquor. Let all come to boiling-point; then pour over a few fried croutons in the tureen. Gamekeeper's Potagre. From the remains of game and poultry the following savoury soup may be made. Cut off any nice firm parts of meat, and reserve them for frying. Make a stock from bones and trimmings, adding carrots, turnips, onions, herbs, andSOUPS AND PUREES. Avhole peppercorns to the pot; let this cook many hours. Strain the stock and remove all fat. Cut the meat into small neat pieces; roll in reasoned flom% and brown them well in a frying-pan. Place the meat in the stocky and let that merely simmer. Frizzle a minced onion in the same fat until brown^ then dredge a little baked flour over^ sprinkle with salt^ add a pinch of dried sage, and a drop of caramel; stir these into the stock, then let all simmer for half an hour, and serve at once. It should be of the consistency of cream, highly seasoned, and of a light brown colour. A spoonful of vinegar is a great improvement to thickened and much seasoned soups. All soups should be seasoned sufficiently before taking them to table ; it is most objec- tionable to find them requiring salt before tbey can be eaten at all.28 CHAPTER III. Wegetables an& Wegetable lS>iBhCB. rEGETABLES, as a rule, are not suffici- V ently appreciated amongst Englisli peo- ple, neither are they cultivated in the quantity and variety, nor exposed for sale with the cleanliness and care which make this part of a continental market so attractive to visit. A well prepared dish of vegetables tempt- ingly arranged, with an eye to contrast of colour, may often be served in place of a dish of meat; particularly in large families would it be found most economical, sparing the joint, and frequently obviating the necessity for a second dish of meat; or if served cold, as a salad, will prove a most acceptable accompani- ment where cold meat is a dreaded dish. The medicinal virtues of fresh, well-dressed vegetables are great; they are blood purifiers,VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. 29 as well as being easy of digestion, and most nutritious. If freshly gathered out of the garden, they should be washed as they are wanted_, and not allowed to remain in water; but when bought in town, it is often needful not only to wash, but to soak them in water for some time, to re- gain something of their original freshness. If not the happy possessor of a bit of garden ground (and it is wonderful^ with careful man- agement^ how much may be got out of ever so small a piece), it is a wise plan to treat with a farmer or cottage gardener for a regular supply. To buy in shops or of costermongers is not cheap, besides the certainty that your purchase has suffered considerable handling before it reached you. If laid on the floor of a cool cellar, taking^ care they do not touch each other, and are not wet at the time^ vegetables may be kept quite good for a week in summer time; but in the autumn, when the crops are gathered in, a frugal housewife will lay in her store : carrots, turnips, parsnips, beetroot, potatoes, and such- like are best kept in dry sand. Celery and leeks keep quite fresh if put in a30 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES, box of earth; onions should be strung together^ and hung up. In nearly all dishes and soups made of vege- tables^ herbs play an active part^ particularly sorrel and parsley. During spring and summer they are easily obtained fresh^ but for winter use the parsley should be dried in bunches, as likewise a supply of mint, thyme, marjoram, sage, and, in fact, any herb you can procure. The secret of keeping dried herbs a good colour is to dry them very quickly and thoroughly, hang them as near the kitchen stove as possible; when dry, rub them through a tamis, and bottle for use. Sorrel is gathered in large quantities, and boiled like spinach, with coarse salt, then kept in a deep stone jar. In cooking vegetables, it is most important to keep them a good colour, particularly in cook- ing greens. To do this, it is needful always to place them in boiling salt and water, and leave the lid of the saucepan slightly tilted, to let the steam escape. For white vegetables, such as turnips, cauli- flowers, salsifies, etc., the same precautionsVEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 31 slioiild be observed^ and a little vinegar be added to the water. A French cook will frequently take these out of the water when only partly cooked^ and let them finish by simmering them in white sauce; this keeps them a very good colour indeed. Any vegetables if cooked more than the proper time will soon become soddened ; they should be lifted out of the water the moment they are done. And now we come to consider vegetable dishes proper. Here there is scope for much of taste and judgment^ and the artistic eye of the lady cook as well as the skilled hand of the professional^ for upon the arrangement of colour depends much of the success of the dish. Take, for instance, a plat de carrottes/^ with its pretty contrast of white and red -and green, or the creamy whiteness of choufleurs a la creme/^ and the very pretty dish of spinach with the white and yellow eggs reposing on their dark green bed, and say if it is not so. The garniture of these dishes will call for as much taste as the arrangement of a bouquet. Finely chopped parsley is the cook's grand resource in nearly all these compounds^ and32 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES, trufHes^ capsicums, eggs^ even flowers^ all are pressed into tlie service of ornamentation. As it is the custom in France to serve most vegetables as a separate course^ quite as much care is given to their preparation as to a coarse of meat, and various are the forms they are made to make ; the sauces which accompany or disguise them, and the dressings which, if served cold, transform them into delicious salads. A green vegetable, or dish of greens/' served as an English cook sends them to table, would in a French cuisine be considered quite an anomaly; there they would, after being well drained, be tossed up in butter, seasoned, some fragrant herbs added, and, generally, fried bread would be sent up with them. Peas, haricots, broad beans, cabbages, and cauliflowers are certainly improved by this treatment, so are potatoes; and white sauce, either with or without parsley, is a frequent accompaniment to these and many other kinds of vegetables. Some, again, after being par- tially boiled, are fried in batter, as salsify and parsnips; these make an excellent luncheon or supper dish. When onions are used, they should be firstVEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES, 33 lightly and quickly browned in fat^ tlien drawn away from the fire_, and allowed to cook slowly under cover; this draws the juices out, and makes them very much more easy of digestion. Vegetables, if added to ragouts of meat, make them very much more savoury, and greatly economise the amount of meat. Car- rots accord best with beef, turnips and parsnips best with mutton and veal, while tomatoes suit all meats. Remnants of cold meat, which are often a source of perplexity to the economical house- keeper, may, with a judicious use of very simple means, be turned into many a delicious dish. Green artichokes and asparagus are delicious, and do not come within the reach of the poor man, except he have a garden; but Jerusalem artichokes are both cheap and delicate, also very nourishing. Mushrooms, either stewed or broiled, are the delight of all classes, and well replace a dish of meat. The forms which potatoes may be made to assume are almost legion; while a good potato may be spoiled by bad cooking, an inferior one may, with proper management, be rendered comparatively good. r.c. D34 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES, Large quantities of this most useful vegetable are constantly wasted in many families_, owing to the way in which they are dressed. How is it that the stalls of the ^^marchand de pommes-de-terre frites are never seen in England^ while they are so common in France; where they do a thriving trade ? Vegetables are not usually associated with sweet dishes but the cook who has once succeeded in making a vegetable plum-pudding, will find it a formidable rival to her very best and most time-honoured recipe. It is an open secret that turnips and veget- able marrows are in great request in the large jam and marmalade factories ; and it is really surprising how readily these two vegetables adapt themselves to this sort of use, having the faculty of absorbing whatever flavour is added to them. Many of the following recipes are distinctively French_, and only those vegetables which have not been treated of elsewhere will be found here mentioned. Sea Kale in Cream. Boil sea kale in salted water until it is just tender^ then drain it and lay in a disli^ andVEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. 35 cover with white sauce; 01% better stilly let the kale only be par-boiled, and finish cooking it in the sauce, stirring a cupful of cream into the latter at the last. Before sea kale is in the market, a very similar dish to the above may be made by boil- ing a head of celery, and dressing it the same way. Use only the whitest parts. Green Artichokes, "a la Barigoule." For large-sized artichokes :— Cut off the stalks and remove the tips from the leaves. Boil them in salted water until tender, then drain them, and press between a cloth to exclude all water. Mix together a tablespoonf ul of sausage meat with as much butter, a few bread-crumbs, a spoonful of flour, the same of minced herbs, and a little seasoning. Stir this mixture over the fire for about five minutes, then carefully fill in the spaces between each leaf of the artichokes with it, and place them side by side in a shallow stevvpan; pour a little butter or clarified fat over them, and bake quickly for five minutes. Lift them out on to a dish ; mix a spoonful of sharp sauce with the butter, and pour over all.36 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES, Green articliokes^ after boiling, are coramonly served with dissolved butter; or if cold with a ^'fiance poivrade'' (see Chapter V.), The fol- lowing way is also excellent :— Remove the stalks, split each one in two, and boil them for five minutes. Make a rich brown sauce from a little clear stock and brown roux; add to it one onion, a bunch of herbs, and glassful of white wine; season well. Put the artichokes into this; cover up, and stew for an hour. Strain the sauce, place the artichokes in the middle of the dish, and pour the sauce around them. Jerusalem Artichokes, a la Maitre-d'hotel. Wash the artichokes, and put them to boil in salted water with the skins on. When tender enough for a skewer to penetrate them, drain away the water, peel them, and cut into short, thick pieces. Have ready two ounces of butter melted; put the artichokes into it, turn them about, and sprinkle them with pepper and chopped parsley. When slightly frizzled serve them up. A dash of vinegar is an improve- ment.VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 37 Jerusalem Artichokes in Sauce. After washing and paring them, boil them in water containing vinegar and salt until tender, then serve in white or brown sauce^ or sauce paillette, according to discretion. Cauliflowers au Gratin. Boil them as if for eating with white sauce; drain and crush them with a fork, add a few bread-crumbs or a little cooked macaroni, a nob of butter, a cupful of cream, and plenty of pepper and salt. Butter a shallow dish, pour the mixture into it, sprinkle the surface with bread-crumbs, and bake until slightly browned. Cauliflower '*au Fromag'e." Boil a large white cauliflower; drain it, and break it carefully into two parts. Make a small quantity of good white sauce, and stir into it a spoonful of grated Parmesan, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Butter a fancy dish which will stand firing ; break up half the cauliflower into small bits, and put at the bottom of the dish, cover with a layer of the sauce. Place the other half of the cauliflower on top38 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. of this; well cover every part of it with tho remainder of the sauce; sprinkle it with more cheese^ pour a little melted butter the last thing over the wliole^ and place the dish in the oven to brown the surface. Fried Salsify. Scrape the salsify^ and throw them into vine- gar and water to preserve the colour; boil them until just tender in strong salt and water. Drain them^ flour each one^ then dip them into a batter^ and drop them into boiling fat. Fry until brown ; lift them carefully out and serve very hot^ garnished with parsley. Salsifies^ when boiled^ may be served in white or brown sauce^ or cat small and added to stews of meat. Asparagus tops a la Creme. This is for very thin_, green asparagus; the finer kinds with thick fleshy stalks are invari- ably served with the accompaniment of pure melted butter or white sauce; or^ if cold^ the cruet containing salt^ pepper^ vinegar^ and oil is passed round to each individual partaking of them. Cut the asparagus into inch lengths; leaveVEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. 39 out all tlie white part^ tlirow the pieces into boiling water for about two minutes^ then drain^ place them in a stewpan with butter^ a lump of sugar, some pepper_, and a teacupful of water; cover up and let them stew for at least an hour. Eemove the onion, and thicken the sauce with the yolk of an egg and a little cream. Serve hot over a thin slice of fried bread. Petits Pois. Throw the shelled peas into boiling salted water for one or two minutes, not more; then drain them. Dissolve a little butter at the bottom of a stewpan; put in the peas, two small onions, a sprig of mint and parsley, sprinkle with pepper; add a lump of sugar, and finally cover the top with a cabbage lettuce cut in half, and pour in half a teacupful of water. Put on the lid, and simmer the whole for nearly an hour. Remove the lettuce, herbs, and onions, and serve the peas with the sauce as it is, or thicken the latter by the addition of a yolk of egg and cream. The above is for peas when served alone; when intended for accompanying meat, use a little of the fat from the joint, and omit the thickening agents.40 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. Stuffed Cucumbers. Prepare a mince from the remains of cold meat^ poultry, or fisli; season it highly^ and make it moist with gravy. If a purely vege- tarian stuffing be desired^, make it of bread- crumbs, parsley and chives, butfcer and season- ing, and moisfcen with a beaten egg. Pare a short thick cucumber, and with a corer remove all the seedy interior; press the stuffing into it until it be quite full. Melt a good-sized lump of butter in a stewpan, place the cucum- ber in it (if it will not go in without, cut it in two), put in an onion and a bunch of herbs, also a cup of water; cover up and stew gently for an hour or so. Remove to a dish, take out the onion and herbs, thicken the butter with a little potato flour, season it, add a spoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of vinegar; let it boil, then pour over the cucumbers. Aubergines Farcies. Though but rarely seen, this vegetable is a most delicious one. Pare each one^ and split them down length- wise ; remove the soft interior part. Melt a little butter, and place the half auber- gines to simmer in this. When slightly browned.VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DLSHES. 41 remove tliem to a fireproof dish^ and stir into the butter a teaspoonful of flour and a few spoonfuls of gravy. Chop up the portions which were removed from the insides ; add a good spoonful of fresh herbs minced and salt and pepper to them^ then mix in with the sauce. Let this cook awhile, then fill up the cavities of the aubergines, sprinkle the surface with bread- crumbs, place a few bits of butter in the dish, and bake quickly for ten minutes. Serve in the same dish. Grilled Aubergines. Split them lengthwise, and steep them in salad oil for ton minutes, then drain them, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, and broil them over the fire, turning on both sides. Aubergines may also be split and fried; also baked simply with butter. Fried Parsley is not as frequently used as it should be ; for garnishing hot pastry or fried dishes it should always be used in preference to fresh. Place the picked sprigs in a frying-basket, and plunge that for exactly one minute into boiling fat.42 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES, Curried Vegetables. The following vegetables all make excel- lent curries^ and this form of serving vegetables makes a pleasant variation^ besides being a very savoury one. The addition of a little dessicated cocoanut (purchasable from any grocer in tins) gives a delicacy to the flavour. Potatoes^ celerj^^, onions^ turnips^ parsnips^ artichokes^ haricots_, broad beans^ vegetable marrowS; and cucumbers. For a hroiiii curry proceed as follows:— Have ready some hot fat^ enough to fry the vegetables with ease. Have the latter cut in slices or small even- sized pieces; fry them until brown and tender through ; sprinkle them all over with a little carry powder^ and add sufficient salt. If you have no brown thickening ready made^ dredge the vegetables with a little baked flour before they leave the frying-pan; then pour in a good cupful of clear stocky a spoonful of Nabob ^' or other sharp sauce and ketchups a pinch of cocoanut; and half the juice of a lemon. Let all simmer together for several minutes, then serve in the same way as a meat curry.VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 43 For a ivliite curry^ cook the vegetables in water previous to cutting tliem up. Make a small quantity of rich white sauce. Dissolve a little butter in a stewpan; put the vegetables in to become well heated through^ but not to brown; pepper them with curry powder; stir in the sauce_, then just before serving add a little cream. Veg'etable Pies. As in carries^ a combination of different vege- tables produces a better result than any one kind used singly; also the seasoning must not be given too sparingly. Most vegetables for pies should be at least partly cooked beforehand^ and onions are more rich in flavour if previously/r/ecZ. A sprinkling of tapioca^ sago^ etc.^ gives smoothness and body to the pie. Seasonings should consist of pepper^ salt, fine herbs (dried or fresh), cayenne, mace, allspice, and sometimes grated cheese. As a rule the vegetables should be placed in separate layers, the seasoning between, and the dish filled up with water, stock, or milk, accord- ing to discretion; then simmered a little while44 VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE DISHES. before putting on the crust. Make and orna- ment the crust as if for a meat pie. The following combinations go excellently well together. Alternate layers of cooked macaroni, frizzled onions, green peas, and tomatoes (the latter uncooked); season with pepper, salt, mint and lemon juice. Alternate layers of cooked haricot beans and mushrooms, with a few bits of butter and some chopped parsley; pepper and salt for seasoning. Alternate layers of potatoes, onions, and apples (all uncooked); season with pepper, salt, and mace. Tomatoes, cooked macaroni, onions, apples^ and grated cheese. Potatoes, hard-boiled eggs, fresh herbs, spring onions, and parsley. Cooked broad beans, frizzled onion, parsley, seasoning, and tapioca, filled up with milk. Cooked celery, turnips, and boiled rice. The water in which the celery was cooked is thick- ened, and a little cream added to it, plenty of pepper and salt, a little grated cheese, if liked, and the dish filled up with this.45 CHAPTER IV. THE subject of salads reminds one of Syd- ney Smithes truly Epicurean recipe for a salad dressing, which he concludes by saying— " 'Twould tempt the dying aiicliorifce to eat. Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul, Aud plunge his fingers in the salad bowl." This well-known recipe of his is,, however, quite beyond the reach of an ordinary family salad maker, though well deserving of attention when a festival calls for extra care in regard to this portion of the repast. There are but few days in the year when the salad bowl is absent from the table of the ban bourgeois. He follows the order which kindly nature has provided for him with faithfulness through the succeeding seasons. Spring and summer bring the true salad days of his existence, wherein he may revel in46 SALADS. the variety open to his choice^ and unless the frost be too unkind^ he will manage to preserve his curly endives till the dainty coquiUe has appeared above ground; then watercress speedily conies to ring the changes with dande- lion and chicory. Indeed_, there are few things in the vegetable kingdom which do not lend themselves to his skilful dressing; even cold meat^ fish and game he will treat in this manner with much effect. In warm weather^ cold meat sent to table in this way^ or served with the salad as an accom- paniment^ is often far more acceptable than a hot joint. An old Spanish proverb says it takes four persons to make a successful salad : a spend- thrift to throw in the oil^ a miser to drop in the vinegar^ a lawyer to administer the seasoning_, and a madman to stir the whole together. Though comparatively a simple thing to pre- pare^ it is very easily spoiled if regard be not paid to one or two golden rules. The main thing to observe in lettuce and vegetable salads is that they should be as dry as possible^ and the dressing be added at the last moment only. It is better not to wash lettuces^ but to wipe them with a clean towel^ then shred them intoSALADS, 47 the bowl. If muddy or gritty, or a trifle stale, let tliem lie in cold water awlille, then shako vigorously in one of the open wire baskets sold for the purpose. Vegetables, such as beans, haricots, peas, etc., and kidney beans, should, after boiling, be quite cold and thoroughly well drained before using ; plenty of chopped parsley, and a suspicion of onion added to them when placed in the bowl. Amongst the vegetables appropriate for salads in addition to the first-mentioned, are asparagus, artichokes, boiled beetroot, celery, cucumber, tomatoes, cauliflowers, dandelions, French beans, lentils, broad beans, radishes, salsifies, chicory, and watercress, mustard and cress, chives, and a variety of herbs, which, served with the others, give piquancy to the flavour, and aid digestion. A few shreds of onion should never be for- gotten, though French people prefer to use a clove of garlic, and rub the inside of the bowl with it. A salad well prepared and garnished is a most charming compound. For the garnishing, only such things as can be eaten with the mixture should be used, such as bright radishes, sliced beetroot and cucumber, hard-boiled eggs; nas-SALADS. 4S turtium leaves and flowers and maiigclds may also be used. Botli the latter flowers are edible, and have a pleasant flavour. Of meat salads, chicken salad, or mayonnaise, is the most commonly known, but most poultry and game may be treated in this way. A very appetising way of treating the remains of cold beef is to cut it into dice, excluding all fat and gristle (a very small piece of meat is needed), then to add a good tablespoonful of chopped parsley and chives, and dress as a salad with mustard and oil and vinegar; this goes by the name of a persillade.^^ Fish, too, such as cold salmon or turbot, hali- but and cod, with lobster, either by itself or as a garniture to the first-named, all four being treated in this manner ; eggs should always be included in the dressing. The coral of a lobster is most valuable as a decoration. Lettuce and watercress salads are invariably served with omelettes and most other dishes made with eggs ; and with hot meat and gravy they are a delicious accompaniment, many people, particularly gentlemen, preferring them thus instead of to cold meat. Joan Cromwell's grand salad was composed of equal parts of almonds, raisins, capers.SALADS. 49 pickled cucumbers,, shrimps^ and boiled tur- nips ! Althougli a salad should not be dressed until the moment it is required to be eaten^ the dress- ing may be prepared some hours before it is needed for use^ and, where time is precious^ and salads are frequently required^ sufficient for two or three days' supply may be prepared at once, and bottled up ready for use. If you would succeed and have a truly deli- cious salad, malcG your own dressing; let no hands but your own have anything to do with compounding it. Above all^ eschew the com- pounds sold at the grocers under the name of creams or salad dressing.'^ A foolish prejudice exists among many people against salad oil, but when once they have over- come the dislike, they generally end by becom- ing very partial to it ; its judicious use is of great benefit, as it tends to prevent the fermen- tation caused in the stomach by the presence of a raw vegetable, and is a corrective to flatu- lence. It can often be taken in salads by invalids for whom cod-liver oil has been prescribed, which is so disagreeable and difficult to take, and is found to be very nearly as nourishing. P.O. ESALADS. There are different oils procurable to suit all tastes^ but tlie purest olive oil is always pre- ferred by both French and Swiss people^ and is bought by them in large flagonS; straight from the growers. The principles of salad-making having been broadly given in the foregoing remarks^ recipes for a few choice salads are here appended. Capsicum Salad. An excellent digestive. The capsicums should be rather unripe, although for appearance sake they should be red in colour. Split them, remove the seeds, let them lie in cold water for some hours^ to reduce their pungency. With the fingers pull them to small pieces, and shred some crisp lettuce also. Chop a small onion finely^ and slice up two or three tomatoes. Mix all together in the salad bowl; sprinkle with salt, then pour several spoonfuls of oil and one of vinegar over all, and mix the whole very thoroughly together.SALADS. 51 Cucumber Salad. There will be none of the usual grumbling as to the indigestibility of cucumbers if the following directions are minutely followed :— Firstly, slice the cucumbers as thinly as a sheet of notepaper^ leaving the rind on if the taste of it be not disliked; place the slices on a plate^ also some finely shred onions^ half as many as the cucumber; cover v/ith a sprinkling of salt^ then with another plate^ and let these stand for half an hour to cry/^ Then drain the tears away^ and put cucumbers and onions into the salad bowl. Dredge with pepper and a little castor sugar^ then pour over the usual propor- tion of oil and vinegar, and serve at once. When this salad is to accompany fish, leave out the onion^ and substitute a few sprigs of watercress. Carrot Salad. An accompaniment to cold salt beef. Slice thinly some carrots which have been boiled whole and allowed to become cold. Lay the slices separately on a flat dish and season them with pepper, salt, and a drop of oil on each; squeeze some lemon juice over them. Shred finely some lettuce^ and mix someSALADS. 52 chopped cliives or shallots with it^ and nearly fill the bowl with this. Dredge with the usual dressing; and mix lightly. Carefully lift the slices of carrot and lay them over the green ; decorate with tufts of scraped horse-radish and sprigs of watercress. Celery Salad. The white stalks of celery should be shred downwards^ then cut into inch lengths^, and piled in the centre of a shallow glass dish. Pour over these a cream salad dressing, and place a tuft of the green leaves on the top. Make a border round the base of pickled red cabbage, a few strips of hard-boiled egg, and an outer edge of celery leaves. Apple Salad. A tasty accompaniment to cold roast pork, goose or raised pie. Keswicks are the best for this purpose, on account of their sharp juiciness and fine green skins. Core the apples, but leave the skins on. Slice them on to a shallow dish^ dust them with cayenne pepper, and sprinkle among them a few finely minced shallots. Place a few split capsi- cums and tiny pickled gherkins about the edge^53 SALADS. strain a little lemon juice^ and mix it with an equal quantity of salad oil^ and a pinch each of salt and powdered sugar. Pour over the apples^ and serve before they have time to change colour. Bean Salad. {Salade de Haricofs Verts.) French beans are by far the best for making this, although kidney beans are not at all bad if treated in the same way. When the former are used, strip the strings off and simply break the beans in inch lengths ; do not cut them. Boil them until tender ; drain thoroughly, and leave until quite cold. Put them in a bowl, sprinkle with about two table- spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley and any fresh herbs obtainable, then with salt and pepper, and dress with vinegar and oil. Serve im- mediately. Fennel Salad. For accompanying white fish, turbot, cod, halibut or hake. Use only the tender sprouts of the fennel, and shred them finely; intersperse these with shred leaves of tender cabbage lettuce. Pile up in the bowl, and garnish with choppedSALADS, 54 hard-boiled egg^ slireds of fresh lemon^ and chopped pickled wahiut. Dress as preferred. Haricot Bean Mayonnaise. The white haricot beans should have been soaked previous to cooking them^ to ensure their being thoroughly mealy afterwards. When well drained^ mix with them a little mustard and cress^ and the faintest suspicion of raw onion. Pour over all a good mayonnaise or cream dressing. Very nice for luncheon with brown bread and butter. Mushroom Salad. Small or button mushrooms should be used for this. Eemove the outer skins and most of the stalky drop them into boiling salted water^ and boil gently for two or three minutes. Remove them on to a cloth. When quite cold_, sprinkle them with mixed pepper and salt_, and chopped pars- ley. Pile in the salad bowl^ and dredge liber- ally with oil and spiced vinegar.SALADS. 55 Potato Salad. Slice some cold boiled potatoes very evenly, sprinkle them all over with finely minced pars- ley and shallots, and strew a little thinly sliced lemon amongst them. Mix a teaspoonful of grated horse-radish with an egg salad dressing, and pour it over. Decorate with sliced beet- root^ pickled walnuts, and sprigs of watercress. Sardine Salad. Shred finely some crisp curly endive, dredge it with pepper and salt, some lemon juice, and the oil of the sardines. Mix very thoroughly_, then pile in the centre of a round glass dish. Border with thin circles of hard-boiled eggs. Take several unbroken sardines; split them open to remove the bone, and sprinkle them with fresh lemon peel and cayenne pepper ; close them up, then sharply cut each sardine into three pieces. Lay these fillets over the top of the prepared endive, and serve. A sausage salad might be made in similar fashion, using slices of Lyons or Bologna sausage cut in fancy shapes. The dressing should have mustard and the yolk of egg added to the other ingredients.SALADS. 56 Game Salads. Almost any kind of cold game may be dressed as a salad^ and the following general directions will do for all :— The meat must be very thinly sliced—shaved, in fact—in neat pieces. Lettuces^ mnstard and cress^ and any salad herbs obtainable should be arranged in the bowl in alternate layers with the game. Dress with a mixture of chutney and oil^ with a little spiced vinegar^ and decor- ater the surface with chopped jelly. Ham Salad. Cold boiled or baked smoked ham is the best^ although unsmoked may be used. Mix together and put into a fine dredger a small quantity each of celery salt^ cayenne and black pepper, white sugar and allspice. Shave the lean of the ham, and squeeze lemon juice over the pieces, then lightly dredge them with the above mixture. Shave up some white onions and celery, and put them in the salad bowl with a few white lettuce hearts. Add the ham next, then pour several spoonfuls of oil over all and a dash of vinegar. Serve quickly.57 SALADS. Lobster Salad. Mix a well varied green salad^ and add the flakes taken from the larger part of the lobster; make a pyramid of this. Dress with a rich cream dressing, containing a spoonful of anchovy sauce; then decorate in the following order, commencing from the base : beetroot, sliced cucumber, eggs sliced, prawns, eggs, and lobster coral at the top. As before advised, make your own salad dressing,^^ whether it be simple or compound. The many mixtures which come under this heading are after all compounded of a few things, a greater or smaller proportion of each being employed, according as fancy or fashion dictates. The following are the components of all salad dressings,—the first five being the most com- monly used — Ground pepper, black or white. Salt and celery salt. Mustard. Salad or olive oil. Vinegar, plain, spiced, or flavoured. Yolk of egg, raw or pounded. Mashed potato.SALADS. 5S Lemon juice. Sauces : tomato^ ancliovy; Worcester^ etc. Curry powder. Powdered sugar. Horse-radish. Cream and milk. Rules for Mixing* the Dressings. Add all liquids slow^ly. Put in the vinegar at the last. Mix very thoroughly^ and if intended for future use^ keep in air-tight bottles^ in a cool dark place. Shake well before using.59 CHAPTER V. Sauces* AGENERAL knowledge of sauces is a part of every intelligent housekeeper's culinary education. They are no longer the appendages of the rich man's table only^ for by their aid the homeliest dish may become fit to set before a king/' although the actual cost is within the compass of the peasant's purse. The great chef Soyer used to say that sauces are to cookery what grammar is to language, or the gamut is to music. However this may be^ the skill of a cook is shown in nothing more assuredly than in the way she manufactures a sauce. Sauce certainly ought to serve either as a relish or a finish to the dish it accompanies. The most homely fare may be made relishing^ as the most excellent may be improved^ by a6o SA UCES, well-made sauce^ just as tlie most perfect oil- painting is improved by varnishing. Sauces should display a decided character. Many cooks make a grand mistake on this point; they think they cannot make a sauce sufficiently savoury without putting into it everything that happens to be available, supposing every addi- tion must be an improvement. Spices, herbs, etc., are often absurdly jumbled together. Why have cloves and allspice, mace, and nutmeg in the same sauce, or onions, garlic, and shallots all together ? Any one of these is sufficient by itself. You might as well, to make soup, order one quart of water from the New River, one from the Thames, a third from Hampstead, and a fourth from Chelsea. An ingenious cook will form as endless a variety of compositions as a musician with his seven notes, or a painter with his pigments; no part of her business offers a more frequent opportunity for the display of her imagination; but to become a perfect mistress in the art of cleverly extracting flavours, besides the gift of good taste, requires all the experience and skill of the accomplished professor. Hot sauces should be sent to table as hot as6i SA UCES. possible; and when wine or thickening has been added^ they should be allowed to boil up again^ so that the flavours may be well blended. In compound sauces the flavouring should be so nicely proportioned that no one should pre- dominate over the other, but that the mixture give out a mellow flavour which cannot but be acceptable to the most critical gourmand. Although classed among the elegancies of cookery, they are not necessarily extravagant, or they would never form so important a part of the menu of our bonne hourgeoise. With her, even the juice that runs from the meat is sauce,^^ for it is seldom or never served on the meat dish, as it is in England. That she would consider wasteful, but carefully pouring off every drop, by a few skilful additions it is lengthened,^^ and then served in a saitciere. Stock forms the foundation of nearly all meat sauces, as it is easily adapted to whatever colour is desired. If clear, bright sauce, which is also to be thick, is required, the stock should be thickened w^ith potato flour, as that is transparent, and wine—either golden sherry or port—is usually added. For a thick sauce not necessarily clear, there62 SAUCES. are many ways of thickening; brown roux, wliicli a good cook will make for herself^ and keep by lier^ is most preferable. Vegetable juice is the most wholesome colour- ing matter; spinach juice as a green when available^ or a good substitute is to be found in crushed parsley. A most delicious sauce is made from fresh tomatoes^ for serving hot with boiled beef or veal; and when fresh ones are not to be had^ the tinned or preserved ones will do for the purpose. They should be frizzled in butter^ seasoned^ then just covered with good bouillon^ a few tiny shallots and a little fragrant bouquet added to them^ and allowed to simmer for an hour, after which it is passed through a strainer. Slices of cold beef or veal laid in this sauce, and allowed to get thoroughly hot through, with a few bits of lean ham or bacon, then dished with finely chopped parsley sifted over all, makes a very capital way of finishing up a joint. A thin clear sauce piquante is sauce a la Diable,^^ into the composition of which enter shallots and several herbs finely mixed, made63 mustard^ liorse-radisli grated^ salt and pepper, vinegar and oil or butter^ well stewed together, and a little stocky brown thickening and wine added. In all brown sauces^ the principal ingredients will be found to be, roughly stated, shallots, carrots, mushrooms, yolks of eg^gs, herbs, pars- ley, garlic, cloves, pepper, mustard, vinegar and oil; sometimes white or red wine, with thicken- ing material as required. AVhen making sauces for game and poultry, the goodness should be thoroughly extracted from the giblets and all available bones, by crushing and thoroughly stewing. The pinch of salt must not be omitted in any sauce. White sauces form quite a catalogue by them- selves, from the simple white sauce made from thickened milk to the somewhat elaborate bechamel sauce. For a good ^vhite sauce—which is also the foundation of the richer kinds of the same—use a tablespoonful of flour mixed with a little water, and an ounce of butter and milk or cream to the amount required. When this is boiled, it can receive w^hatever addition is to give it character to suit the dish it accompanies —capers, parsley, anchovies^ oysters, shrimps,64 SA UCES. spices, lemons; in fact^ ifc can be varied ad Hbifiim, Where many sauces are required^ it is a great economy of time and material to have a supply of both brown and white q'oux at hand. Hastily made roux is impossible; and no mixture of flour and butter or other thickeninof a^fent can fill its place—certainly not in taste^ and really not in appearance. Equal quantities of pure butter and hal-cd flour^ stirred briskly and steadily over the fire for a longer or shorter time, is the one and only way of making roux; the difference in colour depends entirely on the time expended upon the task. Sauce dite Beurre Noir. Melt a fairly large lump of butter in a sauce- pan, and keep it briskly stirred while it changes colour ; let it become quite brown, but not burut. Throw in a handful of lightly chopped parsley, a pinch of pepper, and a spoonful of vinegar. Black butter sauce is frequently served with fish.65 SA UCES. Sauce Piquante. Cliop a shallot finely, and frizzle it in a little butter; add a tablespoonful of brown rouXy a teaspoonful of made mustard, same of mixed salt and pepper, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and half a pint of warm water. Boil together, then strain through a sieve, and lastly throw in a tablespoonful of chopped gherkins. Sauce Robert. A spoonful of brown roux, half a pint of clear stock, plenty of seasoning, and a teaspoonful of mustard added last of all. Frequently served with cutlets and steaks, notably with pork. There are two distinct kinds of white sauce— viz.. Sauce hlanclie Farisievne and Sauce hlanclie Normande. Parisienne. Dissolve in a saucepan a small lump of butter, and work into it as much baked flour or potato flour as it will absorb; when smooth, add a few spoonfuls of water to it. When this boils, add to it a fresh quantity of butter cut in small pieces—enough to make the required quantity of sauce. Stir steadily until all is completely p.c. F66 SA UCES, dissolved, but do nob let it boil again. Tlie juice of half or a whole lemon is added at the last. Normande. Moisten a spoonful of feciih or flour v/ith suf- ficient water, add to it a small lump of butter, and milk, to make the requisite quantity; stir over the fire until it boils freely, then season and add lemon juice. White rouXj to which is added milk, or milk and water, makes this sauce to perfection. A little thick cream added at the last greatly improves v/hite sauce. Sauce Poulette. Make a white sauce according to either of the above; allow an onion and a few herbs to simmer in it for a while, then strain, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. Sauce Soubese. Chop up finely a dozen or more shallots, frizzle them slowly in a little butter, dredge a little flour over them, then stir in a tumblerful of hot water; let simmer for a little time. The sauce may then be strained, or not, as desired^67 SA UCES, but it should receive the addition of salt_, pepper^ and a spoonful or two of cream. Served with mutton. Sauce Ravigote. Hoi.—Pat into a saucepan a teacupf ul of water or clear stocky add to it a spoonful each of minced chives^shallots^ chervil, tarragon, mustard and cress, pepper and salt, and one of vinegar. Boil these together for five minutes, then stir in a small lump of butter, and a teaspoonful of potato flour wetted with water to thicken it. Gold,—Take the same herbs, after mincing them, and pound them in a mortar; add to them the ra^T^ yolk of an egg. Mix well together, and add, drop by drop, three spoonfuls of salad oil. A spoonful of vinegar and one of made mustard are stirred in last of all. Sauce Tartare. Mix together the yolks of three eggs, a spoon- ful of mustard and one of vinegar, then add slowly three spoonfuls of salad oil. Stir care- fully over the fire until thoroughly hot, but it must not reacli boiling-point. Or it may be used cold.68 SAUCES. Sauce Bordelaise. Melt a small piece of bufcter^ and frizzle in that two sliced shallots; when done, either stir in a tablespoonfal of brown roux or sufficient potato flour to absorb the butter. Add a tea- cupful of clear stock, a wineglassful of claret, two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, a pinch of salt, same of pepper, and boil together; stir a pinch of mixed herbs in at the last. Much liked with beefsteaks and cutlets. Bechamel Sauce. Some clear but highly flavoured stock is re- quired for the foundation of this. Simmer in this a small onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot cut in rounds, and a clove. When re- quired for use, strain through a muslin, thicken with one or two spoonfuls of white roux, let it boil up once, season well, and stir in lastly three tablespoonfuls of hot cream. Sauce au Jambon. Chop finely a few ounces of lean ham ; frizzle it in a stewpan with a bit of butter. When cooked, stir in a sufficiency of potato flour to absorb the butter, and clear stock or warmSA UCES. 69 water to reduce it to the consistency of cream. Pat in a small buncli of lierbs^ and some pepper. Let all simmer for upwards of an hour, then strain through a tamis. Excellent for serving with poached eggs, cooked celery, salsifies, etc. Sauce Financiere. Put in a saucepan half a pint of good clear stock, a few fowl or game giblets; cut small pieces of cooked liver and ham, a dozen small mushrooms, a dozen shallots, two or three olives, stoned and cut small (or tomatoes may be used instead), a glass of white wine, a spoonful of scraped horse-radish, pepper and salt. Let all these simmer together for a couple of hours, then thicken the sauce with brown roux or butter and flour rolled together, add any gravy available and a small spoonful of curry powder. Boil it once more and serve. Salmis, For the remains of poultry or game. Dissolve a lump of butter the size of an egg, stir into it a large tablespoonful of fecule or potato flour, stir together until brown; add a cupful of stock and one of red wine, salt, pepper70 SA l/CES. and spices. Mix together well^ and when it lias boiled a few minutes draw the sauce away from the fire^ and put in the joints and pieces to be gently simmered therein. A Richer Salmis. Crush the bones_, necks^ giblets, etc._, of the birds which you have been jointing; put all to- gether into a stewpan with red wine and stock enough to cover them, two or three onions, a carrot, pepper, spice and cloves. Stew them together a long time, then strain through a hair sieve. Thicken this sauce until it becomes the consistency of cream, add salt, and taste if it be rightly seasoned. Warm up the jointed birds in the sauce, pour on to a dish, and garnish v/ith potato rissoles or fried croutons. Serve very hot. Mayonnaise Blanche. The chief ingredient of this sauce is a small quantity of clear, savoury jelly. The jelly should be gradually melted by warmth, but must not become warm itself. When sufficiently dis- solved to allow of its whisking easily, set the basin containing it on the ice if possible, if not, in a very cold place. Add an equal quantity ofSA UCES, 71 good salad oil to it^ a spoonful or two of good flavoured vinegar, and a little salt and pepper mixed; tlien proceed to wliisk the whole to a white creamy froth. The oil and vinegar are better if added by degrees. Keep the mayon- naise very cold. Mayonnaise Sauce. This sauce is a mixture of yolks of eggs, oil, and vinegar or lemon-juice. Care is required in the mixing thereof; the oil should be added to the beaten eggs by drops, and the acid put in in the same way the last of all. The proportion usually observed is that of a tablespoonful of oil to every egg-yolk, and a few drops of vinegar. If found too thick when finished, use a little cold water to bring it to the requisite consistency. Use a wooden or silver spoon in mixing a mayonnaise. Green Mayonnaise Sauce is made by adding a small quantity of finely minced herbs—chervil, cress, parsley, etc.^— to plain mayonnaise.72 SA UCES. Horse-radish Sauce. Pare off the outer skin^ tlien scrape or grate an ounce of horse-radish; slightly thicken a cupful of cream or cream and milk^ put the horse-radish into it with half a teaspoonful of salt and a lump of sugar; make the sauce very hot, and just before bringing to table stir in a spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. Horse-radish Sauce, For cold meat. Scrape the root very finely; to two table- spoonfuls of it add half a teaspoonful of salt and a whole one of made mustard. Stir these into a ready mixed yolk of egg and oil, and add lastly a spoonful of vinegar. Serve in a sauce boat. Cream may be substituted for the egg and oil if preferred. Sauce Parisienne, For sweet puddings. Mix a wineglassful of rum or sweet wine with the beaten yolks of three eggs and a tablespoon- ful of sugar; stir over the fire until the mixture begins to tliicken^, draw it aside and add to it three tablespoonfuls of cream. Keep warm, but do not let it boil.73 SA UCES. Sauce Napolitaine, For Neapolitan and custard puddine^s. Dissolve four ounces of currant jelly in a saucepan witli four lumps of sugar^ add to tliis a wineglassful of claret or port wine. Make liot^ but do not let it boil. Sauce aux Citrons. Peel two lemons and squeeze tlie juice from tliem. Place the rind with half a pint of water and four ounces of lump sugar^ to boil in a saucepan. When the goodness has been ex- tracted^ remove the rind^ stir in a teaspoonful of corn flour previously wetted with cold water^ the lemon juice^ and an ounce of butter; boil up once and serve in a tureen. Sauce au Confiture. Mix smoothly together an ounce of dissolved butter and the same quantity of flour; stir in half a pint of warm water with a pinch of salt. Boil this sauce well^ then add to it three or four spoonfuls of nice jam^ free from stones.74 SAUCES. Flavoured Vineg-ars. One or two small bottlesful of vinegars of different flavours will be found most useful for sauces and gravies. As a rule^ steep the herbs or roots in plain vinegar for about a fortnight^ then strain the latter^ put it on in a pan to boil for a short space^ and when cold bottle for use. Horse-radish^ celery^ chili^ garlic, mushroom, and walnut vinegars are made from roots; tarragon, mint, sage, nasturtium, basil, etc., from herbs. Fruit vinegars for sweet sauces, such as rasp- berry, blackberry, plum, etc., are made by steeping the fruit in the vinegar until all the colour and flavour of it has been drawn out, then straining the vinegar into an enamelled pan and boiling it with half its proportion of sugar. Boil for ten minutes, and bottle up w^ell. A very small quantity of flavoured vinegar is sufficient; it must not be used as freely as plain vinegar.CHAPTER VI. THERE is a kind of stew very popular in Prance wliicli is known as a daube/^ Boeuf a la daube ^' is a favourite dish^ but veal, mutton, and joarticularly poultry, all lend them- selves admirably to being treated in tliis way. One great advantage it has is that inferior cuts of meat, or elderly (consequently tough) denizens of the poultry yard, are quite as eli- gible for use in this way as the finest and most tender; if anything, they are, indeed, prefer- able, as they are found to contain more flavour if they can be made tender, and the object of this process is to make them tender, in spite of all resistance they may offer. The daubiere is a close-covered stewing-pot of glazed earthenware, with a deep rim round the top for holding charcoal. It is put either in a corner of the oven, or placed over the grating on the charcoal stove, with more hot76 THE DAUBlkRE'' OR BRAISlkRE: coals round the brim. The latter way is the true method of braising. For cooking a large piece of meat—a leg of mutton, for instance, which can be left until cold before it is cut—it is a mode of cooking truly beyond compare. Most people remember the old rhyme anent the turkey :— " Turkey boiled is turkey spoiled, Turkey roast is turkey lost; But for turkey braised, the Lord be praised ! " Any one who has once tasted turkey done in this way will well understand how it is so much superior. This mode of cooking has for its special object to cause as little evaporation as possible, and thus to retain all the natural juices and flavour of the meat. What is not left in the meat is fixed in the jelly produced by it. Large pieces or joints of meat cooked in this way are equally good eaten either hot or cold; but, as before stated, inferior portions of meat, if stewed in this vessel, may be rendered most excellent and nutritious. Let us first take Boeuf a la daube.^^ The portion of beef used for this is a slice—say, an inch thick—from the shoulder of beef ; either above the blade or under it will do.THE DAUBlkRE'' OR BRAISIERE:' 77 Remove all bone and skin; if you get a pro- per slice^ there will be little of either. Take a small portion of beef kidney^ a slice of fat bacon or salted pork^ and a few large white onions; cut the meat into small squares, the bacon into strips^ the kidney into small pieces, and slice the onion finely. Then in your daubiere arrange them in layers, dredging a little flour over each layer of meat, and taking care to have the fat bacon for the final layer. A few peppercorns should be dis- posed about, and a very little salt. Then, last of all, a glass of red wine should be poured over. Give it three or four hours to cook. It is most excellent. Veal done in this same manner should be left whole, the kidney omitted; but the meat should be liberally larded through v/ith fat bacon, more placed round it, a clove or two and peppercorns, but no onions. Sweet herbs are an improvement, and white wine instead of red. Of course the wine may be omitted alto- gether where great economy is to be observed ; the daube will be less rich, but none the less good without it. Legs of mutton, shanks, thick portions of the78 THE ''DAUBIERE'' OR BRAISIERE}' slioulder^ efcc._, require no addifcion_, save a few sweet herbs and a little fat to give moisture. The same parts of lamb may be cooked in this way also^ and the meat will be found to waste less if so treated. True boeuf a la mode^^ is cooked in the daubiere. When intended to be eaten hot^ the vegetables are served with the meat; but not so intended^ they should be lifted out^ and the fat over the gravy removed as far as possible^ leaving the meat in the vessel until quite cold. It is sometimes well to place a weight over the meat before replacing the lid; it will slice more evenly if this precaution be observed. Apiece of the leg of beef or the round'' cooked in this manner^ and left till cold, makes a capital luncheon dish; it will absorb the flavour of vegetables^ bacon, fat, etc., quite readily. For cooking turkeys, geese or poultry, en daube," the same general directions will suffice. Choose an old bird by preference; pluck and empty it, saving the heart, liver, and gizzard, also the neck; scald these well. Singe the bird, and scald the inside, then truss as if for roasting. Place some fat bacon or salt pork at the bot-THE DAUBIERE'' OR BRAISIEREP 79 torn of the daubier0_, your bird upon that^ and pack round it the giblets^ a calf's foot split and quartered^ two or three carrots split and quar- tered, an onion, some bay-leaves, thyme, and parsley. Add peppercorns and a little salt, a cupful of good stock, and a glass of wine if liked j then cover up tightly, and cook gently for five or six hours. If intended to be eaten cold^ the bird should be lifted out, the liquor strained off into a saucepan, and allowed to boil gently until re- duced to one-third; then all fat must be re- moved, and a white of egg added to clarify it. When nearly cold^ the bird may be carefully coated all over with this glaze. Garnished with curled parsley^ it is a handsome dish^ and no fear need be felt as to whether it will prove tender or no. The giblets and vegetables would be served with the bird if eaten hot; in any case, they make an appetising little dish by themselves with a little of the gravy. A ham may be successfully braised in this vessel^ and thus cooked it vv^ill be found to retain far more flavour than if it were boiled. It goes without saying that it requires nothing with it save a little water. The juice8o THE DAUBIERE'' OR BRAISIEREP which runs from ifc^ with the addition of a little gelatine and white of egg, will make the glaze for ornamenting it. In the South it is customary^ after the meat is cooked, to lift it out on to the dish, and then to put in whatever vegetables are intended to be eaten with it ; say, for example, a leg of mutton has been cooked in the daubiere, and it is intended to have a dish of haricots or flageo- lets to accompany it; these last will have been boiled until tender, then dropped into the dau- biere to finish cooking in the jus/' The potatoes also would take their turn in like manner, the result being that they will all receive the flavour of the gravy, and har- monise with the principal. Plain boiled vegetables are regarded as incomplete. Before closing this chapter, I would mention the class of meat dishes known as the galan- tines/^ Although not cooked in precisely the same way, not necessarily in the daubiere at all, still the principle is the same. They may be made of either cooked or uncooked meat. When fresh meat is used, the portion is often ''^ pique,'^ or larded with something which con- trasts in colour, the white meat of veal has aTHE DAUBIERE'' OR BRAISIEREJ' 8t truffle or two inserted^ and red meats will have tlie contrast of a green nasturtium seed^ etc. I will describe the preparation of a galan- tine de volaille when made of cooked meat. All the flesh parts of a fowl^ previously boiled^ should be sliced very thinly, a small quantity of ham and tongue also, a little sau- sage-meat mixed with chopped parsley, herbs and bread crumbs, and made up into little balls, two eggs hard boiled, also sliced, and a little red beetroot cut into strips. Take a fluted mould, arrange these ingredi- ents in order, having regard to the appearance when turned out, then take a cupful of cloai stock, season it well, add a little gelatine (pre- viously dissolved), colour it a light brown, and pour over all. Place the mould in a corner of the oven to cook gently for an hour, then weight it well, and stand aside till quite cold. A galantine made of fresh meat would, of course, take longer to cook, but it would also require pressing with a weight, as these dishes are intended to be sliced very delicately. As luncheon, supper, or '^reserve dishes they will be found exceedingly useful, looking as well as tasting very good.82 CHAPTER VII. 3fr8ing an& Saute ^'^ncj* FRYING plays an important part in Frencli cookery, but it is a very different method to that which is pursued by most English cooks. The English way more nearly resembles what a Frencli woman would call to saute/^ that is, to toss up, turning first to one side, then to the other, in only a little fat, wliile the vessel used is a shallow one. This method has its advantages for several things—vegetables, for instance, which are to be lightly browned, chops or steaks which re- quire very quickly doing, and most dishes of eggs, such as omelettes, although these last should have a vessel kept for their sole use. Fish of all kinds, bread-crumbed cutlets, rissoles, fritters, etc., all require to be plunged into boiling fat. The principle in cooking them is the same as in boiling meat—to form a crustFRYING AND SAUTE''-ING, 83 at once upon the outside that shall keep in the flavours and juices of the article fried. For this purpose a deep iron vessel is the only true frying-pan; its depth may be from six to eight inches, and its dimensions sufficient to take in a good-sized fish. Most French pans of this description have the handles across the top, so that the pan can be hung on a chain if more convenient when using over an open fire. Here again the charcoal stove is preferable, as the embers should be red-hot; it is impossi- ble to fry well over a smoky or blazing fire. These frying-pans are invariably quite half filled with fat; at first sight it may seem ex- travagant, but it is not really so, as with care, and taking due precautions, the same fat will serve very many times. If poured off into a jar, which already con- tains a little boiling water, as soon as it is finished with, and covered over when quite cold, keeping in a cool place, it will but seldom require renewing. Of course, when fish has been fried in this, it should be reserved for that purpose alone, as also anything else of a strong flavour. An excellent idea of good frying might be gained by watching the performance of the84 FRYING AND SAUTE''~ING, marcliand de pommes-de-terre frites/^ whose stall is sucli a common sight in the streets of all French towns. His little furnace is filled with coke^ red-hot^ the iron pan_, slung on a chain^ so that he can raise or lower it at will^ is three parts full of boiling fat. The fat he prefers^ by the bye^ is suet melted^ as it is clear and tasteless. The potatoes^ pared, drained, and cut into finger lengths by a little machine made for the purpose, are thrown into the pan, and occa- sionally stirred about; a few minutes see them cooked, brown and crisp, then the pan is drawn up, the potatoes lifted out into the strainer; and here it should be noted how careful he is not to leave one in the fat, lest that should, by being overdone, impart a burnt flavour to the rest. In this same manner suburban Parisian restaurants will turn out the most tempting dishes from the rather coarse and tasteless river fish. If the precaution is taken to have the fat quite boiling, there is no fear of anything be- coming soddened with grease when cooked in this way. Boiling fat is generally still, free from bubbles, and a faint blue vapour may be seen to rise from it.FRYING AND SAUTE''-ING. 85 It is really more difficult to saute to perfec- tion than it is to fry well. In tlie former case^ the great point to observe is to take care the saute is not too much done^ as in that case it will not be eatable. To toss it light and quickly, and remove before it has had time to become tough, is a safe rule. Potatoes are very frequently dressed in this manner when intended to eat with veal or pork; finely chopped parsley is sprinkled over them just before serving. Cold boiled potatoes are by this means rendered equal to fresh ones. Carrots, turnips, and parsnips, with a variety of beans, are all excellent if so treated. Eggs may be lightly tossed in the saute pan without actually making an omelette of them. Parsley is a great addition to all sautes. A favourite form of using up cold meat by frying is to make rissoles. Remains of any meat or poultry, with a few bread-crumbs, herbs and a minced shallot, and a little good sauce to moisten the whole. Roll out a sheet of paste (puff paste is the best) to an eighth of an inch in thickness, cut into squares, place a little of the mince in the middle, fold over securely, and fasten the edges together with white of egg: plunge into the pan86 FRYING AND SAUTE''-ING. of boiling fat, let them cook a few minutes^ when they will swell out and become deliciously crisp and brown. If drained on a sheet of blotting-paper, then garnished with curled parsley, quite a hand- some dish may be obtained at a very small cost. Sweet rissoles may be made the same way, substituting minced apples, bread crumbs, and a little honey for the meat. The Beignet aux pommes,^^ the really genuine apple fritter, is rather different to the apple fritter of the English cook. The batter is made by mixing a tablespoonful of flour smoothly with a little water, then add- ing a little salt, a spoonful of olive oil, and two beaten whites of eggs. The apples are pared, quartered, and evenly sliced, then allowed to soak a little while in some sweet wine, with a few drops of lemon- juice. When ready to use them, dip each piece in the batter, and drop into the boiling fat. When cooked and drained, they should be liberally frosted with white sugar. Oranges may be done in this way, also rhubarb cut into short pieces. Many little cakes made of dough may be fried in this way, and they are truly delicious.87 FRYING AND " SAUTE''-ING. Where butter or meat fat is difficalt to obtain, boiling oil is used for tlie same purposes ; it is an excellent substitute when once one lias become accustomed to tbe flavour. In Italy and Spain it is generally preferred to any other fat. French pancakes or crepes are dropped into boiling fat; hence the curious shapes they assume: the cause of much merriment at carnival parties. But they are certainly not superior to the genuine English pancake^ the shallow frying- pan being eminently suited to this dish, and here at least the English cook can hold her own. It used to be the boast of the old race of Virginian cooks that they could toss a pancake with such accuracy up the mouth of the wide chimney, that it would turn itself^ and come down, like St. Lawrence, ready to have the other side fried. Fortunately, it is not necessary to attain the skill needful to perform this acrobatic exploit in order to turn out a first-class pancake. In the making of these, as in most other things, experience is the best teacher. The distinction should always be observed88 FRYING AND SAUTE'' ING. between a fritter and a pancake^ remembering that the one is boiled in f at^ while the other is fried—first one side and then the other. When making a number of fritters or small things^ it is a great convenience to place them in one of the wire baskets_, sold for the purpose, before plunging them in the pan. Omelettes are a ^^race apart/^ and will be found under the head of " Maigre Dishes.^' They can scarcely be said to be fried, and they certainly are not boiled.89 CHAPTER VIII. Some ©ateauj anb Compotes* T'HILE standing pre-eminent in the art of V Y pastry-making, the French cook is not great in the matter of cakes. A glance at the Patissier's window will show this directly. Amongst all the appetising array of dainty con- fections the number of cakes may be counted upon one's fingers. And the ^^bourgeoise mena- gere would never dream of making a loaf of cake, although she has a great appreciation of both plum-cake and plum-pudding; while her English sister is ever on the look-out for some- thing new to add to her already lengthy list. Here, be it stated, the ^^gateaa^^ is not exactly a ^^cake,^^ it is rather a dessert dish, and as such is most generally used in the country where puddings are little known. Al- though some of them in their fanciful decoration are beyond the scope of the amateur, still a few of them may be fairly well imitated.90 SOME gAtEAUX AND COMPOTES, The ^^Genoise fourree^^ is the foundation of many charming gateaux—the fourree, or filling, being varied at will. The number of eggs needed depends upon the size of the gateau required. The whites and yolks are separated^ and both thoroughly beaten; with the yolks a little rose water or orange- flower water is mixed; pounded sugar and fine dry flour in proportions of a quarter of a pound of each to four eggs; the whites are added last of all^ and the whole thoroughly beaten_, then poured into a well-buttered tin not more than two to three inches in depth^ and baked in a quick oven till a delicate brown. For a gciteau d^Abricots/^ this would be split open and apricot preserve spread between ; the whole would then be covered with clear sugar icings and richly ornamented with candied fruits. Or sometimes in place of jDreserve wdll be found the creme Frangipane and the icings or_, as a substitute for the iciug^ caramel would be used. The same foundation is used for a chocolate or coffee cream gateau; the cream consisting of butter and pounded sugar well beaten together^ with the addition of made coffee or chocolate. This being very stiff* is used also for the outside decoration^ and is wreathed into many fantasticSOME gAtEAUX and COMPOTES, 91 forms; tLe outer edge of the gateau being covered with grated ahnonds. ^^Piite d^Eclairis the foundation of quite a distinct kind of gateau. Its ingredients are butter^ flour^ and beaten eggs^ no sugar^ but a pinch of salt. The butter is first dissolved in a lined saucepan^ the flour briskly stirred in^ a small quantity of warm milk added^ and this is boiled^ stirring rapidly all the time^ for about five minutes. It must not be stiff even then^ therefore but a small quantity of flour is needed. Let this become cool before stirring into it the well-whisked eggs. For Eclairs aux Ohocolat^^ this batter would be poured into little boat-shaped moulds^ well oiled^ and when cooked they would be split open and a spoonful of custard cream inserted in the hollow^ closed up again^ and the outside coated over with melted chocolate. ^' Choux a la creme are round tartlets made of this batter^ the hollow filled with cream. The pate, if made a little stiffer, is used for fancy erections, basket-work devices, etc. Franglpane " is a delicious creamy custard. To beaten eggs, new milk and a very little flour are added, with fine w^hite sugar; these arc brought nearly to boiling-point, and when thick, crushed ratifias, a glass Gif brandy, lemon-juice,92 SOME gAtEAUX AND COMPOTES, and a little butter are stirred in. Tartlets made of pate feuillete are filled with this. A gateau au riz is a sweet dish very popular in France. Whole rice is cooked in milk till quite soft^ and the milk nearly ab- sorbed; then sugar, lemon-juice, a little butter, and beaten eggs are well stirred in. The mix- ture is poured into a shallow mould, which has been well buttered and coated with fine bread- crumbs and sugar. This is baked until firmly set, when it is turned out, and covered all over with caramel, and ornamented according to fancy. It is always eaten cold. The brioche is quite a difi*erent production to the English bun. One-third of the quantity of flour intended to be used is mixed to a very soft paste with a little frothing yeast and warm water; with the other two-thirds of flour, eggs, a little butter, a few currants, salt, and more warm water are mixed to a soft paste again. These two pastes are then kneaded together to form a dough, which is left to rise several hours ; then the brioches are cut out, brushed over with egg and milk, and baked very quickly. They are exceedingly light, and much liked by people who do not care for sweet cakes. The same mixture is baked in loaves, which are cut up and buttered, as for bread and butter.SOME gAtEAUX and COMPOTES, 93 The cakes made at the fetes in the country towns and villages are very similar^ more or less rich^ with or without the fruity according to the custom of the district. Here should be mentioned the tarte/^ the genuine country tart_, which makes its appear- ance on every table when the ducasse or wakes come round. The crust bears some resemblance to the pate d'Eclair/^ but the country flour renders it much more substantial \ the custard which frills it is a wonderful com- pound of eggs, milk and sugar, spice, with here and there an occasional raisin making its appearance. When well made, this compound is very good, but an inferior make has an unfortunate resem- blance to leather, and needs a country appetite to make it go down.^' When making tarts of fresh fruit, the bour- geoise will invariably make a marmalade of her fruit before laying it on her crust; placing a lattice-work of strips of pastry to finish off the top. A fruit pie,'^ or tart, with the crust over the fruit, is quite unknown in France. Puddings are but little adopted in French families, gaufres and biscuits, with ^'^ confiture/^ in winter, or compote of fruit in summer. Fresh fruit and cheese is the general finish to a dinner.94 SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES, Pastry and sweets are only indulged in on Sundays and extra occasions. Nearly all fruits may be made into compotes. The syrnp should be made first by dissolving sugar in water^ and allowing it to boil; then the fruit is added^ whole or divided, and cooked until tender; the syrup remaining after the fruit is removed may be boiled till it thickens, and receive colouring to make it contrast, if desired. A compote of apples, pared and quartered, cooked in clear syrup, the remaining liquor coloured with cochineal^ makes a very pretty dish. Pears invariably receive the addition of claret, and they are cooked in the oven^ as they require a much longer time. The wine is thought no extravagance^ as it so greatly enriches the fruit. There is a very wide difference between a compote and stewed fruit/^ but with the former^ as with the latter, the addition of a little whipped cream or custard is a great improvement. The good menagere generally prefers to make her own liqueurs.'^ For all of them the fruit is steeped in spirit till all the goodness is extracted, then sugar equal to the weight of theSOME gAtEAUX and COMPOTES, 95 liquor is added^ and all boiled together for about twenty minutes. When cool^ it is bottled off. They make very wholesome drinks with the addition of water. There is a sweet pickle of very high repute in Switzerland. Date-plums^ dry and sounds and not too ripe^ are taken and placed in salt and water for forty-eight hours. They are then drained and dried in the sun. Afterwards they are put into jars_, and boiling vinegar with pounded sugar (a pound to a pint) is poured over them. When cool, they are closely covered and set away. It is a delicious pickle for cold meat. Cherries also are very good done this way. Souffle un Citron. A souffle may be either steamed or baked; in either case it must be eaten without a moment's loss of time, as it falls directly. Re- member also to only partly fill the mould which is used; this species of gateau^' usually trebles itself in size while cooking. To make a souffle for six persons, take a pint of milk, four ounces of lump sugar, and three fresh eggs. Boil the milk and sugar, together96 SOME GAtEAUX AND COMPOTES. with the pared lemon rind^ in a lined saucepan. Mix smoothly with a little cold milk^ two table- spoonfuls of flour, then pour the boiling milk on to this, taking care there are no lumps. Return all to the saucepan, and boil, stirring rapidly, for three or four minutes, then pour this into a basin. When the above mixture is perfectly cold, beat into it the whisked yolks of eggs, the juice of half a lemon (the rind must have been re- moved before), and lastly the frothed whites. Have your mould well buttered, pour the mix- ture into it, and either bake or steam it (without a cover) for twenty minutes. The cover of the steamer must of course be fastened down; there should be sufficient depth of pan to allow of the souffle rising without coming in contact with the lid. Serve citron sauce with this souffle. [See Chapter V.) If preferred, the flavouring may be omitted from the souffle, and a chocolate sauce made and poured round it on the dish. For the latter, scrape or dissolve a tablet of chocolate, add a quarter of a pint of water to it, and a teaspoonful of cornflour to give smoothness and substance; boil well. It will be easily seen that a plain souffle maySOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES, 97 be varied by the admixture of almost any flavouring, also by tlie variety of sauces served with it. The first part of the mixture may be made any time in advance. Diplomate. Remove the crust from some thin slices of stale white bread^ and stamp them into small rounds; dip each one in sweet wine. (If pre- ferred, sponge biscuits or stale sponge cakes may be used instead.) Butter a plain round mould. Arrange the rounds evenly at the bottom and sides, sprinkle the bottom with stoned raisins, a few currants and strips of candied peel. Put another layer of bread or biscuits next, and alternate thus with the fruit until the mould is three-quarters filled. Boil a pint of milk, pour it after sweetening upon two beaten eggs, add spice and salt; then care- fully pour this custard into the mould. Let the mould stand for two or three hours, then bake or steam it for three-quarters to one hour. Turn out, and serve with wine or custard sauce poured round it. P.C. H98 SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. Savarin. The mould generally used for this is a large ring with a hollow centre. The ingredients required are half a pound of fine flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a tumblerful of warm milk, an ounce of fresh German yeast, a tablespoonf ul of sugar and half a teaspoonful of salt, with two eggs. Put the flour in a basin, make a hollow iu the centre, and put in the yeast mixed smoothly with warm w'ater and the milk; mix this w4th suflicient of the flour to make a stiff" dough. Cover the basin, and set that in a warm place where the sponge may rise. When it has risen to twice its original size, add to it the sugar, the butter ready dissolved (but not too warm), salt, and the eggs—broken but not beaten. Knead these all briskly together with the hand, until the dough appears all bubbles. Butter the mould, and sprinkle the inside with blanched and chopped almonds and pow- dered sugar. Half fill it with the paste ; set in a warm place to rise until the mould becomes quite full. Bake it in a quick oven for about half an hour. Let it slightly cool, then turn out on toSOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES. 99 a fancy disli^ and pour over it tlie following syrup :— Four ounces of sugar boiled with a tumbler- ful of water, and flavoured with a little rum or essence. Galette Cherbourgeoise. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter, and work it into half a pound of baker's dough ; add to it two beaten eggs, two spoonfuls of spirits of wine or other spirit, and half a tea- spoonful of salt. Knead or beat well for several minutes; let it stand in a warm place to rise for a couple of hours, place in a buttered tin which it will only three parts fill, and bake for thirty minutes j turn out and serve hot. Galette Lorraine. Rub together half a pound of flour and half as much butter, add a pinch of salt and an egg, with water sufficient to form a stiff paste. Roll out to the thickness of a five-shilling piece, place on a buttered tin, crimp the edge, then bake in the oven for a few minutes; Avhen partly done draw it out, and pour upon it a cream made from two beaten eggs and a cup of sweetened milk. Sprinkle a few chopped nutsloo SOME gAtEAUX AND COMPOTES. over^ and bake until the custard is set and browned. Saint Honore. Make a paste by putting into a saucepan a tumblerful of water^ a little sugar^ tke size of an egg in butter^ a pinch of salt^ and a small bit of lemon rind; and when these are boiling, dredge lightly and carefully in with one hand (stirring vigorously all the time with the other) sufficient flour to make a light paste. Keep stirring for five minutes longer^ then take off the fire^ and allow the paste to cool. When cool, break into it three eggs, one after the other, beating the paste all the time. Form part of this paste as the crust of a tart- let, and bake it in the oven till of a bright brown. Drop the remaining paste in small balls on to a buttered tin; bake them also. When the tartlet is done, take these balls, coat them with melted sugar, and place them all round the edge of it, pour the remaining syrup over all the edge again. Fill the interior with a thick pastry cream, or whipped cream, and serve fresh. Marasquin, Blanch and crush half a pound of sweet almonds. Add to the paste four ounces ofSOME gAtEAUX and COMPOTES, loi butter or pure lard^ four ounces of dry flour^ the same weight of sugar^ two eggs—the whites and yolks beaten separately, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, a pinch of salt and spoonful of cream. Beat these ingredients well together, and spread them over a round of good puff paste. Bake for upwards of half an hour. Glaze the surface with sugar and water, or a little dis- solved sweet jelly. Quatre-quarts. (¥o%ir Quarters.) Take three or four eggs. The same weight in flour, butter, and powdered sugar; mix all well together, and add a glassful of spirit or orange flower-water to the whole. The whites of the eggs should be beaten stiff and added lastly. Butter a mould, sugar it well, and bake the cake in a moderate oven for upwards of an hour. May be flavoured at discretion. Gateau d'oBufs, au Vanille. Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, then lightly stir into them four spoonfuls of powdered sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla (if vanillaI02 SOME GATEAUX AND COMPOTES, is disliked^ use lemon-juice) ; have ready a fancy mould well buttered and sprinkled inside with sugar. Pour the whites into this—they should not more than half fill it—and steam the mouldy setting it in a hain-marie. When it has well risen and seems set^ turn it out on to a dish, and pour round it a sweet custard made from the yolks. Grarnish with currant jelly. Creme Renversee. For a moderately large mould take a quart of milk and boil it with half a pound of lump sugar and fresh lemon rind^ or part of a pod of vanilla. When cooled a little^ stir it into eight eggs lightly beaten, the yolks and whites together, then pour this cream into a buttered mould which will just contain it, and set the mould in a hain-marie or in a cool oven. When the cream is become solid, set the mould in a cold place, and when required turn it out on to a dish, and place currant jelly around it. Creme Sambayone. Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs. Place the yolks in a saucepan, with three table- spoonfuls of sugar and a wineglassful of rum or brandy ; stir these briskly together over the fireSOME gAtEAUX and COMPOTES. until tlie mixture begins to thicken^, when with- draw it at once. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir them into the yolks when tlie latter mixture is cool. Pour into small glasses or cups. Charlotte Russe. Line the bottom and sides of a plain mould with finger biscuits and ratafias. Fill up the mould with whipped cream^ or a cream made with isiuglass. which when cold will become solid. Set the mould on ice or in a very cold place. Turn out of the mould just before bringing to the table. Compote of Quinces. Throw some quinces into boiling water for a fcAV minuteS; lift them out and pour a little cold water over them. Next^ peel them carefully^ take out seeds and cores^ quarter and sub- quarter them and put theee latter into a little clear boiling syrup and allow them to cook until thoroughly done. Take the fruit out on to a dish^ boil the syrup a little longer to reduce it^ then pour over the fruit.I04 SOME GAtEAUX AND COMPOTES. Compote of Pears. Pare tlie pears very thinly, slice them not too thinly^ but removing the pips. Lay them in a stewpan with two or three lumps of sugar^ a clove or two, and blade of cinnamon. Pour over them a tumblerful of claret and water enough to just cover them. Cover up the stewpan, place it in the corner of the oven and let the pears cook gently thus for at least an hour or more. Compote of Cherries. Make a clear syrnp with sugar and a little water. Cut away all the stalk save about half an inch from some sour cherries. Let them cook in the syrup until thoroughly soft. Allow them to get cold in this before removing them to a dish. Compote of Plums. Make the syrup^ and put the plums in when it is boiling hot. Let them cook not too rapidly, until they show signs of breaking, then remove them to a dish^ and pour the syrup over. Compote of Prunes. Let the prunes soak for several hours in cold water. Pour away this water^ then place theSOME gAtEAUX and COMPOTES, 105 prunes in a stewpan with sufficient fresli water to cover them and a few lumps of sugar. Cover closely and cook slowly for a couple of hours. Compote of Rhubarb. Make a little syrup; cut the rhubarb—after wiping with a clean cloth—into inch lengths. Drop the pieces into the syrup and cook until they show signs of breaking. Remove the fruit to a dish. Add a few drops of lemon juice to the syrup^ boil it until it becomes reduced^ and pour over the rhubarb. When making a compote of strawberries use red currant juice instead of water for the syrup. It is generally sufficient to pour a boiling syrup over ripe strawberries^ having the berries in a dish which will not break^ and letting them lie in the syrup until perfectly cold before re- moving to their proper dish.CHAPTER IX. jflDaigre'' Wishes. HILE^ in the present degenerate days^ V V fast days are but little observed in comparison witli tlie fashion of keeping them in the old times^ when the ^'cures'^ held undisputed sway^ stilly amongst fairly good Catholics, Friday is set apart as a day when no meat shall appear on the table—while the weeks of Lent are the butcher's holiday time. Good Friday is rigidly kept as a day of absti- nence by all classes; almost superstitiously kept, indeed, for to eat meat or any animal fat on that day would be regarded as a wdlful courting of calamity. Even eggs and butter are excluded from the menu of the good Catholic on that occasion. As a rule, to faire maigre is merely to abstain from meat, its place being taken by fish. During the Lenten season it is somewhat lOGMAIGRE'' DISHES, 107 difficult to find vegetables to make separate dislies from^ the winter's supply being nearly exhausted^ or becoming tough, while it is still too early in the year to look for fresh ones. The ^^menagere/' therefore, looks to her fowl pen as her great resource, and, fortunately, eggs are by then both good and plentiful and fairly cheap. Fish is generally abundant at that time, and a good choice to be had. Almost all vegetable soups come under the title of ^^maigre,^^ but ^'^potage au lait'^ is eminently entitled to do so. In the best cuisines it is made after this fashion. A quart of milk is boiled for a little time to extract the flavour from a small piece of lemon rind, a few coriander seeds, and a small piece of stick cinnamon ; a pinch of salt and several Jumps of sugar. It is then strained, and a small quantity poured over the soft part of a thick slice of bread cut into dice, and put in the tureen. This is placed where it will keep hot, and into the remainder of the milk two yolks of eggs should be stirred, and then allowed to boil till they slightly thicken the milk, when it also is poured into the tureen and served immedi- ately.MAIGRE'' DISHES. io8 Bisque/^ made from crab^ is generally thonglit to be a ratlier rare disb^ but it can be made with very little trouble. From a cooked crab all the flesby part should be taken and carefully pounded in a mortar with an equal quantity of boiled rice^ a little water^ and cayenne pepper; pass it through a tamis^ and add a sufficient quantity of boiling milk or cream; then pour into a hot tureen. A very small quantity of lobster butter (which is simply the coral of a lobster pounded with butter)^ if stirred in^ will turn it a bright red^ and make a very pretty dish. A very delicate and tasty dish of salted cod- fish is made as follows : To clear the fish from salt it is allowed to lie in water for twenty-four hours; it is then slightly boiled^ drained^ ard broken into flakes. Into the saute pan a few knobs of butter are put to melt^ then a little white breads roughly crumbed_, and a teacupful of cold mashed potatoes; these are tossed about with a fork, and a cupful of milk added by degrees, with a good seasoning of pepper; lastly, the flakes of cod are added, and all well beaten with the fork until it froths; it is then poured out into a hot dish and eaten with strips of toasted bread.''MAIGRE'' DISHES. 109 A favourite way of cooking flat fisli;, such as soles or plaice^, witli French cooks is to do them au gratin/^ When so cooked^ they should be served in the same dish; a silver one is best^ but a bright block tin will answer the purpose. The bottom of the dish is well buttered^ and spread with finely-minced herbs^ a shallot or two^ seasoning, and bread-crumbs. The fish is placed upon this bed, and covered over with the same mixture; then placed in the oven to bake. A glass of white wine is generally added. Sole a la Normande^^ is done siuiilarly to the preceding ; but a rich sauce, made of melted butter, yolks of eggs, button mushrooms, oysters, and a little lemon-juice and white wine, is poured over the fish before sending to table. It is a truly Epicurean dish. Mackerel and herrings are excellent when split open, boned, and broiled over a clear fire; they are better still if the following sauce be poured over them: Melted butter (slightly thickened with flour), a spoonful of vinegar, the same of Worcestershire sauce, also one of chopped parsle}^; pepper and salt to taste. We will now consider the subject of omelettes '—one of the easiest things to make, and alsoMATGRE'' DISHES, no one of tlie easiest to spoil. It is strange liow few Englisli cooks seem able to turn out a really good omelette, and yet the veriest pay- sanne in a country cafe in sunny France will make one, at a mementos notice, to satisfy the most critical taste. Let us, in imagination, visit one of tliese cafes, and watch how the good wife proceeds. Setting a light to her charcoal braisiere, she will wait till the embers are red, then put on her pan, generally a black iron saute pan, kept for this purpose alone; into this she drops a lump of butter, and while it is melting she breaks her eggs on to a plate, beats them quickly with a knife, and adds salt and pepper to them. When the butter is frothing and turning brown, she pours in the eggs, slips a knife underneath the middle and round the edge, to insure it not sticking to the pan, and as soon as ever it is ^^set,^^ she whips off her pan, claps a hot plate over it, and with a dexterous twist manages to turn it upside down, and re- move the pan, leaving the omelette on the plate —light, with a delicate brown crust upper- most. This plain omelette may be varied ad in-MAIGRE'' DISHES. Ill fmitinn by adding minced onion_, lierbs^ parsley_, musliroonis^ clieese_, or whatever fancy may dictate. Another way of making omelettes is to beat the eggS; whites and yolks separatelyand add a few spoonfuls of milk. This makes quite a different kind^ and is more suitable for sweet omelettes when preserves or jellies are eaten with them. Two eggs per person is a very moderate allowance when making single omelettes. When several persons are intending to partake at the same time, it is better to use more eggs, and make one large one. Salad is a delicious companion dish to a savoury omelette, and makes it a very substantial luncheon or supper dish. When ham is obtain- able, some very thin slices slightly frizzled are also an excellent addition, when not intending to make a meal exclusively au maigre.^^ Eggs are also very good when cooked ^^au gratin.^^ The same preparation is used as for ^'^ sole au gratin,^^ and the eggs broken on to the bed, and allowed to cook until just firm. A great variety of excellent maigre dishes may be made from rice and macaroni. Rice is, perhaps, m.ost generally liked when used for''MAIGRE'' DISHES. 112 sweet dishes^ or in curries. With cheese or fruit it is an excellent food. Macaroni is not generally appreciated in England^ but on the Continent it becomes a wholesome and delicious preparation. Dishes of macaroni^ with tomatoes^, mushrooms^ truffles^ cheese_, or fish are all good. The following recipe may be novel to many people :—After the macaroui has been boiled and drained, put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and as much grated Parmesan as will make it as thick as custard; toss well together with a fork; then take a French roll, which has been previously soaked in wine and made hot; pour the maca- roni over it, and slightly brown in the oven. Always put macaroni into boiling water with salt; allow twenty minutes for it to cook through; then drain well before using it. As being pre-eminently Lenten faring, most of the recipes for the cooking of fish will be found grouped under this heading. The method of cooking fish " an gratin has been detailed above; the following is anothei capital way of treating flat fish :—''MAIGRE'' DISHES, 113 After washing and dryings cut it down the middle on tlie white side^ carefully raise the meat from the bones on each side^ but do not lift it right off. Prepare a little light^ well- seasoned stuffing of bread-crumbs^ parsley^ butter-seasoning and egg, no milk; spread this on the under side of the raised flesh, press it down to the bone again^ brush over the surface with beaten egg, sprinkle with seasoned crumbs; lay the fish in a buttered tin, put dabs of butter over the top, and bake for about fifteen minutes in a quick oven. The fish should be well browned on the surface, then slipped out on to a hot dish, and a white or brown sauce, with capers or chopped gherkins, poured around— not over—it. Morue a la Hollandaise. A cod's head and shoulders or a whole fish is best served this way. Boiled in water containing plenty of salt and one or two lemons cut in quarters. Drain it when a skewer will penetrate to the bone with ease. Lay on a folded serviette, place large, mealy, boiled potatoes around it, and tufts of curly parsley. Send pure butter melted to table in a tureen.MAIGRE'' DISHES. 114 Baked Cod. A fair-sized piece out of the middle of a cod. Crimp it, by cutting it through to the bone at regular distances. Sprinkle it liberally, inside and out, with pepper and salt and fresh parsley, squeeze lemon juice over it, la^^- in a baking tin, and bake in moderate oven, with frequent bast- ings of butter. Serve with maitre-d'hotel butter. Halibut Steaks may be baked au gratin,^^ or grilled, or fried, and served with a brown sauce piquante,^^ or they may be done a la Creme. Dissolve an ounce of butter, stir into it a tablespoonful of flour, a little salt and pepper, and add a tumblerful of hot water. Lay the halibut in a buttered shallow stewpp.n, cover it with this sauce, let it simmer gently (covered over) until tender. A small white onion and bunch of sweet herbs should be put in the pan at the same time. AVhen the fish is sufficiently cooked remove it to a dish and keep hot. Take out the onion and flavourings, and''MAIGRE'' DISHES. thicken tlie sauce by adding the yolk of an egg and a few spoonfuls of cream to it; then pour it over the fish. A hard-boiled egg cut up small should be sprinkled over the top of all; or, instead of adding yolk of egg to the sauce, stir in a spoonful of anchovy essence with the cream, and use lobster coral, picked shrimps or prawns for the surface decoration. Salmon Steaks, wrapped in buttered notepaper, and slowly grilled over a clear, hot, but not blazing fire, then eaten with jjetits j^ois^' (see sequel to Chapter III.) are an Epicurean dish. Red mullet enveloped in the same manner— not stinting the butter, by the v/ay—may be either baked or grilled, a.nd are most delicious. When a portion out of the middle of a salmon is the piece chosen, it will be found that hakuig it is a method preferable to the hoiling thereof; although no method can surpass boiling for this king of fish if it be a whole one or a very largo piece. Squeeze a little fresh lemon juice over ifc before baking, and use only the best fresh butter.''MAIGRE'' DISHES. ii6 Mackerel and Herrings, like mosfc oily fisli^ will be found to bake better than boil. When possible the bones should be removed^ the fish rubbed on both sides with lemon juice^ some fresh minced herbs and season- ing, with a few bread-crumbs^ laid on the flat inner side of one fish, another one being laid sandwich fashion over this, then both baked to- gether, using but a very tiny bit of butter, only sufficient to keep the fish from adhering to the tin. There are two ways of piclcUng fish—i.e., for the lighter and more delicate kinds, taking the remaining portions of the fish after boih'ng, lay the meat flakes in a china dish, season lightly, place a few leaves of fennel, tarragon or parsley about, and pour a little white wine vinegar over all. Set aside until required. Pickled mackerel, herrings, etc., after very thorough washing are laid in a pie-dish, sprinkled with salt, several pepper-corns added, and vinegar suflicient to cover them. Baked until they show signs of leaving the bone. In boiling any kind of fish it is better to have the water very nearly at boiling point when the117 MAIGRE'' DISHES. fish is put in^ to bring it to tlie boil as quickly as possible, then to draw the pan aside and simmer until done. Never cook fish until it will not keep its shape ; as soon as a fine skewer will penetrate its thickest part it is done. For using up the remains of fish—when there are any nice pieces—few methods are better than to curry it. The flakes of fish will^ how- ever, only require to be made hot in the curry, not cooked in it. A little vegetable or fruit—apple, rhubarb or gooseberry,— are needed in a fish curry, and eggs boiled hard and sliced, or boiled rice for its garnish. A Mayonnaise of cold boiled or baked fish is another excellent and delicate way of using up the remains. A crisp white-hearted lettuce, the fish broken into small flakes, sliced or chopped boiled egg, and a little good mayonnaise sauce (see Chapter V.) poured over all, and prettily decorated. We have it on the authority of Professor Matthieu Williams that the cliief reason why cheese is found to be difficult of digestion is be-ii8 MAIGRE'' DISHES, cause the mineral properties of tlie milk have beenleffc behind in the whey. To neutralise the acid remaining in cheese^ and to supply the deficiency mentioned^ he advocates the use of a very small quantity of bicarbonate of potash— a proportion of a quarter of an ounce to every pound of cheese. This addition may be made to almost any dish in cheese cookery^ and in this proportion will never be detected. The experiment is well worth the attention of those who^ liking cheese^ are yet unable to as- similate it. Cheese Pudding*, baked or steamed. Butter a small pudding mould, half fill it with thin slices of stale bread and butter—no crust— and between each slice make a layer of grated cheese. One beaten egg, half a small teaspoon- ful of mixed salt and pepper, and enough warm milk to fill the mould, mixed together, a pinch of bicarbonate of potash being stirred into this, then the mould filled up. Cover with a plate, and let the pudding stand for at least an hour before cooking it. Bake in gentle oven for half an hour, steam for three-quarters.MAIGRE'' DISHES. Cheese Fondu. Equal quantities of bread-crumbs and grated cheese; a little salt and pincli of cayenne^ a small nob of butter melted_, one or two beaten eggs, and milk to make it of the consistency of cream. Bake in shallow buttered dish till crisp and brown. Cheese Darioles. Make some dariole shapes from good short paste, fill up with the following mixture, and bake in a quick oven till browned. Yolks of two eggs, white of one, a spoonful of melted butter or cream, two spoonfuls of grated cheese, pinch of potash, pepper and salt, mix together. Savoury Baked Rice. Cree a cupful of whole rice until tender, mix with it half a pint of milk, a beaten egg, pincli of cayenne, and a little salt, and some stale grated cheese of good flavour. Bake this mix- ture until well set in a buttered mould ; when done, turn it on to a dish, and surround it with a brown sauce piquante,^^ or a tomato puree sharply seasoned. Or it may be served cold with a nicely dressed salad.I20 MAIGRE'' DISHES, Cheese Fricassee. Frizzle a sliced Spanish onion in a little but- ter ; when brown, add to it a tablespoonful of brown roux or other brown sauce^ sufficient warm water to make it of the right consistency; season it well. Slice into this some stale Stilton, Cheddar^ or other cheese^ and let it gradually become very hot, but beware of allowing it to boil. Serve very hot, with toast fingers'^ or with boiled cauliflower. Cheese Sandwiches. Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, brown or white ; cut off all crust. Spread grated cheese plentifully between, and pepper them well. Cut into small squares, and garnish with fresh watercress or parsley. Very nice for luncheon or supper, with celery or w^atercress. AnotJier way : Spread cream cheese over the bread in lieu of butter; sprinkle with chopped cress^ pepper lightly, and dast with salt.121 MAIGRE'' DISHES. Cream Cheese Salads. Prepare a little dressing first of all by minc- ing together a small shallot, sprigs of chervil^ thyme, parsley, tarragon, etc., and adding to them a pinch of salt and pepper, with a table- spoonful of lemon juice and three of salad oil; then mix all well together. Separate the leaves of a crisp, well-hearted lettuce; in the hollow of each leaf place a little rocky lump of cream cheese. Pour a sj)oonful of the dressing over, then arrange the leaves singly on a dish. Garnish with red radishes. Cheese Omelette. Break four eggs on to a plate, add to them a pinch of salt and pepper, and a spoonful of grated cheese; beat up with the blade of a knife. Pour the mixture into the omelette pan, which should contain plenty of frothing butter. Stir it once or twice, when it is set sufiiciently, fold one half over, slip it out on to a dish, grate a little more cheese on the top, and serve very hot. If not too stale, the cheese may be sliced, instead of grated.122 MAIGRE'' DISHES. Mushroom Omelette. Eemove tlie skins and stalks from half a dozen mushrooms ; cut them small^ add a muiced shallot and teaspoonful of parsley, pepper and salt, then cook these together in a little butter. Make a plain omelette, lay the cooked mush- rooms on the one half, and fold over. Onion Omelette. Slice very thinly, and frizzle with th^ butter in the omelette pan, two small white onions. When they are brown, pour in the beaten eggs and seasoning', and cook as usual. Sprinkle the surface with a little parsley before bringing to table. Au Fines Hertoes. Beat the eggs as for plain omelettes, and stir into them chopped chives, parsley, chervil, or any herb available. Season and cook as before directed. Omelette au Sucre. Beat the yolks separately in one basin, the whites in another; to the yolks add a table- spoonful of powdered sugar, pinch of salt, and123 MAIGRE'' DISHES. one or two spoonfuls of milk ; stir in tlie wliites, and pour into the frothing butter. When the mixture is set_, fold it over; sprinkling powdered sugar over the top. Omelette au Rhiim. Make a sweet omelette as above; sugar it freely^ and pour a wineglassful of rum or brandy around it^ setting fire to the latter before bring- ing to table. Oeufs a la Neige. Boil a pint of milk with a pinch of salt; a few lumps of sugar; and small piece of fresh lemon rind. When it boils remove the rind; and having ready the whites of two or three eggs beaten to a stiff froth; take up the latter by tablespoon- fuls; drop them carefully in the milk, and poach them thus for a few moments. Lift each snow- ball out on to a dish; and when all are done pour the beaten yolks into the remainder of the milk, and stir until a thickish custard is formed. When the custard is cool; pour it round the snowballs in the dish; and sprinkle a few can- died cherries about. A very pretty dish.MAIGRE'' DISHES. 124 Timbale of Macaroni. Line a round mould witli good short paste ; fill it with, the following preparation^ and put on the cover^ closing the edges with beaten egg, and bake for three-quarters of an hour in moderate oven. Slip it carefully out of the mouldy so as not to disturb the shape. Serve hot. Filling: Make a sauce financiered^ (see Chapter V.)^ and stir into it a quarter of a pound of cooked macaroni. Or a white sauce may be made instead^ the macaroni added, also some grated cheese.CHAPTER X. fvicasBccB an& IRecbauffees* WITHOUT actually coming within tlie range of wliat may be called fried dislies—that is, such as have been treated of under the heading of the Frying-pan —there are sometimes occasions arising in the good menagere's arrangements for her table when she finds it wise to imitate somewhat the example of good King Arthur^s economical spouse, and what they could not eat that day, next day fry/^ by warming up in a delicate fashion, akin to frying, it is true, and yet with a degree of difference. A fricassee par excellence generally means fricassee of chicken, one which has been par- tially cooked expressly to be used in this man- ner ; but although poultry is especially nice, other meats may be made into very savoury dishes in the same way. Many puddings will 135126 FRICASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES. also lend tlieniselves to this sort of warming Poultry should be cut up into small joints^ and all meat is better if small thick pieces are made of it for a fricassee; a sauce or batter is then made as follows : all trimmings and por- tions not nice enough for the dish are boiled in a little stock with one or two onions^ and a few herbs; the fat removed. It is then thickened with a 3^olk of egg mixed with a little flour. Each piece of chicken or meat is dipped in this^ and then well crumbed over^ and carefully fried. The remainder of the sauce may be browned^ a spoonful of good ketchup added^ then poured round the dish of crisp^ brown morsels. Some French cooks would fry the pieces in oil sea- soned Y/ith garlic^ but the above method is more generally practised. Of course this is a superior fricassee. For an ordinary family dish a plain batter w^ould do^ taking care to crumb over the pieces after they had been dipped in it; and if a few vegetables^ such as carrots and parsnips^ wdth small onions,, are also fried until just ten- der and lightly browned^ then put with the bits of meat and a little gravy poured round^ a veryFRICASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES, 127 appetising dish may be obtained at a little cost. The potatoes which accompany this should also be fried. Another nice way^ supposing the menagere has some cold lean beef—not too much cooked —which requires warming up, is to cut it into thin strips and slice some bacon very thinly, laying beef and bacon together; roll them up, fastening with a tiny skewer, and then dip in batter and fry them. A sauce piquante should be served with the rolls. Then, again, meat may be cut into dice, with a little fat bacon, a little cooked vegetable, and chopped onion, and fried in some hot fat in the saute pan. Let this be lightly tossed about until just brown, remove all superfluous fat and dredge a little flour over all; a cupful of stock liquor should be poured in and the saute pan drawn away from the fire, leaving it to cook gently while you make a potato crust, either of cold mashed potatoes or freshly cooked ones. Mix them with an egg and a little milk to make them smooth, then cover a shallow tin plate about half an inch thick with this crust, crimp the edges and bake until brown, when the con- tents of the saute pan should be poured into the middle.128 FRICASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES, Meat^ particularly beef and veal^ may be rechauffe by making a good thick gravy or sauce and laying in it the meat_, cut in thin slices^ to simmer gently till hot through without cooking it again. If ham or bacon be added in this case it should be frizzled first_, then put on the top when the dish is served. Mutton is better made into a ragout. For this a deep pie dish will answer the purpose excellently well—or the daubiere. Potatoes and onions pared and sliced evenly^ the mutton (generally cooked) also sliced and each piece dipped into flour; fill the dish with alternate layers of these^ then pour over some stock liquor made from bones^ and a liberal seasoning of salt and pepper; the dish is then well covered over and put in the oven for an hour and a half. If fresh mutton is used for a ragout^ portions of the breast and trimmings will make the dish quite well enough. Another way of making a ragout is to cut the fresh meat into equal sized pieces_, flour each one^ cut a little salt bacon into strips^ and a variety of vegetables also_, arranging these ingredients in layers in a covered stewpan^ and dredging flour between with salt and pepper; then coverFRJCASSAeS and RECHAUFFEES, 129 with water and leave to cook gently in a corner of the oven for some time—about a couple of hours. A frlcandeau is similar to the above^ only the meat would be left in one piece—a short thick piece is to be preferred^ and if lean it may be larded. A slice of fat pork or bacon should cover the bottom of the stewpan; any vegetables may be used for this, and they should be placed around the piece of meat and over it. A cupful of stock poured over all. When cooked the meat and vegetables should be lifted on to a dish, the gravy skimmed from all fat_, and a little thickening and seasoning added; it should then be allowed to boil a few minutes before pouring over the dish. Nearly all fricandeaux are made after this fashion ; salsify, chicory or sorrel, and spinach, are good vegetables to use for this dish. Curries are well known in England, but the preparations known as ^^a la financiered^ may be somewhat novel. Various small things go to the composition of a financiere sauce—mushrooms, quenelles, cockscombs, sweetbreads sliced, sometimes truffles, giblets, etc.; these are slowly cooked in a rich brown sauce, and a glass of good wine.130 FRICASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES. This is chiefly used ia garnishing entrees and other dishes. Quenelles are small balls made of delicate forcemeat. A veal cutlet a la financiere is cooked as follows : the cutlet is boned, and the lean part larded through with strips of bacon. The bottom of a small stewpan is lined with a slice of bacon, sliced carrot, onion, celery, and a bunch of herbs. The cutlet is laid upon these, and sufficient stock poured over to barely touch the meat; it is then covered with a greased paper, and stewed gently until the cutlet is quite tender. After lifting out, the gravy is strained, the vegetable crushed into a puree, thickened and browned, a glass of sherry is added, and a good pinch of cayenne, some ketchup and seasoning. This is poured round the cutlet, and served very hot. Sweetbreads are very nice, done exactly the same way; always, of course, parboiling them first. An excellent and cheap way to rechauffer a very small remainder of cold meat is to mince it finely, add bread-crumbs and a little piquante sauce or gravy sufficient to moisten well. A small vegetable marrow is pared, and the in-FRICASSEES AND RECHAUFFEES. 131 side emptied^ and then staffed witli the above mince^ a little fat poured over_, and then baked in the oven. A large turnip may be used in the same way when marrows are out of season.-A CHAPTER XI. Some little U6e& Degetables* THERE are some few vegetables having a very extensive use in continental house- holds^ which are scarcely ever^ if at all^ used in England. Yet they are just as easy to culti- vate as any other^ and have just as valuable hygienic properties. First among them we must place Sorrel. Except among the enlightened few who can boast a patch in their own garden^ it is almost unknown^ and^ save at Covent Garden_, is scarcely ever seen on the market. On the Continent it is cultivated in quantities; no little cottage garden but has its sorrel-bed^ and sum- mer or winter it appears on the table in various forms—as a soup^ or a puree to eat with meat^ or a sauce—and it is frequently mixed with its sister plant^ the spinach, when making a vegetable dish. 1?3SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. 133 Quite lately^ when seeking for some in London for use at a demonstration^ nothing less than a strike could be had^ and from the Central Market only—at least ten times as much as the quantity required. The wild sorrel which one meets with in the country is not a bad substitute, but the flavour of the cultivated kind is so superior, every garden ought to possess a few plants. It is sown in drills like spinach; but once established, will come up year after year with faithful regularity, and if cut down every few weeks will yield several cuttings during the season. It may also take rank as one of Nature's medicines, and help to lessen the doctor's bills, being an anti-scorbutic, simple and effective, an excellent blood-purifier, especially in spring- time. Full directions for making sorrel sonp are to be found at the end of this chapter; but here it may be well to mention that the only ingre- dients are sorrel and a couple of young onions, white bread, water, butter, and the of an egg. The egg corrects the acidity of the sor- rel, the bread gives substance to the soup, and134 SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. the butter smootliness. As very little liquid is needed in wliicli to cook sorrel^ it is better^ wlien intending to make a puree to serve with meat_, to use a little butter in place of water. When thoroughly cooked^ the sorrel should be lightly beaten with a wooden spoon^ v/ell-sea- soned; then it is ready to serve either in the middle of the dish or to hand round with it. A few leaves of sorrel^ lightly chopped^ give piquancy to a salad. A few leaves of sorrel may also be added to other vegetable soups, but never when there is any meat in the pot, as their acidity will tend to harden it. Leaving the sorrel, let us consider its sister, spinach. Although we have no fault to find either with the growth or the supply of spi- nach, still it is in only a few better-class houses that one ever meets with the dainty dishes of spinach which are its common forms of presentation on continental tables. It is of all green vegetables the most decep- tive, shrinking to but a fraction of its original bulk when cooked. It is also one of the dirtiest and grittiest of vegetables, and needs washing in several waters. Let it drain thoroughly, and pick out all stalky pieces. Our French friends goSOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES, 135 fartlier tlian this: tliey think it not too much trouble to slired each leaf. Staying once at a country hotel in France^ we were much amused and interested to watch the old grandmother^ as she sat in her chair^ doing nothing else all day but prepare the vegetables for the table or the kitchen. Verily^ we decided^ it needed the patience of old age to prepare spinach as she did it; but truly^ when it came to table^ it was as nearly perfect as could be. The leaves should be thrown into hoillng water, with plenty of salt in it—this keeps them a bright green colour. Boil fast for ten or fifteen minutes, then drain and press till firm and dry. In this state most English people consider spinach is quite done; French cooks think differently. It is now ready to be manipulated in any form desired. For instance, Spinach en Croustades is a pretty way of serving it as a vegetable dish alone, or even as an entree. The croustade is a thick slice of stale white bread, hollowed in the centre, and shaped like a dish with a rim. This is fried to a golden brown in clear fat (if a joint of meat were roasting it might be done in the dripping-tin). Melt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan,136 SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES, put in the cooked spinacli;, add a little pepper^ heat well through, beat lightly with a fork, then fill the croustades, and chop a little cooked beetroot to garnish the top. A puree of spinach with a garnish of poached eggs, or an egg boiled hard, then cut into strips, and a few strips of beetroot interspersed to give colour, is a great improvement to the vege- table plainly boiled. Some thin slices of ham frizzled and placed as a border round a puree of spinach, also makes a very nice dish. Excellent also is Sj)iiiach a la Creme. After melting a small lump of butter in the stewpan, and putting in the spinach to simmer, stir in the beaten yolk of an egg, twopennyworth of cream, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Let it nearly boil, then pour into a rather deep dish, and place fingers of toasted bread round the edge. This is one of the daintiest dishes known. It has been mentioned before that French cooks often make a fond or foundation to a dish of meat with a puree of spinach or sorrel; but it must be remembered that no cream or eggs should be used then, and less butter, sub- stituting the gravy from the meat instead.SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. 137 Among the lesser known vegetables we may also place watercress. It may sound paradoxical to say that no people consume watercress more largely than do Londoners^ and yet to call it a little known vegetable ; yet apart from eating it in its natu- ral state, its capabilities are almost unknown. Watercress Soup is undreamt of by many people, but it is simple and nourishing, and meets with the approbation of all who try it. As a salad, too, it is much appreciated, either alone or with lettuce, and as a sauce to accom- pany roast mutton it is frequently used in French houses. Chopped small and laid be- tween thin slices of bread and butter for sand- wiches, it is getting to be much favoured at the afternoon tea-table. Be it remembered, however, that although watercress is most valuable as a medicine, being a gentle stimulant, and strengthening to the nerves, yet from the nature of its growth it requires most careful cleansing, or we may imbibe more harmful properties than we gain good from eating it. The expressed juice of fresh watercress taken by a teaspoonful at a time, has been found in- valuable in cases of throat disease. The Ger-138 SOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. man pliysician^ Haller_, said that he had seen patients in deep decline cured by Hying ahnost entirely on this plant. The best specimens are those with the bronzed leaves. Daring the winter and early spring is perhaps the best season for water- cress, but they are good and acceptable all the year round. Full directions for making the watercress soup will be found at the end of this chapter. Watercress sauce is made by stewing chopped watercress in butter for ten minutes, then add- ing a pinch of salt, the same of pepper, the same also of mustard^ and a spoonful of vin- egar. Beat till quite smooth with a wooden spoon^ then add the gravy from the roasting joint. This is served in a sauce-tureen, and is a pleasant change from ordinary gravy. Almost all the dishes mentioned might come under the category of kitchen-physic,—for one of the first essentials in sickroom diet is to please the eye as well as the palate. Sorrel Soup {Potage a VOseille). Having carefully washed two large handfuls of sorrel, dry it, then chop it finely. Chop also a medium-sized spring onion. Melt anSOME LITTLE USED VEGETABLES. 139 ounce of butter^ stew the onion and sorrel in this (in a covered stewpan) for about half an hour. Meanwhile_, bring a quart of water to boiling point in the soup-pot^ throw into it a slice of stale white bread cut into dice (no crust)^ and let it boil till the sorrel is ready. Add that next^ then a teaspoonful of salt^ half one of pepper^ and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Let all boil up once^ then pour into the tureen. A pinch of dried herbs or just one grate of nutmeg may be added then. Watercress Soup. The foundation of this soup is best made from a puree of haricot beans. They should have been soaked overnight,, then boiled for two or three hours^ or until they will rub through a sieve. Chop the watercress^ and cook it in butter with an onion also chopped^ as the sorrel was done. Add enough boiling water to the haricot puree to bring it down to the consistency of cream; then stir in the watercress^ etc.^ and any other green herb you may possess. Just before serving stir in a tablespoonful of cream^ and salt and pepper to season it well. A pint of haricots should be sufficient for a quart of good soup.CHAPTER XII. 140 Xeefts ani> ®nions. LTHOUGrH some attention has been paid -^--^ to the uses of leeks and onions in the pre- vious chapters, yet for their great medicinal and useful properties thej merit more particular study. The wonderful faculty v/hich onions possess of absorbing disease germs ought to be written in letters of gold before the eyes of every householder. Merely hanging in a net they will purify an apartment, and a string of onions sus- pended from the ceiling preserved the inmates of a whole cottage from being attacked by cholera, when the scourge was devastating the whole of the neighbourhood. Especially in cases of that fell disease diph- theria have they great power. A dish of raw onions sliced and set in the sick-room, will draw away the disease and give ease to the sufferer;141 LEEKS AND ONIONS. as their odour gives out tliey should be replaced by fresh ones. Poison of any kind will discolour an onion. If one be placed in a dish of mush- rooms about whose orthodoxy there is felt the slightest doubt^ the suspicion may be quickly removed or proved thereby^ as the onion will turn black if they are unwholesome. They are a stimulant also^ rousing and aid- ing digestion. Many persons who complain of onions being difficult of digestion would find the objection removed — or considerably lessened — if they were cooked thus : cooking them quickly at the first start, then drawing aside and covering well^ allow them to simmer gently for some time ; this draws out the juice, which can be poured off. If treated thus, they will hardly disagree with the most fastidious. To confess to a liking for onions is—sad to say—considered vulgar, but our French friends are notable as proclaiming their weakness for both onions and garlic by the scent they carry about with them. Although certainly related to onions leel^^s are not the same, nor even similar. They are more prized in Wales and Scotland than in England, and are very highly esteemed in Prance, where142 LEEKS AND ONIONS. tliey are used as a vegetable alone_, and never upon any account are tliey omitted from the potagere. They have a direct action upon the liver^ and in cases of liver complaints (very often also for rheumatism) they are ordered by the doctor, either in the form of a tea or tisane, or as a poultice. The tea made by boiling leeks in ^Yater may be made very much more palatable for an invalid if a teaspoonful of Bovril or Liebig's Extract be dissolved in each cupful. A liberal seasoning of salt and pepper also helps both taste and tonic. For broth from beef or mutton it is better to tie the leeks together in bunches^ and serve them thus among the other vegetables round the dish^—or^ better stilly if there be any quan- tity of them^ to serve them separately in a vege- table dish,, pouring white sauce over them; they are both wholesome and delicious if treated thus. During the winter months they should be kept covered with fresh earth. A poultice of fresh-boiled leeks laid between flannel is a remedy which certainly comes under the category of kitchen physic. It is a remedy^143 LEEKS AND ONIONS, however, mucli trusted by continental doctors for any inflammation of the liver or kidneys, and has the power of quickly bringing out copious perspiration. The mild flavour of leeks makes them much preferred in nearly all soups — they combine with other flavours, but will not overpower, as the onion too frequently does. Both leeks and onions make excellent soups ; if a little clear broth is at hand to use instead of water, of course the soup will be richer for it; bread forms the thickening quality—a slice of Y>^hite bread cut into dice and thrown into the boiling liquor a few minutes before serving it. There is a very simple soup known as drunk- ard^s broth/^ made by boiling sliced onions in water, which is said to be very valuable and grateful to persons recovering from intoxica- tion. A pinch of mixed sweet herbs is a great addition to leek or onion soup. A large white onion, with the core removed and its place filled with a savoury stuffing, then placed in a covered stewpan with a little drip- ping, cooked in the oven for an hour, and a little thick brown gravy poured over it on the dish.144 LEEKS AND ONIONS. makes a very savoury and economical little plat for a cold winter's evening. The stuff- ing may be made from any cold meat, minced, and mixed witli sharp sauce. Large white onions, boiled till tender, then drained, sliced thinly into a shallow tin, a few nobs of butter placed over them, a liberal pow- dering of pepper and salt, then some stale cheese shaved as thinly as possible, and a few bread-crumbs sprinkled over all, placed in a quick oven for ten minutes, makes another cheap savoury. A small onion may be introduced with advan- tage into many preparations of meat, fish, poultry, etc., where its presence is not needful nor perhaps desired, because it will help to bring out the flavour of the other condiments, and if sufficiently small, itself pass unnoticed. For sauces and fine dishes French cooks much prefer to use shallots, their flavour is more deli- cate. A clove of garlic, too, although a liking for its searching aroma certainly has to be ac- quired, is yet most suited for use in many made- up dishes. If the salad-bowl be rubbed all over inside with garlic, before breaking the lettuce or cressLEEKS AND ONIONS. 145 into it^ it not only obviates the necessity of using any onion in the dressing, but gives a piquant, elusive flavouring as difficult to fix as delicious to taste. Chives, too, belong to the onion family. They are worthy of much more popular use and culti- vation than they can boast at present: the root is bulbous, and groves up early in the spring, ready prepared for the omelettes au fines herbes,'^ the soupe or salade printanier ; and for an addition to forcemeat or stuffing they are unrivalled. Thus v^e see that useful and valuable as onions are they cannot well do everything, as in this country they are unfortunately generally ex- pected to. In many greengrocers' shops,—-large ones too —and on the costers' stalls in the street, leeks are a rarity, and always expensive; shallots still rarer, garlic and chives unknown. Even in the country they are seen in but few gardens; and it is no uncommon thing to be asked what is their use. This is a state of affairs which needs remedying; we are conservative to our own loss, and, as a nation, remarkably slow to learn, or add to our knowledge. p.c. LCHAPTER XIII. lEomatoea. FROM being one of the least known and most expensive vegetables^ tomatoes have become very common and plentifal_, bought and eaten on the streets as freely as cherries or apples^ and used in the kitchen almost as much as we can desire. Perhaps never better or more beneficial than when eaten raw^ still, to be really nice thus^ they ought to be freshly-gathered from the plant; and few persons are able to do this. Next to eating them rav/ we may rank eating them marinees/^ or en salade/^ viz._, slicing them in a dish, and dressing with salt and pepper, vinegar and oil. In Parisian restaurants they are served thus all the summer through, and very refreshing and acceptable they are. A small onion sliced with them is an agreeable U6147 TOMATOES, addition. They are even better than cucumbers if dressed in this manner and served with cold meats. A puree of tomatoes may be made exactly in the same way as the puree of sorrel or spinach^ and served with hot meat. With veal^ poultry^ sweetbreads^ mutton cutlets^ or pigeons halved and done on the grill, a puree of tomatoes^ highly seasoned and made fairly thick, is a great addition to the dish. The same puree is invaluable as an aid in using up the remains of cold meat. The latter may be merely sliced and laid in the puree to become hot through, or the slices may be lightly frizzled first. In winter the tinned tomatoes will answer the purpose excellently well, therefore it is well to have them in reserve : an un-appetising dish, of cold meat may be quickly transformed into a delicious savoury by their aid at very short notice. An edging of well-boiled rice is a pretty finish to the dish. ^ Plenty of seasoning—especially pepper— should be used with tomatoes, a pinch of cayenne is an advantage.148 TOMATOES, Tomato Soup is one of the roost delicious and most easily prepared. For this, slice the tomatoes into a little melted butter in a deep stewpan; let them cook gently at least half an hour, and meanwhile cut up a carrot into rounds an eighth of an inch in thickness, also slice an onion thinly, and frizzle these till tender through in a separate vessel. Next strain the tomatoes through a sieve to keep out skins and seeds, return the pulp to the stewpan, add boiling water to make sufficient quantity ; mix a dessert-spoonf al of potato flour with a little cold water, and stir this in, then add salt, pepper, and pinch of cay- enne, according to taste ; let the soup boil up once, then stir in the carrots and onion. It may simmer gently for a time, or be served at once, as is required. A few ^fried croutons of bread should be put at the bottom of the tureen. This soup should be very hot and piquant. With the same puree of tomatoes before men- tioned as a foundation, we may, with little trouble, make a truly vegetarian dish, and one which is very pretty to look at. After making the puree smooth, thick, and savoury, pour it149 TOMATOES. into a fancy dish^ and keep hot while the ^^snow- balls ^' are made. Boil a pint of milk with a pinch of salt; beat to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs also with a pinch of salt^ then drop this snow by small spoonfuls into the boiling milk; they will swell out^ and take but a few moments to cook. Lift them carefully out, let all the milk drain from them, then set on the red puree, and put a sprig of green parsley in the centre of each. This is called Snowballs in Tomatoes/^ and is a very effective dish. Stuffed Tomatoes are great favourites with many people. The tomatoes used in this way should be of a fair size. Remove the core and a small portion of the inside, then fill up with forcemeat, sausage- meat, or any nice mince well seasoned. Place them in a well buttered baking-tin, sprinkle a few bread raspings over the top of each, then bake for ten or fifteen minutes, but do not allow the tomatoes to fall. Tomatoes are very good if simply baked with a little butter, and salt and pepper, but if done an gratin they are better still.TOAfA TOES. After buttering tlie bottom of the dish^ sprin- kle upon it a few bread-crumbs^ finely chopped parsley^ and chives or shallot^ then the tomatoes —the core removed—and cover with the same ingredients, having a few more bits of butter for the top of all. Bake for twenty minutes. Again, with a dish of cauliflower and maca- roni, if dressed in the usual manner, and a puree of tomatoes used in place of white sauce, the change would be found very acceptable. A sliced tomato is a great improvement to any salad, and the smaller ones should always be set on one side for decorative purposes. In a cool place they will keep for some time. For a cold dish, and a very refreshing one, a Tomato Mayonnaise is excellent. If possible, skin the tomatoes, cut them in half, set them in a glass dish, and put on the ice or in a very cold place for half an hour. Make the mayonnaise with the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs and a tablespoonfiil of vinegar, beaten together to a cream, a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of made mustard with a pinch of cayenne. Add by degrees a table- spoonful of olive oil. Spread a little of thisTOMATOES. mayonnaise over each half tomato, let it cool still longer, and before bringing to table place tiny pieces of ice amongst them in the dish. A Conserve of Tomatoes to keep in small jars or pots is very useful for making savoury sandwiches for afternoon tea- parties. To three pounds of tomatoes allow one pound of loaf sugar, an ounce of ground ginger, a pinch of cayenne, a teaspoonfiil of salfc, the peel and juice of two lemons. Boil the tomatoes first for twenty minutes, then rub them through a sieve; boil next the pulp with the other in- gredients for twenty minutes after they have come to boiling point. Take out the peel of the lemon, pour the mixture into jars, and cover tightly when quite cold. Keep in a cool, dry place. It is difficult to bottle ovcan. tomatoes at home. For those who are able to procure the right sort of bottles—with good screw-tops—and who have a large quantity of tomatoes to use, it should be remembered that the secret of keep- ing well depends upon the care of the cook in having the bottles heated until they can scarcely be touched, the tomatoes hoiUng hotTOMATOES. 152 when they are put in^ and screwing down the tops at once, before any heat can have evapo- rated. The tomatoes should be brought to boiling-point in salted water^ and drained before they have time to break. Tomatoes form an excellent addition to an Omelette. They should be cut into quarters, and slightly sprinkled with pepper^ then frizzled in the butter before the eggs are added. The applications and uses of this valuable vegetable-fruit, and the combinations which a clever cook may produce by its aid^ are very numerous^ indeed well-nigh endless.153 CHAPTER XIV. /ll>U6broom6. IN town muslirooins rank as do tomatoes amongst the additional luxuries of the table; but in tbe country, where in their season they are to be had for the gathering, they form one of the poor man's few delicacies. Most people recognise only two distinct classes of them, viz., mushrooms and toadstools, and, through ignorance, many excellent varieties are passed by as unfit for food. The late Dr. Lan- kester, an eminent authority on foods of all kinds, enumerates no less than forly different species of mushrooms, all of which are good to eat. Chanterelles are much esteemed in France, while the delicate morel is there much more frequently met with than in England ; although if sought for at the beginning of summer it154 MUSHROOMS, may sometimes be found in our orchards and woods. Another good authority on foods says : Have nothing at all to do with them^ until you are an excellent judge between the true and the false/' This advice resembles that of the mother who cautioned her son not to venture near the water until he had learned how to SAvim ! Although we can scarcely be too cautious in our use of all fungi, stilly as they are an excel- lent and delicious article of diet^when good^ we need not be martyrs to our fears. A peeled white onion thrown into the pot while they are cooking will speedily confirm or dispel any fears which may be entertained about them^ so also will a silver spoon, for if poison lurks within the vessel it will quickly turn the silver black. It is chiefly the people who live in the country^ and have the good fortune to gather for them- selves, who have much need to exercise caution; in town we are mostly supplied with mushrooms grown from spawn in mushroom houses or frames, and have little to fear. On the other hand, country people have full benefit of the flavour155 MUSHROOMS. and succulence of a freslily-gathered musliroom whicli it is difficult to surpass. The best musli- rooms are most plentiful in August and Septem- ber; tliey grow in open sunny fields after low-lying fogs or heavy dews. The upper surface is a dirty white^ par complaisance pearl colour^ and the under surface salmon or light- brown in colour. They should emit a faint wholesome smell. The Scripture says of the slothful man that he roasteth not what he took in hunting.^^ The same reproach may be ap- plied to those who neglect or despise the good gifts whicli Providence places within their reach. A plentiful crop of mushrooms brings many additional pounds into the pockets of the in- habitants of some localities. For the benefit of those who have the good fortune to possess or meet with a plentiful supply a hint as to their preservation for winter use may prove acceptable. They must be taken^ while perfectly fresh^ and skinned^ removing the stalk also^—then laid on thick white paper^ not touching each other^ and dried in a very slow oven. They should take several hours^ and when quite dry should be threaded on a fine string and hnng up in aMUSHROOMS. dry place. They will shrink considerably^ but only require to be placed in cold gravy or liquor^ then warmed up^ to swell out to their original size. Mushrooms a la Proven gale is a way of treat- ing them which is very popular in the South of France. In a small^ shallow frying- or saute-pan place sufficient salad-oil to cover the bottom to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Let the oil come to boil- ing point, then slice into it a small white onion, add a tablespoonful of finely minced and dry parsley. Next put in the mushrooms—small flat ones are preferable—the skin and stalk removed ; saute them for five minutes, then pour oflf about half the oil, dust flour over the mushrooms, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add a dash of vinegar, toss them well about for a minute longer, then serve over fried croutons, or crisp thin toast. For mushrooms a la Poulette, pick out the small white or button ones. After removing peel and stalk, drop them into boiling salt and water, and cook till just tender through. Drain on a cloth, then place in a shallow dish and cover with the following sauce : an ounce of butter melted, and the same quantity of fineMUSHROOMS, 157 dry flour mixed smoothly with it^ or half the quantity of potato flour^ a pinch of salt^ and a tumblerful of boiling water; boil this well; then draw aside and stir in the yolk of an egg and two spoonfuls of cream. Pour this sauce over the mushrooms^ and garnish the dish with parsley. Mushrooms au Graiin are one of the most favoured entrees at grand banquets^ — so favoured indeed that it is generally found neces- sary to provide twice the quantity of this dish in proportion to that of any other entree. They are prepared exactly in the following method. A gratin dish is covered at the bottom with an ounce of butter broken into bits_, finely minced chives^ chervil and parsley are sprinkled on to thiS; then a few bread-crumbs; next the peeled mushrooms_, stalks uppermost,, the bread- crumbs and herbs sprinkled over, with half a teaspoonful of pepper^ and a glassful of white wine poured over them^ and more melted butter last of all. Baked in the oven for twenty minutes^ then brought to table in the same dish. Large flap mushrooms are very delicious if steeped in a marinade of salad oil^ minced158 MUSHROOMS, lierbs and onion^ then drained^ sprinkled with pepper and salt^ and grilled quickly over a clear lire, first on one side, then on the other, for three or four minutes. One of these, served on a piece of crisp toast, might tempt tlie appetite of the most fastidious. The deep cup-shaped ones filled with a force-meat stuffing, then baked in a dripping-tin and served in pretty paper cases, make another nice entree. Mushroom Omelette is a delicacy which needs but to be tried to establish its reputation for ever. Whatever size or shape they be, the mushrooms must be peeled and cut into strips, then frizzled till tender in a little butter, dust them with flour to slightly thicken the juice, and sprinkle liber- ally with salt and pepper. Make the omelette in its own pan, according to the directions pre- viously given; slide it on to a hot dish, cover half of it with the mushrooms, then fold over the other half, thus securing the brown side for the upper surface. For Musliroom Keicliu'p^ than which there is no more useful ketchup for kitchen use, the follow-159 MUSHROOMS. ing is an excellent recipe. All broken musli- rooms^ parings and stalks (if clean), should be placed in a shallow earthen vessel and well covered with salt. Let them stand for three days, stirring occasionally. Then draw off the juice, and to every pint allow half a teaspoonf ul of ginger, the same of powdered mace, allspice, and cayenne. Put in a stone jar, set in a pan of water, boil hard for six hours^ pour into bottles when cool.160 CHAPTER XV. FRUIT Salad is most certainly an almost -^^-^ unknown delicacy on English tables. It is most frequently met with in Parisian and Viennese restaurants, wliere the most critical gourmets do congregate. Perhaps at its best when made with the wild wood-strawberries^ plentiful enough in the woods about Paris^ it is also exceedingly good made with the smaller kinds of cultivated strawberries, with raspberries, or raspberries and fine ripe currants, with sliced apricots and peaches, pineapples, and oranges. Next to a salad of wild strawberries, one of oranges, with a sprinkling of ground almonds, walnuts and grated cocoanut, must take the place of honour. The sine qua non of a successful salad is thatFRUIT ''EN SALADE'' AND GLACE^ i6i its components should be dvij before tlie dress- ing is added to them, whether the salad be composed of a vegetable or fruit. Next to dryness, we must insist upon perfect ripeness when fruit is in question. Hard or un- ripe morsels will spoil any dish. A crystal salad-bowl, or failing that, a deep compote dish, is best for the purpose. Pure white castor sugar, and wine suited to the kind of fruit used, forms the dressing.'^ This should be poured over the fruit at least an hour before it is brought to table. In the case of wild strawberries, plenty of sugar and a little good Claret is used, but for garden strawberries Port is preferable to Claret. With apricots, pineapple, or peaches, use a light sweet wine, like Sherry or Madeira; and for an orange salad a raisin wine (Muscatel) is best suited. For a pound of fruit allow four ounces of sugar, and half a pint of wine. Turn the fruit over occasionally after the dressing has been added, that it may absorb it thoroughly. Oranges should have all the peel removed, especially all the white part, divide them iu their natural divisions and press the pips out. P.G M /i62 FRUIT ''EN SALADE'' AND ''GLACE: Skin the walnuts and pound tliem^ the almonds likewise^, grate the cocoanut. A tablespoonful of liqueur, say Prunelle or Kummelj will be an improvement to any fruit salad. Very ripe blackberries, with a little less sugar, and Port wine or Roussillon, or instead a sm.all tumblerful of Blackberry Cordial and a table- spoonful of Brandy, makes a very wholesome dessert dish. Fruit may be kept fresh for a length of time by putting it into stone jars and covering with a mixture of honey and water. When required for use, take them out, wash in clean water, and they will be almost as good as freshly-gathered. A very easy way of candying fresh fruit such as ripe currants in bunches, grapes, etc., is done by taking them by the stalk, dipping into a tumbler containing water and the white of an egg, then rolling them in fine castor sugar and laying on sheets of note paper to dry, either in the sun or in a cool oven. To candy fruit properly, however, is a much more serious process.FRUIT ''EN SALADE'' AND GLACEP 163 A syrup of boiling sngai% boiled to tlie fourbli or candied degree^ that is for at least half an hour^ is the firsfc essential. Place the sugar^—finest loaf—in an enamelled saucepan; to half a pound of sugar allow half a tumblerful of water. Boil until the syrup is so stiff it will crack if drawn out into threads. Supposing 3^ou are candying some quarters of oranges; after taking out the pips^ thread them on a fine string, and passing the string over a hook hold them in the boiling syrup for half a minute. Then suspend them to drain and dry. Greengages, apricots^ cherries, etc., require to remain in the syrup a little longer, that they may be cooked through, then they may be rolled in powdered sugar, and dried in a cool oven. Fine scarlet rhubarb cut in strips of two or three inches in lengthy dropped into this syrup for a few moments, then drained and ^^frested, makes a pretty sweetmeat. It is by no means impossible for the amateur cook to turn out a very pretty dish of glazed fruits for an extra occasion, if needs be, although as glace fruit can be bought so reason-164 FRUIT ''EN SALADE'' AND GLAC&! ably now, few amateurs care to attempt the process. Marrons glaces/' the favourite sweetmeat of the few who are able to indulge their liking, are made in this wise {n.h, the same process is employed for Ghinois glaces,^^ or Chinese green- gages, and for crystallized figs) : The chest- nuts are boiled in water until they are quite cooked, then carefully peeled and thrown into cold water to become hard again. In half an hour^s time they are placed in boiling syrup, the which has been boiled till quite stiff. The vessel containing them is then set on one side. The next day the syrup (and chestnuts) is brought to boiling point, then put aside to cool again. This process is repeated four days in succession; at the end of the time the chestnuts or fruit will be found to have absorbed nearly all the syrup, and must then be lifted out on to dishes, and dried off. The process of preserving fruit by evaporation is best performed by means of the mechanical evaporators when possible to obtain these machines; still, by carefully drying in a cool oven (a brick oven is best for the purpose), much valuable fruit might be saved for winter useFRUIT ''EN SALADE'' AND ''GLACE:' 165 whicli is often left to rot on the trees because it will not pay for gathering and turning into preserve. Only sound fruit should be dried^ and it should be gathered on a dry day^ laid out separately on sheets of paper or tins_, and dried in the oven when the fire has become low. It will require soaking in water before using. A word of caution as to the kind of sugar which should be used with fruity will not be out of place here. Beet sugars, because of the impossibility of ensuring their perfect dryness, however highly refined, should be avoided; also because they absorb moisture easily and so cause fermentation. For all syrups, jams, jellies, etc., use only pure cane sugar; although slightly more expensive it well repays in the end. Boiling sugar quickly passes from one degree to another, and in preserving it is important to remember this fact and not add the sugar until the fruit has been first well cooked. It is the fruit that requires coohlng, and not the sugar. It is a great improvement to jellies to firsti66 FRUIT ''EN SALADE'' AND ''GLACE: lieat the sugar in shallow vessels in the oven^ before putting into the juice; it should be so hot the hand can scarcely touch it. Put into the juice when that has boiled for twenty minutes, boil up once more after the sugar is dissolved, then pour into liot jars at once. It will quickly jelly, and be a better colour than if made after the old method, besides retaining better the flavour of the fruit.CHAPTER XVI. Bnttees anb 3Entremet0* AVERY large variety of dislies may be classed under tlie above title^ and it is in tbe pre- paration of these dislies almost more tban in those of any other class that the really experi- enced cook will best exercise the true principle of cookery-economy. As a rule the entree is served before the joint; the entremet follows it. No Parisian little dinner would be con- sidered complete without one entree at least; and although it may seem a strong statement to msike, it is certainly true^ that the materials out of which many of the most tempting of these entrees are made are those which in Eng- lish hotels and even in private houses would be thrown to the dogs^ or into the fowl-pen. It is important to strive as far as possible to 1G7168 ENTREES AND ENTREMETS, make entrees the means o£ utilising any remains whicli may be left. A nice variety can be made in this way only. Another important point to observe is the appearance of the entree. This class of dishes may be regarded as one of the higher branches of the profession^ and had better not be at- tempted by the apprentice. One very common mistake made by inexperienced cooks in serv- ing entrees is putting too much on one dish. '^Little and good^^ is an excellent maxim to follow. It is very desirable to have certain things at hand in readiness when making entrees^ or indeed any other class of savoury dishes ; viz., aromatic spices^ dried herbs, and a little stock of sauces and seasonings. Once these are set up in the kitchen it is easy to keep them renewed, and they prove invaluable on many occasions, well repaying what little trouble their preparation entails. An excellent aromatic preparation is made as follows: — take equal quantities, say half an ounce, of mace, nutmegs cloves, marjoram, thyme^ basil, and bay leaves, a whole ounce of peppercorns. Have all these thoroughly dried, and pounded, and sifted, and put in a glass-ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 169 stoppered bottle for use. This will keep good for years. The preparation of herbs lias been described in a previous chapter. It is not so much a question of expense in the preparation of entrees as of management. A good cook will never be embarrassed by having too much cold meat on hand while she has entrees to provide for. By a little skill she will be able to turn out the most charming dishes ; even a small piece of the loin of mutton may be served half a dozen different ways. One of the most commonly known of entree dishes is perhaps croquettes or krome- skies/^ and yet how rarely are they nicely made and served. The secret^ or rather the principle^ to be ob- served in making these is the same as in boiling or roasting meat; viz.^ to form a crust on the outside to retain the moisture and juices within. It is generally admitted that these are far nicer when the inside is moist and juicy^ instead of hard. A good way to ensure their being so is to moisten the mince with gravy made from bones^ which will jelly when it is cold. The mince may then be made quite tliin^ and allowed to get quite cold before being shaped into little balls or cu tlets^ and then twice coatedI70 ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. with egg and breacl-crambs^ and dropped into boiling fat. The croquettes are thns surrounded with a crusty and if carefully lifted out the moment they are sufficiently cooked^ the inside gravy w^ill be preserved. It may pJmost be taken as a criterion of the skill of the cook when as soon as the fork of the eater is inserted into the ball the inside gushes out^ as it certainly requires some prac- tice to attain to this. Almost any kind of cold meat may be made into entrees^ but cold remains of poultry, or calf's head^ or game may be made to look very appetising if cut small, nicely shaped, and then each piece slightly floured and dipped into good batter, when they should be fried a beantiful golden colour. They will look like fritters, and should be lightly piled on a silver dish if possible, and garnished with parsley. Another way of nsing up these remains is to make a salmi.'^ To do this, the pieces of meat should be sliced thinly and all trimmings and bones be stewed to make sauce. The liquor, when they have cooked long enough, should be strained and slightly thickened, then liberally seasoned and a glass of good wineENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 171 added to it; Madeira is tlie most suitable^ tliougli slierry Avill do. The pieces of meat have simply to be warmed up in this sauce. When making a ^Miash from cold meat it is always preferable to make the sauce or gravy first^ then add the minced meat, and allow it to simmer only for a few minutes before serving. When made of fresh meat the hash will be found to be much richer and more tender if cooked in the oven slowly. A nice little dish of hash^ with two or three delicately poached eggs laid upon it, and some slender strips of toasted bread round the edge, and a little finely chopped parsley sprinkled over all, will be found to make a very pretty and economical entremet. Tomates farcis is another economical entremet. Smooth, round tomatoes not over ripe should be chosen, and a small piece be cut out of the middle, and a little of the inside removed; its place should be filled with a little forcemeat, or sausage meat alone will do very nicely. Place the tomatoes in a tin with small bits of butter, to bake gently until tender through. Nice kidney potatoes may be treated in theENTREES AND ENTREMETS 172 same waj^ and will be found very excellent also. Eggs a la bonne femme make another pretty entree. Take six large eggs^ boil them ten minutes^ when cool enough carefully re- move the shells^ and with a sharp knife split them in half; remove the yolk from each half and the tip of the point, so that they may stand firmly. With the yolk mix a little finely minced ham and beetroot or boiled chicken, a little drop of some piquante sauce, and then fill up the hollows, piling the mixture a little higher. Place the eggs on a bed of curly let- tuce or parsley. Omelets and vol-au-vents are served as entree dishes. The latter, although properly belonging to the confectioner's profession, and generally considered to be quite beyond the skill of the home cook, may yet be fairly well imitated for any extra occasion. The exterior or crust is made of the very finest puff paste moulded into the required shape, and the interior hollow is preserved while the crust is cooking by filling it with soft bread; the upper crust is laid over the bread, but the edges are kept from sticking to the sides.ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 173 When the crusfc is baked the bread is re- moved and the proper filling takes its place, then the upper crast is laid over and glazed with white of egg. This filling may be varied according to fancy—a financiere ragout, sweet- breads, oysters, lobsters, shrimps, etc. When fish is used, the top of the vol-au-vent should be ornamented with the same or similar small fish. Whatever is chosen for the filling should be cooked in a sauce, thick, rich, and suited to its individual character: oysters, shrimps, fillets of sole, etc., in thick white sauce with cream ; ragouts of meat, poultry, etc., in brown sauce. Button mushrooms are a great addition to the last-named. Sweet vol-au-vents, made of fruit cooked as for a compote or jam placed in the hollow and a whipped cream over the top, are very de- licious. The following short lists may be useful as a guide to what are really orthodox and reliable entrees. A few selected entremets are also ap- pended.174 ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. Meat Entrees, Beef croquettes^ olives^ croustades. ,^ persillades^ miroton, curried, minced^ grilled and fricassee. Mutton cutlets a la sauce piqiiante, ,y „ a la sauce soiihise. ,y au jardiniere, grilled^ etc. Sheep's kidneys sautes, with muslirooms. tails a la sauce tomate. brains a la sauce pouletlc, J, feet, stuffed^ fried^ etc. LamVs head a la sauce poulefte, cutlets aux fines licrhes. Veal cutlet aux pet its pois, fricassee. ,y breast en hlanquette, witli capers. „ sweetbreadS; fricassee^ a la sauce tomate. Calf's liver, baked en fricandeau, fricassee. Calf's bead a la poulette, etc. Pork cutlets a la sauce poivrade, grilled. „ a la sauce soubise, tomate, etc. sausages, aux choux, a la puree, etc. Poultry, roast, fricassee, au hlanc, „ in aspic, in mayonnaise. a la jardiniere, curried, etc. „ with turnips, a2ix petits pois, etc.ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 175 Pigeons aiix cJioiiXy aiix cJiamjj'igiions, liagout financihre, Kabbit an hlanc, ate jamhon. stewed, roast^ d la Tartars, Salmis of game :—snipe^ partridges^ pbeasant^ woodcock^ quails^ etc. Game pie, hunter's pie. Chartreuse of game. Fish Entrees. Salmon cutlets, mayonnaise, pickled. with divers sauces, trout, boiled or baked. Soles ail gratliiy aux'fines Jierbes, Filleted soles en aspic, au hlanCy fried, etc. Sole Norm and e. Cod, baked, au gratin, a la sauce blanche, Salt cod en hrandacle. Mackerel a la maitre d'hotel, grilled, etc. Herrings, grilled, pickled, etc. Whiting, fried, baked, cm gratin au hlanc. Plaice, filleted, stuffed^ etc. Vol-au-venty with various fillings. Petits pates chauds. Timbales.176 ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. Rissoles. Raised pies. Eggs au gratin, a la sauce, aux epinavds (with spinach^ sorrel^ etc.). Entremets. Ham,, glazed or sliced. Tongues^ glazed or pressed. Galantbies of meat or poultry. Omelettes^, aux fines Jierhes, aux tomates, yy aux champignon.^j ognons, etc. y, au Sucrey au confiture, rhum, etc. Eggs en salade. Salads of all kinds. Mayonnaises. Macaroni^ etc. Haricots au hiancy a la bonne femme. yj flageolets au heurre. Petits pois. Cauliflower au gratin, au fromagey etc. Articliokes. Aubergines. Chicory^ celery, cucumbers. Asparagus. Salsify. Sea kale. Mushrooms. Potatoes. Sweet Entremets. CEiifs a la neige, Greme renverseey Creme Samhaijone,ENTREES AND ENTREMETS. 177 Charlotte russe, Sovfiees. Crepes. Beignets de PoynmeSy d^abricots, etc. Meringues. Compotes of all kinds. Jellies of all kinds. Fruit salads. Directions for preparing almost all the dishes here named have been given in different chapters. With regard to the dishes made from remains (a decided feature amongst this class), sufficient have been indicated to enable the average cook to compile and arrange others for herself. When tails, feet, brains, etc., are intended to be used, care must be taken to have them thoroughly cleansed and par-boiled, before dressing them in the manner desired. Kidneys require light cooking when intending to serve them sautes-, but if stewed or otherwise served they need longer time and gentle heat. P.O. N178 CHAPTER XVII. Zhc Bejeuner a la fourcbette* THAT cleverest of Englislimen^ Macaulay^ must have had the Dejeuner a la Pour- chettein his mind when he said that An invitation to breakfast was a proof that one was held to be good company; people were invited to dinner very often^ but a man must be really liked when one asked him to breakfast/^ This can scarcely be associated with the modern English breakfast_, which^ although an excellent meal in its way^ is generally too early^ too hurried, and too business-like to admit of the sociability which an invited guest would naturally expect; hence perhaps the more favourite invitation to lunch^ common enough; sometimes delightful, sometimes not. It has been argued that people should never meet socially until dinner-time; tempers are aptTHE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE, 179 to be too mucli tried^ or nerves too unsteady, until tlie work of the day is practically over. This may be a very safe rule for acquaintances and friends^ allowing exceptions to be made occasionally, but in the family it is different. In most families there will be found at least one member who will shirk coming down until the very last moment, thereby endangering the certainty as well as the sanctity of the family breakfast; another perhaps is so far before- hand as to have gone from the house before others can fairly begin the meal. Our French pere de famille so far recog- nises this fact that he does not attempt to struggle against the inevitable. Each member is at liberty to follow his own inclinations as early or late as he pleases, provided they will all assemble at dejeuner,^^ when as a rule hunger will bring all the flock to the family table. In Parisian families and in the better class provincial households this is the first serious meal of the day. It is partaken of at midday, breakfast consisting of little more than a cup of coffee, frequently served to each member in his own chamber. This midday repast is generally the time for the family chat, when all meet to-I So THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. getlier for the first time in the daj^ and have less restraint upon them than at the more formal dinner hour. It is quite a characteristic meal ; although similar to the Englishman's lunch^ yet it is not so much a make-up meal as the latter^ when it is thought lawful to serve up half-finished joints or tarts in their original form^ with little or no attempt at disguise. No^ the Frenchman looks for his little platsto be as daintily presented as at the more important dinner, and the remains/' if brought again before him_, must be delicately rechaufi'e." Potage " is sometimes served at this hour, and a vegetable puree is mostly chosen, as the lighter potages and clear soups are preferable at the late dinner. Dishes of fish, ragouts, fricassees, omelettes, etc., are all eminently suited for the dejeuner. Both at the dejeuner and the dinner it is customary in France to have what are termed appetisers," either to commence with or to hand round daring the meal, such for instance as olives, anchovies, oysters, pieces of Dutch herrings, sardines and radishes. The last-named are found exceedingly useful as a break between two rich-flavoured dishes.THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. i8i Sardines are perliaps the most esteemed com- mencement for a dejeuner, as oysters are most liked as a preface to a good dinner. One very effective little appetiser, and admir- ably adapted to commence a dejeuner with, is made as follows :—Some small round pieces are cut from a stale loaf, then fried a light golden colour in hot fat, and allowed to cool. Some olives are then stewed, and a few anchovies neatly filleted; these last-named are rolled up and slipped into the stoned olives. Next a drop of stiff mayonnaise sauce is placed upon the tiny round of fried bread, the olive is fixed upon this, and another drop of sauce crowns the whole, or a bit of bright aspic jelly. The mingled flavours of olive, anchovy, and sauce are delicious. Anchovy toast is also a very nice commencement to a dejeuner. We will now consider a few dishes suitable for a simple family dejeuner, and equally suited for the luncheon table of our English friends. Let us suppose that sardines have been first handed round, as they are available at all times of the year. Nothing but a good piece of bread is required with them. It need not be hinted that this is a very unsubstantial commencement to a meal; remember it is only the appetiser.iS2 THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. We will now seriously begin the meal with potage a la puree et au croutons/^ This is made by first boiling split peas and other vege- tables till thoroughly soft^ then passing them through the tamis^ and adding a sufficient quantity of stock or thin broth to make all of the consistency of cream. Season this well; let it heat again_, and while it is doing so^ some bread which has been cut into dice is fried in a little butter till brown^ then put in the tureen, and the boiling puree poured over just before serving. If we had chosen, this same potage might have been made of lentils, haricots, or potatoes, all done exactly the same way. We will presume the menagere has at hand some cold roast beef, from which she purposes to make beef olives.She will first prepare a light forcemeat, bread-crumbs, suet, chopped parsley and herbs, an egg to bind the whole, and pepper and salt; a little fine sausage meat is also an improvement. The roast beef is sliced very thinly, the force- meat laid in small quantities on each slice, and these are then rolled lightly, fastened with a little skewer, and dipped into egg and bread- crumbs, then fried in hot fat for a few minutes.THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE, 183 After tliat tliey are laid in a brown sauce^ well flavoured^ to cook a few minutes longer. Just before serving a little wine is added to the sauce. These olives might also have been made of fresh beef^ rump steak very thinly sliced, but in that case a little longer time to stew should be allowed. " Flageolets au beurre would be excellent either to follow this dish or to serve with it, ac- cording to taste. The flageolets, cooked in water until quite tender, are well drained, then tossed about in the saute pan with butter, seasoning, and a little chopped parsley added last of all. All the butter in the pan should be served with them. The same remark made in the case of the potage will apply here—viz., haricots, potatoes, etc., are equally adapted to be served in exactly the same way at a dejeuner. An omelette souffleemight now follow. This is made by whisking the whites and yolks of the eggs apart, allowing one for each person, adding powdered sugar in the proportion of a teaspoonful to each egg, and a little lemon juice to the beaten yolks; then beat in the snowy whites. A shallow baking tin is liberally buttered,184 THE DEJEUNER A LA FOURCHETTE. then heated. The mixture is poured in and baked in a quick oven. It will rise very much^ and when lightly browned on the top is suffici- ently done^ and must be served immediately. A little sifted sugar is a sufficient accompaniment. Cheese, or biscuits and jelly^ generally form the closing portion of a dejeuner^ sweet dishes being thought rather out of place, excepting as far as they occur in omelettes. A glass of liqueur is as invariably the final note as a cup of cafe noir, both here and at the dinner ; indeed the mazagran or clear black cofFeC; served in a thick glass tumbler with lump sugar, seems never out of place at any hour of the day. Although resembling a dinner, in general outline, at least, it will be seen that a dejeuner is a far simpler affair. One dish of meat is considered quite sufficient, with a dish of vege- tables or salad to follow it. If a fish course is preferred, and it consists of a fairly substantial kind, as soles, or mackerel, or cod, then meat may be dispensed with al- together, or the potage may be omitted. Simplicity should be one of the characteristics of this repast, as elegance and simplicity may safely travel hand in hand.185 CHAPTER XVIII. /IDenus for Small Bmneiu THERE is one point in connection with tlie all-important meal of the day that^ in small households at leasts is frequently over- looked—Yiz.y having a menu. It is sometimes thought to be ostentatious^ but this is a great mistake^ and certainly if there be a guest at the table it is a kindness as well as a duty on the part of the host to see that one is provided. Even at the private family table it will often be found of great service ; imagination plays an important part in the human organization^ a good name going a long way towards bringing a dish into favour. So many devices are now obtainable at so trifling a cost that none need be excused on this account. A wise housewife will keep the menus which186 MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS. liave once served^ making particular note of tliose wliicli gained the most favour; they will be found of great service in helping her on future occasions. Too great care can scarcely be gi^en to the appearance of the dinner table. An insufficient supply of bread^ or the lack of minor comforts^ such as mustard^ well-filled salt-cellars, etc., or knives and forks irregularly placed, are quite enough in themselves to spoil the appetite of the moderately fastidious. Elaborate decorations either of fruit or flowers are only within the reach of the wealthy, but a few fresh flowers, or a little growing plant, may be procured by the most frugal family economist. Perhaps the prettiest decoration possible is the common field poppy and its attendant grasses, or the autumn bramble leaves, to be had for the gathering. Ivy or holly in winter may be kept fresh for weeks with care. Due regard should be had to the fact that we eat by the eye as well as by the palate, and by the sense of association as well as by reason. In fact, too great a regard for reason with many people would be thought sufficient to spoil the appetite ; they prefer to follow the exampleMENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS. 187 of that good old hon vivant of anecdote fame who ^^ate as he pleased/^ He had as many things as he liked^ and ate of them as much as he could^ then with a stiff tumbler of brandy and water he would go to sleep, and leave them to fight it out amongst themselves/^ That sociability at table is an aid to digestion is an undisputed fact_, and no one realizes this more than the typical Frenchman. Having a natural inclination to domesticity, he is much more alive to the amount of trouble in- volved in the preparation of a good dinner, and is, therefore, prepared to give due and discrim- inating appreciation to each course ; welcoming with a beaming eye his favourite ^^sauce or civet,^^ as the case may be, until at the last he is left in that delightful state of mind described as the love of all mankind and toleration of the Chinese/^ When giving an order for a dinner a little forethought should be used; it will save an in- finity of trouble. It is possible to order a dinner, and a small one too, which implies so many saucepans in use that the fireplace could not hold them all ; or many dishes which can only be dressed at the188 MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS. last moment^ therefore all claiming the attention of the cook at the same time. Pried oysters^ croquettes, mutton cutlets^ and an omelette^ would sorely try the most capable cook were they ordered as four entrees together. Where the menagere is her own cook, she will be less likely to fall into this error; still, a little thinking beforehand may save even her a good many steps, and considerable anxiety at the crucial time of serving up. Many things, particularly entree dishes, may be cooked hours before, and then only require to be warmed up. We will suppose that a family of six to eight persons has to be catered for, and the housewife has to depend largely upon her own two hands for most of the actual work of cooking, and that soup, fish, one entree, joint, and sweets is to be the menu. The entree should generally (if economy has to be studied) be made of the remains of the previous day's joint, if that is sufiiciently re- duced in size, or something simple, such as omelettes or a vegetable dish. Whether an entree is an expense or no largely depends upon the ingenuity of the cook ; if the joint is hot and fresh, an entree preceding it will serve as a damper, and save it from a tooMENUS FOR SMALL DLNNERS. 189 liberal consumption; if it be cold^ then the same entree will make it all the more palatable. In sauces^ either for fish or meat^ one expense or provision may be made to serve two pur- p3ses. For instance^ if we have Sole a la JSTormande/^ and rump steak with oyster sauce ; half a dozen oysters will serve for both^ while the melted butter may be all made at once, and divided afterwards; the same wine also, and the same seasoning, etc. If a dish of vegetables is required, and the soup is a clear stock or bouillon, these vege- tables will cook quite as well in the soup, and increase its flavour; always, of course, except- ing such vegetables as cabbage or spinach, which should boil in clear water by themselves ; cauliflowers do not give a disagreeable flavour by any means, but their whiteness could not be kept if boiled in stock, therefore they also should be cooked alone. Where the first part of the dinner claims much attention and watching, the sweet dishes should be such as can be prepared in advance; then, if the reverse be the case, the meat cold, and the fish of a simple kind, a little more elaboration may be given to this course. As a rule, two fried dishes or two boiled onesI90 MENUS FOR SMALL DLNNERS, should not appear in the same menu ; of course^ there are occasions when it is necessary to make exceptions^ but it will be found too great a tax upon one pair of hands. The following menus may be found sugges- tive. Eecipes are not given here^ as they will mostly be found under their respective headings^ or at the close of the book :— No. 1. Julienne soup. Sole au gratin. Eoast loin of mutton with turnips and sauce blanche au persiL Omelettes au rhum. Fruit tartlets. No. 2. Bouillon. Boiled beef^ with a plat de carrottes.^^ Braised chicken and salad. Potatoes sautes. Apple fritters. Cheese^ with croutons.MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS, 191 No. 3. Potage au tomates. Boiled cod, sauce maitre d^liotel. Fricandeau of veal. Spinach, witli eggs. Eice mould and Compote of fruit. No. 4. Potage au lait. Croquettes, tomato sauce. Eoast beef. Peas or haricots au beurre Soufflee pudding, with Chocolate or jelly sauce. No. 5. Bisque of crab. Lobster cutlets. Braised leg of mutton. Cauliflower a la sauce blanche. Lemon meringue pudding.192 MENUS FOR SMALL DINNERS. No. 6. Vermicelli soup. Ragout of mutton. Cold roast beef. Potatoes a la creme and Vegetable salad. Gateau de riz. ^^Hors-d^oeuvre/^ consisting of oysters^ olives, radishes, cheese, and butter, may be placed upon the table or handed round. If liked, potatoes may accompany both fish and all meat dishes.CHAPTEE XIX. Cboice Supper Mshcs. TTH families wlio breakfast at an early V V hour^ and dine in tlie middle of the day, the need of a fairly substantial meal at supper time is a felt want. And whether the supper dish be a hot or a cold one^ it is of first im- portance that it should be a savoury one, as it is frequently a wearied mind as well as a tired body which asks to be refreshed at this hour. Many of the dishes described in the previous chapters are eminently suited for supper dishes; particulary those classed under the head of Fricassees and Rechauffes/^ and for an ap- petising way of serving meat cold see the chapter on Salads. Kidneys make a very recherche dish for the supper table, either served alone or wifch a little meat. They are by no means indigestible if P.O. 0194 CHOICE SUPPER DISHES, properly cooked. Kidneys saute are delicious. Slice some kidneys about a quarter of an inch thick^ dip each piece into flour, and drop into a tin containing a little hot fat, cut somb nice bacon into thin strips and frizzle at the sani6 time. The kidneys should be turned about in the hot fat and only given four or five minutes cooking; pour off all superfluous fat^ sprinkle with pepper and salt, add a tablespoonful of ketchup or tomato sauce, the same of boiling water, stir together and pour over a slice of hot toast. Serve immediately. If a veal kidney is to be had, it is very nice served as kidney fritters.It should be pre- viously cooked, then minced finely. A batter made with eggs, milk and flour, according to the amount of the kidney, chopped chives, parsley and mushrooms (if available), seasoning and a little spice. Beat well together, then melt a small lump of butter in the saute pan, pour in the mixture, allow it to set firmly, then slide it on to a hot dish and set in a very hot oven for a moment to brown the top. The fat part of the kidney should be used as well as the lean, or else a little fat pork with it. Meat and game pies of all descriptions areCHOICE SUPPER DISHES, 195 very desirable supper dishes. French pie crusty whether for eating hot or cold; is made as follows :—Into a pound of flour^ half a pound of butter is lightly rubbed and a teaspoonful of salt j this is made into a smooth paste with two eggs beaten and a small quantity of water. The paste should be lightly rolled out two or three times^ then baked as soon as possible. A very fair imitation of game pie may be made with but little expense if care be given to the preparation of the following forcemeat. Half a pound of calf s liver and the same quantity of fat bacon should be fried till cooked through, then chopped small and pounded finely in a mortar. When thoroughly reduced, add a good teaspoonful of mixed savoury herbs, half one of black pepper, mustard and mace, and a little salt and a few bread-crumbs ; mix smoothly with two yolks of eggs. Line the bottom crust of the pie with slices of fat bacon, then a good layer of forcemeat, and fill up with joints of fowls or ducks, rabbits, or anything most available at the time. It is not at all necessary that it should be game. If all bones which it is possible to remove are taken out, the pie will be so much the better. Fill up all spaces with forcemeat, lay a little196 CHOICE SUPPER DISHES, more bacon at the top, then put on the top crust, brush over with beaten egg and bake. A little strong gravy well seasoned and a little dissolved gelatine added to it should be poured in when it is baked, through a small hole at the top. This pie may be eaten hot, but it is better cold. Veal with a little sausage meat, or rump steak with mushrooms, or kidneys, and rabbits jointed, are all excellent fillings for pies. These pies require careful and thorough baking. A very savoury hot dish is a Pate of Macaroni. For this half a dozen lengths of macaroni should be broken into small pieces and gently simmered in a pint of boiling water in which an onion and a little salt has boiled. Drain well, in about twenty minutes' time. Place a layer of macaroni at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish, sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese over and a few bits of butter; then cover with pieces of beefsteak which has been previously stewed tender, the gravy thickened and browned and highly seasoned. Fricasseed chicken, veal cut small, or sweet- breads cut into dice, may take the place of beef, but should all have been previously stewed in good gravy. Another layer of macaroni and a197 CHOICE SUPPER DISHES, covering of cheese should form a crust at the top; then bake this pate for about ten minutes in the oven. Serve at once. Sweetbreads, either fried in eggs and bread- crumbs, fricasseed, or stewed in a brown sauce, are excellent at supper time, and are very suitable for persons of weak digestion. They should always be parboiled in salt and water, then thrown into cold water before being further dressed. Boiled fish is scarcely a dish for the supper- table, but small fish broiled over the fire with sauce, or " au gratin,^^ or even fried, are all acceptable. Pork meat and sausages should be avoided at this hour by the wise and prudent. Eggs are thought to be indigestible at night by many people, but if cooked with care they need not be feared. If done a la Maitre d^Hotel they are very savoury. A Spanish onion should be sliced thinly, frizzled slightly in butter, a little flour added, some hot milk, seasoning and chopped parsley; let this thicken. Take some eggs and lightly poach them; then lay on toast, and pour this sauce over them. Eggs may be fricasseed by first boiling them hard ; then cutting them into slices and tossing(gS CHOICE SUPPER DISHES, them in the saute pan with butter^ parsley, seasoning, etc., and adding a httle cream, or, if preferred, a little gravy. Amongst French people omelettes are much favoured as a supper dish. Cheese has rather a bad reputation with many people. If they would take the trouble to grate it and sandwich it between bread and butter, they would find it as harmless as it is tasty, and the recommendation given in Chap. IX. is worthy of attention. Cheese fondue is a capital way of using up stale crusts of cheese, besides being another hot and savoury dish.—See Chap. IX. Cheese and cauliflowers, cheese and macaroni, cheese pates and cheese straws, are all much- liked dishes at the supper table. Where pastry is objected to, its place may be substituted by a light mixture of eggs, flour, butter, with a pinch of baking powder; the former ingredients in the proportion of a spoon- ful of flour and half one of butter to each egg, and a spoonful of milk. This may be baked in small buttered cups, or it may be poured on to two buttered plates and baked, jam or jelly being spread upon one while the other forms a cover, or it may be baked in one tin as a flatCHOICE SUPPER DISHES. 199 slieetj then spread witli jam or marmalade^ and rolled up as for a Genoese roll. Sponge biscuits spread witli jelly, placed in a glass dish, and a sweet custard or egg cream poured over, makes a very nice cold sweet dish.200 CHAPTER XX. Some strictly French recipes not included in former chapters. Potage aux Marrons. {Chestnut soup.) After having boiled the chestnuts, peel them carefully and pound them in a mortar. Pass them through a sieve, adding a little bouillon or clear stock from time to time. When reduced to a puree add more stock to make the quantity of soup required; add salt, cayenne pepper, and mace to flavour it pleasantly. Boil it up again, then if a white soup is desired, add a teaspoonful of boiling cream ; if a brown soup be preferred, add a little good gravy and a spoonful of brown thickening. Pour over a little fried bread in the tureen.20I ADDENDUM, Potage au Potiron. {Pumpkin soup.) Take a quarter of a pumpkin^ if very large a thick slice will be sufficient^ pare it^ take out tlie seeds. Tken boil in water till quite soft^ drain all water away and add a lump of butter the size of an egg, a little salt_, then mash well together. Add a pint of boiling milk and a few lumps of sugar^ stir well^ and when cooled a little stir in a beaten yolk of egg. Pour over a slice of white breads cut into dice and serve. Potag*e Printanier. (Spring soup,) Take a pint of fresh shelled p eas^ a shred lettuce^ cress^ parsley, a sprig of mint, a few leaves of sorrel, a few fresh onions, and cook them till tender in a little fresh butter. Press through a colander and add clear stock, let it boil again, then allow to cool, after which add the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Season it well before serving. Potage aux Poireaux. {Leeh soup.) This may be made with either stock or water. A dozen leeks should be sliced thinly, then frizzled in butter till of a nice brown colour, when a slice of bread should be added to them.202 ADDENDUM Pepper and salt liberally. Let this cook slowly for a little time^ then add boiling water or stock to make a sufficient quantity. If liked milk may be used instead. Potage a la Crecy. {Superior carrot soup.) Slice and chop small the best part of three or four large carrots, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, add a sliced onion, a turnip, some pepper and salt, a slice of lean bacon, also cut very small. Let them cook for half an hour, shaking the pan occasionally to keep from burning. Pour over two pints of stock or water, let them boil for two hours longer. Strain and press the vegetables through a sieve. Thicken with a tablespoonful of tapi- oca, return to the pan and boil a few minutes longer. Serve with toasted strips of bread. Boubillasse. {A Provengal potage.) Take any kind of fish, but whiting or cod and dory are preferable. Put the fish into a stewpan to boil gently. In a frying-pan place a sliced onion, a clove of garlic, chopped parsley, chopped lemon rind, salt and pepper, spice, and a little oil. When sufficiently fried add the fish, whichADDENDUM, 203 should be boned, skinned and cut into quarters. Stir well together, add two pints of boiling water and a bit of butter mixed with sufficient flour to thicken the whole. Let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour, then serve. If mack- erel, sardines, or other rich kinds of fish are used, make them brown by frying, add clear stock and a little brown thickening. Boeuf a la Mode. A piece of the round of beef is best for this dish, as there is no bone in it. Lard it with long strips of salted pork inserted in a larding needle. At the bottom of an earthenware stewpot or the braisiere " put first a glassful of white wine, then several small onions left whole, carrots cut in slices, a few more bits of salt pork, a " bou- quet garni," some peppercorns and a little salt. Place the meat upon these, cover over tightly and put the vessel to cook over the charcoal stove or in the far corner of the oven. Let it stew gently for five or six hours. Serve with the vegetables. If the beef is intended to be eaten cold a calf's foot or small piece of knuckle of veal should be cooked with it. When the meat has cooked sufficiently, take it out, take away the vegetables, and add a beaten white of204 ADDENDUM. egg to clarify the gravy; let this boil for a moment^ then strain over the beef; it will jelly when cold. Langrue de Boeuf a la Persillade, Allow a tongue to boil in salted water until tender; then strip it of the skin and cut it open lengthways down the middle; lay it flat upon a dish. Pour over it a sauce made of butter melted^ a wineglassf ul of vinegar^ a good tablespoonful of chopped parsley^ pepper and salt. Langrue de Boeuf en Hoche Pot. Partly boil the tongue in salted water^ skin it^ cut into short thick pieces. Put into a stew- pan with a few pieces of fat bacon all sorts of vegetables cut into convenient lengths, a bouquet of herbs, seasoning and a glass of white wine. Cover well and cook gently for two or three hours; arrange all neatly on a hot dish^ strain the gravy, and pour over all. B(BUf au Four. {To he eaten cold.) Mince finely a slice of lean beef, then add a small quantity of beef fat, also finely minced,ADDENDUM. 205 the same of lean ham^ some parsley^ mushrooms (fresh or tinned ones)^ shallots, and savoury herbs, all iSnely minced also. Line a mould with a few slices of nice bacon, cut small. Add to the mince four yolks of eggs, to bind it well together, then put into the mould and bake gently two or three hours. The mould should be carefully covered over with a paste made of flour and water. When sufficiently cooked re- move this crust and pour a little melted butter over the top of the meat. Set aside till cold. This is a nice dish for the supper table. Queue de BcBuf en Hoche Pot. The ox tail is jointed, then parboiled and cooked afterwards in the stewpan in exactly the same manner as the Langue de boeuf en hoche pot.'' Queue de Boeuf a la Matelote. Cut the ox tail at each joint, stew gently in the oven with water till quite tender. Make a little brown roux with butter and flour, and mix a little of the liquor from the stewpan with it. Place the joints of ox tail in this and a few small onions previously boiled in water; add aADDENDUM. 206 glass of wine^ a buncli of sweet herbs^ a clove, peppercorns^ and a spoonful of salt. Cook slowly another hour, take out the pieces of tail, put them on a dish, and arrange the onions round them; strain the sauce, and add a spoon- ful of capers or anchovy sauce. Pour over all and garnish with strips of fried bread. Carre de Mouton aux Concombres. Take a square piece of mutton (a flank cut will do), trim it neatly, prick it with fat all over, then roast it. While it is roasting prepare two or three small cucumbers, which have been pared and beeped in vinegar. Cut them into dice, put a little butter into a stewpan, and a slice of ham; add the cucumbers, and stir them about till they begin to brown, then stir in a pinch of flour with seasoning, a little clear stock. Let them cook a little longer till slightly thick j then pour on the dish and place the roast mutton over. Carre de Mouton a la Ravigote. A piece of the breast is best for this. Cut it into small portions, saute them in a little clear fat for a few minutes, add a spoonful of flour and a cupful of stock ; add seasoning and garlic, if207 ADDENDUM. liked; if not^ a few shallots. Let it simmer for an hour. Then remove all fat; take away part of the sauce^ to which add two yolks of eggs and a lettuce^ a handful of cress^ tarragon leaves and parsley^ mint and thyme^ all of which have been boiled a few minutes in water and then chopped finely. Stir all this over the fire till it thickens, then arrange the meat on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over it. Filet de Mouton a la Maitre d'Hdtel. The loin of mutton should have the bones removed for this dish. Lay the piece flat, then place upon it a mixture of minced parsley, herbs, shallots, and a few bread-crumbs; then roll up carefully and fasten securely with small skewers. Place in a baking-tin, with a liberal supply of fat. Let it cook briskly for an hour or more, according to size. Then pour off all fat, add a cupful of stock, a dash of vinegar, a spoonful of dried parsley, pepper, and salt, and a little flour to thicken it. Allow this to boil well, then pour over the roll and serve. Epaule de Mouton a la Turque, Boil a shoulder of mutton in a little bouillon or broth with a bunch of savoury herbs, a bit ofADDENDUM. 2o8 garlic^ a clove^ a laurel leaf^ basil^ two onions, thyme, and a few root vegetables, till just done, allowing a quarter of an hour to a pound weight of meat. A little while before serving take a small quantity of this bouillon, remove all fat, and put in it a quarter-pound of well-washed rice to cook till soft. Put the shoulder of mutton on to a dish, make a few incisions in it to receive the rice, cover the whole completely with rice, and over that grate some stale cheese. Hold a salamander over it to brown the surface, and serve with clear brown sauce. Hapicot de Mouton. Cut up two pounds of breast of mutton or the blade part of the shoulder; fry the pieces in clear hot fat after first dipping each piece in flour, then drain them when of a nice brown colour; after which cut up some turnips into finger lengths, brown them also in the fat. Then make some clear brown sauce and place the pieces of mutton in it to stew with a bouquet garni, two or three whole onions; then add the turnips. When cooked (in about half an hour) remove the fat. Serve on a hot dish and cover over with the turnips and sauce.ADDENDUM. 209 Gigrot de Mouton Farci. Bone a leg of mutton and in the place of the bone put the following stuffing : lean ham^ a little salt pork^ mushrooms^ and cucumbers, minced together^ seasoned with salt^ mixed spices and savoury herbs mixed firmly together with an egg. Fill up all spaces in the leg with thiSj tie together with string to keep in place^ then put into a covered stewpan with a cupful of broth and one of wine^ an onion^ a carroty and a parsnip. Let it cook slowly for two or three hours^ strain the gravy^ remove all fat, thicken very slightly and serve with the mutton. Or if to be eaten cold, make a glaze of the gravy, and pour carefully over the leg when nearly cold. Blanquette de Veau. This is made of the remains of roast fillet of veal. Cut the meat into small equal-sized pieces. Take two teacupfuls of veloute or white thickened sauce, add the yolks of two or three eggs, a small lump of butter, and a pinch of chopped parsley, with the juice of a lemon and a little seasoning. Let the meat thoroughly heat through in this sauce, then serve at once.2IO ADDENDUM. If made with, fresh meat^ it should have been cooked through in a little first. Blanquettes of lamb^ poultry, etc., are all made the same way. Add tinned mushrooms if available. Foie de Veau a I'ltalienne. Cut the liver into small slices and place in a covered stewpan in the following order; a layer of liver, each piece having been dipped into flour, then a liberal sprinkling of the following mixture :—salt, pepper, olive oil, minced fine herbs, mushrooms, garlic or shallots. Continue to alternate with layers of the liver and this mixture till all the liver is used. Let it cook slowly for an hour or two. Remove the meat, add a spoonful of vinegar and a little brown thickening to the sauce, a glass of wine, and serve very hot over the liver. Foie de Veau a la Bourg^oise. Keep the liver in one piece, but lard it thickly with fat bacon, cover with flour and place in a stewpan with a little fat, herbs, seasoning and a few shallots. Let it cook three hours. A glass of red wine and a yolk of egg are added to the gravy before serving. Or a cupful of stock may be substituted for the latter, and aADDENDUM, 211 little more flour added if not thick enough. The liver should be served in thin slices. It is an excellent way of cooking this portion of the animal. Jambon a la Broche. Take a ham which has been salted and dried^ but not smoked, or a leg of fresh pork may be used instead. Let the ham steep for twenty hours in white wine in which an onion and a bunch of parsley are also steeping. Then lift it out and set to roast before a clear fire, basting with this liquor. Before it is quite cooked through remove the rind, then allow it to brown ; meanwhile in a saucepan prepare a glaze from stock made from bones and remains of meat, clarify and thicken this to form a stiff transpa- rent glaze, and pour over the ham. Serve either hot or cold. Jambon a la Braise. Hams cooked in the braisiere are very supe- rior to boiled hams. A few vegetables may be placed in the pot, if liked, and half a bottle of wine may be added, but this is quite optional. A leg of fresh pork will be very much improved if done this way, but a liberal seasoning and212 ADDENDUM. powdering of flour should be given from time to time. Allow several hours to cook^ and if not brown enough remove the cover and set the leg to finish before the fire. Cotelettes de Pore en Ragout. The pork cutlets having been previously partly cooked in a stewpan, drain them and brown in butter; add to them a sweetbread cut small, some tinned mushrooms and giblets of poultry, if any are available. Add a little flour, salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley and herbs, minced onion, and a cupful of liquor from the stewpan, and let them simmer gently for half an hour. Cutlets are very nice served over a puree of lentils or peas. For this they should be cooked as above, omitting the ingredients of the sauce, as the latter is not required with a puree. Lapin au Gite. After having skinned, cleaned and paunched the rabbit, make a stuffing, using the liver and kidneys, chopping them finely with a few mush- rooms, parsley, chives, bread-crumbs and an egg beaten well, and salt and pepper. Fill the body of the rabbit, sew together again, truss theADDENDUM. 213 legs and shoulders with the help of wooden skewers. Lay in a stewpan^ pour over a glass of red wine^ a cupful of stocky dust it with flour, add a few small onions, a slice or two of fat bacon, and let it cook a couple of hours. Thicken and brown the gravy before pouring over the rabbit. Lapin en Assiette. Cut up the rabbit into small joints, partly cook them in a covered vessel with a little stock well seasoned, then lift out the pieces, roll them in egg and bread-crumbs, then in a little melted butter, and either grill them or fry carefully with a little fat. Serve them without gravy accompanied by a salad. Filets de Lapin en Salade. The remains of a rabbit either roasted or baked are used for this dish. Cut into small thick pieces. Cut up also two or three ancho- vies, small onions previously boiled, whole capers, a small quantity of bread cut into fingers'^ and fried brown. Dress the whole as a salad.214 ADDENDUM. Lapin Saute a la Minute. Cut a rabbit into small pieces^ wash and wipe dry. Brown eacli piece in the saute pan with butter^ aromatic herbs (ground), pepper^ salt and mace; add finely chopped parsley and shallots. Draw aside from the fire^ cover over and allow to simmer for a few minutes^ then serve on a hot dish. Poulets a la Montmorency. Draw and singe two chickens of equal size. Mix together minced suet^ bread-crumbs, spice, aromatic herbs, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon; put a little in the body of each chicken. Lay some thin slices of fat pork over each, and also at the bottom of an earthenware stewpot. Place the chickens upon them, add several carrots^ onions, a clove or two, bay leaves, thyme, and a bunch of parsley. Moisten with a cupful of bouillon. Lay buttered paper over all and cook in the oven from two to three hours. Serve with clear sauce espagnole. Poulets a la Jardiniere. Pluck and draw the chicken. Cut it open down the back and lay as flat as possible. LetADDENDUM. 215 it steep awhile in melted butter in whicli a clove of garlic and some strong seasoning has lain. Then drain the chicken^ roll it well in bread- crumbs^ then broil over a clear fire. When cooked lay upon a hot dish and pour over a sauce made with a little of the melted butter^ slightly thickened with flour^ a glass of wine^ a spoonful of vinegar, chopped parsley and mush- rooms. Pour over the chicken and serve. Poule a la Reine. Draw and singe a fowl; an old one will do. Eub it over well with butter, and cover with sliced lemons. Let it cook for two hours in a covered vessel, in which place also a carrot, two onions, a bouquet garni, and a spoonful of vine- gar with a little stock. Serve without these vegetables, but with a sauce made from fresh tomatoes (see Sauces) or a Financiere ragout. (See Fricassees and E/echauffes.) Canard aux Navets. After having drawn and singed a duck, truss it, and then place it in a thick brown sauce to boil gently, turning it about occasionally; add a bouquet garni, coarse salt and peppercorns, andADDENDUM, 2l6 some turnips cut neatly into short thick pieces. Allow it to cook from an hour and a half to two hours. Skim away all fat^ serve with the tur- nips piled round the duck. This is the fagon hourgeoise of preparing the duck. Another way is to cook the duck separately in a white sauce^ the turnips boiled in water to blanch them, then added to a little veal stock and white thicken- ing, well seasoned, then poured over the duck when that is thick enough. Canard a la Pur^e Verte. Cook a pint of peas with chives, parsley, and watercress in a little water till quite soft. At the same time boil a duck in broth with aromatic herbs, onions, spice, and seasoning. Pass the peas through a tamis, thin the puree with a little broth, season well, and pour over the duck. A little salt bacon cut in strips and frizzled may be laid round the dish as a garni. Pigeons en Surprise. Take five pigeons, pluck and draw them, truss them also. Blanch the pigeons for a few minutes in boiling water. Take them out, and in the same water put five good lettuces. LetAddendum, 217 them boil ten minutes^ throw them into cold water and then squeeze them in a cloth. Cut them in two without separating the leaves^ sprinkle the inside with the following mixture : the livers finely minced together with parsley^ tarragon^ thyme^ chives^ etc.^ and all mixed with a little butter, salt and pepper. Then put in each lettuce* one of the pigeons, cover with another sprinkling of herbs, and close up the lettuce to appear as if untouched, tie them securely and let them stew in rich broth for an hour. When cooked drain them, remove the string. Serve with a rich sauce made from a little of the liquor thickened with yolks of eggs. Dress nicely on a hot dish and pour the sauce round the lettuces. Morue a la ProvenQale. Allow some salted cod to lie in water for thirty-six hours, changing the water frequently. Then put on the fire in clear cold water, and as soon as it boils the cod is cooked; lift it at once and drain it. Place in a tin baking dish some minced shallots, chives and parsley, sliced lemon, a little butter, and two spoonfuls of oil. Arrange the cod over this in small pieces; thenADDENDUM. 2l8 cover over the cod with the same mixture and grate a little stale bread over all. Bake for twenty minutes in the oven. Morue Fraiche aux Fines Herbes. Take a whole cod, well wash and clean it. Dry and powder it with flour, then, rub over a tin baking-dish with fresh butter. Place the cod in it, pour melted butter over and bake for twenty minutes to half an hour. When done pour over the following sauce :—a lump of butter the size of an egg, a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of vinegar, same of chopped parsley, chives and sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Let these boil a moment, place the cod on a dish and cover with the sauce. Cod is very good baked this way and served with tomato sauce. Harengrs a la Maitre d'Hdtel. Clean well some herrings, split and bone them; broil. them over a clear fire, then lay on a hot dish, spread over them butter mixed with dried parsley, salt and pepper. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over just before serving.ADDENDUM, 219 Harengs a la Sainte Menehould. Split and bone the herrings^ let tliem lie in a little milk for two hours^ dry tliem^ then dip into a mixture of melted butter^ yolks of eggs^ salt and pepper and sweet herbs, cover them with brown crumbs of bread^ fry gently and serve with white wine vinegar. Garrottes en Sauce. Cut some carrots into thin slices lengthways^ and boil in salt and water till tender. It is better to boil them whole and slice them after- wards. Melt some butter in a saucepan^ add a little flour, lay in the carrots, season well, pour on to a dish, sprinkle with finely chopped or dried parsley. Celery, parsnips, chicory, and turnips may all be done the same way. Pommes-de-Terre a la Creme. Boil some potatoes in water till quite tender, slice them, and put in a saucepan with butter^ parsley and chives minced, salt and pepper, and a cupful of cream. Let them boil gently, and beat all the time with a wooden fork.220 ADDENDUM. Salsifis Frits. Boil the salsifys in water with vinegar and salt till quite tender. Drain and dip them in batter as prepared for apple fritters^ then cover with bread raspings, drop into boiling fat, and cook for five minutes. Or they may be boiled, drained, then covered with white sauce. Betteraves Fricassees. Pare and slice some beetroots, put them in the saute pan, with butter, chives and parsley, chopped, a little garlic or minced shallots and a sprinkling of flour, pepper and salt and a dash of vinegar. Let them boil up for a few minutes, then serve. Very good with either boiled or baked beef: Champignons a la Creme. Place some mushrooms in the saute pan, with the same addition as above, add a little warm water; when cooked add the yolks of two or three eggs, and a cupful of cream. Let it boil once, and then serve over fried bread. Pudding" a la Moelle. Break four ounces of dried biscuits into a glass of milk, mix with this the yolks of four221 ADDENDUM. and whites of two eggs. Add two ounces of powdered sugar, the marrow of a beef bone minced, a glass of brandy, one of liqueur, and a spoonful of potato flour. Let it boil till thick, then pour into a buttered mould and bake half an hour. Pets de Nonne. Put in a saucepan two teacupfuls of water, a little sugar and essence of lemon. Gradually sift in some flour, stirring all the time, add a small lump of butter, and when a smooth paste is obtained, take off the fire, and stir in two eggs thoroughly. Take small portions no larger than a walnut, drop into boiling fat, let them attain a golden colour, drain and roll in pow- dered sugar. Serve with jelly. Gateau d'Amandes. Weigh several eggs in their shells, add the same weight of flour, butter and white sugar. Pound the same weight of sweet almonds in a mortar with a little lemon juice. Beat the eggs, whites and yolks, together, add them to the almonds, then the other ingredients. Mix all smoothly together. Batter a shallow mould andADDENDUM. 222 pour in the mixture. Bake in the oven for twenty minutes. This makes an excellent foun- dation for fancy cakes. Comp6te Blanche de Pommes. Pare and quarter some russet apples, drop them into boiling water with a few lumps of sugar in it. Let them cook till tender through, but not broken. Arrange in a glass dish, then add more sugar to the liquor to form a syrup, and boil till it thickens, then pour over the apples. Pears may be blanched and done the same way. Apricots done the same should have a glass of sweet wine added to the syrup, and the kernels should be blanched and thrown into it, then poured over the fruit.INDEX. Apple Fritters . PAGE 86 Canard aux Navets . PAGE 215 Salad . 52 Candied Fruit . 162 Aromatics . 168 Capsicum Salad . 50 Asparagus tops, a la Carre de Mouton 206 Creme . 38 Carrots 219 Aubergines, Farciies . 40 Carrot Salad 51 Grilled 41 Soup Carrottes en Sauce 202 219 Bean Salad . 53 Cauliflowers— Beef . . . 203-205 " Au Fromage " . 37 Olives . 182 " Au Gratin " . 37 Beetroots 220 Celery Salad 52 Betteraves Fricassees 200 Champignons a la Bisque 108 Creme 220 Blanquette de Veau . 209 Charlotte Russe . 103 Boeuf a la Daube 76 Cheese Darioles . 119 a la Mode . 203 Fondu . 119 au Four 204 Fricassee 120 Bouillon 14 Omelette 121 Brioche 92 Pudding- 118 Brown Onion Soup 21 Salads . Sandwiches . 121 120 Canard a la Puree Verte 216 Savoury Rice 119 '423224 INDEX, PAGE Chestnut Soup . . 200 Chives . . .145 Chocolate Cream Ga- teau ... 90 Choux a la Creme . 91 Cod . . . 217-218 Compotes— Blanche de Pommes 222 Cherries . . 104 Pears . . . 104 Plums . . .104 Prunes. . . 104 Quinces . . 103 Eemarks on . 94 Ehubarb . . 104 Strawberries . 104 Conserve of Tomatoes 151 Cooking-vessels, French 10 Cotelettes de Pore . 212 Creme Eenversee . 102 Sambayone . , 102 Croquettes . . . 169 Cucumber Salad . 51 Cucumbers, Stuffed . 40 Curried Vegetables— Brown ... 42 White ... 43 " Daubieres " and " Brai- sieres," Eemarks on 75 Diplomate ... 97 Drunkard's Broth . 143 Duck . . . 215-216 Eclairs aux Chocolat . 91 Economy 1 EiTffS .... J-i^g,0 .... 197 a la Bonne Femme 172 au Gratin 111 Entrees and Entremets, Eemarks on 167 Entrees— Fish . 175 Meat . 174 Entremets . 176 Epaule de Mouton . 207 Fast-day Dishes . . 106 Fennel Salad . . 53 Filet de Mouton . . 207 Filets de Lapin • . 213 I^islx— Au Gratin . 109 Baked Cod . 114 Flat 113 Halibut hi la Creme 114 Halibut Steaks 114 Mackerel and Her- rin2*s 116 Mayonnaise. 117 Morue a la Hol- landaise 113 Pickling 116 Fish- Salmon Steaks 115 Flageolets au Beurre . 183 Flat Fish Eecipe 113INDEX. 22$ PAGE Flavoured Vinegars . 74 Foie de Veau 210 Fowl .... 214 Frangipane. 91 French Cooking-vessels 10 Kitchens 9 Pancakes 87 Pie-crust 195 Stoves . 8 Fricandeaux 129 Fricassees and Re- chauffees, Eemarks on . 125 Fried Parsley • • 4-1 Salsify . 38 Fruit "aiace" . 162 Remarks on. 160 ^alads . 160 Frying and " Saute ". ing, Remarks on 82 G-alantines . 80 Galette Cherbourgeoise 99 Lorraine 99 Gamekeeper's Potage. 26 Game Salad 56 Gateaux and Compotes, Remarks on 89 Gateau au Riz . 92 d'Abricots . 90 d'Amandes . 221 d'OSufs au Yanille 101 Souffle un Citron. 95 vxenoise 1 ourree. • PAGE Gigot de IMouton • 909 la Barigoule " . . oo Grilled Aubergines . 4-1 Ham .... 211 Salad 56 Harengs la JMaitre d'Hotel. 218 Haricot Bean Mayon- naise 54 Puree of 24 Haricot de Mouton 208 Hashes 171 Herrings . .218 -219 Imitation Cxame Fie . x.oO Jambon a la Braise . 211 211 Jerusalem Artichokes, a la Maitre d'Hotel. 36 in Sauce 37 Soup . 26 Kidneys Fritters iy4 Kitchens, French 9 Langue de Boeuf 204 Lapin au Gite 212 en Assiette . 213 Saute . 214 QINDEX. 226 PAGE PAGE Leeks and Onions, Ee- Omelettes— marks on 140 Cheese . 121 Leek Soup . 201 Mushroom . 122 Lentils, Puree of 25 Onion . 122 Lobster Salad 57 Remarks on . 109 Luncheon, Remarks on 178 Soufflee 183 Onions and Leeks, Re- Macaroni . 112 marks on. 140 Mackerel 109 Ox Tail . . 205 Maigre Dishes, Re- marks on 106 Parsnips and Turnips, Marasquin . 100 Puree of . 25 Mayonnaise 54 Pate d'Eclair 91 Meat Entrees 174 Pate of Macaroni 196 Menus. 190 Peas or Lentils, Puree Morue a la Provencale 217 of ... . 25 Fraiche aux Fines Petits Pois . 39 Herbes 218 Pets de Nonne . 221 Mushrooms— Pigeons 216 a la Poulette 156 en Surprise . 216 a la Provencale . 156 Pommes de Terra a la au Grratin 157 Creme 219 Ketchup 158 Pork .... 212 Omelette 158 Potage a la Crecy 202 Remarks on . 153 220 a la Puree . 182 Salad . 54 au Lait. 107 Mutton . . 206 -209 au Potiron . 201 aux Marrons 200 (Eufs a la Neige . 123 d-ax Poireaux 201 Omelettes— 1 Boubillasse . 202 au Fines Herbes . 122 Printanier . 201 au Rhum 123 Potatoes 219 au Sucre 122 1 Potato Salad 55INDEX, 227 PAGJbl PAGE Potato Soup 20 Salads— Ponle a la Reine 215 G-ame . 56 Poulets a la Jardiniere 214 Ham 56 a la Montmorency 214 Lobster 57 Poultry a la Daube 78 Mushroom . 54 Pudding a la Moelle . 220 Potato . 55 Pumpkin Soup . 201 Remarks on. 45 Purees.... 18 Sardine 55 Purees of— Salsifis Frits 220 Carrots 26 Salt Cod 108 Haricot Beans 24 Sardine Salad 55 Peas or Lentils . 25 Sauces— Turnips and Par- au Confiture 73 snips . 25 au Jambon . 68 aux Citrons . 73 Quatre-quarts 101 Becbamel 68 Queue de Boeuf . 205 Bordelaise . 68 Dite Beurre Noir. 64 Habbit. . . 212-214 Financiere . 69 Ragout of Mutton 128 G-reen Mayonnaise 71 Rissoles 85 Horse Radish 72 Mayonnaise . 71 Saint Honore 100 Blanche 70 Salad Dressings, Rules Napolitaine . 73 for Mixing 58 Normande . 66 Salads— Pari sienna . 65 Apple . 52 (sweet) . 72 Bean 53 Piquante 65 Capsicum 50 Poulette 66 Carrot . 51 Ravigote 67 Celery . 52 Remarks on. 59 Cucumber . 51 \ Robert. 65 Fennel . 53 Salmis . . 69, 70INDEX. 228 PAGE Sauces— Stuffed Cucumbers 40 Soubese 66 Tomatoes 149 Tartare 67 Supper Dishes, Re- Savarin 98 marks on 193 Sea Kale in Cream 34 Sweetbreads 197 Shin of Beef 15 Sweet Entremets. 176 Small Dinners, Re- Sweet Pickle 95 marks on. 185 Snowballs in Tomatoes 149 Tarte .... 93 Sole a la Normande . 109 Timbale of Macaroni . 124 Sorrel .... 132 Tomatoes— Sonp 138 Conserve 151 Soups— Farcis . 171 Artichoke . 26 Mayonnaise. 150 Brown Onion 21 Puree 147 Carrot . 202 Remarks on . 146 Chestnut 200 Soup . . 22, 148 Classified 14 Stuffed . 149 Leek 201 Tongue 204 Potato . 20 Turnips and Parsnips, Pumpkin 201 Puree of . 25 Sorrel . 138 Spring . 201 Veal . . . 209-211 Tomato. 22 Vegetable Pies . 43 Vermicelli . 23 Vegetables, Curried . 42 "Watercress . 22 Vegetables, Remarks White Stock 24 on . 28 Spinach 134 Vermicelli Soup. 23 a la Creme . 136 Vol-au-vents 172 en Croustades 135 Spring Soup 201 Watercress . 137 Stew^s .... 75 Soup . . 22, 139 Stoves, French . 8 ^White Stock Soup 24i I • A SELECTION FROM Ward, Lock & Bowden's LIST OF STANDARD REFERENCE VOLUMES, AND POPULAR USEFUL BOOKS THE NEW EDITION OF TB£ BEST COOKERY BOOK IN THE WORLD. (Published November, 1888) Enlarged, Ee-composed, Revised, Improved. With New Menus, Kew Modes, New Recipes, New Tables, New Engravings, New Coloured Plates. 538th Thousand, strongly bound, ball roan, price 7«. / cloth gilt- bevelled boards, gilt edges, 8s. 6d.; half-calf, 10s» 6d» ; e legant full tree calf, 18s. MRS. BEETON'S BOOK OF JHOUSEHOLD jVIANAGEMENT. Efitifely New ayd greatly Enlarged and Improved Edition^ INCLUDING 360 additional pages of New Recipes and New Engravings, or in all about 1,700 pages, with Thousands of Recipes and Instructions, Hundreds of Engravings and New Coloured Cookery Plates. With Quantities, Time, Costs, and Seasons, Directions for Carvin? and Trussing, Management ol Children, Arrangement and Economy of the Kitchen, Duties of Servants, the Doctor, Legal Memoranda, and Bills of Fare and Menus of all kinds and for all Seasons. In this New Edition, the size of the pages has been increased, and 360 payes added, so that the work now contains nearly one half as much matter again as the old edition, OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ON THE NEW EDITION. '* Perfect as it was before, it is much more so now."- -Bristol Times. ** Should be one of the wedding presents of every bride."—The Christian World. " Hardly Anything belonging to domestic life is wanting to this ency clopaedic vCiUme."—Manchester Examiner. *if.* As a Wedding Gift, Birthday Book, or Presentation Volume at any feriod of the year, Mrs. Beetons " Household Management" is en- titled to the very first place. 1 he book will last a lijetime, and save money every day. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. ISTANDARD COOKERY & HOUSEKEEPING BOOKS. WARD3 LOCK & BOWDEN, Ltd. 7/6 Price MRS. BEETON'S EVERY-DAY COOKERY AND HOUSE- 3/6 KEEPING BOOK. Re-written and Revised throuehout, greatly 1 Enlarged and Improved ; containing 570 Pages, 1,800 Recipes, in- cluding Instructions for Foreign and Vegetarian Cookery, New French and English Menus for every Month in the Year, New Menus for Breakfast, Luncheon, Tea, Supper and Picnics, New Tables of House- keeping Accounts and Efbusehold Expenditure, New Coloured Plates and 600 Engravings. Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, Ss. 6d. Mrs. Beeton's Every-Day Cookery /las the rep^itation of being the best Cookery Book issued at its price, and the Publishers trust that in its enlarged and improved form it may be more acceptable than ever in English-speaking households Infinite pairis have been taken in the pre- paration of this New Edition. Every line has been recomposed, and Three Hundred Pages added, so that the work will, it is hoped, deserve the f raise bestozved upo7i it of being the Bis' afid Cheapest, as well as the most Complete Manual on Cookery and Housekeeping ever offered at anything like the price. 2/6 MRS. BEETON'S ALL ABOUT COOKERY. Enlarged, ' Revised, r^nd thoroughly brought up to date, containing 2.000 Recipes for every branch of Cookery. New Menus for all meals for all months in the year Valuable Coloured Plates and 500 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 450 Pages, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. The hnpi'ovevients and Additions made in the New Edition may be described under the following head. . — The thorough Revision of all the Recipes contained j>n the last Edition—New Recipes for every branch Cookery —The newest modes of serving Dinners and ctner meals shown .n the New Menus —Floral and other pretty Desig.ns for Menu Cards—Table Decorations for all Seasons, being practical suggestions for the Beauty of the Home —The new and beautifully executed Coloured Plates, new Full- page and other Illustrations. A COMPANION VOLUME TO ''MRS. BEETON'S BOOK OF HO US EH OLD MA NA GMENT." MRS. BEETON'S HOUSEWIFE'S TREASURY OF DOMESTIC INFORMATION. With numerous full-page Co- loured and other Plates, and about 600 Illustrations in the Text. Crown 8vo, half-roan, 7s. 6d.; half-calf, 10s. 6d, Among the subjects treated of will be found:—How to Build, Buy, Rent, and Furnish a House.—Taste in the House.—Economical Housekeeping.—Management of Children.—Home Needlework, Dressmaking and Millinery.—Fancy and Art Needlework.—The Toilet.—Modern Etiquette.—Employment of Leisure Hours. *' In the one thousand and fifty-six pages in this marvellous * Home Book * there is 'n.ot one worthless or unnecessary item, not one article we would ever wish to forget."—The Court Journal, 7/6 SYLVIA'S FAMILY MANAGEMENT. A Book of Thrift and Cottage Economy. With numerous Coloured and other Plates and 350 Illustrations in the Text. Medium 8vo, cloth gilt, hevelled boards, 7s.6d. The subjects treated of include: Choice of a Home—Furnishing —Cookery and Housekeeping—Domestic Hygiene—Dress and Clothing—Children—Household Pets and Amusements, &c. &c. From, the SATURDAY REVIEW: " The most important publication, so far as variety of subjects is concerned, which we have yet seen for the benefit of families of small means,**STANDARD COOKERY & HOUSEKEEPING BOOKS. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Ltd. THE COOKERY INSTRUCTOR. By Edith A. Barnett, Examiner to the National Training School for Cookery, &c. Illus- trated. The reasons for Recipes, which are almost entirely omitted in all Modern Cookery Books, are here clearly given. Crown 8vo, c)( th gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Cheap Edition, cloth limp, Is. " The Cookery Instructor, we are sure, will be a boon to thousands. It is simple, concise, intelligible and accurate."—Sheffield Telegraph. GOOD PLAIN COOKERY. By Mary Hooper, Author of "Little Dinners," ''Every Day Meals,'' &c. This work, by an acknowledged Mistress of the Cuisine, is specially devoted to what is generally known as Plain Cookery. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s, 6d, ; Cheap Edition, cloth limp, Is, THE ART OF PASTRY-MAKING: French and English; including Cakes, Sweetmeats and Fancy Biscuits. By Emile Herisse, late Chief Pastrycook-Confectioner. With 40 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, linen boards, bevelled, 2s. dd. The want of a cheap and reliable Book of Recipes for making Pastry has Long been seriously felt by Cooks, I astrycooks and Hovsewives. The author has endeavoured to present^ in a style so plain avd minute as to be perfectly comprehensible to anyone, the nev^est and bes rec?pes, and ihose only uf really practical valine. Every recipe m the book has been thoroughly tested and freqiiently used by the author during twenty years^ practice in London and Paris. MRS. BEETON'S COOKERY BOOK. New and Enlarged Edition, containing upwards of 1,000 Recipes, 360 Engravings, and Four Coloured Plates. Marketing, Vegetarian Cookery, Menus, Table Arrangements, Trussing, Carving, &c,, &c. with Quantities, Time, Cost and Seasons. Crown 8vo, cloth. Is, / cloth gilt, Is, 6d, THE PEOPLE'S HOUSEKEEPER. A Complete Guide to Comfort, Economy and Health. Comprising Cookery, Household Economy, the Family Health, Furnishing, Housework, Clothes, Mar- keting, Food, &c. &c. Post 8vo, cloth, Is, THE ECONOMICAL COOKERY BOOK, for Housewives, Cooks, and Maids-of-all-Work; with Advice to Mistress and Servant. By Mrs. Warren. New Edition, with additional pages and numerous Illustrations. Post 8vo, limp cloth, 6d, THE SIXPENNY PRACTICAL COOKERY AND ECONO- MICAL RECIPES. Comprising Marketing, ReUshes, Boiled Dishes, Vegetables, Soups, Side Dishes, Salads, Stews, Fish, Joints, Sauces, Cheap Dishes, Invalid Cookery, &c. 6d, MRS. BEETON'S SIXPENNY COOKERY BOOK for the people and Housekeeper's Guide to Comfort, Economy and Health. Crown 8vo, linen covers, dd, MRS. BEETON'S COTTAGE COOKERY BOOK. Contain- ing Simple Lessons in Cookery and Economical Home Management. A Guide to Economy in the Kitchen, and a valuable Handbook for Young Housewives. Fcap. Svo, cloth limp, 6d, ; paper covers, 3d, BEETON'S PENNY COOKERY BOOK. Containing more than 200 Recipes and Instructions. Price Id. ; post free, l\d.WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. EDUCATIONAL AND UbKKUL WORKS. Price 7/6 6/- 5/- or 3/6 51- THE BEST WORK FOR SELF-EDUCATOkS. THE UNIVERSAL INSTRUCTOR ; or, Self-Culture for All. A Complete Cyclopaedia of Learning and Self-Education ; meeting the Requirements of all Classes of Students, and forming a Perfect System of Intellectual Culture. With 2,000 Illustrations. In Three Vols., royal 8vo, each 7s. 6d. ; half-calf or half-morocco, 12s, The wovTc is excellent, and it is to he hoped it may meet with the popularity it deserves,'^—Athen^um. THE D9CTOR AT HOME, AND NURSE'S GUIDE BOOK ; A Guide to the Structure and Composition of the Human Body; the Nature, Causes and Treatment of Disease ; its Maintenance in Health and Strength, and the Prolongation of Life ; with special Directions respecting the various Ailments and Disorders of Childhood and Womanhood. Edited by George Black, M.B. Edin., Author of •* First Aid in Accident and Sudden Illness," &c. With Hundreds Of Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth, 900 pages, 6s, " Doctors will be the first to testify to the value of such a work as this."—City Press. "THE PRACTICAL MECHANIC SERIES" OF INDUS- TRIAL HANDBOOKS. Profusely Illustrated. Demy 8vo, strongly bound in cloth, price Ss. 6d. or Ss» each. 1 The Stonemason and the Bricklayer. With Eleven Folding Plates and 224 Illustrations in tlie Text. 5s. 2 The Domestic House Planner and the Sanitary Architect. With Sixteen Folding Plates and Sixty Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 3 The General Machinist. Witli Four Folding Plates and Seventy- five Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 4 The Building and Machine Draughtsman. With Eighteen Folding Plates and 155 Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 5 The Carpenter and Joiner. With Twenty-five Folding Plates and 200 Illustrations in the Text. 5s, 6 The Ornamental Draughtsman; Including Form and Colour. With Nineteen Folding Plates and Illusts. in the Text. 3s,6d, 7 The Iron and Steel Maker. With Five Folding Plates and Thirty- two Illustrations in the Text. 5s. 8 The Cabinet Maker. With Ten Folding Plates and Sixty-Two Illustrations in the Text. 3s. 6d. 9 The Geometrical Draughtsman. With Seven Folding Plates and 126 Illustrations in the Text. 3s. 6d. 10 The Student's Introduction to Mechanics. With 150 Illustra- tions. 5 s. '* The information has been supplied by men who are peculiarly well qualified to speak on the subject ; and if our mechanics and artisans could be induced to master books of this kind, their interest in their daily work would be quickened, and, since skilled labour can always command the Market, their advancement in life would be secured."—The Leeds Mercury. A DICTIONARY OF THE TECHNICAL AND TRADE TERMS of Architectural Design and Building Construction. Being Practical Descriptions, with Technical Details, of the Different Depart- ments connected with the various Subjects ; with derivations of, and French and German equivalents or synonyms for the various Terms. With Explanatory Diagrams. Demy 8vo, cloth, 5s. ** The thoroughly explanatory character of the work gives it a high value, both as a book of reference, and as a practical guide for the young architect and builder. Technicality is shown to be no bar to a perfectly clear description of every term.''—Daily Chronicle.^iJGH-CLASS BOOKS OF REFERENCE. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. Price 30/- 36/- 42/- 7/6 7/6 7/6 A Complete Encyclopedia for Thirty Shillings. Ill Four Vols,, royal 8vo, cloth, SOs. ; strongly bound, half-Persian, 42s. ; half-russia, 60s, ; half-calf, 63s. ; in Six Vols., cloth, 36s, ; half-calf, 54s, BEETON'S ILLUSTRATED ENGYCLOP/EDIA OF UNI- VERSAL INFORMATION. Comprising Geography, History, Biography, Chronology, Art, Science, Literature, Religion AND Philosophy, and containing 4,000 Pages, 50,000 Articles, and Hundreds of Engravings and Coloured Maps. We know of no book which in such small compass gives so nmch information,*'—The Scotsman. ** A perfect mine of information,**—Leeds Mercury. Brought down to the Autumn of 1892. HAYDN'S DICTIONARY OF DATES. Relating to all Ages and Nations ; for Universal Reference. Containing about 12,000 distinct Articles, and 130,000 Dates and Facts. Twentieth Edition, Enlarged, Corrected and Revised by Benjamin Vincent, Librarian of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Medium Svo, cloth, price 18s, / half-calf, 24s, ; full or tree-calf, 31s, 6d, THE TIMES on the 18th Edition :—" We see no reason to reverse or qualify the judgment we expressed upon a former edition, that the 'Dictionary of Dates is the most Universal JBook of Reference in a moderate compass that we know of in the English Lan- gtiage,'* VINCENT'S DICTIONARY OF BIOGRAPHY, Past and Present. Contammg the Chief Events in the Lives of Eminent Persons of all Ages and Nations. By Benjamin Vincent, Librarian of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, and Editor of "Haydn's Dictionary of Dates." In One Vol., medium Svo, cloth, 7s. 6d, / half-calf, 12s. ; full or tree-calf, 18s. "It has the merit of condensing into the smallest possible compass the leading events in the career of every man and woman of eminence, ... It is very carefully edited, and must evidently be the result of constant industry, combined with good judgment and taste."— The Times. H^^YDN'S DICTIONARY OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE. By the late Edwin Lankester, M.D., F.R.S., assisted by Distinguished Physicians and Surgeons. With an Appendix on Sick Nursing and Mothers' Management. With full pages of Engravings. In One Vol., medium Svo, cloth gilt, 7s, 6d. ; half-calf, 12s, ** The best work of its kind.**—Medical Press and Circular *^ The fullest and most reliable work of its kind,**—Liver- tool. Albion. HAYDN'S BIBLE DICTIONARY. For the use of all Readers and Students of the Old and New Testaments, and of the Apocrypha, Edited by the late Rev. Charles Boutell, M.A. With many pages of Engravings, separately printed on tinted paper. In One Vol., medium Svo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 12s, ** Marked by great care and accuracy^ clearness com- bined with brevity, and a vast amount of information which will delight and benefit readers.**—The Watchman.HIGH-CLASS BOOKS OF REFERENCE. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. HOUSEHOLD MEDICINE: A Guide to Good Health, Long Life, and the Proper Treatment of all Diseases and Ailments. Edited by George Black, M.B. Edin. Accurately Illustrated witli 450 Engravings. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 10s, 6d. ; half-calf, 16s, "Considerable is the care which Dr. Black has bestowed upon his work on Household Medicine. He has gone carefully and ably into all the sub jects that can be included in such a volume. . . . The worh is worthy of study and attention, and likely to produce real good,*'— Athenaeum. THE BOOK FOR AMATEURS IN CARPENTRY, ^c, EVERY MAN HIS OWN MECHANIC. Being a Complete Guide for Amateurs in Household Carpentry and Joinery, Orna- mental AND Constructional Carpentry and Joinery, and Household Building, Art and Practice. New, Revised and Enlarged Edition, with about 900 Illustrations of Tools, Pro- cesses. Buildings, &C. Demy 8vo, cloth gilt, price Is, 6d,; half- calf, 12s, " There is a fund of solid information of every kind in the work before us, which entitles it to the proud distinction of being a complete * vade- mecum* of the subjects upon which it treats,**—Tkr Daily Telegraph. BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF THE PHYSICAL SCI- ENCES ; Including Astronomy, Botany, Chemistry, Geology, Elec- tricity, Sound, Light, Heat, &c. With explanatory Engravings. Royal 8vo. cloth gilt, 7s, 6d. ; half-calf, 12s. BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND LAW. With explanatory Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 7*s, 6d. ; half-calf, 12s. BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF INDUSTRIES AND COM- MERCE; Accounts, Agriculture, Building, Banking, Engineering, Mechanism, Mining, Manufactures, Seamanship and Shipping, Steam Engines, and many other Useful Articles. With 300 Explanatory Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s, 6d, BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF LITERATURE, FINE ARTS AND AMUSEMENTS ; Architecture, Books, Heraldry, Journalism, Music, Painting, Sculpture, and many other Subjects pertaining to Culture and general Information. With Explanatory WoodCUts. Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 7s, 6d, The care and labour bestowed on these works have rendered them com- plete and trustworthy Encyclopcedias on the subjects which they include. The latest discoveries., i-ntprovements, and changes have been noticed and duly chronicled in the various articles., and no Pains have been spared to attain at once completeness, clearness, and accuracy in each book. THE INDUSTRIAL SELF-INSTRUCTOR in the leading branches of Technical Science and Industrial Arts and Pro- cesses. With Coloured Plates, and many Hundreds of Working Drawings, Designs, and Diagrams. In Five Vols., demy 4to, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. each. This work, devoted to the spread of Technical Education, appeals to all who take an interest in Mamifactures and Construction, and in the progress and operation of practical Science. Asa useful and interesting book for youths and those engaged in self education, it cannot fail to recom- mend itself, while it will be found a book of useful reference to the general reader. "Promises to be one ©/ the most useful boohs ever issued from the British press.' —Freeman's Joprnal.WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. HELP FOR THOSE WHO HELP THEMSELVES. Price 6/- 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 15/- 18/- 21/- 15/- 18/- 21/- THE THIRD VOLUME OF THE SECOND SERIES OF AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED. A Cyclopaedia of Constructive and Decorative Art and Manual Laboi r. With Folding Supplemeats and hundreds of Engravings in the Text. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, Gs. THE SECOND VOLUME OF THE SECOND SERIES OF AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED. With Folding Supplements and Hundreds of Engravings. Cr. 410, cl. gilt, 7s, 6d, MECHANICAL PASTIMES: Volume 1. of the Second Series of "Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements and Hundreds of Engravings. Crown 410, cloth gilt, 7s* (id. THE AMATEUR MECHANIC. Being the Seventh Volume of "Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements, and about 1,000 Engravings. 7s, 6d» THE AMATEUR'S STOREHOUSE. Being the Sixth Volume of "Amateur Work, Illustrated." Wiiti Folding Sup- plements and about 1,000 Engravings. 7s, 6d. THE HOME WORKMAN. Being the Fifth Volume of "Amateur Wokk, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements and about 1,000 Engravings. 78, 6d, PRACTICAL MECHANICS. Being the Fourth Volume of " Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements and about 1,000 Engravings. 7s. 6d, THE WORKSHOP AT HOME. Being the Third Volume of "Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements, and about 1,000 Engravings. 7s, 6d, MECHANICS MADE EASY. Being the Second Volume of "Amateur Work, Illustrated." With Folding Supplements, and about 1,000 Engravings in the Text. 7s, 6d, AMATEUR WORK, ILLUSTRATED. Vol. L With Folding Supplements and about 1,000 Engravings. 78, 6d, Among the subjects treated of in these Volumes will bs found:— Lathe Making—Electro Plating — JVIodelling in Clay—Organ Building—Clock Making—Photography—Boat Building— Book- binding—Gas Fitting—Tools and Furniture—Veneering—French Polishing—Wood Carving—Plaster Casting—Fret-Work—Decora- tion—Working Drawings—House Painting and Papering—Violin Making—Electric Bells—Brass Casting—Wood Jointing—Brazing and Soldering—Boot Mending and Making—China Painting — House Painting—House Papering—Gilding—Picture Frame Mak- ing—Printing—Pianoforte Tuning—Forge Work — Bird Stuffing and Preserving, &c. &c., with Thousands of Useful Hints. BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF UNIVERSAL INFORMA- TION : Science, Art, Literature, Religion and Philosophy, Comprising about 2,000 pages, 4,000 Columns, 25,000 complete Articles. In Two Vols., royal 8vo, with many Illustrations, 15s. ; half-Persian, 21s, ; in One Vol., half-roan, without Illustrations, ±8s. A most valuable worh of reference.*^—The Times. BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF UNIVERSAL INFORMA TION, relating to Geography, History, Biography, &c. With Maps In Two Vols., royal 8vo, cloth, with many Illustrations, 15s, / haif- Ptrsian, 21s, ; in One Vol., half-roan, without Illustrations, 18s, A conihination of accuracy f cotnpacttiess, compre- hf'.d ^i>'« ttess iittd cheapness.^'—C^i.ASGOw Herald.WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. STANDARD REFEREiNCE BOOKS. Price 10/0 6/- 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 10/6 12/- 12/- 7/- IMPORTANT IVORK ON THE V/OL/N.—SncoNTi Edition. Dedicated by Special Permission to H R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh, VIOLIN-MAKING: As it Was and as it Is. A Historical, Theoretical, and Practical Treatise on the Art, for the Use of all Violin Makers and Players, Amateur and Professional. Preceded by an Essay on the Violin and its Position as a Musical Instrument. By Edward Heron-Allen. With Photograplis, Folding Supplements and 200 Engravings. Demy 8vo, cloth gilt, price 10s. 6d, "A book which all who love to hear or play the instrument will receive with acclamation."—Yorkshire Post. EVERYBODY'S LAWYER (Beeton's Law Book). Eighth and Entirely New Edition, completely Re-written and Re-composed. A Practical Compendium of the General Principles of English Juris- prudence. With copious Index. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s. " The information is set forth in the clearest manner. ... * Every- body's Lawyer' may be trusted to prove most helpful."—The Daily Chronicle. " A volume which really contains a vast storehouse of useful legal lore."—The Liverpool Daily Post, " We know of no work of its kind which is at once so simple, so clear, and so complete."—The Yorkshire Post. BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF GEOGRAPHY: A Universal Gazetteer. Illustrated by Maps—Ancient, Modern, and Biblical, and several Hundred Engravings. Containing upwards of 12,000 distinct and complete Articles. PostSvo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 10s. 6d, BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF BIOGRAPHY. Containing upwards of 10,000 Articles, profusely Illustrated by Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth gilt, 7«. 6d.; half-calf, 10s. 6d. BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF NATURAL HISTORY. Containing upwards of 2,000 Articles and 400 Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.; half-calf, 10s. 6d. BEETON'S BOOK OF HOME PETS: How to Rear and Manage in Sickness and in Health, With many Coloured Plates, and upwards of 200 Woodcuts from designs principally by Harrison Weir. Post 8vo, half-bound, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 10s. 6d, A MILLION OF FACTS of Correct Data and Elemen- tary Information concerning the entire Circle of the Sciences, and on all subjects of Speculation and Practice. By Sir Richard Phillips. Crown Bvo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. ; half-calf, 10s. 6d. THE SELF-AID CYCLOP/EDIA, for Self-Taught Stu- dents. Comprising General Drawing ; Architectural, Mechanical, and Engineering Drawing; Ornamental Drawing and Design ; Mechanics and Mechanism; the Steam Engine. By Robert Scott Burn, F.S.A.E., &c. With upwards of 1,000 Engravings. Demy Svo, half- bound, price 10s. 6d. LAVATER'S ESSAYS ON PHYSIOGNOMY. With Memoir of the Author. Illustrated with 400 Profiles. Royal Svo, cloth, 12s. BROOKES' (R.) GENERAL GAZETTEER; or, Geogra- phical Dictionary. Medium Bvo, cloth, price 12s, BROWN'S (Rev. J.) DICTIONARY OF THE BIBLE. Medium Bvo, cloth, price 7s,WARD & LOCK'S POPULAR DICTIONARIES. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. Price 2/6 51- 51- 61- 3/6 2/6 6/- 51- 3/6 3/6 21- 1/- 2/6 1/- 1/- 21- 1/- 6d. Id. THK STANDARD DICTIONARIES OF LANGUAGE. The Cheapest Derivative Dictionary Published. 2s. 6d, The STANDARD ETYMOLOGICAL DICTIONARY of the ENGLISH LANGUAGE. By Francis Young. Large crown 8vo, cloth gilt, marbled edges, 500 pp., 2s, 6d. ; half-russia, 3s, Illus- trated Edition, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. ; half-roan, 5s. " The work is brought well up to date. . . . Altogether, for its size, it will he found to he the most complete popular Diction- ary of our language yet published.''—Thk Athenaeum. BREWER'S ETYMOLOGICAL & PRONOUNCING DIC- TIONARY OF DIFFICULT WORDS. By the Rev. E. Cobham Brewer, LL.D. Large crewn 8vo, 1,600 pp., cloth, 5s.; half-roan, Os, WEBSTER'S UNIVERSAL PRONOUNCING AND DE- FINING DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Condensed by C. A. Goodrich, D.D. Royal 8vo, half-roan, 5s,; Illustrated Edition, cloth, 6s,; ditto gilt, 7s, 6d.; half-morocco, 10s. 6d.; Smaller Edition, demy Bvo, cloth, 3s. 6d, WEBSTER'S IMPROVED PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Condensed and adapted by Charles Robson. Super-royal i6mo, cloth, 2s, 6d, ; half-roan, 3s, 6d, ; Illustrated Edition, half-morocco, 6s, WALKER AND WEBSTER'S ENGLISH DICTIONARY. With Key by Longmuir. Demy 8vo, cloth, 5s, ; half-roan, 6s, AINSWORTH'S LATIN DICTIONARY, English-Latin and Latin-English. Additions by J. Dymock, LL.D. Super-royal i6mo, cloth, 3s, 6d, NEW FRENCH-ENGLISH AND ENGLISH-FRENCH PRO- NOUNCING DICTIONARY. On the Basis of Nugent. Super- royal i6mo, cloth, 3s, 6d.; small fcap. 8vo, half-roan, 2s,; New Edi- tion, fcap. 8vo, wrapper. Is.; cloth. Is, 6d, WARD AND LOCK'S NEW PRONOUNCING DIC- TIONARY of the ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Crown 8vo, cloth, 300 pp., price Is, ; Thicker Edition, half-roan, 2s. 6d, WEBSTER'S POCKET SHILLING DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Condensed by Charles Robson. Imp. 32mo, cloth, 768 pp., Is, WARD AND LOCK'S SHILLING GERMAN DICTIONARY. Containing German-English and English-German, Geographical Dic- tionary, &c. Crown i6mo, cloth, Is,; demy 32rao, half-roan, WALKER AND WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY. Containing upwards of 35,000 Words. Small fcap. 8vo, cloth. Is,; half-roan, Is, 6d, WEBSTER'S SIXPENNY POCKET PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE. Revised Edition, by W. G. Webster, Son of Noah Webster. Demy 32mo, cloth, 6d, WEBSTER'S PENNY PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY. Containing over 10,000 words. Price Id. ; or linen wrapper, 2d.GARDENING BOOKS. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. THE Standard Gardening Books. Enlarged and Revised Edition. BEETON'S NEW BOOK OF GARDEN MANAGEMENT. A New and Greatly Enlarged Edition, entirely Remodelled and thoroughly Revised; forming a Compendium of the Theory and Practice of Horticulture, and a Complete Guide to Gardening in all its Branches. Profusely Illustrated With Coloured Plates and 600 Engravings. Royal 8vo, very handsomely bound, cloth gilt, bevelled boards, 10s. 6d. Beeton's New Book of Garden Management is a complete and exhaustive work on the Theory and Practice of Gardening in all its Branches^ embodying Full and Detailed Information on every subject that is directly or indirectly connected with the Art, leading up from the preparation of any description of Ground^ to render it fit and suitable for Horticultural purposes^ to the Culture of every kind of Flotver Fruity Vegetable, Herb and Tree that is or can be grown in it. " The work is exceedingly comprehensive .... appears to leave no detail of the subject without adequate treatment.'^— The Daily Telegraph. BEETON'S ILLUSTRATED GARDENING BOOK. A Complete Guide to Gardening in all its Branches, and a reliable com- pendium of the Theory and Practice of Horticulture. With Coloured Plates and Hundreds of Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d, This work is of a most comprehensive character, showing how to Lay Out aitd Stock the Garden, and describing the Cultzire necessary for every Fruit, Flower and Vegetable that is grown in it. The work also treats exhaustively of Sites, Soils and Manures, Sequence of CropSy Garden Carpentry, Tools and Appliances^ Greenhouses, Orchard Houses, &^c. BEETON'S BOOK OF GARDEN MANAGEMENT. The Original Crown 8vo Edition. Embracing all kinds of information con- nected with Fruit, Flower, and Kitchen Garden Cultivation, Orchid Houses, &c. &c. Illustrated with a large number of Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, price ds, ; or in half-calf, 10s. 6d, BEETON'S DICTIONARY OF EVERY-DAY GARDENING. Constituting a Popular Cyclopaedia of the Theory and Practice of Horticulture. Illustrated with Coloured Plates, made after Original Water Colour Drawings, and WoodcutS in the Text. Crown Bvo, cloth gilt, price 3s. 6d. ALL ABOUT GARDENING. Being a Popular Dictionary of Gardening, containing full and practical Instructions in the different Branches of Horticultural Science. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth gilt, price 2s, 6d,GARDENING BOOKS. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. Price 2/6 2/6 V- 1/6 1/- v- 1/- 1/- 1/- V- id. The Standard Gardening Books—cofttinued. THE GARDEN: Its Preparation and Arrangement. Showing and Describing how Gardens are Laid Out ; the Tools and Appliances wanted for Garden Work ; the Structures with which Gar- dens are Furnished and Fquipped. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth, ^s. 6d. WORK IN GARDEN AND GREENHOUSE ALL THE YEAR ROUND. Describing how Gardens are Kept, Stocked and Renewed; Routine Work in Garden and Greenhouse all the year round; the Training, Culture, and Propagation of Trees, Shrubs, Fruits, Flowers, and Vegetables. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth, 28. 6d. BEETON'S GARDENING BOOK. Containing full and prac- tical Instructions concerning general Gardening Operations, the Flower Garden, the Fruit Garden, the Kitchen Garden, Pests of the Garden, with a Monthly Calendar of W«rk to be done in the Garden throughout the Year. With Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth, price Is. ; or cloth gilt, with Coloured Plates, price Is, 6d. HOW TO MAKE A GARDEN. Giving Complete Instruc- tions on the Formation of a Garden. Describing every Operation that is necessary for the Conversion of a piece of Land into a well-arranged Garden. With many Illustrations. Crown Svo, limp cloth, Is, AIDS TO GARDENING: An Exhaustive and Reliable Sum- mary of Articles of all kinds requisite for Garden Work in every branch. With clear and practical Instructions for the Construction, Heating and Ventilation of Glazed Appliances, Fixed and Movable. With many Illustrations. Crown Bvo, limp cloth. Is. THE GARDEN AND ITS WORK FOR EVERY MONTH IN THE YEAR. Setting forth the best Modes and Means of Re- storing worn-out Garden Ground ; the Renovation an^ Regeneration of Fruit Trees ; th« Theory of Plant Life and Grc^^th ; the Methods of Propagation ; the Management of all kinds of Fruit Trees ; and the Gardener's Out-door Work in every Season. With many Illustra- tions. Crown Bvo, limp cloth, Is, GREENHOUSE AND GARDEN. A Complete Summary of the Treatment of Flowers, Fruits and Vegetables under Glass; Direc- tions for Planting and Preserving Ornamental Shrubs and Trees ; the Culture of all kinds of Plants used as Food: Cultural Notes on all Varieties of Flowers ; and Instructions for Window Gardening and Management of Ferns. With many Illustrations. Crown Svo, limp cloth, l8, KITCHEN AND FLOWER GARDENING FOR PLEASURE AND PROFIT. A Practical Guide to the Cultivation of Vegetables, Fruits, and Flowers. With upwards of 100 Engravings. Crown Svo, limp cloth, Is, GLENNY'S ILLUSTRATED GARDEN ALMANAC AND FLORISTS' DIRECTORY. Published Annually, with Engravings of the Year's New Fruits, Flowers, and Vegetables, List of Novelties, Special Tables for Gardeners, Wrinkles for Gardeners, Alphabetical Lists of Florists, &c. &c. Demv Svo, price l8, BEETON'S PENNY GARDENING BOOK. Price Id. § post free, i]^d.WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. NEEDLEWORK BOOKS, Price 7/6 V- 6d. 1/- 10/6 51- 51- 1/- v- Standard Needlework Books. BEETON'S BOOK OF NEEDLEVVORK. Consisting of 670 Needlework Patterns, with full Descriptions and Instructions as to working them. Every Stitch Described and Engraved with the utmost accuracy, and the Quantity of Material requisite for ca-h Pattern stated. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 7s, 6d. SHILLING 1 Tatting Patterns. 2 Embroidery Patterns. 4 Knitting and Netting. NEEDLEWORK BOOKS- 6 Guipure Patterns. 7 Point Lace Book. NEEDLEWORK INSTRUCTION BOOKS Imperial i6mo, ornamental wrapper, price 6d, each. 1 Berlin Wool Instructions. With i8 Illustrations. 2 Embroidery Instructions. With 65 Illustrations. 3 Crochet Instructions. With 24 Illustrations. Sylvias Needlework Books. Crown 8vo, fancy wrappers, profusely Illustrated, price Is, each. 1 The Child's Illustrated Fancy Work and Doll Book. 2 Sylvia's Lady's Illustrated Lace Book. 3 Sylvia's Book of Ornamental Needlework. 4 Sylvia's Illustrated Macrame Lace Book. 5 Sylvia's Art of Church Embroidery. 6 Sylvia's Book of Monograms, Initials, &c. 7 Sylvia's Illustrated Crochet Book. 8 Sylvia's Book of Drawn Linen Work. ART NEEDLEWORK. With full Instructions. Demy 4to, cloth gilt, 10s, 6d, With many Designs and Four Folding Supple- ments. THE LADY'S BAZAAR AND FANCY FAIR BOOK. With 364 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 5s, LADY'S HANDBOOK OF FANCY NEEDLEWORK. Uni- form. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, price 5s. THE KNITTER'S NOTE BOOK. By E M. C, Author of ** The Lady's Knitting Book," &c. Is,; limp, Od. ^K^LSiPLn AND Fancy-Pair Books. Crown 8vo, fancy boards, price Js, each. 1 Sylvia's Book of Bazaars and Fancy-Fairs. 2 Sylvia's New Knitting, Netting, and Crochet Book. 3 Sylvia's Illustrated Embroidery Book. 4 Sylvia's Illustrated Book of Artistic Knicknacks.POPULAR SHILLING MANUALS. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. WARD, LOCK, BOWDEN & CO.'S UNIVERSAL SERIES OF SHILLING USEFUL BOOKS. 1 Beeton's Shilling Cookery Book. With Cold. Plates. 2 Beeton's Shilling Gardening Book. Fully Illustrated. 3 Beeton's Complete Letter Writer, for Ladies and Gentlemen. 4 Webster's Pocket English Dictionary. 5 Beeton's Ready Reckoner. 6 Beeton's Pictorial Spelling Book. 7 Beeton's Family Washing Book. For Fifty-two Weeks. 9 Beeton's Investing Money with Safety and Profit. 13 Webster's Book-keeping. Single and Double Entry. 14 The People's Shilling Housekeeper. 15 Ward and Lock's Pocket English Dictionary. 16 Ward and Lock's English and German Dictionary. 18 Complete Etiquette for Ladies. 19 Complete Etiquette for Gentlemen. 20 Complete Etiquette for Families. 22 Etiquette of Modern Society. 23 Guide to the Stock Exchange and Money Market. 24 Tegg's Readiest Reckoner ever Invented. 25 The Bible Student's Handbook 26 The Complete Shilling Self-Instructor. 28 Speeches and Toasts : How to Make and Propose them. 29 Ward and Lock's New Pronouncing Dictionary. 30 Grammar Made Easy: The Child's Home Lesson Book. 31 Child's First Book of Natural History. Illustrated. 32 Webster's Dictionary of Quotations. With full Index. 33 The Pocket Map of London, and 32,000 Cab Fares. 34 Beeton's Recipe Book. Uniform with Beeton's Cookery. 36 Walker and Webster's English Dictionary. 37 HolidayTrips Round London. Profusely Illustrated. 38 The Holiday Companion, and Tourist's Guide. 39 Ward and Lock's Indestructible ABC. Illustrated. 39AWard and Lock's Indestructible Alphabet. 40 Doubts, Difficulties, and Doctrines. Granville. 41 Beeton's Dictionary of Natural History. Illustrated. 42 The Dictionary of Every-day Difficulties. 43 Webster's Illustrated Spelling Book.POPULAR SHILLING MANUALS. WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. Price I/- Universal Series of Useful Books—continued, 44 Beeton's Book of Songs. New and Improved Edition. 48 The Art of Swimming. By Captain Webb. 49 Elementary Carpentry and Joinery. 257 Illusts. 50 Ornamental Carpentry and Joinery. 271 Illusts. 51 General Building, Art and Practice. 224 Illusts. 52 New Soutli Wales and Queensland. Trollope. 53 Victoria and Tasmania. By Anthony Trollope. 54 South and West Australia. By Anthony Trollope. 55 New Zealand. By Anthony Trollope. 56 Cobbett's English Grammar. Annotated Edition. 57 Cobbett's French Grammar. Annotated Edition. 58 How to Pass Examinations; or, The Candidate's Guide. 60 Professions and Occupations: A Guide for Youths. 61 Common Blunders in Speaking and Writing. 62 Ahn's First Lessons in German. 63 Original Reariings and Recitations. Pemberton. 64 Westhall on Training. (Pocket size.) 66 Moody's Talks on Temperance. (Also cloth, is, 6d.) 67 Intoxicating Drinks: Their History and Mystery. By Dr. Kirton. (Also in cloth gilt, Is* 6d») 68 The Poetry of Flowers. With Illustrations. 69 The Language of Flowers. With Illustrations. 70 Watts's Short View of Scripture History. 71,72,73 Moxon's Penny Readings. Ed. by Hood. 3 Vols. 74 Sun, Moon and Stars: Elementary Astronomy. 75 Tables of the Population of the United Kingdom. 76 Manners of the Aristocracy. By One of Themselves. 77 English Grammar for Self-Learners. L, T. Smith. 78 The Improvement of Modern Dress. 79 Shakespeare's Complete Works. 80 The Book of Recreation and Amusement. 81 The Magic Lantern: Its Construction and Management. 82 Carpenter's Dictionary of Synonyms. 83 Sound, Light and Heat. ByDuNMAN. 135 Illusts. 84 Electricity and Magnetism. By Dunman. 165 Illu.sts. 87 The Elementary Writing Book for Self-Instruction. 88 The Progressive Writing Book for Self-Instruction. 89 The Model Writing Book for Self-Instruction. (Nos. 87, 88, 89, in One Volume, 2s.) 90 The Guide to Health. Ed. by Geo. Black, M.B. lUust. 91 The Household Doctor. Edited by Geo. Black, M.B.POPULAR SHILLING MANUALS. WARD, LOCK ^ BOWDEN, Limited. Price V- 2/6 The Universal Series of Useful Books—continued. 92 Lessons in French. By J. A. L. Kunz. (Also cloth, 2s^ 93 Lessons in German. By H. W. Dulcken, Ph.D. (Also in cloth, 2s.) 94 Our Nurses, and the Work they Have to Do. By H. C. O'Neii.l and E. A. Barnett. (Also cloth, 2s,) 95 Profitable Poultry Keeping. By Mrs. Eliot James. 96 Fret-Sawing and Marquetry Cutting. By D. B. Adarison. Illustrated. (Also cloth, 2s,") 97 Plays for Home Performance. By J. Maddison Morton, Author of '* Box and Cox." 98 The Enquirer's Oracle: What to Do and How to Do It. 99 Good Plain Cookery. By Mary Hooper. 100 French and English Dictionary. 101 The Clerk's Instructor; or, How to Excel in Business. 102 The Good Housewife. With 160 Illustrations. 103 The Family Advice Book. With 200 Illustrations. 104 The Cookery Instructor. By Edith A. Barnett. 105 How to Make a Garden. Illustrated. io5 Aids to Gardening. Illustrated. 107 The Garden and Its Work. Illustrated. 108 Greenhouse and Garden. Illustrated. 109 How to Read Character in Handwriting. By Henry Frith, no Select Plays for Amateurs. Illustrated. 111 Original Plays for the Drawing-Room. Illustrated. 112 Plays for Amateur Actors. Illustrated. 113 Dr. Koch's Cure for Consumption. 114 Work among the Fallen. By the Chaplain of Mill- bank. With Introduction by Archdeacon Farrar. 115 How to Read Character in Faces, Features and Forms. By Henry Frith. 116 Life of Parnell. By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. 117 What to Do With Our Boys and Girls. By Sir Geo. Baden-Powell, Miss Clementina Black, and others. (Also cloth, 2&.) 118 Animal Life: Introduction to Zoology. Bettany. 119 Temperance Summer and Winter Drinks. 600 Recipes. USEFUL HANDBOOKS. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s, 6d. each. 1 Indian Household Management. A Handbook for the Guidance of all Visiting India, By Mrs. Eliot James. 2 Corn and Root Crops : How to Manage Them. must. 3 Country Sports by Flood and Field. A Handbook to every Branch of Rural Recreation. Illustrated. 4 How to Choose and Manage a Farm with Pleasure and Profit. Illustrated. 5 Trees, and How to Grow Them. A Manual of Tree- Culture. Illustrated.WARD, LOCK & BOWDEN, Limited. POPULAR USEFUL BOOKS. Price 1/- 2/6 1/" 3/6 3/6 2/6 THE LONG LIFE SERIES. Edited by George Black, M.B. Edin., Author of " First Aid in Accident and Sudden Illness," &c. Illustrated where necessary. Price Is. per Volume, neatly bound in cloth. 1 Long Life, and How to Reach It. 2 Eyesight, and How to Cane for It. 3 The Throat and the Voice. 4 The Mouth and the Teeth. 5 The Skin in Health and Disease. 6 Brain Work and Overwork. 7 Sick Nursing. 8 The Young Wife's Advice Book. 9 Sleep: How to Obtain It. 10 Hearing, and How to Keep It. 11 Sea Air and Sea Bathing. 12 Health in Schools and Workshops. 13 The Hunnan Body: Its Structure and Design. The Saturday Review says: It is not too much to say 0/ them, as a series, that the shilling invested betimes in each of them may he the means of saving many a guinea.*' LONDON MEDICAL SPECIALISTS: A Classified List of Names and Addresses. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d, BEETON'S LEGAL HANDBOOKS. Crown 8vo, in strong cloth boards, price Is. each. I Property.—2 Women, Children, and Registration.—3 Divorce and Matrimonial Causes—4 Wills, Executors, and Trustees — 5 Transactions in Trade, Securities, and Sureties.—6 Partnership and Joint-stock Companies.—7 Landlord and Tenant, Lodgers, Rates and Taxes.—8 Masters, Apprentices, Servants, and Working Contracts.—9 Auctions, Valuations, Agency, Games and Wagers.— II Conveyance, Travellers, and Innkeepers.—12 Powers, Agree- ments, Deeds and Arbitrations.—13 The County Court Handbook. —14 The Householder's Law Book.—15 The Licensing Laws.—16 The Married Women's Property Act, 1882.—17 The Bankruptcy Act, 1883.—18 The New Reform Act. ORGAN BUILDING FOR AMATEURS. A Guide for Home Workers. Containing Specifications, Designs and full Instructions for Making every portion of the Instrument. By Mark Wicks. With upwards of 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. We have seldom met with a more clear, concise and exhaustive little treatise than this.'*—Manchester Guardian. FISHING TACKLE: Its Materials and Manufacture. By John Harrington Keene, Author of " The Practical Fisherman," &c. With 254 Explanatory Diagrams. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, Ss. 6d, ** All anglers who are wise will find a niche for it in the sanctum. It is a positive pleasure to recommend so Unassuming and meritorious a book."—Athen^um. THE MAGIC LANTERN: Its Construction and Manage- ment. With 80 Engravings. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d,