109 PENETRATING OR PERFORATING. and might probably be accounted for by soldiers placing tlie left side more forward when in the act of firing, supposing that the wounds were received when in this position. This appears, however, not to be the case, but is to be attributed to wounds of the right side of the abdomen being more fatal than those on the left, in consequence of the liver occupying so much space on that side; for on examining the wounds in the thorax re- ceived from India, out of nineteen I find that fifteen were wounded on the right, and only four on the left side. The following three very interesting cases of gunshot wound of the sigmoid flexure of the colon are examples of this lesion. 32nd Regiment.—Private Cornelius Hogan,* set. 34, wounded June 20th, 1857, at Lucknow, in the left hip, an inch and a half below the crest of the left ilium, and nearly midway be- tween the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium and the spinous process of the back. The ball entered and must have passed into or wounded the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and is supposed still to remain in, as it has never, as far as the man knows, been passed by stool. For twenty-two days he passed his fieces entirely through the opening, but since then he has never passed any feculent matter through the wound, but only flatus; this also has ceased for the last fortnight, but there is still a considerable discharge of purulent matter, and he complains of pain in the back. He was transferred from Fort Pitt to Yarmouth Hospital, July 4th, 1858, and from thence was sent to the depot of his regiment, which he joined on October 28th. He was tried by court-martial on December 9th, and was sentenced to forty-two days' imprisonment at Fort Clarence, with such labour as the surgeon in charge con- sidered him capable of performing without risk. Previous to appearing before the surgeon he had undergone an hour’s short drill, which caused the wound to reopen. He was consequently sent to the garrison hospital, and was transferred to Fort Pitt, January 29th, 1859, with fseces still passing through the wound. March 13th, 1859.—Wound healed, and he enjoys good health; but has been invalided as being unfit for further service. * This case is noticed in the ‘Edinburgh Monthly Journal’for December, 1858, by Assistant-Surgeon Chaumont.