160 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. hollow on tlie anterior and inner side of the tibia, with two sinuses leading inwards, but no bone could be detected in this direction. There is a third sinus on the inner side of the tibia, where bare bone can be felt. He cannot bear much weight upon the limb, and the ankle-joint is stiff for want of use. December 22nd.—Unfit for service. Invalided. The next case is a fracture of tibia, followed by anchylosis of the ankle-joint. GOth ltifies (1st Battalion).—John Flynn, mt. 21, wounded at Delhi, June 19th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered the inner side of the left tibia, two inches above the ankle-joint, and probably passed out at the external malleolus. Several pieces of bone came away from the entrance wound. July 20th.—"Wound healed, skin adherent to tibia, ankle-joint partially anchylosed. The following fatal case is an example of an extensive com- minuted fracture which had united, but the bone became diseased:—Royal Artillery.—Gunner John Abbcrley. This man was admitted into hospital at Gravesend, being unable to proceed to Chatham with the remainder of the men. He was wounded by a musket ball at Lucknow, the ball striking the upper third of the bone, under the attachment of the ligamen- tum patellne, and carrying away a large portion of the bone. When taken on board ship, the wound was said to be about the size of a five-shilling piece, with the bone exposed in the centre, but looking healthy. Gangrene made its appearance about three weeks after sailing. When disembarked, the whole of the soft parts of the anterior surface of the leg between the wounded part and the ankle was one large slough, coming away with the dressings. The whole bone was exposed, the soft part on each side sloughy, blackened, and that offensive smell pecu- liar to the disease was present. Was emaciated in the extreme, and only kept up by the administration of stimulants to the hour of his death, which took place July 3rd, 1858. Post mortem.—Body. Much emaciated. Thorax. Old pleuritic ad- hesions between costal pleura and left lung; both lungs healthy and crepitant; heart and pericardium healthy. Abdomen. Liver healthy; stomach and intestines healthy, as also the re- maining viscera. No. 3628. Right tibia, showing a compound comminuted fracture at its upper third, two inches below the