T ) GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP TITE CHEST. 75 ball rolling about in the chest and on the diaphragm can be ascertained (as also the presence of fluid) by percussion and auscultation, and decides the place where the opening into the chest should be made, which is generally between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, unless the original wound is in a dependent position, when it should be reopened. In perforating gunshot wounds of the chest, the wound may or may not bleed, and there may be only slight expectoration. Although the presence of blood in the expectoration may be looked upon as pretty sure evidence of injury to the lung, still its absence is no proof that the lung has not been wounded; respiration may be difficult, extremities cold, pulse weak, and countenance pale, but much depends upon the extent or nature of the injury and the peculiar constitution of the patient. When the wound is too small to admit of examination by the finger, it ought to be enlarged, so that the surgeon may ascer- tain whether the ribs have been injured, or whether any extra- neous matter is lodged. The splintered portions of the rib and any foreign body should be removed, and the sharp ends of the fractured ribs rounded off, but all unnecessary probing should be avoided. Wounds of the lung become more dangerous as they approach the root, on account of the vessels being larger. The bruised and lacerated tract of the ball bleeds more or less according to the size of the vessel injured. Generally, more or less blood is spit up, and when it is effused into the cavity of the chest it gravitates to the posterior part, or on to the diaphragm, accord- ing to the position of the patient. When the wound is closed and the effused blood accumulates, the lung becomes gradually compressed, until the haemorrhage ceases from the pressure. Should the effusion take place to such an extent as to endanger life from asphyxia, the wound should be reopened or the chest should be punctured with a trochar. When it becomes necessary to make an opening into the cavity of the chest for the evacuation of blood, purulent fluid, or air, the operation can be performed as follows:—The patient having been placed in a sitting position and the chest supported, an incision should be made, commencing about two inches from the spinous processes of the vertebrae, over the intercostal