COMPOUND FRACTURE OP FEMUR. 119 admission there were two openings between the hamstrings; his general health was very bad, and he died after ten weeks' treatment. No. 2935.—Lower half of the femur, exhibiting necrosis of the anterior circumference of its shaft. The sequestrum is rough on the surface, and loosely contained in a cavity, formed by an abundant deposit of new bone, which is pierced by numerous foramina. From a gunshot injury. The preparation No. 294-1 shows a gunshot fracture of the lower third of the femur, which is fractured obliquely, and comminuted; a portion is driven into the medullary canal. The margin of both fragments shows the action of the absorb- ents ; there is a line marking the portion of bone in process of separation, and partly necrosed along the margin of the fracture. Secondary amputation was performed at the upper third. The preparation No. 2931 (Plate VIII, fig. 1) is an example of a round leaden bullet, producing an oblique fracture through the great trochanter, and becoming firmly imbedded in the can- cellous structure of this tuberosity. An illustration of a grape shot lodging in bone without splin- tering, or even causing a fissure, is No. 2932 (see Plate VIII, fig. 2) , where there is a cavity at the base of the great trochan- ter, containing a grape shot, which is quite loose, the cavity being considerably larger than the ball. Five cases were admitted after March, 1859, of which the following are the detailed histories:— In the first case, it is impossible at the present time, noiv nineteen months after the injury, for a surgeon to say whether immediate amputation ought to have been performed, but it ap- pears to testify to the great advantages and superiority of the dooley over every other means of conveyance for cases of gunshot fracture of the femur; as there can be no question that this patient could not have survived such repeated removals by any other method of conveyance. 8th Regiment (1st Battalion).—Private William Cunningham, set. 31, on the 11th September, 1857, at Delhi, in the trenches, received a gunshot comminuted fracture of the left femur; the ball entered on the outer aspect, some seven and a half inches below the trochanter, and has never been found, lie states that