130 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. almost certain to follow. Occasionally there is great comminu- tion of bone and loss of substance. In some instances as much as two or three inches of the shaft may be removed, on account of splinters or necrosis, and, in these cases, there is eventually more or less contraction of the fingers and consequent impaired use of the forearm and hand, so as to render the men unfit for service. Occasionally the fracture remains ununited, although the ends of the bone are in contact; sometimes the ball is sup- posed to be lodged and impacted in the bone, and when cut down upon, cannot be found. Ligature of the radial artery may be required to be performed either immediately after the wound, or on account of sloughing. The following is a case of fracture of the radius, with proba- ble injury of the median nerve. 88th Regiment. —Private Robert Buchanan, set. 20, wounded November 26th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered on the anterior surface of the fore- arm, about three inches below the elbow-joint, and passed out on the posterior surface, opposite to the place of entrance ; the radius was fractured, and several pieces of bone have come away; the median nerve has also, probably, been wounded. July 11th, 1858.—He has now completely lost the power of motion and sensation in the hand, which hangs powerless by the side, and the lower extremity of the ulna projects as if the hand was partly dislocated. July 31st.—Invalided. The next case is one of severe comminution, with loss of about two and a half inches of the shaft of the bone. 60th Rifles (1st Battalion).—Private John Kerr, aet. 19, wounded at Delhi, June 14th, 1857, by a musket ball, causing a compound comminuted fracture of the right radius about its middle, doing also much injury to the flexor tendons; several pieces of bone were taken away at the time. July 20th, 1858.—Wound healed; there is loss of a portion of the shaft of the radius for about two and a half inches; he cannot use the fingers, or pro- nate or supinate the hand. July 21st.—Invalided. No. 2926.—Radius, the shaft of which has been fractured by a gunshot, and reunited by new osseous matter, and firmly con- solidated thereby to the ulna. Ulna.—The same injuries are liable to take place to the ulna as to the radius, and occasionally ligature of the radial or ulnar