115 LESION OE THE SPINAL COED. unable to sit upright, and he has lost considerable power over the limbs; has incontinence of urine. Invalided 29th September, 1858. 24th.—Private Patrick Farrell, jet. 30, wounded 7th July, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered on the right side of the third lumbar vertebra, two inches from the spinous processes, passed across the back, and made its exit a little below the centre of the crest of the left ilium; several pieces of bone came away from the aperture of exit. August 2nd.—Aperture of entrance is healed; that of exit is still discharging, leading down to diseased bone. There is some thickening over the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Undisposed of. Pelvis.—Balls sometimes pass across from one side of the pelvis to the other, without entering the cavity. When a ball is allowed to remain in any of the bones of the pelvis, it is the source of great annoyance, and gives rise to disease of the bones, profuse discharge, and probable death. When a ball lodges or is impacted in the flat bones, incisions ought at once to be made through the muscular substance for its removal. Lesion of the Spinal Cord. When the spinal cord is injured, either by gunshot, disloca- tion, or fracture, there is, in general, partial or general paraly- sis in some of the parts below the seat of the injury. The ball should, if possible, be removed. The patient should be placed on an air or water-bed, and kept scrupulously clean and quiet, the urine drawn off by the catheter, and every means taken to prevent sloughing of the back and nates. None were admitted from India; but the following cases from preparations in the Museum illustrate this injury. No. 2912.—Dorsal portion of the spine, showing a bullet lodged in the canal. The ball appears to have entered exactly through the centre of the arch, which, with the spinous process, is partly broken away. From a sergeant of the 5th Dragoons, who was shot by a private of the regiment. No. 2913.—Is from Private R. Greive, 3rd Light Dragoons, who was wounded at Rhamnuggur, November 21st, 1849, by a