< 31 GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING 53rfl Regiment.—Private John O’Donnell. Wounded at Cawnpore, December 6th, 1857, by a musket ball, which struck iiim on the head, a little to the left of the sagittal suture, on the upper and hack part of the left parietal bone, close to that suture; ball extracted immediately after; exfoliation of bone took place. July 13th, 1858.—Wound healed; there is now a deep depression capable of holding a cherry ; the whole thick- ness of the skull seems to have come away, still the pulsation of the brain could not be felt; complains of pain in the head; remains undisposed of. 78th Regiment.—Private John Halliday received a gunshot wound in the head whilst on service in Oude, in July, 1857. The slugs, or pieces of telegraph wire, with which the wound was inflicted, struck the left parietal bone near the temporal ridge, carrying away a large portion of the scalp and boue; other pieces of bone have been extracted since the receipt of the wound, leaving a large, irregular opening, about two inches in diameter, through which the brain may be seen pulsating. Mental faculties clear; has shown no symptoms of cerebral ex- citement ; the immediate cause of death was chronic hepatitis and ascites. Died May 29th, 1858, at Gravesend. Post-mortem; general appearance of body.—Abdomen and scrotum distended with fluid; both legs and feet very oedematous; a large cicatrix on the left side of the head, about three inches above and behind the ear. Head. — On removing the scalp over the wounded part, a small quantity of bloody pus oozed from around a small portion of necrosed bone near the temporal suture, and an opening in the skull was exposed, about the size of a shilling, having a fibrous covering, which alone (separated the brain from a thin cicatrix of scalp. The edges of the opening were cartilaginous, and the bone around was rough and irregular; a considerable portion of the adjoining outer table of the skull was apparently carried away at the time he was wounded. The following specimen shows the result of a severe contu- sion and fracture from a round shot, with slight depression of the internal table, five and a half years after the injury, with actual bonj union of displaced fragments, and a depression of the contents of the cranium. No. 2884.—Portion of the left