SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 227 In the Crimean war “ 22 operations in all were done on the elbow-joint, of which 3 ended fatally, and 2 more deaths took place after secondary amputation; in all, a total of 5 deaths, or 22 per cent, of the cases treated. This per-centage slightly ex- ceeds that of resection of the shoulder-joint, but in both in- stances resection afforded a much more favorable result as to the mortality than amputation.” Excision of the entire Ulna and the wthole of the Articulation of the Elbow-joint. In the following case, on which I recently operated on account of disease — and where I took away the whole of the ulna, two inches of the humerus, and the head and neck of the radius close to the tubercle—the man can now (four months after the operation) bend his forearm, raise his hand behind his head, and lift a twenty-eight pound weight from the ground; he can also pronate and supinate the hand; there is no anchylosis of the wrist-joint, and he can use his fingers well. This case also shows the large amount of bone which can be removed from the upper extremity compatible with the patient regaining a very useful arm and hand; and although not re- sulting from a gunshot wound, still it appears of sufficient in- terest to be given here. Staff Armourer Sergeant II. W—, set. 26, two years and a half in the service, of which five months were in China. He is of healthy appearance. Was admitted into the General Hospital, Hong Kong, in August, 1857, immediately after his arrival from England, with symptoms of acute hepatitis and pleuritis. Active depletion was had recourse to, and calomel and opium administered, which produced salivation, and the disease was arrested; on the 3rd of September a large phlegmonoid tumour was found near the elbow-joint, which was opened, and a large quantity of matter evacuated. From that time the ulna be- came permanently enlarged, extensive necrosis took place, and a few spiculse of bone came away. He was admitted into Fort Pitt Hospital on the 1st of August, 1858, with numerous sinuses along the inner side of the left ulna, extending down to