27 EEACTUKE AND COUNTER-FRACTTJBE. arachnoid, which has been ruptured by the fracture. When a fissure extends through the arachnoid or sphenoid bones, and the arachnoid cavity is opened, the watery fluid may be dis- charged by the nose. The hearing, in some cases, remains good, where the fracture does not pass through or much injure the auditory apparatus, even while the watery fluid flows from the ear. No. 2797.—Skull of an English artilleryman, who was killed by falling over a precipice near Sebastopol. A fissure extends from the centre of the right parietal upwards and backwards to the posterior part of the sagittal suture; the left side of the lambdoidal suture is considerably loosened. No. 2798.—Cranium exhibiting extensive fracture. The fracture extends from the squamous portion of the right tem- poral bone through the mastoid and petrous portion, crossing the auditory canal from behind forwards into the sphenoid and ethmoid bones. There is also a fissure traversing the occiput close behind the condyles, from one mastoid process to the other. The trephine was applied to the anterior and inferior part of the right parietal bone, when the greater part of the squamous portion of the temporal was removed. The dura mater was separated from the bone in the right temporal fossa, forming a cavity as large as an orange, which was filled with blood partly coagulated. The central meningeal artery was torn throughout two inches of its course. The dura mater was also separated from the occipital bone throughout its whole extent, forming a cavity which contained three ounces of semi-coagu- lated blood; at these places the brain was much compressed. Caused by a heavy cart having passed over the patient’s head. He died soon after the operation. Brickaram, an Indian labourer.—A heavy cart having passed over his head on the 27th of May, 1840, was immediately taken to the civil hospital, Mauritius, where he arrived in a state of stupor. There was a laceration and contusion of the scalp over the right temple, with tumefaction of the cheek and side of the neck. On the integuments being directed back, an extensive fracture, extending towards the base of the skull, and depression of the temporal bone, was discovered. The trephine was applied, after which a large triangular portion of the