95 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OE THE DIAPHEAGM. the afternoon of the 16th, gradually became weaker, and died on the 18th February, it being eight days from the time lie was first attacked with vomiting, and twelve months from the time he was wounded. The treatment consisted first of an emetic, with a blister over the spleen. Afterwards full doses of calomel and opium, morphia, and hydrocyanic acid, fre- quently repeated, castor-oil combined with croton-oil, both by the mouth and injections, turpentine injections and fomen- tations to the abdomen, hot baths, and hot bottles to his feet, and beef-tea injections, were the remedies administered. Post-mortem examination thirty hours after death.—External appearances. Body stout and well formed; skin shrivelled, more particularly that of the hands and feet; features con- tracted and indicative of a person having died under great suf- fering ; muscles rigid. Cranium. About one ounce of fluid at the base of the brain; veins of the pia mater congested, as also those of the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses; section of the brain presented many bloody points; weight of brain, 3 lbs. Thorax. The structure of both lungs was healthy; the poste- rior part of the right was attached to the chest by adhesions of long standing; the heart was of its natural size, and its struc- ture healthy. Abdomen. On tracing the small intestines, five intussusceptions were found, the first situated a foot and a half from the duodenum, and the other four were generally from eight to ten inches apart. The portion intussuscepted was in each about two inches; there was no vascularity or conges- tions in the intussusceptions, or any of the abdominal viscera. Both portions of the stomach, viz., the part in the chest and the part in the abdomen, contained a quantity of dark fluid, mixed with portions of food and medicine. The duode- num and upper part of the jejunum, as far as the first intussus- ception, was distended with flatus; the small intestines below the invagination although not distended, but in their normal condition, were coated with mucus tinged with bile. The caput caecum and ascending colon, to where it entered the chest, were distended, and contained a quantity of fluid and hardened faeces. The transverse arch of the colon was dis- tended with flatus and some feculent matter; the descend- ing colon and rectum were empty; liver healthy, weight,