242 TRANSPORTATION OP SICK AND WOUNDED. however, the greatest comfort that can he attached to an army in India. Suppose the arrangements arc for 500 sick and wounded, 300 doolies should be attached to a field hospital, and more could he obtained when required; and with the addition of twenty good four-bullock covered hackeries for the conveyance of the slighter cases of sick and wounded, the whole can be easily carried on the line of march. Dooly-bearers.—For 300 doolies the following establishment of bearers is required : 1 chowdry and native writer (of English) in one person. 18 sirdar bearers. 3G mate bearers. 1800 bearers, that is, 6 to each dooly. The only men that are to be depended upon arc those from Bengal, Bareilly, Oude, or Oawnpore; those from the Punjaub are quite unaccustomed to carry our description of dooly, and are also totally untrustworthy, and are certain to desert at the time they are most required. On the line of march the doolies ought to be kept well together, otherwise the bearers, instead of attending to their duty, straggle all over the country in quest of plunder, fire- wood, &c. When they receive only four rupees a month, with one rupee extra in the field, they are certain to desert when their duties become in any way arduous or dangerous, or when the price of provisions become high, as it usually does on a distant campaign; but when seven or eight rupees per month is given, their services may be depended upon under all circum- stances, and there need be no fear of their ever deserting. The bearers arc usually collected in parties or goles from different districts, and generally join the army in the goles or companies; each gole should, if possible, consist of 1 sirdar, 2 mates, and 96 bearers, with 16 doolies, all numbered and registered; and each gole ought to be held responsible for the doolies thus made over to them. Plate XI represents the description of dooly which is used for the conveyance of the sick and wounded in India. The dooly forms in the field the patient’s bed, as well as means of conveyance from the time of his being wounded until he is either cured or the case terminates fatally. There are two