196 AMPUTATION OP THE Amputation of tiie Thumb, Fingers, and Toes. The following remarks upon amputation of the fingers and toes were published in the ‘ Medical Times’ for May, 1848. Since then I have had frequent opportunities of seeing the ad- vantage of the methods recommended, and therefore think that it will not be out of place to insert them here :— “ During the last seven years I have been in the habit of operating in the manner about to be described. None of the methods are strictly new, but are modifications of those gene- rally performed. They appear, however, to possess several advantages. “ If a portion of a finger is to be removed at the articulations of the phalanges, a common, narrow, sharp-pointed bistoury is pushed from one side of the finger to the other in front of the joint and the flap made; the knife is now laid perpendicularly upon the lateral ligament, then brought across the joint, and the other lateral ligament cut. By this proceeding the joint is at once opened, and nothing remains but to divide the skin posteriorly. In amputating between the first and second pha- langes, transfixion is made opposite to the large fold in the in- teguments in front, and the joint is at once come upon, as the two exactly correspond. “ The articulation between the second and third phalanges is one line in front of the fold. By cutting into the joint poste- riorly there is always considerable difficulty in getting the knife between the bones, so as to make the flap in the palmar aspect. In consequence of the extensor tendon having been divided, the flexor contracts and drags the phalanx which is to be removed in front of the one which remains. The flap in the palmar aspect being made first, that difficulty is avoided, and the operation is performed with more rapidity and ease. In removing the whole of the finger the method adopted is this :—The point of the knife is laid on the skin half an inch above the articulation, carried down straight over it, and then brought by the side of the finger into the large fold in front