OR PERFORATION OF THE LARGER JOINTS. 169 cut out at the same place the following day; abscesses formed around the joint. 2nd. By a musket hall on the inner side of the left-knee; a flesh wound. July 13th.—The wounds are all healed, and the elbow-joint anchylosed. There is one large cica- trix on the inner side, adherent. August 5, 1858.—Invalided. In the next case the joint was anchylosed, and there was also an injury of the ulnar nerve. 52nd Regiment.—Private James Marshall, set. 27, wounded at Delhi, September 14, 1857, by a pistol ball, which passed through the elbow-joint. It entered close to the outer side of the olecranon process, and between it and the external condyle, and passed through the olecranon, and made its exit on the inner side of this process, close to the ulnar nerve. There was a discharge of synovia from the wound for some days. July 20tli.—Wound healed; elbow- joint bent and anchylosed. Has lost the sensation of the little and one half of ring fingers. July 22nd, 1858.—Invalided. The following is a case of wound of the joint, complicated with fracture of the shaft of the humerus. Elbow-joint anchy- losed, and the arm in a straight position. 61st Regiment.— Private M. Dunne, aged 38, wounded at Delhi, July 9th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered through the centre of the right deltoid muscle, and passed downwards, fractur- ing the humerus about its centre, and made its exit at the elbow-joint, where it also appears to have wounded the joint and fractured the olecranon process of the ulna. The arm was placed upon a straight splint. Both apertures of entrance and exit soon healed, but considerable inflammation of the arm and elbow-joint ensued, which was relieved by free incisions. Sep- tember 5th, 1858.—Wounds made by musket ball healed. There are two sinuses on the outer aspect of the arm, about its centre, leading down to necrosed bone. The fracture at this point is united; the forearm is in a straight position, and the elbow- joint anchylosed. The arm is about one and a half inches shorter than the other. January 13th, 1859.—Invalided. Hip-joint. No case of wound of this joint arrived from India. There is a preparation in the Museum, No. 2930, where the old ball