WHEEL CARRIAGES. 215 Elephants.—To every hospital in India there arc a certain number of elephants attached, for the conveyance of convales- cents, sick, or men with slight ailments, and they are very pleasant, easy, and excellent means of transport. Camels are usually employed only as beasts of burden, as from their peculiar gait their pace is not well adapted for wounded men. Indeed, I have known a soldier (a noted malingerer) placed upon a camel as a punishment when he refused to march, and not being accustomed to the motion, he soon begged to be allowed to get down and to take his place in the ranks. In a hilly country, such as the Punjaub, it has been recom- mended by C. Renny, Esq., late Superintending Surgeon, Army of the Punjaub, that kajawahs, carried on camels, would be the proper conveyance for the sick—that is, as extra carriage beyond a full provision of doolies, not that the former can be compared with the latter, but from the necessity of the case. These kajawahs are made so as to hold with ease two men, one on each side, stretched at full length, affording such ease as this kind of conveyance can give. A train of (in India) 100 or 200 camels, provided with such kajaAvahs, would render a large army inde- pendent of the impediments of great casualties in the field, Four bullock hackeries, covered, are, however, better than these, and carrying only five men each, and with good bullocks, they can easily keep up with the movements of the army. III. Wheel Carriages, or those drawn by Horses, Mules, Bullocks, &c. Baron Percy describes an ambulance, with four wheels, of a very simple construction, and Baron Larey invented two spring- waggons, one with two, and another with four wheels. Dr. Mil- langen proposed a long carriage, resembling an Irish jaunting- car, to be drawn by two horses, capable of containing twelve men, seated back to back, for those wounded in the upper part of the |)0dv,—without fracture of the lower extremity. Mr. Cherry proposed a light single-horse cart, so constructed as to be readily adapted either for the conveyance of wounded men or for the carriage of stores or provisions.