xvm INTRODUCTION. wanted, it will be asked for.’ Accordingly, nothing was done, but when the men were down with sickness, as had been predicted, then the doctor was sent for, but it was too late. Now it is very different. He had just been reading a letter from the Adjutant-General with the army in China. It con- veyed the most gratifying accounts of the present excellent- condition, as to health, of the China force, and it showed how much benefit had arisen from the appointment of a Sanitary Inspector. This was the first time such an appointment had been made. It was one of the new regulations, and was the result of the recommendation of the Royal Commission. “ He believed that no men now were more anxious to enforce and carry out sanitarv measures for those under their command than the military officers. It had been anticipated that such would be the result. “ Great advantages were now enjoyed by medical officers over their predecessors. Their position, especially in the earlier part of their career, had been greatly improved by the new warrant. Their rank, pay, and influence had all been aug- mented. The country would now naturally look for some return for these advantages, and he trusted the gentlemen now present would endeavour, on their part, to profit to the greatest extent by the advantages the Government have afforded them in the establishment of this school. If they showed, by their in- creased intelligence and zeal, that they were worthy of these advantages, the country would not grudge the cost, but they would be expected to prove tlieif superiority to justify the outlay, and he felt certain that they would do so. He concluded by wishing them every success and happiness in their new career.” The Director-General of the Army Medical Department said, that, as the head of the department to which the candi- dates belonged, he, too, would say a few words on this im- portant occasion. “ He hoped especially that they would profit from the remarks of the Right Honorable the Secretary for War, to whom the institution of this school was mainly owing. He trusted, also, that they would continue to give satisfaction to the General who commanded them, and to the Principal Medical Officer of the station. He observed that, after the