LOWER EXTREMITIES. 201 so as to form a flap about the same length as the anterior, and thus the entire limb is removed. The superficial femoral and other vessels having been compressed, are now secured as speedily as possible by ligature. The want of leverage in gun- shot fractures of the neck of the femur makes it much more difficult to disarticulate the head of the bone. It might be more judicious in such cases, after having made the first and second flaps by transfixion (as in amputation of the thigh by anterior and posterior flaps), and then, if it were possible, to apply the saw to the bone above the fracture. If this cannot be done, the head of the bone should be dissected out, after the main portion of the limb at the frac- tured part had been removed, and the vessels secured. In certain cases it is impossible to determine the condition of the head and neck of the femur, and in these cases it is necessary for the surgeon to decide whether it would not be better to am- putate through the trochanters, where the fracture has taken place, and afterwards to remove the head of the bone. The head of the bone, under these circumstances, can be seized by a pair of strong forceps, and turned in the required direction, so as to expedite the application of the knife to the capsular liga- ment, and afterwards a slight twist will cause its disarticulation. The following case is interesting, as being, perhaps, the first successful case of amputation at the hip-joint after a gunshot fracture :—No. 2929.—Head of the femur removed by amputa- tion at the hip at Brussels after the battle of Waterloo. The fracture extends obliquety downwards from the neck of the bone through the shaft, leaving the trochanter minor only attached to the head of the femur.—Donor, Mr. Guthrie, D.I.G. This specimen was taken from Francois de Gay, Private in the 45th Regiment of French Infantry. He was wounded at the battle of Waterloo by a musket ball, which entered behind, fractured the neck of the femur, and made its exit anteriorly, about four inches below the groin. He was admitted into the Elizabeth Hospital, July 5th, 1815, much exhausted. In addition to his wounds, which had put on a sloughing appearance, he suffered from an extensive sore on the sacrum, which was caused by lying on the wet ground for five days. Amputation was per- formed on the 7th, nineteen days after the injury. In Sep-