DESCRIPTIVE NUMERICAL RETURN. xxiii inclined to think would be found of great advantage and assistance to medical officers in filling up their classification of wounded, and also for future reference in making up and comparing the results of different wars. One of these blank registers should he sent to every regiment and surgeon in the service. Previous to September, 1856, the “Army Medical Returns” did not provide any classification of gunshot wounds beyond the common heading, “Vulnus Sclopetorum.** The Returns published on the surgery of the Crimean war was, however, drawn up according to Mr. Taylor’s classification. Mr. Taylor states in his explanatory observation :* “ The necessity for some such classification as that now proposed is obvious upon re- ferring to the Returns furnished daring the Peninsular war. These will be found nearly uninteresting and uninstructive, in consequence of the want of due distinction amongst wounds of wholly different nature and quality. In wounds of the head, chest, and abdomen, no distinction is made between simple flesh wounds of these regions, and injuries of the more im- portant viscera. The Returns do not even distinguish be- tween incised and gunshot wounds, which are of such totally different value in the same parts. All kinds of wounds seem brought together simply as f surgical cases;* and in some of the Returns of capital operations, it is not clear whether fingers and toes have or have not been included under the terms ‘ upper* and ‘ lower extremities.* ** The men, on arrival from the long sea voyage from India, had recovered their general health, and the greater number of them had their wounds healed. The tabular form, completed and closed up to the 30th of June, 1859, shows that the total number of wounded which had arrived up to this date was 842 ; of these, 302 have been sent to duty; 119 to modified duty ;t 13 invalided; 8 died. * ‘A classification of Wounds and Injuries received in Action, prepared for use in Military Hospitals.’ By J. R. Taylor, C.B., D.I.G., Camp before Sebastopol, June 25th, 1856. f An order, dated 29th August, 1859, was received from the Assistant Adjutant- General, stating that men who had been wounded, and so far disabled as to be unfit for the active duties of a soldier, might still be very efficient as orderlies, messengers, elerhs, &c., and were to be retained in the service for that purpose;