NECROSIS. 19 Eleven cases of this description of injury were admitted from India, of whom six were sent to duty and five invalided for other diseases. In all of them, small portions of the external table of the skull came away necrosed. The scalp was not ad- herent to the bone in any of them. The brain and meninges appear readily to support loss of bone by caries and necrosis, and to accommodate themselves to a denudation of osseous covering, which takes place gradually, whilst forcible removal by gunshot injury and operation is more generally resented. The following cases are good examples of this tolerance of loss of bone caused by necrosis. No. 2895. — Three por- tions of necrosed parietal bone; the sequestrse embrace the entire thickness of the bone. The number of square inches of bone removed is about five and a half inches, and was taken from the superior and posterior angles of both parietal bones (see Plate I, fig. 1), from Thomas Walker, set. 22, 95th Regiment; total service, five years; was danger- ously wounded on the crown of the head at the battle of Inker- mann, on the 5th of November, 1854, by a large fragment of a shell, Avhicli struck him on the vertex, producing a large lacerated wound, with extensive comminuted fracture of the upper and posterior third of each parietal bone. Immediately on being struck he fell down senseless, but got up again, and walked to- wards the Russian lines, in a semi-unconscious state, which he had nearly reached when he was perceived by two Baslii Bazouks, who intercepted him and brought him back. On admission into Fort Pitt Hospital the wound presented the following appearances. The two parietal bones were sepa- rated from each other to the distance of more than one inch at their upper border, and fully to the length of the posterior half of the sagittal suture. These borders projected above the scalp, forming a chasm, through which large quantities of purulent matter were pumped out at each pulsation of the brain. At the time of his admission the fragments admitted of only very partial movement, and were much too firmly attached to allow of their removal, but they gradually became sufficiently loosened from the attachment as to admit of this, which was successfully effected under the influence of chloroform. After the removal