70 FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. side of the body of the lower jaw. The soft parts were much torn, and the lower edge of the body of the bone was broken to pieces. There was also a vertical fracture of the bone near the symphysis. July 12th, 1858.—The first-named fracture is still ununited, and quite movable, and there is a large scar on the chin, opposite to it. There does not appear to be any necrosed pieces of bone coming away; the second fracture has united. August 15th.—Invalided. 8th Regiment.—Private Edward Sweeny, ret. 26, wounded at Delhi, September 14th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered at the left side of the face, fracturing the lower jaw opposite to the first molar tooth, and passed across to a corresponding part on the opposite side of the lower jaw, where it made its exit. The portion of the symphysis of the lower jaw in front was, for about three months, quite loose and detached; several pieces of bone came away from the fracture on the left side; none came away from that on the right side, which became united in about three months after. August 2nd.—The fracture on the left side of the lower jaw still remains ununited and quite movable, but there is no discharge from it; he cannot open his mouth, and his chin is distorted. August 16th.—Invalided. 20th Regiment.—Enoch Piiuler, ret. 22, wounded at Sultan- pore, February 23rd, 1858, by a round shot, on the left side of the lower jaw, fracturing this bone; nearly the whole of the left ramus of the lo wer jaw had been extracted at the time, or came away by exfoliation; the left shoulder-joint was also wounded by the firelock. September 26th.—Wound still dis- charging from a small sinus, and there is a large cicatrix on this side of the face, which shows a deep hollow from the loss of bone. A dentist has made an artificial appliance, with several teeth attached, which fills up the deficient space in the left side of the jaw, and the patient feels considerable advantage from it. November 3rd.—Invalided. 23rd Regiment—Private James Morgan, wounded at Luck- now, March 16th, 1858, by a musket ball, which fractured the left ramus of the lower jaw at its angle; where the ball was ex- tracted, several large pieces of bone have come away. September 26th.—Wounds healed; fracture still ununited. 27th.—Duty. Sergeant Joseph Cherry, ret. 32, wounded by a grape shot at