6 GUNSHOT WOUNDS IN GENERAL. however, cleaner, and is a good substitute for a poultice. At this period there is always great danger of secondary haemorrhage; a tourniquet should be loosely applied to the limb when the wound is in the vicinity of a large artery, so that it can be tightened when required, and the patient should be carefully watched. Should haemorrhage take place, the artery must be tied at the wound, if possible, or at the most suitable place above it. Should the bleeding still con- tinue, the limb must be amputated. Necrosis, abscesses, and sinuses often remain for years, producing serious injury to the patient's health, and, in some cases, ending fatally from pyaemia. Balls, or a portion of shell, occasionally lodge and become en- cysted in the muscles or bone without producing much incon- venience. As it is impossible to know what injuries they may cause if not removed at once, every endeavour should be made on the part of the surgeon to accomplish their extraction, along w ith any other foreign body which may have been driven in w ith them, if this can be done without producing any serious mischief to some important organ or vessels, as in the case of Private Thomas Boulger, 81th Regiment, under gunshot wound of the lower extremities. In cases where the ball remains unextracted a sinus continues, which occasionally heals and breaks out again from time to time, producing inflammation and suppuration in the sac, when en- cysted, or in its neighbourhood, necessitating continued atten- tion and treatment. Patients in whom the ball is lodged com- plain of weakness, weight, and wandering pains in the limb, which is easily affected by change of weather. Balls, and especially the old round ball, occasionally take very extraordinary courses, according to the angle at which they strike the structure, whether it is bone, tendon, or aponeurosis, and also upon the position of the body at the time. The extraction of balls and other foreign bodies lodged is, in general, accomplished without much difficulty, if done before inflammation and swelling have come on, and if attention is paid to placing the patient in the same position as he uras when in- jured, and putting the same muscles into action, and question- ing the patient as to his ideas and feeling as to where the ball