COMPOUND ERACTURE OP THE BONES. 129 the shoulder-joint. 75th Regiment.—Corporal John Ryan, set. 31, wounded at Delhi, August 12th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered the head of the left humerus, and passed out about two inches from the spinous process of the vertebra, between the seventh and eighth ribs; stated that he spat up blood for three weeks after; abscesses formed, and numerous pieces of bone came away from the shoulder. July 20th, 1858. —Wound healed ; shoulder-joint anchylosed. It is not certain whether the lung was wounded or not. October 6th, 1858.— Invalided. XJnunited fracture.—The following is a case of ununited frac- ture of the humerus, from India, in an officer.—Major M— had his right humerus severely shattered in its middle third by a musket ball, in June, 1858, at Juydespore; the shot was fired by a Sepoy, who was within a few yards of him. Several pieces of bone came away at the time, and since then a consi- derable number of small pieces. March, 1859.—There is now a space of about two inches between the ends of the bones, no union having taken place, and there is a slight discharge from a sinus which remains open. There still appears to be some necrosed portions of bone to come away; and it is not thought advisable at the present time to perform any operation with the view of effecting union. No. 2924.—Shows deficiency of a large portion of the lower part of the shaft of the humerus, from necrosis, in consequence of guushot wound. No. 2925.—Humerus, the shaft of which has been shattered by gunshot, and firmly consolidated by osseous matter; a large splinter, which was completely detached, has become perfectly united to the shaft. From Patrick Waldron, 87th Regiment, who received a fracture of the arm in the Burmese war. The ball entered between the outer edge of the biceps and insertion of the deltoid, passed through the os humeri and triceps, and made its exit on the inner side of the arm. The power of the limb was never restored; he subsequently died of apoplexy. When the arm was examined after death the radial nerve was found to have been wounded, and at the injured part was con- verted into a cartilaginous substance. Radius.—When the wound is close to the joint, anchylosis is 9