PERFORATING THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 47 No. 2891.—Skull of a Russian killed at the battle of Inker- mann. Half the bullet is under the scalp close to the opening in the skull, made, it is presumed, by the other half which entered the cranium. The next specimen, No. 2889, is interesting as showing the great extent of injury inflicted on the osseous substance by a conical musket ball, which perforated the cranium. Not only are both openings joined by a well-defined fissure, but there are cracks radiating in all directions from both wounds. It is curious that portions of the bone large enough to allow of the easy introduction of the finger were removed, which had been driven before the ball, and escaped with it through the aperture of exit; only a few loose spiculse were found in the substance of the brain itself.—Donor, Mr. Cowan, Assistant-Surgeon, 55th Regiment. This is from Private R. Davis, 55th Regiment, set. 23, who was admitted into hospital 24th July, 1855 ; a musket ball wras found to have perforated the cranium at the right superior angle of the frontal bone, and having traversed the substance of the brain, made its exit at the superior angle of the right parietal bone. He had all the symptoms of severe compression of the brain; deep insensibility, involuntary action of the sphincters, contraction of the pupils, &c. Portions of the cerebral substance escaped at both openings, and on introducing the finger, loose pieces of bone could be detected. There was scarcely any haemorrhage; the breathing became stertorous, and he died six hours after admission. The ball in the case of Private Thomas Cain, Rifles, was split, and penetrated the dura mater and brain to the extent of an inch, and was extracted twenty-four days after the wound was received, and the depressed bone was elevated on the twenty- sixth day. There was an extensive abscess in the right lobe of the brain, and pus on the surface and in the ventricles, with fungus preventing the escape of the matter. No. 2902.—Shows the portions of bone removed by the trephine, and also the musket ball, split.—Donor,Dr. Jephson, Surgeon, K.D.G. “-The patient was admitted into hospital, Balaklava, 16th July, 1855; had been wounded, 23rd June, in the trenches. Has a jagged lacerated wound of the scalp behind the right ear, and a fracture of the right parietal bone above its posterior and external angle