93 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OE THE DIAPHRAGM. No. 1269.—Diaphragmatic hernia, the result of a gunshot wound. The greater part of the stomach, the transverse arch of the colon, and omentum, are seen in the left pleural cavity. This lung adheres very firmly and closely to the walls of the chest, as low as the ninth ribs, by adhesions of long standing. The lung is pushed to the upper half of the cavity, but, on account of adhesions to the ribs, it is compressed into a thin layer, which lines the walls of the thorax. The heart is also displaced, and lies behind and a little to the right of the ster- num. The large curvature of the stomach lies in front, and first showed itself on opening the chest. The transverse arch of the colon is to the left of the stomach, and between it and the ribs. The stomach reaches a little higher in the chest than the gut. There is an opening in the diaphragm, with rounded margins, two inches and a half in diameter, situated two inches to the left of the oesophagus; the peritoneum lining the dia- phragm proceeds through the aperture, and is continuous with the pleura. Although the serous surface around the opening is smooth and uninterrupted, still there is some thickening, and an appearance of old cicatrization. In the pleural sac, close to the opening in the diaphragm, on its posterior and external margin, the stomach, colon, and omentum, adhere firmly to the pleura, covering the diaphragm and ribs to the extent of a few inches. There are also two broad, thin, and loose bands of ad- hesion, about eight inches in length, stretching from the omen- tum to the base of the pericardium. The stomach and colon are, however, loose and free in the pleural sac; the parts in the aperture of the diaphragm are free from adhesions, and not con- tracted, and the fingers were easily introduced through it, from the abdomen into the thorax. The oesophagus, after penetrat- ing the diaphragm in the usual place, takes a sharp turn to the left side; the stomach then enters the thorax, a portion of the cardiac extremity of which still, however, lies in the abdomen, in front and to the right of the spleen; the larger part, having entered the chest, curves round and descends to the opening in the diaphragm. The pyloric orifice lies immediately in the aperture; about a foot and a half of the transverse arch of the colon, with the omentum attached, are also in this cavity. On the skin exactly opposite and corresponding to the diaphragm,