20 GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING of tlie bones tlie wound made rapid progress towards cicatriza- tion, the discharge subsided, and the sinuses ceased to pour out purulent matter, while the patient’s general health manifestly improved. He was invalided in April, 1855, and was then in pretty good health, and was in good and cheerful spirits; his memory was somewhat impaired, but in other respects he was in possession of all his mental faculties. The next case is an injury of the left side of the head, two inches above the ear, from a portion of shell. About six months after, a puffy tumour formed, which was accidentally ruptured; necrosis followed; the patient became comatose from the pressure of pus on the brain, but he recovei’ed to a certain extent. Subsequently it was considered necessary to apply the trephine, which gave great relief to the symptoms, with every prospect of perfect recovery. The necrosed portion of bone which was removed almost entirely consisted of the external table, except a small portion, about half an inch in extent, which consisted of both tables, and it is probable that some part of the purulent matter that Avas discharged when the tre- phine was applied came from the interior of the cranium, through the aperture thus formed, and also from the diploe. No. 289G.—A large sequestrum, about six inches in diameter, composed almost entirely of the external table of both parietal bones. There arc only two small portions which include both tables. There is an opening in the bone, made by the trephine for the evacuation of matter. From Private George Ilrookland, ret. 29 ; 23rd Regiment. On the 20tli September, 1854, at the battle of the Alma, received a gunshot wound of the neck; in this injury the bullet entered on one side, a little behind the thyroid cartilage, and made its exit on the other, about a cor- responding level and position; he Avas likewise struck on the left side of the head, about two inches above the ear, by a portion of a shell weighing tAvo pounds. On the day following the re- ceipt of the injury he Avas sent to Scutari Hospital, where he recovered from the gunshot wound, but the injury of the head received no treatment. There was no external scalp wound caused by the injury, but he stated that he Avas never free from headache, which at times ay ns excruciating. He returned to England in January, 1855, when the pain of the head became