163 FRACTURE OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA. Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula. Two have been admitted and been invalided. One was by a musket ball, followed by a sloughing and necrosis. The other was by a grape shot at the lower third of the leg, followed by anchylosis of the ankle-joint. 75th Regiment.—Private Thomas Dabney, aged 38, wounded at Delhi, June 8th, 1857, by a grape shot, which struck him on the inner and posterior aspect of the tibia, one inch above the right ankle, and passed out through the external malleolus. Several pieces of bone have come away. July 20th.—Wound healed. Skin adherent to bone, and parts much thickened. Ankle-joint anchylosed. Considerable loss of bone of both tibia and fibula. November 11th, 1858.—Invalided; Preparation No. 2950 is a good example of fracture of both tibia and fibula at the upper third from gunshot. The fractured ends are united by a very abundant deposition of osseous matter, more particularly the tibia, in which there are several cloacse leading into a cavity in the centre of the bone, where there were some portions necrosed. The fibula has been fractured ob- liquely ; the superior portion lies to the outer side, and overlaps the lower to the extent of an inch, and the latter is united to the tibia by a quantity of new bone. New osseous matter is also deposited to a considerable extent on the surface of the tibia and fibula. On the anterior surface of the tibia, immediately above the fracture, absorption of the new bony matter seems to have been going on. Necrosis of portions of the shaft of the tibia frequently follows gunshot wounds of the leg—more rarely of the whole thickness or length of the bone—leaving sinuses discharging pus for months or years, and rendering the patient liable to death from pyemia, as in the case of No. 2947, Private Farrer, page 161. No. 294*6.—Tibia much thickened, and presenting a cavity in its surface, from which a sequestrum has been detached with several cloacm. From a gunshot injury. The case of Beardsall is also a good example of loss of a great portion of this bone (tibia) by necrosis, page 160.