GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF TIIE CHEST. 80 inflammation was only such as to he sufficient and necessary for its closure, and that if bleeding would affect it at all, it would act injuriously. In most cases of gunshot and sabre wounds of the thorax, when the first seventy-two hours have passed, great hopes may be entertained of the patient’s ultimate recovery. Ilmmoptysis is most to be dreaded during the first forty-eight hours, and if within moderate bounds, it is rather advantageous to the patient than otherwise. Haemoptysis at a later period is liable to recur at any time, but generally ceases of its own accord, or after the administration of some astringent medicine. Digitalis and opium may, in some cases, be of service in relieving the pain and spasmodic cough. Patients after having been cured of a gunshot wound gene- rally complain of dyspnoea, tightness across the chest, especially on walking up a hill, and the lungs and pleura are generally ever after very prone to disease, and are liable to be affected by the slightest atmospheric changes, although the reverse has been in some cases observed to take place. Many cases, however, recover so completely from penetrating gunshot wounds of the lung, that no abnormal sound can be detected along the course of the ball, and the patients find themselves so perfectly well that they have continued to do their duty for years as soldiers, as seen in some of those from India. Twelve perforating gunshot wounds of the chest arrived from India, of which G have been sent to duty ; 2 to modified duty ; 2 invalided ; and 2 died. Seven were wounded on the right side of the chest, and 2 on the left; in 4 instances it is men- tioned that air passed out of the wounds of the chest. Eight were wounded by musket ball, and 1 by grape shot. In all these cases there can be little doubt of the luno- having been wounded, with, perhaps, the exception of Knox and Farrell. It is also remarkable that so many as six had so far perfectly recovered as to be able to return to duty, and the lung to have been so completely restored that nothing ab- normal could be detected, either by percussion or ausculta- tion, along the course of the ball, although it is to be supposed inflammation of the lung and pleural cavity took place to a greater or less extent in all. It is, however, stated that pneu-