SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 189 the assistant should slowly and deliberately follow the back of the amputating knife, with the palm of his hand in the wound and the thumb outside, so as to grasp the whole of the flap, but especially the axillary artery. By following this plan, com- pression above the clavicle is quite unnecessary, provided you have an assistant that you can depend upon. The celebrated surgeon, Professor Fergusson, and who wras also my respected teacher, states that I was the first to amputate at the shoulder- joint without compression of the subclavian. Eight were admitted and invalided; only one remained un- healed. Four were by the superior and inferior flap, and four by the anterior and posterior flaps ; the stumps were all good and round, and the integuments not puckered; both methods of operating gave equally good results : all were done under the influence of chloroform; all were primary operations. In the following case the stump sloughed :—Rifles (2nd Bat- talion).—Private James Gayler, wounded at Cawnpore, No- vember 28th, 1857, by a grape shot, which shattered the arm. Amputation was performed at the shoulder-joint, three hours after the injury, under the influence of chloroform, by ante- rior and posterior flaps; the ligature did not come away for some time, and caused considerable irritation; sloughing also took place, with much suppuration. July 11th, 1858.—The stump is good and solid, although there are three small portions of the margins of the flaps unhealed, with exuberant granula- tions arising from them. September 3rd.—Modified duty.* The two following preparations are good examples of necrosis affecting the stump of the humerus, comprising nearly the entire thickness of the shaft, occurring in a very scrofulous subject, and which demanded secondary amputation at the shoulder- joint two years after the primary operation. Death from pyaemia ten days after the last operation. No. 2916 (see PI. IX, fig. 2).—Section of the stump (in spirits) of the upper half of the humerus, removed by secondary amputation at the shoulder- joint. A portion of the upper part of the shaft of the bone, * I am sorry that I am unable to insert the names of the medical officers who performed the various operations, in consequence of the documents sent home rarely stating by whom they were performed; but as far as it has been in my power I have done so; and also given the names of the donors of the preparations to the Museum at Netley.