194 AMPUTATION OF THE 1857, by a round shot, which carried away a great portion of the upper arm, shattered the humerus, and left the large vessels and nerves hanging loose. Amputation was per- formed by the circular method one hour after, under chloro- form, at the upper third, close to the insertion of the deltoid. Exfoliation of the extremity of the bone took place, and it was extracted June 29th. August 16th, 1858.—Wound healed; cicatrix adherent to the end of the bone; shoulder-joint anchy- losed, the result of the injury and surrounding inflammation. September 2nd, 1858.—Sent to modified duty. Amputation of the Forearm. The flap operation is generally to be preferred to the cir- cular. The elbow being slightly bent, and the hand placed in a position between pronation and supination, a knife about six inches long should be passed across from one side to the other, so as to make a posterior flap, which should be raised, and a second similar in size and shape to that already made should be made on the anterior aspect of the limb; the two flaps should then be drawn up, and the textures close upon the bones, having been divided with the same knife, care being taken not to pass its points between them, the saw should then be applied close to the root of the flaps and the parts separated. When the saw is well used, there is little dif- ference whether a single bone or both are cut at the same time. Several methods of holding the limb before transfixing have been recommended, but the chief thing to be observed is the attitude in which the limb is actually placed, so as to avoid passing the knife between the bone. The posterior flap is apt to be small, if the textures about to be transfixed are not grasped and raised above the blade. Two flaps may also be formed by cutting from without in- wards with a short straight bistoury. When the incisions are made near the wrist, the tendons occasionally hang out of the Avound, and require to be cut short. It is always well to endeavour to save as much of the forearm as possible, so as to admit of any kind of apparatus