OPERATION OE TREPHINING. 59 often fair room for question whether the recovery might not equally have taken place without the operation. I must here remark that I limit these observations to gunshot fracture with depression, as an opposite opinion appears to he deducible from the recorded experience of trephining in similar injuries as oc- casioned by accidents in civil life.'” Some surgeons, also, do not employ the trephine in any description of cases of injury of the cranium, but advocate leaving everything to nature, except taking away any loose pieces of hone or foreign body that can he removed without injury to the brain; and this seems to be the practice generally pursued amongst army surgeons of the present day. VI. Operation of Trephining. The scalp is to be divided by a circular or a V incision, or the wound may be enlarged in any suitable or convenient manner,— then the central pin of the trephine is to be protruded about the eighth of an inch, and well fixed and firmly placed on the external table, and with a sharp, light, rotatory movement of the hand the teeth should be carried into the bone. The external table and diploe may be quickly divided; the central pin should be withdrawn lest it perforate the bone first and injure the dura mater. Greater caution is required as the instrument approaches the vitreous table, or where the thickness of the bone is irregular, or where the diploe is almost wanting. The saw must be very lightly and cautiously used and taken out, the teeth cleaned, and the groove examined with the flat end of a probe or a quill to ascertain that it is of the same depth all round. When the bone is loose it may come away with the trephine, or the elevator is to be employed to raise the loosened portion. A circular piece of bone is taken away in this manner in cases of purulent collec- tions, or extravasation of blood, or a foreign body in the cranium. A little more than a semicircular portion of bone should be removed in cases of depressed fractures; the central pin should be fixed on the margin of the sound bone, as the object of taking away a semicircular piece only is to allow of the introduction of the elevator to raise the depressed portion of