138 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OE THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. lodged in 3; wound healed on arrival in 5. Limb three inches shorter in 3, two and a half inches shorter in 1, one and a half inches shorter in 4, and one inch shorter in 5 instances. Besides these 13 cases there is one (Private M'Crea*) of a simple fracture of the lower third of the femur by round shot, received in action, where amputation of the leg was performed at the tubercle of the tibia. It is taught by most military surgeons that, as a rule, imme- diate amputation should be performed in all compound commi- nuted fractures of the femur; and that by attempting to save limbs more patients have lost their lives. It is also recom- mended in all cases of gunshot fractures of the middle and lower thirds of the femur, but especially in the middle third, that amputation should be performed; but in the same injury in the upper third the limb should be preserved, as it has been found that amputation in the upper third of the thigh is almost cer- tainly fatal, so that such a severe operation is not considered advisable when the prospect of success is so small, and by re- taining the limb the patient is much more comfortable, wTith equal chances of saving his life. It may be mentioned that one case of amputation of the upper third of the thigh arrived from India; it was so high up that the stump could not be retained in the bucket of the artificial limb. It appears from the result of the Schleswig Holstein war that a considerable number of these cases were preserved with very useful limbs. The number which have arrived from India is very large in proportion, viz., 13 cases of compound commi- nuted fracture of the femur to the total wounded, 842. Of 2296 discharged the service at Chatham, in consequence of wounds received in the Crimean war, there were only eight re- coveries with the limb on. The success of these cases from India may, in part, be attributed by some surgeons to the ball of the old musket being smaller, and not producing such a severe fracture as that used by the Russians during the late war, but more to the dooley as a means of conveyance, and in part to the army having been better supplied with good food clothing, &c. Generally cases of gunshot wounds progress more favorably * The history of this case will be found under “Amputation of the Leg.”