CONVEYANCE CARRIED BY MEN. 243 dooly-bcarcrs in front and two behind, with the reliefs; they generally carry the dooly from ten to fourteen miles’ march a day. When they arrive at the encampment, they run the dooly into the hospital tent, take out the pole with the tarpaulin covering and curtains, and then leave the patients comfortably in their beds; the following morning, at a certain hour, the bearers return with their bamboo pole and the top of the dooly, put them on in a minute, and start for the next halting-place. The roofs of two doolies placed together form a shade for the bearers at night, and during the heat of the day. During the Crimean war Deputy-Inspector J. R. Taylor, C.B., who has had great experience in India, and also in Europe, recommended a dooly corps. Sir George Ballingall, in his f Military Surgery/ fourth edition, page 106, says—“Nothing can well be con- ceived more perfectly adapted to the conveyance of sick than the doolyand I shall only further quote the words of an Indian medical officer, Superintending-Surgeon Charles Renny, in his f Report on the Medical Arrangements of the Army of the Punjaub during the Campaign of 1848-9 /—“The dooly is the most comfortable conveyance for a wounded or sick person ; it cannot be replaced by anything better.” Inspector-General Muir, C.B., also remarks in his f Report on the last Campaign in China •/—“ that there is no kind of sick transport equal to a dooly, and that the dooly made use of in the past campaign is still capable of improvement. An improved dooly has since been designed, which it is hoped will meet every requirement when human labour is made use of.” And this seems to be the opinion both of medical officers and also of military officers who have served in India, and are, therefore, qualified to judge. It would be too expensive, and perhaps an unnecessary measure, to have, as in India, one dooly and dooly-bcarcrs for each regiment, or even for battalions at home in time of peace; still, a suitable supply of doolies might be procured from India, and placed in store until required in the event of war, when bearers could be immediately called for from India for this duty. The best dooly-bcarcrs generally come from the country round Cawnpore and the lower provinces, and, though natives