57 TREPHINE. when it is certain, by the presence of both local and constitu- tional symptoms, that pus has actually formed. The trephine should be of large size, and applied over the dead portion of bone, and afterwards strict antiphlogistic treatment should be pursued to subdue the inflammatory symptoms. Should the matter not be found superficial to the dura mater, this mem- brane is only to be punctured when it protrudes through the aperture, does not pulsate, and is either of a very dark or very pale colour, and fluctuates; should the dura mater present a healthy appearance, level, smooth, shining, and of a brown colour, and pulsating, it should not be interfered with; should the surgeon not find the matter, he is hardly warranted in making a second exploration. The abscess is, however, seldom situated at any other place than that which a judicious surgeon would select. Still many cases of extensive necrosis and suppuration occur, without requiring the use of the trephine. See Nos. 2895, page 19; also 2896, page 20, and 3176, page 22. In the third description of cases, viz., a compound or even simple fracture, hut with marked depression and compression,—in such cases where the urgent symptoms continue and resist every antiphlogistic treatment, the trephine may in some rare cases be absolutely necessary to save life, but it should not be resorted to unless under the most pressing circumstances, as it is now well ascertained that patients recover with large portions of bone depressed upon the brain (see Nos. 2884, page 34; and 2885, page 35), and also from the usual known fact of the powers of the cerebral mass of accommodating itself to its com- pressed position, and likewise the risk of converting, in the case of simple fracture, into a compound one; although too much importance should not be attached to this when circumstances demand the use of the knife. Many army surgeons, of the highest standing, recommend that the trephine should not be had recourse to in any case of fracture of the cranium, unless head symptoms absolutely requiring its application should present themselves, and thereby almost discarding the use of the trephine; and certainly the latter practice appears to be as successful as that of the indiscriminate use of this instrument by the older surgeons. Still, there can be no doubt that there are occasionally cases where the trephine can be used with