134 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OE THE LOWER EXTREMITIES tlie thigh, followed by sloughing; 1 was by a rifle ball in the thigh ; 1 by a ball in the thigh close to the femoral artery, injuring the sciatic nerve; and in 5 cases the wounds were from balls in the fleshy parts of the leg, followed by slough- ing. In a number of cases there was great contraction and rigi- dity of the hamstring muscles and ligaments around the knee- joint, also in the muscles of the calf, and around the ankle- joint, requiring forcible extension. Many of them, on arrival, walked with crutches, the leg suspended in slings, and the foot pushed out behind; the crutches were taken from them, and the limbs placed in splints and extended; and with the same results as in the upper extremity, the greater number being much improved in condition, and several perfectly cured. The very indolent character of open sores after gunshot wounds is worthy of remark. The men wrere apparently in good health, had lived well both in India and on board ship, and were generally untainted with scurvy; still, the ulcers resisted every mode of treatment,—lotions of every description^ blisters, strapping, incisions, filling them with wrax, &c.,—nothing would induce granulations or a healthy action. The following is a case where a ball entered posteriorly in the centre of the buttocks, and lodged in or near the pubis; the ball could not be felt by the finger from the perineum, but it was detected by the long probe through the aperture in the hip. 10th Regiment.—Private John Ferguson, wounded at Benares, June 4th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered the centre of the right buttock, and passed forwards and downwards, and is now lodged in or near the ramus of the pubes. July 13th.—The aperture of entrance on the centre of the right hip is still open, and the ordinary probe goes in its entire length without feeling any foreign body ; the long probe can detect the ball lying near the pubes. July 17th, 1858.—Invalided. In the following case the ball must have grazed, or at least passed very close to the femoral artery, and lodged deep be- neath it. 84th Regiment.—Private Thomas Bulger, set. 33, wounded at Cawnpore, November 16th, 1857, by a musket ball, which struck him on the left hand, fracturing the first, second, and third fingers, and then passed through the anterior