OR PERFORATION OF THE LAEGEE JOINTS. 173 There is a second fracture situated about the middle of the bone. From Private James Aitkin, set. 27, who received a severe shell wound of the left leg in the trenches on August 18th, 1855. He was standing erect at the time. The knee-joint was distinctly opened into, and the head of the tibia severely comminuted. Amputation was immediately performed, and the patient re- covered.—Donor, Dr. Cowan, Assistant-Surgeon, 55th Regiment. The following preparation shows a bayonet wound of the knee-joint, followed by severe inflammation, profuse purulent discharge, and irritative fever, rendering amputation necessary sixty days after the injury. No. 3G33.—A portion of quill passed through the original wound shows the direction it took; it is situated just beneath the level of the patella, and a little to the right side. The synovial membrane is thick and gela- tinous. West York Rifle Regiment.—Private John Gannell, of strong, healthy aspect, while drinking in a public-house, on February 5th, 1858, a sergeant of another regiment drew his bayonet and wounded him on the left knee. The wound had every appearance of having penetrated the joint; the pus was excessive; the -wound, though small, was deep, and situated just beneath the level of the patella, and a little to the right side of it. Late in the evening of the 5th he was delirious, and in great agony; his sufferings were so great that anodynes had to be largely given before anything like a quiet state could be arrived at; the knee became swollen, and the pain continued, and showed signs of the formation of pus in the joint; abscesses also formed outside the joint, and were opened. A profuse dis- charge of purulent matter continued from the wound, and the man’s appearance, pulse, &c., assumed the hectic character ren ■ dering amputation of the limb necessary, which was performed April 6th, and the patient recovered.—Donor, Assistant-Surgeon Taylor, Royal Artillery. 14th Light Dragoons.—Private James Ball, set. 30, was wounded at Muddenpore Pass on 3rd March, 1858, by a musket ball, which entered the outer side of left knee, and was cut out about two inches posteriorly. Joint primarily injured? The surgeon says. No; but the contrary seems probable. Free in- cisions around the joint were subsequently required. The limb can now only be flexed to a slight extent, but the joint has