7G GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. space, between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, and continued obliquely downwards and outwards between them. The latissi- nms dorsi and serratus having been divided, the external and internal intercostal muscles are to be divided in the middle of the intercostal space, and the pleura exposed, when, if the cavity contains fluid, it will project between the ribs so as to be felt by the finger. An opening is to be made close to the margin of the mass of spinal muscles at the moment of inspiration. The opening can be enlarged, if necessary, by the introduction of a director during full inspiration. The diaphragm ascends as high as the sixth rib in full expiration, and might easily be wounded if this precaution was not adopted. Emphysema.—Fracture of the rib, which has inflicted a wound of the surface of the lung, is the most common cause of emphysema, and through the aperture thus made the air escapes into the pleural cavity, and also into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. It is seldom that emphysema follows a gunshot wound, but is somewhat more common immediately after sword or lance wounds, but not so fre- quent as was formerly supposed. When air is admitted into the cavity of the chest, the lung does not collapse to any great extent, but continues to do its duty, although rather imperfectly, and also in those cases where a ball passes di- rectly through the substance of the lung. The lung can only be compressed by a fluid, as in empyema, pneumo- thorax, or by confined air. In some cases the patient cannot lie down, and appears to be on the point of suffocation, the face and lips purple, &c. An opening should at once be made into the chest, for the purpose of evacuating the compressed air or fluid, as the case may be. Percussion and auscultation is of great service in diagnosing these cases. When partial or general emphysema takes place, incisions should be made into the subcutaneous cellular tissue on different parts of the body. It is seldom that a hernia of the lung takes place after a gunshot wound. When a portion does protrude and is left un- covered, it soon becomes livid and shrivelled, without being gangrenous, and may be removed by the knife. Hernia of a portion of the lung is most likely to occur during expiration,