AMPUTATIONS. 186 and of the primary amputations of the upper extremity, leg, and foot, about one half recovered, and of the lower and middle third of the thigh, about two thirds died, but of all the secondary amputations more than two thirds died. Neither these figures, nor those of any other army, however, shows how many died before the secondary amputation was resorted to, which would still make it much more in favour of the primary operation. It is now, therefore, an established rule in military* practice that immediate amputation should be performed. The shock which generally follows severe injuries does not usually appear for some short time after the wound, leaving an interval which seems to depend partly upon the severity of the wound, and the constitution of the patient. Occasionally there are cases in which there is no shock. If this interval could be seized, and the operation performed under chloroform, the chances of success would be much greater. When the shock is very marked, and the patient greatly prostrated, delay may be necessary; but it is thought by some military surgeons that the presence of the shock does not militate against the operation when done under the influence of chloroform. Chloroform is thought by some surgeons not to intensify the shock, but rather to give more stamina to the patient, so that its early use need not be dreaded, nor is it necessary to wait for its subsidence before operating. According as the line of amputation approaches the trunk and the size of the part amputated, so does the danger of a fatal termination increase. In the Crimea the per-centage of deaths after amputation was, of the hip 100 per cent., of the thigh 64, of the leg 37, of the foot 16, of the shoulder-joint 35, of the arm 19, of the fore- arm 7, which shows the increase of mortality the nearer to the body that the limb is removed, and also the greatly less likeli- hood of a fatal termination in amputations of the upper ex- tremity compared to that in the lower. It is well known that amputation of the thigh becomes more fatal in proportion as the limb is removed high up, so that reco- very after amputation in the upper third for compound fracture of the thigh is a very rare occurrence. The relative advantage of the circular over the flap operation