56 TREPHINE. see the result, and at the same time use the most antiphlogistic measures. At present the number of cases is not sufficient on both sides of the question to enable the profession to come to any definite conclusion on the point. In the Crimean war, 4- out of 15 cases were not operated on, and 3 died of abscess of the brain, and 1 recovered; of 11 operated upon, in consequence of symptoms of compression or inflammation and to remove balls, 4 recovered and 7 died. In the 15 cases, none of them had head symptoms for some days after being wounded, and none were operated upon before the 4th day and as late as the 26th day, and, consequently, after inflammatory symptoms had showed themselves. In the second description of cases the trephine is only ad- missible when the extravasation is supposed to have taken place from the meningeal artery. In a few rare cases a surgeon is warranted in trephining at the seat of the injury to remove the coagulated blood, when it is tolerably certain from the situation of the injury being in the course of the meningeal artery, and the gradual coming on of symptoms of compres- sion, that the blood may be reached and removed. But the great difficulty is for the surgeon to determine the situation of the effusion, should it be poured out over the surface of the brain, below the dura mater, or at the base of the brain; in these cases it cannot be got at and taken away. In many cases where there are symptoms which warrant the surgeon in diagnosing extravasation, still, on making an exploration, none may be found; also the frequent occurrence of fracture of the base of the skull, and likewise of extravasation into the sub- stance of the brain, ought also to be taken into account before resorting to an operation. In almost all cases, therefore, of extravasation of blood, the antiphlogistic treatment is recom- mended, and only in those cases where the symptoms are urgent and caused by a blow in the meningeal region, con- joined with hemiplegia on the opposite side, should the trephine be applied; but this operation should not be performed when symptoms are not present indicating its necessity, merely because the injury is situated in the course of the meningeal artery. With regard to the application of the trephine in cases of the formation of purulent matter, it should be resorted to only