PERFORATING THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 49 immediately relieved, but returned when the matter accumulated to the same extent, and could not find an exit in consequence of the pressure of the fingers, but was relieved in the same way. On the 21st August he became more comatose than before ; towards the evening he died. The fungus at first was very soft, but for some time it had been very hard and elastic. On a post-mortem, extensive abscess was found in the posterior and middle lobe of the right hemisphere, communicating freely with extravasated matter on the surface of the brain, and by a recent opening with the lateral ventricle. The dura mater was detached from the bone around to a great extent, and presented a sloughing appearance.” The following is a gunshot wound of the face and base of the skull; death ten days after the injury, from haemorrhage from the internal carotid, splinters of bone in the left hemisphere, and suppuration. No. 2880.—Cranium, exhibiting the track of a musket ball, from the lower and inner side of the right orbit to the carotid canal, in the petrous portion of the left temporal bone. The internal carotid artery was ruptured, and the ball lay near the opening; spiculse of bone were entangled in the substance of the left hemisphere of the brain, and suppuration had commenced in this part. No. 3197.—Cast of the head of a man who received a gunshot wound in the right anterior lobe of the brain when attempting suicide. This is a good example of a gunshot wound penetrating the substance of the brain, with recovery without any operative measures. From Private Daniel Tonson, 24th Regiment. Sus- tained an injury on the back of the head by the barracks at Loadianah falling upon him in 1846. The nature of the injury is not clear, as the scalp was not broken, and there is but a slight dent to be felt in the occipital bone. The skull, however, was supposed to have been fractured. He was after the injury subject to headache, though still doing his duty. In 1853, whilst under the influence of drink, he attempted suicide by leaning his right eyebrow on his musket, and firing a ball through the right anterior lobe of his brain.' The ball entered the orbital plate of the frontal bone at the side of the nose, and passed out near the coronal suture. The bone seems to have been comminuted, and there are now, January, 1859, irregular 4