166 GUNSHOT WOUNDS, WITH DIRECT PENETRATION want of use, and consequent pain on attempting motion in the joint. It is of great importance to decide, as soon as possible, whether a joint is wounded or not; still no measures, by means of probing, &c., should be taken to ascertain this, as it would be almost certain to bring on severe inflammation. Should the wound have penetrated the joint, this will, in general, be soon made evident, by the symptoms which ensues; in cases of wounds near joints motion should be as early as possible had recourse to, to prevent contraction and partial anchylosis. When a joint is actually wounded, inflammatory symptoms are almost always very severe, and set in shortly after the injury. The joint swells to a great extent, and the pain is very severe. Synovia, at first by itself, may flow from the aper- ture, and afterwards mixed with pus. There is great consti- tutional disturbance, and death frequently takes place from irritative fever or “ pyemia.” Should the patient survive the acute stage, abscesses form in the muscles around and about the joint, and this, with the profuse discharge from the articu- lation, generally causes death from hectic fever. Should the patient have the great and unusual good fortune to escape all these perils, and to have saved his life and limb, the joint will be anchylosed, and then he may consider himself exceedingly fortunate. The admission of air into the joint is the cause of the suppuration, which also causes the pus to become acrid and putrescent. In cases of fractures and dislocation of joint, suppuration seldom takes place where there is no external wound. The synovial membrane is the part first affected, the cartilage becoming secondarily diseased in gunshot wounds of the joints, or in what is called traumatic arteritis; whereas, in scrofulous affections of joints, the disease most frequently commences in the bone or cartilage. In recent cases of gunshot or bayonet wounds of joints, the synovial membrane becomes swollen, gelatinous, and of a red colour, and the cartilage be- neath becomes softened and partially absorbed; when suppura- tion has taken place for some months, the cartilages are eroded at parts, exposing the bones underneath, which are carious.