COMPOUND ERACTURE OP DEMUR. 153 now considerable phlegmonous inflammation around the wound and whole of upper part of thigh, and necrosed bone exists in considerable quantity. General health good. November, 1859. I have fully satisfied myself that this was an instance of gunshot fracture of the upper part of the femur. The upper part of the thigh and buttock have now become much consolidated; and although a sinus in the buttock remains open and leads to a frag- ment of dead bone, which is not yet loose (although the wound was inflicted in July, 1857), the parts are in a quiescent state, and the man, having been fitted with a high-heeled boot, is able to get about with facility by the help of a stick, and is now in good health and free from the ague from which he formerly suffered so severely. Private John Gerry, 2nd Battalion 60th, aged 19, was wounded at Nonee, 21st October, 1858, by a musket ball, which entered at the middle third, on the inner side of the left thigh, apparently passed behind the artery, fractured the femur at the junction of the upper and middle thirds, and was cut out at the back of the thigh six months after; two fragments of bones were subsequently removed from that opening, which healed, but the entrance wound remained open; limb shortened three and a half inches, but femur firmly united. There is also another opening in front of the thigh, about two and a half inches above the patella, towards the outer aspect of the limb, from which a long sinus leads upwards, apparently to the seat of the dead bone felt from the opening of entrance. The man will have a most serviceable limb when fitted with a high-heeled boot. Extracts from the Monthly Reports from Chatham during the year 1859, furnished by J. R. Taylor, Esq., C.B., F.R.C.S., Inspector-General of Hospitals, Honorary Surgeon to Her Majesty. “ The invalided wounded during the mutiny commenced to arrive at the Invalid Depot in April 1858, and during the fifteen months since elapsed the arrivals of this class of invalids have averaged 50 per month. The total, inclusive of the 5i arrived