f 24 GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING extent. The quantity of blood effused may be so great as to cause death; or the haemorrhage may cease, and the brain ac- commodate itself to the pressure; or it may be gradually re- moved by absorption, or inflammation and suppuration may take place. The middle meningeal artery (the one generally wounded) is lodged and sometimes imbedded in the bone, and may be ruptured at the fracture. Haemorrhage usually takes place slowly, and the brain yields and becomes compressed by the successive layers of effused blood before it has the power to separate the dura mater from the bone. When the separation between the dura mater and bone is small, the blood efiused is compressed, which in its turn arrests the flow from the artery, causing either sjunptoms of compression from extravasation, or those of a secondary character, resulting from inflammation and suppuration of the part, and of irritation and compression of the brain. In some cases, where the trephine has been applied and ex- travasated blood taken away, the brain has regained its natural level, and the patients have regained their consciousness and ultimately recovered; in other cases the brain has still remained depressed, and in these the patients have not opened their eyes or recognised those about them, but continued in a comatose state until death took place. Fracture without Depression ; also Fissures or Counter- fractures. The base of the skull is most frequently fractured in civil life, in consequence of these accidents taking place from falls; whereas in military practice fractures of other parts of the skull are common, and those of the base of rare occurrence, and the practice of the latter is therefore more successful. A mere fissure or fracture of the skull is of no more import- ance than a fracture of any other bone, looking at it without any reference to its contents. A compound wound must always be looked upon as more serious, compared to a simple one, taking every circumstance into account.