AND GENITAL AND U KIN ABA OKGANS. 119 the penis. 20th.—All the wounds are now healed; No. 8 catheter can be passed with ease. July 21st, 1858.—Duty. 88th Regiment.—Private William Smith, wounded at Cawn- pore, November 26th, 1857, by a spent round shot, which caused a bruise over the symphysis of the pubis and outer side of the left thigh; has never since been able to retain his urine. August 16th, 1858.—His urine passes constantly from him without the least control over it. He has been supplied with a patent urinal. He complains of weakness in his loins, but is otherwise in good health. No. 2956.—Cast of a section of a urinary calculus which had a musket ball for a nucleus.—Donor, Sir G. Ballingall, Edinburgh. In the following case, which occurred during the Punjaub Campaign in 1848 and 1849, a ball entered the pelvis ’and dis- appeared ; he was sent to the Landour Depot, where symptoms of stone in the bladder came on, and on the usual operation for lithotomy being performed, a grape shot was extracted from the bladder, coated with urinary deposit. It was presumed that”the bullet in the first instance was not lodged in the bladder, but had afterwards found its way into that cavity by process of inflammation and ulceration, and perforation of the coats of the viscus, as all foreign substances lodged in the centre of the body have a constant tendency to find their way by ulceration to the nearest cavity by which it is possible for them to be externally expelled. 24th Regiment.—Private W. West, set. 22, service four years, heal thy and of sound constitution, Was admitted into the Field Hospital after the action at Cliillianwallah, 13th January, 1849, having received a wound about the centre of the left nates, somewhat above and external to the left sciatic notch, from a bullet which lodged internally and was ex- tracted by E. Macpherson, Assistant-Surgeon, 9th Lancers, by the lateral operation for lithotomy, on the 30th August, seven months after the wound. When brought off’ the field he pointed to the left side of the raplii of the perineum, immediately below the left spermatic cord, as the part in which he supposed himself to have been wounded, from the pain he felt in that situation, but no sign of injury could be discovered then. Six weeks after its receipt the wound had healed without any untoward symptom