SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 219 to, amputation at the shoulder-joint, it is believed, would have become necessary in all.” Nineteen cases of resection occurred during the Schleswig Holstein war. Of these, 7 died, and 12 recovered with useful and movable articulations. Of the 7 fatal cases, 2 were primary operations, 2 were performed during the reaction stage, and 3 were secondary resections. This mortality at first sight appears rather high; but the conditions under which they were performed must be taken into consideration : they were done, as Esmarch states, under circumstances in which more than a third of all amputations of the arm died. They died of pymmia. Stromeyer and Esmarch both agree that the most favorable time for resection is either within the first twenty-four hours, or when suppuration is fully established. Abscesses and sinuses are apt to form in the vicinity of the joint, and occasionally cause considerable trouble. A good deal of this depends upon the form of incision selected, so as to allow of the free discharge of pus. Bandens, who has had great experience, recommends the straight incision, so as to avoid cutting the fibres of the deltoid, and it is also necessary to save the long tendon of the biceps, if possible. Stromeyer advocates the semicircular incision over the pos- terior surface of the joint, which certainly allows of the free exit of pus; but to cut across the fibres of the deltoid must in some degree impair the limb, although Esmarch states that to cut across the fibres of the deltoid does not much interfere with its after usefulness. Even in those cases where the single incision has been employed, the patient frequently has very little or no power of raising the arm from the side, as was exemplified in the case of Private James McDonald, 79th Bcgi- ment, from the war in India, and others that have come under notice here. As there are generally two apertures, the surgeon may wish to include them in his incision; but each method will possibly be found to suit in different cases. It is seldom necessary to take away more than the head and a portion of the shaft— perhaps nearly as low as the insertion of the deltoid; but in the Schleswig Holstein war it is shown that as much as four