29 FRACTURE OF TIIE INNER TABLE. uninjured internal. May we not also suspect that other cases of this description of fracture have occurred, and have not been ob- served on post-mortem examination, as took place in this instance, the fissure not being remarked until the calvarium was macerated? No. 2893. — Calvaria showing a distinct fissure, limited to the internal table, running parallel to the course which the ball had taken, with commencing necrosis. Death in thirteen days after the receipt of the wound.—Donor, Mr. Cowan, Assistant-Surgeon, 55th Regiment. This specimen was taken from Private James Burke, 55th Regiment, aged nineteen, who walked home from the trenches, and was admitted into hospital August 24tli, 1855. He said that when at the rear a musket ball, which he found afterwards, struck him on the head. On examination, a distinct linear slit, about three inches long, and running parallel with the axis of the brain, was observed situated over the upper surface of the right parietal bone. On introducing the finger, the bone was found quite bare, but no fracture or depression could be discovered. There were no general symptoms of any serious injury of the head. The head was ordered to be shaved, and cold-water dressing applied. August 29th. — Had been progressing favorably until this evening, when the whole scalp was observed to be swollen, but not at all reddened. The oedema was greatest on the right side of the head and face. The edges of the wound looked unhealthy and green, and there was a peculiar smell from the wound; he complained of a want of power in his left arm; the muscles of the face were slightly twisted towards the right side; he could move his legs freely; a crucial incision was made through the wounds, the flaps retracted, and the bone carefully examined. No injury of its intimate structure could be detected, but a distinct black line marked the course of the ball; the pulse was small and weak; numerous free incisions were made here and there over the swollen scalp; from these wounds a great deal of serum escaped. 30tli.—Symptoms of hemiplegia wrere more distinct; oedema of the scalp quite gone ; wound looks more healthy ; the bone appeared dead. Septem- ber 5th.—Had one slight convulsion this morning; respiration decidedly more hurried; in consultation, no operation was deemed advisable; had been put under the influence of mer-