42 GUNSHOT INJURIES PENETRATING AND with a febrile state had appeared. The bone w'as cut down upon and fully exposed, when a portion of hair was found diiven into the fracture, and firmly impacted. Ihe depressed angle was taken out, by including it in the circle of the trephine. The inner table was displaced to a greater degree than the ex- ternal, was comminuted, and two pieces lay quite loose and detached. Some amount of clotted blood was found on the dura mater, which membrane was, however, entire. The hair did not go through the fracture, but was only driven between the fractured edges of the external table. The head symptoms were almost immediately relieved by operation; he had no further bad symptoms, and he went to England well, with the wound healed, on 28th July. III. Penetrating and Perforating the Cranium and its Contents. The bullet, or a portion of it, is often lodged, and sometimes fragments of bone are depressed or driven into the brain. Leaden balls are generally flattened by striking against the bone; sometimes they are cut into two, one portion of which lodges and the other flies off (No. 2883, page 45 ; and 2902, page 47) at various angles, according to the obliquity of the projectile, force, &c., or it may remain under the scalp at the margin of the aperture, while the other portion entered the cranium (No. 2891, page 47). Laceration of the membranes and brain is usually followed by inflammation; still, very severe fractures with depression, and even with the lodgment of ex- traneous bodies, have not proved immediately fatal. However, there can be no doubt that these injuries arc very dangerous. The first thing to be done is to take away any loose frag- ments of bone and to elevate any depressed portions that can be raised without any additional injury to the brain, and like- wise any foreign body that can be found. When the brain has received a contused or lacerated wound, the anticipated inflammation is to be averted by the usual means, and protrusion is to be prevented by compress and bandage tightly applied.