GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING 30 curials. 6th.—Was much weaker; respiration decidedly more hurried; has had another convulsion ; died comatose in the even- ing. Post-mortem examination, eight hours after death.—Calva- ria firmly adherent beneath the seat of this injury. On removing it, a false membrane was observed on the dura mater, corresponding exactly to the parietal protuberance, and mea- suring about two inches in diameter ; vessels of dura mater and pia mater congested; underneath the dura mater, at the spot to which the false membrane was adherent, was a large clot of coagulated blood, of the size of a walnut, distinctly circum- scribed, and extending in depth to the roof of the lateral ventricle of the same hemisphere. Portions of this clot were degenerated into a reddish grumous matter, possessing no con- sistence. The cerebral substance around was softened; the other hemisphere of brain was quite healthy; no effusion in either of the ventricles; the internal aspect of the calvaria seemed at first quite sound, but after the bone was macerated, a distinct fissure, limited to the internal table, running parallel to the course of the ball, and about half an inch in length, was perceived; the other organs of the body were healthy. II. Contusion oh Fracture of the Cranium, with Depression or Displacement op both Tables. A\ hen the scalp is contused, considerable swelling and extra- vasation takes place into the cellular substance around the bruised part, which is depressed if the injury has been severe, in consequence of the vessels being paralysed and the cellular substance deadened. This swelling gives a feeling of fracture with depression, and ought always to be kept in mind, lest the surgeon comes to the conclusion that there is a depression uhen it is present, or that the depression is greater than it ically is. The extravasation may take place either below the integuments, between the occipito, frontalis tendon and peri- cranium, or between the latter and the bone. Symptoms of compression of the brain often show themselves but their severity is no guide to the extent to which a portion of bone is depressed. Occasionally the symptoms are very slight