213 LOWER EXTREMITIES. and feels for the projection of the scaphoid, which is the only prominent part which can he referred to as a guide; but these joints are so easily opened that there can be no difficulty in accomplishing the operation. A semilunar in- cision should be made across the dorsum of the foot, the liga- ments kept upon the stretch by forcible depression by the left hand, and the joints entered and disarticulated, and a large flap formed from the lower surface of the foot, the incision being- extended as far as the ball of the toes. In many cases it is advisable to saw off the exposed articular surfaces of both the astragalus and os calcis, otherwise exfoliation of the extremities of these bones is apt to take place, and there is also a danger of the flap not being sufficiently large to cover the bones. Hey’s Operation.—The surgeon should grasp the foot firmly with his left hand and find out the projection of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and also of the internal cuneiform ; he should then make a semilunar incision from the one point to the other across the dorsum of the foot; the toes should be well pressed down, so as to put the ligaments on the stretch, and then run the knife back again along the dorsum and the articu- lations entered, and, finally, a long flap formed from the sole of the foot. In disarticulating, it is usual to insert the knife perpendicularly, so as to divide a very strong ligament situated between the internal cuneiform bone and second metatarsal. The internal cuneiform bone projects to such an extent that it is advisable to cut it off with the forceps or saw. This and Chopart’s operations are much to be preferred to the more extensive mutilations at or above the ankle. Occa- sionally the heel is drawn backwards and upwards, particularly in the case of Chop art’s operation, and the weight of the body is thrown on the cicatrix and on the anterior ends of the bones; but if the stump is kept in a good position during the dressing, there is not much cause for anxiety. In performing these operations, the foot can also be trans- fixed by a catalin and the flap made first, and then the semi- lunar incision is made in front and the joints opened; but methods previously described are much more preferable. The great object in all these partial amputations is to save as much of the foot as possible, whether it is through the articulations