AMPUTATION OF THE 192 Fifty-two cases were admitted, of which 3 were sent to modified duty ; 48 invalided; 1 died. Of these, 33 were in the middle of the arm, and 12 in the upper third; 1 quite close to the tuber- cle ; 41 were healed, and 5 still remained open ; in 37 instances the cicatrix did not adhere to the bone; and in 9 cases it was found to adhere to a greater or less extent, generally very slightly. In 36 instances the flap operation appears to have been per- formed, and the circular method 8 times. 30 operations were done under the influence of chloroform, and 14 cases without this agent. 35 were primary, and 11 secondary amputation. In 3 cases severe sloughing of the stump followed. 2 of them xdtimately recovered; the third died at Fort Pitt. In 1 case there was also anchylosis of the shoulder-joint, resulting from the injury caused by round shot. The following is an example of sloughing taking place in the stump, along with haemorrhage from some small vessel, occur- ring in a scrofulous subject after a second amputation in the arm. It also shows how difficult it would have been to have found and secured the bleeding vessel in this case. 32nd Regiment.—John Healy, set. 20, wounded at Lucknow, Sep- tember 5th, 1857, by a round shot on the right wrist, carry- ing away the hand. The forearm was amputated the same day by double flaps under chloroform. The stump assumed an unhealthy appearance, and sloughed. One large piece of bone came away. Amputation was a second time performed on board a ship at the Cape of Good Hope, April 13th, 1858, eight months after the accident. The stump has never entirely healed. Fort Pitt, June 11th, 1858. There is now considerable inflam- mation around the stump, particularly along its inner side, and the cicatrix is raised and oedematous. It is probable that the bone is again diseased. There was thick, purulent discharge from the stump, but lie did not complain of pain in it. Appetite impaired, and bowels constipated; he is of a very strumous diathesis. On June 17th matter formed on the inner side of the stump : distinct fluctuation could be felt. On the 23rd the stump became suddenly very painful, redder, and more tense, and an incision was made into it, from which was discharged dark coagulated blood. He was in a very low, rencmic state. Oozing of blood took place from the stump, which was restrained bv the