GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE DIAPHRAGM. 96 4 lbs. 4 oz.; kidneys healthy, weight of right, 6oz., left, 6 oz. 2 dwts. Remarks.—Fletcher was in perfect health until immediately after he had taken a full meal, which, no doubt, he had fre- quently done since the time he had received the wound. It may, therefore, be asked what was the immediate cause of vomiting, and the sudden attack of illness; probably, the portion of the stomach still in the abdomen having become over-dis- tended, spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm may have been induced, and prevented the food from entering the larger portion of the stomach, situated in the thorax; but it might have been supposed that after the contents of the lower portion had been ejected, irritability of this organ would have ceased, which did not take place, but continued to the last without the slightest alleviation. The reason for supposing it was spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm is, that on examination the opening in this muscle was found large enough to admit two fingers with ease along the side of the gut. Although it was, however, known that he had been wounded in the side, yet it was never suspected that the wround was in any way connected with the disease for which he was under treatment; his general appearance was most peculiar, the con- tracted state of the abdomen, the total absence of all pain in his belly after the first day, and of all inflammatory symptoms, and the occurrence of pain in his left shoulder. It is known that in diseases of the liver pain in the right shoulder is a com- mon symptom. The pain in Fletcher may have had the same origin, whatever that may be, as no satisfactory explanation has as yet been given of it, except that it may depend upon some irritation of the ramifications of the phrenic nerve commu- nicated along its course to its origin from the cervical and bronchial plexus, and then reflected by twigs distributed to the shoulder. A number of the symptoms which presented them- selves in this case were those usually attended on strangulated inguinal hernia, viz., incessant vomiting and obstinate consti- pation, pulse small and wiry; but there was no stercoraceous vomiting, dissection showing that it could not occur. The intussusceptions were the first morbid appearances seen