PENETRATING, PE RE OR ATTN G, OR LACERATING. C>7 12 were admitted from India with lesion of the eye, of which 3 were sent to duty and 9 invalided; 1 was a case of total loss of vision of both eyes; 8 had lost the right eye, and 3 the left; 7 were supplied with artificial eyes. The 3 sent to duty had lost the right eye, and had artificial eyes supplied to them. The injury to the eyes was caused by musket ball in 8 instances, in 2 by a piece of shell, and in 2 by small shot. The musket ball generally entered the temples, passed in a slanting direction, and made its exit through the eye. The men supplied with artificial eyes were very much improved in appearance; and the different shades of colours of the iris and sclerotic were so well matched that it was almost impossible to tell the natural from the artificial one : so much was this the case, that the officers, on going down the ranks, were puzzled to know the one from the other; one man, in a drunken spree, had his eye broken to pieces, fortunately for him, without any injury from the broken portions of the artificial eye. 81th Regiment.—Private Francis Lyons,* wounded, September 25th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered the left temple in front of the car, and passed out through the eye; two pieces of bone were taken away, two hours after, from the aperture of entrance of the ball. January 11th.—The sight of the eye is now entirely destroyed; the eyelid remains entire; there is a hollow in the left temple from the loss of bone and muscle; the wounds are healed; complains of pain in the head. Remains undisposed of. 93rd Regiment.—Private Christopher Porter,* wounded November 16th, 1857, at Lucknow, by a small rifle ball, which entered the left orbit at the side of the nose, and passed across the right orbit, and out about the centre of the right zygoma, destroying the sight of both eyes. The scar of entrance of the ball cannot be detected, but that of exit is evident; there was considerable haemorrhage from the wound. June 11th.—The globes of the eyes were collapsed, and the humours escaped ; lie has frequently very severe pain in the head, and cannot stand exposure to the sun, or excitement of any kind. 64th Regiment.—Private Michael Kirwan, wounded August * The cases of Lyons and Porter are mentioned by Assistant-Surgeon Chaumont 1st Battalion of Rifles, in the ‘Edinburgh Monthly Journal ’ for December, 1858.