CONTUSION Oil FRACTURE OF THE CRANIUM. 35 parietal bone, showing the result of a gunshot fracture. A por- tion ol bone exfoliated, and there is now a depression in the external table, and corresponding to this there is a depressed fragment of the internal table, with smooth edges, which is re- united by new bony matter to the old bone. This specimen was taken from Private William Freeman, 80th Regiment, set. 35, who received a severe contusion of the head by a gun- shot, at Ferozesliali, December 22nd, 1815. When first under notice, there was no disturbance of the sensorial functions, and no breach of the scalp, but great tumefaction of the parts from eccliymosis; suppuration and exfoliation followed. The patient recovered perfectly, and neither then nor afterwards did he appear to have suffered cerebral symptoms in consequence of the wound. Died June 16th, 1851, of dysentery, with exten- sive pliagedsenic ulceration of the large intestines, and two ab- scesses in the liver; but whether the abscesses in the liver depended upon the injury to the cranium—the absorption of pus from ulcerated large intestine—is a question to be solved. On post-mortem examination, there was a slight depression in the cerebral substance and membranes of the brain, opposite to the fracture, which had a darker and more vascular appear- ance than elsewhere, but there was no thickening or trace of lymph.—Donor, J. 11. Taylor, Surgeon, 80th Regiment. The following is a good example of a considerable depressed fracture without a single had symptom, and complete recovery taking place in the short space of a fortnight without the use of the trephine, (See Plate I, fig. 2.) No. 2885.—From Private D. Mullens, 36th Regiment. Shows a depressed frac- ture of right parietal bone; it projects to a considerable extent internally, and new bone is thrown out around it. The mar- gins of the fracture are smooth and rounded off, and reunited to the old bone.—Donor, Dr. Russell, Surgeon, 36th Regiment. The next specimen shows well how much the inner table is broken and depressed compared to the outer, and the appear- ance after many years. No. 2886.—Skull-cap, exhibiting an old reunited fracture of the frontal bone. The inner table is considerably depressed, without corresponding depression of the outer. From a soldier who was wounded in the head in Spain several years before his death.