23 EXTRAVASATION OF BLOOD. Extravasation of Blood. As already stated, there are three causes of compression from external injury, viz., fracture with depression, extravasation of blood, and the formation of matter; the last of these has already been described. Extravasation of blood may take place in several situations—between the cranium and dura mater; in the arachnoid cavity; between the arachnoid and pia mater; between the latter membrane and the brain; at the base of the cranium; into the substance of the brain itself; or into the ventricles. When the blood is extravasated between the bone and dura mater it is generally collected together, and it is only in this instance that the trephine could be applied with the slightest advantage; but unfortunately the most careful examination of the history and symptoms does not enable the surgeon to ascertain the exact spot of extravasation, and there is, therefore, no means of knowing to certainty whether the extravasation is above or below the dura mater, or in the sub- stance of the brain. By most surgeons it is not deemed advisable to puncture the dura mater when the effusion is bclowr it, although several suc- cessful cases are on record where this has been done. The extravasation does not generally take place at once after the accident, at least to such an amount as to produce symptoms of decided compression, but they come on secondarily on reaction setting in. The amount of the extravasation is not of so much consequence as the rapidity with which it is effused, and much also depends upon the site where it takes place. A small quantity of blood extravasated at once produces more marked symptoms of compression than when it is poured out slowly; and when a larger amount of blood is spread over the hemi- spheres, it frequently causes very little disturbance, compared to a small quantity effused at the base of the brain, but especially at the posterior part of the base. In this case the symptoms are very urgent, and generally fatal. When any large vessel, such as the middle meningeal artery, is torn, the extravasation takes place at once to a considerable