190 AMPUTATION OP THE immediately below the neck, about two and a half inches in length, and comprising nearly the entire thickness of the shaft of the humerus, is necrosed ; the necrosed portion is firmly enclosed in a case of new bony deposit, through which there are two apertures opening externally; the medullary membrane is soft, spongy, and inflamed; the medullary canal is open inferiorily at the amputated extremity, and allowed of the free escape of discharge; a thick layer of new bone entirely sur- rounds the whole of the shaft. No. 2917.—Is a section (dry preparation) of the preceding. The entire shaft of the bone, with the exception of its neck, is surrounded by a thick, granular deposit of new bone. The compact structure of the old bone is soft and cellular; the medullary canal is also rough and spongy, the result of inflammation of its lining membrane; there is also an aperture in the neck of the bone, communi- cating with the medullary canal.—Donor, Dr. Dane, Staff- Surgeon. This specimen was taken from Private James Clarke, 77th Regiment, set. 21, of highly strumous diathesis and un- healthy aspect. He had suffered amputation of the arm about the middle third, in May, 1854, in consequence of severe gun- shot wound, and on admission into hospital at Colchester, September 4th, 1855, the wound was healed through the greater part of its extent, but there were two small sinuses opening on the face of the stump, which discharged profusely, and dead bone could be detected by a probe through each of them; his appetite was bad, and general health indifferent. April 19th, 1856.—His progress was so unsatisfactory that the operation of removing the stump at the shoulder-joint was decided upon, as the only chance of saving his life. He was low after the operation, hut rallied, and seemed likely to do well, until the 23rd, when he became low, irritable, and unable to take nourishment; constant nausea and diarrhoea set in, and a train of inflammatory symptoms, under which he gradually sank, and died on May 1st. At the post-mortem examination, the liver was found large and friable; the right kidney diseased; serous effusion in the peritoneal cavity, and deposits, marking the existence of sub-acute peritonitis; and the intestines were soft, dark, and injected. The whole structures around the shoulder-joint were abnormal and degenerated; and the ola-