145 COMPOUND FRACTURE OP FEMUR. at Lucknow, November 1st, 1857, by a musket ball, which struck the outer side of the left thigh, at the juncture of the middle and lower third, fracturing the femur, and passed out on the inner side; a number of pieces of necrosed bone have come away. Was sent in a dooley to Futtchpore, where he remained nine days; the limb being placed in a short splint along both sides; was then sent by dooley to Allahabad, where the long splint was applied, and retained four months. September 25th, 1858.—Aperture of entrance and exit healed; there is a sinus ou the outer and posterior aspect of the middle and lower third of the thigh, through one of which bone can be detected; the left leg is one inch shorter than the other, and there is great deposition of callus around the fractured ends of the bone, which have been considerably displaced. September 26th.— Invalided. The three following preparations, Nos. 2936, page 145, 2937, page 146, 2938, page 147, where the patients survived for many months, show the great amount of comminution which takes place even from the old ball, and the amount of distortion which unavoidably ensues from the impossibility of keeping up the requisite degree of extension, with the consequent necrosis of portions of bone, and the large quantity of callus which is thrown out. No. 2936 shows that the inflammation must have extended to the knee-joint, the patella having become anchylosed to the femur, writh absorption of the cartilages. In No. 2937 there are several large portions of bone, dead, and in process of separation. No. 2938 showrs an immense large comminuted portion lying behind, with very great displacement and shorten- ing, writh very profuse depositions of new osseous matter. The preparations Nos. 2936 and 2938 were from patients who were wounded at Ferozeshah. No. 2936 (see Plate VI, fig. 3). Comminuted fracture at the middle and lower third of the left femur, from gunshot. The bone is much distorted, and the lower portion is turned inwards; there is a large fragment lying in the posterior aspect, and the fractured extremities are united by a very abundant deposition of new osseous matter, in the centre of which are two portions of necrosed bone, firmly attached to the new bony matter. The patella is anchylosed to the femur and the cartilage on the latter is absorbed. The patient 10