83 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP THE CnEST. gradually diminishing. The pain is evidently muscular, and has been treated as such with relief. 27th.—On examining his lung there is still at the spot above noticed the same dulncss on percussion, with harsh respiration and increase of the vocal resonance. He is free from cough, and the position of the phy- sical signs just mentioned corresponds with the course of the shot through his lung; their disappearance cannot for the pre- sent be looked for. 30th.—Had an attack of pneumonia of the lower lobe of the left lung, Avith cough, and rust-coloured sputa. June 1st.—He Ammited from the elfects of antimony which he was taking. This is worthy of notice, on account of the oesophagus having been wounded. 2nd.—A few moist rale could be heard. 5th. — Quite Avell. July 20th.—Wounds healed; complains of some difficulty of breathing. August 26th. —Modified duty. Private Owen Doyle, eet. 24; total service four years and five months, of which he was four months in Malta, one year in the Crimea, and the remainder in India. Wounded at Cawn- pore, November 26th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered the right side of the chest four inches to the outer side of right nipple, betAveen the sixth and seventh ribs, about two inches under the right axilla, and passed inwards and backwards between the tenth and eleventh ribs posteriorly, where it lodged under the skin and muscles about two inches from the spinous processes of the vertebra, where it was cut doAvn upon and removed. The ball, on entering the chest, fractured the seventh rib, and on making its exit fractured the tenth rib. The usual symptoms attendant upon wounds of the lungs presented themseUes. The man stated that air passed out of both avouikIs, and he spat up blood for a long time after. Soon after the wound he was attacked with pneumonia of the wounded lung, and for many days he suffered considerably. Ultimately all symptoms of this disease subsided. The wound healed, though he still suffered from cough, dyspnoea, and slight pain in the right side of the chest.* August 16th, 1858.—Admitted into Port Pitt Hos- pital from India; wounds healed; complains of cough and shortness of breath. There was nothing abnormal to be de- * This case is noticed by Assistant-Surgeon Chaumont, Rifles, in the * Edin- burgh Medical Journal ’ for December, 1858.