54 SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. instance was very slight, its walls affording almost no resistance in consequence of their extreme thinness. It is evident that while fencing, as he had described, the cane had accidentally struck the unfortunate man’s face, probably from his own act in parrying the thrust, and that the point of it entered through the left ala of the nose, passing obliquely upwards and backwards until it emerged as described, by the side of the sella turcica. It is probable that the cane was broken off short in the nose when it was being withdrawn by his assailant. There can be no doubt if a detailed and accurate account of this unfortunate fencing match had been obtained at the time of the patient’s admission into hospital, and the stick which inflicted the injury had been produced (which was done after the man’s death), that the attention of the medical officer would have been directed to what he, without any further information than the patient’s negative statement, considered only as a trivial puncture in the ala of the nose, and which would, undoubtedly, have led him to ascertain that there was a foreign body impacted within the nostril, and probably pressing backwards so as to touch the brain. Dr. Anderson is, however, inclined to think that had all the above information been obtained at the time, the foreign body might not have been extracted from the situation it occupied in the man’s skull, as it required considerable force to drive it with a punch and hammer from within outwards in the dead body; and if it had been extracted, the question arises what chance was there of a fatal termination being averted.” Ihe following is a good specimen of a punctured wound of the cranium. No. 2792.—Left orbit exhibiting a small punc- tured fracture of the orbital plate of the frontal bone, just above the os unguis. The margins of the fracture were driven inwards. Produced by an accidental wound by a bayonet. The wound in the skin was very small and soon healed; fever, then coma, and death on the twelfth day. A small triangular portion of the fracture projected inwards, and was sticking in the dura mater; the membranes of the brain were inflamed near the wound, and covered with puriform matter.—Donor, Dr. Young, Surgeon, 95th Regiment.