GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING 10 to cause instant death, although on post-mortem examination no lesion of structure can he ascertained; or the brain may he found soft and pulpy, and yet no rupture may be discerned; or the accident may he so severe as to cause a very distinct rupture of the cerebral substance. In any severe injury of the head causing concussion the sur- face of the body is cold, the patient lies motionless and insen- sible, or only answering when spoken to, pulse feeble, pupils contracted and sphincters relaxed, and muscular power lost; this is the first stage, viz., depression marked by feeble circula- tion and insensibility, which generally lasts from a few minutes to two or three hours, and occasionally proves fatal. The second stage commences by the re-establishment of the circulation, the pulse becoming stronger and the surface warmer; vomiting generally takes place, which greatly assists the patient in re- gaining his consciousness. The third stage is that of extensive reaction with inflammatory symptoms. In some severe cases the patient remains for hours in the first stage, and as if com- pletely moribund, and finally he either recovers slowly or death takes place at once from failure of the heart’s action, or it may terminate in inflammation of the membranes or substance of the brain, which is called the third or inflammatory stage. On some occasions an irritable state of the brain remains, rendering the patient liable to be easily excited by any excess in living, and frequently terminating fatally within twelve months, or even more, after the injury. In other cases the memory, speech, hearing, and vision are very much impaired, or perhaps there is amaurosis or squinting. When the injury is inflicted upon the posterior part of the head, there may be loss of the muscular and virile powers. The treatment is very different in the three stages of concus- sion, and also according to its severity. In the first stage we assist reaction, if need be, by giving some slight stimulant, or remain, in many cases, a passive spectator, waiting for reaction and consciousness to take place. When there is great depression, warmth should he applied to the surface, and friction over the chest and abdomen, and, if necessary, stimu- lant enemata, &c. As soon as reaction is established we stop these restorative measures and trust more to the effort of nature.