174 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. lateral motion in a direction inwards to middle line. Invalided June 29th, 1859. Sergeant Michael Kearnan, 88th Regiment, was wounded on the 21st of October, 1858, at Burwah, by a musket ball, which entered over the outer hamstring. The wound is now soundly healed. The limb is somewhat atrophied, apparently from disease, but the motions of the joint are perfect. It is just possible that the cavity of the joint was not opened; but from the position of the cicatrices of entrance and of exit, it seems difficult to conceive how this could have been the case; and as usually happens when an instance of wound or injury of more than common interests presents itself, the documents for- warded with it are almost entirely destitute of information. If the joint was opened, the result of the case may be looked upon as most successful, for, as before stated, the motions of the joints are uninjured, and the limb will almost certainly re- cover its strength under judicious exercise. Ankle-joint. The following case was the only admission from India under this head:—37th Regiment.—Private Charles Smith, wounded April 17th, 1858, near Azinghar, by a musket ball, which entered the left instep in front, and about the in- ternal malleolus, and was cut out about two and a half inches lower down, and a little posteriorly. The inner malleolus appears to have been removed subsequently in fragments; an- chylosis of the ankle-joint has followed ; the foot turns slightly inwards, and the great toe is stiff. Invalided February 9th, 1859. G. Duddley, set. 28, 53rd Regiment.—Was wounded in Oude on the 27th April, 1859. The wound was in the right ankle- joint; for the most part only a contusion of the skin, but there was a small irregular opening through which apparently a jagged piece of metal had passed, and from which synovia} fluid exuded in considerable quantities. Great swelling of the foot set in, but this subsided, and the wound healed. The ankle-joint still remained slightly stiff, but otherwise walked well, and was sent to duty.