GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING 14 ferent parts, thickened and opaque; lymph is effused over the surface of the brain, chiefly at the seat of injury, in the fissures, or at the base of the brain. There is a muddy, sero-purulent effusion at the base of the brain and in the lateral ventricles, and the sinuses are gorged with blood. When symptoms of acute inflammation of the brain and its membranes supervene within forty-eight hours after the injury, active treatment should at once be employed, and on some occa- sions the means used may be successful; but more frequently symptoms of compression set in. In these cases purulent matter will be found cither collected into an abscess in the substance of the brain, or upon its sur- face, or, in some instances, the fluid poured out may be of a serous character. Inflammation sometimes does not set in for weeks or months after the accident, and in these cases it is very insidious, and usually terminates fatally. The symptoms may be either those of inflammation, irritation, or compression of the brain, according to circumstances. The same morbid appear- ance is generally observed in this—the chronic—as in the acute form, with the exception of the arachnoid being more constantly found diseased. In these cases the patient has, to all appearance, regained his usual health, or perhaps only com- plains of some slight head symptoms, or there is some func- tional disturbance of the brain, when inflammatory symptoms either come on slowly or very suddenly, and may very rapidly cause death, or the patient may live for some time quite help- less and paralytic. The treatment is strictly antiphlogistic; frequent bleeding from the arm, and leeches; the head shaved and ice constantly applied; bowels freely opened; calomel in small and repeated doses, until the mouth is affected; and the patient confined in a dark room, and kept perfectly quiet. In the more chronic stage, blisters to the scalp and nape of the neck, setons, &c., are the best means of subduing the disease.