HOSPITAL STEAMSHIPS. 247 and “ Melbourne.” That sailing ships are the best suited for the purpose of stationary hospital-ships, and that wooden are preferable to iron ones. I presume that in any future wars such vessels will be considered a part of the necessary equipment, and it is much to be regretted that they are not upon a per- manent footing, and used in time of peace for the transport of invalids from foreign stations. They should form a consti- tuent part of the hospital equipment of our army, have a staff of medical officers, and be directed and formed in all respects as a general hospital on shore. Wooden ships in tow of steamers are preferable to steamers themselves as floating hospitals; the engines and its appendages take up too much space, and do not admit of sick-decks being, as they ought to be, from stem to stern. Moreover, in tropical climates, wooden are found to be much cooler than iron ships.” Although not at all in any way connected with the subject of transport of sick and wounded, except that these two hospital- steamships “ Mauritius ” and “ Melbourne ” were ordered to convey the sick in the late war in China to the Cape of Good Hope, where there was a sanitarium, instead of sending them direct to England; Dr. Muir’s remarks appear to me so worthy of notice, that I take this opportunity of transcribing them, although much out of place in this part of the work : “ A sanitarium was established at the Cape of Good Hope chiefly for this expedition, and steam-vessels, if necessary, were ordered to be chartered for the more speedy conveyance of invalids thither. It may be questioned, however, whether a true sanitarium can exist anywhere out of England. Man is a complex being, and in sickness the mind must be ministered to as well as the body.” “ Tell a patient, worn down by exhausting disease or tropical heat, that he will be sent next week to the cool and healthy climate of the Cape, and he will turn on his pillow with indif- ference ; but tell him that he is to go home, and the magic sound of the word ' home’ even if he has not a near relative in the world, will make him quiver with joy.” Having been ordered to the Cape of Good Hope along with Mr. Taylor, C.B. & I.G., and placed by him in charge of the Sanitarium for Invalids from China and India in 1860,