GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 81 monia occurred only in four instances; in one case there was hernia of the lung. Out of 106 cases of this description of wound that occurred in the Crimea from the 1st April, 1855, to the end of the Avar, 82 died, and 24 were invalided or transferred, but it is not stated how many returned to duty. There are, lioAvever, the cases of one officer and one soldier detailed of recovery from this injury, aud where the lung had perfectly regained its normal functions, one (the officer) returned to duty. The wounds in all these cases from India were healed, with the exception of three, viz., in that of Doyle, Knox, and Moore. The case of Greenfield is interesting, as showing not only a wound of the lung, but also of the oesophagus, recover- ing and returning to duty. Private Walter Knox died at Gravesend of phthisis, and an extensive abscess was found extending from the wound near the right nipple to the crest of the ilium, with protrusion of the fractured ends of the ribs. The medical officer Avho made the post-mortem examination states that there Avas no communica- tion between the cavity of the thorax and the wound; and that there was no cicatrix nor trace of injury to the lung in the position of the Avound. But it appears that as the frac- tured ends of the ribs and the points of the false ribs protruded from the Avound, the pleura and lung itself could hardly have escaped injury. This case might, perhaps, have been more properly placed under Division 2, but, on account of the pro- bable lesion of the lung by the fractured ribs, and also from the difficulty of tracing the course of the ball, the lung being studded with tubercles, &c., it was thought better to be classed under Division 4. 34th Regiment.—Private George Bateman, set. 23, wounded at CaAvnpore, November 30th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered betAveen the seventh and eighth ribs, immediately be- neath the right axilla, passed inwards, dowmvards, and back- wards, and made its exit between the eighth and ninth ribs posteriorly, about two inches from the spine. On admission he complained of great pain in the direction of the Avound; there Avas considerable dyspnoea and cough, with bloody expectora- tion. On the 30th he had an attack of pneumonia. December 6