CONCUSSION. 11 In the first stage of concussion the circulation is weak in the lacerated part, and extravasation does not take place from the torn vessels, and they may he closed by natural means and not break out even after reaction has taken place. When reaction is hastened too rapidly the circulation is restored before the injured vessels are closed. The two errors to be avoided in the treatment of concussion is bleeding too prematurely in the first stage or that of depression, or by the too free administration of stimulants, so as to bring on reaction too rapidly; resulting either in extravasation of blood or inflammation of the brain or its membranes. The rule is to guard against allowing the depression proceeding too far, or to excite either a premature or excessive reaction. In the second stage strict rest and perfect tranquillity is enjoined; cold applications to the head, and other antiphlogistic remedies, according to circumstances. Sometimes in this stage symptoms arise requiring the use of stimulants; on other occa- sions the reaction is too violent, and we must resort to blood- letting, antimonials, &c. When the third stage has set in and inflammation is very active, antiphlogistic treatment must be rigidly pursued; bleed- ing, leeches, iced applications, purgatives, antimonials, &c., are the means to be employed, and when there is reason to suppose the effusion of inflammatory lymph, calomel in small and repeated doses ought to be administered, with counter- irritation. The brain often remains weak after inflammation, and the patient requires to be carefully watched and kept quiet. Frequently the sense of hearing, or smell, or the sight may be impaired; affections of the mind are also often the remote consequences of concussion, after the patient has been long convalescent and apparently cured. In some cases a slow chronic inflammation is set up in the cerebral substance long after the accident has apparently been recovered from, which ultimately leads to suppuration and death.