COMPOUND PBACTURE OP FEMUE, 151 1st Battalion 24th Regiment.—Private George Williams, aged 29; ten years’ service ; wounded at Umritzir on the 18th October, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered the right groin a little external to the vessels, and came out just posterior to the great trochanter, fracturing the femur; many fragments of bone came away from the opening. June, 1859.—Aperture of entrance and exit healed, but leg shortened one and a half inches; a sinus exists on the outer side of the hip, leading down to diseased bone; has just recovered from an attack of erysipelas of this thigh; the right leg is one and a half inches shortened; there is every prospect of the patient having a very good and useful limb; he is able to walk about upon it, with the assistance of a stick. Invalided 29th June, 1859. 86th Regiment.—Private J. Curtis, aged 35; fourteen years’ sendee; wounded November 23rd, 1857, at Mendeswor, by a mus- ket ball, which entered three inches below and a little internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and made exit over the trochanter. June 28th, 1859.—Fracture of the left femur at its upper third; bone united; limb three and a quarter inches shortened; some loose, dead bone can be felt through the un- healed wound of exit; has now a veiy good, useful limb, and can walk well. June 29th, 1859.—Invalided. This makes 12 undoubted cases of compound comminuted fracture of the femur that have arrived in England during the whole period included in this Report. Of these, 1 died at Gravesend (Walmsley), and 1 (Cunningham) where the cure is complete, but there is considerable deformity of the limb : de- ducting the death, there remain 11 cases with good, useful limbs out of the total landed, viz., 743, or P49 per cent. This is a large proportion compared with the results of the Crimean war, viz., 8 out of 2296, or 034 per cent.; and if the case of Moore, which is detailed below, was returned under this head, there would be a total of 13 eases.* When the bones of the leg are fractured so as to require im- * Four cases of gunshot wounds arrived from the war in Persia, all belonging to the 64th Regiment; on the termination of this war the 64th Regiment sailed for Calcutta, and formed part of the force under General Havelock in his advance on Cawnpore and Lucknow. These four cases, although actually wounded in Persia, are included in this return as from the mutiny in India; and one of them, M‘Carter, is a case of compound comminuted fracture of the femur.