107 PENETRATING OR PEREORATING. It is well known that gunshot wounds of the solid viscera, as also those of the small intestines, are generally fatal; still, this is not invariably the case, as is seen by the very fine speci- men No. 1271, page 111, Plate Y. Wounds of the large in- testines are also not so formidable or dangerous, especially when the wound is in the neighbourhood of the caecum or sigmoid flexure, where the intestine is more fixed and bound down, and only partially covered by the peritoneum. Two cases of abnormal anus by gunshot perforation appear to be a large proportion to the total wounded, 842. The 2296 cases of wounded from the Crimea furnish only one such case, Private James Beehan, 19th Regiment, who is now in Guy’s Hospital, never having recovered from the wound, though it has occasionally closed and again reopened, as has taken place in every one of the three cases now detailed. A note from Mr. Birkett, dated 21st January, 1859, says: “ He (Beehan) has since my last report suffered with severe attacks from albumi- nuria, and is anasarcous.” For particulars of this case, vide p. 330 of the Report on Crimean Wounded. Since the above was written, this case has terminated fatally; and the post- mortem appearances have been kindly furnished by Mr. Birkett:— Private Beeham was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, December, • 1858, and died in February, 1859. The peritoneum and the abdominal viscera were healthy, except adhesions between the spleen and left kidney and colon. In the left loin a fistulous opening led directly into the descending colon; it passes imme- diately below the lower edge of the left kidney. A sinus extended downwards behind the left colon as far as the ilium. A small piece of lead was fixed in the capsule of the spleen, but gave rise to no disease. Parts of the two lowest left ribs were necrosed. The lumbar vertebrae were slightly curved to the right side. A hole with smooth edges was seen between the left transverse processes of the second and third lumbar vertebrae. It corresponded to the intervertebral foramen, but was larger than natural, and admitted the finger into the vertebral canal. From this the bullet had doubtless made its exit into the colon. It was difficult to find the point of entrance of the ball, as the original wound had healed, and the tissues around Avere much indurated. The cicatrix in the skin of the lumbar region was