128 GUXSIIOT WOUNDS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. 23 were admitted under this head. G were sent to modified duty; 17 were invalided. 1 was caused by a piece of a shell, and the others by musket ball. All were fractured in the shaft of the bone, with two exceptions; 1 of them was through the head of the humerus—anchylosis of the shoulder-joint resulted ; the other was through the surgical neck of the bone; 1 only remained unhealed on arrival here. The following is a case of complete fracture of the humerus, with the ball lodged in the bone below the brachial artery. 53rd Regiment.—Private Patrick Radding, aet. 29, wounded, November 1st, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered on the outer side of the left humerus, about two inches above the elbow, and appears to have passed through the bone to the inner side, where it still remains imbedded in the bone; several pieces of bone have come away. June 11th, 1858.—There is now a firm, hard substance on the inner side under the brachial artery, and he cannot straighten the arm in consequence of contraction of the biceps; there is a deep depression at the entrance of the ball. As the ball did not cause much annoy- ance, it was not considered advisable to cut down upon it, and remove it, particularly as the man was averse to the operation. August 26th.—Invalided. The next is a case of fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, the shoulder-joint remaining sound. 78th Regiment. —Private George Mathews, wounded at Lucknow, September 25th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered in front of the left shoulder, through the anterior fold of the axilla, passing directly backwards, and came out at the posterior surface of the arm at the posterior margin of the deltoid behind the joint, causing a comminuted fracture at the surgical neck of the humerus; profuse suppuration ensued; several fragments of bone have come away. July lltli.—Apertures of entrance and exit of ball remain open; small pieces of bare bone can be felt; there is some enlargement of the bone at the seat of injury from deposition of new bone. The shoulder-joint is apparently sound, although he cannot move the arm, but he has perfect use of the forearm and hand. The following is a case where the ball passed through the head of the humerus, followed by abscesses and anchvlosis of