101. GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN measure, the escape of the intestinal contents. W hen the intestine is wounded, but does not protrude from the abdomen, extravasation of feculent matter is liable to take place; still it does not occur so frequently as might be expected, in conse- quence of the steady and equal pressure of the abdominal muscles and of the diaphragm upon the different viscera, that it requires some degree of force for the feculent matter to over- come this uniform support; besides, when the wound in the gut is less than a certain size, there is a natural tendency to close the aperture by the eversion of the mucous membrane. There- fore, unless the wound is very extensive, or the gut is very full at the time of the injury, faeces are seldom extravasatcd. Blood is more easily extravasated than the contents of the intestines, on account of the force of the circulation overcoming the pressure of the abdominal walls. These extravasations, viz., of faeces or blood, generally become circumscribed in small collections between the folds of the intestines, close to their origin, and therefore the chances of general peritonitis is greatly diminished. These localized swellings can occasionally be recognised by dulness on percussion in the situation of the wound, and sometimes it escapes by the external aperture. When the intestine is wounded, but not protruding, the ob- ject is to prevent feculent extravasation, and to localise the peritonitis that may ensue; the patient should be laid on the injured side, with the wround dependent, so as to allow of the escape of faeces; two grains of solid opium, or forty minims of the Liq. Opii Sodat., should be given, and the system kept well under its influence. The effect of the opium seems to moderate the peritoneal inflammation and the peristaltic movements of the intestines, and thus prevents the change of position, and diminishes the chance of the escape of its contents. Wounds of the intestines are closed by lymph, which is thrown out, not only from the contiguous peritoneal surfaces of the part actually injured, but from that of neighbouring convolutions, so that the wounded intestine, in some instances, becomes attached to the surrounding structures. When extravasation of feculent matter has taken place into the peritoneal cavity, the stitches and bandages should be re- moved from the external wound, so as to allow of the escape of