XVI INTRODUCTION. medical officers were in a very dependent position and without any responsibility; consequently, on the outbreak of this war, when great sickness occurred, the medical officers were at first much blamed; but after several commissions had assembled, the medical officers were exonerated from any neglect or want of precaution on their own parts, and everything was to be attributed to their want of responsibility and depending entirely on other departments. A Royal Commission was ordered, which recommended in a warrant, dated 1st October, 1858, a complete re-organization of the Army Medical Department in all its branches, and with the establishment of an Army Medical School, for the instruc- tion of candidates for the department. This had for many years been advocated by all the greatest writers on military subjects since 1798, when Mr. John Bell first brought it under the notice of Government. Lord Herbert, to whom it may be said that a great number of the improvements in the Army Medical Department are chiefly due, stated, on the opening of the Medical School at Fort Pitt, on the 2nd October, 1860, “that the objects con- templated by Government in establishing this school, were not only to give an acquaintance with the specialities of military medical life, but especially to teach the most approved methods of preventing disease.” At Fort Pitt formerly, and now at Netley, there have always been great opportunities of studying, diagnosing, and treating tropical diseases and those peculiar to soldiers; and this know- ledge could never be acquired in civil schools. Lord Herbert, on the same occasion, said further:—“ The Military Medical School which had now been instituted, resulted from this Commission; and while he was thus responsible for its origin, accidental circumstances had now made him officially responsible for its organization. The objects contemplated by the Government in establishing this school, were not only to give an acquaintance with the specialities of military medical life, but especially to teach the most approved methods of preventing disease. In this respect it was antici- pated that this school ought to produce great benefit. There was no opportunity of learning elsewhere much that would be