207 LOWER EXTREMITIES. September 8th, 1855, by a bullet through the integument of the knee. There being every probability that the joint was injured, perfect rest ivas enjoined, and leeches, fomentations, &c., applied. These means were ineffectual for restraining the inflammation. The joint appeared quite disorganized, and constantly discharged purulent matter. Amputation was per- formed on the 2nd November, 1855. On the 15th the wound had almost healed, when he was attacked bv acute ostitis in the shaft of the bone. The great suffering attending the inflammation wore out his strength, and he died on the 16th December, much exhausted and emaciated. Amputation at the Knee-Joint. In the ‘ Monthly Journal of Medical Science ’ for Septem- ber, 1846, will be found an interesting case of amputation at the knee-joint, performed by me, for disease. The pos- terior flap, especially, was made at first of great length, but it retracted so much, that the end of the femur protruded, and nearly two inches of the femur required afterwards to be sawn away. He ultimately died of phthisis. This case ought not to be noticed in a work purporting to be strictly on military surgery; still I am induced to do so, as disease of the knee- joint may happen to soldiers as well as civilians, and requires to be treated in the same manner. See remarks by Professor Fergusson. In the third edition of his work, 1852, page 500, he states that “ amputation at the knee-joint has never, to my knowledge, been performed in this country/’ so it appears at that time he could not have known of this case, nor of those of Mr. Syme, published in the ‘ Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science ’ for May, 1845, in the same year, December, ] 845, when this case occurred to me. At this time it was an innovation, and was done by me without the knowledge that Mr. Syme had performed several operations at the same part of the ex- tremity. Mr. Fergusson further states, and almost gives up his previous opinions, as stated in the last edition, 1852—“ Surgery has not arrived at the perfection of finality, and it would argue little for the zeal and discretion of those who have the opportunity