AMPUTATION OP THE 214 extremities of the anterior flap; afterwards the saw should be applied so as to take away a thin slice of the tibia and fibula, and likewise about half the os calcis, as the case may require, leaving the heel or end of the bone attached to the soft parts. The chief advantage of this method is that the surgeon avoids the tedious and rather difficult dissection round the head of the calcaneum. One case of amputation at the ankle-joint was performed, eight hours after the accident, in the 75th Regiment; and a very good stump resulted. With regard to the respective merits of the two methods of amputation at the ankle-joint, viz., that recommended by Mr. Syme, and that by Pirogoif, the profession has not yet come to a decision. Still, there appears to be some advantage in the latter, as being easier of execution, giving a longer stump and firmer support. In PirogofFs operation, when the ends of the tibia and fibula are sawn straight across, there is always great difficulty, or rather almost an impossibility, in bringing the calcaneum into apposition with the end of the tibia; so that it has been found necessary to remove several slices of the calca- neum with a strong bistoury before the bones could be brought to fit properly. To remedy this difficulty, the following modi- fication was adopted in a case operated upon by me, on the 24th December, 1858, at Fort Pitt. The articular extremities of the tibia and fibula were sawn off obliquely, the thick part of the wedge-shaped pieces being posterior. The os calcis fitted admirably. The wound healed rapidly, and a very good, solid stump resulted. The sawing of the ends of the bones obliquely is an improvement, and is Avell Avorthy of being generally adopted, as alloAving of easy adaptation of the calcaneum to the ends of the leg bones. Partial Amputations of the Foot. ChoparVs operation consists in the division being made betAveen the astragalus and calcaneum on one side, and the cuboid and scaphoid on the other. The surgeon places the palm of his hand on the front of the dorsum of the foot