EXCISION OF TIIE 228 the diseased bone, and the probe also entered from behind into the elbow-joint. The disease in the ulna was imagined to ter- minate about an inch above the wrist, but to extend into the elbow-joint. The radius did not appear to be engaged in the disease. The patient’s general health was good. August 30th. —The whole of the ulna, as -well as an inch and a half of the extremity of the humerus, and also the head and neck of the radius, were removed by a single incision along the posterior and inner side of the forearm by me. The skin was dissected back, and the ulnar nerve cleared away from the internal con- dyle. The disease was found to extend the entire length of the idna. An endeavour was at first made to disarticulate at the wrist by cutting the lower attachments of the ulna; but it w'as found to be much more easily accomplished by cutting the triceps and lateral ligaments, and getting into the elbow-joint. The entire ulna was now disarticulated and dissected out. An inch and a half of the ends of the humerus and radius wrere then removed. No vessels required to be tied. The wound was left open for three hours, when sutures were inserted, and the arm placed upon a straight splint. September 1st.—The arm was placed in a semi-bent position, and laid upon a gutta- percha splint. 5th.—The whole of the wound had healed by the first intention, and the sutures were removed. 8th.—The splint was taken away, and he could move his fingers and hand, and get his left hand to the mouth with the assistance of the right, but could not do so of his own accord. 10th.—The wound completely healed twelve days after the operation. 12th. —He continues to move the joint and use his finger; but is only just able at present to raise the forearm, showing that he is beginning to regain the power over the biceps muscle. The arm is, howrever, small and weak. There is every prospect of the patient having a very useful arm and hand. His general health is good, and he is out of bed and going about. No. 3636 (see Plate X, fig. 1).—On examination of the parts removed, it was found that the whole of the ulna was much enlarged, from deposition of new osseous matter, enclosing several portions of necrosed bone. The whole of the cartilages cover- ing the ends of the bones forming the elbow-joint were absorbed, and the bones carious. Dr. Woodhouse, of the