4G GUNSHOT INJURIES PENETRATING AND On being conveyed to camp lie presented all the usual symptoms indicating compression; pupils dilated and fixed, surface warm, unconsciousness, complete paralysis, &c. On examination of the depressed portion of the bone no opening whatever could be felt; the edge of the sunk bone and the bone adjoining were in contact, and it was presumed to be an ordinary case of fracture and depression. Some very minute portions of cerebral substance were observed to be mixed with the clot about the wound, such as might be squeezed through a fissure. Tre- phining being determined on, it was performed at once, and the depressed bone raised without difficulty. No relief what- ever followed; the dura mater bulged slightly upwards into the opening. On passing the finger over the surface a little beyond the space exposed by the trephine, a defined cut edge was felt a little more than an inch in advance of the site of the de- pressed piece of bone, being the boundary of an opening into the cerebral substance. Three hours after arrival in camp the patient sank. On post-mortem examination a wedge-like section of the ball (weight of section of ball 4 dwts. 5 grs.) was found to have entered and penetrated the cerebrum, and was discovered in the anterior lobe on the right side, just above the orbital plate; it had not completely penetrated, but was lying just above the membrane, covering the lobe. The ball, a conical rifle ball, with cunelares, was cut smoothly from apex to base, as if by a sharp knife. This muse have been done by the edge of the broken bone, above the opening made in the parietal bone, one half of the ball flying off, the other entering the skull. On close examination several minute points of lead were found to be imbedded along the fissured margin alluded to. The depressed piece of bone, directly after the section of the bullet entered, must have sprung up again by its own resilience, or been forced up by sudden pressure from within, so that no evidence of an aperture, but merely a depression and fissure, remained. The inner table was separated, and nearly detached from a space rather more extensive than that of the depressed part of the outer table. The superior longitudinal sinus was wounded by the sharp edge of the broken inner table, and a considerable quantity of blood extravasated upon the surface of the brain.”