AMPUTATION OF TIIE 212 been shattered by round shot, requiring immediate amputation, and where there also existed a simple fracture of the femur of the same thigh, which was not discovered for six weeks after. 78th Regiment.—Private Duncan McCrea, <et. 36, wounded September 24th, 1857, at Lucknow, by a round shot striking the left foot, and carrying it away ; at the same time he received an oblique fracture of the lower and middle thirds of the same thigh, which was not detected for six weeks after. The leg was amputated four inches below the knee, by the flap operation, about a quarter of an hour after, under chloroform. June 11th, 1858.—There is now a good stump, and the skin does not adhere to the bone. The femur appears to have been fractured obliquely, commencing about four inches above the knee; one extremity of the bone is found to project in front, and a groove is felt to proceed upwards and backwards to the posterior part of the middle of the femur. The knee-joint cannot be completely extended or perfectly flexed, so as to fit a leg stump, in consequence of the contraction of the rectus and vas- tus muscles. The left femur is an inch and a half shorter than the right, and he states that it only united on the pssaage home. —Invalided August 18th, 1858. Amputation at the Ankle-joint. This operation had not received much attention until of late years, when Mr. Syme brought it into notice and gave the re- sult of his experience. The object of this operation is to retain the skin from the lower part of the heel, as it is most likely to • form the best cushion for the body to rest upon, although the heel bone is removed. The merit of having first (in 1812) performed this operation is entirely due to Mr. Syme, the celebrated Professor of Surgery in the University of Edinburgh. Since then he has published many cases, which have fully established the success of this method. The operation is performed by Mr. Syme somewhat in the following manner:—A semilunar incision is made across the instep from one malleolus to the other, and then the knife is