142 GUNSIIOT WOUNDS OP THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. crutches; he states that during the voyage home he gained strength in the limb very rapidly. June 25th, 1858.—The femur appears to have been fractured in two places; the upper fracture is just below the spot where the ball entered, a projection of a fractured end of the bone is distinctly felt there, and another projection of a fractured end of bone is felt at the outer and middle part of the thigh; there is also a small tumour on the outer side of the thigh, below the strong fascia, which is only movable when the muscles are relaxed: this may, probably, be the ball; the limb is shortened to the extent of two and a half inches; he can now walk for a short distance with very little lameness, without crutches or stick, and states that he does not suffer auy pain unless he gets on uneven ground; his general health is good. September 6th, 1858.—Sent to modified duty. December 22nd.—Invalided. In the two following cases the fracture was in the upper third; the broken limbs were one and a half inches shortened, and they had become nearly as strong as the other legs. 53rd Regiment.—Private John Ashworth, set. 29, wounded November 1st, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered two inches below the great trochanter, and emerged in the front of the thigh at its upper third, having in its course fractured the bone; the limb is one and a half inches shorter than the other. July 14th, 1858.—Wounds healed; complains of weakness in the limb, but is able to walk about without the assistance of a stick. September 6th.—Sent to modified duty. 52nd Regiment.—Private Joseph Hewitt, set. 27, wounded July 12th, at Goodispore, by a musket ball, which entered on the anterior aspect of the upper third of the left thigh, and fractured the femur; the ball was cut out in the lower part of the gluteus muscles six weeks after. July 20th, 1858.—Wound healed; the fractured ends of the bones overlap; the leg is now an inch and a half shorter than the other, and he cannot put his heel to the ground. It is a good cure, and he still retains a very useful limb; no pieces of bone came away; long splint used. 22nd.—Invalided. The following is a case of fracture of the upper third; the ends of the bones overlap considerably; the limb is shortened two and a half inches, and the ball lodged. 75th Regiment.