GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP THE CHEST 79 requires to be treated on the usual principles of surgery, viz., strict antiphlogistic measures, rest, and cold-water dressing where circumstances demand it. A firm elastic bandage should be applied to the chest, so as to restrain the motion of the ribs and to cause the patient to perform respiration as much as pos- sible by the diaphragm, and strict watch kept for the superven- tion of pneumonia or pleuritis. Incised wounds of the chest should be closed by sutures, and a compress and bandage applied. When there is much haemor- rhage from a small wound it ought to be enlarged, and if a bleeding vessel can be detected external to the cavity, it ought to be secured by a ligature. Should the blood be found to come from the inside of the chest, it should generally be closed as soon as possible, although in many cases the loss of a considerable quantity of blood is rather advantageous than otherwise. When blood has been effused into the cavity of the chest, the wound may be left open for a few hours, or even reopened after a longer period, for its evacuation, and afterwards closed should symptoms of difficulty of breathing and approaching suffocation show themselves. During the state of shock a little cordial should be adminis- tered, and the patient enjoined to remain perfectly quiet. Ac- cording as reaction takes place, the general, and especially the local symptoms ought to be watched, viz., for inflammation of the lungs and pleura. Copious and indiscriminate bloodletting was formerly recom- mended in such injuries, but is now seldom followed. Many cases, where there can be no doubt of the lung being wounded, have recovered without bleeding, and in other cases the dis- tressing symptoms have been little alleviated, or the fatal termination averted by copious bleeding. The surgeon must use his discretion as to the necessity of venesection, and the amount in each case. By this it is not meant to dissuade entirely from venesection in wounds of the lung, but merely to state that because the lung has been wounded, the patient need not, as a matter of necessity, be bled to syncopy, and that repeatedly. Pneumonia to any great extent does not usually follow gunshot wounds of the lung, and that only along the tract of the ball, but it appears as if the amount of pneumonic