168 GUNSHOT WOUNDS, WITH DIRECT PENETRATION Elbow-joint. Four cases were admitted from India. All liave been invalided. In these elbow-joint cases there can be no doubt of the direct penetration of the joint, with comminution of bone, resulting in anchylosis. In three of them the ulnar nerve was injured. In these instances the olecranon was fractured, and in one case the external condyle; the joint was anchylosed in all of them. In three of them the forearm was at an obtuse angle. In the fourth case the arm was quite straight, and the elbow-joint anchylosed, rendering the arm very useless; but in this case the humerus had also been fractured, making it very difficult to treat; even now the limb is much more useful than any artificial arm which he could have been supplied with. In none of them had resection been performed, and it becomes a question whether these patients would have had a more useful arm had the joint been excised, so as to allow of free motion of the joint. If it were possible to induce patients to use the arm at an earlier period of the treatment, they might preserve some motion in the joint. “ Of 30 injuries in the elbow-joint among the men in the Crimean War, and 4 among the officers, 4 were fatal without operation. 2 of these were complicated, with injury of the artery (1 of the brachial and 1 of the ulnar), and the fatal result seems to have been mainly due to the continued effects of shock and loss of blood.” In the two following cases from India the joint is anchylosed, and the arm in a bent position. 32nd Regiment.—Private Harry Arthurs, mt. 33, wounded September 27th, 1857, at Lucknow, in the left elbow. The musket ball entered over the external condyle, and passed out on the inner side of the olecranon opening into the joint; severe inflammation and suppuration followed. The arm is now in a bent position, and the elbow-joint is anchylosed. He has lost the power over the fingers, and has no feeling in half of the ring finger and little finger. June 22nd, 1858.—Invalided. 78th Regiment.—Private William Wardleworth, set. 34, wounded at Lucknow, September 25th, 1858, by a musket ball in the right elbow-joint. It entered over the olecranon, and was