INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 233 Knee-joint. Excision of this joint is very rarely practised in the present clay for gunshot wound. There is a great similarity between the diseases of the elbow and knee; but in the excision of the latter there is a greater relative danger on account of the larger extent of the ends of the bones to be removed. In a case where the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia are injured by a musket ball, without much laceration of the soft parts, ex- cision may be performed in preference to amputation of the thigh, with a chance of success, provided absolute rest and good accommodation can be obtained. If sufficient data could be procured, it might be found that excision of the knee would bear a like proportion to that of the elbow as amputation in the thigh does to that in the arm, and therefore excision in the lower would not be so successful as in the upper extremity. Anchylosis of this joint after serious disease is what is most desired if the limb is in a straight position, and the same object should be the aim of the surgeon after excision, either for injury or disease of the joint. I have seen two cases of excision of the knee-joint which had been performed by my respected teacher. Professor Fergusson, in patients who had suffered from disease of the joint, and which had become anchylosed with the knee in a bent position. Wedged-shaped portions of the articular ends of the bones were taken away and the limb straightened. Several months after the operation the patients had good useful limbs, and able to walk about for miles without the aid of a stick, the leg being- only an inch, or an inch and a half shorter than the other, thus forming a much better substitute than any artificial limb. The operation may be performed in the following manner :ѥ On each side of the knee-joint ah incision about three or four inches in length should be made on each side of the joint, opposite to the lateral ligaments, and another made across in front, so as to unite with the other and form a letter II. The ends of the soft parts should be dissected upwards and down- wards and the patella detached; and then the lateral and