CONTUSION OR FRACTURE OE THE CRANIUM. 37 raised, on the receipt of the injury. Subsequently, when the patient was in such good health, there was every prospect of his ultimate recovery, and a surgeon under these circumstances would have had considerable hesitation in recommending an operation, and most likely the patient could not have seen any necessity for having a hole made in his skull. No. 2894.— Depressed fracture of the posterior part of the right parietal bone. A sharp margin of the bone must have pressed to a great extent on the dura mater and brain. (See Plate I, fig. 4.) Sergeant Shea, 49th Regiment; wounded June 7th, on the side of the head, with a piece of shell; admitted into Barrack Hos- pital, Scutari, July 28th. The wound had cicatrized and he appeared to be in good health. Great depression of bone could be felt. He complained of burning pain at the seat of the injury. There was not the slightest tendency to paralysis, when he was suddenly seized with convulsions at 7 a.m. July 31st, and died in about two horn’s. After death a large portion of the poste- rior part of the parietal bone was found depressed; there was a collection of blood in a fluid state between the dura mater and the bone; brain somewhat congested, but otherwise healthy. Out of 15 cases of this description of fracture that occurred in the Crimea, and are recorded in the Museum Catalogue, 4 were not operated on, and, of these, 3 died of abscess of the brain and 1 recovered. Of 11 operated upon in consequence of symptoms of compression or inflammation, and to remove balls, 4 recovered and 7 died. In the 15 cases, none of them had head symptoms for some days after being wounded, and none were operated upon before the fourth day, and 1 as late as the twenty-sixth day, and consequently after inflammatory symptoms had shown themselves. The following are examples of some of the cases where the trephine or Hey’s saw was employed. No. 2900.—Shows the portion removed by the trephine from Private Leary, 18th Regiment. In this case the fracture was on the right parietal bone, a^d paralysis of the left side of the face followed, the result of suppuration in the substance of the right hemisphere and membranes of the brain. Trephined four days after he was wounded, and died seven days after the operation. The following specimen, from Private Conolly, 1st Battalion