124 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. enters above the clavicle, and passes through the superior angle of the scapula; occasionally the ball injures both scapulae, passing from side to side: in another the ball may go between the scapula and ribs. Partial fracture of a long bone is generally followed by necrosis, and the results are well exemplified in the case of Private John Lloyd, detailed below. Under this head 50 were admitted, of which 19 were sent to duty ; 8 to modified duty ; 22 invalided; 1 died of pyemia. All were produced by musket ball, with the exception of 1 by a piece of a shell. 14 were injuries of the scapula; 4 of the clavicle; 6 of the humerus; 3 of the radius; and 3 of the ulna. Of the 14 cases of partial fracture of the scapula, 6 were sent to duty; 2 to modified duty ; 6 invalided. Of the 4 cases of partial fracture of the clavicle, 2 have been sent to duty; 2 invalided in consequence of loss of power in right arm: in this case the aperture of entrance was healed on arrival here, but that of exit was still open, and led down to bare bone in the clavicle. Of the 6 cases of partial fracture of the humerus, all occurred in the shaft of the bone; 1, as already stated, died of pyemia. This case of Private John Lloyd is interesting, as illustrating (Prepara- tion No. 3629, see Plate VI, fig. 1) the appearance of a partial fracture or indentation of a long bone, caused by a musket ball, which was followed by necrosis of the part injured, while the re- maining portion of the thickness of the shaft still continues in- tact ; also the wound remaining open and suppurating, rendering the patient liable to blood-poisoning by the absorption of pus. 9th Lancers.—Private John Lloyd, wounded at Delhi, August 12th, 1857, by a musket ball in the right shoulder, which passed through on the inner side of the humerus, and made its exit on the posterior side of the arm. Both wounds healed before leaving India, but broke out on board ship. August 2nd, 1858.—The aperture of entrance is large, about an inch in diameter, and discharges freely. General health is indifferent and of a scorbutic tendency. 5th.—He complained of dyspnoea; the wound looked sluggish; tongue coated; gums spongy; suffered from pains in the back and loins, especially in the right