COMPOUND FRACTURE OP FEMUR. 147 but united by new bony deposit, which forms a large cavity ; the end of the lower portion of the femur is necrosed and in progress of being separated; there are also several other portions of necrosed hone, either partially separated or hound down by the new hone; a comminuted portion of bone is situated on the outside, attached to the others by bony union. No. 2938 (see Plate VII, fig. 3). Lower part of the right femur, showing an extensive comminuted fracture from gunshot. The broken ends are much displaced; the lower portion lies to the inner side of the upper, having been drawn upwards and inwards by the action of the muscles; the limb must have been shortened to the extent of three or four inches ; there is a large fragment at the posterior part of the preparation, which is united to the two fractured ends, but particularly to the lower portion, by a very abundant deposition of new osseous matter; there is a large cavity between the posterior fragment and the lower portion of the femur; the upper extremity of the fracture lies to the outer side of the lower, the extreme end of which is sharp and pointed, having been fractured obliquely, and, probably, protruded through the skin. From an officer who received compound fracture of the thigh from gunshot, at Ferozeshah, and afterwards died of phthisis pulmonalis. The preparation No. 2939 is a good specimen of ununited frac- ture at the middle of the femur, and shows the amount of commi- nution which follows from two conical balls, and also the deterio- rated state of the patient’s constitution, very little callus having been thrown out. The bone in this case is not nearly so exten- sively comminuted as in preparations Nos. 2936, page 145, 2937, page 146, and 2938, page 147, which were produced by the old round ball. This specimen is also an excellent example, showing the care which is requisite in examining gunshot wounds, either before inflammation has set in, or when operative measures have become necessary. In this case two minie balls had entered the limb; one of them was loosened by the suppurative process, and was extracted, and the other was found, on post-mortem ex- amination, lying between the ends of the ununited fracture. The ball is also seen to be enclosed between the ends of the united fractures in the case of Walmsley, page 143. The same has been noticed in the e Report on the Wounded from the