244 TRANSPORTATION OP STCK AND WOUNDED. of such a hot country, arc surely as able to serve in the capacity of bearer in a European climate as the British soldier is able to serve as such in the Bengal climate. There should be eight bearers to each dooly, with the usual number of sirdars, mate- bearers, and mussalchccs; they should be enlisted, have extra pay for foreign service, and be entitled to a pension on being sent back to India, disabled by disease or injury. Stretchers, which roll up with a covered pall, and of the ordinary canvas pattern, are best, but they should always have a movable transverse bar of iron to keep the poles separate, else the weight of the patient sinks down the canvas so as nearly to touch the ground, and the poles close in upon the bearers so that it is almost impossible for them to move. II. Conveyance on the Back of Animals—Horses, Mules, Elephants, Camels, &c. Litieres.—This is a means of conveyance for a sick or wounded soldier, extended at full length, one on each side of a horse or mule. They have certain disadvantages. It is very difficult for a man in perfect health to get up into them; and it would require at least three, if not four men, to lift a wounded comrade, and the horse at the same time perhaps restive. Having placed the patient in it, this side sways down and makes it more difficult to get the second man into the other, and with- out two to adjust the weight the horse could not carry its load with any comfort to the wounded ; and further, it takes away (in some cases) four men to help one wounded comrade, in a not over-pleasant conveyance, when they ought to be in the ranks. Still, in many cases on service there is no doubt that they have been found of great service; the French used them in the Crimea with advantage, and during the last war in China Inspector-General Muir, C.B., Principal Medical Officer of the Expeditionary Army, states that the litieres and cacalcts did ex- cellent service, and this is from an officer of very great experience in these matters. Cacalets are a means of conveyance for sick or wounded men in a sitting position, one on each side of a horse or mule, &c. The same remarks arc applicable to cacalets as to litieres.