00 FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. surgery. In some cases the whole of the lower jaw is carried away, and still the patient may survive, but death more generally is the result. This bone is well supplied with blood, so that necrosis to any great extent does not generally follow severe comminution; still, callus is not thrown out so copiously for the repair of frac- ture as in the long bones of the extremities. Ununited fracture of the lower jaw does not seem to have been of such frequent occurrence amongst the wounded from the Crimea as those from India. Eight were admitted from India with fracture of the lower jaw. Of these, five were invalided, two sent to duty, and one to modified duty. Of these eight cases, three were instances where the fracture still remained ununited, although the fractured ends of the bone were in contact. In one case the ball struck one side of the lower jaw, and was cut out on the opposite side, one month after, fracturing the bone on both sides. In one the ball was cut out from below the tongue. In one case, from a shell wound, there was a double fracture; one on the right side of ramus, and also another, near the symphysis, with great laceration of soft parts and deformity resulting; the first-named fracture remained ununited. In another case there was a double fracture from a musket ball; the fracture at the en- trance of the ball still remained ununited; that at exit had become united. In one, case, from round shot, the whole of the left ramus of the lower jaw had been extracted at the time, or came away by exfoliation, leaving a large chasm and great de- formity on this side of the cheek, from laceration of the soft parts. In one case there was a fracture on the left side, at the angle of the jaw, still ununited. Attempts were made to excite action in the ends of the bone by forcible rubbing together, and afterwards keeping the two fractured ends at rest by wire round the teeth, and a piece of cork placed between the teeth of the posterior fragment and that of the upper jaw, but without success. It was not thought advisable to try the effects of a seton or other means of inducing the effusion of new bone. 93rd Regiment.—Private William Jeffreycs, wounded at Cawnporc, December 1st, 185/, by a piece of shell on the light