89 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP THE CTIEST. exit of ball, and along supposed track through the lung, normal; and percussion clear. September 8th.—Duty. 90th Regiment.—Patrick Farrell, set. 24, wounded, November 17th, 1857, at Lucknow, by a musket ball in the right side of the chest; the ball entered over the angle of the ninth rib of the right side, and passed out half an inch from the spinous process of last dorsal vertebra; several pieces of bone came away from the aperture of exit; he spat up blood at the time and also on several occasions afterwards. On the 10th October, 1858, the wounds healed. It is difficult to say whether the internal organs were wounded or not, and if so, whether it was the lung or liver; respiratory murmur and percussion on this side normal. October 15th.—Duty. 2nd Battalion Rifles. — Private William Moore, set. 37, wounded at Cawnpore, November 28tli, 1857, by a musket ball, which penetrated the left side of the chest, three inches below and a little to the left of the nipple, and came out at a corresponding point, behind where it injured the rib. The man states that wind came out of the wound, and that he spat blood. July 13th, 1858.—The anterior wound is healed; the posterior is still discharging, and a piece of diseased bone can be felt. September 30th.—Duty. Private James Moore, 75th Regiment, set. 23. Wounded on the 18th July, 1857, at Delhi, by a musket ball, which entered the thorax, one inch and a half below and a little internal to left mammilla, and after a course of seven inches made its exit behind. The lung seems to have been wounded, but not deeply; abscesses formed in the track of the wound, and many fragments of rib were subsequently extracted. The lung seems to work well; the wound is quite sound, but tender to the touch along the whole track ; percussion in the immediate neighbour- hood of the wound is dull, and the respiratory murmur not very audible. He is stout and in excellent health. Sent to modified duty. Private J. White, 3rd B. Rifles, set. 23. Was wounded 8th October, 1858, at Sandclah, by a musket ball, which entered four and a half inches above the nipple, and one and a half to the right of the middle line in front, and made exit behind, about centre of body of scapula, four inches to the right of the