2 GUNSHOT WOUNDS IN GENERAL. 1 oz. 2 scr. 1 gr. The Minie ball used by some French regiments are 1 oz. 2 dr. 2 scr. 10 gr. The siege rifle ball used by the Russian army, with a conical flat base, three rings, and two raised ribs to fit grooves in the barrel, is 1 oz. 5 dr. 3 gr. There are also cannon of different size and formation, made to throw either round shot, or cylindrical shot, or shell percus- sion, as in the Armstrong gun, &c.; there is the mortar for a + vertical fire, calculated to throw shell; for the smooth-bore cannon there is the solid shot, the grape shot, and the canister shot. Bar shot are two large shots joined together with an iron bar between, and chain shot with a chain between two large shots. The shrapnel shell is a hollow sphere of iron, filled partly with gunpowder and with iron balls of small size, &c.; the common shell is an iron ball filled with powder only. The wounds inflicted by these various projectiles are, of course, very different. The rifle bullet produces a very small wound com- pared to those caused by large shot, but still they are often as fatal in their effects. J. R. Taylor, C.B. and I.G., in his ‘ Explanatory Observations on Classification of Gunshot Wounds/ states: “ It may at first appear objectionable to class together wounds by bullet, cannon, shot, and shell; but taking all classes of wounds brought in off the field, it will be found that the danger is more commonly in proportion to the part struck, than to the weight or magnitude of missiles.” A pistol charged with powder, if discharged with the muzzle resting close to the chest, has been known to be the cause of death. Wadding and pieces of cloth also occasionally produce serious injury. When a gun is loaded with small shot and fired close, it causes a severe lacerated wound, from being in a solid mass; when fired at a greater distance it scatters, and is less dangerous: still, if a single shot penetrated the eye, it will destroy vision, or, if it should penetrate the heart, it may cause instant death. Several men from India lost the sight of an eye from this cause. A musket ball generally traverses, leaving two apertures, the one of entry and that of exit j sometimes there is only one aper- ture, and in this case the ball is probably lodged. Occasionally, however, the ball drops out through the aperture by which it