62 ABSCESS OF TIIE LIVER, ETC. the last two days a fungous tumour has sprang from the situation of the wound in the dura mater, and is now almost the size of a hazel-nut, of a bright, pink colour, and pulsating; it is diminished by pressure without causing any pain or uneasiness, but on pressure being removed, returns to its former size. 15th.—Wound healed; sent home for change of climate, as India would be too hot for a person who had lost such a large portion of bones of the head. VIII. Abscesses of tiie Liver consequent on Gunshot Wounds of the Head. Abscesses of the liver resulting from injuries of the cranium have been thought to be of frequent occurrence, more espe- cially in those which suppurate than from simple concussion. Sometimes after a severe shock no abscess forms in the liver; at other times abscesses are found where no shock has been received. They are also occasionally observed in cases of dis- eased brain arising from other causes. In many cases of injury of the cranium neither the liver nor any other organ sympathises; in others almost every organ suffers. There may be only slight pain in the region of the liver, torpor, or bilious diarrhoea, or some other evidence of functional disturbance, to the actual formation of abscesses in the liver; they are most frequently deep-seated, and of very large size; sometimes, however, they are superficial, and they may either point externally, or burst into the lung, stomach, or colon. The abscesses are of a very chronic character, and form without almost any general disturbance; at other times there are symp- toms of acute inflammation. Injuries of the head very frequently occur to people under the influence of liquor and to those of intemperate habits generally, where the liver is otherwise dis- ordered, and are thus rendered more susceptible to disease. On the other hand, they arc observed in those of abstemious habits. The stomach also suffers from sympathetic nervous influence, vomiting and irritability of the stomach being frequently observed where no diseased appearance is discoverable on dissection. The spleen is likewise disturbed by the shock in injuries of the head,