CONTUSION OR FRACTURE OF THE CRANIUM. 39 trating the extensive injury inflicted by grape, and the com- minuted fracture which is the result. There are also other preparations in the museum illustrating the removal or forcible elevation of depressed bone from Collins, Scribbins, Perry, and Perkins, whose cases are detailed in the second volume of the 1 Medical and Surgical History of the British Army in the Crimea.’ No. 2897.—John Collins, 88th Regiment, wounded on the 13th of July, by a shell on the right side of the head, was admitted at the Castle Hospital on the lGth. On admission there was fracture, with much comminution of the anterior inferior angle of the right parietal bone, with a good deal of depression of the fractured portion plainly felt through a large lacerated wound of the scalp. During the three days he had been in the Regimental Hospital he had suffered from occasional head- ache; but there had been little further symptoms of head injury present. After a journey of seven miles from the front he was much exhausted, and almost in a state of collapse on admission, but came round on the exhibition of a stimulant. He complained of much headache, and begged something- might be done to relieve it; but there were otherwise few head symptoms present. On the 17th symptoms of compression had appeared, the journey, probably, having aided in producing them, and it was determined to remove or elevate the depressed bone. The trephine was applied, and very many fragments of depressed and much comminuted bone removed. The dura mater was now found to be lacerated to the extent of nearly an inch, and, on separating the torn edges, the brain was seen covered with thick lymph-like matter. Almost immediately on the depressed bone being elevated he became sensible, and, towrards evening, the symptoms of compression had almost entirely disappeared. On the 18th and 19th he seemed to be going on well, but still complained of headache and intolerance of light; his skin was cool; tongue clean ; pulse 86. During the night of the 20th he felt something give way in his head, and, on the dressings being removed in the morning, a fungus projected from the wound, which increased rapidly during the day, till it attained nearly the size of a hen’s egg, with return of headache and twitching of the muscles of the left arm. He