41 GUNSHOT INJURIES PENETRATING AND and (Mr. Ilenncn adds in italics) “ he died comatose, with all the symptoms of compression.” * The following is a good example of a perforating gunshot wound of the skull, and shows extremely well the usual cha- racters of the aperture at the entrance and exit of a musket ball. The outer margin of the entrance of the ball is seen to be smooth, and its inner surface larger and more irregular, and (in this case only slightly) splintered; the internal table being generally splintered to a greater extent than the outer, which is thought to be owing to its being more brittle. The entrance and exit of the ball in this skull show that this appearance is rather produced by the injury proceeding from without in- wards, and also from the force of the ball becoming less in passing through the outer table. No. 2881.—Skull-cap, exhi- biting two perforations made by a pistol ball in the anterior and right side of the frontal bone, and in the posterior part of the left parietal bone. The ball entered in the former situa- tion, and lodged in the latter. The first opening is round and smooth; the second is regular on the inner table, but the outer is torn up to an extent much larger than the ball, which is lodged in front of the splinters. From an officer who was killed in a duel. The following specimen shows the result of a gunshot frac- ture, where the patient survived fifteen weeks after the injury. It is to be presumed that any loose splintered pieces of bone (if any existed) were removed by the surgeon, and in all proba- bility other portions were driven into the brain along with the ball; still, the man lived for some time, and became con- valescent, with the ball in the lateral ventricle. The internal surface of the bone shows marks of vascular action, with slight osseous deposit around the opening. Three large wormian bones are seen in tbe preparation, and the gunshot hole is through two of them. No. 2882.—Portion of a cranium in which is a circular perforation made by a musket ball at Waterloo. The external margin of the hole is sharp, but tbe internal is rounded off, and of somewhat larger diameter than the former. The ball lodged in the brain. The man, however, became convalescent, until lie was attacked with apoplexy fifteen * Henncn’s ‘ Military Surgery,’ p. 353, last edition, 1829.