60 IIERNIA CEREBRI. bone. ‘ It is sometimes necessary to trephine at the frontal sinuses, when the external table should be removed with a trephine of larger size, so that the internal table may be more easily reached. Hay's saw is sometimes very useful in removing portions of bone. The scalp should be replaced, sutures if necessarv inserted, and cold water applied, and antiphlogistic measures adopted to avert inflammation of the brain and its membranes, or of the veins in the diploes or in the sinuses, which may suppurate and quickly prove fatal. The opening made in the skull by the trephine is filled up by the same process as takes place in the formation of new bone in other parts of the osseous system ; the pericranium, dura mater, and bone all assisting in it. The aperture in the skull is filled up, either entirely or only in part, according as the peri- cranium and dura mater are injured, the age of the patient, and the size of the hole; plastic matter is thrown out, filling up the opening, which becomes cartilaginous, and in which granules of new osseous matter is deposited chiefly around the margin. The aperture never becomes perfectly firm and the same as the rest of the skull, whatever may be the age of the patients, and in some cases the opening requires to be protected by a piece of leather or some kind of elastic cap. 4 VII. Hernia Cerebri. Hernia, or protrusion of the brain, takes place in cases of compound and comminuted fractures with laceration of * the cerebral substance. It sometimes projects through the aperture, becomes strangulated, and sloughs, and generally terminates fatally from inflammation; or it may project and undergo the same process without, in some cases, any material derangement to the cerebral functions. When a deficiency of the cranium exists, whether caused by the use of the trephine or not, precautions ought to be taken to 5 pi event hernia of the brain by steady and uniform pressure, and by strict antiphlogistic measures. When a hernial protrusion has actually taken place, steady and firm compression and ban- daging are the best means of cure.