3G . GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING The following is one of those obscure cases of injury ot the head where, immediately after the receipt of the injury, there is no relation between the symptoms developed and the actual extent of the lesion. There must have been a large extravasa- tion of blood in the left hemisphere immediately on the receipt of the wound; and yet the patient was able to walk home, a distance of two miles, and not the slightest symptom of para- lysis was discoverable. No. 28S8.—Calvaria, showing fracture of the left parietal bone, caused by a shell. The depressed portions of bone were removed, and the dura mater punctured to allow purulent matter to escape.—Donor, Mr. Cowan, Assist- ant-Surgeon, 55th Regiment. Taken from Private D. O’Leary, ict. 24, who was wounded by a portion of shell at the assault on the Redan, September 8th, 1855. From the fact of there not being the slightest general symptoms of compression, cold dressing was applied, and the case minutely watched. September 11th.—Complained of headache and sickness at the stomach. A crucial incision was at once made through the wound; the portion of bone depressed was found to include both tables; that of the external was fractured, while that of the internal was merely depressed. The opening left was about the size of a shilling; the dura mater at once protruded through the aperture and was punctured, when a reddish, semi-purulent matter escaped. The patient after the operation stated that he felt no pain and fell into a deep sleep. 14th.—Ilad a con- vulsive fit, and an excessive action of the muscles of the face and neck. 15th.—Complete paralysis of right side; lie was insensible; there was a true hernia cerebri. 16th.—Died, comatose. Calvaria firmly adherent; dura mater discoloured, and softened round the scat of injury; the whole of left hemisphere presented one mass of blood and disorganized cere- bral matter. The next preparation, from Sergeant Shea, 49th Regiment, shows how a patient may recover so far from a depressed and comminuted fracture of the skull as to be able to go about and to all appearance to be in tolerably good health for fifty-four days after the accident, until suddenly seized with convulsions. It is questionable whether this man would have had a better chance had the trephine been applied, and the depressed bone