WOUNDS OP THE HEAD. 53 brain set in; more especially as tlie wound externally may appear of a very trivial character, as occurred in the following case, No. 2794.—The bones of the face, and a portion of the cranium, with the broken extremity of a cane which had pene- trated into the nostril at the left ala of the nose, and entered the inside of the skull immediately below the left optic nerve, carrying before it the left posterior clinoid process.—Donor, Dr. Anderson, Surgeon, 12th Royal Lancers. “ Trumpeter E. Grainger, 12th Lancers, set. 30; death two days after the acci- dent.* Sectio Cadaveris, sixty-three hours after death.—Cranium. After dividing the falx cerebri, the anterior lobes were raised; and gradually proceeding backwards we had got as far as the division of the optic nerves, when the scalpel struck suddenly on a metallic point or substance directed upwards and backwards, and protruding into the cavity of the skull close to the left side of the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone, and pressing or lying on the left optic nerve, or left side of the optic commissure. The cause of the man’s death was at once made manifest, as the foreign body was evidently the brass point or ferule of a small walking-cane. On probing the nostrils the end of a foreign body could be detected; and before it was removed from the situation it occupied in the skull, it was evident that it was the end of a cane, of which the ferule or brass point presented itself in the inside of the skull, by the side of the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone. The point of it had pierced the left ala of the nose, at the junction of the cartilage with the bone, taking a direction upwards, backwards, and a little inwards. In its course it grazed the inferior and middle turbinate bones, passed through the great cells in the body of the sphenoid, breaking off and carrying before it the posterior clinoid process, and finally impinging upon, but not rupturing the membranes, covering that portion of the anterior lobe of the brain in immediate relation to the optic nerve of the left side. Anatomically speaking, there was nothing to oppose the onward progress of the stick, for in fact it passed up the nostrils; the only resisting part after it entered the skin and cartilage being the body of the sphenoid itself, which in the present * For a full account of this case, with an illustration, see ‘ Dublin Quarterly Journal/ vol. xi, p. 347.