1G GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING The following is a good example of a puffy tumour on the scalp, with inflammation and commencing suppuration, causing symptoms of compression, which were relieved by operation: No. 2901. Fracture of skull.—Private John Evans, set. 25, wounded lGtli April, 1855. 20th April admitted into Castle Hospital, Balaklava. Says he was blown up in a magazine in the trenches, and lay insensible for some time ; received three small lacerated wounds on the left side of the head. Com- plained of headache and slight febrile symptoms for a few days. The wounds had healed up, and he walked about apparently well. May 14th and 15th.—He remained in bed complain- ing of violent pain in the head, was very drowsy and stupid- looking, and with difficulty could be got to speak to any one. lGtli.—Lies in a semi-comatose state, with eyelids half closed, but is sensible when roused, and answers questions in monosyllables. Says the pain is greater and of a tight kind ; right side of the face distorted and angle of the mouth drawn downwards; brows knit; pulse quick and hard; skin hot. On examining his head there appeared a small tumour, with dis- tinct feel of fluctuation in the neighbourhood of one of the wounds; presented all the characteristics of Potts* puffy tumours. On making an incision, the pericranium was found separated by thin sanious discharge from a depressed fracture of the left parietal bone. By means of Hay's saw I was able to remove pieces of depressed bone and elevate others. The fracture was such as would be produced by a ball. The dura mater looked inflamed, and was coated by a lymph-like matter. The head symptoms gradually disappeared, but a fungus rose from the bottom of the wound. 21st.—Fungus was as large as a good-sized walnut, pulsating strongly, and had a red strawberry look; pledgets of lint soaked in Spt. Yini rect. were kept constantly applied, under the use of which it gradually went down. The wound healed, and he was discharged and sent home for duty on the 5th of July.—Donor, Dr. Jephson, K. D. G. Necrosis. When the pericranium is detached from the bone, necrosis of the whole thickness may take place, and an abscess form