OH PERFORATION OF THE LARGER JOINTS. 167 and what remains of the cartilage at any particular part is swollen, pulpy, and vascular. Admitted from India:—Wounds of larger joints, with frac- ture of bones, 10; ditto without fracture, 1. Total, 11. Of these, 9 were invalided, and 2 discharged to duty. 1 occurred in the shoulder-joint, 4 in the elbow, 1 in the carpus, 2 in the knee, and 1 in the ankle. 8 were caused by musket ball, and 1 by a pistol bullet. Except 2, all were healed. In addition to these wounds of the larger joints, there were 3 cases of excision, viz.:—2 of the elbow and 1 of the shoulder- joint, which will be detailed under that head. In the Crimean war 121 cases occurred amongst the men, of whom 25 died without any operative interference, and 10 among the officers, of which 4 were treated without operation; and of this number, 3 terminated unfavorablv.* Shoulder-joint. Only one case is returned under this head as having arrived from India, and the history of the case is detailed under the class Resections, this operation having been performed at Fort Pitt. In several cases inflammation had taken place contiguous to the joint, resulting in thickening and con- traction of the muscular and ligamentous structures, and in some cases the joint had become completely anchylosed, as in Private J. Day, 32nd Regiment, under the head of Amputation of the Arm. * The preparations Nos. 2921 and 2922 show the starred frac- ture and fissures resulting from gunshot injury of the head of the humerus. “ Of 17 gunshot injuries of the shoulder-joint amongst the Crimean wounded, 2 were fatal in the primary hospitals without operation, the cases having apparently been complicated with some injury to the contents of the chest. One patient died in the secondary hospital at Balaklava, of idiopathic fever, con- tracted while under treatment for the wound, while the whole number of the remaining cases, viz., 14, required operative interference.” * Vide ‘ Report on the Crimean Wounded/ vol. ii, p. 350.