94 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP HIE DIAPHRAGM. are two cicatrices in the left side of the chest, one situated be- tween the eighth and ninth ribs, three and a half inches from their cartilages, where the musket ball had entered, and the other, its exit, between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, close to the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The ball, in its course through the thorax, must have wounded the diaphragm, and permitted the hernia of the stomach and colon. (See Plate III.) —Donor, Dr. Williamson, Staff-Surgeon. 31st Regiment.— Private Thomas Fletcher, set. 40, an Irishman, a weaver, five feet six and a half inches; stout and healthy frame. Total service twenty years and five months, of which nineteen years and six months were spent in India, where he had two or three attacks of intermittent fever. He was wounded at Sobraon, February 10th, 1846, by a musket ball in the left side of the thorax, entering between the eighth and ninth ribs, and about four inches from their cartilages, and making its exit close to the transverse process of the eleventh dorsal vertebra, and between the eleventh and twelfth ribs. He landed in England on the 13th of January, 1847, in good general health. Admitted into Fort Pitt General Hospital on the 20th January, under observation for the wound in his side. Discharged well on the 2nd February. On the 11th February, immediately after his dinner, he was attacked with vomiting, and pain in the left side over the spleen; this continued until the evening of the 12tli, when he was admitted into this hospital. He could not account for his sickness; he had been quite well in the morning, and his bowels had been acted on. On admission his skin Mras cold, pulse quick, small, and wiry, 90; respiration natural; pain over the spleen increased on pressure. On the 13th the pain had left the side and shifted to the shoulder and clavicle. It was not acute. He was free from all other pain and all inflammatory symptoms to the hour of his death, neither was there any pain on pressure in the region of the stomach, nor any tension of the belly, but, on the contrary, an extraordinary hollowness, or drawing in about the umbilicus, resembling very much in appearance a man suf- fering from " Asiatic cholera.” His bowels could not be acted on, and the irritability of his stomach and vomiting of all things swallowed continued to the last. He began to sink in