GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING 26 manner it is generally found that the fissure is widest at the base, and becomes narrower laterally as it extends upwards towards the temples, and that it is never seen to reach so high as the vertex, or to the part of the skull on which the blow actually fell. Occasionally, when the blow is very severe, the fracture extends into all the fossae, with great separation of the sutures. The middle fossa is the one most frequently found fractured accompanied with opening out of the sutures; this may be accounted for by the injury being received, in the great majority of instances, upon the vertex of the skull. No. 2803.—Skull exhibiting separation of the lambdoidal suture, from which a fissure extends across the lateral sinus, detaching the mastoid process and part of the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone, traversing the external auditory meatus, and terminating in the squamous portion of the bone.— Donor, Mr. Colclough, Staff Surgeon. William Bing- ham, 9th Lancers, a heavy, corpulent young man, who, in springing on to his unsaddled horse, overbalanced himself, and fell over to the ground on the off side, on the crown of his head. He was taken up in a state of insensibility, with blood flowing from his right ear, which continued for several hours, bringing away with it portions of the brain. lie died on the fourth day after the accident, when it was discovered that rupture of the right lateral sinus had taken place. In cases of fracture across the orbital plate of the frontal bone there is bleeding from the nose, but this is more fre- quently seen to arise from much less serious injuries, and is therefore no sign of fracture. When bleeding from the ears occurs to any great extent, and is conjoined with other symp- toms of a severe injury to the brain, it may be expected that a fracture has taken place through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and probably opened one of the sinuses. A thin, watery fluid is on some rare occasions discharged from the ears; when it does occur it is a pretty certain indication of a fracture of the base of the skull. The discharge from the ear is sometimes so great as to wet the dressings and pillow, and several ounces have occasionally been collected. The source from which the fluid is derived is not as yet correctly ascer- tained, although it is most probable that it is secreted by the