] 18 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF TIIE LOWER EXTREMITIES. Crimea/ p. 3G2. No. 2939 (see Plate VII, fig. 1).—Gunshot fracture in the centre of the right femur; bone much commi- nuted, and the extremities ununited and overlapping. The comminuted pieces are united by new bony deposit, and there are also several portions necrosed. Taken from Peter McDonald, 42nd Highlanders, who was wounded on the Alma by a musket shot, and sent to Scutari, when he was much reduced in strength, and the limb very much swelled and discharging freely. After some time a musket ball was discovered and removed; the swelling reduced, the sinuses closed, and he was enabled to move about with crutches. About a week after, the limb again swelled, irritative fever ensued, and the man died. On exa- mining the limb, another minie ball was found in the cavity between the ends of the bones, chiefly covered by ligamentous and bony matter. When a bone has sustained an injury so as to cause a slight superficial exfoliation, this is generally quickly thrown off, but when necrosis of half the circumference, or even of the whole thickness of the shaft of a long bone, takes place, inflammation and suppuration to a greater or less extent ensue, and new bone is thrown out, which encloses the dead or dying bone. During the time these fragments are being detached, the patients are more exposed to the absorption of pus, and consequently death from pyaemia. The following preparations. Nos. 2934 and 2935, and also that of Private Hunter, from India, are excellent examples of necrosis following these injuries, especially No. 2934, where nearly the whole of the shaft of the bone is dead, and enclosed in a new osseous case. It appears to have been the result of a severe injury to the bone, but without producing a complete fracture. No. 2934 (see Plate VII, fig. 2).—Femur presenting necro- sis of its shaft. The sequestrum comprehends the entire thick- ness and nearly the whole length of the shaft, and is very rough on the surface. It is detached, and surrounded by a thick, uneven shell of new bone, abundantly pierced by cloacee, so as to expose the dead part extensively. From a man ad- mitted with a gunshot wound of two years’ standing; the ball had lodged, but had been cut out a month afterwards. On