159 EltACTURE OE TIIE TIBIA ONLY. Fracture op the Tiria only. Gunshot fractures of the leg are frequently of such a severe character as to require immediate amputation generally in the thigh, especially if produced by round shot or shell. Those caused by musket ball seldom call for the removal of the limb. In the leg, all the detached fragments of broken bone being so near the surface, are easily removed, and irregular portions from both ends of the fractured bone are generally taken away by the saw, if necessary. When one bone only is fractured, the sound one retains the other in its place, and makes the case much less serious. When the tibia is fractured high up, and the knee-joint has been injured, it will be a case for amputation, as it is only on very rare occasions that the limb can be saved. When the fracture takes place near the ankle, and a fissure extends into the joint, it is rarely that the patient recovers. This, however, took place in Patrick Burrowes, 5th Regiment, under partial fracture, p. 137. Under this head eleven were admitted, of whom two were sent to modified duty, and eight invalided. Only one was pro- duced by grape shot, and the remainder by musket ball; three were still unhealed. They were all very severe compound comminuted fractures of this bone, and, with the exception of one, all were followed by necrosis to a greater or less extent; three occurred in the upper third of the bone, and three in the lower, one of which was so close to the ankle-joint that partial anchylosis resulted. One man, of the Royal Artillery, died at Gravesend, but his name is not included in this return, although I take the opportunity of giving the details of the case. The following is a case of extensive necrosis of the tibia:— 64th Regiment.—Private Edwin Beardsall, wounded July 16th, 1857, at Cawnpore, by a grape shot on the right leg about three inches above the ankle-joint. There was only a slight wound of the skin, but there was a comminuted fracture of the tibia; since then several very large pieces of necrosed bone have come away. April, 1858.—There is now a large deep