PERFORATING THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 43 The internal table is generally splintered to a greater extent than the external, and this is said to be caused by its greater hardness and brittleness. But it appears to me to depend, in some measure, upon the direction in which the force is applied; and that splinters are seen most frequently on the inner side of the skull is to be accounted for by the force being, in most cases, applied from without inwards. When the force is applied from within outwards, the external table is found to be much more splintered than the internal; as is seen when a ball has passed completely through the cranium and brain, as in No. 2881, page 44. The surgeon, before commencing an operation after extra- neous bodies within the cranium, ought to weigh well the evils likely to ensue from such a search. When a ball is felt or can be traced without much injury to the patient, every endeavour should be made for its extraction; but when the course or actual site of the ball or other body is unknown, no surgeon ought to make any great search, on account of the probable difficulties in finding the foreign body, and also from the known fact of many patients having survived with the balls and other foreign bodies between the cranium and dura mater, and even within the brain itself, without producing fatal results. None were admitted under this head from India. Unfortunately, men’s heads are not what they used to be, or modern missiles are more deadly, for recent wars furnish not one exception to the fatal consequences of this species of wounds. Of ninety-one cases of penetrating and perforating gun- shot wounds of the head, admitted into hospital in the Crimea between the 1st of April, 1855, and the end of the war, all, without exception, proved fatal. The details of these cases, had they been given, would, however, have been instructive, as showing that what are called symptoms of compression occur equally when a portion of cranium and brain is shot away, and the cerebral substance left without cover and support. Mr. Ilcnnen notes the case of a soldier who had nearly half of the roof of the skull blown off’ by the bursting of a shell, and who had no untoward symptoms till the tenth day, when the brain got into a fungous state, and protruded to a great extent,