17G GUNSHOT INJURY OF THE LARGER ARTERIES. first, but the bleeding soon ceased; the wound was not painful, and he thinks he observed the leg and foot to be colder than the rest of his body for the first two or three days, but did not much attend to it, further than conceiving the numbness, cold- ness, and impeded power of motion as natural'to the wound. “ On the 18th April the gentleman in charge of this patient pointed him out to me as an extraordinary case of gangrene, coming on without, as he supposed, any sufficient cause. The wound on the outside of the thigh, or the exit of the ball, was nearly healed, and that on the inside was without inflammation or tumefaction, aud with merely a little hardness to be felt on pressing. The pulsation of the artery could be distinctly felt to the edge of the wound; the leg was warm; the gangrene con- fined to the toes; the artery of the other thigh could be dis- tinctly traced down to the tendon of the triceps. As he was at a small hospital about two miles from town, I did not see him again until the 20th, and afterwards on the 23rd, when, although the gangrenous portion included all the toes, it had the appear- ance of having ceased. Satisfied that it would again extend, I left directions with the assistant-surgeon that the limb should be amputated below the knee. “ The surgeon, whom I had not seen, and who did not un- derstand the subject, disobeyed the order, conceiving there must be some mistake. On visiting the hospital a little after daylight on the 25th, I was greatly annoyed at finding the operation had not been done, and that the mortification had begun to spread the evening before. It was then too late; on the 26th it was above the ankle, with considerable swelling up to the knee; at night the man died, and the next morning, at six o’clock, I removed the femoral artery from Poupart’s'liga- ment to its passage through the triceps, which part was affected by the mortification. “ The ball had passed between the artery and vein in the spot where the vein is situated nearly behind, and adherent only bv cellular membrane, through which the ball made its passage; the coats of the vein being little injured, and those of the artery not destroyed in substance, although bruised; it was at this spot much contracted in size, and filled above and below by coagula, which prevented the transmission of blood, and the vein above