105 PENETRATING OR PERFORATING. the effused matter, and the patient placed on the injured side, with the wound in a dependent position. W hen a portion of intestine or omentum protrudes, it might be returned before gangrene has set in, and this is greatly facilitated by relaxing the abdominal muscles; should it be found impossible to effect reduction, in consequence of constric- tion of the neck of the wound, it may be enlarged by a probe- pointed bistoury, in a perpendicular direction. The gut must be simply replaced, and allowed to remain close to the wound, to which it will become adherent, and in the event of sloughing taking place, it will facilitate the escape of its contents. When the intestine has become gangrenous, an incision should be made into it, so as to effect the formation of an artificial anus. When the omentum is gangrenous, it must be excised. When the protruding intestine is also wounded, it has be- come a question as to the propriety of stitching up the wound in the gut, or returning the wrounded intestine, taking care, how- ever, that the two apertures correspond as far as possible. It is now the practice to stitch up the wounded and protruding in- testine by the “ glover's stitch," by means of a fine round needle, armed with sewing silk, and the peritoneal surfaces on either side of the wound are alone brought into contact, as adhesion takes place solely between them. The thread should only be inserted through the peritoneal and cellular coats, and not through the muscular, lest retraction of the included muscular fibres, by dragging upon the stitches, might reopen the wound. The ends of the thread should be cut close to the knot, and the suture will eventually become covered with lymph, and find its way into the inside of the gut, by ulcerating through the mucous coat. It has been proposed to leave the end of the thread hanging out of the abdominal aperture, but this is more likely to induce peritoneal inflammation. The wound in the intestine having been sewn up, should be reduced and kept close to the external wound, so that, should the stitches give way and extravasation take place, it may be allowed to escape readily. The position of the patient must be carefully attended to, so as to relax the abdominal muscles, and the administration of opium, to keep the bowels quiet. Food should not be allowed for the first three days, but