200 AMPUTATION OF THE In some cases it is better to form a large flap on the fore part of the thigh, and a small one behind, but everything depends upon the condition in which the soft parts and bone are left after a gunshot or shell wound. Sixteen different methods at least have been recommended, and any good anatomist and operator may disarticulate the head of the femur, and form his flaps either by the anterior and pos- terior, and by transfixion ; or by making the flaps, by cutting from without inwards; the circular method has also been adopted by some, still, the flap is the operation generally preferred. The patient having been placed on a strong table, and his breech brought close to its margin, and assistants properly placed—one behind the surgeon, to raise the flap and compress the artery, another opposite, to hold the pelvis steady, and a third, to hold the limb, &c.; but all this depends upon the sur- geon’s prior arrangements and means at his disposal. The limb may be removed by a dexterous surgeon in from fifteen to twenty seconds. The point of a long catalin should be inserted midway between the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium and tro- chanter major, and run across the fore part of the neck of the bone, and bring it out on the opposite side, about two or three inches from the anus. The surgeon should then carry it downwards and forwards, so as to cut a flap from the anterior part of the thigh, about four or five inches in length. During this part of the operation the limb should be raised, so as to relax the muscles and facilitate the passage of the knife. The assist- ant who stands behind the operator slips the whole of the palm of his hand into the wound, behind the knife, so as to grasp the whole flap, including the femoral artery; this may be done by either hand, but the right is generally to be preferred. The flaps being raised, the point of the knife should be laid against the head of the bone, and the anterior part of the capsular liga- ment divided. Should the femur be unfractured, the assistant who holds it should forcibly depress it, so as to make the head of the bone start from the socket; but this very rarely occurs in military practice, as in these cases the femur is usually frac- tured close to the trochanter. The knife is then brought behind the head of the femur, and carried downwards and backwards.