AMPUTATION OP THE 208 of testing great surgical questions, if they were on all occa- sions to rest satisfied with either their own preconceived opinions or the diction of others.” To avoid copying Mr. Fergusson’s remarks at length, I shall only refer to them at page 500 of Ins work. Mr. Syme’s observations on this operation, published in the ‘ London and Edinburgh Journal of Medical Science ’ for May, 1845, are worthy of the attention of the profes- sion, as all his remarks are. Mr. Fergusson’s concluding remarks are these—“ There are many instances of incurable disease of the knee-joint where the serious mischief is limited to little more than the articular surfaces; in such cases, how- ever great the surrounding swelling may be, as also in all examples where the whole of the leg must be sacrificed either for injury or disease, Mr. Syme proposes to substitute this operation for the proceedings hitherto performed higher up; and in several eases of the kind which he has published, and many occurring in my own practice, the results have been so satisfactory that I am disposed to consider the operation well worth the attention of the profession; I should also say both in civil and military practice. Amputation of the Leg. This operation may be performed in any part of its ex- tent, but it is usual in hospital practice to amputate in the upper third, so that patients in this walk of life may have a cheaper and perhaps a more serviceable wooden leg, where the body can be supported on the knee in a bent position; while in patients in better circumstances, and with any other substitute resembling an artificial leg and foot, it is occasionally preferable to amputate at the lower instead of the middle or upper thirds of the leg. When the knee has to be kept bent, a long stump projecting behind is very inconvenient and apt to be injured. In cases where it is wished to keep the knee straight, and an artificial foot applied, a light and efficient apparatus, at a low price, can be obtained at any of the instrument makers. It is at the picsent time the general practice to amputate at