223 SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. patient was feverish, with hot and dry skin, quick pulse, flushed face, and great thirst. He went on favorably till the 27th, when he had an attack of what is described as intermittent fever. On the 30th he was improving in health, the wound contracting and granulating. Discharge profuse, but healthy. On the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd May he was slightly delirious, and so restless that the limb was constantly disturbed. On the 4-th severe dyspnoea came on. The wound still continued to contract, and the discharge was healthy. On the 8th he had a slight attack of shivering. All the ligatures came away. Continued to gain strength up to the 17th. His appetite was enormous; bilious vomiting came on, owing, as was supposed, to the mixture of some incompatible articles of extra diet. On the 19th he passed a restless night. The vomiting stopped, but there was a good deal of nausea. Had a severe attack of dyspnoea, with short cough, and symptoms of congested lungs, especially of the left. Tongue furred ; disharge from the wound less. The cough and dyspnoea more severe, and the heart’s action very rapid. These symptoms continued to increase, especially those of pericardial effusion, and he died on May 21st. Sectio Cadaveris, thirty- three hours after death.—Pericardium contained two pints of turbid serum, and was coated with a thick layer of recent effused lymph of a granular appearance, with several patches of vascu- larity. Valves healthy; both lungs congested; liver healthy. An abscess was found in the external margin of the spleen. Left Kidney.—There was an abscess, about the size of a walnut, on its Tipper and inner surface, immediately below the capsule. There was also a similar abscess in the right kidney. Stomach and intestines healthy ; veins not examined. In the case of Major M., recorded under the head of “ Frac- ture of the Humerus,” resection may also ultimately be required. Excision of the Elrow-joint. It is generally the plan in the present day, where there is the slightest chance of saving any portion of the superior extremity, never to perform amputation; and this is more especially the