GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. / / and when the wound is of considerable size and has been left open. The protruded portion should he returned and covered by the integuments, sutures inserted, and a pad and bandage applied if necessary. W hen death takes place shortly after the receipt of the wound, the portion of lung immediately in close contact to the tract of the ball will be inflamed and consolidated. When, after the lapse of several years, at the entrance and exit of the ball, there will, in all probability, be pleuritic adhesions, with depressed and adherent cicatrices, and along the course of the ball there will be a firm, consolidated fibrinous substance, distinctly marking the course of the ball, or a narrow, thin line may be the only evidence to show that the lung was wounded. A ball in passing through the substance of the lung destroys the life of the part, which suppurates, and either gradually heals, leaving a depressed cicatrix, usually, although not always, at- tached to the walls of the chest. During life, in many cases, it interferes so little with the respiratory murmur as not to be noticed by auscultation, as was very clearly observed in several of the cases from India. On other occasions the wound docs not heal, nor the track of the ball close up, but remains open and fistulous, and becomes lined by a distinct membrane, as can be seen in preparation No. 3638. (See Plate II, fig. 1.) The two cases from India which terminated fatally, viz., Doyle and Knox, particularly that of Doyle, is interesting, as furnishing an admirable illustration of a perforating gunshot -wound through the lung, the track of the ball still remaining open and fistulous, and being lined by a distinct, firm, false membrane, having numerous bronchial tubes of moderate size entering it; it also shows gangrene taking place in the healthy lung, and the wounded one remaining almost perfectly free from disease. It is stated in the Report on the Wounded from the Crimea, vol. ii, p. 321 :—“ Occasionally small circumscribed collections of pus took place in the track of the ball, surrounded and cut off from the remainder of the lung by consolidated pulmonary tissue, but in no case did the wounds of the organs remain a fistulous passage.” It is a point well worthy of remark, that although, from the