10G GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP THE ABDOMEN onlv tea and barley-water, and afterwards beef-tea and light food that leaves little residue, may be administered. No pur- gatives should be given, and the urine should be drawn oft. In all wounds of the abdomen the great danger to be appre- hended is from diffused peritonitis, caused by the extravasation of faeces or blood, in which case there is great tenderness over the abdomen, especially around the wound, accompanied with vomiting and tympanitis; small, wiry pulse, fever, &c. When the patient is stout and plethoric, leeches should be applied to the abdomen, and calomel and opium administered, and strict abstinence enjoined. Wounds of the liver, although of a very formidable character, are not necessarily fatal, death being caused by inflammation of the substances of the liver, or by peritonitis. Portions of pro- truded liver have been excised, and the patient recovered. (Vide case by Dr. Macpherson, Assistant-Surgeon, 9th Lancers, 1 London Medical Gazette ’ for 1816.) Wounds of the stomach are generally fatal; when the sto- mach is empty there is less chance of peritonitis being excited by the effusion of its contents into the abdominal cavity. The cut edge of a wound in the stomach is to be treated in the same manner as in the intestines. In gunshot wounds of the sto- mach, the edges will not unite for several days, so that the patient must be placed that the contents may escape externally. Should the patient survive the inflammatory stage he should be supported by clysters of beef-tea, &c. Wounds in the stomach sometimes become fistulous, as in the well-known case related by Dr. Beaumont, of the American army, who, in 1822, received an extensive wound in the stomach, admitting of most interesting inquiries being made into the pro- cess of digestion. Wounds and injuries of the spleen are usually fatal, either from haemorrhage or inflammation. The spleen is sometimes ruptured from falls, or from cannon shot. Wounds of the kidney are also generally fatal, although there are cases on record of the patients having lived for some time after such injuries. Two were admitted from India, and both were invalided.