85 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Sectio Cadaveris, twenty hours after death.—External appear- ances. Body stout and well formed; rigor mortis not passed away; muscles generally firm, and of the usual healthy appear- ance. There is a cicatrix on the right side of the chest, four inches below and to the outer side of the right nipple, and there is a small depressed aperture on the posterior part of the right side of the chest, about two inches from the spinous processes of the vertebra, the integument around which is of a livid colour. Cranium.— About one ounce of fluid at the base of the brain ; slight subarachnoid effusion; the veins of pia mater congested; structure was otherwise healthy ; weight 3 lbs. 5 oz. Thorax.—The usual amount of serum in the pericardium; a fibrinous coagulum, not softened, in the right ventricle; the left side of the heart empty; structure of heart healthy; weight 12 oz. The right lung adhered firmly and universally to the walls of the chest by adhesions of old standing, more loosely along the anterior margin of the lung than posteriorly; struc- ture of this lung perfectly healthy; crepitant, except a small portion of the inferior lobe close to the track of the ball, which will be more fully described afterwards. The left bronchus having been tied, on introducing the nozzle of a pair of bellows into the trachea, the right lung was found to expand perfectly, and air to rush out externally at the posterior aperture, or that of exit of the ball, showing that there was a free communication betwreen the trachea and the wound in the chest. The aperture of entrance of the ball was marked by a cicatrix four inches below and to the outer side of the right nipple, where it entered the thorax, between the sixth and seventh ribs, and seems to have passed backwards, and made its exit between the tenth and eleventh ribs, and where the ball, as stated in the report, was cut down upon and removed soon after being wounded. On introducing a probe through the posterior or the exit aper- ture, it was found to proceed for one inch in the muscular sub- stance external to the thorax, and then to enter the pleura, and to wround the lung superficially. From this a sinus extends for three inches forwards in the substance of the lung to the en- trance aperture, now closed. This sinus is larger than a com- mon quill, and is lined by a distinct membrane Avitli bronchial tubes opening into it. The lung seems to have recovered from