32 GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING and consolidation of tlie injured parts, so as to effectually close in and protect the brain. This process is well exemplified in some of the cases of gunshot wounds that have arrived from India. Besides these cases, Dr. Smith, Assistant-Surgeon, 9th Lan- cers, who served with the army at the siege of Delhi, informed me that Captain R—, of the Carbineers, and Captain E—, of the GOtli Rifles, both now in England, are instances of the reparative process just mentioned. The dura mater was more or less exposed, and the pulsation of the brain visible in both these officers, but in neither, for some months past, has the pulsation been observable, on account of the effusion of fibrous matter and gradual contraction and consolidation of the per- forated parts. In several instances perfectly loose and displaced pieces of bone appear to have been removed, but in none of the cases is there any evidence or even suspicion of trephining having been performed. After removing any loose or detached portions of bone, the expectant prophylactic treatment seems to be the one usually followed in the present day, and considered to be the most suc- cessful. Nos. 2884, page 34; 2885 and 2886, page 35; 2894, page 37, are good examples of this kind of fracture, showing the appear- ance of parts some considerable time after the receipt of the wound, as also those cases from India of recovery from this injury without the use of the trephine. 93rd Regiment.—Private Jas. Campbell, set. 19.—Wounded at Lucknow, lGtli November, 1857, by a musket ball, which struck him in the centre of the forehead close to the root of the hair, and caused a compound comminuted fracture of the frontal bone; several pieces of bone have come aivay. July 10th, 1858. The wound is now healed; there is a depression at the seat of injury about the size of a cherry, where all the tables of the skull appear to be removed, although the pulsation of the brain cannot be felt, and he complains of severe pain in the head The man states that the ball is still in the head, and that the medical officeis in India inserted the probe for several inches along the inner surface of the bone, and found the ball, but could not extract it. Invalided 9th August, 1858.