COMPOUND ERACTURE OP PEMUE. 143 Private Edward Collins, wounded at Delhi, June 8th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered the upper and outer side of the right thigh, and lodged, fracturing the femur; ball extracted; a piece of bone came away. July 20th.—Wound healed; right leg about two and a half inches shorter than left; femur bent; fractured ends of bone overlap, and there is abundant deposition of new bone; the long splint was used. Has a good useful limb, and can walk a long distance. September 6th, 1858.— Sent to modified duty. October 6th.—Invalided by an order from the Horse Guards. In the next case the fracture is between the middle and lower thirds of the femur; limb shortened one and a half inches. 53rd Regiment.—Private James Burke, wounded at Lucknow, November 16th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered the front of the left thigh, about the junction of the lower with the middle third, fracturing the femur, and passing inwards and backwards; it was cut out two days after in the inner side of the thigh; no piece of bone came away. Was sent back to Cawnpore in a dooley, and his leg retained in the long splint; went from Cawnpore, in a hackrey, to Allahabad, on the 2nd December, and arrived there on the 10th, and shortly after the limb was put on a double-inclined plane, and finally upon the long splint; was unable to bear his weight on the limb until April, 1858. August 16th.—Wounds healed; the fracture is united, but the ends overlap on the outer side, and the left leg is about one and a half inches shorter than the right; he can bend the knee-joint, and has a very useful limb, being able to walk tolerably well. September 6th. — Sent to modified duty. The following fatal case shows that it is often impossible to find out by what description of missile the wound is produced, as the document stated that the fracture was caused by a por- tion of shell, and a ball is seen to be lodged between the united ends of the bones. It also appears that there were two aper- tures, one of entrance, and one of exit; so that he must have been wounded by two projectiles,—one, the ball, lodged; and the other, probably a portion of shell, perforated the limb. The preparation also shows the state of the parts twelve months after the injury. In such a case as this, excision at the hip