123 CONTUSION AND PARTIAL FRACTURE. perfectly firm and rigid, and in a semi-bent position, and the fingers powerless from want of use. The mode adopted for these contractions was simple, and consisted in forcible extension, the patient at the time being generally under the influence of chloroform; strong, straight splints of different sizes were used; they were well padded, and covered with linen firmly sewed down. Before applying the splint, the arm was bandaged with a flannel roller, and the splints, as stated, were strong and of a good breadth, and also of such length as to extend beyond the bones included in the contraction. For instance, when the elbow-joint is contracted, the splint should extend from the fingers beyond the shoulder so as to afford plenty of leverage and purchase, as a very con- siderable degree of force has to be used. These splints were used almost daily on different patients, and with great success. The number of cases in which perfect cures were effected was great, and in others the condition of the limb was much improved. In none was there any serious injury or bad effect resulting from this process. Occasionally a considerable amount of inflammation and swelling follows, with vesication of the integuments; this always subsides under cold applications, and if the limb should again become contracted, the splint should be reapplied as soon as possible. In some cases a single ap- plication of the splint sufficed to straighten the contracted part, but more frequently the splint had to be applied several times, at intervals of a day or two. Sometimes the pain is so great that the patient cannot bear the application of the splint for more than a few hours. He ought, however, to be induced to keep it on as long as possible. Severe cases are often produced by round shot, causing laceration and destruction of soft parts; these wounds are also frequently followed by sloughing, whether resulting from musket, shell, or any other missile. With Contusion and partial Fracture of Long Bones, INCLUDING PARTIAL FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE AND Scapula. In some cases the ball enters through the fold of the axilla, and passes directly through the scapula. In others the ball