31 CONTUSION Oil FRACTURE OP THE CRANIUM. when the depression has been great, and the reverse has also been observed, viz., slight depression, but with decided symptoms of compression. Fracture of the cranium may cause compression of the brain, either from the depressed portion of bone pressing upon the brain, extravasation of blood, or the formation of pus. Symptoms of compression show themselves at once when they are caused bv a depressed portion of bone, when, from extravasation of blood, they do not appear until some time after; and when they arise from the formation of matter, the patient presents symptoms of inflammation of the membranes or substance of the brain for some time previous. In cases of compression caused by displacement, the question is whether the trephine ought to be used in all cases of depressed fractures, or in any. The older surgeons invariably had recourse to operative measures; now they are very seldom deemed neces- sary. The depressed portion of bone is elevated with two objects—to take away the cause of compression, or to remove a likelv exciting cause of inflammation of the membrane and substance of the brain. Eleven cases of this description of fracture arrived from India, and are good examples of fracture of the cranium, and displace- ment of both tables, with exposure and probable injury to the dura mater. In all of them there was a depressed and generally an adherent cicatrix, which plainly showed that there had been extensive injury and loss of bone, but in none of the cases, on their examination at Fort Pitt, about twelve months after the receipt of the wound, could the pulsation of the brain be felt, the parts having had time to contract and become consolidated by the effusion of a strong fibrous substance. The size and extent of the depression in the bone, or certain sensorial symptoms remaining, were sufficient evidence that the contents of the cranium had been exposed. It is well known that the bones of the cranium have very little power of repair- ing injuries inflicted in their continuity by throwing out new osseous matter, but it does not appear to have been noticed or insisted on, that nature seems to make up for this by the gradual contraction and filling up of the loss of substance, by the deposition of fibrous matter and the gradual contraction