sot AMPUTATION OP THE Fifteen have been admitted, 14 invalided, and 1 died; wards, so as to form a flap about four inches in length; then the knife should a second time be introduced in front, and car- ried downwards and backwards, making a flap similar to the first; both of them should then be drawn upwards by the hands of the assistant with considerable force, and then an incision should be made round the bone, about an inch higher than the place of transfixion; the saw should then be placed over this portion of the bone and the separation completed. When making the first entrance of the knife by transfixing, the point should be thrust down perpendicularly to the bone, with which it should be kept in close contact as it is carried round to the opposite surface. The first flap should not be firmly elevated by itself, as the knife is thereby prevented passing readily round the bone, to form the second flap; but when both are formed, they ought to be forcibly held up so as to allow of the free application of the saw without rubbing against the soft parts. Circular operation.—This may be performed on any part of the thigh, and I have seen as good stumps (after eight or ten months, and even years), after this method, as from the flap operation. Several of the cases from India were good examples of the circular method. The femoral artery is commanded either by the thumbs of an assistant or by the tourniquet, and it is of no consequence in the flap operation, when the surgeon has confidence in himself and his assistants, whether the inner or outer flap is made first; he could in any ease grasp the limb, and thus arrest the bleeding by one hand, and with the other he could seize the vessels by the forceps. After any of these operations, the first thing to attend to is the femoral artery; when the transfixion is from the outside, sometimes the artery is split for an inch in length. In such a case it should be cautiously separated from the vein and drawn out of its sheath before the ligature is applied; but usually it is not difficult to discover. In some cases two or three vessels will require to be tied, in others ten or twelve. Venous haemorrhage sometimes takes place, but usually stops when the pressure in the groin is taken off, and almost always when the flaps are placed together.