FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. 68 5tli, 1857, iu Oude, with General Havelock’s force, by a piece of shell which struck him on the right side of the head, pro- ducing total loss of vision of right eye. The eyeball is collapsed, but the lids remain; the left appears as if threatened with amaurosis from nervous influence, owing to the injury of the right eye; during the slightest exercise or exposure to the sun, he suffers from giddiness and dimness of vision, which compels him to remain quiet. Remains undisposed of. 90th Regiment.—Thomas Gallagher, wounded at Lucknow, November 16th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered in front of the right ear, and passed out under the eye of the same side, close to the nose. One piece of bone came away from the entrance of the ball. July 13th.—Wound healed; cannot open his mouth to any extent, and has lost the sight of the right eye; the pupil of left is very much dilated, and the eye has an amaurotic appearance, but the ball of the eye is un- injured. 60th Regiment.—Corporal John Jackson, wounded at Delhi, August 2nd, 1857, by a musket ball in right eye, which took an unascertained course; there was not much loss of blood, and ho was for about five weeks in nearly an unconscious state. July 20th.—Has lost the use of right eye, the humours having escaped; lids not much injured; has occasional headache, and has lost the sense of smell; is otherwise in good health. Was supplied with a glass eye. 21st, 1858.—Duty. IY. Fracture or the Lower Jaw. It is worthy of remark, the frequency of ununited fracture of the lower jaw in cases of gunshot injury. In fracture of the lower jaw the mouth is to be closed, so that the upper jaw may act as a splint, and a proper bandage applied, and the patient supported on fluid food. The teeth are sometimes driven into the soft parts, or cause severe wounds of the cheek. The de- formity resulting from gunshot wounds of the jaw should be handed over to the dentist, for the application of his skill and art. There are several casts of cases in the Museum at Netly which were very much benefited by the assistance of dental