150 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF TI1E LOWER EXTREMITIES. lie was at once placed in a dooley, and the limb shortly after put up in a long splint; was twice moved to different houses which were set apart as hospitals at Delhi, and at the expiration of three months lie was sent to Umballa in a dooley, a distance of eleven days' march, without any splint, the bone still ununited; and, according to the patient's statement, the splint never was replaced. The upper fragment of the femur projected in front, and protruded through the integuments, and a portion came away by necrosis; extensive abscesses formed, and the limb was left perfectly free of any apparatus, as the patient was in such a Avcak and exhausted condition that it was not expected he would survive; and it was thought that he was not capable of bearing amputation of the limb. He states, that while at Umballa the fracture united, and after being there two months he was sent to the Hill Station at Landaur, in a dooley. Fort Pitt, 27tli April, 1859.—The outer fragment projects outwards and forwards, and is covered by integuments; the limb is 4-4 inches shorter than the opposite one; the toes are pointed downwards, aud the limb wasted. There is an open sinus at the seat of the fracture, which extends deep below the fragments, although bare bone cannot be felt. The knee-joint is stiff, and ligamentous structure rigid from want of use, but the leg is in a straight position. 20th May.—The sinus has healed, and the patient can bear his weight upon the limb. He has been fitted writh a high-heeled boot with a long thigh- piece, &c., attached, by means of which apparatus he is able to walk tolerably well, with the assistance of a stick. Invalided May, 1859. 53rd Regiment.—Private Samuel Shaw, mt. 36, was wounded February 3rd, 1858, near Lucknow, by a musket ball, which entered the outer side of left thigh, about 4 inches above the knee, fractured the femur, made its exit on the inner side, and then entered the opposite thigh, whence it was removed by in- cision from near the patella. May, 1859.—Left thigh 1^ inch shorter than the opposite, and much atrophied, with two cica- trices adherent to the bone; the wound has only very lately healed, and the knee is stiff; he has a very useful limb, and is able to walk well with a high-heeled shoe. Invalided 13th June, 1859.