126 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. the inferior lobe of the left lung, and the surrounding substance was somewhat condensed. Abdomen. The liver was much enlarged, and of a dark colour, the structure being otherwise healthy; the gall-bladder was filled with a thin watery bile. The spleen was also greatly enlarged, the structure being soft and easily broken up. The kidneys were very much enlarged, and presented the appearance of granular degeneration in the second stage, some of the tubular portions having disappeared. The stomach and intestines were slightly congested, and of a dark slate colour from a carbonaceous deposit. Of the 3 cases of partial fracture of the ulna, 2 have been sent to duty, and 1 to modified duty; 2 were in the shaft of the bone, 1 by a piece of shell, close to the elbow-joint, resulting in anchylosis. 61st Regiment.—Edwin Carter, rnt. 37, wounded at Delhi, September 15th, 1857, by a piece of shell, which struck the inner side of the right elbow-joint, a little below the olecranon, injuring the bone in the vicinity of the joint, without pro- ducing rupture of the skin; considerable pain and swelling of the joint ensued, which were relieved by incisions, giving exit to a large quantity of pus. One large piece of bone came away. The wound did not heal for five months. September 5th. — Wound healed; forearm in a semi-bent position, and elbow-joint completely anchylosed. October, 1858.—Modified duty. One case of partial fracture of the radius was sent to duty. Simple Fracture of the Long Bones by Contusion from Round Shot May occur in any of the bones of the superior extremity, and may be the cause of abscesses, necrosis, &c., in the parts injured. Three were admitted; one sent to duty, and two invalided ; one was a case of simple fracture of the ulna, with contusion of the wrist, followed by abscesses in the hand; the other was a case of fracture of the clavicle, still ununited, with loss of pulsation and diminished temperature in the injured arm.