* 78 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF TI1E CHEST. position of the apertures of entrance and exit of the old lound hall, it often appears as if it must have gone through the centi e of the lung, still it will he found that the lung is only wounded superficially, or not through the thickest part, as is seen in the case of Doyle. This seems to he produced by the direction of the hall being deflected by striking the ribs, and then making its exit directly opposite. If a knife or piece of wire were put from one aperture to another, it would, in this case, pass directly through the thickest part of the lung. Preparations Nos. 3G37, 3038, 3039, page 80, are from Private Owen Doyle. Frequently very severe wounds are inflicted on the upper and hack part of the chest without any injury to the contents, producing great laceration of the muscles, with splintered fracture of the scapula, followed by sloughing, with tedious, deep-seated suppuration and hectic, occasionally terminating fatally, and leading to secondary affections of the lungs. The diagnosis of wounds of the lung in gunshot injuries is frequently very difficult, and none of the ordinary signs singly can he exclusively relied on, but taken collectively, we can, in most cases, come to a correct diagnosis. The symptoms indi- cating a wound of the lung are haemoptysis, dyspnoea; the passage of air by the wound or tromatapnoea, emplfysema, pneumonia, and pleuritis; also the supposed course or direction of the ball can, in many cases, assist us in coming to a conclu- sion as to whether the lung is really wounded or not. When the lung is injured, florid blood oozes from the external wound, and frothy, arterial blood is expectorated or brought up by coughing; the pulse is weak and fluttering, nostrils distended, and eyes staring, and extremities cold. Treatment.—In wounds of the lung the first dangerous effects are exhaustion from haemorrhage, or suffocation from blood being poured into the air-cells or cavity of the chest. The secondary affections to be dreaded are violent inflammation of the pleura or lungs, or both combined, with long, tedious suppuration, caus- ing cough, emaciation, and hectic, which frequently leads to a fatal termination. When the contents of the chest have sustained a lesion bv contusion from round shot, which has fractured the ribs, but without penetrating or causing any external wound, the case