118 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OE THE PERINEUM Four very interesting cases have been admitted from India. In two very similar cases the ball passed through the left tes- ticle, injuring the urethra, so that the patients passed urine for some time through the wounds in the urethra (as was stated in the case-book of Assistant-Surgeon Smith, 9th Lancers, who had medical charge of the men on the passage home) ; the fistu- lous opening in the canal closed entirely, and the natural passage remained undiminished in size, allowing of a full- sized catheter to pass with ease into the bladder; one lost both testicles ■ two of them were sent to duty, and two inva- lided. The fourth case was from a spent round shot, which struck the man over the pubis without injuring the integu- ments, producing incontinence of urine. 1st Battalion, 60th.—Private Peter Forbes, set. 32. Wounded at Delhi, June 18th, 1857, by a musket ball, which struck the left testicle, passed through the pubis and bladder, and made its exit posteriorly in the centre of the right hip. The left testicle was so much injured that it was removed the same day. He passed his urine for one month entirely through the wound. April 10th, 1858.—A large bougie was passed with perfect ease. 20th.—The sinus does not now appear to communicate with the urethra. May 1st.—Removed to-day a small piece of bone from the depth of the length of the forceps, in the pelvis. There is no communi- cation between the sinus and the urinary passages. 10th.— Another small piece of bone taken away from the same depth as the former piece. 13th.—The wound remains in the same state; a piece of bone can be felt by the probe, very deep, and apparently loose, but cannot be reached by the forceps. June 4th.—Succeeded in reaching and removing two pieces of bone, evidently from the internal surface of the ischium. 11th. There has been less discharge, and he is quite free from pain, and can walk about. July 21st.—Wound quite healed. Modified duty. 75th Regiment.—Private S. Young, wounded at Delhi, Sep- tember 14th, 1857, by a musket ball, which struck the left side of the penis, injuring the urethra and left testicle; then entered the inner side of the left thigh, and made its exit through the centre of the hip posteriorly. The left testicle came away shortly after, and he passed his urine through the wound in the side of