GUNSHOT INJURY OP THE LARGER ARTERIES. 177 and below the wound was filled with coagulum, and was also impassable.” This preparation is unique. It is perhaps the only one in existence proving the elasticity which vessels possess, and their capability of avoiding to a certain extent an injury about to be inflicted on them. Ligature of Arteries. Three cases requiring ligature of arteries occurred : one Was deligation of the radial artery, eleven days after a gunshot fracture of the ulna, implicating this artery; another was for secondary haemorrhage, one month after a gunshot wound of the leg, with partial fracture of the tibia; the ligature was placed upon the lower third of the posterior tibial. In the third case the femoral arterv was tied. 53rd Regiment.—Private Patrick Hanafin, wounded at Luck- now, November 16th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered on the inner side of the left tibia, about three inches above the ankle-joint, and passed through the fibula, three inches from its lower extremity; about one month after, secondary hae- morrhage took place, following sloughing of the wound, requiring ligature of the posterior tibial at the lower third of the leg. He was also wounded in the right thigh by a musket ball, which entered on the outside near its centre, and passed through in front of the femur, on the inner side, close to the course of the femoral artery. Both wounds are healed. Private John Skinner, 6th I). G., set. 24.—Was wounded 24th November, 1858, at Dundekereraih, by a musket ball, which passed through the left popliteal space, apparently injuring the tendons of both hamstring and wounding the artery. The femoral artery was tied at scarpa’s triangle on the same day, apparently on account of hsemorrhage. Knee now contracted nearly to a right angle, and any attempt to straighten it gave great pain, extending down the leg to the foot. The foot is cold and numb, and the whole limb is wasted. Invalided on account of impaired use of left leg by result of perforating gunshot wound of ham, with direct injury of the popliteal artery. 12