AMPUTATION OP THE 206 following is a description of the stump of the femur :—Prepara- tion No. 3625. Right femur showing necrosis of the internal layer of the shaft of the hone, the result of amputation, at the middle third, after a gunshot injury. The preparation exhibits the extremity of the stump, where the saw -was applied, in a necrosed state; and it shows the smooth surface left by the saw as plainly as when recently done. This portion consists of the entire thickness of the bone; and there is also a mark on its side where the saw had been accidentally applied, and apparently destroyed the periosteum. A thin lamina of necrosed bone extends upwards, to within an inch of the trochanter major lying encased in the old and new shaft. The shaft of the bone has become expanded and opened out in texture, and covered with large irregular nodules of new bone. There are three cloacae on the anterior surface of the femur, and one three inches in length posteriorly at the linca aspera, through which the necrosed portions can be seen. The extremity of the stump presents a large aperture one inch in diameter, leading into the medullary canal; and through it the necrosed portions can be drawn out. The disease seems to have commenced by inflam- mation in the medullary membrane, producing necrosis of a thin layer of the shaft. The old shaft still remains, and is covered with new bone, except at the very extremity, where the saw was applied; and it is probable that the scratch made with the saw was the primary cause of the death of the bone, and also of the inflammation of the medullary membrane. The following is an interesting case in several points of view. It shows a wound of the knee-joint, followed by complete dis- organization of its structure, demanding amputation three months after the injury. The stump had nearly healed, when he was attacked with acute ostitis; and he died from exhaustion forty-four days after the limb was amputated. No. 2910. Femur showing the results of periostitis following amputation at the lower third of the thigh. Nearly ten inches of the shaft of the bone is either necrosed or in a dying state, and is partially encased in a new bony shell. It also shows that the periosteum has a large share in the generation of new bone.—Donor, Dr. "Williams, Assistant-Surgeon, Rifle Brigade. This specimen was taken from Private John Walsend, ret. 29. Wounded