xvn INTRODUCTION. taught in it. The treatment of tropical diseases, and of diseases peculiar to soldiers, cannot be acquired in the civil schools. The position of the army medical officer, too, differed from that of his brother in civil life, especially in this, that the attention of the latter was, for the most part, taken up in curing disease, while he had very little opportunity of preventing it. Indeed, it seems almost against his interests to prevent disease. It was only the sick person who sent for the doctor, not the man that was well; and with the exception of the naval and military medical officers, it might, perhaps, be said that there were no medical men who could gain a livelihood, not by curing, but by preventing sickness. “ He would especially say a few words to those who had just arrived to study at this school. He was aware their position was a novel one, and he knew that they were exposed to many sources of temptation to vice; but he hoped that, as medical officers, they would do their utmost to support the dignity of their profession. They must remember that they entered the service older in years than the young combatant officers with whom they would often associate,—whereas the combatant officers often entered the service as boys fresh from school. Besides this, the medical officer entered after having had the benefit of a scientific education, Avhich, for the most part, the combatant officer had not had the advantage of having. He did not wish to put youth forward as a plea of justification for vice; but youth affecting manhood finds it easier to ape the vices of men than to emulate their virtues. Medical officers ought not merely to avoid such errors, but ought by their example and conduct to divert the tendency of their younger companions into a more useful sphere of action. “ The relationship between the military and the medical element of the army had also of late years greatly changed. Commanding officers now felt the importance of having medical officers who could preserve the health of the men under their command. “ He knew of a case where a medical officer went to the military officer in command and told him that unless such and such things were done, there would soon be a dreadful sickness among the men. The reply was: f When your advice is b