CONTUSION AND PARTIAL PRACTURE. 125 hypoeliondriac region. 7th.—The dyspnoea had increased, and his cough was troublesome; the sputa were purulent, and very tenacious; on applying the stethoscope to the chest, mucous rales could be heard masking the heart's sounds; pain in the right side ; pulse small and quick; epistaxis was so considerable as to weaken him greatly; slight diarrhoea. 9th.—He still suffers from diarrhoea; very restless at night, seems to be in every respect worse. 10th.—Complains greatly of pain in the right side ; appetite very bad; suffers much from vomiting. 11th.—Bowels not open to-day; his face looks anxious; eyes sunken; pulse very weak and quick; appetite entirely gone. 12tli.—Bowels not open for forty-eight hours ; is getting very low; complains greatly of pain in the left side; expectoration thick and purulent. 13th.—Died. Sectio Cadaveris, twenty hours after.—External Appearances. The aperture of en- trance of ball, about an inch in diameter, was observed to be situated on the front of the right shoulder, and on insert- ing a probe it was found to proceed backwards, between the upper part of the shaft of the humerus and the large vessels and nerves of the axilla, none of which were injured, and passed as far back as the integuments on the posterior fold of the axilla, where the aperture of exit was seen to be closed. The track of the ball was of a dark colour, and in a sloughing state, and contained three small pieces of necrosed bone. A portion of the shaft of the humerus, on its inner side, about two inches below its tuberosity, was bare, and denuded of periosteum, and carious. There is also a depression in this situation from loss of bony structure, where the ball had caused a partial fracture, No. 3629. Cranium. Membranes of brain much congested; the brain otherwise healthy. Thorax. There were five ounces of serum in the pericardium; heart healthy. The mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea, and bronchial tubes, as far as it could be traced into the lungs, of a deep purple colour, and highly congested; the right pleural cavity free from adhesions ; the left pleural cavity slightly connected to the walls of the chest from recently effused lymph, a thin coating of which covered the inferior lobe. On making a section of the lungs, they were found oedematous; several small sacs, the size of a bean, containing deposits of pus, were found in the structure of