103 PENETRATING OR PERFORATING. bleeding; his wound healed in the usual period, and he was discharged from hospital six months after its receipt. He has since suffered much from pain and tenderness in the region of the epigastrium, and he has been unable to wear his accoutre- ments, the pressure causes so much suffering; under the cir- cumstances, he is unfitted for the active duties of a soldier. April 28th.—Invalided. Penetrating or Perforating, with Lesion of the Intes- tines or Solid Organs. Penetrating wounds may be divided into those that penetrate the peritoneum without wounding or causing protrusion of any of the contained organs; and those where there is protrusion or wound of some of the viscera. The first description of wound cannot in many cases be dis- tinguished from simple flesh wounds, although the escape of a small quantity of reddish serum may reveal the nature of the accident; but the probe must not be used to ascertain the state of parts, and should peritonitis supervene, it must be treated according to the usual principles of surgery. In penetrating wounds caused by cutting instruments or by musket balls, with protrusion of a portion of omentum or intestine, the great danger is extravasation of the intestinal contents, or the effusion of blood, causing peritonitis. When a portion of intestine or omentum protrudes through the wound, and without any injury, it soon loses its polished and bright colour, and becomes dull and livid from congestion, and if the strangulation continues, inflammation and gangrene takes place. A portion of unwounded but protruding intestine should be returned as soon as possible, before sloughing takes place. When the protruded intestine is wounded, flatus or some of its fluid contents will be observed to escape. When there is only a mere puncture, or an incision two or three lines in length, an eversion of the mucous membrane takes place, so as to prevent the escape of its contents. When the opening is more than four lines in length, the everted mucous membrane cannot pre- vent the flow of the contents, but still it assists, in some