58 TREPHINE. advantage, and be of great service in saving life, when resorted to with discretion. On the other hand, preparations Nos. 2882, page 44; 2884, page 34; 2885, page 35; and others, show that patients recover from severe depressed fractures without the trephine. Mr. Guthrie states that if any ten healthy persons were trephined in an hospital, one would in all probability die from the effects of the operation, and three or four from inflammation of the brain and its membranes, and the other consequences which would probably ensue. It is not the admission of air that is to be dreaded in these cases, but the same kind of irritation which often follows the abstraction of a piece of bone, under other and more ordinary circumstances, at a later period of time. Mr. Taylor, C.B. and I.G., in his “Explanatory Observations on his Classification of Wounds and Injuries received in Ac- tion,” makes the following remark on the subject:—“The in- formation to be derived from reports and details of occasional cases of any one species of gunshot wound is imperfect, or even apt to mislead, when viewed apart from the general result in all similar cases. Cases of extraordinary recovery and of very gratifying success naturally obtain great prominence and ac- quire undue influence on after practice. It is thus, I am in- clined to think, that the marvellous results recorded now and then as a consequence of trephining have brought that opera- tion into unmerited repute in gunshot fractures with depressions. Let the value of this operation be tested by the results in all cases of fracture with depression, whether the trephine be em- ployed or not. I have heard and read of magic-like, immediate, and even, though more rarely, permanent beneficial changes consequent on trephining, but I have never had the good for- tune to witness a case of the kind, though I have diligently sought for one. I have seen a great many die after this opera- tion, some of whom might have lived, perhaps, had this opera- tion been omitted. So great, however, is the weight of authority in these cases, that symptoms of compression, as they are called, are no sooner set in than the patient is trephined as a matter of necessity. The natural history of a number of such cases otherwise treated is not known, and perchance not likely to be ascertained. Of the few who recover after trephining there is