55 TREPHINE. V. Circumstances under which the Trephine should be EMPLOYED. The only cases in which the trephine is advocated by some surgeons of the present day are the following: 1st. Gunshot or depressed fractures when cerebra symptoms have made their appearance, and are persistent. 2nd. When the surgeon is tolerably certain that blood or purulent matter exists between the bone and dura mater, but only when very urgent symptoms of compression come on, and resist all treatment. 3rd. Also in some few and rare cases of compound (supposed to be starred or punctured) and even simple fracture with marked depression and compression, but only when symptoms render such a proceeding indispensable. Military surgeons are much divided upon the question as to the propriety of applying the trephine, whether head symptoms present themselves or not, in all gunshot depressed fractures, with the view of averting inflammation of the brain and its membranes, and consequent abscess, &c., which are very likely to ensue unless the cause of irritation is removed; such an injury being considered by some a sufficient warrant for the operation. Other surgeons consider it expedient to wait until it shall become evident whether any operative measures will be required at all, as there are many cases on record where patients have recovered from gunshot depressed fractures with- out an operation, and especially as it is well known that men receive gunshot injuries, perhaps, with only a small wound in the scalp, and with slight depression, and suffer no incon- venience from it, and do not even complain of headache, but actually continue to do their duty. It would, therefore, be dif- ficult to persuade men, under these circumstances, to have an operation performed, and a surgeon would also hesitate in recom- mending such a course, especially as he cannot, in the great ma- jority of such cases, be certain of the condition of the parts within the skull. It is, therefore, the opinion of several military surgeons of great experience, that the best course is to wait and