EXCISION OF THE 22 t case in gunshot injuries and disease of the elbow- and shoulder- joint. Amputation of the arm, or any part of the upper ex- tremity, can be performed by any surgeon, and is much more easy; but when once done, it cannot be replaced, and no artificial contrivance can ever be compared to those preserved after successful excision of the elbow or shoulder, whatever may be its condition, either as to its appearance or usefulness. This operation is always done on the dorsal aspect, on ac- count of all the large arteries and nerves, except the ulnar nerve, lying in front. The patient is either seated on a chair, or laid on a table, with his face downwards. The attitude having been fixed upon, the arm and forearm should be firmly held by an assistant, with one part on the humerus, and the other on the forearm; and either a crucial incision, or one in the shape of the letter II, should be selected; the latter is generally chosen when much space is required for the removal of the injured or diseased bone. On the flaps being raised, the olecranon will be laid bare, and the ulnar nerve must be care- fully dissected out of its position, behind the internal condyle, and held aside with a blunt hook during the future steps of the operation; the attachment of the triceps should next be divided, and the cutting forceps used to separate the olecranon from the ulna; or, in gunshot injuries, the fractured parts can be removed by the fingers or forceps. The surgeon will nowT be guided as to the future steps by the apparent extent of in- jury or disease. The diseased or injured portions of the radius and ulna, and also of the humerus, can be removed either by the gouge, forceps, or fingers, and the saw may also be requisite to take away a portion of the articulation of the humerus. In all cases of extensive injury or disease, the lateral ligaments must be cut across, to allow the ends of the bones to be turned out. Caries is generally limited to the articular surfaces or their immediate vicinity; but in the performance of this operation, it is very necessary to distinguish between caries and that enlarged condition of the bone in the immediate neighbourhood of the disease which should be allowed to remain, as this arises from an excess of vitality, as shown by the formation of new bone, while there is the lowest amount of it in the parts denuded of cartilage. A splint should be worn at first on the inside to