197 SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. and continued upwards on the opposite side to join the incision on the dorsum. “This incision is performed by one continuous sweep from left to right without removing the knife. The finger is now pressed well out, so as to put the ligaments on the stretch, the joint en- tered, and the operation concluded. Having determined previously to remove the head of the metacarpal bone along with the finger, the same mode of proceeding is adopted, without, however, opening the joint. The incision is commenced on the dorsum, about an inch and a half above the joint, carried straight down, then brought round into the large fold in the palm, and con- tinued upwards to where it began. The blade of the knife is now placed parallel with the metacarpal bone, and carried round its head from right to left, and brought back in the reverse manner, and the bone divided by the forceps. By this method there is no cicatrix in the palm, the flaps are smooth and regular, the operation is also quicker in its performance, and leaves a much better covering than by the mode usually followed. “When amputating the thumb and metacarpal hone, the operator stands either on the inner or outer side of the arm, but I prefer the inner side, as most convenient. The point of a long narrow straight bistoury is entered opposite to the articu- lation of the metacarpal bone, and the trapezium passed under the adductors, and its point made to appear in the folds of the integuments betwixt the thumb and forefinger, and by cutting outwards a flap is formed. The knife is now laid upon the angle of the incision, between the thumb and finger, and con- tinued over the dorsum of the bone to the part where it was to transfix. The thumb is then firmly grasped by the operator, and the soft parts divided down to the articulation, which is now disarticulated with great facility. The result of this operation is exactly the same as that recommended by Mr. Liston. One of the chief points to be attended to before commencing an operation is to have a good position for its performance. In Mr. Liston’s method the surgeon stands in front, and is conse- quently very awkwardly placed for disarticulating the meta- carpal bone; whereas, by standing behind, the operator has the power of putting the muscles and ligaments on the stretch, and dislocating the bone with great facility.