LOWER EXTREMITIES. 211 move the head of the fibula, so as to form a better stump, but in consequence of the frequent occurrences of inflamma- tion and suppuration within the knee-joint following, it is not now usually adopted. The junction of the synovial mem- brane of the knee-joint with that of the fibula does not usually take place (as I have repeatedly verified by dissec- tion), still, they are so close to one another that the knee-joint may be easily opened, in disarticulating the head of the fibula, and, therefore, unless it is much shattered it should not be re- moved. When the limb is very muscular, a fleshy mass, formed chiefly of the gastrocnemius and solcus, is soft, which is with diffi- culty covered with skin, the former retracting more readily than the latter. Although it may look unsurgical, it would be well in such a case to cut a slice from the muscular part of the posterior flap, so as to bring them down to the level of the skin. This is more liable to occur in military than in civil practice, where the patient is in rude health, and the other emaciated from disease of the joint and long illness. The small anterior flap should be of such a size that there would be no chance of the cicatrix being more in the centre of the stump than on the front. As a general rule in all cases, it is better to preserve a little too much rather than the least portion too little, as it will soon be found, in about six months after amputation, that what looked clumsy and too big at first, has become a very appropriate and good stump. Twenty-one were admitted, and 21 were invalided. 11 were performed in the middle third, 4 at the upper third, and 2 at the lower third. 15 appeared to have been performed by the usual flap operation, but in 2 of them a large anterior flap was also made of integuments, in one of which the stump was good, and in the other the skin was adherent. 2 were by the circular method, and in both of them the skin was adherent; but still these two stumps were as good as any of those by the flap. 14 cases were operated upon under the influence of chloroform, and 3 without it. In 8 instances out of the total 21 cases the integu- ments were free, and movable over the crest of the tibia. In 3 cases only were the stumps unhealed. 16 were primary, and 2 secondary amputations. The following is an interesting example of the foot having