120 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE PERINEUM or sign of injury to the bones of the pelvis, but frequent pain in the perineum continued, and symptoms of inflammation of the mucous lining of the urethra and bladder (viz., pain in the urethra during and in the fundament after micturition, gleety discharge from the urethra, with deposit in the urine and general febrile irritation) which first appeared a fortnight after he was wounded, became gradually more urgent under the treatment adopted, on the supposition that they were the conse- quences of gonorrhoea, from which he said he had suffered lately in much the same way. In June three attempts were made to sound the bladder; but from the excessive pain caused by the instrument in the urethra it was withdrawn without any result obtained, and from the aggravation of the symptoms which followed its introduction the use of it could not be often repeated. On the 10th July, during a remission of the symptoms, which had materially impaired his general health, the bladder was sounded, and a substance of no great size, supposed from the history of the case to be the bullet, was discovered loose within it. On the 30th August the usual lateral operation was performed, and an iron grape shot, with a rough, jagged surface, encrusted with a slight sandy deposit, weighing one ounce and thirty-eight grains, wras extracted from the bladder. 2nd November, he was almost quite well. The following case illustrates the tricks that soldiers play upon each other. Private James Hussey, set. 25, 18th Regiment, had served abroad seven years, of which upwards of six were spent in China. At Hong Kong, on the 24th October, 1845, he was taken to the guard room in a state of intoxication, and on becoming sensible he found a piece of cane, about a foot long, in the urethra, retained by a string tied round the penis, and the re- moval of which was attended with slight haemorrhage. About a month afterwards he complained of pain over the pubis, and difficult micturition, the urine when passed being mixed with blood and mucus. On introducing a catheter into the bladder, a grating sensation was experienced. He was admitted into fort Pitt Hospital, on the 19th May, 1847, in a very emaciated, condition. Ilis skin was dry and scaly; gums spongy and scorbutic; and he likewise suffered from diarrhoea, which at- tacked him at the time he was leaving China. He complained