249 NEW RAILWAY HOSPITAL-CARRIAGE. either sitting or lying down, as the nature of their cases might require, and in which they might he attended to, and, if need he, receive medical aid. I shall now describe the hospital-carriage in which our sick were conveyed:—The interior of an ordinary baggage waggon is open on each side by two sliding doors; in front of the waggon is placed the breaksman's seat; it can, however, be made available for the accommodation of two sick lying, and likewise provide seats for one or two attendants. In the space remaining unoccupied five movable benches were arranged. These arrangements afforded room for 25 sick sitting and 2 lying on mattresses, placed on each side of the stage of the breaksman’s seat already mentioned.” “Bed-litters.—The ordinary litters of the hospital could not have been made use of Avithout encumbering the carriage, the width of which is seven and a half feet, which is less than the entire length of the ordinary litters; six bed-litters, therefore, with movable sides, were constructed. Of these, two for cacli division were kept in the field hospitals of the camp, and were at all times available for the conveyance of the sick of the different corps who were not in a fit state to be placed in an ambulance waggon. On field days one of them was always placed behind each of the hospital store waggons which followed the movements of the force. Thus, either in camp, beside the tents, or at the field hospital, or on the ground where the evolutions were taking place, a patient might be placed on the bed-litter, from which he would not require to be again removed until his arrival in the wards of the hospital at Chalons. The bed-litters have been of real service to us, not only on account of the ease with which they can be placed and arranged in the hospital-carriage, but as substitutes for beds, their excellent construction allowing them to be used as such for patients whom it would be unsafe to move. We would here remark that no conveyance, for either sick or wounded, can, for safety or convenience, in our opinion, equal the litter. To appreciate those cases in which its employment is indispensable, and to see that it is provided for the conveyance of such, are important points in the duty of a regimental surgeon, who ought never to dispense with its use simply on account of the number of bearers it requires.”