195 SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. being applied as a substitute for the hand. It is seldom that amputation of the forearm is required after wounds from musket ball, the shattered fragments are easily got at and removed, and the arteries can be cut down upon and secured without difficulty, except, perhaps, at the upper part of the forearm. Sloughing, from defect of nourishment, seldom takes place in the fingers as it does in the toes, when the great arteries are injured; consequently every effort should be made to save a forearm, however unpromising it may appear at first sight. 22 cases were admitted, of which 2 have been sent to modified duty, and 20 invalided. All have apparently been performed by double flap. 16 were done under the influence of chloro- form ; 15 were primary, and 4 secondary amputations; 4 in the upper, 11 in the middle, and 2 in the lower third. All were healed. In no instance was the integument adherent to the bone, and stumps were good. Amputation at the Wrist-Joint. When the hand is severely injured, and requires to be ampu- tated, this operation may be performed in preference to that higher up through the bones of the forearm ; still the length of the stump is of no great moment, especially as the flap, with its numerous tendons, is not so likely to heal, and there- fore there is no great advantage to be derived from its adoption. This operation can, however, be performed on an emergency with the apparatus in an ordinary pocket-case, without requiring a saw; still a saw or a pair of forceps might be useful in cutting off the articular surface of the radius and projection of the ulna. The hand being held in a horizontal position with the back upwards, a scalpel or large bistoury should be carried in a semilunar course down to the bones, from one side of the wrist to the other, about an inch and a half below the articulation. This flap should then be dissected up, and the posterior part of the joint opened; the ligaments on each side should next be divided, and then a flap similar in size and shape to the one already made, should be preserved from the front.