SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 193 application of ice. He gradually became weaker, and died on June 27th. Treatment.—Nourishing diet, wine, quina, &c. To the stump, fomentations, poultices, cold applications, and ice, as the state of the case required. Sectio Cadaveris, twelve hours after death.—Cranium. Brain healthy. Thorax. Heart empty; blood pale, and destitute of red globules; lungs cedematous, but otherwise healthy. Abdomen. Convex sur- face of the right lobe of the liver adhered to the diaphragm by old bands of adhesion, and a few slight depressions, resembling cicatrices. The other viscera in this cavity were healthy, with the exception of being pale and bloodless; veins healthy. Stump tense and swollen, with several incisions on its surface, from two of which large coagula projected. The stump was of a very foetid and gangrenous smell, and on cutting into it a very large cavity was found to extend from the extremity of the bone, up along its inner side, into the axilla, as far as the first rib, completely dissecting the axillary vessels and nerves, and like- wise the muscles of the arm; the shoulder-joint was opened into by absorption of the capsular ligaments, the cartilage covering the head of the bone and glenoid cavity being discoloured by the blood, but not diseased. The vessels from which the blood was poured out could not be detected even by careful dissection, showing how difficult, or almost impossible, it would have been to find the bleeding vessels, or even the axillary itself, in such a case in the living subject. A small portion of the extremity of the amputated humerus was bare and carious, which probably was the origin of the deep-seated inflammation and suppuration, causing ulceration of one of the smaller blood-vessels, and conse- quent luemorrhage, followed by a gangrenous state of the stump, and death from exhaustion. Preparation No. 3632. Stump of the right humerus after secondary amputation, resulting from a gunshot wound. The end of the bone shows that the medullary canal has not been closed, although nature has attempted to do so to some extent, and the end is partially rounded off'; the shaft of the bone is roughened, particularly below the head of the bone, where it is denuded of periosteum, and is carious. The following case shows anchylosis of the shoulder-joint after amputation of the upper third of the arm :—32nd Regiment. Private John Day, wounded at Jjucknow, August 27th, 13