136 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. extensively; and in 1 the greater portion of the tibia became necrosed, and was taken away. In a number of eases there was considerable contraction of the knee and leg. The following is a case where a ball is said to be firmly impacted in the ilium. 10th Regiment.— Private Robert Sherlock, wounded at Benares, June 4th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered about two inches below the crest of the ilium, and is firmly impacted in the bone, as stated in the document. At a consultation held on November 17th, at Dinapore, it was decided that at present an operation was not advisable. July 12th, 1858.—Wound healed; ball cannot be felt through the soft parts, and it causes no uneasiness or pain to the man. July 13th.—Sent to duty. The next is a case of fracture of the ilium by grape shot, followed by necrosis. Preparation No. 3627 is the portion of the external table of the ilium, about two inches in diameter, which was removed from the following subject. 88th Regiment. •—Private Martin Ford, set. 20, wounded at Cawnpore, November 26th, 1857, by a grape shot, on the crest of the right ilium, immediately above the anterior and superior spinous process, where it lodged, and was extracted two days after; several pieces of necrosed bones have come away. October 10th, 1858.—Wounds healed; there is a deep adherent cicatrix over the outer side of the hip, with stiffness and contraction of muscles. 15th.—Modified duty. The following case is an example of a wound near a joint, producing such severe inflammation of the ligamentous structure, and of the joint itself, as to cause anchylosis. This case was placed under this division, as it was thought probable there was more or less injury to the bone, although it was stated in the report of the case that there was not any fracture. 60th Rifles (1st Battalion). — Private Edmund Miller, wounded at Delhi, September 14th, 1857, by a musket ball, which struck the centre of the popliteal space, but, as far as could be observed at the time, not entering the joint or causing any fracture; great swelling and effusion occurred, with considerable disturbance, and excessive pain on moving the limb, or even the mildest manipulation. The bail was extracted with some diffi- culty from the aperture of entrance, which rapidly healed, and