EXCISION OE TIIE 22G In all cases of gunshot wounds of the elbow and shoulder- joints, where there is direct injury of the capsule, with fracture or splintering of the hones forming the articulation, primary resection should, as a rule, be performed on every occasion, as being more certain to terminate in a speedy cure, and to leave a much more useful limb, with a good artificial joint, than where the case is left to nature, when the track of the ball and joint itself generally become carious, and continue to discharge for years, ultimately requiring resection to be performed. The cases of Frazer and Morgan are examples of the above remark in reference to the shoulder-joint; and there arc several cases of wounds in the elbow and shoulder-joints from India, where complete anchylosis had taken place, and which would have had much more useful limbs, had excision been performed with the usual amount of success. 5th Regiment.—Private Thomas Johnstone, set. 30, wounded at Mussleagh, by a sword-cut, in five different places, March 19th, 1858. One wound opened freely into the right elbow- joint, and severely wounded the radius and humerus, necessi- tating excision, by the II incision, of this joint, which was per- formed two days after; this had been deferred until then, on account of the movements of the forces. Another shot carried away the left thumb, which was amputated. September 26th. —The arm hung powerless by his side, and he has not the power of raising the forearm ; he can use his fingers; the ulnar nerve seems to have been injured, as he has not the feeling of the ring and little fingers; when his arm is supported in a sling he will still have a useful forearm. Invalided December 29th, 1858. 75th Regiment.—Sergeant John M'Donald, ret. 26, wounded at Delhi, June 15th, 1857, by a musket ball, in the posterior part of the left elbow-joint. Excision, by FI incision, of the fractured parts wras immediately performed; several pieces of bone came away at the time, and several pieces came away afterwards. July 20th, 1858.—Wound healed; arm in an ex- tended position, and can be only slightly bent; he cannot open the little and ring fingers, and the others are also powerless. The arm is about three inches shorter than the right. Septem- ber 8th.—Sent to modified duty.