241 CONVEYANCE CAMMED BY MEN. Mules, however, are very much better adapted for the con- veyance of sick or wounded on their backs than horses. Under the head of “ llegulation for Field Hospitals,” con- tained in the last Array ‘ Medical Regulations/ published in 1859, page 69, every particular of the amount and different description of wheels and other conveyances, fyc. fyc., allowed in time of war for each battalion, brigade, and division, will be found. I. Conveyance carried by Men. Doolies and palanquins are means almost universally in use in the Indian Army, and cannot be done without, not only during the time of peace, but also in war, and it cannot be surpassed by any other in a country where bearers can be procured; and the only w ay to secure the services of these bearers is to give them the same pay as that given to the fighting portion of the army. The form of doolies somewhat varies in the different presi- dencies ; sometimes it consists only of a cot suspended by a bamboo and screened by an awming from the sun; but the following description of dooly and bearer, as seen in the accom- panying plate, is that of the one which is found most serviceable, and is in general use in almost all hospitals, &c., in India. Although a more expensive one, under the name of a palanquin, is used by officers and those who can afford to pay for them, still they are in no respect better for the conveyance and treat- ment of sick than the common dooly. In an Indian campaign, where there are perhaps 500 doolies, w ith the proportionate number of dooly-bearers, which makes such a large body of untrained followers as to be unwieldly and encumbers military movements by the space they occupy with the doolies on the march. In India wheeled carriages might lie substituted in many cases for a portion of the doolies, as generally about one half of the sick and wounded are capable of being moved by the wheeled conveyance ; but the old Indian hackery is very uufit for the purposes of war, and in place of them long carriages, on springs, capable of holding eight or ten convalescents in a sitting position, should be substituted. A good dooly establishment is, under all circumstances, 1G