GUNSHOT M OUNDS OE THE CHEST. 88 about half an ounce of greenish, straw-coloured fluid; liver healthy; the gall-bladder was loaded with bile; intestines healthy. 14th Light Dragoons.—Private John O’Neill, set. 29 years, wounded, November 23rd, 1857, at Mundesand in the Deccan, by a musket ball in the right side of the chest; the ball entered posteriorly at the inferior angle of the scapula, five inches above the spinous processes of the vertebrae, apparently between the eighth and ninth ribs, and was cut out immediately after from the right nipple. It had broken a rib at its exit. He went some distance on his horse from the field, and bled considerably; at the time his respiration was almost gasping, his countenance anxious, and pulse very feeble. He was almost in a state of collapse, and was thought to be dying. He was kept at perfect rest, his chest bandaged, and opium administered; for some days this treatment was continued ; he was fed on barley-water; the pulse became rapid, aud breathing painful; tongue dry and brown; thirst always urgent. On the 28th the wound began to discharge healthy pus; he had no cough, nor did he expectorate blood. The skin became cooler, and tongue began to clean, though the pulse continued frequent; the bowels had not been relieved since the wound had been received. 30th.—1 oz. of castor-oil relieved the bowels, and he was carried a march in a doolcy, and took light puddings, milk, &c. On the 4th December, 3 oz. of port wine; no medicine. On the 9th could sit up for a few minutes to have his wounds dressed; they were both closing. The ends of the fractured ribs could be plainly felt; he was now allowed a little chicken diet. On the 15th the wound in the nipple had healed; he had gained strength, although he was very much prostrated. The chest did not act much on the right side during inspiration. On the 20th he could walk a little about the hospital; the posterior wound had nearly closed; there was slight crepitation about the lung near the wound, readily heard by the stethoscope ; tongue had become quite clean; appetite good, and pulse natural. The chest was tender on pressure over the track of the ball, and he could not exert himself without a dull pricking pain there. The right side of the chest still acted very imperfectly. On the 5th September, 1858, the wounds healed; respiration at entrance and