CONTUSION OU FRACTURE OP THE CRANIUM. 41 wliat was thought to he the loose piece of hone within the skull, but on laying the parts open it was found to be the ball. It could not be removed without the application of the trephine, which was applied so that its edge at one spot overlapped the torcular herophili, as thus considerable facilities were afforded for the removal of the foreign body and a quantity of commi- nuted bone which had been driven before it. On removing the ball (a round one), it was found that it had been caught on the edge of the unfractured bone in a way not explicable without the aid of a drawing, five sixths of its diameter being within the skull; and that it would appear that it had become loose on the process of suppuration being set up, when it had dropped entirely into the skull. The comminuted fragments of bone were carefully removed after the extraction of the ball, as well as a portion of his cap. The point of a small, sharp spiculum of bone was found to have penetrated the torcular, and its re- moval was followed by venous haemorrhage. This was easily arrested by a small fragment of sponge, and gave no trouble. The dura mater was intact. He went on well till the 1st of August, when he was seized with fever of an adynamic type, with congestion of the lungs, but without symptoms referable to the head; this was the more remarkable, as most of the fevers at that time occurring showed a great tendency to head conges- tion. From this disease he died on the 7th of August, the wound being nearly healed at the time of his death. On post- mortem examination, no traces of inflammation of the brain or of its membrane were found. A small portion of brain substance appeared wanting, giving the idea that it had been absorbed under the pressure of the bullet. The dura mater was entire and healthy. A minute opening, closed by plastic lymph, existed into the torcular, but the interior showed no trace of inflammation. It appears probable that this might have proved a recovery from the so much dreaded operation of trephining, but for the intercurrent disease. No. 2899.—J. Perkins, 44th Regiment, was wounded 18th June, and admitted at the Castle 21st June, suffering from lacerated wound of scalp inflicted by shell. An angular fissured fracture of bone existed, the angle of which was very slightly depressed. On the 23rd June, slight symptoms of compression