17 NECROSIS. between the bone and dura mater, causing compression of the brain; most frequently, however, the external table only dies and exfoliates, so that separation of the pericranium and necrosis is not a certain indication of the formation of matter between the bone and dura mater. This latter membrane is more vascular than the pericranium, and when the dura mater is detached necrosis is much more likely to occur than when the pericranium alone is separated. When the injury is so severe as to detach both the pericranium and dura mater extravasation takes place, followed by necrosis of the whole thickness of the bone and the formation of matter and also in those cases where the dura mater is separated by itself. Symptoms of compression from the deposition of pus do not take place for days or weeks after the accident, whereas that from the effusion of blood is immediate or almost so. As matter continues to accumulate, the bone becomes necrosed, and, unless evacuated, it causes inflammation and ulceration of the membrane, and substance of the brain, and death. Mr. Pott states that the local signs following a smart blow on the head and attended with languor, pain, restlessness, watching, quick pulse, headache, and slight, irregular shivering, do almost invariably in- dicate an inflamed dura mater, and pus either forming or formed between it and the cranium. Cases of compression of the brain from the formation of pus below the bone, requiring the application of the tre- phine, are of rare occurrence at the present day compared to former years, apparently from the more active antiphlogistic treatment pursued on the first symptoms of inflammation making their appearance ; and also, when a patient has received a severe injury of the head, he is carefully watched. When purulent matter has formed in the substance of the brain, at its base or on its surface operative measures are useless. The diploe, or the veins distributed in it, sometimes inflame and suppurate, and should a fissure exist and matter be discharged in any quantity, it should be evacuated. Inflam- mation of the veins of the diploe is a very serious disease, on account of the secondary abscesses which frequently form in distant internal organs, such as the liver and lungs, and also from its immediate effects upon the brain itself. It is now 2