INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 231 by Oppenheim, 1 by M. Scutin, and 1 by Schwartz. In the Crimean war excision of the head of the femur was performed 6 times, and all but one were primary operations. One of the patients survived the operation, and recovered, viz., Private Thomas M/Kenna, 68th Regiment. On his arrival at Chatham the limb is reported to have been about two and half inches shorter than the other, and capable of bearing some considerable portion of the weight of the body. He could swing it and advance it, but the knee could not be bent. Rotation was adnfitted to a very limited extent, but performed with consider- able pain. The wound was soundly healed, and the man was discharged from the service. So far as the results of the Crimean war go, it clearly proves the superiority of excision of the head of the femur over ampu- tation at the hip-joint. The head of the femur has frequently been excised for morbus coxse, and with great success, but no comparison can be made between it and that for gunshot wounds. No doubt in any future campaign excision of the hip-joint will be much more frequently employed, and great attention paid to the selection of cases. When the operation is performed on account of disease of the hip-joint, it would most likely be necessary to scrape away portions of the cotyloid cavity. In gunshot injury this opera- tion is generally the only alternative of the surgeon to save his patient from almost certain death, or the last very doubtful alternative of amputation at the joint. The cases for this operation on account of gunshot injury should be well selected, and also those resulting from disease. In those consequent on disease, and where there is reason to apprehend abscesses in the psoas and iliacus muscles, &c., the result must be the reverse of satisfactory. In consequence of the unfavorable condition of the lower extremity resulting after many months, where an endeavour had been made to preserve the limb, during the Crimean war, the French surgeons, during the last Italian campaign, have abandoned, as a general rule, conservative surgery in the lower extremity, except in injuries near the hip-joint, and have taken to primary amputation as the more successful practice.