J 98 AMPUTATION OP THE tl For the removal of a whole toe the same oval method, as it may be called, is adopted. It is here of still greater advantage, as there is no cicatrix left in the sole of the foot to annoy the patient when walking. “The metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the small toes are deeply seated in the ball of the foot, and the knife must he carried by the method usually practised to the extent of two inches into the sole to reach the joint, and on disarticulating the bone the integuments are notched and cut in a very awk- wrard manner. In the method recommended these objections are removed. “ In amputating the finger, the head of the metacarpal bone should always be removed; but in the toes it ought, if possible, to be preserved, especially that of the great toe, for the purpose of giving greater support in walking. “ The toes, with the whole of the metatarsal bones, can be removed in the same manner. The great and little toes are those that most frequently require to be amputated. This can be effected by making a straight incision along the dorsum, brought down into the fold in the sole, and terminating in an acute angle near its commencement; the bone is then cleared and disarticulated.” Amputation of the Thumb.—16 were admitted. 2 have been sent to duty, 6 to modified duty, and 8 invalided. All w^ere healed. Amputation of the Fingers.—54 were admitted, of which 5 were sent to duty, 17 to modified duty, and 32 invalided. There were several good examples of conservative surgery where the whole of the hand had been taken away, with the exception of the thumb and forefinger. In many cases, where one or more fingers had been amputated, the others had become so bent and contracted that forcible extension had to be em- ployed, with very good results. The following case well illustrates the abuse of the fashionable term, “ Conservative Surgery.” Patrick Kennedy, 1st Battalion 5th Regiment, was wounded on the 2nd December, 1858, at Monee, by a musket ball through the nob of the ring and middle fingers, left hand ; the adjacent phalangeal and metacarpal bones are stated by the surgeon to have been “ shattered,” and