170 GUNSHOT WOUNDS, WITH DIRECT PENETRATION is firmlv lodged in tlie head of the femur, having produced only a fissure. This would have been a favorable case for re- section. The following is a description of it:—No. 2930 (see Plate VIII, fig. 3).—A matchlock ball, firmly lodged in the head of the femur. The ball entered opposite to the trochanter major, and passed through the brim of the ace- tabulum. From Private Alexander M'Phail, set. 32, wounded at Dubha, March 24, J 84-3, by a matchlock ball, which entered a little above the great trochanter of the right limb anteriorly, and was lost. The leg became powerless. On coming to Colaba, on April 28, he did not complain of much pain, except when the joint was moved. Slight fulness over the hip was the only symptom of injury. Leeches and counter-irritation were em- ployed, and he seemed to get better. On May 6th he was attacked with trismus, and died on the 9th. The ball was found imbedded in the head of the femur, which, with half of the brim of the acetabulum, was shattered, and the capsular ligament formed the sac of an abscess, which contained a considerable quantity of pus and spiculse of bone. The orifice of the wound, it is added, had closed some time previous to his death. Knee-joint. Two were admitted from India. One was invalided, and the other remains. In one case the synovial membrane was directly perforated, but no fracture of bone had taken place. In the other it is doubtful if the ball penetrated the cavity of the joint, although the surgeon says it passed through the joint. In the Crimean war, 23 cases are returned among the men, and six in officers. Six of these patients died, viz., three men and three officers. Thirteen men and two officers were dis- charged for operation, but only one of those for resection of the joint, and in that case the operation w^as a secondary one, an attempt having been made in the first instance to save the limb. In the remainder amputation was resorted to. In the following case from India the ball seems to have passed through the condyles of the femur, and was followed by partial anchylosis. Private John Dunlay, aged 26, wounded at