146 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP TIIE LOWER EXTREMITIES. (lied twelve months after the accident, from pneumonia. Taken from Private James Hewitt, 29th Regiment, set. 25; seven years’ service, of which four years in India; received a gunshot wound at Ferozepore, December 21st, 1845; the ball passed through the left thigh, fracturing the femur, and lodged in the right, from which it was extracted. Admitted into Fort Pitt General Hospital, September 28th, 1846. There were two depressions on the left thigh. On October 7th erysipelas attacked this thigh; on the lltli, incisions were made on its inner side, from which a piece of exfoliated bone was extracted. From this date to the beginning of November the erysipelas had gradually extended to the foot, and had given rise to great constitutional disturbance. Openings were at different times made to give exit to large quantities of pus. There was shortening of the limb to the extent of four and a half inches, and four openings in the thigh, one on the outer side, through which the probe reached the bone in a denuded state. December 27th.—He was attacked with acute pain in the left side, at the lower border of the true ribs, accompanied by cough and difficulty of breathing. Expectoration not coloured; on the left side there was (lulness, and coarse crepitation heard. He gradually be- came weaker, and died January 2nd, 1847. Sectio Cadaveris. —External Appearances. Body much emaciated; left leg much swollen, and four and a half inches shorter than the other; on making an incision into the affected limb, the sub-cuta- neous fat and areolar tissue were thickened, and infiltrated with scram; on laying open the outer sinus there issued a large quantity of dark-coloured pus; underneath this open- ing, and lying close upon the bone, was found the flattened remains of a musket ball. The left pleural cavity contained two ounces of turbid scrum, in which were floating flakes and masses of lymph; the pulmonary and costal pleura was highly vascular, and coated with a recent layer of lymph, which was easily detached. The lower lobe was condensed, and sank in water; a section presented the usual appearance of gray hepa- tization, softened and broke down, and infiltrated with pus. Right lung healthy. No. 2967 (see Plate VI, fig 4). Gunshot fracture of the left thigh. The ends of the bones arc very much displaced,