EXCISION OE THE 234 crucial ligaments should be divided, so as to permit of a thorough examination of the injured or diseased bones; the saw, gouge, or forceps, can then be used, according to circum- stances, and the diseased portions of the femur and tibia removed. Great care must be taken in using the knife at the posterior part of the joint, for in dividing the crucial ligaments there is nothing between the knife and the popliteal vessels; and likewise on applying the saw the same caution should be adopted. In general the patella requires to be removed ; but ii it should be found sound it may be allowed to remain; in any case it is not of much importance whether it is left or taken away. Perhaps no vessel will require to be tied except only the articular arteries. The wound should be dressed in the usual manner, and the limb steadily supported in the extended posi- tion in a M‘Intyre’s splint made straight, or any other descrip- tion of long splint. After a month or two, if the wound has cicatrized and the patient has a stiff knee, the surgeon may be satisfied that he has effected a good cure. As yet our experience of excision of the knee-joint in cases of gunshot fractures is not extensive, and the means necessary for after treatment in military practice arc not encouraging, but the success which has followed it in cases of disease of the joint makes military surgeons also wish to extend it to the field. The absolute rest and quiet after the operation, which are so difficult to obtain with an army in the field, is the chief and the only objection to its adoption. There are two cases recorded of excision of this joint for gunshot injuries—one in the Schleswig Holstein war, and the other in the Crimean war. Both died. Ankle-joint. An incision should be made across the front of the ankle- joint, from under one malleolus to the other, dividing the skin only; the peroneil tendons should then be detached from behind the external malleolus; the external lateral ligaments should then be cut, and the malleolus externus removed by