152 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OE THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. mediate amputation, this operation will, in all probability, have to be performed in the thigh. If, therefore, a certain number of thigh amputations are admitted, it may be inferred that the greater number had been originally wounds of the leg, and not cases of compound fracture of the femur demanding amputation. 15 amputations of the thigh have arrived from India; of which 14 are returned as in the middle third, and 1 in the upper, of the total 842 wounded. As stated in the Preface, the success of the cases from India with this description of fracture is not to be imputed to the difference of the bullets, but to the better means at hand for treating both compound frac- tures of the femur and amputations. It also appears to be the better practice not to be overanxious about the length of the limb, but rather to leave it almost entirely without splints. In the following case there appears to be some doubt as to whether the femur was actually fractured, or whether it was only a partial fracture ; although, from the direction of the ball and the state of the limb since the injury, there is strong pre- sumptive evidence that there was a complete fracture, either through the neck of the bone or through the trochanter, but ■without displacement, as now there is almost no shortening, not more, or perhaps so much, as half an inch. This man is, there- fore, returned under Class IX, Division 2, but his case is detailed in this place. Of the 12 cases returned there can be no doubt that the femur was fractured. 24th Regiment.—Private James Moore, aged 33, thirteen years’ service, was wounded by a musket ball on July 7th, 1857, at Jhelum, which entered the left groin, about two inches below Poupart’s ligament, and about two and a half inches external to the femoral artery, and passed out an inch and a half behind, and a little below the great trochanter, injuring the bone. Fragments of bone have continued at various times to come away. He has been at Gravesend since August, 1858, since which no dead bone has come away, but “ he has had a pretty regular monthly accession of ague,” with hepatic complication, lasting for a few days, and followed by formation of matter in the seat of the wound; and sinuses, which have re-opened, dis- charge for a short time, and then quite heal up, to break out again on the next disturbance of the general health. There is