AMPUTATION OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 187 in military practice is still an unsettled question. The circular operation leaves a firm cushion, which bears hasty removal over rough or uneven roads, on being taken to the rear: whilst the large flaps become bruised and knocked about, and arc apt to reopen and slough, or secondary haemorrhage to take place: this is especially the case in the large muscular flaps of the thigh and leg, but in the upper extremity, this objection is not of so much importance. One of the arguments in former days in favour of the flap was, the rapidity with which it could be performed; this, however, is done away with since the introduc- tion of chloroform. The other argument put forth by the advocates in favour of each particular method are not of so much importance. Total number of amputations, 195. Of these, 8 were sent to duty; 29 to modified duty; 156 invalided; 2 died. It may be mentioned that Mr. H. Bigg supplied the men with every mechanical appliance, on the most approved prin- ciple which his experience could suggest. Amputation of the Superior Extremities. The scapula and a portion of the clavicle, along with the superior extremity, have been removed by amputation, but gene- rally after disarticulation has been performed at the shoulder- joint. In 1847 Professor Fergusson removed the scapula in the case of an old invalid soldier, on whom I had per- formed amputation at the shoulder-joint three years before, for caries. The patient ultimately recovered and got into excellent health. However, for none of these operations can rules be laid down further than those of the common principles of surgery. v * Amputation at the Shoulder-joint. Amputation at the shoulder-joint is not a difficult surgical ope- ration. There are about thirty different methods of performing it, and all require a thorough knowledge of anatomy; still there are only two methods which arc now usually resorted to in the present day by those most competent to judge. The first is by superior