LOWER EXTREMITIES. 213 carried across the sole of the foot, the point of both incisions meeting in front and a little below the malleoli. The soft parts are further divided and detached in such a manner as to allow of the removal of the foot; lastly, the saw is applied to separate the malleoli, and, if necessary, a thin plate of the articular service of the tibia. The tibial and other arteries are secured, and the flap is brought up from the sole of the foot against the ends of the bones, and the wound treated in the usual manner. This operation is much more difficult than amputation in the leg; but it has such great advantages that, whenever it is practicable, it should be performed. To disarticulate and to separate the skin from the projecting part of the os calcis is a very tedious and protracted dissection, and very frequently the integuments covering the heel are cut; but this is not of much moment, as an opening is rather an advantage than otherwise, as it allows the free escape of pus, should any form. Occa- sionally sloughing takes place in the posterior flap; but this does not in general cause much annoyance. Care should be taken to preserve the posterior tibial artery, so that it may not be cut across at the upper angle of the flap, and also at its final division in the sole of the foot, so that there may be a sufficient supply of blood for the flap below. This operation is suitable for gunshot wounds of the tarsus and compound luxation of the ankle-joint, as well as for disease of the joint; and even when the ankle-joint is the principal seat of disease, this operation can be performed, as it is seldom that there is more than a thin layer of the articular surface of the tibia affected. This operation has many advantages; it gives length of limb and stump, and a most perfect covering to the ends of bones, and likewise a good artificial foot can be applied, which will look more seemly than a wooden leg. It sometimes happens after this amputation, as after others in the long bones, that disease may arise in the osseous sur- faces where the saw has been applied; in such a case the cicatrix may be opened up and a part of the bones sawn off. Pirogoff has recommended that the same semilunar incision should be made in front of the joint and disarticulation affected, and an incision made across the sole of the foot, connecting the