GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE DIAPHRAGM. 97 on opening the body, and the remark was immediately made that they did not present the appearance of invaginations which are the cause of death, but rather what are seen to take place during the latter stages of life when a patient has no symptoms of derangement of the intestinal canal. It is, therefore, probable that the intus susception took place after the commencement of the fatal disease, and was not the cause of it, but to be attributed to the violent peristaltic motions excited by the action of the croton-oil which was administered. At the first view of the case it appeared to throw some light on the physiology of vomiting, as to how far the muscles of the abdomen and diaphragm co-operate with the stomach in this mechanical act. But the whole of the stomach not being displaced into the thorax, whatever influence they possess may have been, therefore, exercised on the part in the abdomen. It is also to be supposed that the contents of the stomach* and transverse arch of the colon, situated in the thorax, remained the same from the time they became strangulated. Mr. Guthrie's remarks as to wounds of the diaphragm never uniting may be the fact generally, but in a case where a wound of the diaphragm is small, and the patient is kept quiet and on proper diet, there appears to be no reason for supposing that the wound would not close; the base of the lung might adhere to the diaphragm, close up the opening, and so form a boundary between the thorax and abdomen, and thus prevent a hernial protrusion. Besides, it is only in those cases where a hernia has taken place that a surgeon, on an autopsy taking place, makes such a careful examination of those parts. I am, therefore, dis- posed to think that in some cases of wounds in the lower part of the thorax the diaphragm has been injured, and the patient has recovered from its effects so as never after to draw any atten- tion to it; and that union of the divided fibres of the diaphragm or pleuritic adhesion have taken place in some cases, and pre- vented a hernia from forming, as is possibly the case in that of Greenfield and Eally, and others. It is very remarkable that this extraordinary malposition of the stomach and colon should have produced so little inconve- nience to the patient, and that in every respect Fletcher was in perfect health until strangulation took place. 7