GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 86 the previous attacks of inflammation, except along the track of the ball, and where the bone had become necrosed, and kept the posterior wound open and discharging. The fractured ribs are united, and are not much displaced; that at the entrance of the ball projects somewhat inwards, and must have produced considerable irritation to the pleura and lung. (See Plate II, fig. 1, No. 3638.) Numerous pieces of necrosed bone were found in a paper under the patient's pillow after his death, which were supposed to have come from the ribs. The upper half of the left lung adhered to the walls of the chest by old adhesions; inferior lobe adhered to the thoracic parietes by lymph of a more recent date, a coating of which fringed it, and covered its lower margin: structure of the upper half of the superior lobe entirely destroyed and broken up, forming a large, irregular cavity, filled with a dark, foetid fluid, having several of the larger bronchial tubes intersecting it, the whole in a state of gangrene; inferior half of the same lobe in a state of gray hepatization, as also the upper part of inferior lobe, which was condensed, and sank in water. (See Plate II, fig. 2, No. 3637.) The remainder of this lobe was oedematous, but otherwise free from disease. Abdomen.—Liver healthy; gall-bladder filled with dark bile; weight of liver 3 lbs. 8 oz.; spleen healthy, weight 11 oz.; kidneys healthy; weight of right, 8 oz.; left, 8y oz.; stomach and intestines healthy; bladder empty and contracted; veins, as far as they could be traced, were found healthy, and the larger veins filled with dark coagula, and at parts fluid blood; but no fibrinous clots softened in their centres, nor pus globules, were detected. All the joints were healthy. This was at first thought to be a case of pymmia, where the pus globules or blood-poisoning had excited in- flammation in the left lung, resulting in pneumonia and gangrene; but, as stated above, none of the other morbid appearances usually found in cases of pyeemia could be dis- covered. Our knowledge of all the circumstances connected with, and the pathological appearances resulting from poisoning of the blood in cases of open gunshot wounds, is not yet complete, so that this case, on more minute information on the subject, may ■ K, classed undei the head of death from pysemia, or perhaps it