221 SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. ments can be felt botli from the anterior and posterior openings. General health good. 17tli.—The head of the humerus was excised, and it shows the track of the ball to be in a carious state. Numerous smaller pieces were also taken away by the gouge.—Invalided. 9th Regiment.—Private John Morgan, set. 39. Eighteen years’ service—ten of them in India. Was wounded in action at Idaliff, in September, 1842, the ball passing through the right shoulder-joint and injuring the scapula. On admission into Fort Pitt Hospital, June 9th, 1844, there were three sinuses, two on the anterior aspect of the joint, one opposite the coracoid pro- cess, where the ball entered, and the other at the lower border ot the axilla, and another on the posterior aspect, the exit of the ball, each communicating with diseased bone. Excision was performed on June 22nd, 1844, by me; a semilunar flap was made of the deltoid, embracing the entrance and exit of the ball; and on attempting to dislocate the humerus, this was found impossible, on account of complete anchylosis of the joint. The humerus was sawn across about two inches below its head, then cleared of soft parts, and raised; its attachment to the glenoid cavity was broken down by means of cutting pliers. The wound healed quickly, and he gradually regained the powers of motion in the arm. No. 2919. Head and neck of the right humerus, which was excised on account of caries consequent on a gunshot wound. The large, deep groove is the track of the ball; it is carious a little below the groove. There is an aperture, about one fourth of an inch in diameter, situated on the inner aspect of the bone, leading into the medullary cavity. The tubercles and upper part of the shaft are enlarged from depositions of new osseous matter. Excision in any part of the shaft of the humerus is seldom required, but should it be necessary, there can be neither diffi- culty or danger in doing so by making an incision on the outer or posterior surface of the arm.