OH PERFORATION OF THE LARGER JOINTS. 171 Lucknow, November 16th, 1857, by a musket ball, which struck him on the inner side of the right knee, two inches from the side of the patella, passed through the condyle of the femur and knee- joint, and passed out on the outside of the joint, close to the head of the fibula. July 13th.—Wounds healed, knee-joint slightly bent, and partially anchylosed. Can walk tolerably well, and has a very useful limb; neither cicatrix adherent to the bone. In the next case it is rather doubtful whether there was direct penetration of the joint. 93rd Regiment.—Serjeant David Simm, wounded at Royah, on April 15th, 1858, by a bullet which entered one and a half inches to the inner side of the patella, over the inner condyle of the femur, and made its exit at a little higher level, over the tendon of the inner hamstring. It is doubtful if it entered the cavity of the joint, although the surgeon says, “ passed through the joint.” It was followed by acute inflammation of the joint, and the limb cannot now be fully straightened, and on flexing it a grating sensation is felt. The following case, although not included in the Return as a wound of the joint, is interesting as showing the inflammation extending to the structures of the joint, terminating in anchy- losis. 61st Regiment.—Private Martin Parraher, wounded August 25th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered the external condyle of the left knee-joint, making its exit through the outer side of the popliteal space. Considerable inflammation and swelling of the joint ensued. September 5th.—The joint itself does not appear to have been wounded, but from its proximity, severe inflammation followed, resulting in complete anchylosis. There are livid spots on his leg, from his constitution being tainted with scurvy, and his gums are spongy. The following preparation, No. 2933 (see PI. VIII, fig. 4), shows the condyles of the femur and the patella fractured by a carbine ball, which in its entrance has comminuted the point of the patella, split the bone longitudinally, and lodged in the bone between the condyles, and caused a fissure through the internal one. From Private M. Walsh, 3rd Light Dragoons. The in- jury took place while the leg was in a state of flexion, from the accidental discharge of his comrade’s carbine. The limb was amputated twenty-four hours after, and the man arrived at Fort Pitt quite well at the end of three months.