AMPUTATION OP THE 202 tcmber the wounds were healed, and he was capable of walking three miles at a time, the wooden leg which he had attached to his body being thrown forward by an exertion of the muscles of the trunk. He was placed in the Hotel des Invalides. Dr. James McRae, Field Surgeon of the Army of the Pun- jaub during the campaign of 1848 and 1849, mentions that “ the three amputations at the hip-joint were entirely unsuc- cessful, not from loss of blood during the operation—for in none of the cases were more than a few ounces lost—but from the extent of the original injury, and fatal shock to the consti- tution caused by it; all the cases were cannon-shot wounds, high up in the limb, with extensive lacerations and loss of the soft parts, and comminuted fracture of the femur. One case lived only six hours, one about twelve hours, and the third thirty-six hours. Stimulants and opium were rejected by vomiting; the system appeared to be under a fatal collapse, from which nothing could rouse it, and amputation was had recourse to as the only, though most doubtful, chance the man had of recovery.” Amputation of the Thigh. The femur has such an ample covering of soft parts that flaps may be taken from any aspect of the thigh. It may be necessary to make only one flap, and that can be taken from any side of the limb which is not too much torn and lacerated, and can afford sufficient covering. A Single Flap may in certain cases be made from either side, and it has also been recommended by some surgeons that a single flap from the posterior part of the thigh has this advantage—that the cicatrix is not exposed to pressure whilst in the socket of the wooden leg. Anterior and Posterior Flaps.—This operation is most ap- plicable for both military and civil practice (for the reasons given under the next method), and is performed in the following manner:—As much of the soft part as can be grasped by the left hand, so as to bring them well forward, is raised, and the knife should then be pushed across from the outside and carried