9.2 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OE THE DIAPHRAGM. tion of wound in the Museum. In one case the soldier lived twenty-two years after, and did his duty; another lived one year, also in good health; and of the third there is no record. No. 12G0.—Diaphragmatic hernia; the greater part of the transverse arch of the colon, with the omentum, are situated above the diaphragm, and in the left pleural cavity. The open- ing is in the muscular portion of the diaphragm, and about an inch in diameter. No. 1268.—Displays the whole of the stomach and greater part of the transverse arch of the colon (both rather small) with the omentum situated in the lower and anterior part of the left cavity of the thorax. The anterior surface of the stomach is firmly attached to the lower lobe of the lung; the lung at this side, as may be expected, has become much reduced in size, and occupies the superior and posterior part of its proper cavity. The right lung is smaller than the left, and from the circum- stance of the heart being much displaced by the stomach and colon, and instead of extending across from the second rib of the right side to the sixth of the left, as this viscus naturally does, it now lies nearly parallel to the spine, having the apex almost on a level with the coronary ligament of the liver, and, being of a natural size, must have proved much less yielding during respiration than the stomach and the colon on the other side of the chest. The opening in the diaphragm extends in a transverse direction near to the centre of the dorsal attachment of the left side of this muscle, and the objects forming the hernia have contracted adhesions with the diaphragm and other parts, and the peritoneum lining the former is, in many places, continuous with that covering the colon. This very interesting specimen was taken from the body of Sergeant Denis Barry, 88th Regiment, who died on the 4tli of January, 1833, in con- sequence of gangrene of the left lower extremity, produced, as it was supposed, by metastasis of a severe rheumatic affection of the larger joints. He was wounded at Fuentes D’Onores, in 1811, in the left breast; death took place twenty-two years after the wound. After receiving the wound he had never been able to wear his knapsack with ease, and his breathing became much affected whenever he walked quicklv or ascended a hill.