PERFORATING THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 45 weeks after the wound, and died. The ball was found loose in the lateral ventricles, having shifted its original position. The next preparation, from Private 'William Doyle, 19th Regiment, is very interesting, and shows:—“ 1st. That a hall may he cut in two by striking the margin of the fractured bone, and in such a manner as to leave a smooth surface on the hall, as if it had been cut by a sharp instrument, and one portion of bullet to enter the cranium, causing fracture, depression, and splintering of the internal table. 2nd. That in all proba- bility the depressed portion sprung up or was forced up by the motion and resistance caused by the brain. 3rd. That a bullet may enter the cranium without leaving an aperture in the skull, but merely a slight depression and fissure, and leaving no evidence of its having entered the skull during life, until found on post-mortem examination. 4th. That the internal table is more splintered than the external. 5tli. That the trephine may be applied without the surgeon being able to take away splintered portions, or to find the ball; in this case, however, there was no evidence of a ball having penetrated. 6th. It also records a wound in the superior longitudinal sinus, with extra- vasation of blood on the brain. It also shows that the want of an apparently sufficient opening does not prove that the ball has not penetrated and lodged, as the elasticity of bone is such as to diminish the aperture to a considerable extent. The patient survived the wound five or six hours only. No. 2883.— Lodgment of part of a rifle ball in the brain, without the usual evidence of a hole in the cranium. Portion of cranium with a depressed fracture by musket ball. Portion removed by tre- phine. Portion of rifle ball found in cerebrum. —Donor, T. Longmore, Surgeon, 19th Regiment. This patient, set. 19, was wounded in the head by a rifle-ball in the advanced trenches of the right attack, 13th August, 1855. The scalp and pericranium were cut about two inches, and a portion of the cranium about an inch in length, and half an inch in breadth, a little in advance of the posterior and superior angle of the ri<>lit parietal bone, and close to the sagittal suture, was de- pressed. According to statement, the man was rendered per- fectly senseless and motionless from the instant of being struck by the ball; so much so that at first he was supposed to be dead.