82 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 17th.—Was free from any had symptoms. July 13tlij 18;>8. Wounds healed, percussion clear, and respiratory murmur dis- tinct and clear all over the right side of the chest. July 14th. —Duty. 93rd Regiment.—David M'Kay, set. 25, wounded at Lucknow, November 16, 1857, by a musket ball penetrating the right side of chest, emerging at the centre of the back, about an inch above the level of the lower angle of the scapula. During the progress of the case a piece of the spinous process came away; and during a full inspiration air came through the posterior wound with aloud report. July 14th, 1858.—Wound healed ; respiration audible; pain in right side when lying down, other- wise quite well. July.—Duty. 60th Regiment.—Private John Peake, set. 23, wounded at Delhi, September 14th, 1857, by a musket ball, which pene- trated the body on the right side, about an inch from and in a line with the ensiform cartilage, wounding the organs within, and passing with slight obliquity downwards to the left side, to the ninth and tenth ribs, where it issued, and a piece of lung protruded; the wounds did not heal for five months; had vomiting of blood after the accident, and was insensible. July 20th, 1858.—Wounds healed, and feels quite well; at the exit of ball there is a small nipple-like swelling protruding between the ribs, probably a portion of consolidated lung. July 22nd. —Invalided. 75tli Regiment.—Private Charles Greenfield, set. 25, wounded at Delhi, June 15th, 1857, by a grape shot, weight four ounces, on the left side of the chest. The ball entered through the anterior fold of the axilla, and passed downwards, backwards, and inwards, in a slanting direction, through the left lung, and made its exit apparently between the ninth and tenth ribs, close to the spinous process of the tenth vertebra. The entrance aperture soon healed ; that of exit did not heal for seven months, and for six or seven days portions of his food passed through it, and air from the lung. April 12th, 1858.—The external wounds have healed, but he suffers much from pain in the side, with a little cough, and much purulent expectoration. Oil examination there is dulness on percussion, and occasionally moist rales, but these have existed for some time, and are