GG WOUKDS OF T1IE FACE, either be caused by a wound of tlie optic nerve, or some of the branches of the fifth pair by sympathy. Injuries of the eyeball are frequent in military practice, from gunshot, shell, splinters, and explosions of gunpowder, &c. Weakness of vision, blindness, or amaurosis, often result from injury or contusion of the parts around the eye, and especially when the eye itself is hurt. When the concussion produces rupture of the retina, or displacement of the crystalline lens, extravasation takes place into the eye, followed by great pain in the ball itself, and likewise around the orbit, with acute inflammation, and occasionally permanent amaurosis, or complete disorganization of the eyeball. When the eyeball is wounded so that the humours escape, and the iris protrudes, very violent inflammation of all the structure frequently ensues, causing total loss of vision; or, if the inflam- matory symptoms have been subdued, still, opacity of the cornea, or adhesion of the iris, with closing of the pupil, may follow. The treatment in all severe wounds of the eye is antiphlo- gistic ; when there is any tendency to the effusion of lymph in the eye, careful administration of calomel and opium ought to be employed. Should the iris protrude, it ought to be re- turned if possible, or cut off with a pair of scissors, and the applications usually employed in disease of the eyes are to be adopted. Wounds of the ear are not of frequent occurrence, and are to be treated on the same principle as those of the scalp; the detached piece, when resulting from a sabre cut, is to be replaced and retained in its place by the interrupted suture. Gunshot wounds of the mastoid process, or neighbourhood of the ear, generally produce deafness, suppuration, and caries of auditory canal, with loss of the small bones, or paralysis of this side of the face from injury to theportio dura; or the inflamma- tion may extend to the brain and cause death. Deafness to a greater or less extent occasionally takes place from a ball having- passed close to the car. The mastoid process may be fractured, and there may be great depression externally without any corresponding injury to the internal table of the skull, on account of the large mastoid cell intervening between the two tables of the skull.