GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CIIEST. 81 tected in the right lung, or along the supposed track of the ball. 18th.—Discharged to St. Mary's Barracks, to await invaliding documents. 31st.—Readmitted, complaining of pain in the chest generally, but more especially over the left side of tno chest, and also slightly over the seat of the old wound; respi- ration hurried; expectoration abundant and muco-purulent ; percussion clear over the right side of the chest; vocal reso- nance in the inferior lobe of the right lung, and along the track of the hall; dulness on percussion in left subclavicular region ; respiratory murmur diminished, and crepitation distinctly au- dible ; pulse strong, 86, and respiration 44 in the minute; cough very severe. Was cupped and blistered, and antimonials administered. September 8th.—The exit wound opened, and several small pieces of bone were taken away; complained of great pain, especially in the left side of the chest; pulse 80; respiration 28 per minute; wound discharging freely; healthy pus and air escaped on expiration and on coughing. 9tli.—Felt very weak, and there was a very foetid smell from his breath; expectoration very profuse and purulent, and of a disagreeable odour. These symptoms continued up to the 20tli, when they began to improve, and he seemed somewhat better, and was able to get out of bed and go about, although still troubled with cough and purulent expectoration, and the discharge from the wound posteriorly had almost ceased. 27th.—Was feverish; pulse high; tongue coated; had a persistent pain in the left subclavicular region, and could not expectorate so freely as before. The foetor of his breath and sputa returned as bad as ever, and the matter expectorated was of a thick, dark, stringy character. There was dulness on percussion over the whole of the left side of the chest. On the right side of the chest the percussion was clear, with only a few mucous rfdes, but the patient was in too exhausted a state to be accurately examined. All these symptoms continued much the same, and he gradually became weaker, and on the 9th October the dis- charge from the wound still remained very profuse and fetid, and air escaped freely from it on coughing. He gradually sank, and died outlie 15th October, 1859, one year and eleven months after the wound.