GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING 22 two smaller portions; one of them is of the whole thickness, and the other of the inner table only. From Me Gifford, an Indian Case, page 33. The following very interesting specimen shows the extent to which necrosis may proceed before it causes death. The skull appears as if it had been indented and moulded by the fingers. No. 2910.—This cranium shows large irregular depressions and various degrees of deficiency of its parietes, in some places comprehending both tables, and in others the external only, and chiefly affecting the left side. The exposed surface of the inner table is quite smooth and compact, as well as the margins of the depressions. This was the effect of various exfoliations succeeding to a sabre wound of the left parietal bone. The patient was an African negro, with occasional violent paroxysms. Disease of four years5 duration. I may also mention the following case,* although it was not the result of a gunshot wound:—No. 3176.—A cast in wax ex- hibiting a greater extent of disease affecting the bones of the cranium than perhaps any other case on record, without in any way producing injury to the general health or cerebral functions. The greater portion of the vault of the skull has been removed, and there does not appear to have been the least production of new bone; still the brain in this case, when last examined by me, was, to a great extent, protected by the effusions of fibrinous matter and consolidation of parts, so as at some places to pre- vent the pulsation of the brain from being felt, as has been more fully insisted upon at page 31. The disease—necrosis and caries—commenced in J. Blackman, a sailor, in 1845, the result of a fall on board ship. He is now (1859) in robust health, suffering but little inconvenience from the extent of disease. He is at present an orderly in Melville Hospital, Chatham, and has recently got married. He is never affected with head symptoms, except when he indulges too freelv in stimulating liquors.t * This case has been described by Dr. Drummond, D. I. G., Navy. f Every case here recorded is the result of a gunshot wound, except when stated to the contrary. The descriptions of the preparations are in general alone given, with a short notice of the result of the case; reference can be made, when re- quired for further details, to the Museum Catalogue.