GUNSHOT WOUNDS OE THE ABDOMEN 10.2 toms lead to the supposition of laceration of one ot the viscera, the only thing to be done during the state of collapse is to keep the patient quiet and to use means to lessen the effects of the shock upon the system; and should the patient survive this period, peritoneal inflammation must he guarded against. Four cases of simple flesh wounds arrived from India, and were discharged to duty. In one case the hall was reported by the surgeon of the regiment to he lodged somewhere above PouparUs ligament; profuse haemorrhage followed, which stopped of itself. In another case the hall entered below the ensiform cartilages on the right side and passed out at the extremity of the last floating rib on the right side. The third was a slight wound from grape shot. Contused and Non-penetrating Wounds. Two cases were admitted from India, and were sent to duty. 64th Regiment.—Private James Falloon,* wounded at Cawn- pore, November 28th, 1857, by a musket ball, which entered two inches below the ensiform cartilage on the right side, and at the margin of the cartilage of the false ribs, and passed downwards and backwards, and was cut out opposite the extremity of the last floating rib. lie vomited florid blood, according to his own statement, at the time; there was no external bleeding. The ball passed behind the ribs, and there is little doubt that the peritoneum was slightly wounded, and probably the diaphragm. August 18th, 1858.—Wound healed. Duty. 35th Regiment.—Private John Lowe, set. 39, wounded Janu- ary 25th, 1857. The ball entered the abdomen on a line with the margins of the ribs, and near their angles; it was extracted shortly after through an incision made in the gastric region, it having lodged beneath the skin in that locality; no discolor- ation of the integuments between the entrance of the ball and where it was cut out was at any time perceptible to mark its course; he vomited blood at the time; had not any external * Noticed by Assistant-Surgeon Cliaumont, Rifle Brigade, in the ‘ Edinburgh Monthly Journal ’ for December, 1858.