246 TRANSPORTATION OP SICK AND WOUNDED. In our army at the present time the wheel conveyances now in general use are spring waggons and carts. Ambulances.—Those now in use are covered waggons, on springs, fitted up so as to accommodate eight men, two in a recumbent position and three sitting up in the front and thice behind, vide ‘Army Medical Report/ p. 69, published in 1859. Ambulances are an admirable means of conveyance for sick and wounded. Still, they are capable of improvement in some minor details. In some cases the ordinary baggage waggon might be used or adapted for the purpose of ambulances, when required. In the Peninsular war it was by carts that the greater proportion of sick and wounded were carried to the hospitals in the rear, and few were carried on the backs of mules. IV.—Hospital Transport:—Hospital Steamships “Mauri- tius ” and “ Melbourne,” equipped for service in China. A brief description of the general arrangements for the accommodation of the sick provided in each ship may be seen in the ‘ Statistical and Sanitary Reports of the Army Medical Department for the year 1859/ page 337. These two ships were fitted up under the immediate superin- tendence, and everything done at the recommendation or sug- gestion, of the Director-General and the officers attached to the Medical Board; and from what I have seen of them myself, and heard from those who have served on board of them, they are constructed on the best and most approved plan that can be devised in the present day for the comfort and convenience of sick and wounded on board ship. These two ships were fitted up expressly for the last war in China in 1860. W. M. Muir, M.D., C.B., Inspector-General and Principal Medical Officer of the Expeditionary Army during the last war in China, in his report (vide ‘ Statistical, Sanitary, and Medical Reports of the Army Medical Department for 1860/ page 375, who is an officer of great experience, remarks—“the unspeak- able advantages to an army in active service of being attended by hospital-ships of the size and equipment of the “Mauritius”