13 COMPRESSION. tare of some blood-vessel, which will lead to extravasation and compression. Or when a fracture or effusion of blood has taken place, a severe concussion is also, in many cases, likely to have been received to the brain ; so that the symptoms of both these states are most frequently observed to be present in the same case, sometimes those of concussion, and sometimes those of compression predominating. Frequently the case is one at first of distinct concussion, followed, after some hours, by ex- travasation of blood, and when, after several days, the compres- sion is caused by the secretion of pus. Compression may cause death immediately from coma, or from the effects of inflammation in the injured part, or the patient may gradually recover, with or without the removal of the cause of pressure. The treatment consists in the removal of the cause of com- pression, when possible, and the prevention of the advance of inflammatory symptoms. There is a state which has received the name of irritation of the brain, and which is said to be frequently found conjoined with laceration of the cerebral substance; it sometimes exists separately, but usually supervenes upon and complicates those of concussion and compression. The patient lies in a semi- unconscious state, but is capable of being roused, and answering questions usually in a peevish, irritable manner; he moans and tosses about in bed with his arms and legs; features contracted, and as if suffering great pain; face pale; pulse slow, and skin cool. He is sometimes seized with convulsions, or violent fits of delirium, which terminate in coma, and rapidly proves fatal. The treatment to be adopted is antiphlogistic, and after the bowels have been freely opened, an opiate frequently induces sleep and quiets the delirium; but opium must be administered with great caution in all injuries of the head. Inflammation of the brain and its membranes, in some cases, comes on very rapidly, and in a most acute form; in others, very slowly and gradually, and is mixed up with the symptoms of compression. On examination after death, the brain is found to be very vascular, and shows a number of bloody points, on making a section, and occasionally softened at some parts, in cases of a chronic character. The arachnoid is redder at dif-