87 GUNSnOT WOUNDS OP THE CHEST. is to be attributed to an accidental attack of pneumonia uncon- nected with the wound altogether. It is also remarkable that the inflammation should have attacked the sound lung, and not the one already in a state of disease. In whatever manner the fatal result is to be explained, there can be little doubt that the wound in the chest influenced, in a most serious and baneful manner, the last fatal attack of pneumonia terminating in gangrene of the lung.* 78th Regiment.—Private Walter Knox, wounded at Lucknow, October 29th, 1857,, by a musket ball, which struck him on the right side of the chest, near the nipple; the wound sloughed, and some pieces of bone exfoliated, leaving the respiration much impaired. The man stated that he was struck by a portion of shell, and that for three days after receiving the wound he expectorated blood. He was admitted into hospital at Gravesend from the ship “Argo” in the last stage of debility. A large abscess had formed, extending from the nipple to nearly the crest of the ilium, with numerous openings, through some of which the fractured ends of the broken ribs and the points of the false ribs protruded. On the post-mortem examination it Avas found that there was no cicatrix or trace of injury to the lung in the position of the wound, but that the lower and posterior portions of the right lung were a mass of disease, studded with tubercles in different stages, with several cavities, varying from the size of an acorn downwards. There was no communication between the cavity of the thorax and the wound, nor with the abdomen; but the peritoneum was generally much thickened with adhesions, and that portion corresponding with the seat of the abscess was almost of a cartilaginous texture, and divided by the knife with much difficulty. Body reduced to nearly a skeleton; the wound with the sinuses extended from the nipple to the crest of the ilium; the ribs on either side were detached from the lower portion of the sternum, and on the right side the fractured ends and also the points of the false ribs protruded through the skin. Heart large; pericardium contained * It is to be regretted that there is no record of the early treatment in these cases of perforating gunshot wounds of the thorax, as to whether venesection was prevalent to a great, or only to a moderate extent. Still, I am inclined to think that it was not resorted to. In the case of O’Neill no venesection was employed.