4 GUNSHOT WOUNDS IN GENERAL. very great, and in some cases most appalling, and is indicative of the amount of injury receivedj still, the amount of shock is not, in every case, a diagnostic indication ot the severity of the wound, as much depends upon the constitution and nerve of the soldier. When a wound is received in a fleshy part, it may not he perceived at the moment of the excitement of a battle, and even a limb may he carried away without the man being conscious of it. In general, after every gunshot wound there is more or less inflammation, swelling, and tension of parts. In some cases this is often very severe, followed by extensive suppuration in the track of the ball, and also in the neighbouring parts. The sloughs are separated, from the tenth to the twentietli day, from the track ot the ball, and at this period consecu- tive haemorrhage is liable to occur, which may suddenly prove fatal, and is more dangerous than the primary haemorrhage, from the difficulty of arresting it and from the patient being weakened from tedious suppuration. Occasionally a large, round shot, or more usually a portion of shell, may lodge in the hip, without producing any very large wound or causing much deformity. Musket balls, striking the shaft of the long bone, or even a flat bone, generally fracture and split it, to a greater or less extent, according to the force with which they are propelled, and the angle at which they strike. Occasionally a ball is flattened and thrown off without causing fracture; sometimes it only produces an indentation, or a par- tial fracture, and passes out or remains lodged. The new conical ball splits and comminutes much more extensively than the old round ball, rendering the chances of saving life much less. Occasionally a ball is lodged in the cancellated structure of the head of a long bone, without causing any splinters. In the late war with Russia, the conical ball was not found to be often split on the sharp crist of the bone, but almost always splin- tered the bone against which it struck, although there is a case, of which the preparation is in the museum at Netley, that occurred in the 19tli Regiment, where the ball was split on entering the cranium. Treatment.—Superficial gunshot wounds require to be treated