162 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. the liver was soft and friable, and easily broken up. Weight of liver, 5 lbs. 3 oz. After a minute and careful examination, and tracing the veins of the left leg through the abdomen, no sign of inflammation could be detected. It is, nevertheless, the opinion of some pathologists, that in the great majority of cases some trace of inflammation in the veins may be found, and when they cannot, the veins affected are supposed to be so small or so obscure that they are overlooked. Further, that pus globules have been de- tected in the blood of the pyemic, and even in the blood of animals which have died from the effects of pus injected into the veins. The globules of pus have only once been disco- vered, so that pus globules seem in a great majority of cases to be rapidly destroyed after entering the circulation. This throws considerable doubt on the view that the pus globules become arrested in the capillaries in consequence of their size, and thus establish numerous foci of inflammation. Rokitansky also ex- presses his opinion very strongly against it. He considers that pyemia occurs not uncommonly as a primitive affection, that is to say, that pus is actually formed in the blood itself in consequence of certain changes of a chemico-vital nature. This is well seen in globular vegetations in the heart. This supposi- tion accounts for eases occasionally occurring in which there are multiple abscesses, yet no source of purulent infection can be discovered.—Donor, Dr. Williamson. No. 2946 shows the tibia much enlarged, and presenting a cavity in its substance, from which a sequestrum has been de- tached, with several cloacae. From a case of gunshot injury. The preparation No. 2949 shows a gunshot fracture of the upper third of the tibia. The bone was comminuted, and the fracture united, but with some displacement. A portion of the crest of the bone appears to have been on the point of being necrosed. The external margin of the centre of the fibula is carious. Fracture of the Fibula only. Four fractures of the fibula were admitted, of which three haA e been sent to duty, and one invalided. One only was caused by grape shot, and three by musket ball. All were healed on arrival.