SABRE AND BAYONET diately below the other. Death twenty-two days after the injury. Captain G— was attacked by some of the natives of Peshawur when taking an evening ride outside the cantonments in 1849. He received a sabre cut on the back of the head, and another on the right hand, severing the fore and next fingers, also on the left wrist through the ulna, besides several flesh wounds. Foui days before death he became feverish, and symptoms of inflam- mation and effusion of pus on the brain made their appearance. In the following preparation the cut is seen to have gone completely through both tables for some considerable distance, and then the fracture or fissure seems to have extended much further. No. 2907.—Skull cleft by a sabre cut through the occipital and parietal bones. In the next specimen, No. 2908, cranium exhibiting an extensive wound of the occipital bone, supposed to have been made by a cutting instrument. It seems to have been a blow from above downwards, cutting clean through the occipital bone for several inches, and then the fracture to have extended further from the force of the blow. Many cases of fractures may also be classed with punctured, or what are called starred fractures, where numerous fissures radiate on every side of the depressed portion of bone, and some sharp spiculse either project into or are driven entirely into the brain. In some cases of punctured fractures with a small, narrow-pointed weapon, it is necessary to cut down upon the fracture and ascertain the exact condition of parts, and also to find out under w'hat circumstances the injury was received and the kind of instrument which caused it. Wounds of the Orbit, etc., are always very dangerous on account of the close proximity of the brain, and are usually produced by any sharp-pointed weapon, such as a bayonet or sword, by a walking-eane or tobacco-pipe, penetrating the thin superior wall of the orbit and entering the brain, causing inflammation and abscess. The orbital plate of the frontal bone and the ethmoid are very thin and fragile, and the anterior lobes of the brain can easily be reached either from the nostrils or orbits, and a wound in either of these situations may even take place without exciting the suspicion of the surgeon that any serious injury has been inflicted, until symptoms of inflammation of the