61 IIEHNIA CEREBRI. W hen sloughing occurs it may, on some occasions, he admis- sible to use the knife, hut escharotics should not be employed. The protruded part in true hernia of the brain is formed of disorganized cerebral substance mixed with blood and lymph. On some occasions a coagula projects, with a thin coating of brain, which resembles the true hernia cerebri. Out of eleven cases recorded in the Museum Catalogue where the trephine was employed, seven were followed by hernia of the brain, and out of these seven, two recovered ; as cases of fungus or hernia of the brain, see J. Evans, J. Collins, and T. Cain, at pages 16, 39, and 47, etc., and also the following. No. 3481.—Drawing showing gunshot wound of the head.— It shows exceedingly well the appearance of a fungous tumour arising from the brain; it was cured by pressure in fifteen days. Private Thomas Deverill, ret. 24, 61st Regiment. Fracture of right parietal bone, with depression. Was hit with a musket ball on the 13th January, 1849, at Chillianwallah, which caused a small wound in the scalp and fracture of the right parietal bone near its anterior and inferior angle; the wound was dressed with adhesive plaster. 16th.—A T incision was made to see the state of the fracture and as a means of abstracting blood. 5xvj were allowed to flow from the wound. The bone was found to be very much depressed and comminuted. About 4 o'clock, p.m., he was more drowsy, and on being roused he appeared morose, and complained of the same kind of pain and intolerance of light. The operation of trephining was had recourse to; the head of the trephine was placed more than half above the fracture, and a circular piece of bone was removed. The dura mater and middle meningeal artery were wounded by the depressed bone, and the artery poured out bright, scarlet-coloured blood in a continuous stream, ascending seven or eight inches; it was restrained by pressure of the fin- gers. Three loose portions of bone were taken away, and the depressed portion elevated to nearly the same level as the sur- rounding. The operation being finished, the meningeal artery was allowed to bleed to the extent of 3xij. The lips of the wound were brought together, and slight pressure with a pad and bandage was used. He went to bed without assistance, and expressed himself free from pain or headache. 31st.—Within