COMPOUND FRACTURE OP EEMUR. 141 ing and profuse discharge, and constitutional disturbance. He remained in bed until May 6th, when he embarked for Bom- bay, when the wound was still discharging a good deal. Four large and several smaller pieces of bone have come away at different times; abscesses have frequently formed on the poste- rior aspect of the thigh; and on one occasion a large piece of bone was removed from it. Fort Pitt, May 4th, 1858.—General health good; fracture firmly united, but the bone is curved out- wards ; the original wound has never entirely closed, and there are now two sinuses leading down to bare bone. 18th.—The necrosed portion of bone, about one inch in length, was re- moved ; the limb was two and a quarter inches shorter than its fellow; on standing up, the great toe and next one touched the ground, and the heel is raised three and a quarter inches. 29th. —Wounds nearly healed; can bear his weight upon the limb, and walk about, with the aid of a stick, without crutches. On the whole, he has a very useful limb, much preferable to any artificial one. 30th.—Invalided. In the next case there was a double fracture, both firmly united, the ball still remaining in; the limb is two and a half inches shortened; still, he walks so well that he has been sent to modified duty 64th Regiment.—Private Patrick Carty, set. 28, wounded at Lucknow by a musket ball, which struck him, while in the erect position, on the right thigh, on its posterior surface, about five inches below the superior spinous process of the ilium; the ball, it is stated, still remains in the thigh. After being wounded he remained at the village of Amoo for three days, with his thigh bound up tightly (he states) with short splints placed round the limb; on the fourth day he was removed to hospital at Cawnpore. Eighteen days after the wound was inflicted he had a long splint put on, and was placed on a hard mattress; he remained in hospital at Cawnpore twenty-four days, and was then carried to Allahabad, the journey occupying eight days; he remained in hospital at Allahabad for one month, and was then conveyed to Calcutta in a steam vessel; he re- mained in hospital at Calcutta for two months and eight days; the splint was removed after he had been in hospital at Calcutta one month; and on his embarking for England, on January 8th, 1858, he was able to move about tolerably well with the aid of