0 9*) EXCISION OF THE .■» .-w Resection of tiie Shaft of the Humerus. The following preparation, where three quarters ot an inch of the shaft of the humerus were resected in a case of comminuted fracture eight months after the injury. Death from pyaemia one month after the operation:—No. 2920. Humerus exhibiting a gunshot fracture below its centre. The end of the lower portion is healthy. There is a superficial exfoliation of a large portion of the outer layer of the shaft of the superior fragment, and also of the medullary canal.—Donor, C. Reade, Staff Surgeon, 95th Regiment. —Private Thomas, aet. 22 years, when on duty in the trenches before Sebastopol, was struck by a fragment of shell on the left arm, producing a compound comminuted fracture of the humerus, an inch below its centre, August 18th, 1855. On admission into Brompton Hospital, February 18th, 185G, the wound had healed, but re-opened on April 18th. At this time firm liga- mentous union had taken place between the ends of the fractured bone, and a false joint had been established. On April 22nd he was in an excellent state of health. It was determined to per- form the usual operation for effecting union of the shaft of the bone. A free and deep incision was made in the outer aspect of the left arm, about an inch below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and carrying it perpendicularly downwards to a level with the condyles, dividing, amongst other muscles, the outer belly of the triceps. Owing to the obliquity of the fracture, and the strength of the ligamentous structure holding the bones together, some difficulty was experienced in passing the knife through the ends of the bones. After further dissection, three- quarters of an inch were sawn off with a metacarpal saw from the fractured ends. There was but little blood lost during the operation, though several ligatures had to be applied. The patient was under the influence of chloroform. Some consider- able time after, he was removed to his ward, and reaction had taken place; profuse haemorrhage occurred from the wound, probably from deeply-seated muscular branches, but was stopped eventually by the application of ice. The limb was placed in a gutta-percha splint. On the evening of the following day the