COMPOUND FRACTURE OE FEMUR. 139 in hot than in very cold climates, especially when great atten- tion is paid to cleanliness. These fractures are, however, in my opinion, as severe as could he caused by any Russian hall, viz., in McCarter’s case, produced by round shot, and Carty’s, where there was a double fracture.* And, looking at these cases, it appears to be still an open question as to the necessity of im- mediate amputation in all cases of gunshot fractures of the femur. When the fracture is close to the knee, or if the bone is split into the joint, amputation will be necessary; when the bone is simply fractured, and not splintered to any great extent, the ball having traversed the limb, it seems to be advisable, under favorable circumstances as to after-treatment, to try and save the limb at whatever part of the bone the fracture has taken place; when the femur is more extensively shattered, recourse must, of necessity, be had to amputation. A great deal must also depend upon the kind of projectile : when from round shot, there is generally great comminution, and little hope can be entertained of saving the limb; but recoveries under such unfavorable circumstances do occasionally take place, as illustrated by the case of McCarter, 64th Regiment. The fact that three men were sent to modified duty shows that they must have retained very useful limbs, so as to be able to carry messages and to act as orderlies; more than three might have been sent, as far as the condition of the leg was concerned. The case of Carty, 64th Regiment, is interesting as showing a double fracture, both firmly united, and the ball supposed to be lodged. Ashworth had recovered with such a strong useful leg, that, if it had not been for the shortening of the limb, he might have gone to his duty in the ranks. Hewitt had also a very useful limb, and would have been sent to modified duty if he had not been close upon ten years’ ser- vice, when he could have claimed his discharge. Collins also retained a very useful limb, and could walk a long distance with a stick; he was discharged by Horse Guards’ order, after having been sent to modified duty. Burke has also a very good limb, and is at modified duty. * Compare these cases with preparation No. 2939, Plate VII, fig. 1, p. 148, where the fracture was produced by two minie bullets.