248 TRANSPORTATION OP SICK AND WOUNDED. and from my experience there I can only say that I entirely agree with W. M. Muir, M.D. & C.B., & I.G., viz., that all sanitarium, at the Cape or elsewhere will never he of advan- tage to the army—I mean those half-way places between India and China. Australia has also been proposed as a sanitarium ; but however good the climate may be, it appears to me that such a scheme w'ould never be of the slightest good to sick or wounded soldiers from any of our colonics. I do not, however, allude to the hill stations in India as sanitariums and others of our colonies,wdiicli are generally of verygreatadvantage. At the Cape I found it almostimpossible to keep the really sick in good spirits and contentment, even when they had every comfort, accom- modation, and a good climate for the cure of disease; also, that the convalescents out of hospital wrere very irregular, and caused great trouble to the commanding officer. According to my experience, when an officer or soldier is really sick on foreign service, send him home at once, and not to an intermediate sani- tarium ; for the best sanitarium is home. England is a grand wrord for a sick soldier on foreign service. It is also well known that when soldiers of different regiments are brought together into one depot, they are much more difficult to keep in good order than the same number of men belonging to one regiment, because they are without comrades, and there is a want of esprit de corps, &c.; and some take to drinking, and consequently disease is the result. V. New Railway Hospital-carriage. In a paper on the hospital arrangements at the Camp of Chalons, published in the ‘Recueil de Memoires de Medecine Militaire ’ for 1859, M. Jules Perier, Medecin-en-chef, gives the following description of an hospital-carriage, fitted up for the conveyance of the sick by the railway from the camp to Chalons, in the hospital of which town the more serious cases occurring in the force were treated (vide f Statistical and Sanitary Report of the Army Medical Department for the year 1859/ page ^ a waggon could, with- out difficulty, be fitted up for the accommodation of patients,