GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN 108 seated a little to the right of the spinous processes of the fourth lumbar vertebra; and on dissecting down to the arches it was evident that the ball had entered between the arches of the third and fourth lumbar vertebra, fracturing their arches and passing along the third lumbar, making its exit between the transverse process of the second and third. The arches of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, which had probably been broken, were now anchylosed. It will be remembered that the ball struck him whilst he was crawling along the ground, and it took an upward direction. It entered to the right side of the spinous process of the fourth lumbar vertebra, passed behind the body of the third lumbar and spinal cord, and emerging between the transverse process of the second and third lumbar on the left side, entered the left or descending colon and voided per anura. For some weeks after the injury faecal matter passed by the primary wound, but at last this entirely healed. For a few weeks, although suffering pain, he was free from any faecal fistula. An abscess then formed in the left groin, which broke and continued open to the end; through this faeces continually passed. Both kidneys were very large, white, and granular. The connective tissues of the body generally were infiltrated with scrum. In the case from which preparation No. 1270 (page 110,- Plate IV, fig. 1) was taken, the wound is likewise on the left side, and the colon was wounded at a part where it is entirely covered by peritoneum. This makes the fifth case of wound of the large intestine detailed in this Report, and in that of the wounded from the Crimea. It is worthy of remark that in all these five cases the artificial anus is on the left side, and almost precisely in the same situa- tion, with the exception of the one, No. 1270. In Hogan there was a partial fracture of the ilium. In Beehan there was an injury of the vertebra, and probably also of the kidney. In McCartney and Henderson there was no such complication. Private Henderson was under my care in 1844. As already stated, all these five cases of wounds of the large intestines, and also the three of the diaphragm, are on the left side. This at first sight would lead to the supposition that the left side of the body was more exposed in action than the right,