XX INTRODUCTION. Hospitals, then stationed at Portsmouth, originated and strongly advocated the collection of specimens of morbid ana- tomy, for the use of the medical officers of the army. In 1816, Sir James M'Gregor, now Director-General, made great efforts to promote this very desirable object. Still little was done until the conclusion of the Peninsular war, when the small number of preparations then in existence were transferred from the York Hospital at Chelsea to Chatham. Ever since, under the fostering care of Sir James M‘Gregor, Bart., and the subse- quent Director-Generals, the collection has quietly and gradually increased by the persevering energy of the medical officers; and the Museum may now be looked upon as the only one of the kind to be found in any country, and is not only of the greatest interest to the military surgeon, but also to the profes- sion generally. It differs in every respect from any other collection in this country on account of the greater number of the preparations having been procured from patients who had served in all the various colonies where British troops were quartered. There are also detailed histories of the greater number of the specimens preserved in the MS. catalogues. The whole of the pathological preparations were arranged by me, and a catalogue printed in 1815, by order of Government, and dedicated to the Bight Honorable Sidney Herbert, M.P., Secretary for War, by the medical officers of the army. Preface : “ This Catalogue (of which one copy was sent to every regiment and medical officer in the service) was intended to communicate to the officers of the department, in as few words as possible, the natures and numbers of the preparations in the collection, which has been effected principally by their zeal, and thus to enable them to understand what yet requires to be sup- plied by their exertions.” Several fasciculi of plates in elephant folio have been published from time to time to illustrate the contents of the Museum, the last number of which was pub- lished under my superintendence in 1850, nine years after the preceding one. During a campaign or action, the number and class of wounds and injuries are very different from what is seen in civil life, and also the mode of treatment, which has, m manv in- stances, to be conducted according to circumstances, but espe-