NECROSIS. 21 very much more severe, and he was insensible during twenty- one days; his head was shaved and kept constantly cool. He gradually recovered, and joined the depot of his regiment in inchester in June. He stated that on his way to Winchester he received a stroke, from the handle of a box, on the top of his head, from the cut inflicted by which a large quantity of matter burst out. The day following his arrival in Winchester he went into hospital, where he remained until he was invalided to Chatham. He stated that for two months he was completely deaf in both ears, and that he had been occasionally deaf since then. His sight had not been affected; had always the use of his limbs, with perfect sensibility in them ; bowels and urinary organs remained unaffected; was somewhat emaciated, but able to walk about. On examining the bone by means of a probe, it was found bare over a space of three inches in diameter on the top of his head. There was a very copious purulent dis- charge, and the pain was said to be very great. On the 21st March, 1856, a large sequestrum having become loose, the re- quisite incisions were made, and the trephine was applied, and a large mass of necrosed bone, consisting of the external table of both parietal bones, were removed, and a large quantity of mat- ter evacuated. The skin, which had become inverted, and formed adhesions to the neighbouring parts, having been dis- sected off, there was found little shrinking or loss of integu- ments. About three inches above the left ear there was a small opening in the skin, from which matter had occasionally been discharged; several sequestra, varying from one eighth to an inch and a half in length, and of a spicular form, were dis- charged from the aperture. At the date of his being invalided he was in good health, and could sleep on either side. His functions were healthy. The wound on the top of the head was rapidly closing, but a purulent discharge continued from the opening above the left ear, where, it appeared, some necrosed bone still remained. No. 3626.—Necrosed portions of the bone of the cranium, about two inches in length and one and a half in breadth, con- sisting of the whole thickness of the skull; the lambdoidal suture runs through its centre. The piece is composed of part of the occipital and part of the parietal bones. There are also