MISCELLANEOUS WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 183 which struck him on the external part of the thigh, producing very extensive laceration. On the second day he was brought to hospital, and the usual dressings applied. On the fifth day a long, narrow passage was discovered by the probe, seeming to run nearly the whole length of the vastus externus muscle. On cutting into this, three pieces of coin (which, from the very curious way in which they were compacted, I thought worthy of being presented to the Director-General of Hospitals) were extracted from the parts. “ This poor fellow, a raw recruit, had no money whatever about him, nor even a pocket to contain it, and fervently pro- tested against his right to this forced loan. He accounted for it by supposing it was carried from the pocket of his comrade, who stood before him in the ranks, and who was killed by the same shot. “ The coins, consisting of two five-franc pieces, were ob- viously first struck by the shot, and carried along by it. For nearly one half of their surfaces the silver pieces adhered closely together; on the other, where the ball had struck their edges, the metal wras flattened out, and somewhat hollowed. In this hollow lay the copper coin, in some degree adapted to the shape of the depression in the larger pieces. “ I cannot omit noticing here a trait strongly illustrative of the mobility of mind which characterises soldiers, and their proneness to superstition and belief in omens, which a surgeon acquainted with their character may often turn to their benefit. “ The part of these two coins which had been flattened out happened to be that on which Napoleon’s head was impressed. From one it was nearly effaced, and on observing this circum- stance to the patient and his comrades, an universal burst of joy echoed through the ward. The young Hanoverian exulted in the share he conceived he personally had of contributing to the downfall of the French Emperor. His health rapidly im- proved, and I have no doubt this simple circumstance had a good effect upon every man who witnessed it.”—Donor, Dr. Guthrie, D.I.G.