AMPUTATIONS. 185 different, secondary amputations being very much more fatal. The causes of this difference between the results of amputation in civil and military life are various. The shock to the system is the chief cause of death after primary amputation, and this is much more severely felt by the civilian than the soldier. The civilian, on receiving an injury demanding amputation, is depressed with the extent of his misfortune, with, perhaps, the ruin of his family before him, whilst the soldier in action has his courage strung to the highest; in many cases to such an extent as not to be aware of the severe injury he has received, which renders his chances of recovery much greater than that of a patient in civil life. The soldier has the advantage over the civilian as to his chance of recovery after a primary amputation, but the case is reversed as to secondary amputation. Should the limb not have been removed shortly after the injury, the soldier is placed in some crowded temporary hospital, or perhaps removed further to the rear, over rough roads, with the fractured ends of the bones producing serious mischief and a fearful amount of pain to the patient, while the civilian is at home stationary with every comfort. The cause of death is also different in primary and secondary amputations. In primary amputations death is usually caused by the shock or exhaustion. In secondary amputations, pysemia, pneumonia, congestion, diarrhoea, or some low form of visceral disease, are amongst the most frequent causes of the fatal termination. There is a greater liability to the occurrence of gangrene of the stump and pysemic poisoning of the blood after amputation for gun- shot wounds, than where the limb has been removed for disease. In the latter the chief cause of death is from tubercidar de- posits in the lungs. The question as to the period at which amputation ought to be performed is now happily considered settled. The experience of every war, and particularly by the labours of Larrey, Guthrie, and Hennen, the advantages of primary over secondary ampu- tation has been fully established. Amongst the Russians during the late war it is stated that there were 3000 amputations.