PENETRATING, PEREORATTNG, OR LACERATING. 131 artery is required to be performed, on account of sloughing ; an example of which is detailed under Ligature of Arteries. Radius and Ulna.—The same remarks are applicable to frac- tures of both bones of the forearm, as to fracture of either of them separately, except that when both bones are fractured, the injury must be looked upon as much more severe. Penetrating, Perforating, or Lacerating the several Structures of the Carpus and Metacarpus. The proportion invalided in these injuries is usually great, which shows their severity, In some cases the ball completely perforates the carpus or metacarpus; in others it strikes the bone in a slanting direction and passes out, producing more or less injury to the bones, tendons, and ligaments, so that in every case there is contraction and rigidity of parts, with dis- tortion, want of power, and otherwise impaired use of the hand and fingers resulting. Whenever it is requisite, forcible exten- sion should be resorted to. The wrist and phalangeal joints are frequently anchylosed as a result of these injuries. In the following case the ball still remained in the fleshy part between the thumb and forefinger, and it was not thought expedient to cut down upon it and remove it, in consequence of its not producing much inconvenience, and also from the patient objecting to the operation, fearing that he might be attacked with lock-jaw, and especially as he was otherwise strong and healthy. 60th Rifles (1st Battalion).—Corporal Denis Bcrgin, set. 30, wounded at Delhi, July 15th, 1857, by a musket ball, which had entered on the posterior surface of the left arm, about two inches above the wrist, passed between the radius and ulna, and made its exit on the anterior surface of the forearm. On July 14th he received another wound from a musket ball in the left hand; the ball entered on the posterior surface between the thumb and forefinger, and still remains in. July 20th, lg58. Wounds healed; has lost considerable power of the finger, and the wrist-joint is anchylosed; the ball is felt be- tween the thumb and forefinger. 21st.—Invalided.