225 SUPERIOR, EXTREMITIES. keep the arm steady, but in the course of a few weeks a little motion should be encouraged. Two cases of excision of this joint arrived from India, and are interesting. In one there had also been a fracture of the humerus, and the arm is now in an extended position, and the motion of the elbow-joint is very limited; in the other, the arm hangs powerless by the side, like a flail, without strength to raise the forearm, and he can only move the thumb and fingers slightly; it is so useless and cumbersome, that he has frequently requested me to amputate the arm; this has not been done, because, when he keeps the arm in a sling, he has still the use of the fingers and thumb. In this case a very large extent of the ends of the bones of the elbow-joint must have been removed, and also the tubercle of the radius, with the attachment of the biceps; the distance between the bones is very great, and there does not appear to be ligamentous matter effused between the bones. The man himself, when out of hospital, does not use the sling; consequently, the arm is so much in his wray that he fell down when under the influence of liquor, and injured it very much. In both these cases the operation was performed by the H incision. The extent of the articular ends of the bones that can be re- moved, compatible with a useful limb, should be such as to allow of free motion between the ends of the bones, so that there can be no fear of their becoming jammed. It appears that about one inch, or one inch and a half, of all the three bones compos- ing the joint, should be always about the extent removed. When only a small extent of the articular ends of the bones is removed, anchylosis is almost certain to be the result, from the extremities of the bones becoming jammed, and preventing free motion even from the first. Partial resection of the shoulder and elbow-joints docs not permit of nearly so much motion as where the entire articular surfaces are removed, and they generally terminate in partial or complete anchylosis, as occurred in a case on which I ope- rated lately; and there is one arrived from India, where the joint is anehylosed, Avith the arm in a straight position, and hanging quite useless by the side, but, as already stated, there Avas also a fracture of the humerus in this instance. 15