SUPPURATION. 15 Suppuration. Contused and lacerated wounds of the scalp, however severe, seldom slough, owing to the great vascularity of the integu- ments, but they give rise to extensive inflammatory suppuration and compression. Very frequently extravasation of blood takes place, which produces a soft, puffy, fluctuating tumour, which is, in most instances, removed by absorption, on the application of discutient lotions. In some cases the sero-sanguineous extra- vasation gives the sensation as if a fracture had occurred, on account of the margin of the contusion feeling hard, and the centre soft and depressed. About a fortnight after the accident, a swelling or tumour is sometimes observed at the site of the injury. Where there is no wound externally, and when a wound does exist, it takes on an unhealthy aspect; on some occasions inflammation comes on in the swelling, and suppuration ensues, requiring the matter to be evacuated. At first, the patient com- plains of general feverish symptoms; later, he becomes deli- rious and comatose. On making an incision into the tumour, unhealthy pus is discharged from between the pericranium and the bone; should the surface of the bone appear to be vascular, and to bleed on being scraped, it is generally considered that the dura mater adheres below, and that the application of the trephine is not necessary. If the bone does not show signs of vascularity, exfoliation, to a greater or less extent, may be ex- pected ; either of the external table alone, or of the whole thick- ness of the skull, should the patient survive the evils resulting from the formation of pus underneath. Suppuration may take place in the same situations as that of extravasation of blood. When the matter is between the dura mater and cranium, a puffy tumour is generally observed corre- sponding to it on the scalp. The dura mater may at once be separated from the bone, and blood effused between them, and after a few days, suppuration may take place, and an abscess form; or inflammation is set up either in the bone or dura mater, or both; in the diploe, or between the pericranium and bone externally, and purulent matter formed.