172 GUNSIIOT WOUNDS, WITH DIRECT PENETRATION The two following preparations, Nos. 2943 and 2944, are very interesting, as showing a perforating gunshot wound through the knee-joint. The ball entered the back part of the joint, and passed directly forwards, and shattered the patella in its exit, followed by recovery and anchylosis. Twenty-six months after the injury the man died at Fort Pitt, of an enor- mous abscess of the liver, the result of previous service in India. No. 2943. Section of a knee-joint, the bones of which are com- pletely anchylosed, and the capsule obliterated. Dense cellular tissue occupies the interspaces of the articular surfaces. No. 2944 (see PI. IX, fig. 1). Section of the preceding knee-joint, in which the soft parts have been removed, showing the cancelli of the femur and tibia, and also of the patella, completely con- tinuous. The patella was irregularly fractured, and the frag- ments are now consolidated by osseous matter, and united to the femur. From Private Edward Marr, aged 35. 20tli Regi- ment.—Was sent home from India in consequence of a gunshot •wound of the left knee-joint, received on October 21st, 1833. Admitted into Fort Pitt, 10th May, 1835. Left knee-joint was anchylosed; there was a cicatrix between the vastus externus and triceps, and another immediately above the superior border of the patella. Muscles of the limb much attenuated. General health very indifferent, being under treatment for disease of the liver, of which he died on May 20th, 1835. On post-mortem exa- mination there was found a large abscess in the right lobe of the liver, which communicated through the diaphragm with the base of the right lung. The sac of the abscess contained six pints of thick pus. The spleen was very much enlarged and softened. The peritoneal cavity contained two pints of turbid serum, -with flakes of lymph floating in it. The following preparation of a severe comminuted fracture of the head of the tibia is interesting as showing the discovery of a second fracture of the tibia, not compound, however, and situated about the middle of the bone. The skin over it showed not the least trace of injury from the fracture. Plow the frac- ture w'as produced is a matter for conjecture. If excision of the joint had been contemplated, this after discovery would have been, at the least, embarrassing. No. 2948.—Compound com- minuted fracture of the head of the left tibia, caused by a shell.