220 EXCISION OE THE inches and a half were removed from the humerus, and yet a most useful arm remained. Esmarch makes the following observation :—It is curious that the operation on the left side seems to give less favorable results than on the right. 6 of 12 died of those resected on the left; 1 out of 7 of those resected in the shoulder on the right side. A similar proportion held good in resections of the elbow, in whom, of those operated upon on the left, 4 in 19, on the right 2 in 20 resections proved fatal. From this, the fatality attending operations on the left arm to that on the right is as 3 to 1; but of course further observations are required to enable conclusions to be deduced.” The following is a primary case of excision of the head of the humerus by one straight incision from India:—Private James McDonald, 79th Highlanders, wounded at Lucknow, March 11th, 1858, by a musket ball, which struck him in the left shoulder, splintering the head and shaft of the humerus to a considerable extent. The ball then passed back- wards and downwards, injuring the lower angle of the scapula, and lodged between that bone and the ribs, from which posi- tion it was extracted. The shattered parts of the head of the humerus and part of the shaft were excised the same day, by one long incision through the anterior part of the deltoid muscle. September 26, 1858.—There is a large cicatrix in front of the shoulder-joint, and a sinus in its centre, leading down to diseased bone. He cannot raise the arm from the side, on account of loss of power over the deltoid. He has been sent to modified duty, December 22nd, 1858. The two following cases of secondary operations are good examples of perforating gunshot wounds through the head of the humerus, followed by anchylosis of the joint, and the track of the ball remaining carious, necessitat ing resection of the head of the bone :— 93rd Regiment.—Private John Frazer, set. 33, seventeen years’ service. Was wounded at Lucknow, March 14th, 1858, by a musket ball, which entered the left shoulder beneath the acromion, and passed backwards, apparently through the liu- meius close to its head. !March 2nd, 18o9.—There is now anchylosis of the shoulder-joint. Much dead bone in frag-