COMPOUND FRACTURE OE THE BONES. 127 32nd Regiment.—Private James Bailey, wounded at Luck- now, September 2nd, 1857, by a round shot, on the left side of the chest, breaking the first and second ribs, and centre of left clavicle, also contusing the shoulder. July 13th, 1858.—The fracture of the clavicle is still ununited; has lost power in the arm, and cannot use the fingers; no pulse can be felt at the wrist, and the left arm is of a lower temperature than the right. August 5th.—Invalided. Compound Fracture of the Bones of the Superior Extremity. Necrosis is not so frequent a result of gunshot fracture of the upper as of the lower extremity. Scapula.—Fractures of the scapula are not dangerous, unless they shatter the neck of the bone, or cause a fissure into the joint. Abscesses are apt to form under the fascia of the back, and require to be laid freely open by incision. Clavicle.—The clavicle is frequently fractured, and sometimes comminuted, and large portions are either taken away at the time, or long after, on account of necrosis; the brachial plexus of nerves and the large vessels in the immediate vicinity are also often injured, causing paralysis and diminished tempera- ture of the superior extremity. Humerus.—Gunshot fractures of the shaft of the humerus are generally of such a severe character as ultimately to incapaci- tate the patient from the duties of a soldier. When the frac- ture takes place through the head or condyle of the humerus, anchylosis of the neighbouring joint is very liable to take place; and great muscular contraction and rigidity of the tendons and ligaments is usually the result, and the fingers be- come bent and contracted (if proper care is not observed during the cure), requiring forcible extension to ameliorate their con- dition, and occasionally to effect a cure. In compound frac- tures of the upper extremity, primary amputation is never resorted to except in very severe and hopeless cases of gunshot wounds. In some cases the fracture remains ununited, and requires surgical interference to effect a cure.