ERACTURE AND COUNTER-ERACTURE. 25 Counter-fractures, or fissures which, occur at a part of the skull distant from the part struck, are often the cause of pres- sure on the brain, either from effusion of blood or from the subsequent formation of matter. These fractures also take place at the base of the cranium, and are without any depres- sion, and are entirely out of the reach of the trephine. Although a counter-fracture of the parietal or temporal bone, produced by a blow on the opposite side, is a very rare occur- rence, this, however (as has just been stated), frequently takes place at the base of the cranium, from a blow or fall on the vertex or back part of the head. Persons falling- from a height or pitched from horseback generally fracture the base of the skull. The fracture in such cases depends upon the weight of the body pressing on the broad base of the skull, and the fissure generally extends from the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, across and between the sphenoid and os frontis, and in some cases it passes into the foramen magnum, or it may take place at any part of the base. It sometimes happens that patients fall from great heights and alight on their feet, when the shock is transmitted through the spine to the base of the skull, causing fracture. In these cases it has been supposed by some surgeons, and by the late Mr. Earle and also by Sir Benjamin Brodie, that fracture of the base of the skull takes place only where the blow operates in such a manner as to impel the occiput forcibly against the atlas, and that the frac- ture is generally found to pass through the occipital bone. Dr. Aran states that the exact line of fracture of the base depends almost entirely upon the part of the skull struck; thus, in violent diffuse blows by a large and heavy hammer, or by falls from great heights, when the blow is re- ceived on the vertex, the middle fossa at the base is fractured; when at the anterior part of the frontal bone, the anterior fossa; and if at the back part of the skull, the fracture takes place in the posterior fossa, with a pressure extending from the part first injured toward the base. It, however, seems to me to be still undecided whether the fissure extends from the upper part of the skull towards the base or, as I am more inclined to imagine, it originates in the base and extends upward in a lateral direc- tion, as on examining skulls that have been fractured in this