218 EXCISION OE THE of the joint, to such an extent as to admit of the shattered fragments being removed, either by the forefinger or strong forceps. When the operation is for disease, the head of the bone can be turned out of its socket, by a slight twist of the arm below. The arm should be held steady, and as much as is deemed necessary should be removed by the saw. The injured or diseased portions having been taken away, the glenoid cavity should be carefully examined, as also the acro- mion and the diseased parts scooped out with gouge or cut off with pliers. The principal vessel requiring ligature is the pos- terior circumflex. The flap should now be let down and the edges stretched, and the arm retained in a sling. Afterwards the joint becomes stiff, or partially anchylosed; still, there is such free play of the clavicle and scapula, and also of the arti- culations below, that a useful and even ornamental extremity remains, instead of a mutilated trunk. The surgeon should not limit himself to one mode of pro- cedure, but trust to his anatomical knowledge and operative skill, and adapt his measures to the peculiarities of the case. Flaps may be made of any form, and the surgeon has the option of cutting in any direction where there is no fear of coming in contact with any large vessel or nerve. Only one case of resection of this joint was admitted from India; but there is another case where a secondary operation was performed at Fort Pitt, in a patient who is returned as a wound of the joint. In the Crimean war the head of the humerus was removed twice as a primary operation during the first period of the war, or that ending March, 1855, and eight times during the second. One of the two first mentioned ended in death, and of the eight subsequent operations only one proved fatal. “ The head of the bone was five times removed as a secondary operation, without a single casualty, all the cases except one making good and comparatively rapid recoveries. In addi- tion to these, there was a case in which the head of the bone and a large portion of the scapula, broken into fragments, were removed/’ “ Out of the total number, then, of 16 cases, 3 deaths took place, or 18-9 per cent. Had this operation not been resorted