18 GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING generally supposed tliat these abscesses are connected with in- flammation of the veins. Mr. Prescott Hewitt states—“ It has never fallen to my lot to see a single instance in which the application of the trephine, under such circumstances, had a successful issue. In every case in which I have seen the operation performed, the patient, not- withstanding the evacuation of the matter, has died of diffuse inflammation of the membranes.” Still lie recommends the use of the trephine, to give the patient the only chance of recovery. “ Purulent infection was observed in fourteen out of the twenty- three fatal cases of scalp wound; and although developed in other injuries, in none is it more frequently so than in those of the head, and that, too, in cases where the injury has appa- rently been of a trivial nature.” The well-known fact that this disease is found especially in injuries involving the osseous system will seem to explain the frequency of the development of this most formidable complica- tion in accidents about the head, where the bones are not only abundantly supplied with cancellous tissue, but where are also found venous canals much larger and much more numerous than in any other part of the skeleton. That no cases of this kind should have fallen under Pott’s notice is surprising, and the more so as Derault and others were, at about the same period, directing the attention of surgeons to this affection, as one of the most common consequences of injuries of the head. It lias been thought by some foreign pathologists that the early application of the trephine made by Pott and other sur- geons, in cases of exposed and contused bone, might, in some measure, seem to explain why these practitioners had not met with more cases of purulent infection in injuries of the head. M. Chassaignac, especially, thinks that the removal, by the trephine, of the contused bone before suppuration lias taken place in its diploe, destroys the source from whence the secondary mischief is, for the most part, derived; but such an explanation can scarcely be admitted as a valid one; for in many cases of purulent infection after amputation we do not find extensive suppuration in the cancellous tissue of the bone; and also in cases in which suppurative inflammation did not exist in the bone previous to the removal of the limb.