161 FRACTURE OF THE TIBIA ONLY. tubercle; the fractured ends have become reunited by very abundant depositions of new bone, especially on the posterior surface. In front there is a deep carious cavity, about two inches in diameter, and the same extent in depth. There is one large splinter on the inner side, which has become perfectly united to both ends of the tibia. In the recent state the whole of the anterior surface of the tibia was exposed, and in most part denuded of periosteum. No. 2947, Plate VII, fig. 4, is an example of a gunshot fracture of the head of the tibia by a musket ball, making its exit on the inner side of the leg, fracturing and comminuting the bone, but not injuring the joint. The fractured portions have reunited, there is a very abundant deposition of new bone around them, and there is a large cavity in the centre, which is in an ulcerated state. Taken from Private Henry Parrer, set. 32, 34th Regiment, an Englishman, by trade a moulder. Total service, fourteen and a half years, chiefly at home, and in the Mediterranean. Always enjoyed good health, and when admitted was a strong-looking man. He was wounded on June 7, 1858, by a musket ball striking the head of the left tibia, making its exit on the inner side of the leg, fracturing and comminuting the bone, but not injuring the joint. Since then he has always been in hospital. Considerable quantities of bone have come away, but without any severe pain or loss of health. On admission three openings existed, through each of which part a large sequestrum could be felt with a probe. December 13, 1858.—Died, nearly six months after the receipt of the wound, from pyemia.—Post- mortem Examination.—Abdomen. A portion of the convex sur- face of the liver adhered very firmly to the diaphragm by recently effused lymph. Corresponding to this portion, on making a section of the liver, a large diffused abscess was found, which contained ten ounces of pus, which was infiltrated through- out this part of the structure of the liver, several bands of which stretched across the sac. There was no defined wall to the abscess, which appeared to have resulted from the coalescing of several minute abscesses. The sac, on being opened, allowed a large quantity of very fetid gas to escape (sulphuretted hydro- gen) . There was a second abscess situated to the right of the other, and of nearly the same size. The rest of the structure of 11