5 GUNSHOT WOUNDS IN GENERAL. ou the ordinary principles of surgery. Immediate dressings and attentions are necessary (if this can be done) in gunshot wounds before the patients are sent to hospital. When the head and neck are wounded, cold-water dressing and a bandage should be applied. When the chest is wounded, a bandage should be placed round the body, and the patient placed on the wounded side. W hen the lateral part of the abdomen is w'ounded, the patient should be placed upon his side, and if it is in the centre, on his back, with his knees bent over a knapsack, and any protruding intestine cleaned and returned. In wounds of the extremities, where no vessel or bone of im- portance is injured, cold-water dressing should be applied. When there is considerable venous haemorrhage, the limb should be raised and a compress applied; a tourniquet should be applied when the bleeding is arterial. When a limb is partly smashed or torn away, a tourniquet should be applied, with the object of arresting the haemorrhage and quieting the shaking of the limb. The shock should be counteracted by the administration of brandy-and-water, to allay the thirst. The period of collapse varies in different cases, which also, in a great measure, deter- mines whether immediate amputation should be resorted to, or to wait for a more favorable opportunity. The arrest of hsemorrhage should be first attended to, and this is to be done by the application of a compress and bandage, or a tourniquet, or some other substitute that may be at hand. All foreign bodies, viz., the ball, splinters of bone, wadding, &c., should at once be removed. Detached pieces of bone should be extracted, but not those that remain attached to the fracture; they should be left until loosened by suppuration. The inflammation and sloughing which occur along the whole track of the ball are to be treated in the first instance with cold applications and rest; and as inflammation, tension, and suppuration take place, fomentations are to be employed, so as to hasten the separation of the slough, with free incisions in the direction of the limb, to lessen the inflammation, tension, and to favour the escape of matter; but poultices should not be resorted to any more than can be avoided; spungio-pilin is,