AMPUTATION OP TIIE 210 parts as liigli as possible, the saw applied, and the separation completed. The second method looks better during its performance, and is done with one continuous cut without removing the knife, and is the course generally adopted. Supposing amputation has to be performed on the right leg, the surgeon grasps the fore part with his left hand, and having ascertained the margins of the tibia and fibula, the point of the knife should be inserted on the posterior margin of the fibula, and carried upwards for about an inch, and then brought across to the inner margin of the tibia (so as to make a small semilunar flap in front), where transfixion should next be made behind the bones, taking care not to get the knife between the tibia and fibula, and a posterior flap formed; the bones are then cleared and sawn across, as in the previous method. The crest of the tibia should also, in the generality of cases, be sawn obliquely off, else it is very liable to cause ulceration of the skin in front, and to become necrosed. A great deal has been said as to the side where the surgeon should stand, and it appears to me to be a matter of indifference whether the outer or inner is selected; but when once the sur- geon has taken up his position, he ought to remain and not change it after having made the flaps, to the other side, to saw the bones. For my OAvn part, however, I prefer standing on the inside on amputating either leg, as the fibula is easier got at and sawn before the tibia. In using the saw, the hand of the surgeon should always be above the level of the blade, and the cutting edge placed obliquely, so as to gain an efficient attitude for sawing the two bones. By standing on the outside it is rather awkward to cut the fibula first, and obliges the surgeon to depress his hand to a great extent. But, in reality, with an operator of moderate dexterity, it is of no great importance whether the small bone is sawn across before the larger or not. When the amputation is very high, it is necessary to see that the saw is of sufficient breadth, as the tibia in this situation is of considerable thickness. When the bones are sawn separately it sometimes happens that the fibula is left a little longer than the tibia; this should be carefully avoided, for the projection will not afterwards admit of pressure on the stump. In cases of amputation close to the knee-joint, it has been proposed to re-