GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING 40 soon became insensible and comatose, and died on the 22nd. The post-mortem examination shoAvcd the dura mater to be much lacerated, and for some distance in a sloughy state. The fungus had, in jn’oat measure, receded, and the brain substance corresponding to the fracture, and beneath the fungus, looked like dirty, thick, pulpy matter, interspersed with black spots of extravasated blood. A large abscess existed in the anterior lobe of the right hemisphere of the brain. The whole external surface of this hemisphere was covered with a coating of thick purulent matter. No. 2903.—H. Scribbens, Royal Artillery, set. 23, wounded on the 7th June, admitted at the Castle 14th June, with a severe laceration of the scalp by shell. The bone was denuded, but to no great extent. On the 23rd it was noticed that his memory was impaired, and he was very stupid, and complained of much pain in the head, with dilatation of the pupils, and he had had several attacks of rigors. The bone felt as if fractured to the probe, and an incision was made so as to examine it. The indentation felt was found to be the parietal frontal suture. A very small portion of one of inden- tations was loose, and was removed, and the flaps replaced. On the following day, however, matter mixed with air bubbles was observed to be welling up between the bones at each pulsation of the heart, producing a clicking sound; and as the head symptoms were more urgent, the application of the trephine was resorted to. A portion of the internal table was found to be depressed and detached, the dura mater inflamed, but entire. On the 2Gth, jaundice and fever had set in, and he died on the 1st July. Post-mortem examination discovered a large abscess in the centre of the right hemisphere of the brain, communi- cating with the wound, and the surface of the hemisphere coated with pus. No. 2904.—J. Perry, 97th Regiment, act. 19, wounded 7tli July, was admitted at Castle on the 16th of July, when a depressed fracture of the occipital bone was found to exist, situate in the median line, and a foreign body was felt by the probe to be movable, just inside the skull. The regimental surgeon re- ported that he had suffered from intermittent fever, with fre- quent relapses. On the 19th July it was determined to remove