p IIU SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 191 vide, scapula, and first rib extensively affected with disease, similar to that exhibited in the preparation of the humerus. The cancellous structure appeared disorganized, dark, spongy, and soft, and filled with a dark-brown fluid (which was not found in the humerus when removed), in which it appears that the bony structure was gradually becoming, as it were, dis- solved, but there was no attempt at formation of new bone around, as in the arm. The two succeeding preparations from two soldiers of the same regiment, who received compound comminuted fracture of both bones of the forearm, at Inkerman, November 5tli, 1854. Amputation at the centre of the arm was immediately performed. Necrosis followed in both cases, and amputation at the shoulder- joint was performed on both patients, July 25th, 1855, eight months after the primary operations. The necrosis in the preceding preparation, No. 2916, and the two under notice, appear to have originated in inflammation of the medullary membrane and canal. No. 2918. The necrosed portion comprises the entire thick- ness of the end of the shaft, and is about five inches in length, nearly detached, and partly suri’ounded by a new osseous case. From Private James Leman.—Donor, Dr. Browne, Assistant- Surgeon, Coldstream Guards. No. 2919. The necrosed portion comprises the entire thick- ness of the shaft, and is about two inches in length, and is not situated at the end of the stump, but at the upper part of the shaft, close to the tubercle, and is partly surrounded by new osseous matter. From James Curds.—Donor, Dr. Munro, Surgeon-Major, Coldstream Guards. Amputation of the Arm Close to the tuberosities is similar to that recommended for amputation at the shoulder-joint, viz., by superior and inferior flaps, and cutting from without inwards (not transfixing). Amputation in the Middle of the Arm, or immediately above the elbow-joint, may be done either by the flap or circular methods. In describing the different amputations I shall not enter into minute details, which every surgeon knows.