GUNSHOT INJURIES PRODUCING 38 Rifles, shows a compound comminuted fracture of the frontal bone in the situation of the frontal sinuses. The internal table is considerably more splintered than the outer, and a portion of the bone appears to have been taken away by Key’s saw, to facilitate the removal of the loose pieces of bone. No. 289.2. —Calvaria, showing fracture and depression, of the frontal bone, caused by a shell. The fracture is situated on the left side, immediately above the superciliary ridge. Three small pieces of bone were removed from the wound by operation. The patient was nineteen years of age; one year’s service; was wounded 26th of April, 1856, in the Crimea, by the accidental bursting of a shell, which caused a fracture of the skull above the left eyebrow. There was depression, and, after the removal of the depressed portion, lie became quite sensible, and con- tinued so for eleven days; delirium then came on, and he died on the fourteenth day after the injury. On dissection, the dura mater was found uninjured, but, beneath the seat of fracture, an abscess existed containing about 2 oz. of pus in the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, whilst the whole of the substance of the hemisphere was softened as far back as the corpora striata. The two following, also No. 2900, page 37, were presented by Dr. Jephson, Surgeon, K. D. G. No. 2905.—Shows several large portions of bone removed by the trephine at two applications of the instrument, from Private D. M‘Kcnzie, 55th Regiment. (See Plate 1, fig. 3.) In this case the symptoms of inflammation of the brain and its membranes set in, and he was trephined on the fourth day after being wounded. A large piece of bone turned edgeways, pressing down the dura mater nearly an inch, required a second application of the trephine; almost instant relief was obtained, and the patient ultimately recovered, and was discharged to duty six weeks after the receipt of the injury. The following preparation, from Private C. Hancock, 21st Regiment, is an example of a depressed fracture from grape- shot. Inflammatory symptoms, with excruciating pain in the head, and double vision, came on. The trephine was applied on the fifth day after being wounded. Death took place on the s 'tee lay 2d. ’Tw o very large portions of depressed fracture removed by the operation of trephining; thus illus-