CONTUSION OR FRACTURE OF THE CRANIUM. 33 64th Regiment.—Private Matthew M'Glasher, set. 39, twenty- two years’ service. Wounded on the 12th August, 1857, by a portion of shell at the storming of Bassack Gungee in Oude; it struck him on the upper part of the left side of the forehead, at the upper and outer angle of the frontal hone, a portion of which was taken away two days after the wound. June 11th, 1858.—There are now two long cicatrices leading down to a deep depression capable of holding a marble, resulting from the loss of apparently all the tables of the skull, although the pulsation of the brain cannot he felt. He is in good health, and free from headache, except when he exposes himself to the sun, or stoops, &c. September 3rd.—Was sent to modified duty. 3rd Battalion R. B.—Private Charles Brown. Wounded at Cawnpore, December 6th, 1857, by a musket ball between the eyes into the frontal sinus; it was extracted forty-eight hours after. Several pieces of bone have come away. July 12th, 1858.—The wound is now nearly closed, there being only a small aperture capable of admitting a probe in the centre of a small depression; bare bone cannot be felt; and there is almost no discharge from it, and he is free from headache. Septem- ber 11th.—Duty. 37th Regiment.—Private John M‘Gifford. Wounded 30tli Julv, 1857, by a musket ball in the head; the ball passed across the upper part of the occiput, severely injuring the bone, which was left quite bare; one large piece of necrosed bone, the whole thickness, came away about three months after. July 16th, 1858.—Wound healed; there is now a deep depression, about three inches in length, across the upper part of the occipital bone; also a deep groove leading down from the centre of the first depression, in the form of the letter T; always complains of pains in the head and giddiness. 1/th. Invalided. 34th Regiment.—Private Thomas Long. Wounded at Cawn- pore, November 26tli, 1857, on the left temple, by a piece of shell, which lacerated the scalp and fractured the outer table of the parietal bone; necrosis ensued, and two small pieces of bone have come away. July 14th, 1858.—Wound healed; there is a deep depression, about three inches in length, capable of holding a finger, from loss of the outer table, and probable depression of the inner; complains of headache. August 6th. Invalided. 3