51 WOUNDS OF THE IIEAD. Simple Incised, Punctured, or Lacerated Wounds caused by Sabre or Bayonet, with Fracture of the Skull. Wounds caused by the sabre or other instrument, which has laid bare or cut the bone, are always to be looked upon as dangerous. The longitudinal sinus has been on some occasions wounded without a fatal result, and haemorrhage from it as well as from any of the arteries are easily .controlled, and do not require ligatures. The bones of the cranium are seldom penetrated by the bayonet, and when it does occur it usually proves fatal, but should the patient survive, any depressed or projecting spiculse of bone should at once be removed. Should a clean cut have been made by a sword or any sharp instrument, so as to leave the base of the detached portion still partially adherent, it ought to be allowed to remain, when it will form a great support to the brain, and ossific union may take place. The cut of a sword or any clean-cutting instrument occasionally produces a mere solution of continuity, and, in some cases, it causes a fracture or fissure which extends further than the part actually cut by the sword. Should the wound only have pene- trated the outer table and diploe, it ought to be treated as a simple incised wound. When the inner table is implicated it is usually broken and jagged to a greater extent than the outer, which externally may only show a clean cut, whilst the inner table is driven into the substance of the brain. These cases give rise to symptoms which, some time afterward, might require the use of the trephine. The depth of the wound in the bone may be ascertained to a certain extent by the careful introduction of the flat end of a probe or quill, and by the presence or absence of resistance to its further passage. No. 2909.—Calvaria of an officer of the 98th Regiment, who was killed at Peshawur. There is a large deep cut through the upper part of the right parietal bone, extending into the left; the blow seems to have been from behind, and a second blow or cut seems to have taken away a portion of bone imme-