GUNSHOT WOUNDS IN GENERAL. 3 entered, or it may be easily extracted; at another time, a spent ball merely causes a contusion, from the oblique direction with which it strikes and glances off. The apertures are usually opposite to each other when a ball traverses, but when it strikes a rib or the cranium it sometimes is deflected and runs under the skin, and makes its appearance on the opposite side, without wounding any of the important organs contained in these cavities. There is generally a considerable difference between the aperture of entrance and exit. The hole made by the entrance of the ball is small, circular, and depressed; that of exit is large, everted, and irregular. Occasionally, however, there is no difference to be observed between the two, and, in some cases, the aperture of entrance is even larger than that of exit. Mr. Guthrie explains this by stating that the amount of the difference in the two apertures depends upon the momentum of the ball, and also, in some measure, on the resistance met with. In perforating gunshot wounds where the ball is propelled in full force, the aperture of entrance is small and round, and even less than the ball itself. When its force is much dimin- ished before striking, then the entrance aperture is large and ragged. When a ball perforates the muscular parts of a limb, where it meets with little resistance, there is almost no differ- ence between the two apertures. When the velocity of the ball is diminished by coming in contact with a bone, the aperture of exit is large, torn, ragged, and its edges everted. Cannon balls generally produce wounds of the most for- midable description, either completely carrying away a limb or the fleshy parts of the arm or leg, or shattering the bones, &c. On other occasions a spent cannon ball may cause a contusion without even producing an external wound. This was formerly attributed to the wind of the ball, or to the air set in motion by the ball. On these occasions, although the skin, from its elasticity, is entire, still the muscles, vessels, and bones may be entirely disorganized and converted into pulp, or the internal organs may be ruptured without any external wound. In general, there is very little haemorrhage from gunshot wounds, provided none of the larger arteries are wounded. When organs of importance, as the large cavities and joints, are wounded, the shock to the nervous system is almost always