GUNSHOT INJURIES PENETRATING AND 48 lias been felt with a probe. On the 18th the febrile symptoms and headache were more urgent, and he had been delirious during the night. The wound was enlarged to examine the fracture, when I found and extracted the ball (attached), which was split at right angles, the small angle resting on depressed bone and level with the surrounding bone, which accounts for depressed fracture not being found with a probe; the other angle was more than 14- inches sunk in the brain. With some difficulty I extracted the ball; considerable lisemorrhage took place from the wound, and he became weak and so much exhausted that the depressed bone could not be elevated or removed without trephining, and was not meddled with. After a few hours he came round, and said the pain was nearly gone; sat up, examined the ball, and talked of being shortly able to have another go at the Russians. The following day the pain returned; the muscles of the left side of the face became paralysed; and high febrile symptoms came on. Some small pieces were removed from the bottom of the wround, but some larger ones, pressing on the brain, could not be removed without trephining. Chloroform was given at his own request, and the operation performed. The dura mater was found extensively lacerated by the ball and by pieces of bone; for three or four days he appeared going on well, and the febrile symptoms subsided, when a large fungus of brain-like matter projected from the wound. The fungus increased rapidly, and profuse discharge of thick purulent matter came from within the skull on each pulsation of the brain; when lie turned over on his left side I cut away the fungus in slices, applied Nit. Argenti, &c., and pledgets of lint soaked in Spt. Vini rect., but it grew as fast as ever. He gradually lost flesh, and hectic symptoms came on, but he complained of little pain in the head. On the 17th August he was delirious during the night, and tore off the dressings from the wound, together with a large piece of the fungus; towards morning lie became comatose and breathed somewhat stertorous; pulse 78. Lay on his face and hands, and when disturbed moaned very low as if 111 distress. No discharge from the wound even on turning him over on his side. I intioduccd a director, pressed the fungus upwards and backwards into the skull, when about 3 drs. of thick pus came from between the brain and dura mater. The symptoms of compression were