LOWER EXTREMITIES. 205 1 only occurred in the upper third, and 14 in the middle third. All appeared to have been flap operations, and per- formed under the influence of chloroform. In 8 instances the integument was not adherent to the hone, and the stumps were very good. In three cases the skin adhered very slightly, hut the covering was still good. Three cases re- mained unhealed. The case at the upper third of the thigh was performed by anterior and posterior flaps, forty-six days after, under chloroform. The wound healed; stump good, and skin not adherent. The stump was so short that it could not he retained in the bucket made by Mr. H. Bigg. In 8 cases amputation was performed from one to twelve hours after the accident; in 1 case from one to two days; in 1 case from three to seven days; in 1 from eight days to one month. Four were apparently by lateral flaps, and 6 were by the anterior and posterior flaps, and in the other case the mode of operating is not stated. The following case, from India, is an example of extensive necrosis of the shaft of the stump of the femur, causing death from exhaustion:—2nd Battalion Rifles.—Private John Sole, set. 24, wounded November 28th, 1857, at Cawnpore, on the right leg, by a grape shot. Amputation was immediately per- formed at the middle of the thigh. He was admitted into De- tachment Hospital, Gravesend, on July 8th, 1858, from on board ship. He was much emaciated. The stump had never been properly healed, and on board ship it sloughed. There were several unhealthy-looking sores on the stump along the line of incision, with a profuse discharge. After being in hospital he improved considerably, sores appearing more healthy, and for a time he gained both flesh and strength. He occasionally complains of great pain in the stump, referring it to the end of the bone. About three weeks before his death a swelling of considerable size appeared on the outer surface of the stump, which burst, and a large quantity of unhealthy pus escaped, and dead bone was detected through the newly opened sore. He now began to lose flesh and strength; the discharge increased from all the sores, appetite bad, stomach very irritable, and bed-sores appeared, tie died on September 11th, 1858. All the viscera in the different cavities were healthy. The