140 GUNSnOT WOUNDS OP TIIE LOWER EXTREMITIES. Walrasley (death) is very interesting, as showing strong bony union at the trochanter, with the ball lodged between the frac- tured ends. Hunter is able to walk about with very little lameness, and the sinus discharges very little. There appears to be a very extensive deposition of new bone, with thickening of the lower third of the femur, and central necrosis; the new bone extends so low as to encroach somewhat on the motions of the knee. They were all, as far as can be ascertained, treated by the long splint, with the exception of McCarter and Burke, who used MHntyre's splint for some time. The advantage of the dooley over the best constructed ambu- lance, for the conveyance of sick and wounded over rough roads during active military operations, is well shown in the result of these cases of compound comminuted fracture of the femur. All regiments in India have a certain proportion of dooleys and dooley-bearers attached to them permanently in the time of peace, and when on the line of march and on active service they are, of course, increased. Why should not Government enlist and organize in India a corps of trained dooley-bearers for ser- vice ivith our regiments in European wars ? This appears to me to be a measure which could be carried out without much difficulty, if sufficient inducements as to pay, good treatment when in the service, and the promise of a pension when discharged, and sent back to their homes in India, were held out to them. In the following case there was extensive laceration of the soft parts, and severe comminution of bone; large portions of necrosed bones were removed. The wound had never entirely healed; the limb was two inches and a quarter shorter than the other. 64th Regiment,—Private William MfCarter, set. 26, nine years' service, was wounded on February 8th, 1857, at Kooshat, in Persia, by a spent ball, which struck the outer and anterior aspect of the middle third of the right thigh, producing a severe comminuted fracture of the femur, with extensive laceration of the soft parts. The thigh was protected temporarily by a single straight splint on the outside. On the following morning the limb was put on a MTntyre's splint, with two side splints in addition; considerable inflammation followed, with great swell-