Ill PENETRATING OR PEREORATING. the integuments by adhesions of old standing. So much is this the case, that the mucous membrane and skin have become quite continuous, the intestine has also contracted firm adhe- sions to the adjacent peritoneum on the inner side. A quill is inserted into the upper part of the gut, which is of the usual caliber, and the mucous membrane is healthy. The bowlc below the wound is very much contracted from want of use, but pervious. The faeces were voided through the preternatural opening. The following preparation of a perforating gunshot wound through several folds of the small intestine, followed by recovery, is, as far as I am aware, quite unique. No. 1271. (See Plate Y.)—Two pieces of the small intestine; jejunum show- ing the results of injury by gunshot wound. The larger piece of intestine exhibits three constrictions of that gut, two of which have been laid open to show the interior, and the third one remains entire. In the inside these contractions present much the appearance of a cicatrix, being totally devoid of the normal villous character of mucous membrane of the intestine; above and below it is bounded by a sharp and well-defined line of the natural lining of the intestine. Externally these constricted points are covered by a layer of old granular lymph; they were of a darker hue and more vascular than other portions of the small intestine, which, however, presented throughout the arborescent vascularity and soddened state constantly observed in rapidly fatal cases of blue spasmodic cholera. The smaller piece of intestine exhibits a' fourth constriction of the gut, capable of admitting only a good-sized quill.—Donor, J. R. Taylor, Surgeon 80th Regiment. This preparation is from Private Paul Massey, 80th Regiment, who was shot in the abdomen at the battle of Ferozeshah, December 22nd, 1845. The symptoms consequent immediately upon the wound appear to have been so inconsiderable that it is re- corded by Dr. MacDonald (then surgeon of the regiment), that it was his opinion that the ball had coursed round the abdomen, and not penetrated or passed through that region. The patient, however, shortly before his death, stated he had passed blood by stool after the receipt of the injury. Recovery followed slowly, but appeared to be perfect. The soldier, how-