SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 229 Norwich Dispensary, gave the following account of the con- dition of this case, dated 26th March, 1860 :—•“ I have to-day seen your old patient, W—, and regret to say that he is quite unfit to undertake the journey to Fort Pitt; he is in a very emaciated condition, and will, I think, soon succumb to his disease—c phthisis pulmonalis.* His arm is in a satisfactory condition, inasmuch as there is a good sound cicatrix, and the limb presents a healthy aspect; there is not at present, however, much power in the arm.” This must be expected in a patient dying of consumption. Died 5tli July, 1860, thirty-two months after the operation. It is not often that a case occurs where the disease is entirely confined to the ulna and bones of the elbow-joint. With re- gard to the operation, it was found much more easy to dis- articulate from the elbow than from the lower extremity of the ulna, and care was required to avoid cutting the arteries and nerves by keeping close to the bone. It is also worthy of re- mark that no vessel required to be tied, although they must have been increased in size to supply the enlarged ulna. The rapidity with which the wround healed is also remarkable. The following is a case of partial excision of the wrist-joint: 78th Regiment. — Corporal David Fotheringham, wounded July 12th, 1857, by a musket ball, in the right wrist-joint. The ball entered on the anterior surface, and passed directly out on the posterior. Several small pieces of bone were taken away at the time. The hand has been kept in a straight splint ever since, and he has nowr nearly lost the use of the fingers. The wrist-joint is much enlarged; the aperture of entrance of ball is long since healed, that of exit still remains open; dis- eased bone can be felt. May 10th, 1858.—Diseased bone j taken away by the gouge. June 2nd.—Invalided. General anchylosis of the carpal bones. Wound nearly healed; has the use of the fingers to some extent. y Radius. Fractured or necrosed portions of the radius, or even the whole of the bone, may be removed by incisions on the outside or posterior aspect of the forearm.