144 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP TIIE LOWER EXTREMITIES. might have been advisable. GOth Rifles (1st Battalion).—Ser- geant Hugh Walmsley, ret. 30, was taken into hospital at Gravesend from on board ship, being unable to proceed to Fort Pitt with the remainder of the invalids from India. Was wounded July 4th, 1857, at Delhi, by a musket ball, the ball entering about the upper third of the left thigh upon the outer side, and making its way out or through on the inner side, shattering the bone, some fragments of which have come away since he had been on board ship; on his arrival the -wound was still open and discharging profusely; dead bone was easily detected by introducing the probe; was emaciated in the extreme, and suffering from chronic diarrhoea of a very obsti- nate character; the diarrhoea continued after his landing, and was eventually the cause of his death. Post-mortem.—Body. The marks of entrance and exit of a musket ball on the inner and outer side of the upper third of right thigh; the limb was much shortened and distorted to the extent of about three inches, the great toe resting upon the instep of the opposite side. Thorax. Heart and lungs both healthy. Ab- domen. Liver healthy, with the exception of one or two whitened patches on its surface; the lower portion of the large intestines was congested, and the mucous membrane showed marks of old ulceration, the result of chronic dysentery. Preparation No. 3G24 (sec Plate VI, fig. 2). Right femur, showing a comminuted fracture of the upper third, immediately below the trochanter; the fracture extends from the great tro- chanter obliquely, downwards and inwards, for an inch below the smaller trochanter; the extremity of the lower end of the fractured bone is on a level with the great trochanter; the extremities of the fractured ends of the bones are very firmly united by extensive depositions of new bone, and there is a large cavity between the ends, in which there is a round musket ball, and a large aperture leading to it on the outer side, where it entered; on this side there is also a large irregular lamina of necrosed bone. The last is a case of fracture between the middle and lower thirds, followed by necrosis, and extensive deposition of new bone so as, in some measure, to impede the motion of the knee- joint. 93rd Regiment.—Private Samuel Hunter, ret. 24, wounded