112 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF TI1E ABDOMEN ever, became subject to attacks of bowel complaint, gradually- becoming more frequent, and for the last twelve months of his life he was nearly constantly under treatment for symptoms of dysentery of the land scorbutic type. Whilst in hospital on account of this disease, he was seized, on the 13th May, 1851, with blue spasmodic cholera, terminating fatally the same day. Death five and a half years after being wounded. Cholera was then prevalent in the neighbourhood, and be- came epidemic in the regiment in the following month. Post-mortem appearance, an hour and a half after death.— Externally. Livid; but less so than during life; not much emaciated; cicatrix of a wound in left linea semilunaries, about four inches above the crista ilii, and on the same plane poste- riorly, another cicatrix, an inch to the left of the spine.—Head. General livid appearance of meninges and cerebral substance, some milky opacity on the upper surfaces of the hemispheres, slight serous effusion under arachnoid. — Thorax. Adhesions on the right side ; lungs partially collapsed; structure healthy; heart normal; fluid blood in left ventricle.—Abdomen. Omen- tum firmly adherent to the internal surface of anterior cicatrix, and gathered into a knot at that point. The intestines neither there nor elsewhere morbidly adherent, but the fold of in- testines immediately opposed to the cicatrix presented a line of contraction, as if a ligature had been tied round the gut. The fold of intestine immediately above presented the same appear- ance, and on the first fold, four inches from the first noticed contraction, and situated in a line below the umbilicus, was another similar appearance. The mucous surface of the small intestine generally was pale-pinkish in colour; no ulceration of large intestine; upper part of colon attenuated and con- tracted in situ; rectum thickened; stomach pale; liver small, congested; gall-bladder half filled with dark viscid bile ; spleen small; kidneys healthy. (See Plate Y.) It is curious to remark, on post-mortem examination of a case of direct gunshot perforation of the abdomen, that the intestine is wounded in many places considerably removed from the direct course of the ball. Is this removal of wounded portions of intestine from the line of the ball due solely to the natural peristaltic action, or to something more than this, as the