4-8 Buckmaster*'s Cookery. We cannot have a better example of what our be- haviour towards servants should be than that afforded by Boaz in his language to his reapers, when he came into the harvest field where Ruth the Moabitess was gleaning. Ruth, as we may all remember, was a young widow, living with her mother-in-law Naomi These two came down to Bethlehem in the time of barley harvest, and Ruth went to glean in the field which belonged to Boaz. Instead of flying into a passion and uttering oaths, or indulging in coarse jokes to those working and gleaning, the address of Boaz to his servants was, “ The Lord be with you ! ” and they answered him, •“ The Lord bless thee.” The blessing of God is generally seen to rest on those who are diligent, thrifty, and frugal; we are quite sure it never rests on indolence and extravagance. “ Waste a crumb, and you are likely to want a loaf. Squander a penny, and you are likely to want a pound.” “Waste not, want not.” “ Wilful waste makes woful want.” The habits which are acquired when we are young are most difficult to be eradicated, even though we may have a sincere desire of exchanging them for better. Order, neatness, and -cleanliness should then be practised by the mother of a family, if it were for no other reason than by example to form her 'children to habits which will be essentially useful to them in after-life. The mother, by enforcing on her daughters the necessity of industrious regularity, endows them with a property which will prove most valuable to 'them in their future destina- tion. The woman whose time is her capital, and who does not waste it by negligence, forgetfulness, or irregularity in her work, mav be considered to be twice as rich as she who has to ran for everything, and look for everything, just at the moment it is required. If engaged as a household servant, how much is her value enhanced by habits which gain her the esteem and good- will of her employers, and by which she makes friends through life!