been opened into; but the cerebral and cerebellar aspects of the petrons are normal and apparently belong altogether to the developed sheep. 828. Integument of head of a human foetus of fifth month, with two bodies. It is possessed of only one face, a large cranium, and behind, in the middle line, a combination of two ears, viz. the left ear of the right foetus and the right ear ot the left foetus. Above this, about an inch, there is a mesial tegumental elevation, while another and smaller elevation is about quarter an inch above the united ears. These are ( have no doubt) vestiges, the upper of a cyclopian eye, the lower of a cyclopian nose (see Nos. 835, 855, 856). 829. Eye of Horse, cut open equatorially, tunica vasculosa injected. The horizontally elongated pupil is seen with fringed pigmented appendage to the free upper border of the iris, and a slighter growth of the same sort on the lower border. The ci iary processes are broader above than below, and the partial tapetum is best developed above the part of the choroid opposite the pupil, and receiving the rays from the ground. The optic pore is also seen with some small remains of the retina. 830. Eye of Horse. A somewhat similar specimen to 820 • shows the tapetum better, and more of the retina hanging from the optic pore. 831. Eye of Horse. Everted tunica media, showing tapetum and ciliary processes. 0 1 832. Eye of Horse. Capsule of lens and the zonule of Zinn. 833. Eye of Horse. Lens within its capsule, and zonule of Zinn round about. 834. Eye of Horse. Cornea, with epithelium removed hanging from its margin the loosened ligamentum pectinatum’ remains of membrane of Descemet, and a bundle of fibres w are the circular fibres of the ciliary muscle. and with hich (I>r> i 835. The dried dura mater of the base of the skull of the double monstrosity, the integuments of whose head are preserved m No. 828, and present a single conjunct face looking in one direction, while on the opposite side there are two ears with one meatus between. In the middle line of this specimen are seen-the upper part (cribriform plate) the conjunct face the region corresponding to the sella of