each from the upper margin of the lateral slit-like projection of the floor of the fourth ventricle, while the inferior margin of that projection is free. 799. Pia mater of medulla oblongata, etc., with the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle, human. On the left side an injury has taken place in mounting, by which the choroid plexus on the left side has been torn from the thread which kept it in place. But the corresponding part on the right side is uninjured, and shows distinctly how the choroid plexus dips in from the middle line to the extremity of the lateral projection of the fourth ventricle along the peduncle of the flocculus. The two ascending parts of the plexuses adhered to the laminated tubercle, while this passed into the ventricle beneath the velum posticum. 800. Stomach, duodenum and liver of Terrapin. The stomach displays a series of five permanent rugae running its whole length, ceasing abruptly at a circular margin at the pylorus, where the mucous membrane abruptly changes its character, and is no longer of a firm and smooth surface, but thrown into thin gauzy reticulations which have received the injection freely. The duodenum, after a course of 4T inches, is bound down to the liver by a narrow fold of peritoneum, by which the hile and pancreatic ducts pass to open into it at a depression which is seen about an inch beyond its bend, marked by better injection than the part around it. The pancreas is narrow and runs close to the duodenum back towards the stomach. The liver is almost divided into two, which are joined by an isthmus ventral to the exit of the hepatic vein. Ventral to this is a great circular fold of peritoneum almost surrounded by hepatic substance. But though the right and left hepatic lobes are continuous one with the other on the ventral edge of this circle, they are only united by a thin thread of substance about | inch wide. The gall bladder is seen entirely imbedded in the interior of the right lobe of the liver, but the dissection failed to display the con- nections of the ducts. 801. Human kidney, moistened with glycerine, with the pelvis of the ureter breaking into three considerable separate divisions or necks of calyces before reaching the hylus. 802. Spinal cord of new-born Infant, with portions of column on each side, showing the course of the roots o nerves to their passage out through the dura mater; also the arachnoid ; also a number of spinal ganglia; also the pia mater