49 the empty state to be compressed between a deep and a super ficial flat muscle; and as the clasper is intromittent and retains its position by an arrangement of hooks, the whole sac is subjected to pressure by the invaded oviduct. 953- Abdominal viscera of Echidna, prepared to show the peritoneal relations. The colon has been cut away not far from the rectum, and its cut extremity is seen in the preparation dis- tended with cotton wool below the right lobe of the liver. Thence it may be followed with the small intestine ventral to it, as far as the caecum, which is seen from the front at the left side below, while the small intestine gathered in a clump has the duodenum ending at the right side, close to the colon, and is at its com- mencement at the pylorus cut open, as is also the stomach. The stomach has a well-developed cardiac cul-de-sac kept up by one of the threads by which the preparation is hung; and above it there is hung a horny desquamation of mucous membrane, which was found closely crumpled up in the otherwise empty stomach. It is to be noted that the intestines were likewise empty, and I should judge from this circumstance, and from the ovaries having been devoid of visible ova, that the animal when caught was hibernating or just awakened from that state. The gall bladder, cystic duct and hepatic and common bile-ducts are displayed, and the common bile-duct is seen to enlarge into a thicker structure less than half an inch in length before entering the duodenum. This structure has a pancreatic duct opening into it on each side, the pancreas being divided into a right and a left gland, the right one, the larger, lying between duodenum and liver, the left one lying between the liver and the lesser curvature of the stomach, separated from the latter by the pen of a feather placed so as to throw it forward. The spleen of Echidna is connected more closely with the end of the colon than the stomach, and is seen in the next preparation (954). 954. Spleen, kidneys, genital organs and rectum of female Echidna, from the same specimen as preparation 95 ;. The spleen is seen attached to the great intestine. The adrenals are placed on the inner margins of the kidneys. The left kidney has been opened in front and shows the great hollow of the pelvis, with apparently little or no medullary substance round it. At the proserial extremity of the vagina three little elevations are seen close together, the mesial one presenting an opening common apparently to the two ureters, while the two lateral elevations appear to be unperforated projections, one lying ventral to each of the openings of the oviducts, and thus calculated to assist in their occlusion under ordinary circumstances so as to prevent D