the axis; and surmounting the odontoid process is a spike of calcified notochord forming a pivot on which turns the occip bone. 0.4. Larynx of Crocodile (from the same specimen as No coo) Exhibits a pair of large muscles ans.ng laterally from apparently both cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and uni e musculo-tendinously in the ventral middle line Pr°se™ ^ a lon^ tendinous band more retroserially; while dorsally there is another pair of large muscles corresponding with the arytenoidei and posterior crico-arytenoidei of the human subject. Ihese latter have been divided to the left of the dorsal middle line,, so that the part thrown back to the right shows their narrow union by tendinous raphe in the middle line. 1 he cricoid cartilage is laid bare dorsally, and is narrow there, but swells out at the sides, while proserially, surmounting it, is seen what appears to be a thyroid cartilage in two lateral parts. Compare with thyroid ot Otaria, 844. Two broad bands of thickened fibrous tissue pass by" the sides of the rima glottidis from the cricoid towards the thyroid cartilage. 015. Skeleton of Pike (Esox lucius). The flesh-bones are preserved. A long range of these extends from before backwaids above the ribs. The typical form presents a long line of bone which lay near the surface of one of the intermuscular septa above the mid-lateral line, and gives off a stout process which was directed parallel to the muscular fibres, and extending forwards and inwards through two segments in front, to be attached by a ligament of some length to the side of a vertebral body, specimen was presented by J. Stewart, anatomical attendant, and mounted by G. C. Murray. 916. Viscera of Pike, from the same specimen as 915. The stomach and intestines were quite empty, dhe digestive tube has been divided immediately behind the gills: the stomach is elon- gated tubular: the intestine, at the pylorus, curves abruptly forwards to the fore end of the cavity, and is thence directed straight back to the vent, gradually narrowing. rl he pneumatic duct is seen passing from the throat to the fore end of the elongated swimming bladder. The bile duct, about seven inches long, enters the intestine about two inches from the pylorus, and is traced back about seven inches to the fore part of the deep surface of the elongated unlobed liver. At the lower end of the preparation is seen the vent with the genito-urinary opening behind it. Lying over the rectum is seen a urinary bladder about an inch and a half long. On each side of the long air bladder, closely united to it is an elongated hollow ovary, the left one slit