37 (Dry in jar) 909. Tongue and hyoid arch of Crocodilus biporcatus. The tongue has occupied the whole floor of the mouth, and has been attached all the way from root to tip : a portion of integument has been left under the tip to show that there is no free portion at the tip. On the surface about 20 depressions, apparently glandular, can be seen scattered over the middle part of the dorsum, but such are absent from the tip to about half way back to the fauces, and also in the faucial or posterior part. 1 he hyoid arch consists of a great cartilaginous shield about 3x3 inches in extent, and of a pair of lateral hyal bones, curved and thick, which have been jointed to the skull. 1 hese correspond with the styloid processes, stylo-hyoid ligaments, and small hyoidal cornua of the human subject. Each lateral hyal presents a muscle inserted along its proserial edge, and arising from the cartilaginous shield in such a manner as to be capable of lessening the angle between the cartilage and bone. The larynx has been cut away and put up as a separate speci- men (see No. 914); but the rima glottidis is left attached to the mucous membrane of the root of the tongue, to show the position which it occupied relatively to the cartilaginous shield, and how the larynx was thus placed within the concavity of the shield. (Dry) 910. I. Left ear of Lamb, («) Tympanic bone with stylohyal attached, membrana tympani, malleus and bulla tympani. (<£) Petromastoid, showing cochlea, also head of stapes looking out of fenestra ovalis. II. Petromastoid of Sheep (left), inner wall of tympanum with malleus and incus in position, and head of stapes looking out of fenestra ovalis. (Dry) 911. Atlas and axis of Child one year old, the axis bisected to show the separation, by a space, of the centrum from the odontoid process. The larger section shows epiphysial ossification between body of axis and odontoid process. The smaller section shows the apical centre of ossification of the odontoid process. (Dry) 912. Atlas and axis of new=born Child. The odontoid part larger than the centrum of the axis. . (Dry) 913. Atlas and axis of Tortoise. The atlas has the inferior surface turned up, showing a pair of true inferior articular processes besides the surfaces present in the human subject. The true articular processes lay behind the second nerve. The axis shows the odontoid process distinct from the true body of