35 and was traced into communication with the main duct which is laid bare from behind. 902. The integuments of a case of sympodium in a full grown hydrocephalic foetus. A tumour is seen to come off abruptly in the middle line of the prominence of the buttock. The nature of the tumour is not obvious from examination of this preparation, but it readily suggests that a pathological con- dition at this part has prevented the retroserial edges of the two feet of the embryo from being moved outwards from the middle line. This explanation accounts for the fifth toes of the two component feet of the compound foot lying side by side while the great toes are at the sides, and the compound sole is turned upwards. 903. Heart and lungs of Agouti, injected. The heart is exceedingly stout and massive. The right and left lung show from the sides of the preparation three lobes each, symmetrically correspondent. The fourth or sub-cardiac lobe of the right lung, so common in mammals, is also seen to be present, if the jar be placed at a high level, and the bases of the lungs be looked at from below. 904. Pleura, great vessels and pericardium of Hyaena, put up specially to show the special compartment of the right pleura for reception of the fourth lobe of the right lung. The pericardium is opened from the front, and the greater part of the ventricles of the heart removed. At the back of the preparation the right pleura is seen to fold round the back of the posterior vena cava, and form a sac for the fourth or post- cardiac lobe of the right lung, with the entrance bounded on the right by the posterior vena cava, and on the left by a develop- ment of the dorsal mediastinum in which the right and left pleura lie back to back, forming a membranous septum. The roof of the septum is formed in like manner by the right pleura and the dorsal part of the pericardium, and slopes ventrally to the central tendon of the diaphragm with which the pericardium is adherent at its extremity. The ventral part of the sac, in front of the vena cava, is partially distended with cotton-wool to display the omental character of the double fold of pleura and the appen- dices of adipose tissue contained in it. These are continuous with masses on the pericardium, some of them probably altered remains of the thyroid body. (Dried) 905. Trachea, bronchial tubes and oesophagus of Hyaena crocuta. The oesophagus diminishes rapidly in size after two-thirds of its course to the stomach. The left lung has