48 in human anatomy), and projecting forwards tc.endl in apoint behind the second incisor tooth, being nearly 1two ■ ndte:3 length No communication between the oral and nasal cavit s exists,'nor any vestige of Jacobson's organ so well devdoped m ruminants. A considerable artery descends in the mesial fora- men (foramen of Scarpa), but neither a nasopalatine nerve nor branch of olfactory could be found beneath the mucous membrane which covered the right side of the septal cartilage. Note to qs°.—This specimen is not complete by itself. The specimen in open jar marked “Mucous membrane of nasal septum of Horse,” etc., “see J. C. 95°.” Partl>' supplements it. But further dissection requires to be made. oc i. Displacement of caecum to the left iliac fossa owing to failure to cross the duodenum. The specimen is from an anencephalic foetus (944) with spina bifida open along the whole back. Liver, stomach, kidneys and pelvic viscera are preserved with their peritoneal connexions. On the left side ot the specimen the caecum is seen hanging down ; and the colon can be traced thence to the rectum, which is seen descending behind the opened vagina. Above the colon are the coils of the small intestine. To the right of these coils the duodenum is seen pendent, and with it the remains of a mesentery extending up to near the entrance of the common bile-duct. On the 01 e- duct there is a good deal of thickening and a mass which is 1 probably pancreatic. The sac of the great omentum may have been distended while as yet the caecum was not removed from its original site close to the pylorus, and inflammatory thickening to its right has probably diverted it from its normal course, preventing it from crossing the duodenum. Ihis specimen may well be compared with intestines ot Echidna 953- ^ sP*e®n is much broken up into lobes with even a few completely separated splenules. 952. Male organs of Acanthias, in the inactive condition. The heart, liver and part of stomach are also preserved. I he testes lie one on each side of the liver. The massive right and left epididymis run along the whole length of the abdomen, and have been somewhat bent to shorten the specimen, lhe left one can be followed right up to its commencement internal to the testis. But principally the specimen is intended to show the spermatothecal sacs in the ventral fins, which in the sexually active state are filled with semen running into them by a groove on the side of the cloaca. The entrance to the sac is on the inner edge of the clasper, and the neck of the sac passes between phalangeal cartilages to the under side of the fin, and is seen in