i6 815. A considerable portion °f ^ ileum,with enlarged mesenteric glands, one of which is siowi , ^ Fever’s patches are seen in various places much thickened, a at one parf near the lower end of this portion of intestine the lumen of the intestine is considerably obstructed by a tumour caused by thickening right round. 816. A separate portion of the ileum, showing thickened Peyer’s patches. 817. The caecum and ileo = colic valve ot the same speci- men. The opening into the colon from the ileum is almost occluded by a circular growth founded on the closed follicles, and in like manner the vermiform appendix is converted into a tumour, and into its lumen a feather has been pushed. 818. A shot lodged in the radius of a pheasant. 1 he fragments of the broken bone had been kept separate by the ulna, and a complete circle of bone has been formed round the shot, which remains in the middle. Presented by Professor M ‘Kendrick. 819. Male skull, middle-aged, fractured by falling out of a window, on right parietal region. 820. Vitreous humours and lenses of two Ox eyeballs, prepared with soda carbonate and stained with methylene blue. The lenses are transparent and green, the vitreous humours have only a slight haze and are colourless. I he ruptured anterioi wall of the capsule of the lens is very slightly brown. . 1 he canal of Petit in the upper specimen has a white precipitate in its interior, and the back part of the lens ot this same specimen has likewise altered to an opaque white pulp. 1 he plications of the zonule are very distinct, exhibiting an appearance ot linear structure belonging to the suspensory ligament. 821. Old unlabelled specimen, remounted. Abscess at fundus of bladder with small intestine adherent. Prostate enlarged, bladder much thickened, and thrown into pits. At the outlet of the bladder there are two symmetrical openings with membranous walls and fringed upper extremities placed symmetrically, and leading into the prostatic urethra. They are obviously a congenital peculiarity. Only one of them had been noted and brought into view by means of a glass rod sent through it. But its companion was perfectly obvious, and is now exhibited in like manner.