i7 822. Old unlabelled specimen, remounted. Tumour of prostate. Blue rods are in the ureters, and a white rod shows the route of a perforation which has been made during life from the rectum into the trigone. The thick prostatic wall distin- guishable from the lobulated tumour shows how Freyer’s operation is possible. There is no mode at my disposal for finding out who originally made this most interesting specimen. But it is certainly not a Thomson preparation. 823. Brain and spinal cord of foetus of fifth month, injected with carmine. Note the small size of the thoracic part of the cord compared with the cervical and lumbar enlargements which have each a horizontal sectional area from four to six times as great. The choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle on the right side is torn out from the flocculus so as to show the free edges of brain above and below a horizontal slit, which are the first rudiments of the flocculus. The upper parts of the hemispheres are removed, and the very large choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles are seen. (Dry in jar) 824. Intracapsular fracture of the right hip joint : the articular head remaining in the acetabulum, a false joint has been manufactured between it and the fractured neck of the femur. But, as usual, the whole of the neck has disappeared posteriorly. Also a portion in front is projected forwards, and behind this there is a large flat surface between the two tro- chanters, and this moves on the head of the femur. 825. Chronic inflammation of knee joint, showing: 1st, Porcellaneous degeneration of exposed surfaces of patella and femur. The close-grained deposit of bone so named is remark- able for the circular curve on both surfaces, which replaces the facetted arrangement of the original cartilages, as is always the case in this method of repair, and for the vertical scores indi- cating the plane of movement, and caused no doubt by hard projections on one bone scoring the opposed bone. Apparently such projections have formed in the depth of the articular cartilage of the lower border of the patella and surface of the femur in front of the outer condyle. 2nd. Undisturbed cartilage over the femoral condyles without any indication of ulceration except at one part, but covered with a villous growth, short and scant over the part pressed on by the tibia in the erect posture, but long and thick posteriorly, and at the sides of the digital fossa. The one part of the cartilage ulcerated away is that which is normally pressed against by the seventh surface of the patella in complete flexion. The villi are precisely of the same character B