the urethral orifice there is seen in the sac a laterally extended spongy glandular-looking surface, and close above this are the two orifices of ureters removed some little distance from the orifice of the pouch which I regard as fundus of the bladder. Close to the cut edge of the sac, below the left ureter, the left ovary and Fallopian tube are seen. The right ovary and Fallopian tube were accidentally cut away in putting up the preparation. Several specimens of quite the same description have been recorded by Dr. Arthur Keith and by others to whom he refers; but the structures have been altogether misapprehended, and the existence of spina bifida, which has probably been the cause of the other malformations, has not been noted, so far as I know. 787. Lower jaw. of a Salmon which had been taken in the Tay at Birnam, and was found cast aside in the snow at Christmas- time putrefying. A section is made through the symphysis to display the matted fibrous structure which gives the beak-like appearance in the foul fish. 788. Injected intestine and mesentery of Goat. Showing mesenteric glands and lacteals naturally injected with chyle. The beaded character of the fine afferent lacteals is distinctly seen, and it is notable that the efferent ducts from each gland are only one, two or three in number. A thread is put round two ducts from two glands, and these two ducts join with a third from another gland to make a single duct. 789. A section of liver, human, put up to show the empty sections of hepatic veins gaping in the hepatic tissue, and the sections of Glisson’s capsule accompanying the portal veins and hepatic arteries. It is from the same subject as 790, 794, b, and 795. 790. A small part of the same liver, with its peritoneal covering raised from it to show the commencement of sub- peritoneal pathological deposit which goes on in some instances to make a thick leathery structure of considerable thickness. 791. Aortic aneurism occurring in the arch and dilating behind the branches of the arch. Death has occurred by the aneurism opening into the trachea, and a feather is placed in the opening. 792. A dissection of the labial glands in the human subject, exhibiting their great number and their disposition in four groups on each half of the upper and of the lower lip.