39 up so as to show the ovuliferous ridge of the lining membrane arranged in transverse strips extending down the whole length. Behind the swimming bladder are seen the remains of the kidneys, the secreting parts of which had become diffluent and have been washed away, while the two ureters and the tubules opening into it are preserved. No pyloric appendages, nor spleen. The digestive tube contained nothing but mucus. 917. Pregnant uterus and vagina of Guinea Pig. The right cornu uteri has contained three embryos, the left cornu contained none. The latest of the three embryos is left attached by its placenta, the amniotic sac unopened. Close to it is the uterine placenta of the embryo preceding it, which together with the remaining and most advanced embryo is put up in prepara- tion 918. The uterus and vagina are opened. The cervix is seen to be massive, depending into the vagina. The urinary bladder and urethra are seen, and a bristle is placed in the orifice of the urethra. The rectum opens into the back of the vulva. Injected. 918. The two other embryos which were contained in the uterus of the preceding preparation, 917. The most advanced embryo is hung uppermost, and is several times as large as the next, which is three times as large as the third embryo, which has been left attached to the uterus in 917. Below it is hung the maternal placenta of the large embryo. A portion of the maternal placenta of the second embryo remains attached to the uterus in 917. 919. Monstrous human embryo of six weeks (?), left attached by its connexions to the walls of its dropsical amniotic sac. A careful examination of the embryo shows that the cephalic part is dwarfed and destroyed, but that there are four limbs. Of the two lower limbs, the left is seen well from the dorsal aspect: the two upper limbs come very close to the lower. The umbilicus is prominent, projecting backwards, and the cord is swollen in part of its extent. Apparently the arrest of develop- ment has set in early in the length of the cerebro-spinal axis and its surroundings. The embryo may be considered as a very early acephalus. 920. Base of brain of Ornithorhynchus paradoxus Dry. 921. Eustachian orifices and sacs of the Horse. The cranial extremity of the pharynx is left attached to the base of the skull, and on each side is seen the expanded orifice of a