3° 877- Ovarian cyst, presenting in the interior two teeth like incisors, and near them a tuft of substance presenting a veo 1 surrounded by papillae. When the specimen was fresh, a short black hair projected from each alveolus, but these have eviden y been mistaken by the dissectors for impurities and been carefully removed. Above and behind, the fallopian tube is seen winding, thickened and hypertrophied at the fringed extremity. The unaffected part of the ovary and its round ligament are also seen. Preserved from the dissecting room by Dr. Hutton. 878 Portion of intestine of a large Fish, with the mucous membrane covered with specimens of echinorhynchus, some of them an inch in length. Specimen presented by Mr. M'Laren. 879. Sternum, clavicles and costal cartilages of a foetus of 3 months. It requires to be studied with a lens, and shows some curious things, but does not settle the origin of the sternum. Preserved in turpentine. Notice the laige size and letter S curvature of the clavicles. (Dry on card) 880. Bones of base of skull of kitten, showing in linear series basioccipital, post-sphenoid, pre-sphenoid, vomer, and mesial palatine processes of intermaxillaries; and at the sides the large tympanic rings in position. (Dry on card) 881. Skeleton of Pilchard. (Dry) 882. Skeleton of Halibut head. (Dry on card) 883. Part of vertebral column of Herring, showing the continuous elastic ligament which lies within the neural canal, above the spinal cord, and is homologous, with the ligamenta subflava; also the upturned caudal extremity of the notochord. (Dry on card) 884. Two specimens of a not uncommon deformity of the vertebral column in the Haddock. It is known as Lordfish, and has been described by some under the name of scoliosis. It occurs also in the cod. It consists essentially in compression serially of a number of vertebrae. (On card) 885. Various bones of the skull of the Pike, also dried cartilaginous part of the skull. Various of the bones named. (On stand) 886. Skeleton of Cod’s head, shoulders and pelvis. Articulated by G. C. Murray.