5 to a pinhole in the middle of a thick rounded projection, with an eruption on the vaginal surface. The vulva and vagina were large and open. The mammae were well developed. There were no signs on the mamma or abdominal wall of former suckling or labour. The body was that of a seamstress who fell down stairs and fractured her skull, being intoxicated. The articulated skeleton is preserved. For other particulars see 777. 758. (Dry, in jar) Skeleton of newly hatched Goose with additional limb. The additional limb is of an uncommon variety. Instead ot being completely separate from the well- developed limbs, though at one side of the sacrum, it is adherent to and partly united with the right limb. The triangular com- posite pelvic bone generally met with in birds with additional limbs is undiscernible. A single thigh bone comes off immediately internal to the proper right femur, and is continued into a large leg bone more obviously composite, swelling out to its lower end, which has two condyles interiorly. The internal of these two condyles has apparently not been continued into a metatarsal, but the outer condyle is continued into a metatarsal placed closely side by side with that belonging to the developed right limb, and continuous with the two metatarsal bones there is a foot consisting of seven toes, the four outer of which make together a right foot corresponding with the normal, but of small size. 1 he remaining three toes belong to the additional limb, and the central of these is more largely developed than the other two, while the outermost is closely united to and symmetrical with the innermost of the four toes of the right limb proper. 759. < Dry, in jar) Osseous tumours on Falx cerebri. One on the right side, the other on the left; neither of them attacking the mesial fibrous septum of which the falx mainly consists, but growing in its covering, the tissue which I have pointed out to be a distinct parietal arachnoid. Picked up in the rooms by Dr. Samuel Cameron. Compare with the very similar specimens, 448 and 638. 760. Pia mater and choroid plexuses from the back of the fourth ventricle and medulla oblongata. The inferior cerebellar arteries and some nerve-roots are left. The specimen is put up to show the foramen of Magendie, the foramena of Lusthka, and the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. The so-called foramen of Magendie is in great part produced by removal of the ligulse, which were continuous externally with the margins exhibited, and inferiorly with the two bodies standing up on each side of the middle line, which constitute