28 flocculus; also the roof of the fourth ventricle with a prominence in the middle line formed by the anterior mesial laminae of the cerebellum pressing downwards on the valve of Vieussens which conceals it. 868 Viscera of Stork. Tongue, pharynx, &c., hang over on one side. Trachea, inferior larynx, oesophagus, lungs and liver all seen in situ. 1 wo thymus glands and heart all in position. The stomach is turned aside from under the liver in order to show the comparatively weak musculature of the gizzard and the light glandular character of the proventriculus.. The epithelium and contents of the gizzard are preserved in jar 472. 869. Male Zebra. Bladder, prostate and root of penis. At the neck of the bladder the urethra is enveloped in a strong muscular coat in the region of the true prostate, which is swollen out apparently mostly by muscular substance, which is continued in the form of circular fibres for more than an inch. Then come a pair of glands covered with muscular coats, and beyond this the urethra is continued between the crura of the penis. The most interesting part of the preparation is on the dorsal aspect, where the two vasa deferentia are seen with their openings into the urethra distended with glass rod. Traced upwards they have an enormous musculature for three inches, thinning down an inch away from the urethral opening as well as at the other end. Between them there is a tubular structure, the prostatic sinus, between 4 and 5 inches long, ending in a blind pouch lying in a fibrous band stretching between the two. The opening of this tube into the urethra could not be made out. 870. Larynx, tonsils and root of tongue of Zebra. 1 he tongue, very fully injected, shows a smooth dorsum, a pair of large circumvallate papillae, not half the size of those of the horse, and distinct foliation at the sides. The tonsils are elongated from before backwards, and are studded with openings. The epiglottis and the large cornicula laryngis are grasped by the prominent posterior pillars of the fauces in such a manner as to make the opening of the glottis continuous in position with the posterior nares, enabling the animal to breathe freely through the nose. The thyroid body is kept on the right side, a flattish circular body tapering in front to a long narrow isthmus which connected it with the part on the left side. 871. Right testis of Zebra. The globus inferior of the epididymis is large, the globus superior very small, leaving little room for coni vasculosi. The tunica albuginea is removed from