5i swollen by the soda carbonate, and the anterior elastic mem- brane of Bowman has been partially separated (with, no doubt, the anterior layers of the cornea proper). The membrane of Descemet, partially separated, presents a shrivelled appearance. The lower specimen shows the cornea in a natural condition, while the membrane of Descemet has been separated in its completeness with the ligamentum pectinatum iridis attached round it and forming a dark ring. The membrane is much thinner and less elastic than in the horse. 959. Cornea of Ox, with anterior and posterior ^nembranes dissected from it. In this specimen, to which various reagents had been applied, and which is slightly stained, the anterior elastic membrane has become more cleanly separated from the main cornea than in 958, while posterior laminae have remained adherent to the membrane of Descemet. 960. Transparent contents of eye of Ox, two specimens. The upper specimen has been treated with lead acetate, which has made the vitreous humour and the lens densely opaque. A section (equatorial) has been made through it, showing absence of all lamination in the vitreous humour, while the lens has been sufficiently firm to bear section and shows its triradiate division. The lower specimen has not been treated with lead acetate. The vitreous humour has flattened out; the lens has become broken up, while the anterior layer of the capsule stands out with bold convexity, quite transparent. 961. Lens, iris, fore part of choroid and the ciliary muscle, with ciliary nerves entering it. Ox. Part of the ora serrata has been preserved. 962 and 963. Cirrhosis (more properly sclerosis) of the liver, bisected dorso-ventrally. 962 is the upper half and 963 the lower. They not only show contraction of the whole organ and the hobnailed appearance of the surface, but that the whole substance is throughout divided by connective tissue into separate masses, and these into smaller masses. 964. Trachea, bronchi and lungs of Echidna. Tike the ornithorhynchus the echidna has long bronchi with cartilaginous bands truncated at the extremities like those of the trachea. Lungs lobed similarly to those of ornithorhynchus. See 925. 965. Foetal skeleton of third month. Put up in oxalic acid. This was a first experiment with oxalic acid to make the ossifications opaque and the other textures transparent. The