54 o84. An articulated set of bones of the left foot lowing thiMnternal cuneiform represented by wo bones. T e o toother would make up a normal nUernacunedb e show Lvv .either wouia maKe up a r external half reaches back to the scapho» d, but does upper or not articulate with it metatarsal. Both half-bones articulate with the first (Dry) 985. Jaws and sill-arches of Skate. Shows 1. A membrane projecting backwards from the upper ,w, above the upper range of teeth. It presents two lateral lobes and a mesial narrower part between, hardened by a series_ of calu nodules. This membrane seems not to have hitherto attracte attention, but it is obviously the commencement of the pa ate of reptiles, birds, and mammals. Both the mammalian palate and this membrane seem beyond question to be the uppei ip of the opening made by the stomodeeum and the alimentary tube becoming continuous. The lower lip of the opening is, I have always held, visible in man throughout life as the fringe on the lower surface of the tongue, corresponding with or closely con- nected with the edge of the lemurine under-tongue. 2. The mils are dissected out to show on the right side the cartilaginous rays corresponding with the gill-rays of osseous fishes ; and on the left side their sacs are cut into, so as to exhibit the muscular floors and septa—a muscular septum lying between every two successive gill-sacs, in front of the cartilaginous rays The ventral cartilages are seen with which the gill-arches O’ are connected, viz., a broad cartilage behind, and a paii of elongated narrow slips, all of them on the deep side of the heart and truncus arteriosus, and thus corresponding with laryngeal elements in higher vertehrata. (Dry on paper tray) 9*6. Skeleton of Bufo agua, limbs and sternum not articulated. (Dry) 987. Frontal section of face, cutting anteriorly through eyeballs, maxillary antra (very large), nasal turbinations, etc., and showing posteriorly the Eustachian tube, the sphenoidal sinuses greatly enlarged and no longer communicating with nasal cavity, and, lower down, posterior view of larynx. (Dry) 988. Section from same subject as preceding specimen, showing the blind top of the pharynx and sections of Eustachian tubes. The Eustachian tubes are each distended with glass rod. (Dry) 989. Skeleton of Mole. 990. Cast of liver of Armadillo.