9 (Dry) 778. Skeleton of Echeneis remora. (Dry) 779. Skeleton of Exocetus volitans. Flying fish. (Dry) 780. Skeleton of Leuciscus rutilus. The roach. (Dry) 781. Skeleton of Scomber scombrus. The mackerel. (Dry) 782. Skeleton of Carduelis elegans. The goldfinch. (Dry) 783. Skeleton of Scolopax gallinago. The snipe. (Dry) 784. Skeleton of Sturnus vulgaris. The starling. (Dry) 785. Skeleton of Foetus, with ectopia viscerum and .spina bifida, of which the other preparations are Nos. 772, 773 and 786. In this preparation the skeleton and a number of muscles are dried. The skull and limbs are normal. The lumbar and sacral parts of the vertebral column show the alteration produced by the dropsical swelling of the cord which gave rise to the spina bifida. This has also pushed aside the ischial tuberosities at the same time that it has displaced the sacrum forwards and led to the glutei maximi muscles being thrown into one transversely continuous muscle crossing the middle line. In front, the pubic bones, though each completing the obturator foramen of its own side, fail to "meet in the middle line. The cartilage of the body of the right pubic bone was united by strong fibrous tissues to the umbilicus. It will be understood from the next preparation, 786, that the symphysis remained open owing to a bladder-like expansion representing the colon, and to that hollow viscus the coccyx was united by a fibrous band. To save this band the coccyx and a portion from the ventral part of the lower sacral vertebra has been cut away to be exhibited in 786. 786. The viscera of the Foetus from which Nos. 772, 773 and 785 have been prepared. Above and to the left are the tongue, trachea and oesophagus. The heart, lungs and arch of aorta are displayed, and above the heart the two innominate veins cut across are recognised by being tied with short white threads. Joining the left innominate, a vein, probably the left cardinal, comes up from below and is made to stand away from the other structures by a bristle passed along it. This vein received the blood from both kidneys and both lower limbs. The liver is hanging in a position similar to that which it occupied as it lay for the most part extruded from the abdominal cavity ;