6 the obex A feather on each side of the opening into the cavit> of the sub-pedunculated lobe (flocculus) which is bordered by literal prolongation of the choroid plexus, namely from the two lateral angles of the diamond which it incloses and which corresponds in position with the posterior velum. 761 Congenital deficiency of upper part of interventri- cular Seotum. This specimen was originally preserved by Professor Allen Thomson, but required to be re-arranged and re-mounted. This was accordingly done in 1902. 1 he slip of whalebone remains as placed by Prof. Thomson through the interventricular communication. 1 he aorta and pulmonary artery are normal. 762. A right testicle, with calcification of spermatic aiteiy, atrophy of the lower part of the epididymis and commencement of the vas deferens, and with the hydatid of Morgagni developed into an apparently cartilaginous tumour. Saved from the dis- secting room by Dr. Samuel Cameron, T902. 763. Cowper’s glands. The ducts of the gland are traced forwards, but the specimen has been cut short above, immediately below their openings into the urethra. At the lowei end, t preparation shows the urethra cut across in its membranous part, the commencement of the spongy urethra not obviously dilated, while the bulb of the corpus spongiosum descends a long way below it. Both right and left gland are in two parts ; and on the right side these parts are only connected by union oi two duc ts, and it was noticed that the anterior of the two parts was imbedded in the bulbo-cavernosus muscle. The subject was a Kami of middle age. 764. Sertularia abietina, showing numbers of the capsules containing the young medusoids. Obtained from Dr. Bruce Young. 765. Open foramen ovale in heart, apparently adult. 1 he foramen is large. A glass tube with whalebone in it has been passed through the foramen so as to exhibit a very elongated cylindrical valve projecting into the left auricle and more than half an inch in extent from fixed to free edge. The ductus arteriosus is largely patent, allowing a |-inch glass tube to pass through it from the pulmonary artery into the arch of the aorta before that vessel has arched over to the left. Half an inch intervenes between the origin of the ductus arteriosus from the pulmonary artery to the commencement of the right and left