44 opening into the canal was not distinctly made out but seems to be situated near the cloacal extremity of the canal, where were situated several distinct pits. The left gland has been bisected and rests on the bottom of the jar. 027. Genito-urinary organs of Female Ormthorhyn- chus. Kidneys, ureters and bladder seen in the upper part of the preparation. The oviducts and ovaries at the sides, the genito- urinary sinus and cloaca below. The urinary bladder has a wide neck • below it the oviducts open one on each side, and a little lower*down the ureters open at the extremities of two somewhat elongated prominences. The ovary was contained in a wide hood of peritoneum: below this the genito-urinary sinus is prolonged a long way, to where the rectum is seen to open into the less elongated cloaca. Only the posterior half of the cloaca is preserved. It is noticeable that preparation 36 shows that the echidna has a clitoris half an inch long in a distinct preputial sac; but if there is a like development in the ormtho- rhynchus, as seems most probable, it has been accidentally removed in this specimen. (In jar, dry) 928. Clavicles of full grown Tigress. (In jar, dry) 929. Clavicle (right) of Hyaena. A small spur projecting from the junction of sterno-mastoid and pectorahs major. (Under glass bell jar) 930. Fourth lumbar vertebra and minute part of right side of frontal bone of William the Lion. Presented by Henry Barr, Esq. (Dry in jar) 931. Altered inter = maxillaries, each support ing one first incisor tooth, removed by Dr. Cieorge Buchanan (afterwards professor of clinical surgery) in 1867. The stiuctuie has, as is usual in such cases, projected forwards from the front of the vomer, and been separated by a cleft from the superior maxillary on each side. 932. Left kidney, with secreting substance entirely destroyed by cystic disease. Large cysts occupy the whole space originally occupied by tubular substance. 933. Left kidney, the fellow of 932, showing both medullary and cortical substances increased in amount, capsules closely adherent and thickened. The surface beneath the capsules exhibits a number of little swellings like peas, showing that cystic disease had been threatened in this kidney also, but had not been able to make way.