47 bably proper cord substance, and immediately outside this what I take for broken portions of posterior roots are seen, while the anter.or roots appear to have suffered less and to be continued outwards to perforate the dura mater, and inwards to scatter their strands mostly in a downward direction. The pia mater has been continuous over the brain, whose parts could not be well made out. Possibly the arachnoid has not been continued to the middle line dorsally on the cord, in which case it is pia mater which is seen in that situation. But in any case it is obvious that there is an arachnoid sac with visceral and parietal walls unburst during life, the parietal wall distinct from the dura mater whose bursting caused the spina bifida. (Dry glycerined in open jar) 945. Solar plexus, kidneys, aorta, vena cava, suprarenals and crura of diaphragrn, all in position. The splanchnic nerves, semilunar ganglia, cceliac, superior and inferior mesenteric plexuses, suprarenal and renal plexuses, also aortic and hypogastric plexus are exhibited. (On stand) 946. Arius latiscutatus (?). Skeleton of speci- men sent from Khartoum by Dr. Andrew Balfour. (On stand) 947. Heterobranchus (Sp. ?) from Khartoum. Skeleton. Specimen sent by Dr. Andrew Balfour. I strongly suspect that Heterobranchus and Synodontis are the same genus ; but that Synodontis loses the characteristic loose teeth of the lower lip as it grows larger. See smaller specimen with the loose teeth preserved. (On card) 948. Coffer fish, Ostracion (Sp. ?); belongs to the subgenus Aracana. (See Gunther, Brit. Mus. Cata/owe.) (a) Skeleton, (i>) Shield. (Dry in jar) 949. Skin of roof of skull of Acanthias, injected, dried, and in part denuded of its scales. Shows the pair of openings in the roof of the skull which lead into the internal ears and were the first parts of them to be developed ; also the mucous canals and pores of the cephalic part of the mucous sensory system. 950. Fore part of right upper jaw of Horse, dissected so as to show the anterior extremity of the septal cartilage of the nose, which is seen to swell out to an enormous thickness and breadth. The left part of this thickened extremity has been cut away with the left bone, while a remarkable process of cartilage is seen continued from the right edge down through the left incisor foramen (corresponding with the foramen of Stenson