5° nrine being forced into them. The bladder has a constricted neckof own between its cavity and the unnary pap,11a. li e special pouch for the clitoris is laid open venial y so as o disnlav that organ with its two bifurcate extremities. At tne back of the preparation the rectum and cloaca are lard open dorsally so as to show the opening of the vagina distended y piece of glass, and. a quarter of an inch lower down the opening into the pouch of the clitoris, which is large., and has extremity of a bent glass rod passed into it. 0„ Tongue, soft palate, larynx and salivary glands of Echidna The preparation has been made principally to show the remarkable salivary glands. The smaller pair, compact and each coated with a covering of fascia connected by means of a band with the gland of the opposite side, are obviously sub maxillary glands, with the ducts of Wharton well developed. The larger pair are also connected one with the other by means of fascia, and on account of their great hulk might pass 1)1 parotids; but their ducts open below the tongue, so that lhe\ must be considered as sublinguals or glands of baithohn. li e velum palati is so prolonged backwards that it was with difficult) that the epiglottis could be brought into view without injury o the velum. ' Two large muscles, shown arising from the trunk, are seen to form by their insertion great part of the postenoi portion of the tongue, where it carries on it the large patch of horny papillte. (Dry in jar) 956. Wired femur of Rabbit. I he wire was placed round the bone when the rabbit was young. he fasten- ing had given way. Nevertheless the new layers of bone have been formed smoothly round it so as to imbed it in the shaft. (Dry in jar) 957. Lower jaw of Rabbit, wired on left side. The wire had been passed through the ramus when young an 1 made into a loop fastened behind, hut had ulcerated out. lie growth of the ramus backwards has been arrested, as is also the absorption at the fore part of the insertion of the masseter. the absorption at the anterior free edge of the ramus has not been interfered with. 'The hone has thus remained symmetrical above, but has been arrested in its backward growth below. 956 and 957 were from experiments made in Galway prior to the passing of the Antivivisection Act. 958. Membrane of Descemet of Ox. Two specimens. 1 lie upper specimen has been treated first with carbonate of soda and afterwards with nitrate of potash. The cornea has been greatly