18 as the still longer and thicker villi growing from parts of the synovial membrane, and a similar g7wthof^UrDSat^ang a hnC between two ridges of the denuded surface of the patella. In a Unl with the outermost score of the patellar surface of the femur there is seen a little row of tubercles, apparently bony, growing through the cartilage, and m one instance piercing it completely. (Dry in jar) 826. Portion of a diseased liver from dis- secting room. Outwardly this liver seemed quite healthy, the surface glossy and the edges sharp. But a vertical antero- posterior section through the right lobe discloses an masted- looking mass which, when fresh, had a tallow white appearance broken up into lobes. Under the microscope it appears to be composed of hepatic cells which have been necrosed. 827 Left ear of a sheep’s head with three teeth depend - ing' from it, as also a lower lip and a nodule of bone representing an additional lower jaw. From the middle of this bony nodule a fibrous band proceeds, containing in it bony nodules of small size, and ending in a muscle which is at first symmetrical, and then spreads on the outer free margin of the developed lelt jaw of the sheep’s head, partly over the angle and partly in a forward direction. The head, except so far as has been preserved in the preparation, was perfectly normal. On looking into the interior of the pinna the meatus is seen to be continued straight into the deepest part of the concha, which in the normal sheep is blind, and a passage passes straight inwards thence, in front of the stylo-hyoid or great hyal bone, and behind the tympanic bone, interrupted by no membrana tympani, and opens into the left side of the nasal part of the pharynx of the developed sheep by means of the Eustachian orifice. But in front of the tragus, in the position in which in a normal sheep the external meatus passes, there is a true meatus which passes into the tube of the tympanic bone. A red string is passed through the first opening, which is the pharynx of the parasitic jaw. and a blue string (continuous externally with the red) is passed through the true auditory meatus and the tube of the loosened tympanic bone. The tympanic bone has no bulla, the membrana tympani is quite imperfect, and there is no trace of auditory ossicles. Internal to this membrana tympani the blue string finds itself in the same passage as the red string, namely, that leading to the left auditory meatus. But it is to be noticed that there is no tympanic bulla, and in point of fact this external passage and middle ear must be considered as common to the developed sheep and to the parasite. The internal ear has not