26 86o. From still the same specimen of Cyclopia in the Lamb. Shows the greater part of the concrescent frontal ones- The cartilaginous proboscis is cut.into from above, and the greater part of one nasal bone removed. The nasal fossa is seen to form an elongated tube reaching back under the nasal bones, united ventrally in its whole length and ending in front in a single opening The tube is lined with mucous membrane, and along its floor" presents an elongated stiff body, apparently representing a pair of bones of the turbinate series. 861. Double=headed Kitten. The duplicity is confined to parts further forwards than (or proserial to) the occipital and the petromastoid. There are two noses, two palates, and two lower jaws. The left and right halves of the right and left mandibles respectively are only developed anteriorly and are united posteriorly, their junction lying between the two tips of a tongue, which is double in front and single at the root, with a single larynx behind it. Each nose is complete in front, with nasal cartilages, a pair of nostrils and a pair of inter maxi llaries. The superior maxillaries of the right side of the right palate -and the left side of the left palate have the palate plate normally com- plete, their mesial edges lying in the axes of the two palates, at right angles one to the other, while the gap between is bridged across by a strong osseous element, consisting of two maxillaries, a left one to the right side and a right maxillary to the left of the gap, and probably two malars, all, however, combined in one osseous mass, making a floor for the front of a pseudo orbit containing a pseudo-cyclopian eye. I use the words pseudo- orbit and pseudo-cyclopian to denote that neither structure consists of structures of one head, but of the outer sides of two adjacent heads. Thus the pseudo-orbit is bounded on each side by a nose, and the distinctly duplex eye contained in it is a concrescence of the adjacent left eye of the right nose and the right eye of the left nose. The duplex eye looks forwards, and the remaining normal eyes look directly outwards. The brain of this specimen was decomposed and undissectible. (Dry jar) 862. Puppy with additional limbs and tail appended in front—skinned and displayed. From opposite the proserial end of the sternum there springs a concrescent fore limb presenting a thick symmetrical humerus, from the distal extremity of which there are continued two diverging forearms and paws. There is little muscular development and no trace of scapula in connection with this duplex limb. A thin thread passes forwards in connection with it under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the head behind the right ear. Removed from this additional