34 cornu of the hyoid. The arrangement of hyoid elements is seen, the body of the bone is distinct, and two osseous elements pass forwards on each side of it, the small cornua of human anatomy, and, as in hoofed mammals, articulate with an osseous element, ceratohyal, corresponding with our stylohyoid ligament, but loose at the dorsal end like that of a bird. The trachea is projected forwards beyond the hyoid a long way, and from the front of the basihyal or body of the hyoid there projects forwards a muscle answering to the human glossohyal, but which has nothing to do with the tongue. The two main bronchi are seen to be elongated in this species, and each as it enters the luno divides into an anterior and posterior division ; and in the right lung (which has been dried) these divisions continue to exhibit regular linear cartilages. The elongated stomach is continued straight back in line with the deeply pigmented throat, and in the lower part of its extent has two silvery tendinous bands, one in front and one behind, corresponding with the anterior and posterior tendons in crocodiles and birds. At its posterior end it makes a sudden bend to the pylorus. Looking at the back of the preparation, within an inch of the pylorus is seen the pancreas; and, opening along with it, a long hepatic duct w’hich comes from a gall-bladder under the liver but is not displayed. The lie of the heart to the liver is similar to the disposition of parts in birds, the right and left lobes of the liver rising up on each side of it. From the dorsal aspect the con- volutions of the comparatively short small intestines can be followed, while lower down is seen the very short and wide great intestine beginning with a very slight ctecal dilatation which is unfortunately partially hidden by a loop of small intestine hanging down over it. At the lower end of the preparation is the cloaca, with the ureters of the short kidneys opening into it, and also the two oviducts which taper and become slender as they proceed onwards dorsal to the roots of the lungs. Ihe ovaries are small, each attached by a ligament to the inner side of the corresponding kidney. 901. Injected pancreas, duodenum and pylorus of a child some years old. It is seen that in this instance the valvulae conniventes do not make their appearance till close to the termination of the first or horizontal part of the duodenum. The main outlet of the duct of Wirsung opens, as is most usual, along with the common bile-duct, but the depression into which the two ducts open, instead of being shallow, is deep and tubular, about quarter an inch in depth. A feather is inserted into the bile-duct and a bristle into the pancreatic duct. Another duct of the pancreas opens by itself nearly an inch nearer the pylorus,