r5 artery are particularly numerous at the posterior surface, where it is uncovered by peritoneum, between the upper and lower fold of the coronary ligament. 810. Skeleton of Cyclopian Kitten. Left mandible has fallen to the bottom of the jar. This allows the bones of the base of the skull to be better seen. The vomer is largely developed, the maxillae meet in front of it, the palatals lie one on each side of it. 811. Portion of multilocular ovarian cyst, injected with vermilion, showing an accumulation of small cysts in the wall of a large cyst. Removed by Prof. Murdoch Cameron. 812. Two ovaries with diseased Fallopian Tubes. In the upper specimen the left Fallopian tube is seen to be closed at its free extremity, and filled, especially in that part, with pus. In the lower specimen the right Fallopian tube was greatly distended with more fluid pus. 813. (Found undissected in an old stock jar) Hypertrophied prostate and muscular tissue of bladder, bearing evidence of effects of treatment. The prostate bears marks of many false passages, shown in section. I hree abnormal cavities are seen, two of them opening into the prostate, one opening into the bladder A strong transverse ridge lies, as is not uncommon in such cases, above the mouths of the ureters, and above this there are two rows of deep pits, which have much more the appearance of being produced by catheters than by spaces between muscular bundles. 814. (Found undissected in old stock jar) Prostate and portion of bladder and urethra. In the floor of prostatic urethra a mesial opening of considerable size is seen. It leads back into the tissue behind, and presents a deep split leading into it with healed surfaces. The bulbous part of the urethra is healthy but the membranous part is contracted. Probably too lar^e a catheter has been pushed through it, and made prostatic false passage. Nos. 815, 816 and 817 are all from one specimen, exhibiting fxag§erated growths ot adenoid tissue in connection with the intestine—an obvious case of lymphadenoma, otherwise termed eucocytosis, Hodgkin’s disease, and probably accompanied with leucocythnemia. The textures were found 'in a stock jar left when Dr. Allen Thomson resigned the chair. No history can be given of them.