23 (Dry) 849. Sterno-mastoid muscles of Hyasna vulgaris, united in the middle line for a long way in front of the sternum. (Dry) 850. Splenius capitis of Hyaena, right side, forming two perfectly distinct slips, the outer of which, attached tendin- ously to the skull, presents a short belly which lay on the lateral margin of the atlas and is separated behind by a tendon from the rest of the muscular substance of the same band or slip. (Dry) 851. Tendons and ligaments of fore limb of Sheep. (Dry) 852. Tendons and ligaments of hind foot of Sheep. Specially showing the movements of the astragalus, and the crossed arrangement of the fibres of the external and internal ligament of the ankle. The astragalus moves extensively on the calcaneum in flexion and extension. This joint and the ankle move in harmony. The details of the action of the lateral igaments of the ankle on the calcaneum in flexion and extension can be studied on this specimen. 853. Tendons and ligaments of hind limb of Hare root in duplicate. 854. Tendon and ligament of fore limb of Hare. 855 and 856. Specimens from same double monster as 828 and 835. (Moist, open) 855. Skeleton and muscles of above mentioned Double Monster. The calvarium and brain are lost. Normal face formed by conjunction of right and left sides of right and left embryos respectively. Spinal columns distinct wo conjunct sterna, one in front, the other behind, complete a common thoracic cavity. Upper and lower limbs normal 1 he bodies were completely separate below the single umbilicus’ The peculiarities are in the base of the skull. The posterior wUh *e°L'o 7 °f tlK ?.herwise n0rmal sPhenoid articulates with the basilar processes of two complete and normal occipitals each with a normal petromastoid on each side. Thus the left oftrthea|eft'd ofh the ,nsht embryo and the right petromastoid of the left embryo lie side by side, only a narrow interval being left between them in the mesial plain of the douHe monster. In this interval there is an inde ^te-lookin^longated t angle of osseous substance representative of sphenoidal wines and ethmoid structures which should have lain between them belonging to the two embryos respectively; while a concrescent