40 Eustachian tube with a feather passed through it, the qudl tying in the course of the tube to where it is narrow e c ose o entrance into the temporal bone, which has een remove Along nearly its whole course the cartilage of the tube shows free borders, beyond which the mucous membrane is expanded into a huge pouch. The membranous walls of these pouches lie back to back, in contact one with the other, behind the pharynx. That of the right side has been cut short, while the left pouch has been preserved and laid open in its whole length, as it lay between the pharynx and vertebral column. Probably the pouches are of use in preserving pressure on the inside of the membrana tympani when the animal is running, acting thus like the peculiar varieties of apparatus adapting certain osseous fishes to the varying pressure of the sea at different depths. They are well known to veterinary surgeons. 922. Lower limbs and abdominal viscera of a Child born at full-time with sacral spina bifida, ectopia viscerum et vesicas, and absence of anus and genitalia. The head and thoracic viscera were normal. The skeleton of the thorax and pelvis are separately preserved (prep. 923). The spina bifida forms a large sac depending over the buttocks and laid open. At its pedicle it has burst on the surface, and it was seen on dissection to be a syringocele; the substance of the spinal cord dwindling away, while the pia mater became hypervascular, as may be seen in the preparation. A portion of the higher part of the spinal cord has been left hanging down over the cut integu- ments to show that there the development has been normal. The ectopia viscerum was completely covered by a thin mem- branous wall, the lower part of which is preserved above the ectopia vesicas. The liver and small intestines protruded in the form of a tumour covered in by this membrane. I he kidneys, stomach and spleen have been kept as much as possible in situ. Between the thighs the skin was uninterrupted by any trace of orifice, and has been sewn together in its original position, while at the sides, about ii inches separate one from the other, are two pendulous cutaneous processes which may be considered as hall- scrota, since the germ-preparing gland was observed on the left side to be in the groin in a vertical position and to have the rotundity of a testicle. The front of the lower part of the abdomen is continuous, at the circumference, with the integument of the perinasum and thighs and with the thin membranous wall which covered the protruding viscera. In the middle line of this mucous membrane there is an elongated body standing out, which is the corpora cavernosa of the penis, surmounted apparently by a glans. On each side