8 j t ,up lower end of the cord, and the wall of the sac is eXPlh nnd thickened round the orifice leading into it. At the upper end of the specimen the floor of the fourth ventricle is seen to be enlarged, while the corpora quadrigemina appear to be normal. See also 785 and 786. (Dry) 774. Horse = shoe kidney, dried >« situ. 1 he two lateral parts have a pair of renal arteries coming off in the norma position, the right one dividing after a course of f-inch, the left dividing immediately. In addition a mesial artery comes off at the bifurcation of the aorta opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra and divides into a right and left branch to the lower ends of the almost completely separated right and left kidney Query, Has this been the cause of the union of the two kidneys? (Dry) 775. Bones of left fore-foot of Pig, with five meta- carpal bones and six toes. The third, fourth and fifth digits aie normal, but the os magnum does not come so far underneath the scaphoid as is normal, and instead of having only one other carpal bone to its radial side it has two, the one next it being little less broad than itself, while that which is beyond is little more developed than the normal single bone, and supports a metatarsal bone and three digits all of similar development to the normal radial smaller toe (corresponding to the index ol the human subject). The digit supported by the carpal bone between this and the os magnum is but slightly smaller than the two normal well developed toes to its ulnar side, and at its distal extremity bears two digits, the ulnar digit considerably smaller than the radial, and both consisting of three phalanges. 776. Vitreous humour, lens and transparent mem branes of Ox eye. ■777. Rectum everted, from the same female subject as 757. The bones of this subject were preserved, and when macerated and dried presented characters of an old person— perhaps 70 years—unusually healthy and unaltered in form, save the feet, which had been cramped apparently by tight boots. Specimen shows at the lower part the columns ol Morgagni and the recesses between them, as also the line of contact of the intruded continuation of the epidermis and the true mucous membrane above the grasp of the deep sphincter. Above this the dilatation below and behind the pouch of Douglas with its greater convexity directed backwards. This is separated from the loose part above (the part which has a mesorectum) by a distinct valve of Houston traceable almost all round. 1 be solitary glands are exceedingly numerous, especially on the great dilatation.