46 The left lung has three lobes distinct like those,ctJhe right human lung. has three iuucs . The right has four lobes, the three found in man on The tubes of the three left lobes start close togethe the end of the left bronchus, which is longer than the right bronchus. on Intestine of black-tailed Ichneumon, from end of duodenum (934) to lower end of rectum. Colon and rectum together short and straight. Caput c*cum coh and cmcum short and without any vermiform appendage. 1 he duodenal end of the small intestine, hanging over the end of the ileum, is ol muc smaller calibre than the ileum. 042. Tongue of young Elephant, with lower lip attached. The two ducts of Wharton open about an inch and a halt asunder, each on a papillary projection. 1 he whole surface of the tongue, when closely looked into, is seen to be covered with closely set small filiform papillae, and among them are loosely scattered fungiform papillae, most numerous on the sides and increasing in size from the tip of the tongue backwards. Below these on each side there is a considerable patch of larger smooth elevations, dying further down into scattered fungiform papillae like those above. And about the middle of the total length of the tongue, where it has been highest in the mouth the filiform papillae "cease, while further back, in contact with the jar, there is an elongated streak, rough looking, which, looked at with a lens, exhibits a network of furrows, the elevations between which are margined with small papillae in a remarkable manner. (Dry in jar) 943. Liver marked by folds of the diaphragm pressed into it by tight lacing. 944. Brain and cord with surrounding integument from a foetus with open spina bifida and anencephalus. The integu- ment converted into a transparent membrane is torn open and seen on the surface of the dura mater, which forms a single sheet continuous at its edges with the normal part of the skin. I he arachnoid of the cord is a complete sac distended in front of the anterior roots of the nerves, and presents in the middle line a white string on its superficial aspect in its whole length. . On each side of this, when the specimen is held up against the light, there is seen to be a thin band deeper than the arachnoid, pro-