IO but the stomach and spleen are thrown to the left over the liver after removal of the lesser sac of the peritoneum. hat looks like a pylorus is held forwards by a plate of glass and is seen to be separated by a short impervious band from the commencement of the intestine; and on further examination the common bile duct is seen entering at a point higher up. Therefore the impervious constricted band, being below the entrance of the gall-bladder, is really not higher than the lower part of the duo- denum, while the apparent pylorus is duodenal in nature. Almost immediately below the impervious constriction the intestine is crossed by the umbilical vein, which falls into the left vena portae, but has in continuity with its direction an elongated narrow ductus venosus in close connection with a much wider hepatic vein, and this joins with it to form the inferior vena cava. The latter has had no branches from either kidneys or lower limbs, but chiefly receives blood from the liver and from the placenta, and extends nearly inches from liver to heart, no doubt in consequence of the displacement of the liver. At the position of the umbilicus the umbilical vein is united by a ring of white thread to the single hypogastric artery, which together with it formed the umbilical cord, the left hypogastric artery being absent, and the aorta receiving on the left side no blood save from the lower limb and pelvis. The right kidney and adrenal are preserved in the relation which they occupied to the liver, and below them is seen a very large spigelian lobe which projected down a long way, as it does in many mammals. The left kidney and adrenal are placed in their natural relation to those of the right side, and between them there is laid open a large dilated structure which occupied the pelvis. No orifice either of genito-urinary or rectal character was detected on the integument. The dilated hollow structure or sac receives, as is seen, the intestine, which is partially un- ravelled and is probably eight inches long. Just where the intestine opens into the sac a change occurs suddenly in the mucous membrane and a small vermiform appendage is seen less than half an inch long. Into this the pen of a small feather has been thrust, cut square at the end. This shows us that the colon is represented entirely in the dilated sac. Another feather is made to project from a blind sac, which is more than half an inch in length and represents the allantoic part of the urinary bladder. The feather is distinguished by having a white line at the tip. Lower down than this and arranged to the right is a part which has projecting into it a prominence perforated at the tip, and through this an echidna spine has been placed which passes right through to where the sac has been detached from the perineum, thus exhibiting a natural tube, the urethra. Above