32 kidney. The lower two come oft "Xf up! breach common iliac, the other a . . th°e other immediately the kidney, one at the lower ex f d 5oth Gf these below the the spernratic arteries pass m, their course, beh^ ^ ^ prepare(J by Dr G My.’ Gray, and described by him in the Anatom,scha- Anzeiger, 1906. 800 Hydrocephalic Child at birth with cystic tumour at back of neck, which contained a sac of arachnoid,. pre- ludedthrough an opening below the external occipital protuberance. (See 891 and 892.) (Dry) 801. Dried skull of specimen 890, showing hydro- cephalic expansion of roof, complete separation of the right from the left half of the bone, behind the foramen magnum and a perforation about § inch long and J inch broad, by which the arachnoid had protruded. The occipital is surmounted by a group of ossa triquetra in the neighbourhood of the middle line. 802. Brain from specimen 890 and 891. Brain distended with dropsy, which had escaped into the fourth ventricle and protruded the arachnoid behind that ventricle in the form of a sac, which bulged out through an opening in the occipital bone, and formed a tumour on the back of the neck, (bee 890 and 891.) The hemispheres show great alteration of the distribution of convolutions and sulci, partly explicable by trunks of vessels having resisted expansion. The fore parts of the hennsp ter , especially the right, have given way and been destroyed. Note also on the base considerable thickening in front ol the op 1 commissure. 893. Brain of Porpoise, imperfectly dissected. Above are hung the roof parts of the hemispheres, cut off together, along with a few fibres of the corpus callosum. Below is hung the rest of the brain, showing the ventricular surface of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus and the anterior lobes ot the corpora quadrigemina, as also the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The posterior elevations of the corpora quadrigemina have come separate and slipped down. The posterior border of the corpus callosum is left uniting the two hemispheres, and a mesial portion of the cerebellum has been removed to bring into view the broad floor of the fourth ventricle. Looking at the other side of the jar one sees the great development of the medulla oblongata, and the extraordinary flocculus.