33 8q4* Lengthening and consequent bending of the in- ternal carotid arteries resulting from violent action of the heart. (Dr. G. M. Gray.) 895. Eye of Ox. Equatorial cut made through the choroid and retina. Shows the edge of the developed part of the retina (ora serrata of human subject), at the outer edge of the ciliary processes. 896. Eye of Ox. The crystalline lens is hung by a thread; the transparent structures with the retina in position on the hyaloid membrane have fallen to the bottom of the jar by the anterior wall of the capsule of the lens having given way. 897. Human eye. Above is the back part of the sclerotic with the membrana fusca removed and with the retina suspended by its attachment at the optic pore. Within the retina the vitreous humour is left, while beyond the ora serrata the pig- mented epithelium of the zonule of Zinn is seen, and the lens within its capsule. Hanging low'er down, the foreparts of the outer and middle coats of the eye are seen, showing the ring of projecting ciliary processes; outside it the white circle corre- sponding with the situation of the zonule of Zinn ; and encircled by it the back of the iris with the pigmented epithelium partly covering it and partly removed. 898. Multiple myomata (fibroma) of uterus. (Dr. Samuel Cameron.) The uterus is cut open in its whole length. Its inner surface recognisable by its comparative smoothness, from the torn muscular tissue. 899. Curious unicornute uterus of Sheep. Uterus con- sists of a cervix which was very tightly closed, and has been slit open in its whole length, and of a right cornu, which was distended with clear fluid. The right ovary and Fallopian tube are seen normal. It was impossible to tell from the way in which the specimen had been removed from the body whether the left ovary had been normal or not. The pigment has dis- appeared from some of the cotyledons, as in pregnancy. A portion of the bladder is retained, with bristles in the ureters. 900. Viscera of Lacerta ocellata. On the dorsal aspect of the preparation, the long bifid tongue (somewhat dried) is seen projecting from its pouch of origin nearly half an inch in front of the glottis; and on the ventral aspect of the preparation are seen the two retractor muscles of the tongue, the right one divided and the left one intact, attached behind to the great or posterior c