36 three lobes corresponding exactly with the three main lobes of the right lung, but there is a slight neck common to the bronchi for the two upper lobes, while the corresponding bronchi of the right lung have no neck in common. The bronchus for the fourth lobe of the right lung is seen coming off from the front of the main bronchus beyond the origins of the bronchi for the two upper lobes. (Dried) 906. Labial glands and coronary arteries, human. 907. Skeleton of double monstrosity of Pig. The body has two sterna, each belonging one half to each embryo, and receiving costal cartilages from each, so as to unite the two thoraxes into one common thorax with two vertebral columns and two complete sets of ribs. The bodies below the umbilicus are distinct, and all the limbs are normal, as also are the cervical vertebras. But the heads are conjoint, forming a janiceps. One face compounded from the two embryos looks forwards between them, and is complete with the exception that the maxillaries, intermaxillaries and nasals on each side are run into one bone not sufficiently projected forwards. The other face, looking backwards, is devoid of lower jaw, and has one mesial composite nasal, while the maxillaries are badly developed and turned downwards, forming with the nasal cartilages a tubular snout. The parietals of the anterior skull are well developed. 1 hose of the posterior skull are short, with the squamous bones enlarged and supplementing the parietals at the sides. The two foramina magna were (when fresh) normal below, and seen to have each a composite basilar and two normal lateral occipitals bounding them. The anterior skull has the tympanic rings normal, while the posterior skull had none. Other details have become unre- cognisable in the process of drying. This specimen has peculiar interest when compared with the human specimen 260, in which the two skulls are somewhat similarly united, but only one body has been developed, and in which an occipital bone is preserved at each end of the double skull, each original head having belonged to a distinct embryo. (Dry on card) 908. Skeleton of thorax of infant 2 days old. Prepared by Dr. G. H. Edington, and described and figured by him in Jour. Anat. and Phys. in memoir entitled “ Multiple Malformations (genito-urinary and skeletal) occurring on one side of the body in a case of Atresia Ani.” A plate illustrating the memoir is attached to the specimen, viz. Plate Till., July 1904.